-- New Zealand Current-Account Deficit Widens as Commodity Export Prices Fall
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2011-12-20T21:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/new-zealand-s-current-account-deficit-widens-to-4-3-of-gdp-1-.html
New Zealand ’s current-account
deficit widened as a share of the economy more than expected by
economists as prices of commodity exports fell. Spending by
foreign fans at the Rugby  World Cup  cushioned the decline.  The shortfall was 4.3 percent of gross domestic product in
the year ended Sept. 30, from 3.7 percent in the 12 months
through June,  Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington today.
Economists predicted a 3.9 percent gap, according to the median
of 11 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.  New Zealand’s deficit, which includes goods, investment
income and services such as tourism, may widen further amid
mounting concern a slowdown in global economic growth will curb
exports and international travel.  Standard & Poor’s  cited the
deteriorating outlook for the current account when it cut the
nation’s credit rating one level to AA in September.  “The external accounts should be less negative than they
are considering the near-record highs in the terms of trade and
relatively subdued imports,”  Craig Ebert , senior economist at
Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, said in a research note
ahead of the report. “As these things reverse, the deficit will
start expanding again.”  New Zealand’s currency was little changed after the
release, buying 76.80 U.S. cents as of 10:51 a.m. in Wellington,
from 76.85 cents immediately before the data.  Annual Shortfall  The annual current-account shortfall widened to NZ$8.68
billion ($6.7 billion) from a revised NZ$7.4 billion in the year
through June, today’s report showed.  The third-quarter deficit widened to NZ$4.6 billion from a
revised NZ$844 million in the April-June period. Economists
predicted the quarterly shortfall would be NZ$3.75 billion.  The current-account gap has shrunk from as much as 8.9
percent of GDP in the year through December 2008 as exports rose
and the domestic economy fell into recession, curbing the
earnings of foreign-owned companies. Record-low  interest rates 
reduced the amount of interest being paid to overseas lenders.  Economists expect the deficit will widen as interest rates
rise, earnings of foreign-owned companies increase and spending
on imported materials to rebuild earthquake-devastated
Christchurch accelerates.  Ebert forecasts a 7.2 percent deficit by the end of 2013
while S&P in September projected a 6.8 percent gap by 2014.  In the third quarter, there was a trade deficit of NZ$752
million, reflecting lower prices for meat, dairy and lumber
exports, the statistics agency said.  Investment Income  In the quarter, the deficit on income, a measure of
international investment income and compensation for employees,
which makes up most of the current-account balance, widened to
NZ$2.83 billion. Profits earned by foreign-owned companies,
particularly banks and insurers, increased, the agency said.  The deficit on services widened to NZ$949 million as New
Zealanders took seasonal overseas vacations. The number of
travelers was less than in other years, the agency said.
Spending by foreign fans attending the  Rugby World Cup , which
began Sept. 9, reduced the deficit.  The annual  trade surplus  narrowed for the first time in
more than two years, to NZ$3.05 billion, the report showed. The
annual deficit on income widened to NZ$10.31 billion and the
shortfall on services broadened to NZ$1.08 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  