-- New Zealand Economy May Track Rebound in Nation’s Rugby World Cup Fortunes
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 2011-12-20T23:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/new-zealand-economy-likely-rebounded-on-rugby-world-cup-spending.html
New Zealand ’s economic growth likely
accelerated in the third quarter as the nation hosted the Rugby
 World Cup , helping bolster a recovery restrained by earthquake
rebuilding delays and weaker exports.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.6 percent in the three months
through September from the prior quarter, according to the
median of 14 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  before a
government report tomorrow at 10:45 a.m. in Wellington. The
economy grew 0.1 percent in the second quarter.  About 133,000 rugby fans visited New Zealand from July to
October, stoking spending on everything from transportation to
hotels to souvenirs. Investors are betting  Reserve Bank  Governor
Alan Bollard will see the influx as a temporary lift and hold
the official cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent until late
next year on signs of weaker  consumer confidence .  “The Reserve Bank will be more focused on the pace of
underlying growth,”  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB Bank
Ltd. in Auckland, said in a research note. “We still see a
gradual underlying recovery in place. The looming risk to the
outlook is the euro-zone situation.”  New Zealand’s currency has fallen 7.9 percent in the past
three months against the  U.S. dollar , making it the biggest
decliner among the Group of 10 currencies. In the three months
through Sept. 30, it fell 8.2 percent, the steepest quarterly
drop since the fourth quarter of 2008. The currency today traded
at 76.74 U.S. cents at 12 p.m. in Wellington, little changed
from yesterday in  New York .  Annual Growth  Tomorrow’s report may also show GDP expanded by 2.2 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, compared with a 1.5
percent annual rise in the second quarter.  Bollard on Dec. 8 forecast third-quarter growth of 0.6
percent, down from 0.8 percent in his September projections. He
signaled he would leave the benchmark rate unchanged until the
middle of the year, saying domestic activity was “modest” and
there is a risk global economic conditions deteriorate.  Eleven of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect
Bollard will keep borrowing costs unchanged until at least
September. None expect an increase before June. There is a 22
percent chance of a quarter-point rate cut next month, according
to a Credit Suisse AG index based on swaps trading.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
last month cut forecasts for global economic growth in 2012 amid
concern that the European debt crisis may damp global demand.
 Australia  last week lowered its forecast for agricultural-export
earnings, also citing  Europe .  Current Account  A government report earlier today showed New Zealand’s
current-account deficit in the year ended Sept. 30 was 4.3
percent of GDP, more than the 3.9 percent median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. The gap in the third quarter was
NZ$4.6 billion ($3.5 billion), compared with a revised NZ$844
million shortfall in the three months through June.  New Zealand’s commodity export prices fell for a sixth
month in November, the longest stretch of declines since the
economy contracted in 2008 and early 2009, according to an ANZ
National Bank Ltd. index.  Exports make up 30 percent of the New Zealand economy, with
commodities such as milk powder, meat and lumber accounting for
about two-thirds of all sales. In the third quarter, exports
fell 0.7 percent, according to a release on Dec. 1.  In the third quarter, retail sales increased 2.2 percent,
the most in more than four years, boosted by spending at
accommodation outlets and on food and beverage services,
according to a Nov. 14 report.  Clothing Sales  Warehouse Group (WHS)  Ltd., the nation’s biggest discount
retailer, said Nov. 11 that  Rugby World Cup  clothing and other
merchandise contributed to a 2.2 percent rise in sales in the
three months through Oct. 30.  Sky City Entertainment Group Ltd. (SKC) , New Zealand’s largest
casino operator, last month said the sporting event boosted
sales at its hotels, bars and restaurants while the gains at its
gaming machines and tables was less than expected as regular
customers stayed away.  Weighing on growth, construction fell to the lowest level
in more than 10 years in the third quarter, according to a Dec.
5 report. Residential building was unchanged and non-residential
work dropped 4.6 percent, the report showed.  Rebuilding is expected to be revived next year in the South
Island city of Christchurch and in some surrounding towns in the
Canterbury province after earthquakes the past 15 months wrecked
homes, roads and commercial buildings.  Rebuilding Effort  The  Earthquake Commission , a government-owned insurer,
yesterday said it will accelerate repairs on homes with less
than NZ$100,000 in damage next year. It expects to have 80
percent of properties mended by the end of 2014, according to a
statement on its website.  Bollard this month said weak business confidence and
investment add to the case for a slower recovery.  Business confidence sank for the fourth time in five months
in December, ANZ National Bank said in a Dec. 19 report. An
index of household sentiment fell to 101.3 this quarter from 112
in the three months through September, Westpac Banking Corp. and
McDermott Miller Ltd. said in an e-mailed report the same day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  