-- JPMorgan Must Face Assured Guaranty Unit Suit, New York Appeals Court Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2011-12-20T19:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/new-york-appeals-court-upholds-assured-guaranty-ruling-against-jpmorgan.html
A  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  asset-
management business must face a lawsuit by a unit of  Assured
Guaranty  Ltd., New York state’s highest court ruled, upholding
an appeals court’s ruling allowing the suit to proceed.  J.P. Morgan Investment Management was sued in 2008 and
accused of mismanaging the investment portfolio of a special
purpose entity named Orkney Re II Plc whose obligations were
guaranteed by Assured Guaranty.  The  Court of Appeals  in  Albany  today upheld a ruling by an
appellate court in Manhattan that common-law causes of action
for breach of fiduciary duty and gross negligence brought by
Assured Guaranty were not preempted by state securities laws. A
lower court had dismissed the complaint at the request of the
defendants.  “The purpose of the Martin Act is not impaired by private
common-law actions that have a legal basis independent of the
statute because proceedings by the attorney general and private
actions further the same goal -- combating fraud and deception
in securities transactions,” Judge Victoria Graffeo wrote in
the ruling.  JPMorgan will continue to defend itself against the claims
in the suit,  Doug Morris , a spokesman for the New York-based
bank, said in an e-mail.  “We believe that we acted appropriately at all times with
respect to the management of the client’s accounts,” Morris
said. “This is a decision related to the adequacy of the
pleadings and not to the merits of the claims.”  The case is  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  v J.P. Morgan Investment
Management Inc., 603755/2008, New York state Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 