-- News Corp., Paul Gascoigne Close to Settling Phone-Hacking Lawsuit in U.K.
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2011-12-20T17:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/news-corp-paul-gascoigne-close-to-settling-phone-hacking-lawsuit-in-u-k-.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British publishing unit
said it resolved seven civil lawsuits over the interception of
celebrities’ voice-mail messages to get scoops for the now-
defunct News of the World tabloid.  The company, which has been sued at least 60 times, agreed
to pay “appropriate sums” to compensate ex-lawmaker Mark
Oaten, TV presenter Ulrika Jonsson and Calum Best, the son of a
soccer star who appeared on reality-TV shows, the company said
today in an e-mailed statement. Abi Titmuss, Michelle Milburn,
Paul Dadge and James Hewitt also settled, it said.  News International, based in London, has “expressed regret
for the distress caused,” spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  said in the
statement.  The settlements come as New York-based News Corp. tries to
contain the scandal that engulfed its U.K. publishing arm over
the conduct of journalists and investigators at the News of the
World, which was shut in July. Three police probes linked to the
newspaper have resulted in about 20 arrests, including that of
former editor Rebekah Brooks, who resigned as chief executive
officer of the News Corp. unit.  The tabloid publisher is also close to settling a lawsuit
by former England soccer player  Paul Gascoigne , his lawyer told
a judge at a court hearing today. Gascoigne’s lawsuit is among
about six so-called test cases scheduled for a three-week trial
starting Feb. 13, to set a standard amount of financial damages
for celebrities, politicians, crime victims and hundreds of
other potential phone-hacking targets that may sue.  Deleted E-Mails  Hugh Tomlinson , a lawyer for some phone-hacking victims,
said at the hearing that News International was being too slow
in turning over evidence, including an unknown number of deleted
company e-mails that are being reconstructed. The communications
may show who knew about the hacking and how high up the chain of
command it went, he said.  News International will also find out tomorrow in two
related court judgments whether it must pay the legal fees of
former editor  Andy Coulson  and ex-private detective  Glenn
Mulcaire , who have both been arrested in the police probes. They
both claim the company should pay court costs.  Gascoigne has also accused another of News Corp.’s British
tabloids, the Sun, of paying two people to spy on him while he
was at a clinic receiving treatment for alcohol addiction. He
sued in June for breach of privacy and libel over Sun articles
published in July 2010.  News International already settled some phone-hacking
lawsuits, including a deal to pay 100,000 pounds ($156,700) to
actress  Sienna Miller  and another 20,000 pounds to sports
commentator Andy Gray. The biggest payment of 3 million pounds
went to the family of murdered school girl Milly Dowler, whose
phone was hacked by the News of the World in 2002, while she was
still missing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  