-- NFL May Increase Slate of Live Games on TV Network as Soon as Next Season
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2011-12-20T15:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/nfl-may-increase-slate-of-live-games-on-tv-network-as-soon-as-next-season.html
The  National Football League ’s
television network may increase its slate of eight live games as
soon as next season, according to Brian Rolapp, chief operating
officer for NFL media.  Rolapp said the number of additional games hasn’t yet been
decided by the U.S.’s most popular television sport, which last
week extended by a record nine years its broadcast rights
agreements with CBS Corp., News Corp.’s Fox and Comcast Corp.’s
NBC.  “Doing these contracts essentially opened up a way to
create more games for the  NFL Network , and I think it’s very
likely you’ll see those next year,” Rolapp said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “How many games is still in question, but
I think we’re committed to putting more games on the network and
improving the service.”  The NFL Network opened the season with its widest
distribution since it started airing live games in 2006. It has
attracted a record average of 6.4 million viewers to its first
seven games this season, an increase of 19 percent over last
year, going into this week’s finale between the Houston Texans
and Indianapolis Colts, according to the NFL.  The network offers some of television’s most valuable
content, as measured by the fees cable or satellite companies
pay for distribution rights, according to a 2011 report by
 Anthony DiClemente , an analyst with  Barclays Capital Inc.  The
network gets about 73 cents a subscriber, making it the fourth-
most expensive in the U.S., ahead of  Fox News ’s 70 cents and
behind the Disney Channel’s 91 cents. ESPN gets the most, with
$4.40, and TNT the second-most at $1.03, DiClemente wrote,
citing data from Barclays and SNL Kagan.  Half of Homes  After years of feuding with multichannel operators over
pricing, the network is now in about 60 million homes, about
half of U.S. homes with televisions, according to Nielsen
Holdings NV, and is carried by seven of the eight largest
television providers. The league and Time Warner Cable Inc., the
second-largest U.S. cable provider, still haven’t reached a
deal, according to NFL spokesman Dan Masonson.  Before the first Thursday night game telecast in November,
between the  Oakland Raiders  and  San Diego Chargers , the NFL
Network had sold about 90 percent of its advertising space, at
rates “comparable” to those charged by the league’s broadcast
partners, according to David Pattillo, the NFL’s vice president
for media sales.  The NFL last week renewed contracts with CBS, NBC and Fox
in a deal that will generate about 60 percent more revenue, with
rights fees for the three networks increasing about 6 percent or
7 percent a year, three people with knowledge of the talks said
when the deals were reached. They were granted anonymity because
they weren’t authorized to disclose the terms.  Monday Night Football  ESPN said Sept. 8 it extended its agreement with the NFL
for eight years, giving the Disney unit “Monday Night
Football” through the 2021 season. The deal was valued at $1.9
billion a year, or about 73 percent more than the Bristol,
Connecticut-based network has been paying, the  New York  Times
reported.  Additional NFL Network games will come from the Sunday
schedule, after the league was able to give broadcasters
additional digital rights and other perks to help increase the
value of their packages, Rolapp said. NFL Network games air on
local television in the teams’ home markets.  “It’s something we probably could have done earlier but it
was very important for us to make sure that the quality of all
of our packages improved,” Rolapp said. “Consumption continues
to rise and all of our partners continue to have better returns
economically and the fans are enjoying more and more football
than ever before. At the end of the day, that’s what we strive
for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 