-- Nike Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates on North American Sales; Shares Climb
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2011-12-21T00:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/nike-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-on-north-american-sales-shares-climb.html
Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest
sporting-goods company, reported second-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as sales of running shoes surged in
North America.  Net income in the quarter ended Nov. 30 rose 2.6 percent to
$469 million, or $1 a share, from $457 million, or 94 cents, a
year earlier, Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike said today in a
statement. Analysts projected 97 cents a share, the average of
18 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Nike’s profit has surpassed
analysts’ projections in 21 of the past 22 quarters.  Nike has been trying to maintain profit growth amid higher
raw-material and labor costs by increasing sales and raising
prices. Total revenue rose 18 percent to $5.73 billion in the
quarter. Nike-brand orders for December to April, excluding
currency changes, advanced 13 percent, surpassing analysts’
average projection for a 12.7 percent gain.  “The bottom line is it’s a decent quarter,” with sales in
 North America  and  China  exceeding expectations, said Chris Svezia, an analyst for Susquehanna Financial Group in  New York .
Nike repurchased more shares than expected and that may have
helped them beat analyst projections, according to Svezia, who
has a “neutral” rating on Nike shares.  Nike rose 2.9 percent to $96.30 at 6:59 p.m. in New York.
The shares had gained 9.6 percent this year through the end of
today’s regular trading.  Sales in North America, Nike’s largest market, rose 21
percent to $2.07 billion, led by sales of running shoes. Revenue
from China increased 28 percent to $650 million. Revenue grew in
every region except  Japan .  Running Boom  “We haven’t seen this much running since the boom in the
1970s,” Charles Denson, president of the Nike brand, said on a
conference call with analysts.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after the
cost of goods sold, narrowed for a third straight quarter,
declining by 2.6 percentage points to 42.7 percent.  That trailed the company’s forecast for a drop of 2
percentage points as it discounted more than expected, Chief
Financial Officer Donald Blair said on the call. Gross margin
will narrow 1.5 percentage points in the third quarter.  Margin Pressure  “There’s a lot of companies that are facing the same
problem, it’s industrywide,” said  Matt Arnold , an analyst
Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri . That would be more of
a concern if Nike weren’t growing sales and hadn’t scheduled
more price increases for early next year, said Arnold, who
recommends buying Nike shares.  The results follow those of customers such as Dick’s
Sporting Goods Inc. and  Foot Locker Inc. (FL) , which increased sales
in the quarter ended Oct. 29. Revenue rose 9.3 percent at
Dick’s, the largest U.S. publicly-traded sporting goods
retailer, and 8.9 percent at Foot Locker, the world’s largest
athletic-footwear chain.  Sales for fiscal 2012 will increase more than forecast,
rising by a mid-teen percentage, Blair said. In September, Nike
predicted sales growth from low double digits to mid teens. The
shoemaker will begin selling National Football League-branded
apparel in April, taking over a license previously held by
 Adidas AG. (ADS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  