-- Nordic Shipping Banks Beat UniCredit Amid Container Overcapacity: Freight
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2011-12-21T12:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/nordic-shipping-banks-beat-unicredit-amid-overcapacity-freight.html
DNB ASA  and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the
largest providers of ship financing, may benefit as competitors
face capital shortages from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  DNB and Nordea are better positioned to lend money because
smaller shipping banks are more vulnerable to slumping freight
rates and overcapacity. The two Nordic banks also need to raise
less capital because of new banking rules than larger rivals do.  “All of them apart from DNB and Nordea will probably scale
back their shipping businesses, because the first thing a bank
does to improve its capital ratio is to exit loan agreements to
cut their balance sheets,” said Matti Ahokas, an analyst at
Svenska Handelsbanken AB in Helsinki, in a phone interview.  UniCredit SpA , whose German unit is one of the country’s
biggest shipping lenders, and  Commerzbank AG , which owns
Deutsche Schiffsbank AG, each need to raise more than 5 billion
euros ($6.5 billion) to meet tighter rules imposed by the
European Banking Authority.  DNB needs to boost its cash buffer by 1.5 billion euros
while Nordea, the Nordic region’s largest bank, doesn’t have to
raise any new cash, according to stress-test results released
Dec. 9.  Nordea, based in Stockholm, has lost 28 percent in trading
this year and Oslo-based DNB has  declined  30 percent. Milan-
based UniCredit, which needs to raise 8 billion euros by mid-
2012, has dropped a steeper 52 percent. Commerzbank in  Frankfurt 
has slumped 70 percent on concern its 5.3 billion-euro capital
shortage will push it toward a second bailout.  ‘Gaining Position’  “We are benefiting as we’re the No. 1 shipping bank in the
world,” Nordea Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  said
in an interview on Dec. 9. “While the amount we have on our
balance sheet is not going to increase, we are gaining
position.”  Europe’s debt crunch is threatening growth in the container
industry while the introduction of new ships means shipping
lines may face half a decade of oversupply. That has sent
freight rates plunging 70 percent since a 2010 peak, in turn
putting pressure on the profitability of shipping companies.  In  Germany , home to the world’s third-largest container
fleet, small and mid-sized shipping companies along the North
Sea coast face potential insolvency as banks demand more
collateral for critical loans and they struggle to pay principal
and interest on credit, Max Johns, spokesman for Germany’s  VDR
shipping association , said in an interview.  Bankruptcy, Insolvency  So far, Germany’s Beluga shipping line has filed for
bankruptcy while Sietas KG, Germany’s oldest shipyard, has filed
for insolvency because it can’t pay debt and salaries.  “This is the worst crisis since World War II,” Johns
said. “A lot of the charter owners cannot pay  interest rates  to
the banks because of unusually low charter rates.”  DNB focuses on the largest shipping companies, which
shields it more from market fluctuations, according to Leif Teksum, group executive vice president and head of the Large
Corporates and International unit, Harald Serck-Hanssen, head of
shipping, offshore and logistics, and Trygve Young, chief risk
officer. They spoke on a Dec. 16 conference call.  “It is remarkable to see how small the losses have been,”
Young said. DNB, which has financed the shipping industry for
about 150 years, may have some “challenging cases” in the next
two years, Serck-Hanssen said.  Loan Agreements  Of 250 DNB clients, 50 were in breach of loan agreements
over the last three years, Serck-Hanssen said. Of those 50, 15
were restructured and in three cases DNB had to take over
assets. Loan losses are likely to rise from third-quarter levels
because of the shipping crisis, he added.  “As one of the leading global lenders to shipping, DNB
will invariably be affected by the cyclicality in the sector,
although its long-standing relationship with most of its
customers and experience in the sector is likely to mitigate
this,”  Fitch Ratings  said on Dec. 16 when it affirmed DNB’s
long-term issuer default rating at A+.  “DNB in  Norway  has its main exposure and revenue stream
from a strong domestic economy that is doing far better than
economies in other European countries,” Bengt Kirkoen, an
analyst at First Securities ASA in Oslo, said in a phone
interview.  Nordea, which navigated the 2008 financial crisis without a
state bailout, hasn’t reported a quarterly loss since the fourth
quarter of 1998. Its focus on retail banking in  Sweden ,  Finland ,
Norway and  Denmark  made it less vulnerable to loan losses than
most European peers, Ahokas said.  Low Funding Costs  “DNB and Nordea have some of the lowest funding costs in
 Europe , and their wholesale funding costs are a great
competitive advantage,” he said. “A lot of banks would
probably want to be more active in shipping finance, because of
the high margins, but they cannot because of the funding
situation.”  Price competition in the industry means that many companies
with smaller fleets of 15 vessels or less can’t compete with
their larger rivals and are operating at a loss.  “We’re not happy with the market at the moment, as it has
turned negative since the summer,” said Oliver Faak, managing
director for Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale’s German
shipping unit. The lending environment has also “become much
tougher and much more demanding” as banks have to demand
tougher terms for loans, he said.  Still, the Hanover, Germany-based bank, known as NordLB,
expects its shipping portfolio to “moderately” grow in size in
2012. NordLB is about to hire another 15 people for its ship-
finance business in coming months in part to help clients who
are in financial trouble restructure their businesses, he said.  Banking Hires  Other banks also aim to gain from the turbulence in the
industry. Hamburg-based  HSH Nordbank AG  is likely to benefit
from lenders retreating from ship financing, Financial Times
Deutschland reported Nov. 21, citing management board member
Torsten Temp. The lender, one of the world’s biggest shipping
financers, on Dec. 16 said it hired Ingmar Loges from UniCredit
as the new head of its new Shipping Clients International unit.  UniCredit’s German shipping unit, which in January forecast
its shipping portfolio would grow as much as 10 percent this
year, expects it will be reduced in 2012, said Holger Janssen,
head of global shipping at UniCredit Bank AG in Hamburg.  “Shipping companies are favoring their own tonnage, which
is why tonnage providers and hence the time charter rates may
become the victims of overcapacity,” he said. “It is not
surprising that in the current shipping market climate bank
lending will continue to tighten.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  