-- North Korea Danger Binds Adversaries in Search for Calm in Power Transfer
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2011-12-20T07:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/north-korea-transition-binds-adversaries.html
The death of  North Korea ’s Kim Jong Il, one of the world’s most repressive leaders, has produced a
new moment of danger that binds the interests of both allies and
adversaries of the nuclear-armed country.  The threat is that Kim’s untested son, so-called Great
Successor Kim Jong Un, might attempt to prove his mettle with a
provocative act. After two military attacks by the North in 2010
in which 50 South Koreans were killed, another provocation might
risk a disproportionate military response from South Korea, U.S.
intelligence officials and analysts of the region said.  The test for the North’s antagonists in Seoul,  Tokyo  and
Washington may come in 2012, as the regime will want to convey a
sense of order during the mourning and transition period,
observers said. Its top ally,  China , also has the incentive to
avert reckless steps by its neighbor, said U.S. officials who
spoke on the condition of anonymity because intelligence on
North Korea is classified.  “This is an extremely uncertain period,” said Charles Pritchard, who led U.S.-North Korea talks in 1997 and now is
president of the Korea Economic Institute, a public policy
research group in Washington. “The new leader doesn’t have a
power base of his own to ensure his survival; the military will
be wary of perceived threats; and instability could occur
rapidly.”  Power Centers  A lot depends on whether the military, Workers’ Party of
Korea and Kim family coalesce around Kim Jong Un or see this
period as an opportunity to alter the balance of power
internally, one U.S. official said.  The possibility of conflict rattled stocks yesterday, with
the KOSPI Index of South Korean shares falling 3.4 percent.
Equities recouped some of the loss today, advancing 0.9 percent
by the close in  Seoul .  Kim Jong Un’s father had decades of preparation before his
father’s passing, and years after that, to build his authority.
American officials said they consider Kim similar to his father
in personality and mannerisms.  One question is whether Kim -- who U.S. officials say will
turn 28 in January -- has enough experience effectively to
manage the military and senior government figures who have
supported his family’s rule since 1948. It’s possible that his
short preparation has been sufficient given that upper echelons
of the nation’s society are invested in the family, or perhaps
too fearful to do anything but support him, U.S. officials said.  Funeral Plan  A North Korean attack might be less likely now because
Pyongyang won’t want to disrupt four to five months of planned
national unity events following the Dec. 28 funeral, said a
congressional staff member on condition of anonymity because of
lack of authorization to speak publicly.  One sign of relative calm for now: a short-range ballistic
missile test yesterday, which “was the least provocative thing
the North could do,” said Patrick Cronin, the senior director
of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New
American Security in  Washington , in a telephone interview.  The test, which U.S. officials said probably was planned
before the elder Kim’s death, violated no agreements and posed
no new threats, while it still allowed leaders in Pyongyang to
demonstrate their military commitment, said Cronin, who recently
returned from  Japan  and South Korea.  Refugee Concern  China, North Korea’s biggest trading partner, also has an
interest in maintaining stability on the Korean Peninsula, in
part to prevent a flood of refugees from the impoverished nation.  While pursuing its policy of “juche,” or self-reliance,
North Korea has grown more dependent on China to buy its coal
and minerals as international sanctions over its nuclear weapons
program closed other markets. China accounted for 83 percent of
North Korea’s $4.2 billion in international commerce last year,
compared with 53 percent in 2005, according to the Seoul-based
Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency.  Chinese and U.S. officials have worked in recent years to
seek ways to avert a Korean crisis, the congressional aide said.
China and  South Korea  have held similar talks, the aide said,
and Chinese officials visited the North Korean and South Korean
capitals to cool tensions after a 2010 North Korean attack sank
the South Korean warship Cheonan and killed 46 seamen.  No New Openings  The uncertain transition in Pyongyang -- coupled with
national elections in South Korea and a generational change in
the Chinese leadership scheduled for next year -- is unlikely to
offer any immediate opportunities to revive six-party talks on
North Korea’s nuclear program or negotiations on other issues,
U.S. officials and experts said yesterday. Discussions with the
North, South,  Russia , China, Japan and the U.S. broke off in
April 2009, when the North disengaged.  “You have to assume the new leadership is going to be
cautious about entering into new commitments, and you may have
skepticism about their ability to actually implement the new
commitments that they make,” Marcus Noland, deputy director of
the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington
and the author of the book “Avoiding the Apocalypse: The Future
of the Two Koreas,” said in an interview.  It’s important for the Obama administration to reiterate
its willingness to enter into discussions with the North as it
restates opposition to the North’s nuclear weapons, said Robert Gallucci, a former chief North Korea negotiator in the Clinton
administration and who is now president of the MacArthur
Foundation in  Chicago .  Clinton Statement  For now, the official American response has been an
expression of sympathy for the North Korean people. U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in a statement late
yesterday that “we are deeply concerned with the well being of
the North Korean people and our thoughts and prayers are with
them during these difficult times.”  The succession may prompt the Obama administration to move
forward with an announcement of new food aid to North Korea
after negotiations last week in Beijing, said Scott Snyder, a
Korea fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in Washington a
policy research group.  Anyone hoping that  Kim Jong Il ’s death and his untested
successor may mean the end of one of the world’s most repressive
and reclusive regimes may be disappointed, however, said a U.S.
intelligence official with long experience in  Asia .  The North’s brand of communism has failed its people in
almost every conceivable way, starting with providing food and
other necessities, the official said. Still, the official added,
its unique mix of self-reliance, xenophobia, Confucian deference
to family elders, brutal repression and Marxist-Leninist-Mao
Zedong utopianism may prove resistant to the unrest that’s
sweeping other authoritarian states from  Tunisia  to  Syria  to
Russia, at least for a while longer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  