-- North Korea Recalls Some Troops to Base as South Tightens Cyber Security
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n ,   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2011-12-20T07:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/north-korea-recalls-some-troops-to-base-as-south-tightens-cyber-security.html
North Korean troop movements
following former leader  Kim Jong Il ’s death do not indicate any
imminent provocation, according to authorities in Seoul who said
they had taken steps to thwart potential cyber attacks.  Units returning to bases overnight conducted annual winter
drills, the South’s defense ministry said in a statement given
to reporters today in the capital. Still, the cyber alert level
is now at “infocon 4,” which indicates signs of a “general
threat,” defense ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok told
reporters.  With reports from the official Korean Central News Agency
referring to Kim’s son as the “great successor,” investors
bought South Korean stocks and the won amid the relative calm.
Kim Jong Il’s death was announced at noon yesterday.  “Most likely  North Korea  is going to be quite stable in
the short term,” David Kang, director of the Korean Studies
Institute at the University of  Southern California , said by
telephone today. “There is really no question about who is
going to take over, the only question is when.”  The Korean Communications Commission raised its alert level
to “caution,” according to a statement yesterday. Both alerts
are one notch above authorities’ standard default for cyber
vigilance.  Continued Surveillance  The U.S. and South Korean military are continuing
surveillance of North Korea and remain on alert, the ministry
said. While the “infocon” cyber alert was increased, the
military hasn’t changed its surveillance “watchcon” or combat
“defcon” alerts, according to the statement.  “The South Korean military has been pretty vulnerable to
cyber terrorism,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a professor of North
Korea studies at  Dongguk University  in Seoul. “It’s possible
that North Korea will launch some cyber attacks, though they’re
unlikely to be extreme at the moment with the nation in
mourning.”  As many as 40 South Korean websites, including at the
presidential office, the National Intelligence Service and
Ministry of National Defense were targeted by hackers in March.
The attacks were traced to  Internet Protocol  addresses used in
the 2009 assaults that were also suspected to be the work of
North Korea, South Korean police said in April.  Paralyzed Network  South Korean prosecutors in May accused North Korea of
paralyzing the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation’s
computer network. The April attack shut out 20 million clients
from the federation’s automated teller machines and online
banking services.  All three episodes used a method called “distributed
denial service,” according to a May 3 statement from the  Seoul 
Central District Prosecutors’ Office. In such assaults malicious
codes infect computers to trigger mass attacks against targeted
websites, according to  Ahnlab Inc. (053800) , South Korea’s largest maker
of antivirus software.  The  Kospi index (KOSPI) , which sank 3.4 percent yesterday, gained
0.9 percent. South Korea’s won rose 1.1 percent to 1,161.18 per
dollar as of 4:28 p.m. in Seoul, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  National Pension Service , the country’s biggest
investor, bought stocks yesterday when the Kospi index fell the
most in more than five weeks and doesn’t see further steep
declines in equities, Kim Hee Seok, head of the fund’s
investment-strategy division, said by phone today.  KB Asset Management Co., a unit of  South Korea ’s second-
largest financial services group, is buying futures on the
nation’s bonds, betting losses after Kim’s death won’t last.  Stocks may become attractive if they fall further on
geopolitical risk, according to Franklin Templeton Investment
Trust Management Co. in Seoul.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  