-- Obama Approval Rating Shows Signs of Rebound
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2011-12-20T20:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/obama-job-approval-ratings-show-signs-of-rebounding-in-abc-news-post-poll.html
President  Barack Obama ’s approval
ratings are showing signs of rebounding following some recent
positive economic data and after months of aggressively
promoting his jobs plan and criticizing his Republican
opposition.  Forty-nine percent of Americans approve of how Obama is
handling his job, according to an ABC News/Washington Post poll
and another conducted for CNN. The rate was the highest in both
surveys since a short-lived bump the president got following the
killing of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in May.  While the public still disapproved of the president’s
handling of the economy in the ABC/Post poll, 56 percent to 41
percent, the margin narrowed from a 23-point spread last month.
The president bested congressional Republicans when it comes to
whom Americans trust to handle the economy and create jobs -- an
increase for Obama over last month, when the results were
divided equally.  Obama may be benefiting from improvements in the  U.S.
economy  and the seesaw battle among the Republican candidates
seeking their party’s presidential nomination.  “It shows a slight glimmer of hope,” Matt Dowd, a
Bloomberg News contributor and a former chief campaign
strategist for Obama’s White House predecessor,  George W. Bush ,
wrote in an e-mail. “But the question is whether it’s a real
change in his prospects or a temporary bump up because of circus
atmosphere of Republican nomination process.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney , in response to a
question about the CNN survey, sought to downplay the approval
numbers, saying “polls go up and down.” The president’s
message may be resonating with the American public, he said.  Obama “is committed to working with Congress and doing the
things he can do outside of Congress to grow the economy and
help it create jobs,” Carney told reporters. “In his last
several months, that focus has been pretty clear.”  Recent data point to an economy that is stabilizing heading
into the election year.  Housing Starts  The Commerce Department reported today that builders broke
ground last month on more houses than at any time since April
2010. Housing  starts  increased 9.3 percent to a 685,000 annual
rate, exceeding the  highest estimate  of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, and building permits, a proxy for future
construction, climbed to a more than one-year high.  The nation’s jobs picture also has improved. The
 unemployment rate  in November dropped to 8.6 percent, the lowest
since March 2009, from 9 percent the month earlier. Last week,
the Labor Department reported that the fewest workers in more
than three years filed  claims  for  unemployment benefits  last
week.  The Labor Department said today that payrolls increased in
29 U.S. states in November, and the jobless rate declined in 43,
a sign the labor market is recovering across much of the U.S.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 3.1 percent to
1,242.68 at 3:42 p.m. in  New York  after the report on housing
was released. The  yield  on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note
advanced 11 basis points to 1.92 percent.  Pessimism on Economy  The higher approval ratings for Obama were tempered by
other numbers. The ABC/Post poll also found heightened public
concern about the future of the economy, with 52 percent saying
they were pessimistic about the economic outlook over the next
12 months and 44 percent describing themselves as optimistic. In
April, an ABC/Post poll had 55 percent as optimistic and 42
percent as pessimistic.  Those who said they were optimistic about their own
family’s financial situation declined to 61 percent from 66
percent in April.  Both surveys were done before the current showdown over
extending into 2012 a two-percentage-point cut in the employee
portion of the  payroll  tax. The ABC/Post telephone poll of 1,005
adults was conducted Dec. 15-18 and the margin of error is plus
or minus 3.5 percentage points. The  CNN  polling of 1,015 adults
was done Dec. 16-18 and has an error margin of 3 percentage
points.  The Republican-controlled House voted today to reject a
bipartisan Senate plan that would have continued the  tax cut  for
two months with debate on extending it for the rest of the year
taking place after Congress returns after the holidays. The
lower tax rate of 4.2 percent is scheduled to expire Dec. 31, at
which point the tax will rise to 6.2 percent.  Extending the  payroll tax  cut was a central element of the
jobs plan Obama proposed in September, and since then he has
sought to portray Republicans in Congress as defending the
wealthy at the expense of middle-income Americans.  Middle-Class Message  In the ABC/Post poll, respondents overwhelmingly said they
trust Obama over Republicans to protect middle-income Americans,
50 percent to 35 percent. Obama’s advisers say that’s a sign the
president’s message is resonating with the public.  “The president has been focused on restoring economic
security for middle-class families while Republicans have
obstructed those efforts and instead proposed a return to the
same policies that led to the economic crisis,” said  Ben LaBolt , a spokesman for Obama’s re-election campaign.  Several other recent polls have shown Obama’s approval
ratings still hovering in the mid-40s with a higher proportion
of those surveyed disapproving of the way he’s handling the job.  The most recent Gallup daily poll put Obama’s approval
rating at 43 percent with 50 percent disapproving. A Dec. 7-11
NBC News/Wall Street Journal  survey  found 46 percent approving
of the job Obama is doing and 48 percent disapproving.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  