-- Obama: Payroll Tax Cut Blocked by ‘Faction’
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2011-12-20T19:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/obama-says-payroll-tax-cut-blocked-by-faction-in-house-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said a two-
month extension of the payroll tax cut passed by the Senate is
the “only viable way” to prevent take-home pay from decreasing
on Jan. 1 and a “faction” of House Republicans is holding up
progress.  House Republicans rejected the Senate’s bipartisan
compromise to win concessions on “extraneous issues,” Obama
said in an unscheduled appearance at the White House briefing
room.  Speaker  John Boehner  and the rest of the House Republican
leadership should “put aside issues where there are fundamental
disagreements and come together on something we agree on,”
Obama said. “Let’s not play brinksmanship. The American people
are weary of it. They’re tired of it. They expect better.”  Obama didn’t answer questions and made no mention of a call
by Boehner, an Ohio Republican, for the Senate to return to
 Washington  to negotiate.  The Republican-controlled House passed a motion to reject
the compromise legislation passed by the Senate. If Congress
doesn’t pass a bill before the end of the year, the payroll tax
for workers is scheduled to return to 6.2 percent from the
temporary rate of 4.2 percent for 2011.  In a 229-193 vote today, the House requested formal
negotiations on a tax cut extension with the Senate, where
Democratic leaders say they won’t discuss a yearlong agreement
until the short-term deal is completed.  Damaging to Economy  Obama said failure to extend the tax cut would be damaging
to the nation’s economic recovery. Allowing the tax to return to
its previous rate might crimp  consumer spending , which accounts
for about 70 percent of the  U.S. economy .  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  accused House
Republicans of ducking a direct vote on whether to accept the
Senate version. The Senate voted 89-10 on Dec. 17 in favor of
the two-month extension.  “The reason they refused to vote on that bill is because
it would have passed,” Carney said at a briefing just before
Obama’s appearance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 