-- Lockheed Martin Wins Japan Order for 42 F-35 Fighter Planes
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r ,   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2011-12-20T03:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/lockheed-martin-wins-japan-jet-fighter-contract-over-boeing-eurofighter.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  won a contract
from Japan to supply  F-35  Joint Strike Fighters, the aircraft’s
first win in a competitive tender.  The U.S. contractor will build 42 of the planes for Japan,
Defense Minister Yasuo Ichikawa told reporters in  Tokyo  today.
He declined to comment on the cost of the contract. The F-35 was
shortlisted against  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s  F-18 Super Hornet  and
Eurofighter GmbH’s Typhoon.  The deal comes as the death of North Korean dictator Kim Jong Il spurs uncertainty about stability on the Korean
peninsula, where 1.7 million troops from North Korea, South
Korea and the U.S. are stationed. Japan, which has the world’s
sixth-largest  defense budget , has been upgrading air defenses as
North Korea improves its ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons
program, and as both Russia and  China  develop stealth fighters.  “From now on, we really have to think about distances and
air force strength in Northeast Asia,” said Hideshi Takesada, a
professor of international relations at Seoul’s Yonsei
University. “This decision reflects the need for stealth and
long-distance combat capabilities.”  The timing of the announcement wasn’t related to Kim’s
death, Takesada said.  Delivery Schedule  The U.S. said yesterday it is consulting with South Korea
and  Japan  following Kim’s death, and Japan said it was
strengthening coast-guard patrols. North Korea conducted a
short-range missile test over its east coast yesterday, Yonhap
News reported, citing South Korean officials.  Japan’s F-35s will replace Boeing F-4s, which were last
assembled in the country in 1981. Japan had a total of 362
fighter jets as of March 31, according to the defense ministry’s
website.  The initial contract with Lockheed is for four jets in the
fiscal year beginning April 1, the Bethesda, Maryland-based
contractor said today in a statement. The company will begin
delivering jets to Japan in 2016, Steve O’Bryan, Lockheed’s vice
president for business development, said on a conference call.  The decision bolsters the F-35 as delays and government
austerity measures imperil orders in the U.K.,  Australia  and
other countries that helped develop it. The U.S. is the plane’s
largest customer with more than 2,440 orders in a $382 billion
plan that forms the Pentagon’s biggest weapons program.  ‘Big Boost’  “It is a big boost for the program politically,” said
James Hardy, a London-based analyst at IHS Jane’s DS Forecast.
“Many partner nations have committed to buying the F-35, but to
have it win an external competition will certainly help take the
pressure off.”  Japan follows three U.S. military service branches and
Israel in choosing the F-35 to modernize their fighter fleets,
O’Bryan said. Lockheed has about 700 F-35 orders from the
program’s eight overseas partner nations, which also include
 Italy , Holland, Turkey, Norway, Denmark and  Canada . Israel and
 Singapore  also have lower-level involvement in the plane.  “We expect more countries to follow suit,” O’Bryan said.  South Korea  plans to call for bids for as many as 60 jet
fighters in the first quarter of 2012, and Singapore is likely
to follow in the near future, he said. The plane is the only jet
with production expected to last beyond 2035, he said.  U.S. Delays  The aircraft, which can be used for both spying and combat,
costs about $133 million each in today’s dollars, according to
the U.S. Government Accountability Office. That’s about double
the price of the  F-18 Super Hornet  and the Eurofighter Typhoon.  The F-35 probably won the Japan contest because of its
stealth technology and the nation’s traditional reliance on U.S.
military hardware, said Hardy at Jane’s. Eurofighter is a
venture between  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  Japan also considered the amount of production work that
could be undertaken locally as it seeks to develop its domestic
defense industry. Japanese companies will do final assembly as
well as work on components, O’Bryan said.  The work “will transform Japanese industry,” O’Bryan
said. “They get advanced composite work, automated machining
with tight tolerances associated with a stealth airplane.”  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  will be involved in work
on aircraft bodies,  IHI Corp. (7013)  on engines, and  Mitsubishi
Electric Corp. (6503)  on mission-related avionics, according to defense
ministry documents.  Behind Schedule  Defense Minister Ichikawa said the F-35 was selected
primarily for its capabilities and also based on costs,
participation by Japanese companies, and logistical support.  In the U.S., the F-35 program is five years behind schedule
and 64 percent over cost estimates. At least some orders may
also be endangered by a congressional supercommittee’s failure
to agree on ways to reduce the federal deficit as this could
trigger mandatory cuts in the Defense Department’s budget.  A Pentagon report also last month advocated a slowdown in
procurement of F-35s because the aircraft’s design had proven
more unstable during testing than anticipated. Defense Secretary
Leon Panetta remains committed to program, his spokesman said
Dec. 8.  India  is also due to make a decision soon on a contract for
126 fighters. It has shortlisted  Eurofighter ’s Typhoon and
 Dassault Aviation SA (AM) ’s Rafale, after eliminating planes
including Lockheed’s F-16 and Boeing’s F-18 Super Hornet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  