-- Ohio State Football Banned From Postseason Next Year by NCAA on Violations
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2011-12-20T20:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ohio-state-banned-from-bowl-games-next-season-by-ncaa-over-rule-violations.html
Ohio State University ’s football
team received a one-year postseason ban following violations
that cost coach  Jim Tressel  his job and the school a season’s
worth of victories.  The Buckeyes will serve the ban, which includes the Big Ten
Conference championship game, after the 2012 campaign, the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  said in a statement.
Ohio State said it wouldn’t appeal.  The decision came almost a year after players including
quarterback Terrelle Pryor were suspended for selling or trading
uniforms and other memorabilia to the owner of a tattoo parlor.
Tressel, 59, quit almost six months later following revelations
that he knew about the infractions and kept it secret.  “Of great concern to the committee was the fact that the
former head coach became aware of these violations and decided
not to report the violations to institution officials, the  Big
Ten Conference  or the NCAA,” the association’s Committee on
Infractions, led by Dennis Thomas, the commissioner of the Mid-
Eastern Athletic Conference, said in its findings.  Ohio State also was put on probation for three years
through Dec. 19, 2014, and had scholarships reduced to 82 from
85 for the next three seasons, ending with the 2014-15 academic
year. The school had proposed the loss of five scholarships over
the three-year period.  “We are surprised and disappointed with the NCAA’s
decision,”  Gene Smith , Ohio State’s athletic director, said in
a  statement  on the school’s website. “However, we have decided
not to appeal the decision because we need to move forward as an
institution.”  Future Limits  Tressel was found to have “engaged in unethical conduct”
for failing to report the violations. He received a five-year
“show-cause” order, which puts limits on his future hiring at
NCAA member schools.  Tressel, who was hired by the  Indianapolis Colts  as a game-
day adviser in September, would be suspended for his first five
games if he returns to college football coaching. He’d also be
banned from his first postseason and the school that hires him
would have to file a plan with the NCAA detailing how it would
monitor him as well as reports every six months.  Ohio State previously vacated all 12 of its victories from
the 2010 season, including the Sugar Bowl. The school announced
its self-imposed action on the 2010 season in July.  Eight players received more than $14,000 in cash and
preferential treatment from the Columbus, Ohio, tattoo parlor,
according to the NCAA.  Players Paid  Following a hearing on Aug. 12, the NCAA found additional
violations that centered on a booster who gave nine football
players more than $2,400 for work not performed.  “Ohio State conceded it could have done more to monitor
the booster by taking additional steps that would have reduced
the likelihood of these violations occurring,” the NCAA said.  Five players were suspended for five games by Ohio State,
which also forfeited $338,811 -- the amount it received from the
Big Ten as a part of the conference’s revenue-sharing plan.  Tressel led the Buckeyes to the national championship after
the 2002 season. He originally was suspended by the school in
March for two games the following season, then increased that
ban himself to five games before saying he was leaving as coach.  After interim coach Luke Fickell led the Buckeyes to a 6-6
record this season, the school hired two-time national
championship winner Urban Meyer as coach on Nov. 28. The
Buckeyes face the University of  Florida , Meyer’s old school, in
the Gator Bowl on Jan. 2.  The NCAA’s ruling came 18 months after the University of
 Southern California  was stripped of victories and banned from
bowl games for two years following violations within its
football and men’s basketball programs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 