-- Tanker Bear Market Worst Since ’90s as Owners See Loss: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2011-12-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/oil-tankers-to-extend-worst-rout-in-four-decades-on-glut-freight-markets.html
The biggest glut of crude tankers in
a quarter century means at least another year of losses for
Frontline Ltd. and Overseas Shipholding Group as the shipping
market suffers its worst rout since the mid-1990s.  Rates from  Saudi Arabia  to  Japan , the benchmark route, will
rise 78 percent to average $15,000 a day in 2012, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 10 investors,
analysts and owners. While that would still be unprofitable for
owners and investors in shipping companies, speculators can make
money because forward freight agreements, traded by brokers and
used to bet on future transport costs, are anticipating an
average of $10,746 next year, from $8,449 in 2011.  “It’s still a terrible situation,” said Ole Stenhagen,
the analyst at SEB Enskilda in Oslo whose recommendations on the
shares of shipping firms returned 33 percent in the past two
years. “People are hunkering down for a prolonged recession in
the tanker market.”  Tankers ordered four years ago when rates reached $229,000
are still leaving yards, adding to the glut just as economic
growth slows. The  International Energy Agency  cut its estimate
for 2012 oil demand four times in as many months and predicts
consumption will contract in  North America  and  Europe  for a
second year. The six largest New York-listed tanker owners will
report a combined loss of $1.1 billion in 2011 and $474 million
next year, 44 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Maritime Routes  Returns for ship owners on the Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage
averaged $8,449 a day this year, according to the London-based
Baltic Exchange, which publishes freight costs along more than
50 maritime routes.  Rates  fell 46 percent to $14,272 since the
start of January and were negative from August through October,
implying that owners were paying clients to hire their vessels.
Frontline, the biggest operator of supertankers, says it needs
$30,200 to break even.  General Maritime Corp. (GMR) , based in New York, filed for
 bankruptcy protection  Nov. 17 and Hamilton, Bermuda-based
Frontline said Dec. 6 it planned to split the company to avoid
running out of cash. Overseas Shipholding, the biggest U.S.
manager of the largest tankers, has reported losses for 10
consecutive quarters.  A second year of unprofitable rates would be the industry’s
worst losing streak since the mid-1990s, according to Martin Stopford, the London-based managing director of Clarkson
Research Services Ltd., part of the world’s biggest shipbroker.
Losses were worse in the early 1980s, when earnings averaged
about $5,000 a day, he said.  “The 1980s were a force-10 storm,” said Stopford, who is
also a visiting professor at the Cass Business School in  London .
“What we’ve got today is a force six to force seven.”  Oil Demand  The  fleet  of supertankers, known in the industry as very
large crude carriers, will expand 8.2 percent next year,
Clarkson estimates. Global oil demand will advance 1.5 percent,
according to the Paris-based IEA. The number of VLCCs jumped 13
percent to 560 since the end of 2007 and  outstanding  orders at
ship yards are equal to 13 percent of existing capacity,
Redhill, England-based IHS Fairplay estimates.  FFAs are traded by brokers including London-based Marex
Spectron Group Ltd. and Simpson, Spence & Young Ltd. and also
cover rates for vessels hauling coal and  iron ore . The market
was valued at $24 billion in 2010, according to the  Baltic
Exchange .  Rates may rebound more than anticipated in the Bloomberg
survey should growth exceed economists’ forecasts. While the
estimate compiled by Bloomberg from regional predictions is for
a 2.47 percent expansion in the global economy next year, the
 International Monetary Fund  is forecasting 4 percent.  Reduce the Glut  China  will consume 5.3 percent more oil next year, almost
four times the global pace, according to the IEA. The Asian
nation is the biggest destination for VLCCs, according to ship-
tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.  Scrapping could also reduce the glut. The difference
between the price of a 15-year-old tanker and the value of its
steel has narrowed to $6.77 million, close to the smallest
spread in at least five years, according to data from Clarkson
and Simpson, Spence & Young, the second-largest shipbroker.
Owners may demolish 5 percent of the fleet within 18 months, the
most in nine years, Clarkson Capital Markets LLC estimates.  Owners are also slowing ships to use less fuel, their
biggest cost. The largest tankers sailed at an average of 10.24
knots in November, compared with 10.93 knots a year earlier,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Reduced speeds means ships take
longer to return to compete for business, effectively cutting
the fleet’s  capacity .  Lower Speeds  The Baltic Exchange’s rates don’t take lower speeds into
account and returns for owners may be higher than implied by the
bourse’s assessment.  Frontline will  lose  a record $243.9 million this year and
$108.28 million in 2012, according to the mean of 20 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “On paper it looks like it will be a difficult year,”
said Jens Martin Jensen, the Singapore-based chief executive
officer of Frontline’s management unit.  Overseas Shipholding, based in  New York , will report a loss
of $213.2 million this year and $137.5 million in 2012, the mean
of nine estimates shows.  The six-member Bloomberg Tanker Index, which includes
Frontline and Overseas Shipholding, slumped 54 percent this
year. The  MSCI All-Country World Index  of equities declined 13
percent and Treasuries returned 9.9 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  Manufactured Goods  The glut also extends to vessels hauling coal, iron ore and
manufactured goods. The fleet of bulk carriers will grow 10
percent in 2012, compared with a 3 percent gain in cargo demand,
according to Clarkson. Capacity on  container ships  will expand
8.6 percent as world trade advances 5.8 percent, data from
Clarkson and the IMF show. About 90 percent of trade goes by
sea, according to the Round Table of Shipping Associations.  Rates for  capesizes , the largest ships used to haul coal
and iron ore, averaged $15,409 this year, the lowest since 2002,
according to the Baltic Exchange. The cost of shipping steel
boxes to the U.S. West Coast from China, a benchmark route, fell
28 percent since the start of January, Clarkson  data  show.  Only about 78 percent of tankers will find work next year,
compared with 82 percent of the dry bulk fleet, Morgan Stanley
said in a Dec. 19 report. Tankers are making owners an average
return of less than 0.1 percent, according to data from London-
based Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd.  The surplus is the largest since one that lasted from 1974
until 1985, said Andreas Vergottis, the Hong Kong-based research
director at Tufton Oceanic Ltd., manager of the world’s largest
shipping hedge fund. He expects 2012 rates to stay close to
daily operating costs of about $12,000.  “Such low rates can exist for a brief period of time but
they’re not sustainable at this current level,” said Nikhil
Jain, a researcher at Drewry in Gurgaon,  India . “The difficult
period is not yet over. We’re just at the start of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  