-- Oil Climbs on Housing Starts, Iran Concern
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2011-12-20T21:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/oil-climbs-for-second-day-as-u-s-housing-starts-climb-iran-concern-grows.html
Oil rose for a second day as U.S.
builders broke ground on more houses than at any time in the
past 19 months and on speculation that further sanctions against
 Iran  will curb supply.  Prices gained 3.6 percent after the Commerce Department
reported housing starts increased 9.3 percent last month to a
685,000 annual rate, exceeding the highest estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Oil also rose as participants
at a meeting in  Rome  vowed to increase pressure on Iran, the
world’s No. 3 crude exporter, over its nuclear program.  “The housing starts number is telling us that the  U.S.
economy  is again making modest improvements,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-
based energy consultant. “Iran can cause short-term dislocation
in the market.”  Crude for January delivery gained $3.34 to settle at $97.22
a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. The contract
expires today. Prices are 6.4 percent higher this year after
rising 15 percent in 2010. The more actively traded February
contract rose $3.19 to $97.24.  Futures advanced in electronic trading after the
settlement. The American Petroleum Institute reported that  oil
inventories  fell 4.57 million barrels to 330 million last week.
February crude gained $3.47, or 3.7 percent, to $97.52 a barrel
in electronic trading at 4:39 p.m.  Brent oil for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange increased $3.09, or 3 percent, to settle
at $106.73.  ‘Road to Recovery’  November housing starts were the most since April 2010. The
median estimate of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a gain to 635,000. Building permits, a proxy for future
construction, climbed to a 681,000 annual pace in November, the
highest level since March 2010.  “In the U.S., the economy is on the road to recovery, with
falling unemployment and consistently improving growth against a
background of low and falling oil stockpiles,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in  London .  U.S. crude inventories fell by 2.13 million barrels last
week, according to the median estimate of 12 analysts surveyed
Bloomberg News. The Energy Department will report on stockpiles
at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  U.S. equities also gained after the economic reports were
released. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 3 percent and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  added 2.9 percent.  Pressure on Iran  Participants in what was described as a meeting of “like-
minded nations” asked Iran “to satisfy requests by the
international community for immediate clarification on the
nuclear program,” the Italian Foreign Ministry said today in an
e-mailed statement.  “It’s an important meeting, but a preparatory one,” said
 Cliff Kupchan , an analyst at New York-based research company
Eurasia Group. Its purpose is “to prepare for an EU embargo of
Iranian oil, which will probably be announced in January.”  The European Union added 180 Iranian officials and
companies to a blacklist this month to intensify pressure on
Iran over its nuclear program, after the U.S. imposed stiffer
penalties in November.  Iran is the second-largest member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, after  Saudi Arabia . The country
pumped about 5 percent of the world’s oil last year, based on
BP’s annual Statistical Review of World Energy. Only Saudi
Arabia and  Russia  export more crude.  Euro Strengthens  Oil also advanced as the euro strengthened against the
dollar after Spain’s borrowing costs dropped at a sale of three-
and six-month bills.  “Some of the worries about  Europe  are once again
receding,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford,  Connecticut . “The market has some
support because of geopolitical tension and fears of supply
disruption.”  Data from  Germany  indicated Europe’s largest economy is
weathering the region’s debt crisis. The nation will probably
avoid a recession, two economic institutes that advise
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government said, and the Ifo
institute reported an unexpected gain in business confidence.  The  euro rose  0.6 percent against the dollar to $1.3079.
The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against six
major peers including the euro and the yen, slid 0.6 percent. A
weaker dollar increases oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative.  Oil output in  Kazakhstan (KMG)  may be affected by riots in the
western town of Zhanaozen, according to Commerzbank AG. Riots
spread this weekend in the Mangistau region. The area accounts
for 25 percent of the  country’s oil production  of 1.6 million
barrels a day, Commerzbank said.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 393,826
contracts as of 4:37 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 438,986
contracts yesterday, the lowest level since Nov. 25. Open
interest was 1.3 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  