-- Oil Rises a Second Day on Signs U.S. Crude Supplies Shrank, Iran Outlook
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2011-12-20T13:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/oil-rises-a-second-day-on-signs-u-s-crude-supplies-shrank-iran-outlook.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New
York  on forecasts that U.S. crude stockpiles declined for a
second week and speculation that further sanctions against  Iran 
will curb supply from OPEC’s second-largest producer.  Futures advanced as much as 1.7 percent, extending
yesterday’s 0.4 percent gain. U.S. crude inventories fell by 2
million barrels last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before tomorrow’s Energy Department report. Gulf Cooperation
Council leaders are in Saudi Arabia for a meeting that may
address responses to  Iran’s nuclear program .  “In the U.S., the economy is on the road to recovery, with
falling unemployment and consistently improving growth against a
background of low and falling oil stockpiles,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London. “In
 Europe  growth is virtually non-existent.”  Crude for January delivery climbed as much as $1.62 to
$95.50 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract, which expires today, was at $95.49 at
1:20 p.m. London time. The more actively traded February future
gained $1.55 to $95.60. Prices are 4.5 percent higher this year
after rising 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange rose as much as $2.11, or 2 percent, to
$105.75 a barrel. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $10.05 to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate
grade for the same month. The front-month spread widened to a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  European Economy  Crude also gained as the euro advanced against the dollar
after  Spain ’s borrowing costs dropped at a sale of three- and
six-month bills. The nation sold 5.64 billion euros of the debt,
exceeding its maximum target of 4.5 billion euros.  Data today from  Germany  indicated Europe’s largest economy
is weathering the region’s debt crisis. The nation will probably
avoid a recession, two economic institutes that advise
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government said, and figures from the
Ifo institute showed business confidence unexpectedly rose for a
second month in December.  The Munich-based institute’s business climate index, based
on a survey of 7,000 executives, rose to 107.2 from 106.6 in
November. Economists expected a drop to 106, the median forecast
of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  ‘Surge’ on Sanctions  Oil may surge by $40 a barrel if sanctions halt supplies
from Iran, Francisco Blanch, Bank of America Corp.’s head of
commodities research in New York, said in a report. The Persian
Gulf nation is the second-largest producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia .  Iran may face new sanctions that target its crude trade as
the European Union and other importers seek to intensify
pressure over its nuclear program. The country pumped about 5
percent of the world’s oil last year, based on BP Plc’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy. It borders the Strait of
Hormuz, the sea channel through which about 15.5 million barrels
a day, or a sixth of global shipments, are transported,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  The nation is likely to stockpile more unsold crude at sea
as foreign buyers avoid the country’s oil, according to
consultant JBC Energy GmbH.  “Given the tightening noose, it is not unlikely that we
may see more Iranian crude going into floating storage until the
current issues have been resolved,” JBC’s Chairman  Johannes
Benigni  said today in a report from Vienna.  U.S. crude inventories  probably fell  last week as
refineries in states along the Gulf of Mexico limit stockpiles
before year end to reduce tax bills, according to the Bloomberg
News survey of analysts. All seven respondents forecast a drop
in supplies.  Gasoline stockpiles  are expected to have increased
by a median 1 million barrels.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  in
 Washington  will release its supply data today.  Oil in New York has technical resistance along the 50-day
moving average, at $94.84 a barrel today, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Futures settled below that indicator in the past
three days. Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-
resistance levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  