-- Honda Says Reworking Civic Is Part of Plan to Lift Sales 24%
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2011-12-21T21:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/honda-says-reworking-of-civic-sedan-part-of-plan-to-boost-u-s-sales-24-.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  is sprucing up its
Civic sedan, which received poor reviews, after less than a year
on the market as part of a plan to boost U.S. sales by 24
percent in 2012 for its namesake brand.  Honda will unveil “upgrades” on its 2013 Civic, going on
sale late next year, Tetsuo Iwamura, the automaker’s top North
American executive, said in an interview yesterday in Romulus,
Michigan. The current Civic sedan failed to receive the
“recommended” status its predecessors had from Consumer
Reports magazine, which criticized it for a decline in interior
quality, choppier ride, and more road noise. The magazine today
recommended sportier “Si” version of the Civic.  “Building a good car isn’t enough for us, we have to build
a great car,”  John Mendel , Honda’s executive vice president of
sales in the U.S., said in the same interview. “We think we can
do better and the customer expects that and we will.”  U.S. sales of the Civic have fallen 13 percent this year to
200,690, according to researcher Autodata Corp. Honda’s U.S.
sales declined 5.3 percent through November while industrywide
deliveries gained 10 percent as the company suffered inventory
shortages caused by floods in  Thailand  in October and a March
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan . The company has about 117,000
models in inventory, or a 41-day supply, less than half what it
should have, Iwamura said.  “Hopefully, by the end of March next year” Honda will
have full inventory, Iwamura said. “If John could sell more,
then it will be the end of April or May.”  U.S. Reliance  Japan’s third-largest automaker counts on the U.S. for the
largest portion of its global sales. Tight inventory and
competition from rivals including  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia
Motors Corp. (000270)  cut Tokyo-based Honda’s U.S. market share to 9
percent through November from 10.5 percent a year earlier.
Combined share for South Korean affiliates Hyundai and Kia rose
to 9 percent from 7.8 percent during the same period.  Honda’s American depositary receipts rose 0.1 percent to
$29.64 at the close in  New York .  The automaker has set a target to increase U.S. sales of
its namesake brand to 1.25 million models next year, from about
1 million this year, Iwamura said. It plans to boost sales of
its Acura luxury line by 43 percent to 180,000 from about
126,000 this year, he said.  “It looks like quite a high jump, but because of the
availability problem we had a really low year this year,”
Iwamura said. “That is the reason why growth looks huge, but
for us, it’s a natural growth.”  Honda brand’s U.S. sales totaled 931,885 through November
while the Acura brand sold 110,170 vehicles, according to
 Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata.  Replenished Inventory  Sales growth will be driven by replenished inventory and a
2013 lineup with more than 70 percent new models, Iwamura said.
Upgrading the Civic, Honda’s second best-selling car in the
U.S., and other models is an important part of that growth
strategy, he said.  “Civic is a good product; of course the expectation of the
marketplace for Honda product is quite high,” Iwamura said.
“We have to once again make it great.”  Competitors’ small cars are improving, which is challenging
Civic, Iwamura said.  “The gap between Civic and the competitors has been
narrowed,” Iwamura said. “We have to once again make the gap
wider.”  Honda will upgrade the styling, driving characteristics and
comfort of the Civic and other models for the 2013 model year,
Iwamura said.  Consumer Reports   The 2012 Civic “ranks near the bottom of its category,”
 David Champion , senior director of the magazine’s auto-test
center, said in August. Other reviews marked down the Civic for
having a 5-speed automatic transmission, while competitors offer
fuel-saving six-speed gearboxes.  In recommending the Si version of the Civic today, the
Yonkers, New York-based magazine said, “the car still suffers
from many of the same drawbacks as other Civics: vague steering,
cheap plastics, a jittery ride, and lots of noise.” Consumer
Reports ranks the Civic Si ninth among 11 sporty cars it tested.  “We disagree with” Consumer Reports, Mendel said. “Did
they make some points? Yes they did.”  While competition is growing with new small cars such as
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Fiesta,  General Motor Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet Cruze and
Korean models, Honda’s sales decline this year is due to
inventory constraints, not product shortcomings, he said.  “We haven’t gotten worse, everybody else has gotten
better,” Mendel said. “Where we used to be four or five laps
ahead in the race, there’s more people on the same lap with
us.”  Honda withdrew its profit forecast after net income fell 56
percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, to 60.4 billion yen
($761 million), from 135.9 billion yen a year earlier. Honda
said Nov. 30 that it would give a full-year profit forecast at
the end of January, after releasing fiscal third-quarter
results.  Honda’s U.S. headquarters are based in Torrance,
 California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Romulus,  Michigan , at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  