-- London’s Olympic Stadium May Become Multi-Purpose Venue After 2012 Games
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2011-12-20T12:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/london-s-olympic-stadium-may-become-multi-purpose-venue-after-2012-games.html
London ’s  Olympic Stadium  may become
a multi-purpose arena following the  2012 Summer Games , after an
attempt to lease the site to soccer club West Ham failed because
of legal challenges.  Bids to use the Olympic Stadium, which will host the 2017
World Athletics Championships, as a venue for a “full array of
sporting, cultural and commercial events” are now open until
March, the  Olympic Park Legacy Company  said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The OPLC, which will announce the winning bidders in May,
said it is “seeking to deliver a commercially viable
combination of uses that achieves both year-round community
access and public benefits.”  The OPLC in February recommended the east London-based West
Ham and the borough of Newham over a joint bid by Tottenham
Hotspur and AEG, a U.S.-based entertainment facility operator.  In October, the agreement to award the occupancy to the
Hammers, who had promised to keep the running track, collapsed
following a series of legal challenges from Tottenham. Spurs
wanted to make it a soccer-only stadium and pay to refurbish a
running center in south London. West Ham has since said it may
try to rent the site.  When London won the bid to hold the  Olympic Games  in 2005,
organizers promised to retain an athletics track inside the 537
million-pound ($840 million) stadium. The London Olympics start
on July 27. After the Games, the facility will be retained by
the OPLC as a public asset, with a proposed joint venture with
Newham to operate the stadium.  “The government is committed to securing a legacy from the
Olympic Stadium, and wants to see it re-opening in 2014,” U.K.
Minister for Sport and Olympics Hugh Robertson said in the
statement. “With the 2017 World Athletics Championships bid
won, athletics will be at the heart of a multi-purpose venue
that will also be a great asset to the local community. The
Olympic stadium is an iconic venue and I am sure that it will
attract interesting and exciting bids for its future use.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 