-- Hong Kong’s November Inflation Slows to 5.7% on Food Costs
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2011-12-20T08:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/hong-kong-s-november-inflation-slows-to-5-7-on-food-costs-1-.html
Hong Kong’s inflation slowed in
November on reduced gains in pork prices and the city’s
moderating economic growth.  Consumer prices  rose 5.7 percent from a year earlier, the
government said on its website today. That compares with the 5.8
percent gain in October and the median 5.6 percent estimate in a
Bloomberg News  survey  of 11 economists.  Inflation will “gradually recede” because of a decline in
global food prices and moderating growth, the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority, the de-facto central bank, said in  a report  last
week. An increase in consumer costs may remain “notable in the
near term” from an earlier surge in private rentals, the
government said last month.  “With food and commodity prices continuing to moderate,
and the volatility in global trade starting to spill over into
the economy, price pressures in  Hong Kong  are finally starting
to ease,” Donna Kwok, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong
Kong, said before the data.  Global food costs fell for a fifth month in November,
according to the Rome-based United Nations Food and Agriculture
Organization. Hong Kong’s government said today that pork prices
rose at at a slower pace in November.  Average private housing rentals slid 2 percent in the three
months ended November from the previous period to HK$20.1
($2.58) per square foot, down from a record high of HK$20.6 in
the period ended September, Centaline Property Agency, the
city’s biggest closely held real estate broker, said today,
citing a survey of 85 major residential estates.  Underlying CPI  Excluding distortions from temporary government subsidies,
the  underlying inflation rate  was 6.4 percent last month,
unchanged from the October’s record level, the government said.  Hong Kong’s economic growth is expected to slow to 4
percent in 2012 from an estimate of 5.7 percent this year,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “The slowing economy and waning food prices on the
mainland should take some of the impetus out of inflation,” the
IMF  said Dec. 8  in a report on Hong Kong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  