-- Long Beach Gets Downgrade as New York Seashore Town Pays Top Cop $500,000
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2011-12-20T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/long-beach-gets-downgrade-as-new-york-seashore-town-pays-top-cop-500-000.html
The Long Island seashore town of
 Long Beach  had the  credit rating  on its general-obligation bonds
lowered five steps by Moody’s Investors Service after the city
borrowed $4.25 million -- in part to cover a $500,000 payout to
its retiring police commissioner.  Moody’s cut the New York municipality’s rating on $48.3
million of bonds to Baa3, the lowest investment grade, from A1,
according to a report released today. It also placed the city on
review for possible further downgrades.  Earlier this month, Long Beach, a city of almost 36,000
residents about 30 miles (48 kilometers) from  Manhattan , sold
$1.75 million in tax-anticipation notes that mature in August,
and $2.5 million in notes that mature on Dec. 13, 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Long Beach  needed the
cash to meet its December payroll, City Manager Charles Theofan
said today in a telephone interview.  “We had a top police official retire with a terminal leave
payout of $500,000,” Theofan said. “We also spent a
considerable amount of cash on cleaning up the damage from
 Hurricane Irene .”  Police Commissioner Tom Sofield, a lieutenant who spent
more than 30 years with the department, was owed the money under
union contract terms, Theofan said. The city is waiting for a
$1.5 million reimbursement from the federal government to cover
the costs of the August hurricane, he said.  Sick Days  Termination payouts include accrued vacation time and
unused sick days, according to the Long Beach Herald newspaper.
Two other outgoing police department employees cost the city
$900,000 in payouts, the Herald reported Nov. 23.  Sofield has retired from the police department and couldn’t
be reached there, Carolyn Eaton, his former secretary, said in a
telephone interview. His home telephone number is unlisted.  Long Beach’s finances have been “deteriorating” since
2008 as mortgage-tax revenue declined and expenditures
increased, Moody’s analysts wrote.  “Projections show the city’s cash-flow balance is expected
to decline further and may require additional cash-flow
borrowing in the near term,” the analysts wrote.  Theofan said the city expects from $16 million to $17
million on Jan. 1 from real estate tax payments that will refill
its coffers.  “This is not something that is isolated just to us,” he
said. “Municipalities across the country have been downgraded
along with the  United States .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 