-- Absolute Poker Founder Beckley Pleads Guilty in U.S. Online Fraud Case
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2011-12-20T17:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/online-poker-founder-beckley-pleads-guilty-in-fraud-case-1-.html
Brent Beckley, a founder of  Absolute
Poker  of  Costa Rica , pleaded guilty in a U.S. illegal-gambling
case that seeks at least $3 billion in forfeitures and
penalties.  Beckley, 31, a U.S. citizen, pleaded guilty today before
U.S. Magistrate Judge Ronald Ellis in Manhattan to conspiracy to
commit bank fraud and  wire fraud  and conspiracy to violate an
Internet gambling law. The sentencing guideline range in his
plea agreement is 12 to 18 months in prison, Ellis said.
Sentencing is set for April 19.  “I knew that it was illegal to accept credit cards from
players to gamble on the Internet,” Beckley said to the judge
before his plea. “I knew that it was illegal to deceive the
banks in this way.”  Beckley and other defendants helped conceal money received
from U.S. gamblers by disguising it as payments to hundreds of
non-existent online merchants purporting to sell items such as
jewelry and golf balls, according to prosecutors in the office
of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in  Manhattan .  Beckley’s attorney, Robert Cleary, declined to comment
after the hearing.  Continued Operations  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. enacted a law in
2006 barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites,  Absolute Poker , Isle of Man-based PokerStars and
Ireland-based Full Tilt Poker worked around the ban to continue
operating in the U.S. The case is one of several against
Internet gambling companies Bharara has brought.  Bharara’s office in April announced an expanded indictment
against the founders of the three companies, which are the
leading online poker sites doing business with U.S. customers,
according to the indictment.  They are accused of using fraudulent means to circumvent
federal laws and “trick” banks into processing payments on
their behalf.  Another defendant, Bradley Franzen, pleaded guilty in May.  The Internet poker market was $5.1 billion last year, 7.1
percent higher than 2009, according to U.K.-based  H2 Gambling
Capital , which supplies data on the industry. The global online
gambling market now is about $30 billion.  The case is U.S. v. Scheinberg, 10-CR-336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Manhattan federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 