-- Moody’s Affirms Poland’s A2 Rating, Outlook on Budget
-- B y   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2011-12-20T09:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/moody-s-affirms-poland-s-a2-rating-outlook-on-budget-1-.html
Moody’s Investors Service reaffirmed
 Poland ’s A2 credit rating with a stable outlook, citing the
country’s “strong and proven track record” of economic
stability.  Poland’s government has pursued “credible fiscal
consolidation” which Moody’s expects to reverse the
“deterioration” in its fiscal accounts and put and end to
“negative debt dynamics,” Moody’s said today in a statement.  “The main driver underlying Moody’s decision to affirm
Poland’s ratings is the remarkable resilience of the country’s
economy during the global credit crisis and its subsequent rapid
recovery to more trend-like growth rates,” Moody’s said in the
statement.  Poland is the European Union’s largest eastern economy and
was the only country in the bloc to avoid a recession during the
global crisis in 2009. It plans to narrow the  general government
deficit  to 2.9 percent of gross domestic product next year from
5.6 percent in 2011. The government also wants to cut public
debt to 52 percent of GDP next year and to 47 percent in 2015,
when it forecasts a 1 percent budget shortfall.  The country also has significant “buffers” to help its
economy, including access to aid from the  International Monetary
Fund , it said.  Poland has secured access to a $30 billion flexible  credit
line  from the  International Monetary Fund  to shield the economy
from euro-area contagion. The Washington-based lender first
granted the nation the facility reserved for countries with
strong economies in May 2009 and renewed the agreement in
January for two more years.  Moody’s said Poland’s rating, the assessor’s fifth-highest
investment grade, may be upgraded if the government’s “fiscal
strength” is boosted enough to “eliminate structural deficit”
and debt ratios fall.  Poland’s rating is the same as  Italy ’s and Malta’s, one one
level below neighboring Slovakia and the  Czech Republic .  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McQuaid in Warsaw at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net ;
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  