-- Top 10 Green Business Stories of 2011
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i n s t o n
-- 2011-12-20T17:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/top-10-green-business-stories-of-2011.html
     Yes, it's December again somehow: time to look back on
what we've learned and oversimplify into a handy list. Here's
my take on the 10 big stories in sustainability and green
business this year:
1. The usual sustainability drivers got stronger  Ok, this one is cheating a bit, but on a fundamental
level, the top themes in green business haven't actually
changed too much (see the 2010 list). So, rather than take up
valuable list real estate with these perennial favorites and
big-picture drivers, I'll quickly list them in one big bucket
of mega-trends:
- The rise of the consumer around the world, related to...  -  China , China, and China. From relentless demand for
resources to bamboo-like 9% growth to vicious competition for
the technologies and industries of the future, China will be
the big story for a long time.  - The greening of the supply chain. Big organizations
keep asking more of their suppliers.  - Increased demand for transparency and its close
partners, (a) the quest to define and develop
useful sustainability metrics and (b) the
growing sustainability data explosion.
- The military continues to lead the way on energy and
climate.  - The ongoing failure of policy at a global level (with
the important exceptions of some successes/workarounds such
as new mileage targets for cars and trucks and a carbon tax in
 Australia ).  These drivers underpin a number of stories from 2011, but
a few new themes came out as well. Here's the rest of my top
10 stories, with callouts for companies and examples that
typify the trend.  2. Malthus strikes back: Coca-Cola takes an $800 million
hit on commodity costs  Coca-Cola was not alone in facing increasing costs in
2011; one of my clients, Kimberly-Clark, took an earnings hit
from record pulp prices. These companies are notable victims
of a new reality: resources are constrained and input prices
are fundamentally rising.  For over 200 years, from Thomas Malthus to the Limits to
Growth gang, many people have made the case that it won't be
long before we'll run out of food, energy, materials, and on
and on. It's an idea that has enthralled many, but has seemed
to be wrong. But this year, something felt different as we hit
7 billion hungry, striving humans on the planet. While
"running out" isn't really the right phrase, it's clear that
delivering many commodities to market is getting harder and
more expensive (we don't dig for oil a mile under the ocean
for the heck of it). And the dangerous mix of supply crunch
and rising demand is only increasing, across nearly all
commodities.  In January, China "seized" its rare earth metals (meaning
it wouldn't export them anymore). In June, the New York Times
declared a warming world hostile to  food production . The best
analysis of the resource scarcity mega-trend came from asset
manager  Jeremy Grantham . His analysis of commodity
availability on a finite planet is compelling, thorough, and
absolutely fascinating. Here's the gist: after 100+ years of
fundamentally declining resource prices, the data show a
rising trend for nearly every input into our society. Business
as usual is no more.  3.  Climate Change  Arrives:  Texas  weather triumphs over
(some) ignorance  Climate change is here. The list of "once-in-a-century"
storms, floods, and droughts this year is too long to list. I
know, I know — no single storm or season "proves" climate
change. Was a year like 2011 possible in a world without
climate change? Of course. But please. Was a year like
2011 likely? Not at all. In the words of climate scientist Jim
Hansen, we've loaded the dice in favor of extreme weather
events.  From Thailand to  Pakistan  to Texas, some areas are
deluged with water, while others have absolutely none. Please
look at the numbers for how dry and hot Texas was this summer
(I'll wait). The data speaks for itself: Texas' heat was
literally off the charts this year. What was once temporary
drought is looking more like permanent change. For another
angle on a changing "normal," read Jeff Goodell's piece in
Rolling Stone on "Climate Change and the End of Australia."
Finally, if the immediacy of the "look out the window" method
of gauging climate change didn't work for some, at least one
major climate skeptic changed his tune based on longer-term
data. Richard Muller ran the models himself and discovered
that, surprise, the thousands of scientists before him had
gotten it right. It's probably wishful thinking, but I believe
the climate debate is actually over (and a solid majority of
Americans agree).  4. High-profile "failures" shake up clean tech: Solyndra
has its day in the, um, sun  What can one say about the failure of solar
company Solyndra? It certainly has become a media darling for
clean tech skeptics. Soon after this quasi-fiasco, a few other
stories seemed to indicate that corporate America was backing
off of green tech. Google stopped its high-profile pursuit of
cheaper-than-fossil-fuel renewables, and California
utility PG&E quietly pulled the plug on its carbon offset
program. In my view, none of this is all that distressing. So
one technology and company failed miserably (and perhaps the
government made a bad investment choice). And some initiatives
didn't work out as planned. So what. Whether it's government
money,  venture capital , or corporate initiatives, you gotta
place lots of bets to get some winners. These were all
experiments, and you always learn from what doesn't work. But
the real reason I'm not too worried is that...  5. ...clean tech is rising fast: Renewable investment
tops fossil fuels for first time  Markets have a remarkable way of sorting the wheat from
the chaff. While the overallcarbon emissions news is not
good, the renewable energy market is growing very fast. The
sector is larger than most people realize, with clean tech
investment hovering around $200 billion globally. Total
investment in new power generation is a good indication of
where we're headed, and for the first time renewables beat
fossil fuels globally. Right now, the U.S. and China are
entering a trade battle over solar subsidies, which tells me
it's a real market now. They wouldn't be arguing if the prize
were not very large.
5b. Nuclear on the outs  Following the nuclear meltdown in Fukushima,  Japan , the
once-resurgent nuclear industry is flatlining: generation
actually fell globally in 2011, with  Germany  alone shutting
down 8 gigawatts' worth. In September, Siemens, one of the
world's largest nuclear power plant suppliers, exited the
business. CEO Peter Loscher declared Germany's plans to move
aggressively toward renewables "the project of the century."  6. Water rising — both literally and as a serious issue
for business: Honda's supply chain gets slammed, Levi's gets
creative  A list of floods that devastated lives, homes, and
countries this year would be tragically long. So it's no
wonder that business started to wake up to the serious danger
that storms and shortages present to their operations, both
from direct damage to property and from massive production
interruptions (i.e., "business continuity"). Think back to the
January floods in Australia which covered an area larger than
France and Germany combined. The extreme weather seriously
disrupted coal production, one of the most important economic
engines in the country. At the microeconomic level, consider
what  Thailand 's floods have done to the market for disk
drives, or to supply chains for Honda and Toyota (which are
dealing with a double flood hit from the tsunami as well).  On the use side of the water issue, companies with
products that depend on water in production (beverages) or in
use (shampoo, apparel) are also seeing the writing on the wall
and getting creative. Levi's announced a low-water jeans
production method, Unilever started asking customers to
shorten showers, and beverage companies are working with
farmers and NGOs to drive water use down throughout the value
chain (see my last blog, co-written with Andy Wales from
SABMiller). In 2011, the phrase "water footprint" became a lot
more common.  7. Value chain and transparency partnerships growing: The
apparel industry bands together  One of my favorite new partnerships is the
new Sustainable Apparel Coalition, an impressive mix of
powerful retailers, apparel manufacturers, and NGOs. The group
is leveraging extensive data from Nike and the Outdoor
Industry Association on supplier sustainability performance
(energy, water, toxicity, etc.) for "every
manufacturer, component, and process in apparel production."
The goal: to reduce negative environmental and social impacts
of the $1.4 trillion market for clothes and shoes.  The larger trend here is the continued growth of "open" —
open data and open innovation, including new value-chain
business partnerships and cattle-call contests inviting in any
and all ideas. The movement has been building for years, from
P&G opening up its product development pipeline early in the
2000s to the launch of the GreenXchange for sharing green
patents early in 2010. But the trend accelerated this
year, with GE's expanded Ecomagination Challenge and other
coalitions and open competitions.  8. Valuing and internalizing the externalities: Puma
Calculates its Environmental P&L  A few very cutting edge companies are starting to ask
some deeper questions about the value they create and destroy
in the world. Puma, in a surprise leap to the front of the
sustainability leadership pack, commissioned TruCost and PwC
(full disclosure: I have a partnership with PwC) to assess the
value of its total environmental impacts from operations and
supply chain, including carbon pollution, water use,  land
use , and waste generated. The total: 145 million euros. In a
similar vein, Dow Chemical launched a 5-year, $10 million
partnership with The Nature Conservancy to "value nature" (so
called "ecosystem services") as an input into their
businesses. It's unclear what companies can do with these
numbers since externalities are by their
nature, well, external to the regular P&L. But it's the
beginning of something very important — companies are starting
to understand the real value and costs of their businesses, to
themselves and to society. Watch this space.
9. The people speak: Keystone and OWS  Speaking of getting companies and governments to think
longer term about value and costs to society: against all odds
and expectation, the protests against the Keystone XL
pipelinefrom Canada — led most prominently by
uber-environmentalist Bill McKibben — were successful (for
now). And what can one say about Occupy  Wall Street ? The
movement is, in part, about this larger question of value and
values. Do we value the right things
(equity, fairness, justice) or just promote growth and profit
above all? Currently, our businesses are driven entirely by
quarterly profits. Pursuing the short-term payback can cause a
firm to deviate wildly from actual, long-term, sustainable
profitability. This disconnect was bound to stir some passions
eventually. Whatever your politics, ignoring or dismissing
this movement is a big mistake. The concerns underpinning the
anger out there stem from concern about what's good for the
long-term, and what's truly sustainable. None of these
questions are going away.  10.  A path to sustainable consumption begins to emerge:
Patagonia asks us to buy only what we need  Perhaps the most heartening business story of the year
came from perennial thought (and action) leader, Patagonia.
Its Common Threads campaign/business model questions
consumption at its core. The company announced that it would
take back its clothing and
refurbish, resell, reuse, re-whatever. The website proposes a
grand bargain - we make clothes that last, and you don't buy
what you don't need. A holiday ad got more specific and
demanded we "Don't buy this jacket." Patagonia is testing new
ground and it's not a gimmick — it's a sign of the future.
Looking Forward to 2012 and beyond: New business models coming  Patagonia has always been at the leading edge; it was one
of first companies to buy organic cotton or to turn recycled
plastic into fleece. Now it's showing the way to new business
models. I've written about this kind of heresy before, but the
few examples out there are generally B-to-B (Waste
Management, Xerox). Patagonia's move is a warning shot over
the bow that the consumer-facing consumption question is
coming. The near future will hold more questions about how
businesses can and should operate in a
resource-constrained, hotter, drier (or wetter) world. And
companies will increasingly question the wisdom of focusing on
quarterly profits. It won't all come to fruition in 2012, but
it's on its way.  As usual, I'm sure I'm missing many great stories in my
list. I look forward to your suggestions. Happy holidays and
Happy New Year!  Andrew Winston is the co-author of the best-seller Green
to Gold and the author of Green Recovery. He advises some of
the world’s biggest companies on environmental strategy.
Follow him on Twitter at @GreenAdvantage. 