-- Oracle Sales, Profit Miss Estimates
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2011-12-21T22:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/oracle-misses-estimates-as-clients-throttle-tech-spending-shares-decline.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  dropped the most in
more than nine years, dragging down other software makers, after
it reported quarterly sales and profit that missed analysts’
estimates in a sign companies are spending less on programs that
help them manage operations.  The second-largest software maker said profit before some
costs in the fiscal second quarter ended Nov. 30 was 54 cents a
share, on revenue excluding certain items of $8.81 billion,
according to a statement yesterday. Analysts had projected
profit of 57 cents on sales of $9.23 billion, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Oracle and other business-software companies are taking
longer to close deals as companies gird for slow economic growth
in the U.S. and the possibility of a recession in  Europe  next
year, said Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. New
software licenses, an indicator of future revenue, rose less
than Sherlund projected, and sales of hardware acquired through
the Sun Microsystems deal fell more than expected.  “The economy got a little harder for them,” Pat Walravens, an analyst at JMP Securities in San Francisco, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg West.”  “In that situation you need to manage your sales force a
little more carefully. They were not doing that this quarter.”
Walravens has a “market outperform” rating on Oracle shares.  Share Price Drop  The stock tumbled 12 percent to $25.77 at the close in New
York, the biggest intraday drop since March 2002. Oracle shares
have declined 18 percent this year. The company, based in
 Redwood City ,  California , also said it will buy back as much as
$5 billion in shares.  Rival  SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest German software maker, dropped
6.3 percent to $52.24 in New York.  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  slipped
5.1 percent to $99.03.  Fortinet Inc. fell 6.1 percent to $20.05. Citrix Systems
Inc. declined 7.8 percent to $58.46. Software maker VMware Inc.
dropped 9.9 percent to $76.85.  Oracle’s weakness also weighed on CommVault Systems Inc.,
the Oceanport, New Jersey-based maker of software that helps
companies store and manage data. CommVault tumbled 13 percent to
$40.39.  Oracle’s sales excluding certain items in the current
quarter, which ends in February, will increase 1 percent to 5
percent from a year earlier, co-President Safra Catz said on a
conference call yesterday. On average, analysts were predicting
sales growth of 7.4 percent to $9.46 billion. Profit before some
costs will be 55 cents to 58 cents a share, compared with
analysts’ average 59-cent estimate.  Hardware Declines  In the second quarter, new software license sales rose 2.5
percent to $2.05 billion, compared with the $2.28 billion
Sherlund estimated in a Dec. 15 research note.  Sales of hardware obtained in last year’s $7.4 billion
acquisition of Sun Microsystems declined to $953 million,
missing the $1.06 billion in revenue estimated by Sherlund, who
is based in  New York  and has a “buy” rating on the shares.  Net income in the second quarter rose 17 percent to $2.19
billion, or 43 cents a share, Oracle said in the statement.  In the third quarter, software license sales will be
unchanged to 10 percent higher, and hardware sales will decline
5 percent to 15 percent, Catz said.  “This is indicative of some pullback in general enterprise
IT spending,” said  Josh Olson , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.
in  Des Peres ,  Missouri . Technology spending next year could be
constrained among European companies, government customers and
banks, said Olson, who rates Oracle shares “buy.” “They’re
going to feel the brunt of that.”  Contract Slowdown  Customers are adding more layers of management approval for
technology purchases, including some chief executive officers
getting involved, Catz said yesterday. That’s slowing down the
closing of contracts, she said. In response, Oracle has added
new “deal management” procedures to monitor signings and make
sure the necessary approvals are in place.  “We’ll have a much more normal next quarter,” she said.  The effect of the declining value of the euro against the
dollar also is hurting sales. Excluding the effect of currency
fluctuations, revenue this quarter would increase 3 percent to 7
percent, Catz said.  Jason Maynard , an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities, said
in a Dec. 19 report that corporate spending on hardware and
software may fall 8 percent in the first quarter, a steeper drop
than the average 7.3 percent decline during the quarter in the
past 10 years.  Oracle Acquisitions  To help blunt the impact of a possible slowdown in software
sales growth, Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison  has snapped up more than
70 companies in a $40 billion buying spree to add programs that
help large corporations manage human resources and operations.
The company has been using the acquisitions to build up its
cloud business, meant to appeal to customers that are seeking to
save money by letting them access computing power over the
Internet.  On Oct. 24, Oracle said it would buy online customer-
service software company RightNow Technologies Inc. for $1.5
billion. Earlier that month, the company unveiled its Public
Cloud service, which will run its  database software  and more
than 100 new applications called Fusion in its data centers for
customers.  Oracle, the largest database-software maker, is using the
Sun acquisition to develop computer servers -- including high-
end Exadata and Exalogic machines -- that run its database and
applications. Still, its lower-priced systems using Intel Corp.
chips are losing ground to competitors.  The company’s share of the worldwide server market declined
to 6 percent in the third quarter, from 6.5 percent a year
earlier, while Dell Inc. gained, market researcher IDC said.  Ellison told analysts on yesterday’s call that Oracle’s
hardware business could expand by the fiscal fourth quarter,
which ends in May. Sales of Exadata, Exalogic and other high-end
systems could reach $1 billion annually by the end of the fiscal
year.  “Then we plan to double those sales again next fiscal
year,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  