-- Take-Home Pay Set to Decline in 2012 as Positions Harden on Worker Tax Cut
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2011-12-21T16:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/house-defies-obama-by-blocking-two-month-extension-of-u-s-payroll-tax-cut.html
Paychecks for 160 million workers
will be reduced in January unless lawmakers break a stalemate
that could dent U.S. economic growth and poses political
difficulties for a Congress with low public approval ratings.  House Speaker  John Boehner  and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  kept up the pressure on each other today while showing no
intention of making concessions on a tax-cut extension that
would break the logjam. President Barack Obama insisted
yesterday that the only way to avert a  payroll tax  increase for
workers in January is for the House to send him a two-month deal
the Senate passed Dec. 17.  Boehner and the Republican-controlled House voted 229-193
yesterday, with no Democratic support, to reject the two-month
bipartisan Senate measure and call for a yearlong extension of
the tax cut.  The roll call was structured in a way that let lawmakers
vote “yes” in an effort to avoid the appearance that
Republicans were vetoing a  tax cut  and violating a bedrock
principle of the party. The House maneuver allowed it to move
directly to a conference committee with the Senate that Reid, a
 Nevada  Democrat, had already rejected.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, met today with eight House
Republicans chosen to negotiate a resolution and demanded that
Democrats name lawmakers to join the deliberations.  ‘The Same Thing’  The president and bipartisan congressional leaders “have
all really asked for the same thing over the course of the last
several months: Let’s extend the payroll tax credit for a
year,” Boehner said.  In a letter to Boehner today, Reid reiterated that he won’t
negotiate on a longer-term extension of the tax cut and other
expiring laws until the two-month deal is completed.  “I am fully confident that we can work out our differences
and find common ground on a yearlong extension,” he wrote.
“But in the meantime, families should not have to worry that
they will wake up to a tax increase on Jan. 1, 2012.”  The Republicans’ “political strategy mystifies me”
because “you can’t win by walking away doing nothing,”
Democratic Representative Jim McDermott of  Washington , a member
of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, said in an
interview yesterday. “The Senate has put down a very, very firm
mark. They are not going to move.”  4.2 Percent Tax  A lower payroll-tax rate of 4.2 percent is set to expire
Dec. 31, at which point the employee portion of the tax that
funds Social Security will rise to 6.2 percent. Extending the
tax cut has been a focus of the jobs plan that Obama proposed in
September.  An emphasis on middle-class concerns has helped Obama’s
public approval ratings, with 49 percent of Americans approving
of how he is handling his job, the highest since May, according
to a new ABC News/Washington Post poll and another conducted for
 CNN . Meanwhile, a Dec. 7-11 Pew Research Center poll found that
40 percent of adults blame Republican leaders for a “do-
nothing” Congress, while 23 percent blame Democrats.  Democrats yesterday called on Republicans to relent and
pass the Senate bill.  “What we are dealing with today is a legislative
tantrum,” said Representative  Earl Blumenauer  of  Oregon .  Paying the Cost  Most lawmakers agree that the tax cut should be extended
through 2012. They differ on how to cover the cost to the
Treasury and on what other policy changes they want to accompany
the tax cut. Senate Democrats want to pay part of its cost with
a surtax on incomes exceeding $1 million, which Republicans
oppose, and  House Republicans  have voted to pay for the bill
through such measures as freezing the pay of federal civilian
employees.  The power struggle is notable because in the past week
Democrats and Republicans made progress in reaching agreement on
the two-month plan, which would give them time for negotiations
on a longer-term proposal when they return from the holiday
recess. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell worked out the
short-term measure with Reid, which was backed by 39 Republicans
in the 89-10 Senate vote for passage.  Republican Senators Richard Lugar of  Indiana , Scott Brown
of  Massachusetts , Olympia Snowe of  Maine  and Dean Heller of
Nevada have criticized the actions of their House counterparts.  “It angers me that House Republicans would rather continue
playing politics than find solutions,” Brown said in a
statement yesterday. “Their actions will hurt American families
and be detrimental to our fragile economy.”  Consumer Spending   The impasse could hurt consumer spending and economic
growth. In addition to the payroll tax cut, expanded
 unemployment  benefits will expire, and doctors would receive
smaller Medicare reimbursements starting in January.  Failure to enact the legislation would reduce economic
growth by 1.5 percentage points in the first half of 2012,
according to a forecast by  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist
at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in  New York .  House Republicans maintain that a short-term extension
wouldn’t provide the certainty that businesses need for planning
and would cause administrative hassles for payroll providers and
employers.  “Our economy is too weak and the American people have been
struggling for far too long” for Congress to come up short of
an agreement, said Representative Dave Camp, a  Michigan 
Republican and chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.
“There’s no reason why we can’t resolve the differences between
the House-Senate versions before the end of the year.”  Conference Committee  Republicans say there is still time to negotiate an
agreement in the conference committee the House voted to set up
yesterday. Boehner appointed to the panel Republican
Representatives Camp, Kevin Brady of  Texas , Renee Ellmers of
 North Carolina , Nan Hayworth of New York, Tom Price of Georgia,
Tom Reed of New York, Fred Upton of Michigan and Greg Walden of
Oregon.  A schedule announcement from the office of Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor  of Virginia said House members would recess, though
negotiators and House leaders will be available to consider a
conference. Members could be called back to Washington with 24
hours notice, the announcement said.  Democrats maintain that the best way to provide certainty
for businesses would be to pass the two-month extension and then
work on the longer-term proposal.  In a statement issued after yesterday’s vote, Reid called
the House action “unconscionable.”  ‘The Clock Ticks’  “As the clock ticks towards a middle-class tax hike, I
would implore Speaker Boehner to listen to the sensible Senate
Republicans and courageous House Republicans who are calling on
him to take the responsible path,” Reid said.  Some Democrats disputed the Republican assertion that both
sides were close to an agreement that could avert the tax cut
from lapsing.  “We just watched the supercommittee made up of three
members from each caucus sit for eight weeks and come up with
absolutely nothing” on deficit reduction, McDermott said. “Why
would they think having a conference committee on this issue is
going to come up with anything when the goal of the Republicans
is to never make the president look good?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  