-- Clippers Beat Lakers in NBA’s Preseason Matchup in Los Angeles
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-20T06:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/paul-billups-help-los-angeles-clippers-beat-lakers-in-nba-preseason-game.html
Chris Paul  and Chauncey Billups
combined for 40 points to lead the Clippers to a 114-95 win
against the Lakers in the opening preseason game for Los
Angeles’s two National Basketball Association teams.  Paul had 17 points and nine assists in his debut for the
Clippers, who acquired the All-Star point guard from the New
Orleans Hornets last week after NBA Commissioner David Stern
voided a trade that would have sent Paul to the Lakers.  Billups, who had a team-leading 23 points, also joined the
Clippers last week after being released by the  New York Knicks .  While only a preseason exhibition, the Clippers won the
opening round against their Los Angeles rivals six days before
the start of the NBA’s regular season. The Clippers and Lakers
have shared the city for the past 27 years, during which time
the Lakers have won eight NBA championships and the Clippers
have had two winning seasons.  “Overall, our effort was great,” Paul said in a televised
interview. “It is a preseason game, but at the same time we
have to approach every game the same because we don’t have much
time to be together. It was a lot of fun.”  After the addition of Paul, the Clippers’ odds of winning
the NBA title dropped to 15-1 from 50-1 at the Las Vegas
Hilton’s race and sports book. They’re tied for the seventh-best
odds among the league’s 30 teams, while the Lakers at 6-1 are
tied with the  Chicago Bulls  as the third-favorite behind the
 Miami Heat  and defending champion  Dallas Mavericks .  Kobe Bryant scored 22 points to lead the Lakers, who played
without point guard Derek Fisher.  Blake Griffin , last season’s NBA rookie of the year, had 12
points for the Clippers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  