-- Petrobras to Expand Pre-Salt Oil Drilling to Angola in 2012
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2011-12-20T17:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/petrobras-says-at-least-12-rigs-will-start-operating-in-2012.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Latin
America’s largest company by market value, said it will start
drilling oil in deep waters off Africa early next year on bets
the area may mirror Brazilian deposits across the Atlantic.  The Brazilian state-run company will start drilling at
Block-26 in the Benguela Bay off Angola’s southern coast and
plans to start tapping reserves off Namibia, according to a
statement sent by e-mail today. Petrobras, as the Rio de
Janeiro-based company is known, operates and holds a 30 percent
stake in the block.  Oil companies are lining up to explore reserves in Angolan
deep waters because they are “believed to be analogous to pre-
salt Brazil,” Tim Dodson, vice president for exploration at
 Statoil ASA (STL) , said in a statement today.  BP Plc , Statoil,  Repsol
YPF SA (REP) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  were among companies that
won licenses to drill in Angola’s pre-salt area today.  The fields are known as pre-salt because oil is located
below layers of salt under the seabed. In Brazilian waters the
salt layer is two kilometers (1.2 miles) thick.  Petrobras plans to invest $224.7 billion through 2015 as it
prepares to tap the pre-salt reserves, which included the
biggest discovery in the Americas in the past three decades.  The Brazilian company also said in the statement that it
forecasts at least 12 rigs will start operating in Brazil next
year.  Petrobras rose 3 percent to 21.76 reais at 3:28 p.m. in Sao
Paulo trading. It’s down 20 percent this year, compared with a
19 percent drop in the benchmark Bovespa index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  