-- Philippine Bonds Rise Before Budget Data; Peso Gains on Inflows
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2011-12-20T08:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/philippine-bonds-gain-before-budget-data-peso-little-changed.html
Philippine 10-year bonds rose
following an upgrade to the country’s credit-rating outlook and
before the government reports its budget balance for November
this week. The peso advanced.  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook for the Philippines
last week, citing “strong external liquidity and signs of
improving growth prospects.” The company’s long-term foreign-
currency rating of BB is two levels below investment grade. The
10-month  budget deficit  was 74.3 billion pesos ($1.7 billion),
compared with 270.3 billion pesos a year earlier, the government
reported on Nov. 30.  “There’s no reason for  interest rates  to eventually go up
given the positive macroeconomic fundamentals surrounding the
government finances,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market
strategist at Banco de Oro Unibank Inc., the Philippines’
largest lender.  The yield on the government’s 5.75 percent bonds due
November 2021 fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point,
to 5.548 percent in  Manila , according to noon fixing prices from
Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp. That’s the lowest level for
a benchmark 10-year note since at least 1998, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The fiscal deficit probably widened in November as the
government paid bonuses and increased spending on public works,
Budget Secretary Butch Abad told reporters on Dec. 16.  Money Sent Home  The peso appreciated on speculation remittances from
Filipinos working overseas picked up before Christmas. The
currency climbed 0.3 percent to 43.872 per dollar at the close
in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched
44.323 on Dec. 15, the weakest level since Jan. 31.  “There were last-minute flows from remittances,” Banco de
Oro Unibank’s Ravelas said.  Money sent home by Philippine citizens abroad may have
risen in November and may sustain that trend in December,
central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in Manila
yesterday.  Remittances , which account for 10 percent of the
 Philippines ’ $200 billion economy, increased at a slower pace in
October, rising 6.2 percent from a year earlier, compared with
an increase of 8.4 percent the previous month, the central bank
said on Dec. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  