-- Pierce Sparks ‘Space’; Idiots Rule in ‘Shlemiel’: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2011-12-20T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/pierce-sparks-space-idiots-rule-in-shlemiel-jeremy-gerard.html
David Hyde Pierce and Rosie Perez
are a match made in comedy heaven, he the dour fussbudget, she
the force of nature who will not be deterred.  If that sounds like the setup for an “Odd Couple” redux,
well Molly Smith Metzler could do worse than  Neil Simon  as role
model. Her play, “Close Up Space,” is the kind of zinger machine
with heart that once filled Broadway theaters at matinee time
and sent the paying customers home with a smile.  Hyde Pierce is Paul, a book editor and grammar pedant who
can summon wrath worthy of Lewis Black over an Oxford comma.
Perez is Vanessa Finn Adams, his best-selling author and meal
ticket, who rather loves serial commas, not to mention abject
fealty and available sex.  Vanessa, sorry to say, is tangential to the very slim plot
of “Close Up Space,” which refers to both the proof-reader’s
mark and -- need I say it? -- Paul’s extreme diffidence,
particularly as it pertains to his daughter, Harper (Colby
Minifie), prone to outrageous attention-getting acts since the
death of her mother some years ago.  “Close Up Space” is a motley of quirksome characters
brought together less by circumstance than by authorial whimsy.
Also orbiting elliptically around Paul are Bailey (Jessica
DiGiovanni), the new intern from Vassar, and Steve (Michael
Chernus) the touchy-feely office manager who has camped out in
the foyer for want of living space. He needs a hug.  Reality Check  Vanessa is the reality check (a terrifying thought) and
Perez plays her to the hilt, whipping the moldering widower into
action to reclaim his daughter’s love.  Performed without intermission on Todd Rosenthal’s cozy,
arcadian-windowed set, “Close Up Space” comes perilously close
to wearing out its welcome, especially for the wackiness-averse.
Director Leigh Silverman deftly keeps the action unfolding at a
clip. And how many plays feature in a critical role an opaque
projector (the better for Paul to demonstrate his blue-pencil
prowess)? The man does not want to know from Power Point.  Through Feb. 5, 2012 at City Center Stage I, 131 W. 55th
St. Information: +1-212-581-1212;
 http://www.manhattantheatreclub.com 
Rating: **1/2  ‘Shlemiel the First’  If you’ve had it up to here with dopey Christmas TV
specials and the same three carols poisoning the atmosphere,
“Shlemiel the First” offers the perfect antidote: dopey Jewish
comedy.  Robert Brustein, eminent critic and founder of two of the
country’s most important resident theaters, cooked up this stone
soup in 1994. The story comes from Isaac Bashevis Singer’s “The
Fools of Chelm and Their History,” one of many folkloric
accounts of the real Polish city of Chelm and its infamously
provincial Jewish community. In other words, a twofer -- an
extended Polish Jewish joke.  Brustein enlisted for the project three brilliant
collaborators: lyricist Arnold Weinstein, composer Hankus Netsky
and director-choreographer David Gordon.  The story concerns Shlemiel (Michael Iannucci), dispatched
by the great thinkers to spread the word that Chelm is home to
the world’s wisest rabbis. Shlemiel gets quickly turned around
and is convinced that the town he has returned to is a second
Chelm, right down to the woman who foolishly thinks he’s her
wife.  The touring company production at NYU’s Skirball Center is
somewhat more like a shadow Chelm than the real thing (I saw the
original, and it was delicious). But the story still has its
rough charms and the klezmer orchestra, under the precise
direction of Zalmen Mlotek, is joyous.  Through Dec. 31 at the Skirball Center, 566 LaGuardia Pl.
Information: +1-866-811-4111;  http://www.nyuskirball.org .
Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 