-- Ping An Plans $4.1 Billion Bond Sale as Solvency Declines After Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-21T05:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ping-an-insurance-board-approves-sale-of-as-much-as-26-billion-yuan-bonds.html
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (601318) ,
 China ’s second-biggest insurer, said it plans to sell as much as
26 billion yuan ($4.1 billion) of bonds after business expansion
brought down its capital adequacy.  The six-year convertible bonds, with a coupon of no more
than 3 percent, will be used to bolster working capital, the
company said yesterday in a  statement  to the  Shanghai Stock
Exchange . The bonds will be sold in the so-called A-share market
for yuan-denominated securities traded on China exchanges. The
sale, passed by its board, will be voted on by shareholders on
Feb. 8 and is subject to regulatory approvals.  Ping An “urgently needs a blood infusion” after
announcing a 20 billion yuan  capital (2318)  injection into its Shenzhen
Development Bank Co. unit and a 5 billion yuan equity boost to
its life-insurance arm, Industrial Securities Co. said in a
report today. Premium growth also lowered its solvency ratio to
a level close to regulatory limits, the brokerage said. The
ratio, which measures an insurer’s ability to settle claims, may
rise to 194.9 percent from 170.7 percent at the end of October,
if the bonds are all converted into stock, the company said.  Ping An fell 2.4 percent to 35.44 yuan in Shanghai as of
1:47 p.m. local time, extending this year’s decline to 37
percent. The company’s Hong Kong-traded shares dropped 3.3
percent today.  Limiting Impact  Ping An doesn’t have any separate share offering plans
besides the bond sale, President Alex Ren said on a conference
call today. The company doesn’t rule out subordinated bond sales
by its units, according to Chief Financial Officer Jason Yao.  “The company has opted to launch its fundraising plan when
its share price is low, limiting the impact,” Shao Ziqin and
Tong Chengdun, Shenzhen-based analysts at Guosen Securities Co.,
said in a report today. The earlier-than-expected fundraising
plan removes a key concern for Ping An shares, which “will help
improve investor expectations,” they said.  The Shenzhen-based insurer said in August it will spend as
much as 20 billion yuan to buy more shares in  Shenzhen
Development Bank (000001) , adding to a 52 percent stake in the lender to
balance its growth at banking, insurance and asset-management
operations. Premiums income jumped 33 percent in the first nine
months of this year.  Solvency Pressures  Chinese insurers may be subject to dividend payout
restrictions when solvency ratios drop below 150 percent, and
may be ordered to submit plans to prevent the gauge from falling
below 100 percent, when the regulator can freeze approvals for
new branches, curb management pay and restrict investment.  Ping An can only maintain its solvency ratio at around 150
percent in the next two years without the fundraising plan,
according to Guosen Securities. The company’s third-quarter net
income fell 44 percent from a year earlier to 1.76 billion yuan
as stock-market declines cut investment income, according to an
Oct. 26 filing.  The bond sale is likely to complete in the third quarter of
next year or later, and conversions into equity won’t happen
until at least six months afterwards, according to Ren.  It’s “completely possible” that the  China Insurance
Regulatory Commission  may revise rules to allow proceeds from
convertible bond sales to be used in the calculation of solvency
ratios, instead of after conversions into stock under current
regulations, he said. That would give an early boost to Ping
An’s solvency from the debt issuance, he added.  “Convertibles are one of the most effective tools for
raising capital in a volatile market,” Ping An said in an e-
mail statement yesterday. In China, “investors are relatively
enthusiastic about the instrument,” it said.  Ping An doesn’t have plans for overseas acquisitions at
this stage as the company focuses on the domestic market, Ren
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in  Shanghai  at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Fellman at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net  