-- Polish Core Inflation Quickens to Fastest in Almost 10 Years
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 2011-12-20T17:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/polish-core-inflation-quickens-to-fastest-in-almost-10-years-1-.html
Poland’s  core inflation  accelerated
to the fastest pace since April 2002, complicating central bank
efforts to promote economic growth as a weaker zloty stokes
price growth.  Core inflation , which excludes volatile food and fuel
prices, rose 3 percent from a year earlier in November, compared
with 2.8 percent the previous month, the central bank said
today, matching the 3 percent median estimate of 26 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Core inflation was 0.3 percent from the
previous month.  The central bank has kept its benchmark  interest rate  at
4.5 percent since June after raising borrowing costs four times
in the first six month to bring inflation toward its 2.5 percent
target. Economic growth in the European Union’s biggest eastern
member, the only one to dodge recession in 2009, may slow to 2.5
percent in 2012 from about 4 percent this year as the euro
region’s debt crisis damps demand for Polish exports, the
government has forecast.  Today’s figure “creates real problems for the Monetary
Policy Council,”  Maciej Reluga , chief economist at Bank
Zachodni WBK, said by phone. “Growth is slowing, but monetary
policy stimulus is impossible because of the high inflation.”  Consumer prices grew 4.8 percent from a year earlier in
November, exceeding economist projections. The zloty has fallen
more than 10 percent against the euro over the last six months,
the second-worst performing currency worldwide, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. It closed 0.7 percent higher today
at 4.5232 per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net 
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  