-- Rand Gains as Spanish Debt Auction, German Confidence Boost Euro
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2011-12-20T15:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/rand-strengthens-for-fourth-day-against-dollar-gaining-the-most-in-a-week.html
The rand appreciated the most in a
week against the dollar, tracking the euro’s gain, after  Spain ’s
borrowing costs dropped and German business confidence
unexpectedly rose for a second month.  South Africa’s currency strengthened as much as 2.1
percent, a fourth day of gains, before paring its rise to 2
percent at 8.2257 as of 4:44 p.m. in Johannesburg. The euro
edged up 0.8 percent versus the dollar to 1.3122, its biggest
jump this month.  Spain sold 5.64 billion euros ($7.36 billion) of bills,
more than the maximum target, and its borrowing costs dropped as
the  European Central Bank  prepared to start offering banks
unlimited three-year loans later today. The Ifo institute’s
 business climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
rose to 107.2 from 106.6 in November, the Munich-based institute
said today. Economists expected a drop to 106, the median
forecast of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News survey showed. The
euro area is  South Africa ’s largest trading partner.  “I am seeing some positive signs emerging from  Europe  and
as long as bond yields continue dropping we could see more
recovery for emerging market currencies,”  George Glynos , an
economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, said by phone.
“Generally speaking, the dollar is due a correction.”  The rand has declined 19 percent this year, the worst
performer out of more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  Risks Remain  While the rand is proving “more resilient” than it might
have been in the past, it will “struggle to rally back to
levels more in line with South African fundamentals whilst a
major credit crunch is unfolding abroad,” Glynos wrote in e-
mailed comments today.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday substantial risks
to the economy remain and the law forbids him from increasing
government bond purchases to fight the crisis.  South Africa’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 advanced for a
fourth day, driving the yield 2.2 basis points, or 0.022
percentage point lower to 6.888 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  