-- Australia Weathering European Debt Crisis Recalls 2009 Resilience: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2011-12-20T09:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/rba-sees-global-slowdown-as-european-risk-triggers-rate-cut-minutes-show.html
Australia ’s central bank said
resource investment is helping the economy ride out  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis, sending the local currency higher as
traders reduced bets on the scale of future interest-rate cuts.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowered borrowing costs Dec.
6 because of the “non-trivial possibility of a very sharp
contraction” in Europe, according to minutes of the meeting
released today. Policy makers had seen no “strong need” to
reduce rates based on the domestic outlook, they showed.  The Australian dollar advanced as the central bank said
“solid growth” among trading partners is supporting an
expansion in the only Group of 10 nation to avoid the 2009
worldwide recession. Companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  are
developing resource projects to meet demand for  iron ore , coal
and gas from China, the world’s second-biggest economy and
Australia’s biggest export market.  “The December cut was the RBA’s insurance policy,” said
 Paul Brennan , a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney.
“The minutes show that the decision to cut  interest rates  was
not taken lightly. Instead, there appears to have been some
deliberation about the need to cut rates at all.”  Traders pared bets on the chances of a 50 basis-point
reduction at the next meeting in February to 36 percent after
the release of the minutes, from 42 percent yesterday, interbank
cash-rate futures showed. Australia’s three-year government bond
yield rose 2 basis points to 3.01 percent as of 2 p.m. in Sydney.  Dollar Gains  The Australian dollar gained 0.4 percent to 99.34 U.S.
cents as of 4:17 p.m. in Sydney after dropping 0.9 percent
yesterday. The currency rose 0.3 percent to 77.47 yen.  Asian stocks rebounded from a three-week low as South
Korean shares pared yesterday’s losses stemming from the
reported death of North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il . The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index added 0.3 percent at 6:24 p.m. in  Tokyo  and
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures gained 0.8 percent.  Other reports in the Asia-Pacific region today showed
exports in  Thailand  fell 12.4 percent in November and  Taiwan ’s
overseas orders gained 2.54 percent from a year earlier,
reflecting a weakening in demand.  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report may show housing
starts last month rose to a 635,000 annual rate, a separate
survey showed.  Australian Growth  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board reduced rates by a
quarter percentage point on Nov. 1 and again this month to 4.25
percent.  A day after the December policy meeting, a government
report showed Australia’s economy grew faster than estimated
last quarter on  consumer spending  and mining-driven investment.
Gross domestic product rose 1 percent in the three months ended
Sept. 30, after growing a revised 1.4 percent the prior quarter,
the fastest pace in four years, a Bureau of Statistics showed.  Resource projects in Australia valued at A$456 billion
($453 billion), fueled by companies such as  BHP Billiton , have
cushioned a slump in manufacturing and services hit by a record
currency and subdued consumer spending. The Aussie reached
$1.1081 on July 27, the most since it was freely floated in 1983.  Policy makers said the case this month for lowering
borrowing costs revolved around the “downside risks” posed by
Europe to the global economy, the minutes showed. “The risks
had, if anything, increased though the timing and magnitude of
any effects that might flow from them remained very difficult to
predict,” according to the record.  Jobless Rate  Australia is headed for its worst annual jobs growth in 15
years and the  unemployment rate  advanced last month to 5.3
percent, matching the highest level this year.  “Liaison had indicated significant caution in hiring
intentions, with firms waiting for evidence of growth in demand
before looking to increase staff levels,” policy makers said in
the minutes, referring to the domestic economy. Most companies
“expected wage pressures to remain contained,” they said.  Europe’s fiscal turmoil is cutting demand in  China ’s
biggest export market, and a Chinese government campaign to rein
in property prices is threatening home sales and construction.
China’s economic growth cooled to 9.1 percent last quarter, the
least in more than two years, and an increase in exports in
November was the weakest since 2009 excluding seasonal
distortions.  “The poor outcomes in Europe were weighing on Asian
exports, and growth in domestic demand had moderated somewhat,”
the minutes said.  European Turmoil  Europe’s troubles have weighed on the so-called Aussie
dollar in recent weeks. The world’s fifth most-traded currency
has fallen about 10 percent since its July peak on concern
Greece would default and trigger a repeat of the credit freeze
that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  In the minutes, the RBA noted “no signs of strain in local
money markets through November and banks had also been able to
access short-term offshore markets with relative ease.”  Payrolls  in Australia gained 44,700 through the first 11
months of this year, heading for the smallest annual growth
since 1996 after a record 362,300 increase in 2010, government
data showed this month. The report contrasted with figures
showing the biggest six-month gain in economic growth since
March 2007.  “Given the expectation that inflation would be consistent
with the target over the next couple of years, members felt that
there was scope for a modest reduction in the cash rate,” the
minutes showed. The central bank aims to keep domestic inflation
in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  