-- RBS May Consider U.S. Citizens Unit Sale on U.K.-First Strategy
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2011-12-20T13:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/rbs-may-consider-u-s-citizens-unit-sale-on-u-k-first-strategy.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, may consider selling
Citizens Financial Group Inc., a U.S. unit, after Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the lender should be more
U.K.-focused.  The U.S. constitutes the Edinburgh-based bank’s second-
biggest market after the U.K., accounting for 22 percent of
revenue at the end of 2010, or 6.9 billion pounds ($10.8
billion). RBS owns Citizens, a consumer and commercial unit it
bought in 1988 and which generates 9 percent of revenue, and
 Stamford , Connecticut-based RBS Securities Inc., an investment-
banking unit.  “We believe RBS’s future is as a major U.K. bank with the
majority of its business in the U.K. and in personal, SME and
corporate banking,” Osborne told the  House of Commons  in London
yesterday.  Osborne’s statement “will encourage some to expect perhaps
the sale of the U.S. retail and commercial banking business of
the group, Citizens,” Deutsche Bank AG analysts led by London-
based Jason Napier said in a note to clients today.  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , 51, has cut the
bank’s assets by about 1 trillion pounds since he took over from
 Fred Goodwin  in 2008 as the lender neared collapse.  Citizens forms part of the bank’s so-called core unit. An
RBS spokesman declined to comment on the possibility of a U.S.
disposal.  Insurance Sale  The bank’s British insurance unit, which includes Direct
Line and Churchill, must be sold by 2013 to comply with a
European Union ruling following the bank’s receipt of 45.5
billion pounds in state aid from 2008 to 2009. It’s also
designated a core unit.  RBS’s “non-core’ assets, those it’s said publicly it
intends to sell, are worth 153.9 billion pounds, or 11 percent
of its 2010 balance sheet.  Past disposals include the 2010 sale of more than 300
branches for 1.65 billion pounds to  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s
biggest bank.  U.K. regulatory change and alterations in client demand
mean the RBS investment bank, Global Banking and Markets, “will
have to shrink further in order to be sustainable,” Hester said
last month.  The government, which owns 83 percent of RBS, said
yesterday that the unit would be significantly reduced as it
scaled back “riskier activities.”  The ICB proposals, which the government supports, mean
banks will no longer be allowed to use their consumer units to
provide cheap funding for investment-banking divisions. An RBS
official declined to comment on the analyst report.  RBS is also selling a 1.4 billion-pound portfolio of
commercial mortgages to  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , providing as much
as 600 million pounds of debt to help fund the deal, according
to three people with knowledge of the deal in November.  RBS also provided a loan in September to help Patron
Capital Ltd. purchase 24 U.K. hotels that the bank had seized
after Jarvis Hotels Ltd. defaulted on loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  