-- RBS Investing Cuts, U.K. Bank Rules, MF Global: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-12-20T13:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/rbs-investing-cuts-u-k-bank-rules-mf-global-compliance.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer George
Osborne backed a planned scaling-back of  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) ’s investment operations as he sought to reassure
voters that the U.K. is acting to prevent future bank bailouts.  RBS’s plan to wind down or sell part of its investment
bank, which has already cut its balance sheet in half, should go
further, allowing the Edinburgh-based lender to return to full
private ownership, the chancellor said, as he gave his backing
to recommendations of the Independent Commission on Banking led
by John Vickers to make the industry safer.  While yesterday’s announcement won’t speed up the eventual
sale of the bank, it’s part of Osborne’s plan for the government
to “exit” from a banking industry that has received support
and guarantees of 850 million pounds ($1.3 trillion) since 2008.  Osborne told lawmakers that the paring-down of RBS’s
investment operations will let the U.K.’s biggest state-
controlled bank concentrate on lending to individuals and
companies at home, reducing its riskiest activities that require
greater capital to make them safe.  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , 51, has said
the investment bank is unsustainable at its current size because
of regulatory change proposed by the Vickers commission and
because of shifts in investor demand. The unit, which employs
about 19,000 people in total, reported a 29 percent revenue drop
in the third quarter, weighing on the ability of the whole bank
to be returned to private hands.  Having a smaller investment bank diminishes the fallout
Osborne faces from voters angry at the bonuses paid to top
bankers as he drives through the biggest public-spending cuts in
more than half a century because of the financial crisis. Prime
Minister David Cameron’s government has been struggling to
convince voters that it can tame banks’ excessive risk taking
and control high pay in the City,  London ’s financial district,
as living standards elsewhere decline.  For more, click here and see Interviews/Speeches, below.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Considers Dodd-Frank Rules for Reporting Swaps Block Trades  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission is
considering setting the reporting delay for traders to reveal
prices for block trades of standardized swaps available on
exchanges or so-called swap execution facilities.  CFTC commissioners are scheduled to meet in Washington
today to vote on final rules for “real-time” reporting of such
trades, one of a number of provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act
designed to make the $708 trillion global over-the-counter
derivatives market more transparent.  Dodd-Frank required the CFTC and the Securities and
Exchange Commission to establish regulations to reduce risk in
the derivatives markets, where largely unregulated trades helped
fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The commission voted 3-2 on Nov.
19, 2010 to propose a 15-minute delay for reporting the block
trades of standardized swaps, meant as a window to give traders
a chance to hedge the big trades prior to them going public.  Banks, through industry groups, argued that the proposal
for a 15-minute limit wasn’t enough time to protect them from
competitors taking advantage of their need to hedge. Banks use
hedging, which involves offsetting trades with opposite
transactions, to shield themselves from losses.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, has
said it intends to register as a swap-execution facility.  Fed Rules Redefining Bank Oversight Said to Be Issued This Week  The Federal Reserve will issue capital and liquidity rules
this week reshaping supervision of the riskiest, largest banks
and those with more than $50 billion in assets, a government
official familiar with the matter said.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Fed to impose heightened
standards including stricter capital levels for systemic banks
with over $50 billion in assets and non-bank systemic
institutions. The stricter standards also target liquidity, risk
management structure, credit reporting, concentration limits,
stress tests, contingent capital and short-term debt limits.  The Fed’s rules will not be more stringent than
international capital standards agreed to in Basel, Switzerland.
Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo cited a “goal of congruence”
between the Basel standards and the Fed’s work on rules under
Dodd-Frank, which overhauls banking regulation, in a June 3
speech.  The Basel Committee on Bank Supervision agreed earlier this
year that global banks such as  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Inc. and Deutsche
Bank AG whose failure could send shock waves throughout the
financial system should apply a systemic risk surcharge of 1
percentage point to 2.5 percentage points.  BOE’s King Says FPC Needs Proper Powers to Tackle Systemic Risk  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said the Financial
Policy Committee needs sufficient powers to ensure it can deal
with risks to financial stability.  “The committee’s ability to take actions to mitigate
systemic risks will hinge on the powers granted to it by
Parliament,” King said in the forward to a  research paper  on
macroprudential tools published by the central bank in London
today. “Without the right instruments at its disposal, the
committee will not be able to take prompt, effective action.”  The FPC, part of a regulatory overhaul by Britain’s
government, is debating which tools it will need to promote
financial stability once its powers are finally established. It
said this month that risks to U.K. financial stability from the
euro-area debt crisis have increased and “stronger action” is
needed to make banks more resilient to potential shocks.  King said today that the absence of a proper authority to
deal with potential risks was a “significant contributory
factor to the present financial crisis,” adding that the FPC
will “fill that void.”  In the paper, Bank of England and Financial Services
Authority officials examined 11 possible macroprudential tools
for the FPC, covering three areas: the balance sheets of
financial institutions, terms and conditions of some
transactions and market structures. The central bank is seeking
feedback on the proposals and will make recommendations to the
U.K. Treasury after the March 16 meeting of the FPC.  For more, click here.  Hungary to Approve Central Bank Law With Changes, Lazar Says  Hungary will approve a new central bank law this year,
Janos Lazar, head of the ruling party’s parliamentary group,
told reporters yesterday in Budapest.  The governing Fidesz party will back changes to the draft
that address concerns of the European Central Bank, Lazar said.
The ECB last week said the legislation may undermine the Magyar
Nemzeti Bank’s independence.  The ruling party also backs approving an amendment this
year that would make it possible to merge the central bank and
the financial regulator, Lazar said.  Hungary said amendments to a central bank bill will meet
most European Central Bank requirements as the European Union
stepped up pressure on the government to change the legislation.  Lawmakers will automatically adopt 13 out of 15 proposals
from the ECB, while pressing ahead with a plan to expand the
number of monetary policy makers, Antal Rogan, the head of
parliament’s Economy Committee, told the legislature in Budapest
today.  For more, click here.  Courts  MF Global’s U.K. Staff Face ‘Threats of Violence,’ KPMG Says  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MF) ’s U.K. employees have received
threats amid claims the broker misused client funds before it
collapsed, the company’s administrators told a London court.  KPMG LLP, administrators of MF Global’s U.K. unit, asked a
judge for permission to remove the names of employees from court
filings for their protection.  The threats may have been because of the association with
MF Global UK Ltd.’s New York-based parent company, where there
is “speculation as to the misapplication of client monies,”
KPMG’s lawyer Adam al-Attar told the court. High Court Judge
David Richards approved the application and made an order for
the redactions this morning.  In the U.S. bankruptcy, trustee James Giddens has estimated
that $1.2 billion is missing from MF Global’s segregated
customer funds, which are supposed to be protected. Jon S.
Corzine, the former chairman and chief executive officer,
apologized to clients and investors for their losses at a
hearing before U.S lawmakers last week.  Separately, a federal judge in Manhattan is handling nine
lawsuits against Corzine, according to a court filing.  The plaintiffs, investors who allege that Corzine and other
company officials made misleading statements about the company’s
financial condition before its Oct. 31 collapse, are seeking
class-action, or group, status for their suits.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  has been combining the
cases into one and he now has consolidated nine of them,
according to yesterday’s filing.  Madoff’s Ex-Controller Pleads Guilty to Role in Ponzi Scheme  Bernard Madoff ’s ex-controller, Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz,
pleaded guilty to aiding her ex-employer’s massive Ponzi scheme.  In a hearing in Manhattan federal court yesterday,
Cotellessa-Pitz admitted to falsifying documents to aid the
fraud and to deceiving U.S. regulators. She has agreed to
cooperate with the government. The charges carry as long as 50
years in prison, prosecutors said in a letter to U.S District
Judge Laura Taylor Swain last week.  Madoff, who pleaded guilty to fraud charges, is serving 150
years in prison for the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  Irving Picard , the trustee, sued Cotellessa-Pitz and her
husband, Thomas Pitz, in 2010, seeking the return of money he
claimed they received from the fraud. Cotellessa-Pitz “played a
key role in disguising the fraudulent Ponzi scheme from
investors and investigators” while she worked for Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC, Picard said in the complaint.  Cotellessa-Pitz was responsible for closing the company’s
books each month, and for preparing annual financial statements
and reports for filing with the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority and the SEC, Picard said.  Cotellessa-Pitz was also supervisor of the firm’s anti-
money laundering program, according to Picard.  The criminal case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-CR-228, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
bankruptcy case is Picard v. Cotellessa-Pitz, 10-4213, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Supreme Court to Issue Canada Regulator Ruling on Dec. 22  Canada’s Supreme Court will rule Dec. 22 whether the
federal government’s plans to create a national securities
regulator are constitutional.  The Ottawa-based Supreme Court  announced  it would rule on
the issue in an e-mailed advisory.  The ruling will determine whether Finance Minister Jim
Flaherty can press ahead with his five-year effort to set up a
nationwide regulator that he argues will make it easier for
companies to access capital and better protect investors.  Quebec, home to Canada’s derivatives market, and other
provinces have refused to join the plan. Ontario, home to the
financial hub of Toronto, supports the effort.  Canada is the only member of the Group of Seven nations
without a national securities watchdog. Flaherty released draft
legislation last year to set up a single oversight body and
submitted it to the Supreme Court of Canada for a ruling on
whether it’s constitutional.  A government-appointed panel concluded in 2009 that
replacing the existing system of 13 regional agencies would
reduce costs and uncertainty for issuers and investors. The
national body would also bolster the country’s ability to
respond to market changes and safeguard against systemic risks
that make financial markets across the country vulnerable to a
bad decision by one of the provinces, the panel found.  Clay Capital’s James Turner Pleads Guilty in Insider Case  James F. Turner II, the chief investment officer of hedge
fund Clay Capital Management LLC, pleaded guilty to his role in
an insider-trading scheme that prosecutors said made more than
$2.5 million in illicit profit.  Turner, 44, illegally traded in shares of  Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) ,
 Moldflow Corp . and  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , he admitted in federal
court in Newark,  New Jersey . Clay Capital operated the Clay Fund
from January 2007 to December 2010, according to a Securities
and Exchange Commission complaint filed Aug. 31.  Turner admitted yesterday he got tips from Scott Vollmar,
his brother-in-law and a director of business development at
Autodesk, and from Scott Robarge, a college friend and manager
at Salesforce.com.  Turner pleaded guilty to one count of securities fraud and
faces as many as 20 years in prison when U.S. District Judge
Dennis Cavanaugh sentences him on April 16. Joseph Bush,
Turner’s attorney, declined to comment after the plea hearing.  Vollmar, of Florence, Oregon, and Robarge, of Louisville,
Colorado, previously pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit
securities fraud. Turner, Vollmar and Robarge were sued by the
SEC over the scheme.  The case is U.S. v. Turner, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Newark).  Interviews/Speeches  Osborne Comments on Bank Capital Rules, Ring-Fencing, Cost  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said banks
may be exempted from some loss-absorbing capital rules if “they
can demonstrate they do not pose a threat to U.K. taxpayers.”  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  have been
lobbying against the rules.  Speaking before lawmakers in the House of Commons in London
yesterday, Osborne said the British government backs the plan
put forward by the Independent Commission on Banking, headed by
John Vickers. In particular, he mentioned its recommendations on
competition in banking.  “The banking sector is dominated by a handful of large
banks; we need new banks to enter the market to provide
consumers and businesses with new choice,” Osborne told the
lawmakers. He said he welcomed the choice of the Co-operative
Bank as the preferred bidder for branches being divested by
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   Osborne vowed to put forward legislation in the first few
months of next year to implement the plan by the ICB to force
banks to separate investment and consumer businesses. The law
will be changed by 2015 and the new rules will be operational no
later than 2019, he said in an effort to solve what he’s called
the “British problem” of having to use taxpayers’ money to
bail out the financial sector.  The solution proposed three months ago by the panel led by
Vickers, a former Bank of England chief economist, is for banks
to build firebreaks between their consumer and investment
operations and boost the amount of loss-absorbing equity and
debt they hold.  Changes to banking regulation will cost banks as much as 8
billion pounds and will be implemented in stages by 2019,
Osborne said.  For more, click here.  Wheeler Says New U.K. Bank Regulation Will Hurt Profits  Christopher Wheeler , a banking analyst at  Mediobanca SpA (MB) ,
discusses proposed changes to U.K. financial regulation. While
U.K. banks can afford the restructuring, “profitability will be
affected,” Wheeler said. This is “another Lehman Brothers
moment,” said Wheeler, “because we don’t know what the
impact” of the restructurings will be.  He talked with Caroline Hyde on Bloomberg Television’s
“Last Word.”  For the video, click here.  SEC Sending ‘Message’ to Corporate Heads, Levitt Says  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said by bringing a case against former
executives of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the Securities and
Exchange Commission is “sending a strong message to corporate
leaders.” Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom
Keene on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Miller Says Wall Street Mirrors Main Street on Job Cuts  Paul Miller , managing director and banking analyst with  FBR
Capital Markets Corp. , talked about the impact of the European
sovereign-debt crisis on the U.S. economy and banking
regulation.  Miller, who spoke with Lisa Murphy and Dominic Chu on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop,” also discussed job cuts
by Wall Street banks, investment strategy and the outlook for
the industry.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 