-- Real Climbs as German Confidence Boosts Growth Outlook; Rate Yields Fall
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2011-12-20T20:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/real-climbs-third-day-in-four-as-german-confidence-boosts-growth-outlook.html
Brazil ’s real gained after a report
showed German business confidence unexpectedly rose this month,
signaling  Europe ’s largest economy is weathering the debt
crisis.  The real advanced 1.2 percent to 1.846 per dollar at 6:47
p.m. in Sao Paulo, rebounding from a drop to 1.8673 yesterday.
Yields on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2013 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 9.88 percent.  The real strengthened along with most other emerging-market
currencies as European stocks gained after German business
confidence climbed in December for a second month. The report
boosted investors’ appetite for higher-yielding assets amid
speculation a stronger global economy will increase demand for
Brazilian exports such as  iron ore  and sugar.  “The currency is following the external market,” Jose Carlos Amado, a currency trader at Renascenca DTVM Ltda. in Sao
Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “This indicator from
 Germany  brought some calm to the market.”  Yields on most interest-rate futures contracts fell after
Brazil created fewer jobs than forecast in November, prompting
bets the central bank may accelerate its pace of interest-rate
cuts.  Brazil’s economy created 42,735 government-registered jobs
in November, the Labor Ministry said today on its website. The
result compares with a forecast of 80,000 jobs, according to the
median estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The job numbers helped the drop in futures yields,”
Mariano Cirello, chief investment officer at Mapfre DTVM SA in
 Sao Paulo , said in a phone interview.  Brazil’s central bank last month trimmed rates for a third
straight meeting, to 11 percent, to shield Brazil from the
European debt crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  