-- Record Coal Deals Leave Whitehaven as Target as Prices Climb: Commodities
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2011-12-21T06:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/record-coal-deals-whittle-targets-as-prices-climb-commodities.html
Record coal deals this year have
slashed the number of potential targets in Australia, the
world’s largest exporter. The combination of  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) 
and  Aston Resources Ltd. (AZT)  looms as the last prize standing.  Rising demand in  China  and India has pushed mergers and
acquisitions globally to a record $34.5 billion this year, with
192 companies acquired, compared with $30.3 billion last year.
Australian deals reached an all-time high this month when
Whitehaven agreed to buy billionaire  Nathan Tinkler ’s Aston, to
create a company valued at A$5.1 billion ($5.1 billion).  “There’s not much left really,”  Peter Chilton , who helps
manage about $790 million at Constellation Capital Management
LLC in Sydney, said by phone. “The big one could be, assuming
Whitehaven and Aston do get together, somebody bids for the
whole lot.”  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (1171) , China’s fourth-biggest producer,
plans to buy  Gloucester Coal Ltd. (GCL)  for at least $2 billion, a
person with knowledge of the matter said this week, bringing the
number of deals in Australia to a record $13.5 billion, headed
by  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) ’s $4 billion takeover of  Macarthur Coal
Ltd. (MCC)  in July. Producers are seeking to expand as demand from
power utilities and steelmakers rises, while asset prices drop.  New Hope Corp., with a market value of A$4.7 billion, said
last month it was in talks with several bidders. Tata, India’s
largest business group, may bid for the miner to secure thermal-
coal mines, three people familiar with the plan said Nov. 5. JSW
Steel Ltd., India’s third-largest producer, may also make an
offer, two people with knowledge of the plan said Oct. 24.  Rising Prices  Prices for coking coal, used to make steel, may rise 50
percent next year to $291 a metric ton, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said in a Nov. 23 report. World imports may gain 8.5 percent in
2012 to 295 million tons, Australia’s Bureau of Resources and
Energy Economics said Dec. 13.  “The outlook for coking coal prices during the first half
of 2012 has improved,”  Barclays Capital  said in a Dec. 20
report, citing a rebound in steel prices.  International thermal coal prices may average $125 a ton
next year, up 3 percent from this year, Helen Lau, a Hong Kong-
based analyst with UOB Kay Hian, said by phone yesterday. Global
imports of thermal coal may increase 5.2 percent next year to
581 million tons led by gains in India, Australia’s bureau said.  The value of  mining companies (BWMING)  has fallen to the lowest
since July 2010, dropping 35 percent from a high this year,
according to the Bloomberg World Mining Index. The collapse in
equity markets has created a gap between value and stock prices,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said last month.  Doubling Output  The 36-year-old Tinkler, Australia’s youngest billionaire,
will become Whitehaven’s biggest shareholder after also selling
his closely held exploration unit Boardwalk Resources Pty for at
least A$500 million in shares. Tinkler is looking overseas for
his next coal deal, he said in an interview on Dec. 13.  Buying Aston gives Whitehaven control of the Maules Creek
steelmaking coal project, which will more than double the
company’s output by 2016. The combined producer may be an
attractive target for Chinese or Indian companies seeking supply,
Armytage Private Ltd., a Melbourne-based  fund manager , said this
month.  Indian Approach  International Coal Ventures Ltd., a group of Indian state-
backed companies formed to buy overseas coal assets, is one of
two remaining bidders for  Aquila Resources Ltd. (AQA) ’s Washpool coal
mine in Australia, two people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday. The mine is valued at an average of A$269 million,
based on assessments by eight resource analysts, Aquila said
earlier this month.  Last month, Tinkler’s Hunter Ports proposed building a
A$2.5 billion coal export terminal in Newcastle, the world’s
biggest port for thermal coal, to ship the fuel from Aston and
other companies to global markets.  “There is still potential for the merged Aston-Whitehaven
entity to be taken in the future if it proves successful,”  Glyn Lawcock , head of resources research at UBS AG in Sydney, said by
phone. Otherwise, “the only thing left to go for now is
resources in the ground, undeveloped coal resources,” he said,
citing two project developers  Carabella Resources Ltd. (CLR)  and
 Bandanna Energy Ltd. (BND)   Interested Buyers  Carabella, which has a market value of A$155 million, said
in October that it had received “several unsolicited
expressions of interest” in its Grosvenor West project in
Queensland state and had set up a data room for some interested
groups. The project may cost as much as A$1 billion to develop,
according to Helmsec Global Securities Pty. Its shares have
plunged 64 percent in Sydney from a March high to its lowest
yesterday.  In the same month, Bandanna said it remains in talks with
potential parties for a possible sale of the company or its
assets and has recently received approaches from new groups. The
company has a market value of A$288 million.  Cockatoo Coal Ltd. (COK) , with a market value of A$376 million,
is another possible target, Constellation’s Chilton said.  SK
Networks Co. (001740)  was considering an investment in Cockatoo Coal and
was in talks with the Australian company over terms, the South
Korean company said Sept. 23.  Kate McLaughlin, of Fowlstone Communications in Sydney, an
outside spokeswoman for Carabella, said the company doesn’t
comment on market speculation. A spokesman for Cockatoo Coal
wasn’t immediately able to comment when contacted by phone. An
e-mail to Bandanna wasn’t answered.  Falling Values  Bandanna has fallen 75 percent from its high this year on
the Australian stock exchange while Cockatoo Coal shares
declined 33 percent.  While targets may be getting scarcer, global coal
consumption is projected to climb by an annual 2.8 percent in
the six years to 2016, driven by China’s economic growth, the
 International Energy Agency  said last week. Coal prices have
surged on rising demand to feed power stations and steel mills
in China, the world’s largest user of coal, and amid worldwide
production disruptions.  Buying Gloucester would give Yanzhou, which approved its
first debt sale this month, mines and access to ports in
Australia. That would follow its A$3.1 billion acquisition of
Felix Resources Ltd. in 2009, in what was China’s biggest
takeover of an Australian company at the time.  Other smaller coal companies traded in Australia include
Coalspur Mines Ltd., which has a market value of A$923 million
and is developing projects in Canada,  Guildford Coal Ltd. (GUF) , with
early stage assets in Queensland, as well as Stanmore Coal Ltd.  There’s little likelihood of another record coal deal year
in Australia in 2012, according to Andrew Harrington, resources
analyst at Patersons Securities Ltd. in Sydney.  “You can’t even get there if you bought the whole sector
listed on the Australian Stock Exchange,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  