-- Repsol Buys Back 10% Stake as Biggest Investor Hits Loan Deadline
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2011-12-20T15:07:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/repsol-buys-10-of-its-own-stock-from-sacyr-to-help-company-finance-a-loan.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP) , Spain’s largest oil
producer, bought 10 percent of its own shares for about $3.35
billion from its largest stockholder, helping the construction
company repay about half of a syndicated loan due tomorrow.  Repsol paid  Sacyr (SYV)  Vallehermoso SA a 5 percent discount to
yesterday’s price, allowing Sacyr to refinance the balance of
its loan for three years, Repsol Chairman  Antonio Brufau  said
today. Sacyr sold the shares at 21.07 euros apiece, valuing the
discounted stake at 2.57 billion euros ($3.35 billion) and
resulting in a loss for the builder of 940 million euros.  Sacyr had struggled to roll over a 4.9 billion-euro credit
used to buy its 20 percent stake. The deal keeps the shares from
being seized in a foreclosure that would have led banks to sell
the stock on the market, depressing Repsol’s price, analysts
said. Madrid-based Sacyr salvaged half its holding, preserving
one of its main sources of cash. Repsol has a 4.9 percent
dividend yield.  Brufau “prevented a disorderly unwinding of the Sacyr
interest and in that regard it’s a good thing,”  Jason Gammel ,
an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London , said by telephone.
“Given the growth strategy and the investment opportunities
that they have, it’s less likely they’ll hold the position for a
long period of time, but they certainly have the financial cap
to do so.”  Shares Gain  Sacyr jumped as much as 11 percent in Madrid, the most
since August, after trading in the stock resumed this afternoon.
It was up 7.4 percent at 4.325 euros as of 3:58 p.m. local time.
Repsol rose 0.7 percent to 22.33 euros.  Repsol intends to sell the stake “within months” to a
long-term partner that supports its strategy, Chief Financial
Officer Miguel Martinez said today on a call for analysts. It
won’t sell the shares on the market since the deal is aimed at
preventing the holding from weighing on the stock price, Brufau
said at a briefing in Moscow on an unrelated venture.  “We are taking some time, not much, but some time to think
where we place that stake,” Brufau said. “That may be for
financial institutions or to industrial investors, or even
keeping it in our hands because this is a very good
investment.”  Some of the shares may be used to pay dividends, the
company said in a regulatory filing.  Loan Refinancing  Sacyr had borrowed 5.2 billion euros from a syndicate of at
least 25 banks in December 2006 to finance its Repsol investment
as then-Chairman Luis del Rivero sought to hedge the company’s
exposure to  Spain ’s construction industry. It has refinanced
2.45 billion euros of loans, Sacyr said today.  The company paid an average of 26.70 euros for its Repsol
shares, and said today it took a loss of 940 million euros on
the sale, net of costs and tax. Sacyr’s equity amounted to 3.99
billion euros at the end of the third quarter, according to its
earnings report for the period.  The investment had soured as Repsol’s stock tumbled to as
low as 11.64 euros in March 2009 from about 27 euros. Sacyr was
forced to pledge its Testa property unit as additional
collateral in November 2008.  Del Rivero, who became vice chairman of Repsol, agitated
for the  oil company  to boost dividend payments to ease Sacyr’s
financial strain, clashing with Repsol’s Brufau, who chose to
invest in exploration instead.  Repsol had 5.6 billion euros of cash and short-term
securities on its balance sheet at the end of the third quarter.  Del Rivero was fired by Sacyr in October after allying with
 Petroleos Mexicanos , Repsol’s third-biggest investor, to try to
force Brufau to cede. He was replaced with Manuel Manrique.  The alliance with Pemex will now be dissolved, Sacyr said
in a filing. Under the terms of the agreement, the accord is
annulled without penalties should either party sell at least
half of its Repsol shares, a Pemex spokesman said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid   at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  