-- Republican Don Young of Alaska Cleared of Ethics Allegations
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2011-12-20T22:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/republican-don-young-of-alaska-cleared-of-ethics-allegations-1-.html
U.S. Representative Don Young, an
 Alaska  Republican, was cleared of ethics allegations that he
broke rules by accepting excessive contributions to his legal
expense trust fund from a group of companies controlled by one
family.  The House ethics committee said today it wouldn’t
investigate the allegation because Young “did not violate any
provision of the Code of Official Conduct.” Still, the panel
issued revised rules for contributions to legal expense trusts
to clarify how the annual $5,000 limit per individual would be
calculated.  In January, Young’s legal expense trust received $5,000
contributions from each of 12 Louisiana maritime services
companies owned by Gary Chouest, his wife and his five children,
the committee said in its statement.  The contributions didn’t violate House rules because the
contributions by the 12 companies “were permissible under the
committee’s 1996” regulations for legal expense trusts, the
panel said.  “To prevent this situation in the future the committee is
amending” the “regulations to attribute contributions by
certain types of entities,” such as limited liability
corporations, to the entities’ owners, the panel said in its
report.  New Regulations  The new regulations are effective Jan. 1, 2012, and will
apply to all existing and new legal expense trusts that members
are allowed to create to cover legal expenses incurred during
investigations of their official conduct, the panel said.  Young set up his fund in 2008 to pay legal expenses
incurred during a  Justice Department  investigation, according to
the panel’s report. At the time, the Justice Department was
conducting an investigation of political corruption in  Alaska .  On Aug. 4, 2010, Young’s office said in a statement that
the Justice Department’s public integrity section had told the
congressman’s lawyers that he would not be prosecuted.  In a statement released today by his office, Young said,
“I am pleased that the ethics committee confirmed what I have
maintained all along -- I did nothing to violate House rules. I
am glad the inquiry has been completed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  