-- Republican Lawmaker Wants Fed to Focus on Inflation
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2011-12-20T16:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/republican-lawmaker-wants-more-fed-disclosure-inflation-focus.html
Representative Kevin Brady, the top
Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, is drafting
legislation that would focus the Federal Reserve on a single
mandate for price stability, require more transparency and shift
control over  interest rates  away from Washington.  “This financial crisis really has raised a legitimate
question: What is the role of the Fed?” the Texas Republican
said in an interview last week. The debate is happening “not
just among lawmakers but among the public as well.”  Brady and his staff have had preliminary discussions with
other congressional Republicans, and a few weeks ago discussed
the proposal over dinner with William C. Dudley, president of
the New York Fed. Brady said Dudley argued in favor of the so-
called dual mandate, in which Congress requires the Fed to focus
on both full employment and low inflation.  The broader scope “does give them an expanded role and
opportunity to inject themselves in a number of areas,” Brady
said. New York Fed spokesman  Jack Gutt  declined to comment.  Brady intends to introduce the legislation in January or
early February with the aim that it would be co-sponsored by
 Spencer Bachus , the Alabama Republican who chairs the House
Financial Services Committee, which has oversight authority over
the Fed, according to a Republican staff person on the Joint
Economic Committee.  “We haven’t seen the proposal yet, but will certainly give
it attention when the bill is referred to the Financial Services
Committee,” said Jeff Emerson, a spokesman for the House
committee’s Republicans.  Legislation’s Fate  From there, the fate of the legislation probably depends on
whether it is endorsed by the eventual Republican presidential
nominee and the makeup of the House and Senate after the 2012
elections.  The Fed has been a hot topic of discussion during
Republican presidential candidate debates. Republicans in both
the House and Senate sense the Fed strayed outside of its
mission with rescues for firms such as American International
Group Inc., said Andrew Laperriere, managing director at
International Strategy & Investment Group Inc. in  Washington .  Any bill that constrains the Fed “is going to have pretty
broad-based support among Republicans,” said Laperriere. Still,
moving from criticism to legislation, especially on a single
mandate at a time of high unemployment, could be a reach for
some Republican presidential candidates, he said. That makes the
legislation more viable in 2013, once the election is over, he
said.  Single Mandate  Democrats are likely to oppose any effort to switch the Fed
to a single mandate especially when the  unemployment rate  has
been above 8 percent for almost three years, said  Sarah Binder ,
senior fellow in governance studies at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington. Unemployment fell to 8.6 percent in November from
9 percent in October. Until last month, the rate had been at 9
percent or above since April.  Reining in the Fed “still rings true to rank and file
Republicans” in both the House and Senate who sense “the Fed
has taken far too active a role and crossed boundaries into
fiscal policy,” Binder said. “A single mandate for  price
stability  is a non-starter for Democrats,” she said.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the Joint
Economic Committee in October that the Fed’s dual mandate “is
workable, although I do agree that in the long run the only
thing the Fed can control is inflation.”  Binder said both parties could probably find common ground
on points within Brady’s legislation that require faster
disclosure.  Fed Transcripts  A draft of the bill, obtained by Bloomberg News, calls for
release of Fed meeting transcripts within two to three years.
Transcripts are now shown to the public with a five-year lag.  Release of meeting minutes, including staff forecasts,
would have to be released in 15 days. Minutes are now disclosed
with a three week lag, and the Fed keeps staff forecasts
prepared for the policy meetings secret.  Brady also takes aim at the Banking Act of 1935 which
consolidated the voting power on the Fed’s 12-member Open Market
Committee with the politically-appointed Board of Governors.  The seven seats on the Washington-based Board are appointed
by the president and confirmed by the  U.S. Senate , and have a
permanent vote on monetary policy, as does the president of the
New York  Federal Reserve . The other 11 regional presidents
rotate for the four remaining policy seats, with the Cleveland
and Chicago Fed presidents voting every other year and the
remaining nine presidents voting every third year.  The legislation would give all 12 regional Fed banks
membership on the FOMC which sets monetary policy.  ‘Main Street’  “My thinking is the original intent of the Fed was to have
representation from all industries, from agriculture to Main
Street, and throughout it’s really become a New York-Washington-
centric committee,” Brady said.  The regional Fed presidents are a diverse group with some
strongly focused on the Fed’s employment goal now so the
proposal could hold appeal to some Democrats.  The proposal would constrain the Fed in other ways. Brady’s
draft legislation calls on the Fed to describe a lender-of-last-
resort policy and “make clear that credit in any form will not
be provided to insolvent banks or other financial
institutions.” Even though the proposal would mean the Fed
focuses primarily on inflation, it also asks the central bank to
consider values on stocks, real estate, bonds, gold and other
assets in its assessment of prices.  The bill would move exchange-rate policy to the Fed from
Treasury and restrict the central bank’s normal open-market
operations to  Treasury securities  only. The Fed’s balance sheet
currently holds $858 billion in agency mortgage-backed
securities aimed at improving conditions in housing finance.  “I don’t think the Fed ought to be in the role of
allocating capital in this country,” said Brady. “Future
purchases would be limited to Treasuries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  