-- RIM Pares Gains as Analysts Say a Buyout Bid Is Unlikely
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2011-12-21T21:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/research-in-motion-gains-on-report-saying-amazon-mulled-takeover.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, pared gains in Nasdaq trading after
analysts said a buyout is unlikely as company executives focus
on guiding their own turnaround.  As long as Co-Chief Executive Officers  Jim Balsillie  and
 Mike Lazaridis  keep telling investors they’re determined to
engineer a recovery by themselves, buyers will be wary, said
 Stuart Jeffrey , a Nomura Securities analyst.  “Management is unwilling to do a deal in the immediate
future,” said Jeffrey, who is based in New York and rates RIM
shares “neutral,” in a research note today.  RIM rose 10 percent to $13.78 at the New York close, the
most since Oct. 5, after touching $14.14. The Waterloo, Ontario-
based company’s stock has jumped at least 5 percent 10 times
since the beginning of August on speculation that its stumbles
and decline in valuation invite a takeover.  Today’s increase followed a Reuters report yesterday that
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  had considered a bid for RIM, and a Wall Street
Journal report yesterday that  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  also
had mulled one. RIM had dropped 78 percent this year through
yesterday.  “There is only one clear beneficiary of the current
takeover noise: the excessively de-rated RIM shares,” said
 Alexander Peterc  and Alexandre Faure, analysts at Exane BNP
Paribas, in a note today. They have a “neutral” rating on RIM.  No Management Shakeup  Balsillie and Lazaridis together own more than 10 percent
of RIM and are its co-chairmen. While  Jaguar Financial Corp. (JFC)  has
called on RIM to shake up management and name an independent
chairman, the two men didn’t discuss any plans for leadership
changes during a conference call on earnings last week.  “We are more committed than ever to addressing the issues
at hand,” Balsillie said on the Dec. 15 call.  RIM’s effort to move its smartphones to a platform called
BlackBerry 10 also may be impeding bidders by keeping RIM busy.
The transition has run into delays, and Lazaridis said last week
that the first BB10 phones won’t be available until the “latter
part” of 2012.  “It is unlikely RIM will pursue strategic action prior to
launching BlackBerry 10,” said  Rod Hall , a San Francisco-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  analyst with a “neutral” rating on RIM,
in a note today. “The company needs to focus on executing and
closing a significant product gap rather than being distracted
with M&A,” or mergers and acquisitions.  Turned Down  RIM “turned down takeover overtures” from Amazon because
it wanted to fix shortcomings independently, Reuters  reported 
yesterday. The Wall Street Journal  said  Microsoft and Nokia
“flirted with the idea of making a joint bid” in recent
months. Both publications cited unidentified people familiar
with the respective matters.  That Amazon would be interested doesn’t make sense, given
that its mainstay is consumers and that RIM’s strength is with
business customers, Nomura’s Jeffrey said in his note. Amazon’s
Kindle Fire tablet appears to be a hit, while RIM’s PlayBook has
been a dud, he said.  RIM shipped 150,000 PlayBooks last quarter. The Fire,
similar in size to the PlayBook, may sell 3.9 million units in
its first quarter on sale, according to researcher IHS ISuppli.  “It is difficult to see why Amazon would be attracted to
RIM’s tablet business,” Jeffrey said.  Microsoft declined 1 percent to $25.76 at the  New York 
close. Nokia rose 0.5 percent to 3.66 euros in Helsinki.
Amazon.com fell 4.5 percent to $174.35.  Joint Bid  Microsoft looked at making a joint bid with Nokia for RIM,
the Journal reported, citing a person with knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be identified because the talks were
private. The proposal, which included Nokia taking on RIM’s
hardware business, was discussed informally and wasn’t taken to
the board level, the person said, according to the Journal.  Jamie Ernst, a spokeswoman for RIM, declined to comment
yesterday, as did Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Seattle-based
Amazon, and Peter Wootton, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-
based Microsoft. Nokia doesn’t comment on speculation, said  Doug Dawson , a spokesman for the Espoo, Finland-based company.  Low Multiple  RIM trades at 3.12 times earnings, the lowest of any
communications-equipment maker with a market capitalization
greater than $1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The status of discussions between Microsoft and Nokia was
unclear, according to the Journal. Amazon hired an investment
bank to review a possible deal with RIM, without making a formal
offer, Reuters said.  Microsoft and Nokia might be able to use RIM in their
rivalry with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the largest smartphone maker. Amazon is
also vying with Apple in the tablet market.  Nokia started selling the 420-euro Lumia 800, its first
device running Microsoft’s Windows Phone software, in November
in  Europe . Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop teamed up
with Microsoft to compete with touch screens from Apple and
vendors of handsets using Google Inc.’s Android system.  Mats Nystroem, a Stockholm-based analyst at SEB Enskilda,
said an acquisition of RIM wouldn’t make sense for Microsoft and
Nokia.  “Microsoft is pushing Windows through Nokia, why would
they include another operating system from RIM that is inferior
and not competitive?” he said in a phone interview. He has a
“hold” rating on Nokia.  At Robert W. Baird & Co., the rating is “underperform.”
Combining RIM’s BB10 with Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7 “would be
messy at best,” said  William Power , a Baird analyst, in a note
to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  