-- U.K. Retail Sales Index Unexpectedly Rose in December, CBI Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2011-12-20T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/retail-sales-index-unexpectedly-rose-in-december-on-discounts-cbi-says.html
An index of U.K.  retail sales 
unexpectedly rose to a seven-month high in December, boosted by
retailers offering pre-Christmas discounts.  The gauge of annual sales growth increased to 9 from minus
19 in November, the London-based business lobby said in a report
today. Retailers had forecast a drop to minus 6 in December and
a measure of expected demand for next month was at minus 18.  “Early discounting helped retailers add a little extra
sparkle to their sales in December, although the reprieve
appears to only be temporary as they don’t expect sales to
continue to grow into January,” Judith McKenna, who heads the
CBI’s distributive trades panel and is also chief financial
officer of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda unit, said in a
statement.  Nationwide Building Society  said today that  consumer
confidence  rebounded last month from a record low, while noting
that Britons remained cautious about the future.  Unemployment 
rose to a 17-year high in the three months through October, and
Bank of England officials have said Britain faces at least one
quarter of contraction.  A measure of three-month sales volumes was at minus 7 in
December, down from minus 15, the CBI said. An index of the
volume of sales for the time of year rose to minus 16 from minus
39. A gauge of orders placed with suppliers increased to minus 4
from minus 25, while an index of stock volumes in relation to
expected demand rose to 10 from 8.  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO) , the U.K.’s biggest online-only grocer,
forecast yesterday that full-year profit will be below analysts’
estimates after sales growth slowed amid worsening delivery
times and order accuracy.  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , the owner of the Primark
discount-clothing chain, reiterated on Dec. 9 its forecast that
sales and profit will increase this fiscal year as commodity
costs ease. Chairman Charles Sinclair said the growth outlook in
developed economies is “subdued” and the company expects
“pressure on consumer disposable incomes to be maintained.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  