-- Ron Paul’s Ascent Won’t Last, or Help His Cause: Ramesh Ponnuru
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2011-12-20T00:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ron-paul-s-ascent-won-t-last-or-help-his-cause-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Representative  Ron Paul , a Texas
Republican and a candidate for the presidential nomination,
doesn’t mind long odds, and doesn’t mind standing alone.  In 2004, the House voted 414-1 for a resolution celebrating
the 40th anniversary of the passage of the Civil Rights Act of
1964. Paul not only voted no but  gave a speech  arguing that the
act should never have been enacted. Employers who wish to
discriminate against blacks, in his view, should be free to do
so. A federal government that claims the power to override their
decisions, he said, could also impose racial quotas. “Relations
between the races have improved despite, not because of, the
1964 Civil Rights Act.”  Most of Paul’s fellow libertarians are excited that he is
 doing well  in the polls in  Iowa , and hope that more Americans
will be exposed to their political philosophy. But as Paul’s
record on civil rights suggests, more familiarity with his brand
of libertarianism won’t necessarily lead to much more support --
for him or for his cause.  Libertarianism is a political philosophy based on the
minimization of coercion, with government limited fairly
strictly to the prevention of force and fraud. Both prostitution
and insider trading  would be legal  in a libertarian society. But
libertarians sometimes have fierce internal splits, and not all
of them support Paul.  Defying Orthodoxy  Most libertarians, for example, were in favor of the recent
free-trade pacts approved by Congress. Paul voted against them,
as he usually votes against such deals, because he believes that
the government should abolish all tariffs unilaterally rather
than reduce some of them in deals negotiated with other
governments. Similarly, he voted against the House Republican
budget earlier this year -- the one that Democrats denounced for
“ending Medicare as we know it” -- because it didn’t shrink the
federal government enough.  Paul is also more culturally conservative than other
libertarians. He opposes abortion, which he considers an
infringement of the individual’s right to be free from violence.
He has supported the Defense of Marriage Act, and wants to limit
the jurisdiction of federal courts so that they can never force
state governments to recognize same-sex marriage. On issues such
as these, Paul differs with his fellow libertarian Republican
Gary Johnson, the former New Mexico governor -- which was one
reason socially liberal libertarians were glad Johnson joined
the presidential race, to present another side of their
philosophy.  Many of them were also dismayed by  bigoted newsletters  sent
out under Paul’s name during the 1990s -- newsletters that Paul
has disavowed, claiming that he didn’t review the offensive
passages before their release and doesn’t know who wrote them.  Paul’s top issues in this campaign are foreign policy -- he
opposes all U.S. military action except in response to attacks -
- and monetary policy.  His foreign-policy stance has led him to sympathize with
the regimes the U.S. government is most concerned about: In last
week’s debate he tried hard to explain what the world looked
like from the perspective of Iranian policymakers, and dismissed
concerns that they are close to acquiring nuclear capability as
“war propaganda.” It has also led him to  hostility to Israel . It
has led him to oppose, in retrospect, the Civil War, which even
his fans worry might not be “ a winning position .”  And it has led him, all too often, to conspiracy theory.
“The CIA runs everything,”  he said  in a 2010 speech. “We need to
take out the CIA.” He repeated the sentiment on the radio show
of the 9/11 “truther,” and all-around conspiracy theorist, Alex
Jones. Paul isn’t too fastidious about the company he keeps; he
has said that he has “a lot of friends in the John Birch
Society.” Nor is he above sending a discreet signal to such
theorists that he shares their suspicions, as in  his recent
comment  about the “glee” that the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks
caused in the  Bush administration .  Apocalyptic Views  Paul’s views on money tend toward the apocalyptic. He has
an idiosyncratic definition of inflation: Any expansion of the
 money supply  qualifies, even if prices don’t rise as a result.
But he has also regularly predicted that rising prices are just
around the corner. He warned of “the very real possibility of
hyperinflation in the near future” back in 1981, at the start of
a three-decade-long trend of falling inflation that shows no
sign of stopping.  It is possible that Paul will come in first in a fractured
field in the Iowa caucuses: Those caucuses reward intensity of
support, which he certainly has. The notion that he will be the
Republican nominee is too absurd to spend a moment
contemplating.  Somewhat more likely is that he will mount a third-party
run in November 2012. But getting on the ballot will be
difficult, especially in states that discourage primary-campaign
losers from running in general elections. If he were to help the
reelection of President  Barack Obama  by splitting the Republican
vote, the party would probably hold it against his son and ally,
Rand Paul, who is in his first year as a Republican senator from
 Kentucky  and is widely considered more politically talented than
his father. Does the elder Paul want to take that risk?  So over the next few weeks Paul’s ideas will probably get
more attention than they have ever received before, or will ever
receive again. Most people who examine them will reject them,
for good reasons, while giving him credit for sincerity.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 