-- Rupiah Weakens for Second Day on European Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2011-12-20T09:13:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/rupiah-weakens-for-second-day-on-european-debt-crisis-concern.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah dropped the most
in three weeks on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen,
slowing global economic growth and sapping demand for emerging-
market assets.  Overseas funds  pulled  620 billion rupiah ($68 million) from
government debt in the three days through Dec. 16, according to
data from the ministry of finance. The rupiah rallied 0.6
percent on Dec. 16 after  Fitch Ratings  raised Indonesia’s credit
rating to BBB-, the company’s lowest investment grade.  “Asian currencies are in a risk-off mood today and the
rupiah is leading declines as it still sometimes responds
disproportionately to risk,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong
Kong-based senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “We
believe the currency has good medium-term prospects from the
rating upgrade once the global environment improves.”  The rupiah slipped 0.2 percent to 9,080 per dollar as of
4:12 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has weakened 3.2 percent
this quarter.  Spain  is due to auction three- and six-month securities
today. Euro-area governments have to repay more than 1.1
trillion euros ($1.4 trillion) of long- and short-term debt in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Italy and Spain
have about 146 billion euros of bonds and bills maturing in the
first quarter, the data show.  The yield on Indonesia’s 8.25 percent bonds due July 2021
fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.20
percent, according to prices from the Inter Dealer Market
Association.  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  may upgrade
Indonesia’s credit rating to investment grade in the first
quarter of next year, Coordinating Minister for the Economy
Hatta Rajasa said today in Jakarta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  