-- Russian Stocks Rebound to Two-Week High on Crude, U.S. Housing
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2011-12-20T15:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/russian-stocks-rebound-to-two-week-high-on-crude-u-s-housing.html
Russian stocks (INDEXCF)  rebounded to their
highest in almost two weeks as oil, the country’s largest export
revenue earner, gained after the U.S. Commerce Department said
housing starts increased last month to the strongest level in
more than a year.  The 30-stock Micex Index gained 2 percent to 1,409.84 by
the close in Moscow, erasing an earlier loss of as much as 1.1
percent. OAO Transneft, the nation’s oil pipeline monopoly,
jumped 2.5 percent, while OAO Rosneft, the biggest oil producer,
rose 2.8 percent.  OAO Gazprom , Russia’s natural gas export
monopoly, increased 3.9 percent. The dollar-denominated  RTS
Index  surged 1.9 percent to 1,395.79.  Stocks rallied after a report showed that US housing starts
climbed 9.3 percent to a 685,000 annual rate, exceeding the
highest estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
the most since April 2010, Commerce Department figures showed
today in  Washington . Crude for January delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  climbed as much as $2.14, or 2.3 percent, to
$96.02 a barrel, the highest price since Dec. 14.  “Today’s rally in Russian stocks is on the back of
stronger than expected data in the U.S. with housing starts and
 Europe  with German business confidence,” Marco Casas, vice-
president of equity sales at Otkritie Capital in  New York , said
in e-mailed comments today.  German business confidence unexpectedly rose for a second
month in December as two economic institutes predicted Europe’s
biggest economy will stave off the debt crisis and avoid a
recession in 2012.  Stocks Plunge  Russian stocks have plunged 6 percent this month after tens
of thousands protested across the country against alleged
electoral fraud in the Dec. 4 elections. Almost 40,000 people
have signed-up to protest on Dec. 24 in Central Moscow.  “ Russia  is in the doldrums,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of
Russian shares at CF Global Trading in  London , wrote in e-mailed
comments. “Investor attention is fading and the world is
watching to see how Russia’s inchoate protest movement fares
this weekend.”  Russia’s newly merged Micex-RTS exchange halted equity
futures trading on its first day yesterday, sparking concern the
Moscow bourse won’t be able to compete with global peers.
Futures expiring in March on the dollar-denominated RTS index
stopped trading about 12 minutes into the U.S. session yesterday
due to a “technical problem,” Anton Storozh, a technical
support specialist at the exchange said by phone from Moscow.
Trading resumed 50 minutes before the end of the session, with
the contracts sliding 1 percent to 133,350.  Futures Market  The world’s 10th biggest futures market, according to the
Futures Industry Association, became part of Russia’s newly
combined exchange yesterday after the Micex and  RTS  united in a
bid to lure local companies and investors back to their home
market. After halting trading more than 30 times in the second
half of 2008, the Micex cut the number of stoppages to once in
2009 and five this year, according to spokesman Nikita Bekasov.  The Micex, which has lost 16 percent this year, trades at
4.8 times estimated earnings compared with 10 times for  Brazil ’s
Bovespa index, 10.7 times for the Shanghai Composite Index and
13.8 times for the BSE India Sensitive Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  -- Editors: Ash Kumar, Linda Shen  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  