-- Ryan Says Jets Are New York’s Best NFL Team Before Christmas Eve Showdown
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-20T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/ryan-says-jets-are-new-york-s-best-nfl-team-before-christmas-eve-showdown.html
New York Jets coach  Rex Ryan  says
his team is better than the  New York Giants . His players will
get the chance to back up his words in this week’s Christmas Eve
showdown between the rivals.  The Jets (8-6) are chasing a wild-card playoff berth and
the Giants (7-7) are challenging for a division title and a
return to the  National Football League ’s postseason after a two-
year absence. The loser of their Dec. 24 game at MetLife Stadium
may fall out of playoff contention.  It will be the first time the NFL’s New York-area teams
have met this late in a season since 1988, when the Jets won
 27-21  in the finale for both clubs to prevent the Giants from
making the playoffs. While the Giants have won four of the five
meetings since, Ryan’s Jets are 3-point favorites this week,
according to oddsmakers.  “We were the better team my first two years and we get a
chance to prove on Saturday who is the best team this year,”
Ryan said yesterday during a media conference call. “You
basically have the same record and everything’s at stake, so the
proof’s in the pudding. Whoever wins this game is clearly the
best team in New York.”  The Jets, coming off consecutive trips to the American
Football Conference championship game, are tied with the
 Cincinnati Bengals  in the chase for the second of the AFC’s two
wild-card spots. They had a three-game winning streak snapped
two days ago in a 45-19 loss at the  Philadelphia Eagles .  The Giants are  one game behind  the  Dallas Cowboys  in the
National Football Conference’s East division with two games left
in the regular season. They’ve lost five of their past six
games, including a 23-10 home defeat two days ago against the
 Washington Redskins .  ‘We’re Better’  “If they beat us, I’ll be the first one to tip my hat,”
Ryan said. “I know they’re an excellent football team, but I
think we’re better.”  Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said he understands the hype
surrounding this week’s matchup, with both teams in the playoff
hunt and New York-area bragging rights on the line. He also said
the Giants aren’t going to respond to any of Ryan’s
proclamations or pre-game trash talk.  “I don’t usually get involved in the rhetoric part of this
thing,” Coughlin said. “What’s important is that the game is
an important game to both teams. And the game will be settled on
Saturday afternoon at 1 p.m.”  Giants linebacker  Mathias Kiwanuka  said the players
understand what’s at stake. If the Giants lose and the Cowboys
beat the Eagles this week, the Giants would have no chance to
make the NFL postseason, even if they went on to beat  Dallas  in
their season finale on Jan. 1.  Do or Die  “It’s going to be do or die,” Kiwanuka told reporters
yesterday after practice. “Our playoffs have already started.”  The Giants and Jets last met in a regular-season game in
October 2007, when the Giants won 35-24 in Week 5 and went on to
win their third  Super Bowl  title four months later. The Jets
haven’t beaten the Giants since 1993, when Bruce Coslet was the
head coach and Boomer Esiason was at quarterback.  Since Ryan came to New York in 2009, the Jets are 32-20 and
have fallen a win short of reaching the Super Bowl the past two
seasons. The Giants have a 25-21 record over the same span and
have missed the playoffs the past two years.  “I never came here to be little brother to anybody, so
it’s on,” Ryan said. “You don’t play each other for four
years, so there’s some bragging rights. There’s some more
important things that go into it, because basically you’re out
of the playoffs if you lose this game, either team is.”  Clubs Share Stadium  Although the clubs share MetLife Stadium in East
Rutherford,  New Jersey , the Jets are considered the home team
this week. The Jets control their playoff fate, as they
currently hold a tiebreaker advantage over the Bengals, who are
also 8-6, for the AFC’s final wild-card spot.  Should the Jets lose, they risk falling behind the Bengals
while Oakland,  Tennessee  and  San Diego  all enter this weekend
one game back in the  playoff race  with 7-7 records.  “There’s certainly a sense of urgency,” Ryan said. “You
have to get it done or you go home. That’s the way it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  