-- Santos May Invest A$16 Billion Developing NSW Coal-Seam Gas
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2011-12-20T05:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/santos-may-invest-a-16-billion-developing-nsw-coal-seam-gas-2-.html
Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-
biggest oil producer, and its partners may spend more than A$16
billion ($16 billion) on coal-seam gas development in New South
Wales state, a report released by the company shows.  Santos and partners plan to invest A$1 billion within five
years exploring coal-seam gas reserves in the northwest part of
the state, according to the Allen Consulting Group study
commissioned by the company. The development may “transform New
South Wales into a gas-exporting state,” supply as much as 30
percent of east coast demand and contribute A$15.2 billion to
the state economy through 2035, the report found.  “There is a large opportunity, a very large prize, but
before you can access that prize you have to make sure the gas
is there and can be brought up safely and sustainably,” James Baulderstone, the company’s vice president for eastern  Australia ,
told reporters in Sydney today. “The most important thing for
us is we’re allowed to continue to explore.”  Coal-seam gas producers globally are facing opposition from
political and environmental groups concerned their drilling
methods may harm water supplies. Santos is building a $16
billion development in Australia’s northern Queensland state to
liquefy gas from coal deposits for export to  Asia .  Santos was little changed at A$12.19 in Sydney trading. The
shares have fallen 7.3 percent this year, compared with a 15
percent decline for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Eastern Star  The Adelaide-based company agreed in July to acquire the
shares in Eastern Star Gas Ltd. it didn’t already own for about
A$730 million and is betting that demand for eastern Australian
natural gas will more than triple by 2020.  Santos’s partners include TRUenergy Holdings Pty, a unit of
Hong Kong-based  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2) , which agreed in July to buy
20 percent of Eastern Star’s permits in the state’s Gunnedah
Basin for A$284 million. Santos and partners have the potential
to invest more than A$16 billion in northern NSW on coal-seam
gas by 2035, the report said.  New South Wales, Australia’s most populous state, has
maintained a temporary ban on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
for three more months to strengthen standards for the process
used to extract natural gas from coal deposits. Fracking is the
process in which water and chemicals are injected into rock
formations to free the trapped gas.  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK)  also has coal-seam gas operations in New
South Wales.  Santos said last month it will withdraw an Eastern Star Gas
application for the Mullaley pipeline route in New South Wales
amid concerns about coal-seam gas expansion. Santos plans to
invest A$500 million to drill 50 wells in the state over three
years, mainly in the Narrabri area in the state’s north, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  