-- Monti Calls Senate Confidence Vote on Italian Emergency Budget Package
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2011-12-21T19:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/senate-begins-debate-on-monti-s-emergency-budget-as-italy-faces-recession.html
Italy’s Senate is set to give final
approval tomorrow to Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s 30 billion-
euro ($39 billion) emergency budget plan after the government
requested a confidence vote on the legislation.  The ballot in the upper house will take place at about 2:15
p.m. in Rome following an address to lawmakers by Monti, Senate
Speaker Renato Schifani said today. The lower house Chamber of
Deputies passed the package, Italy’s third round of austerity
since June, in a 402-to-75 vote last week.  The plan includes a pension overhaul, a levy on primary
residences and a crackdown on tax cheats, all measures aimed at
stemming surging borrowing costs and convincing investors that
Monti is serious about cutting the euro region’s  second-largest
debt . It may also push  Italy  deeper into a recession projected
to begin in the current quarter after the economy contracted in
the three months through September.  “We had to act in a hurry,” Labor and Welfare Minister
Elsa Fornero told state-run television RAI in an interview. “We
have been called to the sick-bed of a very ill man,” she said,
referring to Italian public finances. The Cabinet first approved
the budget plan as a decree on Dec. 4.  Monti, who leads an administration made of unelected
ministers, may rely on the support of former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of Liberty party and the  Democratic
Party , Parliament’s main groups. A confidence vote ends debate
on a bill and Italian premiers use them to ensure approval of
legislation by staking the government’s survival on the outcome.  IMF Mission  The vote comes one day after the  International Monetary
Fund  concluded a short visit to Rome as part of its monitoring
program. The two-person IMF team “received updates on budgetary
developments” and discussed the missions “requested by the
Italian authorities” that will take place early next year, the
Washington-based lender said today in a statement.  Italy’s economy shrank 0.2 percent in the third quarter
from the previous three months, when it grew 0.3 percent,
national statistics institute Istat said today. The government
forecasts a shrinking economy in the fourth quarter, 0.6 percent
growth in 2011 and a 0.4 percent contraction in 2012.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond rose to 6.78
percent today, up 22 basis points from yesterday. The difference
with equivalent-maturity German bonds widened 19 basis points to
485 basis points.  Record Yield  Italy’s 10-year yield reached a euro-era record 7.48
percent on Nov. 9, three months after the ECB started buying the
country’s bonds to fight the region’s debt crisis. The Treasury
had to pay 6.47 percent to sell five-year debt on Dec. 14, the
most in more than 14 years.  Italy has to repay about 53 billion euros in the first
quarter from the region’s total maturing debt of 157 billion
euros, according to UBS AG. It owes a further 3.2 billion euros
in interest payments based on the average five-year yield of the
past three months.  Monti’s emergency package, which also aims to balance the
budget in 2013, will cut 0.5 percent from gross domestic product
over the next two years while reducing public debt,  Bank of
Italy  Governor Ignazio Visco told Parliament on  Dec. 9.  Some of
the drag on growth may be offset if borrowing costs are brought
down, he said.  Italy will remain in a recession until the second half of
next year, employers’ lobby Confindustria said in a Dec. 15
report. The $2.3 trillion economy will contract 1.6 percent in
2012 after growing 0.5 percent this year, the lobby said.  Monti said last week his government is preparing a plan to
spur economic growth led by Development Minister  Corrado Passera , a former chief executive officer of  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank. The plan will seek to overhaul
 labor laws  and the welfare system, Monti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  