-- Sleep Disorders Prevalent Among Police Officers, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2011-12-20T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/sleep-disorders-prevalent-among-police-officers-study-finds.html
About 40 percent of police officers
have  sleep disorders , leaving them at risk to themselves and
others, a study found.  Of those in the study with a disorder, 34 percent suffered
from  sleep apnea , which causes disruptions in breathing during
slumber, while 6.5 percent had moderate to severe insomnia,
according to research today in the  Journal of the  American
Medical Association .  Between 50 million and 70 million Americans have sleep
disorders and most are undiagnosed and untreated, the study
authors wrote. The untreated maladies can increase a person’s
risk for accidents and injuries and cause depression and high
 blood pressure . Police are susceptible to disturbed slumber
because they work long hours on varied shifts, the study said.  “Sleep disorders are common,”  Charles Czeisler , the
senior study author and chief of the Division of Sleep Medicine
at  Brigham and Women’s Hospital  in  Boston , said in a telephone
interview. “These disorders are associated with adverse
physical and mental health performance problems. They are
imminently treatable.”  Previous studies have shown problems with getting rest in
other professions that require long hours, Michael  Grandner , a
postdoctoral researcher at the Center for Sleep and Circadian
Neurobiology in the Division of Sleep Medicine at the  University
of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia, who also wrote an accompanying
editorial.  Other Occupations  “This parallels findings from other occupations like truck
drivers and physicians and nurses where we trust them to be
alert at all kinds of hours of the day doing all kinds of
complicated tasks to ensure our safety and well being,” he said
in a telephone interview.  “Getting these disorders recognized and treated can have a
profound impact on the people who have them,” he said. “Ten
years ago, no one was really talking about sleep disorders as a
public health issue. We now have the medical literature to show
that sleep disorders are an important factor for health and
longevity.”  The study included 4,957 police officers who participated
online or at an on-site screening facility. Between July 2006
and December 2007, 3,545 officers completed monthly follow-up
surveys.  Of the 4,957 police officers surveyed, 2,003, or 40
percent, were positive for at least  one sleep disorder . Four out
of five of those were undiagnosed, Czeisler said. And 29 percent
of all the officers who participated indicted they experienced
excessive sleepiness.  Depression, Burnout  Those who tested positive for a disorder were more likely
to report having depression, burnout or emotional exhaustion,
and falling asleep while driving than those who didn’t. Those
who had sleep apnea were more likely to be obese, have diabetes
and heart disease and drink a lot of caffeine, the authors said.  Police officers who had difficulty getting rest had a
higher risk of falling asleep behind the wheel, making an error
or safety violation due to fatigue, experiencing uncontrolled
anger toward a suspect or citizen and having absenteeism, the
researchers reported.  Saul Del Rivero, a field representative with the  Fraternal
Order of Police in Chicago , which represents about 11,000
patrolmen and detectives, said he’s concerned about the health
and safety risks as more officers work overtime to fill the gaps
left by those who retired. No rules are in place for how long a
police officer or detective works, he said in a phone interview.  Acclimating Themselves  In Phoenix, police officers work four 10-hour days and then
have three days off. The days and times they work are usually
the same as long as the officer stays in the same department,
said Franklin Marino, secretary of the  Phoenix Law Enforcement
Association , which represents about 2,600 police officers and
detectives.  He said by keeping the times and days consistent, people
can acclimate themselves to their shifts. And many officers are
former military members and are conditioned to survive on fewer
hours of sleep.  Today’s study was funded in part by the National Institute
of Justice and the National Institute for Occupational Safety
and Health.  Editors: Chris Staiti, Bruce Rule  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  