-- Smart, Loving Universe or Mechanistic Physical Laws?: Interview
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2011-12-20T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/smart-loving-universe-or-mechanistic-physical-laws-you-decide-interview.html
In “War of the Worldviews: Science
vs. Spirituality,” Deepak Chopra and Leonard Mlodinow consider
life’s big questions.  For Mlodinow, the infinite universe is governed by strict
laws of nature that we are discovering.  Chopra says the universe has its source in a loving God or
infinite consciousness.  A professor at the  California  Institute of Technology,
Mlodinow has written on subjects ranging from randomness to
hyperspace, including two books co-authored with Stephen Hawking. He’s also done scripts for “ Star Trek : The Next
Generation” and designed award-winning high-tech games.  An Indian medical doctor, Chopra runs a healing center in
Carlsbad, California, focusing on the mind-body connection and
has written more than 60 books that have been translated into 85
languages.  We spoke at  Deepak HomeBase , a physical and virtual salon
Chopra just opened in  New York .  Lundborg: Deepak, in positing a conscious, benevolent
universe, how do you know that you’re not engaging in magical
thinking?  Chopra: I have a brain inside my skull that only senses
things like pH and electrolytes and body temperature and has no
exposure to the external world, yet it gives me the experience
of color and sound and touch -- that’s magical.  So all my thinking is magical.  Yesterday’s Magic  Lundborg: Science confronts the magical differently?  Mlodinow: Today’s technology was magic yesterday. What
science will be able to create in hundreds of years would appear
magical to us, just like our technology would appear magical to
those in the past.  Lundborg: You have totally different world views: Science
says the universe is going to end in equilibrium, cold and dark,
while spirituality says the universe is evolving into greater
complexity. So which is it?  Chopra: There is an omnipresence and omnipotence and
omniscience to the cosmos, and it is very ordered, intelligent,
and creative.  We are actually an activity of the universe and the
universe is becoming self-conscious through the human nervous
system.  Lundborg: Leonard, you disagree?  Nature’s Laws  Mlodinow: We look at what is, and when we look at nature we
see there are certain laws that everything follows and those
laws don’t include any kind of organizing principle or guiding
force totaling creativity or imagination.  They’re purely mechanistic laws and the beauty of it is
that wonderful conscious beings like us could appear based on
those laws.  Lundborg: Where do you fundamentally agree?  Chopra: Where I fundamentally agree is that you can’t argue
with scientific truth. But it’s only a partial truth because
it’s all about what you observe there.  Science describes nature as it’s exposed to a human nervous
system, to questions that human beings ask, and therefore
ultimate truth remains elusive.  Mlodinow: I agree that the awesomeness of the universe
drives you. If you’re a physicist, you’re looking at data
concerning things like exploding stars and colliding black
holes, and when you see the amazing power in the universe, it
really is pretty mind boggling. Physicists are driven by a
desire to understand it.  To me, there’s a separate ground for science and for
spirituality or religion. What I do object to is when they say
we can’t teach science in school. If you’ve got religious
beliefs, that’s fine, but don’t go saying we have to change
science.  At the very frontiers of science, there may be debates, but
evolution is not one of them. Global warming is not one of them
-- there are not two sides to these issues.  Nuclear Weaponry  Lundborg: For you, Deepak, how does spirituality help?  Chopra: Science can give us better lives, okay, but science
devoid of values will create nuclear weaponry, will destroy the
planet, will cause global warming.  That, linked to very primitive identity, tribal identity,
ethnic identity, fundamental religious identity, is everything
that’s wrong with the world right now.  Spirituality provides some sense of connection to the
cosmos. It’s the emergence of a morality that comes from that
feeling of -- whether we call it platonic values, truth,
goodness, beauty, harmony, love, compassion, joy, equanimity,
peace of mind -- all of that is the essential religious
experience.  Lundborg: Leonard’s mother said she couldn’t believe in God
because of the Holocaust. Where does evil fit into these world
views?  Chopra: Maximum diversity. The infinite contains
everything; otherwise, it’s not infinite.  No child comes into the world evil, even  Adolf Hitler . I
think there was some abuse that happened in the very early
stages of development that programmed the nervous system into
that.  Blaming God  Mlodinow: I’m perturbed a little bit when I see people
interviewed after a tragic event. They’ll say, “The tornado
came and destroyed my house and killed my daughter, but at least
God was watching over us so the rest of my kids survived.”  They’ll always take the death or the horrible thing as
given. They credit God for what’s good.  When they get a horrible cancer, they thank God for
healing it, but don’t blame God for giving them the cancer in
the first place.  “War of the Worldviews” is published by Harmony (315 pages,
$26). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 