-- Soccer’s ‘Backroom Deals’ Face Scrutiny From Portuguese Markets Regulator
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2011-12-20T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/soccer-s-backroom-deals-revealed-by-stock-market-regulator.html
The head of  Portugal ’s  stock market
regulator  is forcing soccer teams to illuminate the sometimes
opaque world of player transfers.  Carlos Tavares , chairman of the Lisbon-based Securities
Market Commission, suspended trading in Benfica shares in August
until the country’s biggest club disclosed more information
about the $11 million trade of goalkeeper Roberto Jimenez to
Real Zaragoza. He has banned investment funds that bet on
players’ transfer rights from employing soccer insiders such as
agents to avoid conflicts of interest.  Tavares, a former economy minister, is taking teams to task
amid a boom in the sale of transfer rights in Portugal.
Investors have bet about $90 million since 2009 that 47 players
who have contracts with Benfica, Sporting Lisbon and  Porto (FCP)  will
be traded, according to the teams’ annual financial statements
for the two years through June 30, 2011.  “He’s been active in pressing clubs to disclose
information when they don’t want to,” said Joao Duque,
president of the Higher Institute of Economy and Management in
Lisbon. Publicly traded teams are concerned unlisted rivals will
gain a tactical advantage if they know all their transfer
dealings, said Duque, who wrote a 2005 study of share-price
performance by Porto and Sporting.  Player trading “often functions in a context of opacity”
and sometimes involves money being paid “under the table,” the
Brussels-based consultancy  KEA  published in a report last year
for the European Commission. There were $2.2 billion of trades
in the last European offseason, up 30 percent from a year
earlier, according to a report published Sept. 8 by Barcelona-
based marketing agency Prime Time Sport.  ‘Fiscal Clarity’  “Everybody wants to know that there aren’t backroom deals
going on,” said Emma McClarkin, a British member of the
European Parliament, in a Dec. 6 interview. “There is a need
for fiscal clarity.”  Portugal’s league is a springboard for talent with the most
successful players moving onto the richer English Premier League
or  Spain ’s La Liga. Investors can negotiate with teams to buy a
stake in players’ transfer rights and share any revenue when
they are traded. It’s becoming more common as banks rein in
lending to clubs.  Tavares, 58, served as a minister in the government of Jose Manuel Barroso, now the president of the European Commission,
and also worked as a banker at Banco Santander SA. He’s just as
rigorous with other industries he regulates and isn’t singling
out soccer, Duque said.  1 Percent  On Aug. 3, he lifted the suspension of  Benfica (SLBEN)  shares after
the Portuguese club disclosed Zaragoza, which is in
administration, paid 1 percent of the fee and the rest of the
deal was funded by a parent company of the Spanish team’s owner
Agapito Iglesisas. In May, Tavares fined Sporting 25,000 euros
($32,710) after it was late in disclosing information about the
hiring of a new coach.  Benfica spokesman Ricardo Maia didn’t reply to an e-mail
request for comment and several calls to Sporting’s offices went
unanswered. Tavares wasn’t available for comment.  In another deal made clearer by filings to the regulator
last year, Kia Joorabchian, an Iran-born investor who says he
owns the rights of “80 to 90” players around the world, made a
6 million-euro bet on half the transfer rights of Benfica
midfielder Ramires through London-based company Jazzy Ltd., six
weeks before the Brazilian player joined Chelsea for 22 million
euros. Joorabchian earned an 83 percent return, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  Joorabchian declined to comment because of a
confidentiality agreement with Benfica, his spokesman  Paul
McCarthy  said.  Money Manager  Lisbon-based Money manager MNF Gestao de Activos employs
two people who used to work in soccer to advise the 3.8-million
euro  Soccer Invest Fund  it manages after the stock market
regulator banned insiders from advising funds, says MNF director
Antonio Aranha.  “There can’t be any conflict of interest this way,”
Aranha says. “It’s a good system.”  The fund’s money comes from a single client, Aranha said.
Tavares also oversees Benfica’s 40 million-euro All Stars fund
and a 15 million-euro Sporting fund, both managed by Banco
Espirito Santo SA.  To be sure, other funds that do business with Portuguese
clubs aren’t regulated by Tavares because they are based in the
U.K.,  Channel Islands , Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The
finances behind many transfers involving clubs remain obscure
and open to conflicts of interest, Kern said by telephone.  ‘A Lot of Deals’  Atletico Madrid  registered the acquisition of defender
Julio Alves from Rio Ave of Portugal on Aug. 29, according to
the  Spanish league website . Two days later, the Spanish club
said it traded him to  Turkey ’s Besiktas, which in turn said it
bought 50 percent of his transfer rights for 3.1 million euros.
It’s not clear who owns the other half.  “We do a lot of deals: some work, others don’t,” Atletico
sports director Jose Luis Caminero told reporters Sept. 7. “We
don’t want to say everything we are doing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  