-- South Korean Groups Plan to Send Anti-Kim Leaflets to North With Balloons
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2011-12-20T09:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/south-korean-groups-plan-to-send-anti-kim-leaflets-to-north-with-balloons.html
South Korean civic groups and North
Korean defectors plan to send balloons carrying propaganda
leaflets across the border into the North tomorrow, an activity
the government in Pyongyang has previously labeled an attempt to
topple its communist regime.  The ten balloons will carry 200,000 leaflets criticizing
 North Korea  for naming Kim Jong Un to succeed his father  Kim Jong Il  as its leader, Park Sang Hak, a leader of the  Fighters
For Free North Korea , a Seoul-based group with 23,000 members,
said today by phone. His group and others plan to release the
balloons in Imjingak, about 40 kilometers (25 miles) north of
Seoul.  The South Korean government has expressed “sympathy” to
its northern neighbors over Kim’s death, Unification Minister Yu Woo Ik told reporters in Seoul today. Defense Minister Kim Kwan Jin said he will reconsider a plan allowing religious groups to
illuminate three towers adorned with lights in the shape of
Christmas trees near the border later this week.  “We haven’t made a final decision on the matter, but it
would seem to go against the current mood,” Minister Kim told
lawmakers in  Seoul  in an emergency defense committee session of
the  National Assembly . Yu also suggested the plan be canceled
for this year.  South Korea  had planned to switch on the lights on Dec. 23.  North Korea has previously characterized such acts as
provocations that could ignite a war, and warned that
hostilities would bring “unpredictable catastrophic
consequences.”  Last year, South Korea illuminated a tower hung with lights
in the shape of a Christmas tree on a hill near the border for
the first time since 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net 
Sangim Han in Seoul at   sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  