-- South Korean Military Raises Cyber Alert
-- B y   M a r i e - F r a n c e   H a n   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2011-12-20T08:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/south-korean-military-raises-cyber-alert.html
South Korea ’s  military  and civilian
government raised their cyber alert levels after the death of
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il , whose regime has been linked
with online attacks against its neighbor.  The armed forces are now at “infocon 4,” which indicates
signs of a “general threat,” defense ministry spokesman Kim
Min Seok told reporters in Seoul today. The Korean
Communications Commission raised its alert level to “caution,”
according to a statement yesterday. Both alerts are one notch
above authorities’ standard default for cyber vigilance.  Cyber-terrorism is an increasingly important part of the
North Korean military, said Kang Sung Kyu, a professor of Korean
studies at Korea University. “Cyber attacks against South Korea
have the effect of sowing confusion and disorder, and they also
help strengthen Kim Jong Un, who has been introduced to the
North Korean public not only as a military leader but also as a
technological leader.”  As many as 40 South Korean websites, including those run by
the presidential office, the National Intelligence Service and
Ministry of National Defense, were targeted by hackers in March.
The attacks were traced to  Internet Protocol  addresses used in
2009 assaults that were also suspected to be the work of  North
Korea , South Korean police said in April.  South Korean prosecutors in May accused North Korea of
paralyzing the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation’s
computer network in the previous month. The April attack shut
out 20 million clients from the group’s automated teller
machines and online banking services in a country of 48 million.  ‘Practice Runs’  The recent North Korean attacks against banks and
institutions may very well be just practice runs, said Korea
University’s Kang. “In case of a direct confrontation, North
Korea would have every advantage in disabling South Korea’s
advanced information networks. This would go beyond simple banks
and into power grids and the Internet itself.”  In April, the top U.S. commander on the peninsula said
North Korea had been jamming global-positioning-satellite
signals used in South Korea for military and commercial
purposes.  “We have seen North Korea use GPS jammers” in
northwestern South Korea and officials have urged the North to
stop, Army General Walter Sharp, commander of U.S. Forces Korea
at the time, told the House Armed Services Committee in April.
He was the first U.S. official to publicly confirm South Korean
officials’ allegations jamming.  More Preparation Needed  “The South Korean military has been pretty vulnerable to
cyber terrorism,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a professor of North
Korea studies at  Dongguk University  in  Seoul . “It’s possible
that North Korea will launch some cyber attacks, though they’re
unlikely to be extreme at the moment with the nation in
mourning.”  While the South Korean military is aware of the threat and
has itself formed a unit to counter cyber warfare, more
preparation is needed, said Kang.  All three episodes of cyber attacks used a method referred
to as  distributed denial of service , according to a May 3
statement from the Seoul Central District Prosecutors’ Office.
In such assaults, codes infect computers to trigger mass attacks
against targeted websites, according to  Ahnlab Inc. (053800) , South
Korea’s largest maker of antivirus software.  “Cyber attacks are most efficient in countries with strong
 information technology ,” said Baek Seung-Joo, director of the
Center for Security and Strategy at the Korea Institute for
Defense Analyses (KIDA). “Being an IT powerhouse is South
Korea’s vulnerability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie-France Han at 
 mhan30@bloomberg.net 
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  