-- Spain Sells 5.64 Billion Euros in Bills, More than Target, as Yields Drop
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2011-12-20T12:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/spain-sells-5-64-billion-euros-in-bills-more-than-target-as-yields-drop.html
Spain sold 5.64 billion euros ($7.36
billion) of bills, more than the maximum target, and yields fell
as the  European Central Bank  prepared to start offering banks
unlimited three-year loans later today.  The Madrid-based Treasury said it sold three-month debt at
an average yield of 1.735 percent, compared with 5.11 percent at
an auction on Nov. 22. It sold six-month paper at 2.435 percent,
down from 5.227 percent last month.  Demand for the three-month securities was 2.86 times the
amount sold, compared with 2.85 last month, and the bid-to-cover
for the longer-dated paper was 4.06 times compared with 4.92
previously. Spain aimed to sell as much as 4.5 billion euros.  Spanish and Italian bonds gained as the ECB prepares to
offer banks unlimited cash at its  benchmark rate  of 1 percent to
encourage lending and stave off a credit crunch. The yield on
 Spain ’s  10-year benchmark bond  fell to 5.092 percent at 12:35
p.m. in  Madrid  from 5.184 percent before the sale. The ECB,
which will allot the funds tomorrow, has also loosened rules on
the collateral lenders can use so that they can borrow more.  The result of Spain’s auction “is partly related to the
tender rather than a sudden and complete change in sentiment
toward the peripheral European markets,” said  Elisabeth Afseth ,
a strategist at Evolution Securities Ltd. in  London . “It may be
Spain is benefitting more from this than other countries as it
has a larger banking sector which is a little more immune to the
clear scrutiny of shareholders.”  Buying Debt  The Bank of Spain is urging lenders to borrow all the funds
they need, two people familiar with a meeting held last week
said yesterday, declining to be identified because the gathering
was private. Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA Chairman
 Francisco Gonzalez  called for the ECB to set up three-year
lending operations so that banks can buy government debt in a
Nov. 28 column in the Financial Times Deutschland.  “Spain is offering a more convincing story to investors
right now and, with the additional help from the ECB, is proving
more successful in getting its banks to buy its debt,” said
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
London. “Mr Rajoy’s government has a window of opportunity to
shore up confidence in Spain’s debt market.”  People’s Party leader  Mariano Rajoy  will be voted in as
prime minister by Parliament today after his landslide win in
Nov. 20 elections. Rajoy said yesterday all components of public
spending except pensions may be reduced as part of his plan to
regain investor confidence and recover Spain’s AAA rating.  The last time Spain auctioned three-month debt, on Nov. 22,
its borrowing costs doubled as it had to pay more than Greece
and  Portugal , and it sold six-month bills at the highest yield
since 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  