-- Standard Chartered Said to Delay Borneo Lumbung Loan Funding
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2011-12-20T07:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/standard-chartered-said-to-delay-funding-of-borneo-lumbung-loan.html
Standard Chartered  Plc will delay
financial close and funding of a $1 billion loan for  PT Borneo
Lumbung Energi & Metal (BORN)  until next year as the company waits on
certain approvals from  Indonesia ’s capital markets regulator,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Borneo Lumbung is buying a stake in coal producer Bumi Plc
from PT Bakrie & Brothers for $1 billion cash and said last
month it will use a $1 billion loan from Standard Chartered to
fund the acquisition. Borneo Lumbung plans to purchase a 23.8
percent stake in Bumi to access coal mines in Indonesia which
supply  China , the world’s second-biggest economy.  To proceed with the acquisition, Borneo Lumbung needs
approval from shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting,
the person said today. That meeting, originally scheduled for
Dec. 15, can’t take place until  Bapepam , the nation’s capital
markets regulator, signs off on certain details surrounding the
deal itself, the person said. Another date for the extraordinary
general meeting hasn’t been set yet, the person said.  Standard Chartered (STAN) , the loan’s underwriter, began marketing
the five-year facility to a select group of banks in senior
syndication last month. Banks are being invited to join the
facility at three levels for titles of mandated lead arranger
and bookrunner, and mandated lead arranger. Banks have been
invited to join at the senior level with underwritten
commitments.  Senior syndication is when a loan is marketed to a limited
number of banks, most of which would have an existing
relationship with the borrower.  Processing Credit Approvals  London-based Standard Chartered set a deadline of Dec. 30
for banks to respond and the facility will probably be
syndicated more generally to a wider group of lenders in early
2012, another person familiar with the matter said on Nov. 17.  While no firm commitments have been received to date,
several banks are processing credit approvals and plan to lend
at least $150 million, the person said today.  A number of lenders are considering committing $25 million
to $50 million on a take and hold basis, without underwriting,
four other people familiar with the matter said today. The take
and hold is the amount of a loan that banks intend to retain on
their balance sheet rather than selling to other banks in
general syndication.  Standard Chartered has had inquiries from some banks
wanting to lend smaller amounts, the first person said today.
Such lenders are expected to be approached for their intended
contributions next year, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  