-- European Stocks Rise on German Business Confidence; UniCredit, BNP Advance
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2011-12-20T17:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/stock-index-futures-in-europe-retreat-deutsche-telekom-shares-may-slide.html
European stocks  posted their biggest
rally this month as banks climbed after a report showed German
business confidence unexpectedly rose for a second month.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , BNP Paribas SA and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  all
climbed more than 5 percent as borrowing costs eased.  Arkema SA (AKE) 
rallied 9.1 percent amid speculation the company may be a
takeover target.  Bayer AG (BAYN)  added 5 percent after the drugmaker
said four of its drugs in development may become blockbusters.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 2 percent to
238.51 at the close in London, its biggest advance since Nov.
30, as the gauge rebounded from an earlier slide of as much as
0.5 percent. The Stoxx 600 has still  lost 14 percent  this year
amid mounting concern that policy makers will fail to stop at
least one member of the euro area from defaulting.  “The data is an incremental positive which may have given
rise to some short covering,” said Ioan Smith, a director at
Knight Capital  Europe  Ltd. in London. “This follows the
surprise improvement last month that was followed by up-ticks in
both the ZEW and PMI readings, and together with today’s report
suggests that confidence has bottomed out.”  Stocks gained after German business confidence climbed in
December, suggesting Europe’s largest economy is weathering the
euro area’s debt crisis. The gauge of  business confidence , based
on a survey of 7,000 executives, rose to 107.2 from 106.6 in
November, the Munich-based Ifo institute said today. The  median
economist forecast  called for a drop to 106.  In the U.K.,  consumer confidence  rose in November from a
record low as Britons’ expectations for the economy improved in
the run-up to Christmas,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  U.S. Housing Starts  Stocks extended their advance as a U.S. Commerce Department
report showed that housing starts increased 9.3 percent to a
685,000 annual rate in November, exceeding the  highest estimate
of economists  surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Building permits , a
proxy for future construction, climbed to their highest level in
more than a year.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
that substantial risks to the economy remain and the law forbids
him from increasing government-bond purchases to fight the
crisis. The benchmark Stoxx 600 tumbled 2.8 percent last week
after the  Federal Reserve  refrained from taking new action to
bolster the world’s largest economy.  National benchmark indexes climbed in every western-
European market except Iceland.  France ’s CAC 40 Index added 2.7
percent,  Germany ’s DAX Index jumped 3.1 percent and the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 Index gained 1 percent.  Lenders paced advancing shares today. UniCredit rallied 6.3
percent to 74 euro cents.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  surged 6 percent to 30.14
euros and Intesa climbed 5.8 percent to 1.29 euros.  Spain ’s Debt Sale  Spain sold 5.64 billion euros ($7.4 billion) of three-month
and six-month bills, the Bank of Spain said, compared with the
maximum target of 4.5 billion euros that the Treasury had set
for the sale.  The average yield on the three-month debt dropped to 1.735
percent, compared with 5.110 percent when the securities were
last issued on Nov. 22. The average six-month yield fell to
2.435 percent from 5.227 percent last month.  Arkema soared 9.1 percent to 51.98 euros. The company,
which is cheaper than any rival industrial-chemical producer,
may be a takeover target for  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC)  and
DuPont Co. after deciding to spin off its unprofitable vinyls
business.  “It revives the allure for a takeover,” Francoise Delva,
an analyst at Gilbert Dupont in Paris, said in a telephone
interview. Selling the vinyls unit “is positive for the
company, hence it will expose it to the appetite” of potential
buyers, she said.  Bayer Shares Rise  Bayer rose 5 percent to 46.99 euros after the drugmaker
said four of its medicines in development may contribute a
combined 5 billion euros to  annual revenue .  Blood-thinner Xarelto has the brightest prospects, with
peak sales probably exceeding 2 billion euros a year, the
company said. Eye drug VEGF Trap-Eye and cancer medicines
Alpharadin and regorafenib also have billion-euro potential, the
drugmaker said.  Elsewhere,  Daimler AG (DAI)  paced a rally in  carmakers , climbing
5.9 percent to 33.19 euros. The automaker is seeking an investor
to take a stake of as much as 10 percent and is in talks with
China Investment Corp., Manager Magazin reported.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  fell 1.5 percent to 2,905 pence after the
drugmaker projected earnings per share at the low end of its
forecast because of research setbacks. The company will take a
charge of $381.5 million in the fourth quarter after two
experimental medicines had disappointing results.  Core earnings per share will probably be “in the lower
half” of the company’s $7.20 to $7.40 estimate, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  