-- Suicide Pact Ended Turbulent Life of Writer, Spy, Editor Kleist
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2011-12-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/suicide-pact-ended-turbulent-life-of-writer-spy-tabloid-editor-kleist.html
On a mild November day in 1811, the
author Heinrich von Kleist shot his terminally ill friend
Henriette Vogel by Berlin’s Wannsee lake. A minute later, he
turned the gun on himself. She was 31, he was 34.  They had written their farewell letters during a long last
night, fueled by wine and coffee laced with rum. The staff at
the inn they stayed at told police the pair was high-spirited,
even exuberant as they made their way along the shore, ordering
more coffee before carrying out their suicide pact.  For the bicentenary of his death, Kleist’s lakeside grave,
shared with Vogel, has been renovated with funds from the
private  Cornelsen Culture Foundation . Paths have been cleared
and plaques erected in memory of the duo.  Exhibitions, books and performances honor the hot-headed,
subversive author of such classic plays as “The Broken Jug,”
“The Prince of Homburg” and “Penthesilea.” He also wrote
disaster-packed short stories and novellas, among them “Michael
Kohlhaas,” “The Marquise of O” and “Earthquake in Chile.”  Now considered among the greatest German writers, Kleist
alienated contemporaries. Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, who staged
“The Broken Jug” for an appalled Weimar audience, said he felt
“horror and revulsion at something in his works.”  It took 100 years before Kleist was understood and valued.
 Thomas Mann  called him one of the “greatest, boldest, most
ambitious poets in the German language,” radical and eccentric
to “the point of madness.”  Cruel World  Kleist pushed himself to extremes, suffering breakdowns,
sickness and debt. The universe he portrayed dishes fates out
randomly; society is cruel.  “Earthquake in  Chile ” is the tale of a last-minute escape
from death thanks to nature’s intervention. It turns into a
tragedy of mistaken identity and gruesome mob lynching -- a
child is smashed to death against the pillar of a cathedral.  In “Michael Kohlhaas,” a horse dealer loses everything --
including his wife -- in his fanatical crusade for justice after
his horses are illegally confiscated.  Yet Kleist’s work is not without humor, mostly dark. “The
Broken Jug” (Der Zerbrochene Krug) is a farcical satire about a
corrupt judge forced to hear a case in which he is the
unacknowledged criminal. His absurd efforts to avoid exposure
become increasingly hilarious and implausible.  Bad Denim  Berlin’s  Maxim Gorki Theater  staged all Kleist’s plays for
the bicentenary. They remain in the repertoire into next year,
including a fast and fun “Broken Jug,” directed by Jan Bosse,
showing on Jan. 8 and Jan. 29, 2012. It’s an energetic,
contemporary adaptation, complete with bad denim and plenty of
tricks at the audience’s expense.  Kleist was born in Frankfurt an der Oder and joined the
Prussian army at age 15, extricating himself after what he
described as “seven wasted, irretrievable years.” He was keen
to study and registered at the Viadrina University in his home
town.  Two years later, he quit his studies abruptly in what has
become known as his “Kant crisis,” brought on by acute
existential doubt about the value of learning if truth cannot be
absolute. He traveled instead, breaking off a two-year
engagement when his fiancee refused to leave Frankfurt an der
Oder to run a farm with him in  Switzerland . There, in Thun, he
began writing.  More wanderlust and another breakdown followed in 1803. In
1805 Kleist joined the Prussian civil service, quitting before
 France ’s conquest of Prussia in 1806. Fiercely anti-Napoleon, he
was imprisoned in France on spying charges in 1807.  After spells running a literary magazine in Dresden and
hanging out in  Prague , he finally moved to Berlin in 1810, where
he started his paper.  Gossip, Crime  The “Berliner Abendblaetter” was a daily, four-page mix
of theater criticism, gossip, lurid crime stories, lengthy
essays and poetry. Kleist used it to pour vitriol on a theater
director who refused to stage one of his plays.  After falling afoul of the Prussian censors, he was forced
to close it. A futile search for a new source of income
followed. Then came his decision to die.  Vogel, suffering from uterine cancer, was not the first
woman Kleist asked to die with him, but she was the first to say
yes. In his suicide letter to his long-suffering half-sister
Ulrike, who had finally lost patience with his pleas for money,
Kleist wrote “the truth is that there was no help left for me
on earth.”  A double exhibition addressing Kleist’s life and work runs
through Jan. 29 at the  Kleist Museum  in  Frankfurt  an der Oder
and at the reconstructed rococo Ephraim Palais in Berlin.  For more information:  http://www.heinrich-von-kleist.org/en   To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 