-- Sweden Cuts Interest Rate for First Time Since 2009 on Europe Debt Crisis
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2011-12-20T12:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/sweden-cuts-interest-rate-for-first-time-since-2009-on-europe-debt-crisis.html
Sweden ’s central bank cut its main
 interest rate  for the first time since 2009 and predicted it
will keep the benchmark unchanged over the next year as  Europe ’s
debt crisis saps growth in the largest Nordic economy.  The seven-day repo rate was lowered a quarter point to 1.75
percent, the Stockholm-based Riksbank said today. The move was
predicted by 11 of 24 analysts in a Bloomberg survey, while two
forecast a half point cut and the rest an unchanged rate. The
bank lowered its rate forecast to 1.7 percent in the fourth
quarter next year, on average, from a 2.3 percent estimate.  “Things are pretty messy in the world around us and that
also affects the Swedish economy,” Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves said in  Stockholm . “We expect that the rate will stay
around these levels at least through 2012 and a bit longer.”  Sweden’s bank returned to crisis mode as growth in the
export-reliant economy, home to wireless network maker Ericsson
AB, slowed for a third quarter in the three months through
September. The  European Central Bank  and policy makers in
neighboring Norway both cut rates this month to ease the fallout
from the deepening debt crisis, which has sent Swedish interbank
rates to a three-year high.  Krona Rises  The krona rose 0.3 percent to 8.9779 per euro and 0.8
percent to 6.8721 against the dollar as of 12:54 p.m. in
Stockholm. Sweden’s two-year note yield rose five basis points
to 0.80 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Riksbank’s forecast for future rate moves disappointed
the market which had expected it would include rate cuts, said
Michael Grahn, an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S  in Stockholm.  Euro countries yesterday bolstered their anti-crisis
arsenal, channeling 150 billion euros ($195 billion) to the
 International Monetary Fund  as the ECB widened its support for
sagging bond markets. Sweden and three other countries not using
the single currency also pledged to add funds. Ingves said last
week Sweden may contribute as much as 100 billion kronor ($14
billion).  “We will get slowing growth going forward and at the same
time inflationary pressure in the Swedish economy is low,”
Ingves said. The bank cut its forecast for economic growth next
year to 1.3 percent from 1.5 percent, and estimated 2012
inflation will slow to 1.5 percent, on average. Growth will
accelerate to 2.3 percent in 2013, it forecast.  Reservations  The ECB reduced its benchmark rate on Dec. 8 for the second
time since November to 1 percent, matching a record low, as the
17-nation euro region struggles to avoid a recession.  Norway ’s
central bank unexpectedly cut its main rate by 0.5 percentage
point to 1.75 percent on Dec. 14.  The Riksbank’s rate path “indicates a 25 percent
probability that rates will be cut another 25 basis points at
the 16 February meeting,” said Mikael Nilsson and Marcus Widen,
analysts at Barclays Capital Plc in  London , in a note.  Deputy Governors Karolina Ekholm and Lars E.O. Svensson
entered a reservation against the decision and wanted the rate
cut a half point to 1.5 percent. They also called for a rate of
1.25 percent in the second quarter of next year.  Swedish data indicate the largest Nordic economy, which
relies on exports for about half its output, continued to slow
this quarter with falling industrial orders and retail sales as
 consumer confidence  holds near a two-year low.  Inflation, adjusted for mortgage costs, has been below the
Riksbank’s 2 percent target all year and held at a two-year low
of 1.1 percent in November. The headline inflation slowed for a
third month to 2.8 percent.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the Nordic region’s biggest lender, said
today they are sticking to a forecast for the bank to cut rates
to 0.75 percent next year.  “The Riksbank’s rate path still remains well above our
forecast,” Andreas Jonsson, an analyst at Nordea, said in a
note today. “We regard their economic outlook as too
optimistic.”  The Swedish central bank in September halted a cycle of
rate increases after the economy expanded at the fastest pace in
40 years last year. Sweden will post a  budget surplus  in 2011
for a second year, and the European Commission estimates the
nation’s public finances will remain in the black through its
2013 forecast horizon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  