-- Hu Jintao Visits Beijing’s North Korean Embassy as China Backs Kim Jong Un
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-20T05:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/hu-jintao-visits-beijing-s-north-korean-embassy-as-china-backs-kim-jong-un.html
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  visited
North  Korea ’s embassy in Beijing today to express condolences
for the death of  Kim Jong Il , as  China  backed his son to lead
the world’s only Communist hereditary dynasty.  No detail was given about Hu’s visit, which was reported by
the official Xinhua News Agency. China believes that North
Korea’s people will “remain united and turn their sorrow into
strength” under the leadership of the Worker’s Party of Korea
and Kim’s son, Kim Jong Un, according to a statement on the
Foreign Ministry’s website yesterday.  China is expressing its support for Kim Jong Un to make
sure it maintains its influence over the regime in Pyongyang,
which is increasingly dependent on China for political and
economic support, said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, a professor at the
Chinese University of  Hong Kong .  China will move to “boost links with the North Korean
generals in the new Kim Jong Un dynasty,” Lam said. “Beijing
will likely promise Pyongyang more generous economic, fuel and
technological support in order to shore up the alliance -- and
to ensure the pro-China tilt of the post-Kim Jong Il
administration.”  North Korea’s economic and political dependence on China,
its biggest trading partner, grew under Kim Jong Il. In
September, China’s exports of  kerosene , a fuel used for heating
and cooking, rose to 14,151 tons, the most since April 2009.
Two-way trade last year rose to $3.47 billion, a 29 percent gain
from 2009, according to Chinese statistics.  “Secure Backer”  Editorials in state-run Chinese newspapers stressed the
need for a stable leadership transition, with the Global Times
saying China should be “a powerful and secure backer for a
smooth transition of power.” The newspaper suggested that high-
level Chinese leaders visit the North to maintain “close
communication” with its new leadership.  “Pyongyang’s commitment to peace and stability in the
Korean Peninsula is in its own interests and best serves its
regional responsibilities,” a China Daily editorial.  China accounted for 79 percent of the North’s 2009
 international trade , according to the Seoul-based Korea Trade-
Investment Promotion Agency. China provides almost 90 percent of
energy imports and 45 percent of the country’s food, according
to a July 2009 report by the New York-based Council on Foreign
Relations.  China Visits  Kim Jong Il made at least three trips to China in the last
two years. Chinese Politburo Standing Committee member Zhou Yongkang stood at the rostrum on Kim Il Sung square in October
10, 2010 with both Kim Jong Il and Kim Jong Un to celebrate the
65th anniversary of the Workers’ Party of Korea and review a
military parade.  The night before, tens of thousands of performers in
Pyongyang’s May Day Stadium feted Zhou with dancing performers
in panda costumes and synchronized placards with slogans such as
“without the Communist Party there would be no new China.”  The two countries share an 880-mile (1,415 kilometer)
border that a decade ago saw a wave of refugees from  North
Korea . About 1.78 million ethnic Koreans live on the Chinese
side of the border in the provinces of Jilin, Liaoning and
Heilongjiang.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  