-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Rises From Record Low
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2011-12-20T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/u-k-consumer-confidence-rises-from-record-low.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  rose in
November from a record low as Britons’ expectations for the
economy improved in the run-up to Christmas,  Nationwide Building
Society  said.  An index of sentiment increased to 40 from 36 in October,
which was the lowest since the survey began in 2004, the
Swindon, England-based customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed
report today. A gauge of consumers’ expectations rose 7 points
to 55.  “A small rise in consumers’ expectations toward the future
helped to drag  consumer confidence  up from October’s nadir,”
 Robert Gardner , chief economist at Nationwide, said in a
statement. Nevertheless, the index is “almost 40 points below
its long-run average, suggesting that consumers remain under
pressure and concerned about future prospects, both for the
wider economy and their own financial position.”  Unemployment  hit a 17-year high in the three months through
October, which may restrain confidence among households. Bank of
England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said in an interview last
week that the economy faces the risk of at least one quarter of
contraction and that policy makers have scope to expand stimulus
to aid the recovery.  Nationwide’s gauge of Britons’ assessment of their present
situation was unchanged at 18 in November, it said. An index of
shoppers’ views on whether it’s a good time to make a major
purchase, such as a house or car, rose 2 points to 77.
Nationwide surveyed 1,000 people between Oct. 24 and Nov. 20.  Slowing  inflation  may have helped improve consumers’
expectations, Nationwide said today. Consumer-price growth eased
for a second month in November and Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  has said he expects the rate to drop “sharply”
next year.  “Signs that inflation has passed its peak may have
provided some comfort, but at 4.8 percent in November, the cost
of living was still rising at more than twice the pace of
underlying wage growth,” Gardner said.  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien,  Jeffrey Donovan   To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  