-- U.K. Stocks Advance for First Day in Three; Rio Tinto Climbs
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2011-12-20T17:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/u-k-stocks-decline-for-a-third-day-astrazeneca-leads-the-drop.html
U.K. stocks (UKX)  advanced after better-
than-estimated data on housing starts in the world’s largest
economy and as reports showed gains in British consumer
confidence and German business sentiment.  Rio Tinto  Group contributed the most to an increase in
commodity companies as metals prices climbed.  Aggreko (AGK)  Plc, the
world’s largest provider of mobile power-supplies, rose 6.6
percent as Citigroup Inc. recommended the shares. AstraZeneca
Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest drugmaker, fell the most in a
month after predicting full-year  earnings (AZN)  in the lower half of
its forecast range.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index advanced 54.61, or 1 percent,
to 5,419.6 at the close in London, rebounding from an earlier
decline of as much as 0.7 percent. The broader  FTSE All-Share
Index (ASX)  also gained 1 percent and Ireland’s ISEQ Index advanced
1.4 percent.  “Are we finally hearing the jingling sleigh bells of the
much-hoped for Santa rally?” Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst
at IG Markets in London, wrote in an e-mail. “U.S. housing
figures came in above expectations, showing good growth for this
long-dormant market.”  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report today showed that
builders began work on the most houses in more than a year in
November. Starts increased 9.3 percent to a 685,000 annual rate,
topping the highest estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Building permits, a proxy for future construction, also
climbed to a more than one-year high.  Consumer Confidence  In the U.K.,  consumer confidence  rose in November from a
record low as Britons’ expectations for the economy improved in
the run-up to Christmas,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  German business confidence unexpectedly rose for a second
month in December, suggesting Europe’s largest economy is
weathering the euro area’s debt crisis. The Ifo institute’s
 business climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
rose to 107.2 from 106.6 in November, the Munich-based institute
said. Economists had predicted a drop to 106, the  median of 36
forecasts  in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
that substantial risks to the economy remain and the law forbids
him from increasing government-bond purchases to fight the
crisis.  Rio Tinto added 2.3 percent to 3,096 pence.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ) 
climbed 4.2 percent to 886.5 pence.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) 
increased 3.2 percent to 6,700 pence. Gold, copper and nickel
all rallied in London.  Aggreko Advances  Aggreko gained 6.6 percent to 1,970 pence as Citigroup
recommended buying the shares, citing “impressive local
business momentum.”  AstraZeneca slid 1.5 percent to 2,905 pence, its biggest
drop since Nov. 21, as the drugmaker said core earnings per
share for the year will probably be “in the lower half” of its
$7.20 to $7.40 forecast.  The company will take a charge of $381.5 million in the
fourth quarter after two experimental medicines had
disappointing results, London-based AstraZeneca said.  SVG Capital Plc (SVI)  surged 21 percent to 200 pence. The biggest
backer of private-equity firm Permira Advisers LLP said it will
return 170 million pounds ($267 million) to shareholders and
will widen its range of investments to include other buyout
firms.  WSP Group Plc (WSH) , an engineering company, soared 26 percent to
202 pence after saying trading for the year will be in line with
forecasts and signing a new banking facility.  A bid for WSP “from a major international consultancy
remains a possibility,” Michael Parkinson, an analyst at Brewin
Dolphin Holdings Plc, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  