-- American Residents Flee Coasts for Interior U.S. Offering ‘Gigantic Raise’
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2011-12-20T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/u-s-population-migrates-for-income-boost.html
New York,  California  and other high-
cost U.S. states may lose residents as the economy recovers,
continuing a trend during the past decade of Americans searching
for more affordable regions to settle.  The U.S. population climbed 9.7 percent from 2000 to 2010,
according to Census Bureau data. Five states -- Nevada, Arizona,
 Texas , Utah and Idaho -- grew at more than twice the national
pace, as California, the most-populous, had its smallest
increase ever, the data show.  The Northeast states of New York,  New Jersey , Rhode Island
and  Massachusetts  are among those that had population increases
of less than half the average. Though migration has slowed, the
effects of the economic downturn may rekindle movements away
from high-priced areas, said Joel Kotkin, author of “The Next
Hundred Million: America in 2050,” a book about demographics.  “If you move from  New York  to Houston, you just gave
yourself a gigantic raise,” Kotkin said in a telephone
interview. “As the country has become more stressed, people
have to move to those places where they can achieve a middle-
class lifestyle at a lower cost.”  Living With Parents  The average sale price of a single-family home in the area
including New York City was $464,900 at the end of September,
compared with $159,500 in the Houston region, according to
National Association of Realtors  data .  New York state has the fifth-highest income-tax rate in the
U.S., while Texas is one of seven with no personal income tax.
California is third-most, at 6.7 percent, trailing only Hawaii
and  Oregon .  About 1 in 9 people, or 11.6 percent, changed locations
between 2010 and 2011, the lowest total since the government
began tracking the figure in 1948, census data show. Men 25 to
34 years old, who are usually among the most frequent migrants,
have increasingly opted to live with their parents during the
past five years, according to government  figures .  “A lot of people who would have been out-migrants have not
yet left home,” said  William Frey , a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution in  Washington  who has studied census data
for more than three decades. “There is this pent-up demand for
migration, and it could be that once things pick up, there will
be an exodus again from these places.”  Californian Culture  Rich Karlgaard, publisher of Forbes Magazine, wrote in his
2004 book, “Life 2.0,” that Americans would leave cities such
as New York,  Boston ,  San Francisco  and  Los Angeles  for smaller
towns in Oregon, Missouri and North Dakota.  The population in Los Angeles, the second-largest U.S.
city, grew 2.6 percent between 2000 and 2010, the census data
show. The population in Santa Barbara, about 90 miles northwest
of Los Angeles along the Pacific coast,  fell  4.2 percent, while
inland cities including Fresno and Sacramento experienced growth
of 16 percent and 15 percent, respectively.  Overall, California’s population climbed 10 percent. The
Census Bureau on Dec. 21 plans to release July 1, 2011, state
population estimates.  Californians have made Oregon a top moving destination,
behind Nevada,  Arizona  and Texas, according to Internal Revenue
Service data compiled by  Aaron Renn , who examines migration
trends for his website Urbanophile.com. His data uses the number
of exemptions claimed on tax returns for filers moving between
states as a proxy for people.  Similar Culture  Moves deep into the interior U.S. from the coasts have been
less frequent, according to the IRS data. California natives
prefer destinations such as Phoenix, Salt Lake City and Seattle
over areas in the Midwest because of similarities with the
climate and demographics, Kotkin said.  “It’s not just going to where prices are the lowest,” he
said. “It’s about the places that are the nicest, that are
relatively cheaper, and that have similar culture.”  Wall Street  may cut an additional 10,000 jobs by the end of
2012, New York Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said in October.  New
York City  weathered the recession that started in December 2007
better than other major cities because of its large banking
industry, which was cushioned by the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, Kotkin said.  New Yorkers affected by reductions in financial services
may move to “safety valves” like eastern  Pennsylvania  or
upstate New York, the Brookings Institution’s Frey said. Still,
recent college graduates may opt to “ride things out” in the
city to position themselves for an economic recovery, he said.  Cost of Living  Karlgaard’s book examined the difference between working
where you live and living where you work. He argued in 2004 that
because of real estate prices, traffic and higher costs of
living, “a growing number of Americans are seeking a larger
life in smaller places.”  For Wall Street traders and analysts, software developers
and biochemists, location choices are much broader than “a guy
with a B.A.,” Kotkin said. The unemployment  rate  in New York in
October was 7.9 percent, compared with the national mark of 9
percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Nevada  has the highest  unemployment rate  at 13.4 percent.
Average  home prices  in the Las Vegas area plummeted to $138,000
in 2010 from $220,500 in 2008, the second-biggest decline behind
Fort Meyers,  Florida , according to NAR data.  “A lot of the jobs in Nevada, Arizona, and Florida were
related to the growth itself -- construction and retail,” Frey
said. “Once the economy stopped, the growth stopped.”  As housing prices continue to slide, future construction
 stagnates  and unemployment remains elevated, would-be migrants
may stay put against their will, Frey said. This will give
places like New York and Los Angeles another chance to appeal to
residents “stuck” with unsellable homes.  “When migration picks up, to what degree will there still
be this gulf between where the middle class can afford to live
and where they can’t?” Frey said. “Coastal California will
likely still be out of a lot of middle-class homeowners’ reach,
as will living in the more expensive parts of the Northeast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  