-- U.S. Can Gain by Engaging New North Korean Hermit-in-Chief: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-20T00:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/u-s-can-gain-by-engaging-new-north-korean-hermit-in-chief-view.html
With the death of  Kim Jong Il , the world is both a better and a more dangerous
place. Better, because over his nearly two-decade rule
of North Korea, Kim Jong Il killed or brutalized
millions of his countrymen, illicitly spread nuclear
technology and stoked regional tension and conflict.
More dangerous, because Kim’s heir apparent, his son Kim Jong Un, is untested and unknown.  Rumor has it that Kim Jong Un likes American
basketball and expensive sneakers. He may be 28, or he
may be 29. He may speak passable English and German. He
may or may not command the military’s full support. But
one thing we do know: in November 2010, two months
after he was designated his father’s successor,  North
Korea  launched an artillery barrage on a South Korean
island, killing four people -- one of the most brazen
attacks since the  Korean War , and one that came on the
heels of the March 2010 sinking of a South Korean
patrol boat in which 46 sailors died.  Kim Jong Il’s death is likely to cause the North
Korean regime to close ranks and focus on cementing his
son’s succession. Although there is always the chance
of some provocation, the regime’s focus will likely be
on maintaining stability and observing an extended
mourning period for the now-departed “Dear Leader.”  Forward-Looking Diplomacy  Yet that’s no reason for the U.S. not to remain
forward-leaning in its engagement with North Korea.
Just prior to Kim Jong Il’s death, the U.S. was on the
verge of announcing the resumption of food aid to North
Korea, a decision that was to have been followed by a
North Korean agreement not to enrich uranium. The Barack Obama administration is now apparently planning to defer
that announcement. But why not proceed?  Yes, the North Koreans might, in this sensitive
period, resist the monitoring regime that was to
accompany such assistance. Yet going ahead with the
gesture would be more than a sign of goodwill. In fact,
if the Obama administration had decided to proceed with
the aid earlier this year, it would have had more eyes
and ears on the ground during this delicate transition.  And as to goodwill, the U.S. can surely come up
with an artfully worded condolence statement -- as it
did in 1994, at the death of the nation’s founder,   Kim Il Sung  -- that conveys American sympathies to the North
Korean people and expresses hope for a brighter future.
And better to do so sooner than later. Words matter:
When the State Department spokesperson says that the
U.S. wants to make sure that food aid doesn’t end up
“on some leader’s banquet table,” it makes for a snappy
domestic sound bite but lousy diplomacy.  Of course, every positive gesture to the North runs
the risk of alienating  South Korea . Ensuring that this
key ally feels secure and appreciated is essential, and
will require a diplomatic balancing act. After last
year’s deadly incidents, South Korean officials
informed their U.S. counterparts that they were weary
of tit-for-tat, and would likely respond
disproportionately to future provocations. This is
worrisome: As with the prospect of an Israeli attack on
 Iran , a spontaneous outbreak of hostilities on the
Korean peninsula is a nightmare scenario for U.S.
military planners.  Keeping Things Calm  The U.S. must persuade the South that the more the
outside world can engage constructively with North
Korea in these crucial months ahead, the better.  China ,
which used to boast that its relations with North Korea
were “closer than lips and teeth,” has a strong
interest in seeing that the incoming regime does not
lash out. But over the long run, North Korea’s
neighbors and the U.S. will not benefit if a weak and
dependent Kim Jong Un effectively turns his country
into a Chinese client state.  Broader contacts, whether through talks between the
U.S. and North Korean militaries on repatriating the
remains of U.S. soldiers, limited foreign investment in
special export zones like the Kaesong Industrial
Complex, or humanitarian assistance provided by
nongovernmental organizations, are more likely than
isolation to ensure peace on the peninsula and to
increase the chances that the future of North Korea’s
people is brighter than their past.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 