-- Payroll Vote Delayed a Day as House Republicans Revolt Over Senate’s Deal
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2011-12-20T15:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/u-s-house-vote-on-payroll-tax-cut-to-be-delayed-to-tomorrow-dreier-says.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
lurched toward a showdown over an expiring  payroll tax  cut,
escalating a legislative fight that may result in smaller
paychecks in January for 160 million workers.  The Republican-controlled House is scheduled to vote today
to reject a bipartisan Senate plan that would extend the
expiring tax cut and other provisions for two months. House
leaders said the stopgap measure was unworkable and wouldn’t
provide enough certainty for businesses. Democrats said
Republicans were bowing to Tea Party resistance.  “Our members do not want to just punt and do a two-month
short-term fix where we just have to do this again,” House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said yesterday as he
called for negotiations between the House and the Senate.  With 11 days before the two-percentage-point  tax cut 
expires, lawmakers are sticking to their positions in a
political messaging battle that both sides say they are winning.
Neither side gave any ground yesterday. If neither budges, the
tax cut will end Dec. 31.  House Republicans slammed the Senate, saying lawmakers in
both parties there were too eager to get out of Washington for
the holiday recess and too unwilling to negotiate a yearlong
extension. The House on Dec. 13 passed a bill that extends the
 payroll tax cut  and expanded unemployment benefits through 2012.
It includes a provision that would prevent doctors from seeing
their Medicare reimbursements cut starting in January.  ‘Bad Deal’  “They took an awfully bad deal,” Representative Mike Simpson, an Idaho Republican, said of the Senate. “They need to
come back and go to work. There’s time to do it.”  House Democrats  painted their Republican colleagues as
unwilling to do what is necessary to prevent a tax increase for
U.S. workers.  “What we see now is stalling action on the part of those
who were never for a payroll tax cut in the first place,” House
Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California told reporters last
night. “Republicans do not want a payroll tax cut for the
middle class.”  Economists at Deutsche Bank Securities estimate that
extending the tax cut would add 0.7 percent to the U.S. gross
domestic product in 2012. The effect could shrink depending on
whether energy prices increase.  Vote Delayed  The House had planned to vote last night on the Senate-
passed bill. As a meeting of  House Republicans  dragged past 8
p.m. in Washington, their leaders rescheduled the vote for
today. They also structured the question facing the House so
that Republicans will be the ones casting “yes” votes to seek
a conference with the Senate on the bill rather than casting
“no” votes under a previously planned procedure.  Under the previous plan, if enough Republicans had
defected, the short-term extension would have passed. Under the
new plan, Republican defections would result in the House taking
no action.  The House will first vote on that framework this morning
before holding a vote midday on whether to formally disagree
with the Senate bill and request a conference with Senate
lawmakers to resolve the stalemate. Senator  Charles Schumer  said
Democratic leaders in his chamber aren’t interested in
participating in a conference committee.  “The conference committee is a graveyard, and Democrats,
and a good number of Republicans, won’t fall for that ploy,”
the New York Democrat said on MSNBC today.  Crossing the Aisle  Pelosi said she thought Republicans made the change because
they were worried that enough of their members would vote with
the Democrats to support the Senate bill. She also blamed
“radical Tea Party Republicans” for the stalemate.  As evidence House Republicans don’t actually favor a
payroll tax cut, House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer of  Maryland 
quoted Boehner as saying on June 16 that extending it was
“another little short-term gimmick” that wouldn’t eliminate
uncertainty for business investors.  Senate Democrats  continued to resist Boehner’s call for a
House-Senate conference. They said they wouldn’t begin those
talks until the House passed the two-month extension to stave
off the Dec. 31 expiration.  “With millions of Americans struggling to make ends meet,
it would be unconscionable for Speaker Boehner to block a
bipartisan agreement that would protect middle-class families
from the thousand-dollar tax increase looming on Jan. 1,”
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said in a
statement yesterday. “It is time for Speaker Boehner to follow
through.”  House Bill  The $202.4 billion House bill provided a yearlong extension
of the expiring provisions. Republicans covered the cost to the
Treasury with a variety of spending cuts and revenue increases,
including a pay freeze for federal civilian employees, Medicare
premium increases for high-income taxpayers and the sale of
portions of the wireless spectrum. The House bill also would
have cut the maximum length of expanded unemployment benefits to
59 weeks from 99 weeks and allowed states to conduct drug tests
for benefits recipients.  Senate leaders tried Dec. 16 to negotiate a bipartisan
agreement, and they discussed a yearlong extension as well as an
11-month version that would push further decisions past the
presidential election in November 2012. They disagreed about how
to pay for the bill, with Republicans favoring spending cuts and
Democrats supporting a surtax on incomes exceeding $1 million.  The Senate-passed $33 billion, two-month agreement was paid
for by raising the guarantee fees that  Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac 
and the Federal Housing Administration charge to lenders for new
mortgages.  The plan passed the Senate 89-10 on Dec. 17 with the
backing of Republican leaders. Republicans claimed credit for
adding language that would require President  Barack Obama  to
decide within 60 days whether to approve a permit for
TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL oil pipeline from  Canada .  The bill is HR 3630.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  