-- Hulic’s Shoei Takeover Underscores Woes of Japan Builders
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2011-12-21T06:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/hulic-s-takeover-of-shoei-shows-financing-woes-of-japan-builders.html
Hulic Co.’s takeover of  Shoei Co .,
in a transaction estimated at 268.7 billion yen ($3.4 billion),
underscores the plight of smaller Japanese builders struggling
to survive as loans dry up.  Shoei will swap three of its shares for each Hulic stock in
the biggest deal among the nation’s developers in at least 10
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shoei,
established in 1931, plans to transfer 493.9 million shares, the
Tokyo-based companies said in a statement yesterday. They are
worth 268.7 billion yen based on Shoei’s closing price Dec. 19.  Japan ’s smaller real estate companies are being starved of
cash to develop projects because banks are reluctant to lend
after loans climbed following a rush to amass land as prices
rebounded in 2007 for the first time in 15 years. Debt at about
a third of the 150 publicly traded Japanese real estate
companies is more than twice their equity, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s a level that may trigger more
bankruptcies, said Nobuo Tomoda,  executive director  at Tokyo
Shoko Research Ltd.  “Our counterpart is in financial trouble,” Shin Ito, a
spokesman at Hulic, said yesterday. “They had a hard time
getting loans from banks. They want to clean up the assets and
start again.”  Hulic Gains  Hulic shares surged 5.6 percent to 890 yen in  Tokyo  trading,
the biggest gain in almost four months. Shoei, which jumped 12
percent yesterday after a Nikkei report on the merger, plunged
16 percent to 508 yen, a record decline.  Suncity Co., a Tokyo-based condominium builder, filed for
protection from creditors in September after accumulating 25
billion yen of debt.  The supply of apartments was cut to about half of the 10-
year average of more than 81,000 since lenders began tightening
loans after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008, according to the Japan Real Estate Economic Institute.  “Smaller developers want to expand their business,” said
 Masahiro Mochizuki , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Tokyo. “With no profit increase, they can’t expand their asset
size. To build an apartment, they have to buy land in advance,
but banks are not lending money to those companies.”  The seven-biggest builders took a 51 percent share of
Japan’s condominium market in 2010, up from 30 percent three
years earlier, according to Credit Suisse.  Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) 
and Sumitomo Realty & Development Co., the country’s largest and
third-largest developers, are forecasting profit gains for the
year ending March 2012 even as the record earthquake on March 11
disrupted sales.  ‘Not Alone’  Japan’s real estate market picked up in 2007, prompting
builders such as Suncity to buy more land by borrowing more than
they could repay. Investment in property funds nearly doubled to
11 trillion yen in 2007, a record high, according to STB
Research Institute Co.  “We are not alone,” Tadao Nakai, a director at Suncity,
said in an interview. “Real estate developers without strong
financial backing will be filing for some kind of corporate
protection in coming months.”  More than 1,500 real estate companies filed for  bankruptcy
protection  since the collapse of  Lehman Brothers , according to
Tokyo Shoko. At least 25 of them were publicly traded firms,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Properst Co., a builder of condominiums in the Tokyo
metropolitan area, finished the legal process of corporate
rehabilitation in February after filing for bankruptcy in May
2010. It was the only company in Japan to remain publicly traded
after filing for bankruptcy, according to Tokyo Shoko.  More Mergers  New City Residence Investment Corp. became Japan’s first
failed real estate investment trust when it collapsed in October
2008 with liabilities of 112.4 billion yen. At the time, it
cited difficulties in raising funds and selling properties
because of the impact of the global financial crisis on the
Japanese real-estate market.  Urban Life Co. (8851)  shifted its focus to office and apartment
leasing, and brokerage for existing units, from project
development, Manabu Sakui, a spokesman at the company, said in
an interview. The Kobe-based company with a market value of 1
billion yen has a debt-to-equity ratio of 94, the highest among
150 real estate companies in Japan, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Losing Money  “We have been losing money in the past years due to the
deterioration of the real estate market and overall business
condition,” Sakui said. “By realigning our business strategy,
we hope to lower the debt and improve our financial situation.”  Shoei, which owns office buildings, hotels and apartments,
had a net loss of 1.9 billion yen for the nine months to Sept.
30. Hulic reported a profit of 6.55 billion yen for the period.  The deal between Hulic, with a market value of 153 billion
yen, and Shoei, with 21 billion yen, will take effect July 1.
Hulic’s shares will be delisted and the new company will be
called  Hulic Co. (3265)  Shareholders will decide on the deal at the end
of March, the Tokyo-based companies said yesterday.  The deal may mark the start of other mergers, said Hideyuki Shinkai, a  fund manager  at Norinchukin Trust & Banking Co. in
Tokyo.  “A slowdown of business condition is forming outside and
within Japan,” said Shinkai. “We may see more small to medium
real estate companies seeking mergers or form alliance to
survive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  