-- UN Must Aid Return of Refugees to Abyei in Sudan, Amnesty Says
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2011-12-20T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/un-must-aid-return-of-refugees-to-abyei-in-sudan-amnesty-says.html
The  United Nations  must accelerate
efforts to help more than 100,000 people return to their homes
in Abyei, a region claimed by  Sudan  and South Sudan,  Amnesty
International  said.  “The Sudanese Army and allied militia have driven
virtually the entire population out of Abyei and burned down
their homes so as to prevent their return,” Donatella Rovera,
London-based Amnesty International’s senior crisis response
adviser, said today in an e-mailed statement.  A 4,200-member United Nations mission hasn’t fully deployed
in Abyei since the  Security Council  approved it on June 27.
Sudan agreed to withdraw its soldiers from the area once the
full UN contingent arrived and an interim administration is in
place. Sudan’s army seized the main town in Abyei on May 21
after accusing the south’s army of attacking its troops.  Abyei is one of several disputes threatening to spark
conflict between Sudan and its newly independent southern
neighbor. Fighting between President Umar al-Bashir’s government
in Khartoum and rebels it says  South Sudan  backs has intensified
in border states since the south seceded on July 9.  The countries are also negotiating over fees the south
should pay the north for sending its crude exports to  Port Sudan 
on the  Red Sea . South Sudan assumed control of three-quarters of
the former unified state’s oil production of almost 490,000
barrels a day when it became independent.  Untenable Situation  “The situation is untenable and adds to the already
considerable tensions between the two countries,” UN Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon said in a Nov. 27 report to the Security
Council.  Since Sudan seized Abyei, most of the residents of the main
town have fled south where they “are living in dire
conditions,” Amnesty said. “Charred homes and the shells of
looted buildings testify to the horrors that took place in
Abyei, which is now a ghost town.”  Sudan’s Foreign Ministry spokesman, al-Obeid Murawih,
didn’t answer calls seeking comment.  A referendum in Abyei scheduled in January on whether to
join the south or remain a special administrative region in the
north was canceled because of disagreements over who was
eligible to vote.  Abyei is contested between the region’s Ngok Dinka people,
who are settled in the area and consider themselves southerners,
and Misseriya nomads who herd their cattle south in the dry
season and are supported by the government in Khartoum.  The Permanent Court of Arbitration in  The Hague , in a 2009
ruling, set Abyei’s borders to the area around Ngok Dinka
settlements. That largely excluded the Misseriya, who say that
as seasonal inhabitants of the area, they should also have the
right to vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  