-- Hungary May Raise Highest EU Borrowing Costs Again as IMF Pressure Mounts
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2011-12-21T09:13:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/hungary-may-raise-eu-s-highest-rate-again-as-imf-pressure-mounts.html
Hungary  may need to raise the
European Union’s highest  benchmark interest rate  next year as
talks over a bailout stalled and the government and the central
bank spar over monetary-policy independence.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  increased the two-week deposit rate
by a half-point for a second month to 7 percent yesterday and
said it would raise borrowing costs further if country risk
worsens. Policy makers also considered a quarter-point increase.  The European Commission and the  International Monetary Fund 
suspended talks on a financial aid package to Hungary last week,
citing objections to a draft law on the central bank that they
say may undermine policy autonomy. The forint is the worst-
performing currency in the world since June 30, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “With the government at loggerheads with the central bank,
talks with the IMF seemingly having broken down and fresh signs
of strains in the  bond market , we think it would be premature to
rule out further, more aggressive, tightening over the coming
months,” William Jackson, a London-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd., said yesterday in an e-mailed note.  The forint weakened 0.1 percent to 300.70 per euro at 9:45
a.m. in Budapest. It has weakened 12.5 percent in the second
half of 2011, the worst performance among more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on Hungary’s
benchmark 3-year government bonds was 8.43 percent, compared
with 8.46 percent late yesterday.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps, which measure the cost of insuring
government debt against non-payment, dropped to 578 basis points
yesterday, compared with 583 basis points at the previous close,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
and compiles prices quoted by dealers.  The Ceska Narodni Banka in  Prague  has left the two-week
repurchase rate unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent since May
2010, a quarter-point below the  European Central Bank ’s main
refinancing rate after a 25 basis-point ECB cut this month.
 Russia ’s central bank last month left the refinancing rate at
8.25 percent and Romanian policy makers resumed cutting on Nov.
2, bringing borrowing costs to a record-low 6 percent.  Hungarian policy makers raised the benchmark rate for the
second consecutive month yesterday, boosting the benchmark rate
by 1 percentage point during that period. Another increase may
be needed if “risk perception and the outlook for inflation
deteriorate further substantially,” they said in a statement.  50 Basis Points  “Clearly the hurdle has been set a little higher now with
that statement,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London , said by e-mail. “We think our view
of things ‘getting worse before they get better’ with regards to
the IMF/EU and hence market moves and primary funding stress in
the first half all mean that the conditions will be right for a
50 basis-point hike between January and February.”  The rate increase “impedes Hungary’s healthy economic
growth and runs against EU trends,” the Economy Ministry in
Budapest said in an e-mailed statement after the decision. The
government estimates 0.5 percent growth in 2012, compared with a
0.1 percent growth forecast published today by the central bank.
The inflation rate may average 5 percent in 2012, before falling
to the central bank’s 3 percent target in first half of 2013.  The ministry’s statement is “unacceptable” and shows the
government doesn’t understand the notion of central bank
independence, something that’s also reflected in the draft law,
the regulator’s President  Andras Simor  said yesterday.  ‘Serious Doubts’  The IMF and the EU cited the draft legislation as they
broke off talks with Hungary last week on an aid package, which
the government requested last month after the forint fell to a
record against the euro and before Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded the country’s credit grade to junk.  “The commission has indeed serious doubts” about the
central bank law and Commission President  Jose Barroso  conveyed
his “strong concerns” in a letter to Orban, spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  While the ruling party has made positive changes to the
draft, they failed to address some of the ECB’s key concerns,
including on the need to expand the rate-setting Monetary
Council and on adding a vice president, Simor said yesterday,
adding that the changes may be aimed at influencing decision.  “The freeze of informal talks with the IMF/EU due to
disagreement on new central bank law confirms our view of a
bumpy road ahead to a new IMF agreement, with renewed pressure
on the currency in the coming 1-2 months,”  Eszter Gargyan , an
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Budapest, said by e-mail. “This
is likely to necessitate one more rate hike in January.”  ‘Very Negative Consequences’  Assuming the government agrees on an IMF program in the
first quarter of next year, the central bank may forego further
rate increases,  Gyula Toth , a Vienna-based strategist at
UniCredit SpA, said in an e-mail.  “The multiweek outlook of the Hungarian markets strongly
depends on the outcome of the forthcoming IMF/EU negotiations
and the rate hike in itself would not change the potential very
negative consequences in case those talks fail,” Toth said.
“From here our baseline assumes unchanged rates until the end
of 2012, but this also incorporates an IMF/EU agreement reached
in the first quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  