-- Hungary Increases EU’s Highest Interest Rates After IMF Talks on Aid Stall
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2011-12-20T15:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/hungary-increases-eu-s-highest-interest-rates-after-imf-talks-on-aid-stall.html
Hungary ’s central bank raised the
European Union’s highest  benchmark interest rate  after bailout
talks were suspended, indicating policy makers may raise
borrowing costs further if risk perception worsens.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  raised the benchmark two-week
deposit rate by a half-point for a second month to 7 percent
today, matching the estimate of 15 of 22  economists surveyed  by
Bloomberg. Rate setters also considered a quarter-point
increase, central bank President Andras Simor told reporters.  Policy makers last month raised the benchmark rate for the
first time since January and said they were ready for further
increases if warranted by the outlook for inflation and risk
perception. The forint weakened on Dec. 16, when the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund  interrupted talks with
Hungary after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  moved to curb the
central bank’s independence.  “With the talks on IMF support on hold, one of the few
means of leverage the central bank has to stabilize domestic
markets is the benchmark interest rate, which they may continue
to hike early next year if tensions persist,” Aurelija Augulyte, an economist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhangen, wrote
by e-mail after the decision.  Forint, Bonds, CDS  The forint strengthened 1 percent to 300.04 per euro at
4:12 p.m. in Budapest. It has weakened 11 percent in the second
half of 2011, the worst performance among more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Hungary’s benchmark 3-year
government bonds advanced, cutting the yield 0.08 percentage
points to 8.46 percent.  Credit-default swaps, which measure the cost of insuring
government debt against non-payment, traded at 583 basis points
yesterday, compared with 585 basis points at the end of last
month, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers.  “If risk perception and the outlook for inflation
deteriorate further substantially, then further interest-rate
increases may be needed,” the rate-setting Monetary Council
said in a statement after the rate decision. Policy makers
backed a half-point raise with a “significant majority,” Simor
said.  The decision to raise  interest rates  “impedes Hungary’s
healthy economic growth and runs against EU trends,” the
Economy Ministry in Budapest said in an e-mailed statement after
the decision. The government estimates 0.5 percent growth in
2012, compared with a 0.1 percent growth forecast published
today by the central bank.  Eastern European Rates  The Ceska Narodni Banka in  Prague  has left the two-week
repurchase rate unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent since May
2010, a quarter of a percentage point below the  European Central
Bank ’s main refinancing rate after a 25 basis-point ECB cut this
month.  Russia ’s central bank last month left the refinancing
rate at 8.25 percent and Romanian policy makers resumed cutting
on Nov. 2, bringing borrowing costs to a record-low 6 percent.  Hungary’s forward-rate agreements used to bet on three-
month interest costs in one month fell 17 basis points to 7.15
percent after reaching the highest since Sept. 2009 yesterday.
The Budapest Interbank Offered Rate, to which the FRAs settle,
traded at 7.01 percent.  ‘It Was Inevitable’  “It is too soon to declare an end to the cycle at this
point,” Zsolt Kondrat, Budapest-based head of research at
Bayerische Landesbank’s MKB Bank Zrt. unit, said in an e-mail
today. “As yield spreads remained elevated and the” forint’s
rate versus the euro “remained above 300 despite the rate hike
last month, it was inevitable for the central bank to hike rates
again.”  Consumer prices advanced 4.3 percent in November from a
year earlier, the most since April and faster than economists
forecast, after a 3.9 percent increase in October. The inflation
rate may average 5 percent in 2012, before falling to policy
makers’ 3 percent target in first half of 2013, Simor said.  Government criticism of monetary policy is “unfortunate”
and underscores how the Cabinet “doesn’t understand the notion
of central bank independence,” Simor said.  The disconnect is also reflected by the central bank draft
law, Simor said. In particular, the Cabinet’s drive to expand
the Monetary Council, name a new vice president and transfer
deputy nominations from the central bank’s head to the prime
minister and the nation’s president are problematic, he said.  ‘Serious Doubts’  The IMF and the EU cited the draft law for breaking off
talks with Hungary last week on an aid package. “The commission
has indeed serious doubts” about the central bank law and
Commission President  Jose Barroso  conveyed his “strong
concerns” in a letter to Orban, spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen told reporters in Brussels today.  “It’s unacceptable when government officials swear all the
time to respect the central bank’s independence and then do just
the opposite,” Simor said. “That’s what the central bank law
is about and that’s what this statement is about.”  The ruling Fidesz party today submitted amendments to the
draft law which was criticized by the ECB and the European
Commission for potentially hurting the bank’s independence.  The government failed to address some of the ECB’s key
concerns, including on the need to expand the rate-setting
Monetary Council and on adding a vice president, Simor said
today, adding that the changes may be aimed at influencing
decision-making at the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  