-- Muni Supply Will Increase by 10%, Deutsche Bank’s Pollack Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2011-12-20T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/muni-supply-will-increase-by-10-deutsche-bank-s-pollack-says.html
The municipal-bond market will
continue to experience record-low  interest rates  in the first
half of 2012, followed by higher yields if the  Federal Reserve 
implements a third round of asset purchases known as
quantitative easing, said Gary Pollack, head of fixed-income
trading at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s Private Wealth Management unit in
New York, which manages $12 billion in bonds.  He was interviewed at Deutsche Bank’s midtown office for
today’s issue of the Bloomberg Brief: Municipal Market
newsletter.  Q: What do you forecast for municipal-bond supply in 2012?  A: About $340 billion, or about a 10 percent increase from
this year. That’s due to rates remaining low, so you’ll see more
refinancing. That has been the big increase in 2011. And then
you’ll see some more capital projects getting financed with low
interest rates.  I’ve always said that capital financing of projects is a
good way to boost the local economy, so if you’re running for
re-election, why not build something? That’s what they’ve all
done in the past, dating back to the pharaohs.  Q: What revenue bonds do you like?  A: I love special-tax bonds. They don’t go through the
general operating fund of the municipality, so it removes the
risks of the operations of the municipality, like possible
downgrades or headline risk. And the coverage ratios are huge.  States like  Illinois ,  New York  and  California  have these.
Certain localities have it, like Washington D.C.,  New York City ,
and even  Puerto Rico  has a sales-tax bond. It’s great. I
couldn’t get enough. And it’s triple tax-exempt. So I like these
a lot.  Certainly I like water, sewer and electricity. Residents
have to pay -- otherwise they don’t get their service. And
during tough economic times, it’s a pretty inelastic demand.  Q: What universities do you like, and what were your
thoughts on century-bond sales this year?  A: In higher education, I like the larger universities and
colleges. Century bonds are a great from the issuer’s point of
view. But do you want to buy a 100-year bond when interest rates
are at their lowest level in the past 100 years? I wouldn’t do
that as an investor, but from their point of view, it’s great.  I’m sure there’s some pension fund out there that needs a
long-term liability who will match that with this asset. The
duration of a 100-year bond is not that much different than a
duration of a 30-year bond when you start to discount it.  Q: Do you like both public and private universities?  A: Yes I do. I like public ones like  Michigan ,  Texas  and
Cal. And the private ones, I like the 50 best schools in the
 United States , just because of the natural demand to go there,
both here in the U.S. and internationally. They really have a
monopoly on higher-education services, and it’s price-inelastic.  Q: Would you look at bonds like  Detroit ’s water system?  A: I tell my clients when we look at an essential-service
bond, we still look at the geographic and underlying economic
base of the issuer. If I don’t like that, I’m not going to buy
the water and sewer bond.  Now that might be foolish, but from a client point of view
it shows a conservative nature that we’re not going to take
undue risks, and that there’s plenty of other essential-service
revenue bonds I can buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  