-- Untested New North Korean Leader Extends Kim ‘Brand’ After Father’s Death
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2011-12-21T03:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/untested-new-north-korean-leader-extends-kim-brand-after-father-s-death.html
North  Korea ’s new leader looks like
his grandfather, went to school in  Switzerland  and reportedly
loves basketball star  Michael Jordan . Nothing is known about his
views on nuclear weapons, international relations, or fixing his
country’s crippled economy.  Kim Jong Un was designated the country’s successor on Dec.
19 after the totalitarian state announced the death of his
father, Kim Jong Il. Thought to be in his late 20s, Jong Un was
named to senior military and party posts last year, the first
official notice that he was being groomed to take over.  While Kim has spent most of his life in North Korea, he
studied in Switzerland in the 1990s. He was designated successor
in 2009, a U.S. official said, speaking on condition of
anonymity. The third son of the deceased dictator, Kim Jong Un
was the favorite, according to a Japanese chef who wrote a  book 
about his 13 years of cooking for  Kim Jong Il  in Pyongyang.  “He was unknown until two years ago,” said  Michael Green ,
senior director of Asian affairs at the National Security
Council under President  George W. Bush  and now at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “There are
questions about whether enough legwork was done to keep him
going. One question now is will Kim Jong Un and others around
him do something to prove he’s in command.”  Constant Struggle  He inherits an economy where 24 million people suffer from
chronic malnutrition and are taught to believe the country is in
a constant struggle with South Korea, the U.S. and Japan after
the 1950-53  Korean War  ended without a peace treaty.  North Korea 
refuses to abandon its nuclear weapons program in the face of
global sanctions and relies on outside handouts to survive,
primarily from  China , its biggest trading partner.  Kim Jong Il in September 2010 made Kim Jong Un a four-star
general and elevated allies to act as his son’s guardians,
including sister Kim Kyong Hui and brother-in-law Jang Song Thaek. The country’s stability may turn on whether the family
and the military are confident that the younger Kim can extend
the dynasty started by his grandfather  Kim Il Sung , who founded
the nation after World War II.  One month after his promotion, Jong Un stood next to his
father at a military parade wearing a black suit with a mandarin
collar similar to the style worn by his grandfather. He also
emulated Kim Il Sung’s slicked-back hairstyle rather than the
bouffant favored by his father.  ‘The Kim Brand’  “Jong Un’s main claim to leadership is that he looks very
similar to his grandfather,” said Bradley K. Martin, author of
“Under the Loving Care of the Fatherly Leader: North Korea and
the  Kim Dynasty ” and a former reporter for Bloomberg News.
“What you have here is branding. The Kim brand.”  Kim Jong Un attended a ceremony where his father’s body lay
in state yesterday and mourned, the state-run Korean  Central
News Agency  said. A funeral will be on Dec. 28 followed by a
national memorial service the next day. Kim Kyong Hui and Jang
Song Thaek were among those named to the funeral committee.  Jong Un and his older brother, Kim Jong Chol, were born to
Kim Jong Il’s companion, Ko Young Hee. The eldest son, Kim Jong
Nam, who had a different mother, fell out of favor after he was
caught trying to enter  Japan  in 2001 using a fake passport. Kim
Jong Chol was deemed too unhealthy and mentally weak to be
picked, Yonhap News said after Jong Un was promoted last year.  “Jong Un is very similar to his father, even his physical
shape,” Japanese sushi chef Kenji Fujimoto wrote in his book,
“Kim Jong-Il: North Korea’s Dear Leader.”  Basketball Bond  A Portuguese man named Joao Micaelo attended a school
called the  Liebefeld Steinhoelzli  in Berne, Switzerland with Kim
Jong Un, who at the time was called Pak Un. The two bonded over
the difficulties of learning German and their passion for NBA
basketball and Michael Jordan, Micaelo told newspapers last year
including the  Daily Telegraph .  School head Peter Burri said in an interview last year that
a North Korean named Pak Un was a student in the mid-1990’s,
without confirming any other details.  “From what I’ve heard, he was an open and interesting
young kid when he was in Switzerland,” former U.S. ambassador
to  South Korea  Donald Gregg said in a television interview. “He
knows a great deal more about the west than either his father or
grandfather did.”  Supreme Commander  Jong Un didn’t take his father’s place as supreme commander
of the army, head of the National Defense Commission or general
secretary of the Workers’ Party of Korea. Kim Jong Il took three
years after his father died in 1994 before formally assuming the
country’s highest posts.  Tensions on the peninsula have risen since North Korean
attacks last year on a warship and a disputed island that killed
50 South Koreans. The Obama administration, which along with the
 United Nations  increased  sanctions  after the incidents, resumed
direct talks with North Korea in October on dismantling its
nuclear program, including work on a light-water atomic reactor
that the Korean Central News Agency said on Nov. 30 was
“progressing apace.”  North Korea’s economy shrank in 2010 for the second year in
a row, according to South Korea’s central bank. The North’s
nominal gross domestic product totaled 30 trillion won ($25.5
billion) last year, compared with South Korea’s 1,173 trillion
won, the central bank said in November.  “It’s up to Kim Jong Un to try and seize control,” said
Daniel Pinkston, a senior analyst at the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group . “This process has been well under
way. Kim Jong Il would not select someone who was totally
incompetent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  