-- Venezuela’s Chavez to Make First Trip Abroad Since Cancer
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2011-12-20T05:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/venezuela-s-chavez-to-make-first-trip-abroad-since-cancer.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said he will travel to Montevideo for a meeting of the Mercosur
trade bloc today, his first trip abroad since declaring victory
over an undisclosed cancer.  “Now I feel in the right condition to go,” Chavez said in
a four-hour speech during a Cabinet meeting broadcast on state
television last night. Chavez hasn’t left Venezuela since
returning from medical exams in Cuba on Oct. 20 and declaring
himself cured of cancer.  Chavez, 57, canceled a trip to Argentina and  Brazil  on Dec.
9 to deal with heavy rains hitting the South American country.
Chavez missed Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s inauguration and a meeting with former Brazilian
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  in  Sao Paulo .  After speculation that the trip cancellation signaled
deteriorating health in the former paratrooper, Chavez has
spoken publicly for a total of nineteen hours during a 10-day
period.  Chavez said he plans to push for Venezuela’s entry into
Mercosur at today’s meeting and criticized the Paraguayan
parliament’s attempts at blocking his country’s incorporation.  The South American leader, who was diagnosed with an
undisclosed type of cancer in June and had a baseball-size tumor
removed in Cuba, has expressed solidarity with Lula, who is
receiving treatment for throat cancer.  Chavez has said he expects to hold a summit of Latin
American leaders who have defeated cancer along with  Paraguay ’s
Fernando Lugo and current Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  