-- Venizelos: Accord Is Near on Greek Debt Swap
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2011-12-20T15:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/venizelos-accord-is-near-on-greek-debt-swap.html
Greece  may complete a debt-swap
agreement with creditors soon, paving the way for more
international financing needed to prevent economic collapse.  “We are close to an agreement on PSI” -- or private-
sector involvement, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said in
a speech in  Athens  today. “I believe this. And it is feasible
if our partners respect the accord of Oct. 26 and Oct. 27.”  Greece’s debt is forecast to balloon to almost double the
size of its shrinking economy next year without a write-off
accord with investors, the  International Monetary Fund  said Dec.
13. The swap, part of a 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) second
bailout agreement for Greece, is supposed to help reduce its
debt to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  The country’s 206 billion euros of privately held debt
would be reduced by 50 percent under an agreement announced at
an Oct. 26 summit of European leaders in Brussels.  The government and bondholders reached an initial agreement
on some of the terms of a swap at meetings in Paris last week,
website Euro2day reported today, without citing anyone. They
agreed the new bonds would be governed by British law and that
they would contain clauses for greater returns if economic
growth outperforms projections, the website said.  Bondholders have proposed the new notes carry a coupon of 4
percent for the first three years, 4.5 percent for the next five
years and 5 percent thereafter, the website said. No agreement
has been reached on that proposal, Euro2day said. That proposal
means an effective net present value loss of 65 percent, the
website said.  Investor Committee  A  steering committee  was formed last month by a private
creditor-investor group to hold negotiations on the swap with
Greek and European authorities. Creditors are working with the
advisers to limit their losses in a debt restructuring after
already agreeing to accept a 50 percent writedown on the face
value of their Greek sovereign holdings.  The steering committee includes representatives from  Axa
SA (CS) , Commerzbank AG, ING Groep NV and National Bank of Greece SA,
and is co-chaired by  Charles Dallara , managing director of the
Institute of International Finance industry group, and  Jean Lemierre , a senior adviser to the chairman at BNP Paribas SA,
according to a Nov. 28 statement from the IIF.  Dallara, contacted by phone, declined to comment on
Venizelos’s statement today.  The IIF, representing more than 450 financial firms, agreed
in October in Brussels with European leaders to accept the
writedown on their Greek holdings to help the country recover.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  