-- WestLB Wins EU Approval for German State Aid, Break-Up Plan
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2011-12-20T15:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/westlb-wins-eu-approval-for-german-state-aid-break-up-plan-1-.html
WestLB AG , a state-owned German
lender bailed out during the financial crisis, won European
Union approval for its rescue by the German government after it
agreed to be wound down and broken up.  The European Commission in Brussels said it authorized 11
billion euros ($14.4 billion) in state aid for the transfer of
assets to a bad bank after WestLB and its shareholders agreed to
a restructuring plan to shrink into a so-called Verbundbank that
will serve regional savings banks.  The plan “closes this chapter once and for all in the
interest of a healthy and undistorted competition between banks
and of the taxpayers themselves who have already paid a high
price,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in an
e-mailed statement today.  The commission decision on WestLB ends one of its longest-
running banking state-aid cases. The Brussels watchdog is
responsible for scrutinizing large state payments to lenders
that needed help during the financial crisis. It forced bailed-
out banks to shrink balance sheets and change the way they do
business to mitigate market distortions caused by billions of
euros in government subsidies and guarantees.  ‘More Optimistic’  Almunia said he was also a “little bit more optimistic”
about negotiations on the restructuring plan of Munich-based
 Bayerische Landesbank , the last German government-owned bank to
require EU approval for a 2008 state bailout.  “Some discussions” are still needed on sharing
restructuring costs between shareholders and the regional
government, he told reporters. The timing of an EU decision on
BayernLB “does not depend on us, it depends on them,” Almunia
said. “We cannot decide on their behalf.”  The approval of WestLB’s aid is “important” for securing
the financial system of  Germany , said Norbert Walter-Borjans,
the finance minister of the German state of North Rhine-
Westphalia, where WestLB is based.  Today’s decision heralds “painful job cuts” as well as
“necessary clarity” for customers, employees and investors on
the future of the bank, said WestLB Chief Executive Officer
Dietrich Voigtlaender in a statement on the bank’s website.  WestLB, the third-largest government-owned German bank,
needed bailouts from its owners, including the German state of
North Rhine Westphalia and the country’s federal government,
after running up losses in 2008.  Lending Unit  Under WestLB’s revamp, business related to savings banks,
which includes a lending unit that serves medium-size companies
and has a balance sheet of as much as 45 billion euros, will be
transferred to a new credit institution on June 30, the German
bank said earlier this year.  Operations that aren’t sold by June 30 will be transferred
to WestLB’s bad bank. North Rhine-Westphalia will take on the
ownership responsibility for the rest of the bank, while the
savings bank associations, which hold about 50 percent of the
lender, will cease to be shareholders.  WestLB’s real-estate unit, Westdeutsche Immobilien Bank,
may be transferred to the bad bank if it isn’t sold before mid-
2012, Almunia said.  WestLB said last week that the planned sale of the unit,
known as WestImmo, to  Apollo Global Management  failed because
the price was “not acceptable.” WestLB rejected other bids for
WestImmo causing the bank to miss a previous EU deadline to sell
the division by the end of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 