-- Why Finance Shouldn’t Be the Only Game in Town: Edward Glaeser
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2011-12-20T00:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/why-finance-shouldn-t-be-the-only-game-in-town-edward-glaeser.html
Every December, New York’s
salespeople dust off the  Chateau Petrus  and the Mercedes-Benz
AMG Roadsters in the hope that St. Nicholas, erstwhile  patron
saint  of the city, will drop big bonus checks into the stockings
of local financiers.  This year, the jolly old elf doesn’t seem to be spreading
his  largesse  too widely on Wall Street. Yet the city as a whole
seems to be weathering the financial decline better than one
might have expected, and with luck, New York will emerge from
this downturn as a more economically balanced city.  Historically, many of America’s great cities were dominated
by one or two great industries.  Detroit  had cars; Pittsburgh had
steel. For a few decades, these places flourished because of a
potent combination of natural resources, such as coal and iron,
hardy muscle and brilliant entrepreneurs, such as  Henry Ford  and
 Andrew Carnegie .  Yet while these industrial powerhouses were enormously
productive in the short run, their economic model proved less
robust over the long haul. When industrial conditions changed,
those cities lacked the skills, economic diversity and new
entrepreneurs that are the central ingredients of urban
reinvention.  Education  has proven critical for economic success, whether
at the individual, country or city level, and human capital has
been particularly important in the older cities of America’s
colder regions.  Entrepreneurship , measured by the number of
small companies or the share of workers in startups, strongly
predicts subsequent growth.  Bureaucratic Empire  Ford may have been a quintessential entrepreneur, but he
created a vast bureaucratic empire that bred company men, not
startups. His legacy was a one-industry town. And when that
industry faltered, there was little else for the city to do.  The urban-planning activist Jane Jacobs famously argued
that new ideas are formed by combining old ideas, and that the
industrial diversity of a city makes it easier for innovators to
import insights from one sector into another.  Fifty years ago, the economist  Benjamin Chinitz  compared
 New York  and Pittsburgh and argued that the former’s apparent
resilience, even then, reflected its economic history. That’s
because New York wasn’t dominated by a few companies in one
industry. The garment trade, the city’s largest industry,
specialized in small businesses and it usually accounted for
just three-tenths of manufacturing employment.  Since anyone with a good idea and a few sewing machines
could get started as a garment-maker, the industry proved a
training ground for entrepreneurs, including A.E. Lefcourt, New
York’s great pre-1929 skyscraper builder, and the father of the
former chairman of Citigroup Inc., Sanford Weill.  New York’s economy was a child of its  port . Blessed with a
splendid natural harbor, a central location on the Eastern
Seaboard and a deep river that cut into the American hinterland,
the port of New York had risen to pre-eminence by the early
decades of the 19th century.  The city’s three great 19th-century industries -- sugar-
refining, printing and publishing and the garment trade -- were
all offspring of that harbor. The financial-services industry,
from its origins under a buttonwood tree at the foot of  Wall
Street , started with investing in Atlantic trade and grew as the
connector between the U.S. and the outside world. J.P. Morgan
was a human bridge across the ocean, linking English investors
with American opportunities.  I was born in Manhattan in 1967, and the city at that time
had an astonishing array of industries. Even then, globalization
was causing clothing manufacturing to abandon New York, but the
sector still represented 27 percent of the city’s  manufacturing
employment .  Manufacturing’s Legacy  My childhood was enriched by the legacy of immigrant-
intensive light manufacturing. When I was five, I had a cigar-
rolling octogenarian baby-sitter who would serve me coffee,
after visiting her nephew’s garage and lighting a few candles in
a local chapel.  I was blessed with childhood friends whose parents
represented the wide range of industries clustered in the city.
New York had its share of big company men and women and an army
of lawyers who worked for those companies. Vast fortunes were
made and lost in real estate, whose great land barons then
looked down on the petty salaries earned in finance.  There were songwriters tied to Broadway and ad men
producing television commercials. The city was packed with
famous editors and publishers; in the 1970s, printing and
publishing became New York’s largest manufacturing industry.  My parents initially worked for non-profits, and museums,
universities and houses of worship remain among the city’s most
enduring institutions.  Although we lived in a small rent-stabilized apartment, I
was more than compensated by the benefit of being able to cause
trouble upstairs in the penthouse of a friend, whose diplomat
father represented  Sweden  on the  United Nations Security
Council .  In 1975, the fiscal crisis seemed to put New York in mortal
peril, but the city was still defended by a remarkable amount of
diverse human capital. Its comeback from 1975 to 2006 is one of
the great urban success stories, a tale of endurance in the
midst of enormous trial.  Many factors contributed to that achievement, including
improved fiscal management and vastly reduced crime. Without
safe streets, Manhattan could never have become a place of
pleasure as well as productivity.  Yet there is one industry, above all, that deserves credit
for New York’s rebirth: finance. At the same time, however, the
very scale of that industry’s success has left the city
vulnerable.  Finance Dominance  New York has never been a one-industry town, but in 2007,
42.8 percent of wages in  Manhattan  were earned in the finance
and insurance sector, and 31.6 percent of wages ($66 billion)
were paid by the sector that the  U.S. Census  calls “securities,
commodity contracts, investments.”  The great rise of finance reflects the urban edge in
speeding the flow of information, for that industry specializes
in turning information into profit. Trading floors, where
enormously rich people forgo the perquisites of privacy to be in
the thick of the action, represent the ultimate urban tradeoff:
space for knowledge.  Other industries remained, but finance became the leviathan
of Midtown and Wall Street, and its demand for space pushed
prices up for everyone else.  New York reaped enormous benefits from financial services,
whose taxes paid for city services. The financiers’ ability to
pay top dollar for Manhattan’s urban pleasures led to a
proliferation of high-end retail, from restaurants to shoe
stores, where employment increased by more than 20 percent from
1998 to 2007.  But when one industry succeeds, others are crowded out.
The number of  housing units  in Manhattan increased by about 6
percent from 2000 to 2010, but that wasn’t enough to keep up
with demand. I began worrying in 2005, as helpful as finance had
been for the city, New York might be getting too much of a good
thing.  The recession fixed much of that problem. From 2007 to
2009, payroll in “securities, commodity contracts, investments”
dropped by more than  27 percent , and finance and insurance were
below 37 percent of Manhattan’s payroll.  Earnings outside of finance and insurance dropped by only 5
percent from 2007 to 2009, and that modest decline hints at New
York’s resilience.  The city  is better off with finance than without it, no
matter what you may have heard in Zuccotti Park. Yet New York
would be stronger still if it had a broader industrial
portfolio. As long as there is enough new building to moderate
the growth in real estate prices, new industries will spring up.  New York City ’s human talent and global reach may still
ensure that its future is as varied as its past.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 