-- Winners of 2011 Show Tumult Across the Pacific: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2011-12-20T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/winners-of-2011-show-tumult-across-the-pacific-william-pesek.html
If  Asians (MXAP)  got together to name a
person of the year, someone who brought surprise, intrigue and
economic impact to the region, the choice would be obvious:
Mother Nature.  From earthquakes in  Japan  and  New Zealand  to floods in the
Philippines and Thailand to Chinese droughts to volcanic
eruptions in  Indonesia , this was a year overrun by nature’s
fury. Food shortages and the effects of climate change
challenged governments and inflation rates as rarely before.  Other forces of nature, meanwhile, ran out of steam. The
most surprising thing about Kim Jong Il’s death is that we were
so surprised. Time was never on the side of the hard-living
North Korean leader after a 2008 stroke. Yet, the world seemed
to think the laws of science no longer applied to Kim.
Unstoppable China also showed signs of being subject to a set of
laws -- those of economics, which guarantee that rapid growth
inevitably slows.  As 2011 draws to a close, 10 awards are in order for the
countries, people and companies that shaped  Asia ’s tumultuous
year -- natural disasters aside.  Homer Simpson Award: To the hapless crowd at  Tokyo Electric
Power Co. (9501) , whose corruption and negligence turned  Japan ’s March
11 earthquake and tsunami into the worst crisis since Chernobyl.
Japan’s nuclear industry was proved to be no sounder than that
of the fictional Springfield Nuclear Power Plant, where on “The
Simpsons” cartoon program, the bumbling Homer heads safety.
Only for Japan’s 126 million people, there’s nothing to laugh
about.  ‘Dictatorships for Dummies’  Ready or Not Award: To Kim Jong Un, the 20-something son
expected to replace Kim Jong Il. Grandfather Kim Il Sung spent
decades preparing his son to take over in 1994. Kim Jong Il had
far less time to show his successor the ropes. If only
Amazon.com carried a “Dictatorships for Dummies” title.  Reality TV Award: To Philippine President Benigno Aquino,
for offering nary a dull moment. First, he stood up to the
Catholic Church’s stance against contraception and family
planning. Then he went after the billions of dollars watchdog
groups say Ferdinand Marcos looted during his 21 years in power.
Next, he arrested predecessor Gloria Arroyo on corruption
charges. And you think things are tense in  Washington ?  Overwhelmed Freshman Award: To Yingluck Shinawatra, the
fresh-faced prime minister of  Thailand . With her unsteady
handling of massive floods that breached Bangkok’s defenses,
Yingluck confirmed concerns that she is both unqualified for the
job and a proxy for her brother Thaksin Shinawatra. He was
ousted from the premiership in 2006 amid huge street protests.
Talk that Yingluck may allow her brother to return to Thailand
means one thing: This might just be a warm-up.  Coming Out Party Award: To Myanmar, for shocking the globe
by taking steps toward democracy. If you told  Hillary Clinton  a
year ago that she would be in Yangon and embracing Aung Sang Suu Kyi, the U.S. secretary of state might have laughed. It makes
you wonder whether Pope Benedict XVI will soon get an invite.  Underdog Award: To  Anna Hazare , whose hunger strike shook
 India . Only history will tell if the anti-corruption movement
touched off by the Gandhian social activist will drive the
change India’s inefficient economy needs. It’s a dialog that
India must have if it’s going to keep up with  China .  Gillard Thrives  Grrl Power Award: To Julia Gillard, the Australian prime
minister who is thriving in a man’s world. After toppling
predecessor Kevin Rudd in a June 2010 party coup, word was that
Gillard wouldn’t last. Today, she’s running an economy that’s
the envy of the developed world and planning to lead the Labor
Party to the next election in 2013. Gillard is also working to
increase female participation in  Australia ’s executive suites.
Good on you, mate.  Clueless Executive Award: Although it’s hard to top Japan’s
Tepco for dismal leadership, Olympus Corp. deserves honorable
mention for a scandal that left a $1.3 billion hole in its
balance sheet and President Shuichi Takayama struggling to save
the company’s board. And the next recall by Sony Corp., which is
on course for a fourth straight annual loss, should be Chairman
 Howard Stringer .  Contrarian Indicator Award: To  Standard & Poor’s , which
might as well have flashed a “buy” signal on American debt
when it cut the U.S.’s AAA rating in August. Far from fleeing
the dollar, investors -- many of them from Asia -- loaded up
anew on U.S. Treasuries. Does that signify complete distrust of
our credit-rating system, or what?  Meredith Whitney Award: To Muddy Waters LLC, the Hong Kong-
based short-seller that claimed to have found financial
shenanigans at timberland owner Sino-Forest Corp. Whitney’s 2007
prediction that Citigroup Inc.’s dividend was in danger -- it
was later cut -- drew denials and rebukes. Muddy Waters’s
report, initially disputed, is looking more  accurate (TRE)  by the day.
Among the investors tripped up was  John Paulson , he of the
colossally profitable bet on subprime mortgages.  It’s fitting that the final award concerns China because
Asia’s prospects are so dependent on the region’s dominant
economic power. Maybe next year is when we will find out if
Sino-Forest was an anomaly or a microcosm of the Chinese growth
miracle. If it’s the latter, then what Mother Nature served up
this year might seem tame by comparison.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 