-- Lyondell Creditor Trustee Sues Shareholders Over 2007 Leveraged Buyout
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2011-12-20T19:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/lyondell-creditor-trustee-sues-shareholders-over-2007-leveraged-buyout.html
Lyondell Chemical Co. ’s trustee sued
investors in  New York  state court, claiming that assets of the
previously bankrupt company were fraudulently transferred in the
2007 buyout led by financier Leonard Blavatnik.  Lyondell shareholders realized an unfair premium in the
sale, according to a complaint filed yesterday in New York State
 Supreme Court  by Edward S. Weisfelner on behalf of the LB
Creditor Trust. Weisfelner said about $12.5 billion went to
shareholders in the buyout, which was financed with “debt
leveraged against the assets of Lyondell,” leading to the
chemical maker’s 2009 bankruptcy.  “The $48 per share price paid to Lyondell shareholders
pursuant to the merger was a ‘blowout price’ that resulted in a
windfall to Lyondell shareholders and management,” according to
the complaint. “Prior to being put into play by Blavatnik,
Lyondell’s stock price had languished for years, struggling to
occasionally rise above $30 per share.”  Lyondell reorganized in 2010 by resolving most of its
disputes with creditors. Blavatnik and his company Access
Industries Holdings Inc. didn’t take part in a settlement that
included some of the other investors in the $22 billion buyout
in 2007.  ‘Preposterous’ Claim  Lyondell creditors have said in court papers that Blavatnik
gained $1.2 billion from the buyout, which caused Lyondell to go
bankrupt, hurting other creditors. Lawyers for Blavatnik have
called the claim “preposterous” and said it ignores the fact
that Blavatnik contributed his own equity, which was lost when
the company went bankrupt.  Weisfelner filed a similar, second amended complaint in a
2010 case yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan 
against a series of investment funds.  The state case named “persons or entities” who “directly
or indirectly received payments” for the shares.  Both lawsuits seek restitution for creditors.  The state case is Weisfelner v. Reichman, 653522-2011,
Supreme Court of New York (New York County). The bankruptcy
adversary proceeding is Weisfelner v. Fund 1, 10-4609, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  