-- Yuan Falls Most in Five Weeks on Growth Concern, Weaker Fixing
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2011-12-20T09:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-20/yuan-falls-most-in-five-weeks-on-growth-concern-weaker-fixing.html
China ’s yuan fell the most in five
weeks on concern growth in the world’s second-largest economy
will slow next year as  Europe ’s debt crisis undermines a global
recovery.  The currency snapped a two-day gain after the 21st Century
Business Herald reported today China may adjust its expansion
target for 2012 to less than 8 percent, without saying where it
got the information. The central bank set the  reference rate 
0.08 percent weaker at 6.3351 per dollar, lowering it for the
first time in three days, after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said yesterday that euro-area economies still face
substantial risks.  “Facing slower economic growth, exporters are more
cautious with their hedging and hold a more negative view on the
yuan,” said Patrick Cheng, a Hong Kong-based currency analyst
at Haitong International Securities Co. “Demand for the dollar
is stronger toward the year-end.”  The yuan declined 0.15 percent to close at 6.3472 a dollar
in  Shanghai , the biggest one-day drop since Nov. 14, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It is allowed to
trade 0.5 percent on either side of the daily fixing.  The currency gained 0.6 percent in the last two trading
sessions and touched 6.3294 per dollar on Dec. 16, the strongest
level since China unified official and market exchange rates at
the end of 1993. The nation’s gross domestic product increased
an average 9.4 percent in the first three quarters of 2011 from
a year earlier, government data show.  Offshore Market  Yuan forwards in the offshore market advanced on signs
China will promote the global use of its currency, favoring a
strong exchange-rate policy to attract investors. The
southwestern province of Yunnan is starting regional trading of
the yuan against the  Thai baht , the official Xinhua News Agency
reported today, without giving details.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.26 percent to
6.3930 per dollar in Hong Kong, a 0.7 percent discount to the
onshore spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan gained 0.12 percent to
6.3575.  “It’s obvious that the central bank favors a stronger yuan
to encourage more usage,” said  Steve Wang , the Hong Kong-based
head of fixed-income research at Bank of China International, a
unit of China’s fourth-largest lender by market value. “It’s in
China’s nature to keep a stable exchange-rate policy given the
volatilities in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  