-- Thai Billionaire Challenges OUE’s F&N Offer With Higher Bid
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2013-01-19T12:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/thai-billionaire-challenges-oue-s-f-n-offer-with-increased-bid.html
Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi boosted his stake in Fraser & Neave Ltd. to
almost 40 percent and raised his takeover offer for the real
estate and soft-drink company to block a rival group.  Charoen’s TCC Assets bid S$9.55 a share, topping a Nov. 15
offer of S$9.08 a share from a group led by  Overseas Union
Enterprise Ltd. (OUE) , according to a stock exchange statement late
yesterday. His latest offer is a 0.3 percent discount to
yesterday’s closing price of S$9.58 and values the company at
S$13.8 billion ($11.2 billion).  “I don’t think it’s game over for OUE,” said Jonathan Foster, Singapore-based director of global special situations at
Religare Capital Markets. “It’s in their interest to put their
best foot forward because the Thais are not necessarily going to
stay a minority shareholder if OUE bids above fair value for
F&N.”  The billionaire,  Thailand ’s richest man, is seeking to
expand his businesses in  Asia  by winning control of the 130-
year-old company that has assets from serviced apartments to
beverages. His latest proposal escalates the bidding war with
OUE, a Singapore-based property company that has enlisted
Japanese brewer Kirin Holdings Co. in its bid.  The OUE-led group has the backing of Kirin’s 15 percent
stake in F&N. OUE would get the company’s property business and
Kirin would take the food and beverage unit, under a pact they
announced last year.  Additional Stake  Charoen agreed to buy a 22 percent stake in F&N in July,
sparking a fight for its assets. He has been adding to his
holdings. TCC said it bought a further 6.3 percent of F&N and
now owns or has acceptances for 39.94 percent of the shares.  The Business Times reported today that  PAG Capital , a Hong
Kong private equity fund, may have been the buyer for TCC.
Charoen’s company issued a separate statement to the stock
exchange as a clarification to the report to say PAG wasn’t a
counterparty or acting in concert with his group. The stock
purchase was made through unrelated parties, TCC said.  F&N  shares  have traded above the price of the previous two
offers, indicating that investors were expecting a higher bid.
Charoen had offered S$8.88 in September.  An auction process will begin after the weekend if neither
bidder has declared its offer final,  Singapore ’s securities
regulator said this month. If one or other indicates its
proposal is final by tomorrow, the deal will be decided by a
shareholder vote. If either group wishes to raise its offer
after that date, it must submit the bid to the Securities
Industry Council. The rival will have time to respond.  Kirin’s Stake  Kirin has agreed to tender its 14.8 percent stake in F&N,
OUE has said. The Japanese brewer will offer S$2.7 billion for
F&N’s food and beverage business, if OUE wins enough support to
complete the takeover.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., F&N’s independent financial adviser,
said yesterday that Kirin’s offer for the food and beverage
business is 5.2 percent lower than the mid-point range of the
value of the asset. The bank valued the unit at S$1.88 billion
to S$3.82 billion, based on the sum-of-parts valuation. It also
said yesterday that F&N isn’t a “distressed” seller.  F&N has said it had committed to pay the OUE consortium a
break-up fee of as much as S$50 million if a competing offer is
successful.  Charoen, 68, has a net worth of $9.6 billion, according to
data from the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . His unlisted
business, TCC Group, has a real estate unit. His Thai Beverage,
which sells the Chang brand of beer, gets almost all its revenue
from its home market.  Stephen Riady  OUE Executive Chairman Stephen Riady is a son of Mochtar Riady, who controls  Indonesia ’s Lippo Group, with businesses
ranging from real estate and financial services to food across
Asia. If successful, it would be the biggest ever acquisition of
a Singapore-based company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  OUE, which gets about 65 percent of its revenue from hotel
operations, plans at least one investment a year in Singapore to
boost property holdings that include office towers, luxury
apartments and malls, Stephen Riady said in an August interview.  Heineken NV (HEIA)  won control of F&N’s beer unit, the maker of
Tiger beer, in a deal that closed in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  