-- Airfreight Rebounds as Cargoes Signal Global Recovery: EcoPulse
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2013-01-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/airfreight-rebounds-as-cargoes-signal-global-recovery-ecopulse.html
A pickup in air cargo shipments from
 Asia  may benefit shares of  Expeditors International of
Washington Inc. (EXPD)  and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  as global economic growth
improves.  Exports at Hong Kong Air Cargo Terminals Ltd. grew 5.9
percent in December from the prior year, following an 8.5
percent increase the previous month, based on  data  from the
biggest handler in the world’s busiest freight airport. The
recent gains came after shipments had contracted by an average
 rate  of 4.2 percent in the 24 months ending last October.  The rise in this gauge of shipments from Asia is
encouraging for Expeditors, with 2011 revenue of $2.9 billion
from airfreight services, and FedEx, said  David Ross , a
Baltimore-based transportation analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
These exports -- particularly high-tech shipments -- are “part
of the equation” that boosts earnings for those companies, he
said.  “It doesn’t take much of an uptick in demand in that
market to have shippers scrambling for capacity,” said Ross,
who maintains buy recommendations on these companies. While
Expeditors has missed analysts’ earnings  estimates  for the past
four quarters, it may be “nearing a beatable quarter” this
year, he said. The Seattle-based company is scheduled to report
fourth-quarter results on Feb. 26.  Growth Correlation  Exports from Hong Kong Air Cargo Terminals have a “strong
correlation” with annual growth in airfreight revenue at
Expeditors and yearly gains in the average daily pounds of
FedEx’s international priority freight, according to  Peter Nesvold , an analyst in New York at Jefferies & Co. Their
earnings are sensitive to changes in such shipments because
margins are high, he said.  When FedEx reported fiscal second-quarter results, the
Asia-Pacific airfreight market was doing “quite well,” David Bronczek, president and chief executive officer of FedEx Express
said on a Dec. 19 conference call. “We are actually seeing some
positive trends from our key customers in our market segment.”
The Memphis, Tennessee-based company is scheduled to report
fiscal third-quarter results on March 20.  Shares of companies in this industry have “done pretty
well” since mid-November with “less nervousness” about a
worldwide economic slowdown, said  Frederic Dickson , chief
investment strategist in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon , at D.A. Davidson &
Co. Even signs of a “little bit of stabilization in  Europe ”
and increased exports from  China  can be met with a big price
reaction, he said.  Economic Surprise  Overseas shipments from China increased 14.1 percent from a
year earlier, the most since May, based on data from the customs
administration in Beijing. Though the rise exceeded economists’
forecasts, analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG and
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. questioned the
reliability of the figures.  The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the euro region,
was at 11.4 yesterday, the highest reading in nine months. A
positive reading in the index indicates economic statistics have
on balance been beating consensus estimates.  Shares of Expeditors, which provides ocean-freight services
as well as for air cargo, have risen 20 percent since Nov. 16,
while FedEx, operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline, is
up 16 percent. That compares with an 8.9 percent gain in the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  during the same period.  Investors are drawn to this industry because it’s “one of
the moving parts that benefits from a cyclical recovery,” said
Dickson, who helps manage $32 billion. “We may be transitioning
from a period of deceleration to slight acceleration.”  Purchasing Managers  Global manufacturing activity, as measured by a JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  purchasing managers ’  index , rose for the second
consecutive month to 50.2 in December, the highest level since
May. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  Another sign of improvement is Stifel’s monthly Logistics
Confidence Index, which serves as a “barometer of the health
and trajectory of international freight movements,” Ross said.
Though this indicator remains below the threshold of 50 that
shows better conditions, it rose to 48 in December, the second
consecutive month of increases, he said.  In addition, barring a “material unraveling in the  U.S.
economy ,” there probably will be a “nice re-stocking cycle”
by retailers between March and May that will benefit airfreight,
Nesvold said. The economy expanded at a 3.1 percent annual pace
-- more than previously reported -- in the third quarter, though
growth probably slowed to 1.5 percent in the three months ended
Dec. 31, based on the median estimate of seven economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Ship Trend  Even so, secular shifts could hurt the companies’ long-term
growth prospects. Ocean freight has become a more attractive
alternative in the past two years as customers try to save on
shipping costs, Nesvold said. “Higher  fuel  has become sort of a
permanent tax on the airfreight industry, while service levels
on the water have gotten better over time,” he said.  At the same time, technology products such as tablets are
becoming smaller, lighter and less expensive. This hurts volumes
of airfreight, a more profitable business for Expeditors than
ocean services, he said. The company derived about 41 percent of
third-quarter revenue from its airfreight division, according to
a Nov. 6 statement.  The carrier is facing a “very uniquely challenging
business environment” as it adapts to transporting these new
products, as well as “lackluster consumer and business demand
and global economic uncertainty,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Rose  said in the same statement.  Still, Expeditors’ valuation is attractive on a price-to-
earnings basis,  trading  at about 20 times Nesvold’s estimate for
earnings, compared with an historical average multiple of about
25 to 30, he said.  The stock also could appeal to investors as a “proxy for a
play on the entire Far East economy,” Dickson said. The two-
month rally in Expeditors and FedEx shares suggests that
investors are feeling better about exports from the region and
growth in general, he said.  “These stocks act as a harbinger that things may be
improving globally,” Dickson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in  New York  at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  