-- Taiwan 10-Year Bonds Have Weekly Gain on Stock Market Drop
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-01-18T08:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/taiwan-10-year-bonds-set-for-weekly-gain-on-stock-market-drop.html
Taiwan ’s 10-year bonds completed a
weekly advance, snapping six weeks of losses, on speculation
investors favored the safest assets as stocks declined. The
local dollar fell this week.  The benchmark Taiex stock  index  declined 1.1 percent after
three weeks of gains. Global funds sold $84 million more of the
island’s shares than they bought in the past five days, exchange
data show.  “The stock market performance was pretty bad in the last
few days so some people may tend to buy bonds to hedge their
portfolio,” said  Albert Lee , a fixed-income trader in Taipei at
Cathay United Bank Co. “That’s why the bond yield dropped.”  The yield on the 1.125 percent notes due September 2022
slipped one basis point, of 0.01 percentage point, to 1.16
percent this week, according to Gretai Securities Market. The
rate was little changed today.  Taiwan’s dollar weakened 0.1 percent this week to NT$29.060
against its U.S. counterpart, based on prices from Taipei Forex
Inc. It rose 0.1 percent today, paring a gain of 0.5 percent a
minute before the market closed. The monetary authority has sold
the local currency to counter gains on most days in the past
nine months, according to the traders, who asked not to be
identified.  One-month implied volatility on the  Taiwan dollar , a
measure of expected moves in exchange rates used to price
options, dropped 38 basis points to 3 percent this week. The
gauge was unchanged today.  China , the biggest buyer of Taiwan’s exports, reported
today that economic growth accelerated for the first time in two
years, with industrial output picking up, after the government
implemented policies to revive domestic demand. Gross domestic
product increased 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, after a 7.4 percent gain in the previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  