-- Mali Army Secures Central Town of Konna as Troops Land
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-01-19T13:28:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/mali-army-secures-central-town-of-konna.html
French forces in  Mali  reached 2,000
as they prepare to support West African soldiers arriving to
join the conflict in the desert north.  Yesterday, Mali’s army secured the central town of Konna
three days after French fighter jets drove out Islamist rebels.
The battle lasted almost 48 hours, Colonel Didier Dakouo, the
head of the central Sevare military base, said on state-owned
Office de Radio Diffusion Télévision du Mali yesterday.  It was the capture of the town by rebels last week that
triggered the French intervention. French forces have targeted
insurgents controlling about two-thirds of the landlocked West
African nation, which vies with Tanzania as the continent’s
third-biggest gold producer. Neighboring countries are sending
as many as 3,300 troops to bolster the effort to restore
government control of the north.  Air strikes “dealt a serious blow” to the insurgents in
the northern town of Gao, Sidi Haidarra, a teacher who fled the
town and arrived in Bamako yesterday, said in an interview.
“They completely obliterated their main arms and fuel stock.
Hundreds of fighters fled the city after the strikes.”  The insurgents are a mix of al-Qaeda-linked Islamist
militants and Tuareg groups demanding greater autonomy for the
north. French helicopter-borne special forces supported the
Malian troops in Konna, French officials said.  Regional Base  In addition to Mali, the French military has another 900
committed to the mission in neighboring countries.  France has six Dassault Aviation SA Mirage 2000 fighter
jets and four Rafales based in  Chad , and about 10 attack
helicopters based between Mali and Burkino Faso,  Thierry
Burkhard , spokesman for the French military, said in a briefing
yesterday. Two Mirage F1s are based in Bamako.  The number of French troops in the country could reach
2,500, Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said in Abidjan, where
West African leaders are meeting to discuss the Mali situation.  About 250 troops from Togo and Nigeria arrived in Mali on
Jan. 17. At least 2,000 African troops will arrive in less than
a week to join a ground offensive, Chaka Aboudou Toure, the
representative to Mali of the Economic Community of West African
States Commission, said in an interview in Bamako.  Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan increased his nation’s
contribution to the force to 1,200 as troops from eight West
African nations started arriving to battle the insurgents.  Nigeria ’s “national security is under imminent threat or
danger as a result of the crises in northern Mali,” he said in
a letter to the Senate yesterday.  International Response  International donors will meet Jan. 29 in  Addis Ababa  to
discuss funding for the African mission.  The European Union is bringing forward the timetable to
start a military training mission to Mali by the middle of next
month. The 450-member team, which has an initial 15-month
mandate, won’t be involved in combat, the EU said.  The French military blocked roads south of the central town
of Diabaly, about 400 kilometers (250 miles) north of Bamako.
Fighting continues in the town, Mohamed Koumare, whose wife and
child were trapped there, said in an interview in the capital.  French planes have flown 110 sorties since the start of the
operation, Burkhard said.  “I called a friend in the army, who said they couldn’t
hold Konna and the French saved us,” Daouda Malle, a 34-year-
old computer specialist, said in an interview. “I know now that
I wouldn’t sit talking and sipping tea with my friends if it
wasn’t for the French. Everybody is supporting them.”  French Backing  Sixty-five percent of French approve of their military
intervention in Mali, according to an Ifop poll for newspaper
Sud Ouest. The poll was carried out Jan. 15-17 with 2,002
people. No margin of error was given.  France  intervened after it received a request from interim
President Dioncounda Traore.  Germany , the U.K., the U.S., Canada
and  Belgium  are assisting with air transport.  The French said they wanted to prevent Bamako falling to
the militants, and that their role now is to prepare and support
an African force to re-take the north of the country from the
Islamists. They number 2,000 to 5,000, with criminal bands and
drugs smugglers on the fringes, according to a report from CF2R,
a French institute that does research on intelligence.  Mali’s rebels exploited political instability in Bamako,
following a March coup to seize control of the north. Mali is
now led by Traore and Prime Minister Diango Cissoko, who was
appointed last month after the leader of the coup, Captain
Amadou Sanogo, forced Cheick Modibo Diarra to resign.  The country ranks 175th out of 187 nations on the United
Nations’ Human Development Index, which measures indicators
including literacy, income and gender equality.  Its $10.6 billion economy contracted 4.5 percent last year
and is forecast to grow 3 percent in 2013, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Bamako at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  