-- Arab Bank Sanctions Order Appeal Dismissed by U.S. Court
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-18T21:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/arab-bank-appeal-of-sanctions-order-dismissed-by-u-s-court.html
Arab Bank Plc (ARBK) ’s appeal of sanctions
for not obeying discovery orders in a lawsuit brought by victims
of terrorist attacks was dismissed by a federal appeals court in
New York.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan ruled today that it
couldn’t hear the bank’s appeal of a sanctions order imposed by
U.S. District Judge Nina Gershon in Brooklyn until after the
consolidated suits pending before her have ended.  “We conclude that the sanctions order is not a reviewable
collateral order, and we therefore dismiss the bank’s appeal for
want of jurisdiction,” the panel of judges said.  “We conclude further, that this is not an appropriate case
for issuance of the extraordinary writ,” the appeals court
said, adding, “the bank has not established (among other
factors) that it has a ‘clear and indisputable right’ to such
drastic relief or that review after final judgment will not
provide adequate relief.”  Courtney Linde, the widow of John Linde Jr., who was killed
Oct. 15, 2003, while guarding diplomats traveling in the Gaza
Strip, sued in federal court in  Brooklyn  in 2004. She is the
lead plaintiff for a half-dozen families suing the Amman,
Jordan-based lender in cases that allege it “knowingly and
purposefully supported” foreign terrorist organizations between
1995 and 2004 by providing financial support. The bank has
denied wrongdoing.  Sanctions Imposed  The judge imposed sanctions upon the bank for not complying
with several court orders to produce documents the plaintiffs
said were relevant to their case. Gershon’s sanctions took the
form of a jury instruction that would permit -- but not require
-- the jury to infer from the bank’s failure to produce the
documents that it provided financial services to foreign
terrorist groups and did so knowingly.  Gershon also precluded the bank from introducing for the
jury’s consideration certain evidence related to undisclosed
materials.  The bank argued that the sanctions were “unduly harsh,”
that jury instructions would predetermine the outcome of the
case, and that the documents are covered by foreign bank secrecy
laws, so that their disclosure would subject the bank to
criminal prosecution.  Ten similar suits brought against the bank by the families
of dozens of victims of other attacks in  Israel  were
consolidated and are pending before Gershon. She hasn’t yet
determined whether any of those cases will go to trial.  ‘Substantially Right’  “We think they got it substantially right,” Gary Osen, a
lawyer for some of the plaintiffs, said in a phone interview
about the decision to dismiss the appeal. “It just means these
cases can go forward. All we ask for is our day in court.”  Bob Chlopak, a spokesman for Arab Bank, said in an e-mail
that the ruling is “not an endorsement of the district court’s
sanctions.”  “The bank continues to believe that the district court’s
sanctions order raises serious issues of international concern,
and it is currently weighing its legal options,” he said.  The bank, Jordan’s largest, won dismissal in November of a
separate case filed by former Israeli government official Mati
Gill, which alleged that the lender supported the group Hamas.
Gill, who was injured in a 2008 by a shot fired from Gaza, a
territory bordering Israel, sought damages from the bank.  U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein in Brooklyn ruled that
Gill didn’t show enough evidence that the bank played a role in
the attack to send the case to trial.  “Arab Bank remains confident that the extensive
evidentiary record in these cases demonstrates that the bank
provided routine banking services in accordance with the laws
and regulations governing its operations,” Chlopak said.  The case is Linde v. Arab Bank Plc, 04-cv-02799, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn); the
appeals cases are Linde v. Arab Bank, 10-cv-4519 and 10-cv-4524,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  The other case is Gill v. Arab Bank Plc, 1:11-cv-03706,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  