-- Marine Corps F-35B Flights Suspended After a Part Fails
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-19T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/marine-corps-f-35b-flights-suspended-after-a-part-fails.html
The Pentagon suspended flights of
the F-35B, the Marine Corps model of its Joint Strike Fighter,
after the failure of a propulsion-system part caused a pilot to
abort a takeoff.  “We are assessing potential causes and evaluating actions
to return” the Marine Corps version to flight, Pentagon
spokesman Joe DellaVedova said yesterday in an e-mail.  The Marine Corps model, designed for short takeoffs and
landings on carriers and amphibious-warfare vessels, is the most
complex of three models being built in the Pentagon’s costliest
program.  The failure was in the jet’s propulsion system, made by the
 Pratt & Whitney  unit of Hartford, Connecticut-based  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)  The incident occurred before takeoff on Jan.
16 at Eglin Air Force Base in  Florida .  “The pilot aborted takeoff without incident and cleared
the active runway,” DellaVedova said.  Development of the F-35 has been marked by delays and cost
increases. The Pentagon’s $395.7 billion estimate for the total
cost of development and production of 2,443 fighters is a 70
percent increase since the initial contract with Bethesda,
Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  was signed in 2001.  The incident involved a propulsion fueldraulic line. The
fueldraulic system saves weight by using  jet fuel  instead of the
customary hydraulic fluid to lubricate mechanical parts.  Detached Line  “An initial inspection discovered a detached fueldraulic
line in the aft portion of the engine compartment,” Matthew
Bates, a spokesman for Pratt and Whitney Military Aircraft, said
in an e-mailed statement.  “A team of Pratt & Whitney and Rolls-Royce engineers is
investigating the cause,” Bates said. London-based  Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc (RR/)  makes the components of the propulsion system that
enable the aircraft to perform short takeoff and vertical
landing operations.  DellaVedova said, “it is the first time we’ve experienced
an event with the propulsion fueldraulic line.” The affected
component isn’t used on the Navy or Air Force versions of the
F-35, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  