-- Mark Cuban Again Seeks End to SEC Insider Trading Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 2013-01-18T20:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/mark-cuban-again-seeks-end-to-sec-insider-trading-case.html
Mark Cuban , the Texas billionaire
and pro basketball team owner, went to the federal courthouse in
Dallas today, seeking to persuade a judge to throw out for a
second time a U.S. lawsuit accusing him of  insider trading .  U.S. District Judge Sidney Fitzwater in Dallas will hear
arguments on Cuban’s request, filed with the court in July, and
on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s opposition
registered with the court a month later. The year after
Fitzwater dismissed the case in 2009, a federal appeals court in
 New Orleans  reinstated the litigation against Cuban, the owner
of the  Dallas Mavericks .  The SEC sued Cuban in 2008. The agency accused him of
making illegal trades in shares of Internet search company
Mamma.com Inc. in June 2004 based on inside information from its
then-chief executive officer, Guy Faure.  Cuban claims what Faure told him wasn’t secret.  “After years of the SEC’s investigation of Mr. Cuban and
discovery in this case, there is not a shred of evidence of a
confidentiality agreement between Mr. Cuban and Mamma,” defense
lawyers argued in a court filing on July 13.  The SEC claims Cuban, upset upon learning of the company’s
imminent plans for a below-market private placement, sold his
6.3 percent stake for about $7.9 million within hours of talking
to Faure.  This followed his telling Faure during a June 28, 2004,
telephone call, “Well, now I’m screwed. I can’t sell,”
according to the SEC.  The Montreal-based Internet search company is now known as
Copernic Inc.  ‘Confidentiality Agreement’  SEC lawyers argued in court papers that Fitzwater should
deny Cuban’s request to dismiss the case because the parties
disagree about underlying facts.  In addition to his National Basketball Association
franchise, Cuban, 54, owns the HDNet high-definition television
channel and the Landmark Theater chain.  Earlier this month, the NBA fined Cuban $50,000 for making
critical comments about game officials on his Twitter.com page.  Arriving at the courthouse today, Cuban was asked whether
he intended to fight the SEC allegations to their legal
conclusion.  “You’ll just have to stay tuned,” he replied.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-2050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
( Dallas )  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  