-- Asia Stocks Rise This Week on China, U.S. Data and Yen’s Slide
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-01-18T23:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/asia-stocks-rise-this-week-on-china-u-s-data-and-yen-s-slide.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week, with
the benchmark index capping its eighth gain in nine weeks, as
economic reports in the world’s two largest economies beat
estimates and as a weaker yen boosted Japan’s exporters.  Sony Corp. (6758) , an exporter of consumer electronics, surged 17
percent this week in  Tokyo  after announcing the sale of its  New
York  headquarters for $1.1 billion.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier
to Wal-Mart Stores Inc., dropped 14 percent in Hong Kong after
saying operating income slumped 40 percent last year.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.7 percent to 132.72 this
week after last week snapping a seven-week winning streak. The
regional gauge is extending its two-month rally amid signs U.S.
and Chinese economies are recovering and amid surge in Japanese
stocks on speculation Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will pursue more
aggressive stimulus policies.  “This rally can continue as the economic recovery in  China 
and the U.S. will support company earnings,” said Michiya Tomita, a Hong Kong-based fund manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., which oversees $70 billion. “Everyone seems to
be bullish on the Japanese market, which also supports sentiment
around Asia. The weaker yen will boost Japanese exporters’
earnings.”  Stocks on Asia’s benchmark index were valued at 14.3 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with about 13.4 times
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12.1 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yen Correlation  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 1 percent this week,
while the broader Topix Index capped its longest weekly winning
streak since 1986 as the yen fell to a 2 1/2 year low against
the dollar. A weaker yen boosts overseas income at Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency.  The Topix is more sensitive to movements in the currency
than it’s been since 1988, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Two days of gains by the yen in midweek prompted
steep losses in the country’s equity markets, knocking $106
billion from the value of Japanese companies.  Credit Suisse Group AG raised Japan’s growth forecast for
this year to 1.2 percent from 0.3 percent on yen depreciation
and Abe’s policies.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 1.5 percent this week.
China’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 3.3 percent after data
showed the economy accelerated more than estimated in the fourth
quarter, with industrial output picking up.  Shares also climbed after China’s securities regulator said
the nation can increase by 10 times the size of two investment
programs that allow foreign investors to buy securities.  Home Starts  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 0.4 percent, while Taiwan’s
Taiex Index decreased 1.1 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
climbed 1.3 percent even as home-loan approvals unexpectedly
dropped in November.  In the U.S., data showed builders started more houses than
forecast in December and first-time claims for unemployment
benefits fell more than forecast last week.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , a Japanese carmaker that receives about 43
percent of sales from North America, gained 1.8 percent to 3,440
yen in Tokyo. Toyota Motor Corp., the country’s No. 1 car
producer, rose 0.9 percent to 4,300 yen, the highest since
October 2008.  Sony surged 17 percent to 1,149 yen. The company’s U.S.
unit said it agreed to sell its New York headquarters for $1.1
billion to investors led by the Chetrit Group.  Developers led gains in Hong Kong as the city’s Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying failed to outline harsh measures to
combat soaring property prices in his first policy address.  Billabong Bid  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd., controlled by billionaire Li Ka
Shing, advanced 3.7 percent to HK$130.60. New World Development
Co., which recorded the biggest gain in the  Hang Seng Property
Index (HSP)  in 2012, added 4.8 percent to HK$14.36 the highest since
January 2011.  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG)  surged 19 percent in Sydney as
Australia’s largest surfwear maker received a takeover offer.
The company, which gets almost half its revenue from the
Americas, said it received a takeover offer from VF Corp. and
Altamont Capital Partners that matches a A$527 million ($556
million) bid from Paul Naude, a director.  Among stocks that fell, Li & Fung tumbled 14 percent to
HK$11.94 in Hong Kong after saying its operating income slumped
40 percent in 2012 as margins and orders weakened in its U.S.
business.  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) , a battery supplier to Boeing Co., dropped
6.5 percent to 315 yen in Tokyo after U.S. regulators ordered
airlines to prove the batteries are safe. A 787 operated by All
Nippon Airways Co. this week made an emergency landing after
pilots saw smoke in the cockpit and a Japan Airlines Co.
Dreamliner had a battery fire last week.  “I’d stay positive on equities as the environment remains
conducive,” said Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic
 asset allocation  at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages
almost $100 billion. “Global leading indicators are turning up
and  interest rates  remain quite low. In the short-term, there’s
scope for investors to take some profit off the table.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 