-- U.S. Stocks Close at Five-Year High While Treasuries Gain
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2013-01-18T21:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/asian-stocks-advance-with-crops-as-yen-nears-2-1-2-year-low.html
U.S. stocks closed at a five-year
high and Treasuries rose for the fifth time in six days as
investors weighed prospects for a short-term lift in the U.S.
 debt ceiling . The yen traded at a 2 1/2-year low.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.3 percent to
1,485.98 at 4 p.m. in  New York  and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  added 54 points to 13,649.7, with both ending the week
at the highest levels since 2007. Ten-year U.S. yields slid four
basis points to 1.84 percent.  Japan ’s currency weakened to more
than 90 per dollar for a second day for the first time since
June 2010, and the Topix Index capped a 10th straight weekly
advance, on signs the central bank will extend asset purchases.
Hong Kong-traded shares of Chinese companies jumped to a 17-
month high and commodities rose as  China ’s growth quickened.  House Republicans  plan to vote next week on a three-month
extension of U.S. borrowing authority in an effort to force the
Democratic-led Senate to adopt a budget plan. Word of the vote
helped the equity market recover from an early retreat triggered
by a drop in  consumer confidence  to a 13-month low and
disappointing earnings from Intel Corp. and Capital One
Financial Corp.  “Anything that gets Congress to think about things and
come up with a solution ahead of time provides some
reassurance,” Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist at the
private-banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland , said in a phone
interview. His firm oversees $20 billion. “It’s pretty early to
be exuberant. Don’t forget that we still have substantial debt
problems, the economy is still sluggish and companies are
beating low-balled  estimates . We need to be careful that we
don’t get too far ahead of ourselves.”  Debt Ceiling Debate  Two-year Treasury yields declined one basis point to 0.25
percent, while rates on 30-year bonds decreased five points to
3.02 percent. The Treasury Department has said the U.S. will
exceed its $16.4 trillion borrowing authority sometime from mid-
February to early March.  Benchmark notes briefly pared gains on a report the House
will pass a three-month debt-limit increase next week, only to
extend them again after Speaker  John Boehner  said a budget that
cuts spending must be passed before any long-term deal is
reached. The  Federal Reserve  purchased $1.565 billion of bonds
maturing from February 2036 to November 2042 amid its struggle
to restore growth in the world’s largest economy.  In the  stock market , the  S&P 500  capped a third straight
weekly gain and extended its 2013 advance to 4.2 percent. The
benchmark gauge needs to rise about 5.3 percent to reclaim its
2007 record close of 1,565.15.  General Electric Co. (GE)  rallied 3.5
percent, the most since June, after fourth-quarter profit topped
estimates amid across-the-board growth in industrial businesses.  Market Leaders  Morgan Stanley jumped 7.9 percent to $22.38, the highest
price since July 2011, after earnings from the world’s biggest
brokerage more than doubled and the firm reached profit-margin
targets six months ahead of schedule. Of the 67 index members
that have posted quarterly earnings so far in the earnings
season, 72 percent exceeded analysts’ profit estimates,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Intel (INTC)  tumbled 6.3 percent, the biggest drop in four years,
after the world’s largest semiconductor maker prepared for a
third straight quarter of declining sales, highlighting the
company’s struggle to adapt in a world embracing mobile devices.
Capital One sank 7.5 percent after quarterly profit missed
analysts’ estimates.  U.S. markets will be closed on Jan. 21 in observance of the
Martin Luther King Jr. holiday.  European Markets  European stocks were little changed, with the Stoxx Europe
600 Index slipping 0.1 percent today to erase a weekly gain. Rio
Tinto Group added 1.8 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said the world’s second-biggest mining company may buy back
shares. Ophir Energy Plc gained 2.5 percent as Nomura Holdings
Inc. raised its recommendation on the stock. Telenet Group
Holding NV slid 2.6 percent as Liberty Global Inc. said it won’t
reopen its bid for the company.  The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.3317 after a European
Central Bank official said the ECB doesn’t have a view whether
banks should repay funds when the possibility comes up, damping
bets short-term interest rates will rise.  The shared currency slid from almost the highest since
February 2012 after ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure
said he doesn’t expect repayments to affect the Eonia rate, an
overnight  interest rate  for the  interbank market . The pound
dropped against 15 of 16 major peers after U.K. retail sales
unexpectedly fell.  China Growth  Zinc and lead rallied at least 0.7 percent after the GDP
report from China, the world’s largest buyer of industrial
metals. Oil was little changed at $95.56 a barrel to cap a sixth
weekly advance, the longest streak in 14 months.  Natural gas futures climbed 2.1 percent to a six-week high
of $3.566 per million British thermal units and spot prices led
gains among 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI Index amid forecasts
for colder weather in the eastern U.S. Wheat rallied more than 1
percent to cap a 4.8 percent five-day gain, the biggest for a
week since July, as a lingering U.S. drought threatened this
year’s harvest in the world’s largest exporter.  The yen was down 0.2 percent at 90.06 per dollar, while
strengthening against 10 of 16 major peers.  The yen needs to return to a rate that helps the economy
and “100 yen is a good level,” said Koichi Hamada, adviser to
Japan’s prime minister in choosing a new central bank governor.
The  Bank of Japan  may decide to conduct open-ended asset buying
to stoke inflation at a meeting starting Jan. 21.  ‘Material Change’  “The market has in its head that there is going to be a
material change in BOJ policy,” said Jeremy Hale, head of macro
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  London . “The BOJ is expected to
announce further easing next week. In the short-term I think the
yen can weaken further as the BOJ announces further stimulus.
The market is expecting a sea-change in policy when the new
governor comes in and that will be the big test.”  Japan’s currency has tumbled 13 percent in the past three
months, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, on
speculation the Bank of Japan will heed Shinzo Abe’s calls for
greater stimulus to boost the economy, which may debase the
currency.  The central bank will adopt the government’s desired 2
percent inflation target at its Jan. 21-22, according to 20 of
22 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . All 22 expect the BOJ
to add to its asset-purchase program, its main policy tool amid
near-zero interest rates, with the median forecast for a 10
trillion yen increase.  Developing Nations  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.7 percent. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies traded in
 Hong Kong  added 2.1 percent to the highest level since August
2011. China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, up from a three-year low of
7.4 percent in the previous period, National Bureau of
Statistics data showed.  Russia’s Micex Index jumped 1.1 percent as Sberbank, the
nation’s largest lender, jumped 2.2 percent to the highest close
since July 2011. OAO Magnit, the country’s biggest food retailer
by market value, rose 2.8 percent, also rose to a record. Energy
shares led India’s Sensex to a two-year high as the government
allowed  oil companies  to raise diesel prices, with 66 percent
more shares traded than the 30-day average volume.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  