-- Ross Says Moody’s Assured Guaranty Cuts ‘Terrible Mistake’
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-01-18T22:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/assured-guaranty-units-cut-by-moody-s-on-muni-insurance-outlook.html
Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO) , the
municipal-bond insurer whose biggest investor is billionaire
Wilbur Ross, said its credit downgrade by Moody’s Investors
Service was unjustified and showed a “serious flaw” in the
company’s rating process.  Moody’s cut its rating of the parent company two levels to
Baa2, two steps above junk, citing in a statement the industry’s
“dramatic decline” since the subprime mortgage crisis.
Subsidiaries Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. and Assured
Guaranty Corp. had their insurance financial strength ratings, a
sign of their ability to pay claims and obligations, lowered two
steps to A2 and three levels to A3, respectively.  Ross said in a telephone interview that the market’s
reaction shows that “everybody agrees with the company’s view
that Moody’s made a terrible mistake.”  “It’s Wall Street saying they got it all wrong.”  Credit-default swaps tied to Assured Guaranty’s debt
declined 1.4 percentage points to 1.5 percent upfront as of 3:30
p.m. in New York, according to prices from data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Financial Crisis  That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $150,000 initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10
million of Assured’s debt. The contracts, which pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted  debt , fall as investor confidence
improves.  Assured and other bond insurers, which had top credit
grades before the financial crisis, helped lower-rated
localities reduce borrowing costs for infrastructure projects.
Assured was the only one left insuring munis after  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  and
Ambac Assurance Corp. had their ratings cut amid losses on
guarantees of subprime-mortgage-backed debt.  Though insurer Build America Mutual Assurance Co. entered
the market last year, just 4 percent of local bonds sold in 2012
had the protection, which once covered more than half the $3.7
trillion market.  Hamilton, Bermuda-based Assured said it plans to create a
municipal-only insurer this year to increase market share. The
subsidiary won’t have a rating from Moody’s.  ‘Difficult Time’  Municipalities have grown used to borrowing without
insurance that once held down interest costs, before the MBIA
and Ambac downgrades sent floating rates soaring in 2007 and
2008. States and cities haven’t had to pay a penalty, instead
issuing bonds at the lowest  yields  since the 1960s as investors
seek a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “It costs so much more to buy bond insurance relative to
the savings you can realize,” said Alan Schankel, head of
fixed-income research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “I expect Assured Guaranty will have an even more
difficult time maintaining market share.”  Investors have reduced the value of bond insurance to
“essentially zero,” said David Manges, muni trading manager at
BNY Mellon Capital Markets LLC in Pittsburgh.  Assured said in the statement that it has faced “an
extraordinarily challenging business environment, with historic
low interest rates, tight credit spreads and ratings reviews.”  ‘Declining Fundamentals’  While Assured avoided the losses that felled its rivals,
 its stock  plunged 90 percent from June 2007 to March 2009. Ross
bought $250 million worth of shares in February 2008 and
committed $750 million in capital to the firm. The billionaire’s
WL Ross & Co. owned a 10.2 percent stake as of Sept. 30. Though
the shares recovered in 2009, they are little changed from June
of that year.  “Assured operates in an industry that has not recovered
from the financial crisis,” Moody’s said. The company “will
continue to struggle in the face of declining fundamentals.”  In trading today, shares rose to $15 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York, after falling as much as 4.45 percent. The stock is down
2.3 percent in the past 12 months, while the Russell 1000
Financial Services Index is up 22.8 percent,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Default swaps on Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.’s debt
fell 23 basis points to 365 basis points, CMA data show.  Seeking Role  About 4 percent of the $363 billion of muni debt issued
last year through Dec. 13 was insured, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. in
2012 insured $13 billion in new bonds and $1.3 billion in the
secondary market, according to the company’s statement.  Some investors are betting insurance could rebound. Build
America Mutual, which began insuring bonds last year, is the
first new insurer of local debt since  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Assurance Corp. entered the market in 2007.  “Bond insurance will continue to play an important role in
the municipal market,” Sean McCarthy, chief executive officer
of Build America Mutual, said in a statement.  Assured had already lost investment-grade status in the
eyes of investors, according to Moody’s Corp.’s separate
capital-markets research group. Its credit-default swaps trade
at prices implying the debt is rated B3, six steps below
investment grade. The contracts have signaled the company should
be rated junk by Moody’s Investors Service since August 2007.  Standard & Poor’s rates Assured Guaranty Corp. and Assured
Guaranty Municipal Corp. AA-, fourth-highest, with a stable
outlook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  