-- Australia Rejects Spending Cuts to Reach Surplus, Swan Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-01-19T01:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/australia-rules-out-spending-cuts-to-reach-surplus-swan-says.html
Australia ’s government will refrain
from implementing “savage” cuts to public-service expenditure
in order to fulfill its pledge to return the budget to surplus
in this election year, Treasurer Wayne Swan said.  “One thing is certain -- savage cuts would be the wrong
thing for our economy,” Swan told business leaders in New York
yesterday. “It would not be responsible for any government to
make deep spending cuts to try and fill a hole in tax revenue
when that would put growth and jobs at risk.”  Swan’s comments come a month after he said he’s unlikely to
deliver a pledged budget surplus this fiscal year as weaker
growth and a strong local currency curb tax receipts.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard, trailing in polls ahead of
this year’s election, last May staked her economic credibility
on achieving a A$46 billion ($48.3 billion) fiscal reversal,
driven by the first overall cut to government spending in at
least 42 years.  “Further turbulence in the global economy in the second
half of last year has meant we’ve had to write down in just four
months the revenue loss we expected over a full year,” Swan
said. “We are still delivering one of the biggest fiscal
consolidations in our nation’s history, and we’ll continue our
fiscal discipline despite the big revenue write downs which have
made a surplus unlikely this year.”  The government, in a midyear review released in October,
forecast a budget surplus of A$1.08 billion in the 12 months
ending June 30. It recorded a A$44 billion deficit last fiscal
year.  Commodity Weakness  Weaker commodity prices and an elevated currency have
prompted mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to put off
projects and cut jobs, while a construction slump forced
building-materials company  Boral Ltd. (BLD)  to reduce payrolls.  “You can use every defense in your policy arsenal at home,
but when it comes to the global economy some things are simply
out of your hands,” Swan said.  In August, Resource Minister Martin Ferguson told reporters
that “the resources boom is over,” while Reserve Bank of
Australia Governor Glenn Stevens told lawmakers “the peak of
the resource investment boom as a share of gross domestic
product, the highest such peak in at least a century, will occur
within the next year or two.”  Boom ‘Claptrap’  Swan told his audience in New York that such talk is
“claptrap.”  “Let me also be very clear that you have been hearing
claptrap getting around about it being over,” Swan said. “The
mining boom is best described as having three overlapping phases
-- a boom in prices, then investment, and then in production. We
passed the peak in prices a bit over a year ago as we’d
expected, but we also see our terms of trade remaining at
historically high levels. And the second and third phases of the
boom still have a way to run.”  While Australian employers unexpectedly  cut payrolls  in
December and the unemployment rate rose, the economy expanded
3.1 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, among the
fastest in the developed world.  The Reserve Bank of Australia’s latest benchmark rate cut
to 3 percent on Dec. 4 made it 1.75 percentage points in
reductions in 14 months, which may aid Labor’s re-election
chances as about 90 percent of the nation’s mortgages are at
variable rates.  Poll Gain  Gillard’s Labor rose 3 percentage points to 49 percent on a
two-party preferred basis, with Tony Abbott’s Liberal-National
coalition falling 3 points to 51 percent, according to a
Newspoll survey published in the Australian newspaper on Jan.
15. The measure is the best gauge of which major party will
probably to win the seats required to form a government.  With an election to be held by Nov. 30, Swan said yesterday
the government wouldn’t cut spending in its annual budget, to be
delivered May 14, at the expense of its policy commitments to
revamp funding for education and disability welfare.  Gillard is seeking to legislate in parliament this year to
implement some of the changes in schooling urged in a report
headed by Australian Future Fund Chairman David Gonski. The
report found earlier this year that spending may need to rise by
about A$5 billion a year to improve education at government-
funded schools, particularly in disadvantaged and rural areas.  “Let me be crystal clear,” Swan told his New York
audience. “The budget outcome for 2012-13 has no bearing at all
on our determination to make room for our medium-term priorities
like the Gonski education reforms and the National Disability
Insurance Scheme.”  Productivity Priority  Swan also said a priority for his government was boosting
labor productivity growth, “which has been in structural
decline for the past decade or so.”  Looking overseas, Swan said  China  was managing its
transition to more consumption-led growth “pretty well.” He
called on  Europe  to balance fiscal restraint with the needs of
stimulus and growth and said he was “deeply” concerned about
the looming U.S. debt ceiling debate.  “I think 2013 could be a better year for the global
recovery, but only if policy makers around the world do the
right thing for growth and jobs,” Swan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  