-- Bacon’s Birds, Tudor Jones Roast, Fowl Ladies: N.Y. Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-01-18T16:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/bacon-s-birds-tudor-jones-roast-fowl-ladies-n-y-scene.html
“Frankly, my dear, you should give
a damn,”  Louis Bacon  said last night, paraphrasing from what he
called his holy book, “Gone With the Wind.”  The Raleigh, North Carolina-born hedge-fund manager, who
looks a bit like Rhett Butler (especially the hair), exhorted
guests to protect nature as he accepted the National Audubon
Society’s Audubon Medal.  Later, as the evening wound down by the elevators outside
the Plaza Hotel’s ballroom, Bacon, mingling with  Uma Thurman  and
Arpad Busson, held the medal. It came on a blue ribbon, framed
and under glass.  “I’d like him to wear it -- every night,” said his wife,
Gabrielle Bacon.  With that, the couple clasped hands and made their way
home, a slightly different ending than the movie version of
Margaret Mitchell’s Pulitzer-winning novel.  Bacon recently took the reins of Orton Plantation, in
Brunswick County,  North Carolina , where an ancestor built a home
in 1735 -- a Moore, on his mother’s side, after whom his firm,
Moore Capital Management LP, is named. Bacon is replanting its
rice fields to recreate a habitat for water fowl, and restoring
a native forest to welcome back woodpeckers.  Paul Tudor Jones  roasted his friend of 30 years, joking
about the land Bacon preserved in  Long Island  being “the only
neighborhood in the Hamptons that let him move in” and noting
that Bacon had spent “vast amounts of money preserving land
just so he could get someone to go fishing with him.”  Then Jones, himself a defender of the Everglades, wept as
he thanked Bacon, on behalf of fish and fowl, for doing his
part.  Body Paint  Five women costumed as North American birds circulated
during cocktail hour. They wore bras and undies, a feather here
and there, and body paint (they’d spent six hours standing
during their transformation).  Each ably identified herself (which most guests --
including Jonathan Rosen, author of a book about birding --
failed at). There was a red-breasted robin, a Blackburnian
warbler, a loon, a blue jay and a calliope hummingbird.  “Mrs. Bacon and I thought of it,” said Ann Colley, the
executive director of the Moore Charitable Foundation, which has
carried out much of Bacon’s conservation work. “We didn’t want
it to be boring.”  It worked. “Someone said, ’Have you seen the birds?’ I had
to come find you,” said David Koehler, vice president for
advancement at International Crane Foundation Inc., to the
painted women.  Endangered Cranes  Koehler was there to see the organization co-founder,
George Archibald, receive the society’s Dan W. Lufkin Prize for
Environmental Leadership. Eleven of the 15 species of cranes are
endangered.  In addition to referring to his holy book, Bacon said being
an effective environmentalist depends on being able to
collaborate, lead from behind and be a pest.  He recalled his intention, after graduating from Middlebury
College with a degree in American Literature, to “make a quick
fortune and above all get out quickly” so he could spend the
rest of his life hunting and fishing.  “That master plan has been a total failure because I’m
still on  Wall Street ,” he said. Yet he finds time for hunting
and fishing, and his fortune has helped protect many areas,
including two easements on ranches in  Colorado  that represent
the largest donation ever to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
about 170,000 acres.  The event drew 560 guests and raised more than $2.4
million.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater ,  Greg
Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on  movies .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 