-- Baht Set for Best Weekly Rally in a Year on Inflow of Funds
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-01-18T02:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/baht-set-for-best-weekly-rally-in-a-year-on-inflow-of-funds.html
Thailand ’s baht was poised for its
biggest weekly advance since December 2011, and government bonds
rose, as global funds increased holdings of assets that offer
higher yields.  The currency touched a 17-month high yesterday as overseas
investors  bought  $2.6 billion more of sovereign debt than they
sold this month and purchased a net $297 million of equities,
Thai Bond Market Association and stock exchange data show. The
baht retreated after Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said
yesterday exporters will face difficulties if it strengthens
further. The 10-year bond yields 3.7 percent, compared with 1.87
percent in the U.S. and 0.75 percent in  Japan .  “Funds are flowing into the whole of Asia, especially
Southeast Asia, and Thailand is one of the most attractive
places,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life
Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “It’s possible to see
smoothing operations to slow the pace of the appreciation, but
they may not aggressively intervene to weaken the baht.”  The baht climbed 1.7 percent from a week ago to 29.78 per
dollar as of 8:30 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency, little changed today, reached 29.72
yesterday, the most since August 2011. It was headed for a
seventh weekly advance, the longest winning stretch since
October 2010.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options rose 20 basis points, or
0.2 percentage point, this week to 4.3 percent. The rate fell 22
basis points today.  ‘Closely Watching’  Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said
yesterday that capital inflows into short-term securities were
driving the currency higher. The central bank is “closely
watching” the situation and has measures to deal with the issue
if needed, he said. Capital inflows totaling several billion
baht have been recorded in Thailand’s bond market this week,
mostly in short-term securities, Niwat Kanjanaphoomin, president
of the Thai Bond Market Association, said this week.  Government bonds were headed for their first weekly advance
this year. The yield on the 3.125 percent government bonds due
December 2015 declined four basis points in the five-day period
to 2.93 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It was little
changed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  