-- Banco do Brasil Said to Seek 75% Banco Votorantim Stake
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-01-18T23:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/banco-do-brasil-said-to-seek-75-banco-votorantim-stake.html
Banco do Brasil SA , the biggest
Latin American lender by assets, is in talks to buy the Banco
Votorantim SA preferred shares it doesn’t already own and boost
its stake in the company’s total capital to 75 percent, two
people with direct knowledge of the plan said.  The companies are still discussing the proposed transaction
and no estimate of the cost was available, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the discussions are private.
 Banco do Brasil  already holds 49.99 percent of the voting shares
and 50 percent of the preferred shares of Sao Paulo-based Banco
Votorantim.  A deal would give Banco do Brasil more revenue from Banco
Votorantim, and the government-owned company could use
Votorantim’s local brokerage to build an investment bank with a
more flexible wage policy than state-controlled companies must
follow, the people said.  Banco do Brasil is also seeking to expand in  auto loans ,
paycheck loans and credit for mid-size companies to counter
increasing competition from local banks.  Votorantim Financas SA, which owns 50.01 percent of Banco
Votorantim’s voting shares, said in a statement this afternoon
that control of the bank isn’t being negotiated. In a separate
statement, Banco do Brasil said that it isn’t seeking control of
the lender and that no public equity offering is being
considered.  Votorantim Financas and Banco do Brasil injected a total of
2 billion reais ($980 million) into Banco Votorantim last year
to reinforce the lender’s capital.  Banco do Brasil is studying the idea of taking a bigger
stake in Banco Votorantim, according to a regulatory filing in
the morning. A transaction would involve only preferred shares,
Brasilia-based Banco do Brasil said, adding that no agreement
has been made.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  