-- Bangladesh Drops Death Penalty Plan After Bundesbank Objects
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-01-18T11:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/bangladesh-drops-death-penalty-proposal-after-bundesbank-objects.html
Bangladesh’s central bank plans to
drop a proposal seeking death penalty for currency forgers after
 Germany ’s Bundesbank shelved an anti-counterfeiting partnership
with the South Asian nation citing the punishment.  The venture was originally scheduled to begin in February,
the Bundesbank said. It had not been aware of the death-penalty
threat when it offered consultation and training services on
counterfeit prevention as part of its cooperation activities,
the German central bank said in a statement yesterday, putting
the partnership on hold.  “Ours is a central bank with a human face and the death
penalty in this case goes against these principles,” Bangladesh
Bank Governor Atiur Rahman said in a phone interview. “The
proposal is being called back.”  The central bank had sent the recommendation imposing a
death penalty for counterfeiting to the Ministry of Finance on
Jan. 2 “inadvertently, without due review,” Rahman said.
 Bangladesh  in October arrested 10 people in two raids for
printing 88,000 Indian rupees ($1,630) and 25 million taka
($315,000) of currency notes, the Daily Star newspaper  reported .  The Bundesbank, which is yet to receive an official
response from Bangladesh Bank, will have to consult on the new
developments, said a spokesman, who declined to be identified,
citing central bank rules. It’s too early to talk about a
resumption of the venture, he said.  “While the Bundesbank believes that counterfeiting is a
serious criminal offense, it considers the threat of imposing
the death penalty to be excessive,” it said in yesterday’s
statement. “Unless Bangladesh clearly and irrevocably drops
these plans, the Bundesbank will terminate the consultation
project before it has begun.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  