-- Bank E-Mails Reveal Allegations of Manipulation of Norway Rates
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-01-18T15:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/bank-e-mails-reveal-allegations-of-manipulation-of-norway-rates.html
Norway ’s financial regulator and
central bank have received e-mails since 2010 from bankers
outside the country alleging that interbank lending rates were
being rigged.  The complaints came from “foreign banks,” raising
concerns about the manipulation of the  Norwegian interbank
offered rate , or Nibor, the central bank said in an August
letter to the Financial Supervisory Authority obtained by
Bloomberg today.  “As a market participant and as one of the largest issuers
of Norwegian denominated debt I am writing to complain about the
Norwegian fixings,” a banker, whose name was blacked out, wrote
in a June 2010 e-mail that was released by the central bank.
“They seem to bear no resemblance to market realities and we
suspect fixings that resemble market abuse.”  The central bank in December announced it was investigating
the setting of the rate, which is used as benchmark for  mortgage
rates , corporate bond yields and derivative contracts. Nibor is
calculated as an average of rates published by a panel of banks
for various maturities, excluding low and high quotes, according
to the Finance Norway, which represents banks in the country.  The panel is made up of  DNB ASA (DNB) ,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , Nordea Bank Norge ASA,  SEB AB (SEBA)  and  Swedbank AB. (SWEDA) 
Since there are very few loans given between banks that extend
beyond a few days, longer maturity Nibor rates are based on U.S.
dollar rates and on the term premium for the dollar and krone,
according to the central bank.  More Volatile  The currency aspect has made Nibor more volatile, the
central bank said.  “We don’t recognize ourselves in the accusations directed
at determining Nibor,” Oslo-based Danske Bank spokesman Stian
Arnesen said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “We have good
internal procedures for determining our contribution and we do
trust the routines for Nibor fixing determined by Finance
Norway.”  Nordea spokesman Thomas Sevang said the bank “welcomes
that this is being investigated,” by phone today. “We have no
reason” to believe “that anything is wrong and we follow that
procedure,” he said.  Handelsbanken has “no information that suggests any wrong-
doing,” spokesman Lars N. Saethre said by phone. “We regard
this as unlikely.”  In a June 2010 e-mail, a banker said Nibor moves have
“failed to reflect the prevailing market conditions” and since
they have trades that are affected by the rate, they “wouldn’t
wish to feel that we are at the whim of the local panel banks.”  ‘Big Player’  An e-mail from a “big market player” in March last year
said moves in Nibor showed it was clear the panel kept rates up
until a “position” rolled off. “If this isn’t market
manipulation I don’t know what is,” the author of the e-mail
wrote.  An e-mail from “a large international bank” to Finance
Norway, which was forwarded to the central bank, recommended
authorities look into “what off balance sheet deals they had
fixing.”  Dagens Naeringsliv reported today that one of the
complaints was sent by a banker at  Royal Bank of Canada . The
central bank declined to say who sent the e-mails. RBC
spokeswoman Louisa Fairman also declined to comment.  FSA Monitoring  Jan Digranes, head of the banking and capital markets
department at Finance Norway said “We have no reason to believe
that there has been any manipulation of the  interest rate ,” by
phone today. The group represents about 200 financial
institutions operating in Norway.  The Finance Ministry in December asked the FSA and Norges
Bank, as the central bank is called, to assess whether Nibor
accurately reflects the rates on unsecured loans between banks
and whether fixing is sufficiently robust. The ministry also
backed calls from the financial regulator for improved
supervision of the rate. The FSA will monitor individual banks
in cases where there is reason to suspect manipulation, it said.  Interbank rates have come under international scrutiny
after Barclays Plc was fined a record 290 million pounds ($468
million) in June for attempting to rig the London interbank
offered rate and the European Interbank rate. At least 12 banks
including Deutsche Bank AG are being investigated for
manipulating Libor.  In Scandinavia,  Denmark  has conducted a probe of the
Copenhagen interbank offered rate amid speculation it was
manipulated during the financial crisis, while  Sweden  has also
reviewed its equivalent rate, called Stibor.  Norway’s central bank has repeatedly pointed to weaknesses
in Nibor. Former central bank Governor Svein Gjedrem in 2010
exposed shortcomings in the way Nibor is set, saying the bank
will take steps to improve the structure. Gjedrem became
secretary general at the Norwegian  Finance Ministry  in 2011
after completing two terms as central bank governor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  