-- Bank LTRO Repayment Prospects Stoke Bets Borrowing Costs to Rise
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-01-18T12:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/bank-ltro-repayment-prospects-stoke-bets-borrowing-costs-to-rise.html
Speculation that banks will start
repaying European Central Bank loans early prompted futures
traders to step up bets that borrowing costs will rise as
liquidity is drained from the system.  The implied rate on Euribor futures expiring in December
rose as much as 18 basis points over the past two days to 0.54
percent, the highest since July 10, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest jump since the yield started
climbing in December, after a 29 basis-point drop in the
preceding three months.  Banks can soon start repaying about 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of cheap loans that the ECB provided under its longer-
term refinancing operations to avert a credit crunch. Concern
the Frankfurt-based central bank will tighten its collateral
rules also helped push indicators of future interbank borrowing
costs higher.  “The repayment of the LTRO money has the potential to
throw key market trends into reverse,”  Christoph Rieger , head
of fixed-rate strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , wrote in
a note. “Reportedly the ECB is mulling plans to restrict loan
collateral. This would add to the pressure on peripheral banks
to reduce ECB funding,” though only marginally, he wrote.  The implied rate on three-month euro interbank offered rate
futures due in December rose 0.5 basis point today to 0.46
percent at 11:38 a.m. in  London . That’s after paring its earlier
increase.  Euribor Rising  The three-month Euribor rate was set at 0.209 percent,
according to the European Banking Federation. The measure of
bank-loan rates is up from a record low 0.181 percent on Dec.
11. It was as high as 5.393 percent in October 2008.  Banks in  Europe ’s so-called core countries including
 Germany  will probably be the first to repay the ECB loans,
according to Deutsche Bank AG.  The ECB is considering new rules that would require banks
to provide more information about loans they pledge as
collateral for borrowing, said a person with knowledge of the
situation who asked not to be identified because the discussions
are private.  The ECB is trying to increase the quality of the security
it takes in against lending in a move that may end up increasing
borrowing costs for banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  