-- Bloomberg Billionaires Index: Methodology
-- B y   M a t t h e w   G .   M i l l e r
-- 2013-01-18T23:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/bloomberg-billionaires-index-methodology.html
The  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  is
a daily ranking of the world’s richest people. In calculating
net worth,  Bloomberg News  strives to provide the most
transparent calculations available. Each Bloomberg Billionaire
profile contains a detailed analysis of how that person’s
fortune is tallied.  The index is a dynamic measure of the world’s wealthy based
on changes in markets, the economy and Bloomberg reporting. Each
net worth figure is updated every business day at 5:30 p.m. in
New York. Stakes in publicly traded companies are valued using
the share’s most recent closing price. Valuations are converted
to U.S. dollars at current exchange rates.  Closely held companies are valued in several ways, such as
by comparing the enterprise value-to-Ebitda or price-to-earnings
ratios of similar public companies. The criteria used depends on
the company’s industry and size. Calculations of closely held
company debt are based on the net debt-to-Ebitda ratios of
comparable peers.  When ownership of closely held assets cannot be verified,
they aren’t included in the calculations. The specific valuation
methodology for each closely held company is included in the net
worth analysis section of a billionaire’s profile. The full
profile is available only to Bloomberg Professional subscribers.  A liquidity discount of 5 percent is applied to most
closely held companies where assets may be hard to sell. It is
noted when a different percentage is used. No liquidity
discounts were used in calculating values of public stakes. In
some instances, a country risk discount is also applied, based
on a person’s concentration of assets and ease of selling them
in a given geography. A country’s risk is assessed based on
 Standard & Poor’s  sovereign debt ratings.  Net worth calculations include dividend income paid and
proceeds from the sale of public and closely held shares. Taxes
are deducted based on prevailing income, dividend and capital
gains tax rates in a billionaire’s country of residence. Taxes
are applied at the highest rate unless there is evidence to
support a lower percentage. For calculations of cash and other
investable assets, a hybrid return based on holdings in cash,
 government bonds , equities and commodities is applied.  No assumptions are made about personal debt. Family members
often hold a portion of the billionaire’s assets. Such transfers
don’t change the nature of who ultimately controls the fortune.
As a result, Bloomberg News operates under the rule that all
billionaire fortunes are inherently family fortunes.  Each billionaire or his or her representative is given an
opportunity to respond to questions regarding the net worth
calculation, including assets and liabilities.  Bloomberg News editorial policy is to not cover Bloomberg
L.P. As a result  Michael Bloomberg , the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg LP, isn’t considered for this ranking.  Because calculating net worth requires a degree of
estimation, bull and bear case scenarios that would make a
person’s fortune higher or lower than the Bloomberg News
calculation is included on the Bloomberg Professional Service. A
confidence rating also is included on each profile.  5 Star - The majority of the individual’s fortune is held in
publicly traded companies. The billionaire or their
representatives provides insight on the net worth calculation.  4 Star - The majority of the individual’s fortune is held in
publicly traded companies or closely held operations in a
country where transparent data is available. The billionaire may
hold shares through a holding company where ownership is not
transparent. The billionaire or their representatives may
provide insight on the net worth calculation.  3 Star - The majority of the individual’s fortune is held in
closely held companies, or public companies based in a country
where transparent information is often unreliable. The
billionaire or their representatives won’t comment on the net
worth calculation.  2 Star - The majority of the individual’s fortune is held in
closely held assets. Often more than half of the calculation is
based on an estimation of cash and other outside investments.
The billionaire or their representatives won’t comment on the
net worth calculation.  1 Star - The majority of the individual’s fortune is held in
closely held assets where limited information is available.
Often almost all of the calculation is based on an estimation of
cash and other investable securities. The billionaire or their
representatives won’t comment on the net worth calculation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew G. Miller in  New York  at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  