-- BNP Paribas, SocGen Said to Start Repaying ECB Loans in Weeks
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-01-18T16:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/bnp-paribas-socgen-said-to-start-repaying-ecb-loans-in-weeks.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Societe Generale
SA (GLE)  may begin repaying three-year loans from the  European Central
Bank  within weeks after access to funding markets improved, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The banks,  France ’s largest by  market value , are
considering starting to reimburse the funds gradually as early
as Jan. 30, when the Frankfurt-based ECB begins accepting
repayments for its long-term refinancing operation, said the
people, who requested anonymity because the matter is private.  European banks borrowed about 1 trillion euros ($1.33
trillion) during two three-year loan allotments in December 2011
and February 2012 as the ECB sought to prevent the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis from spawning a credit crunch. Funding
conditions have since improved, reducing the extra yield
investors demand to hold European financial company bonds
compared with German government debt to the lowest since
February 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Financials
Index shows.  “Whilst many banks have been reticent to disclose their
plans, if any, regarding the repayment of ECB funding, we
believe that the lion’s share will be confined to national
champions from the northern euro zone and the U.K.,” Morgan
Stanley analysts led by Huw van Steenis in  London  said in a Jan.
15 report.  A spokesman at BNP Paribas and a spokeswoman at Societe
Generale declined to comment.  Funding Costs  Banks’ net borrowing in the LTRO amounted to about 510
billion euros, with French lenders accounting for about 45
billion euros, or 9 percent of the total, the Morgan Stanley
analysts estimated.  Europe ’s banks may reimburse as much as 200
billion euros this year of the net amount, with French banks
repaying at least 25 billion euros, the analysts wrote.  With French sovereign yields near record lows and
investors’ concern over the euro-area debt crisis receding,
France’s largest banks have been able to sell bonds at yields
competitive with the cost of the ECB’s loans.  On Jan. 3,  Societe Generale  sold 2 billion euros of two-
year notes yielding 48 basis points more than three-month
Euribor. BNP Paribas today added 1 billion euros to its
floating-rate notes due December 2014 at 33 basis points more
than  three-month Euribor , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A basis point is equivalent to a hundredth of a
percentage point.  Italy, Spain  LTRO borrowers must pay interest equivalent to the average
rate of the ECB’s main refinancing operations over the life of
the loan. The central bank’s benchmark rate currently stands at
0.75 percent, down from 1 percent when the loans were made.  Not all banks will rush to repay the funds. Spanish and
Italian banks will remain “heavily reliant on ECB money,” the
Morgan Stanley analysts wrote. The 12 billion euros borrowed by
BNP Paribas’s Italian unit is likely “to remain untouched,”
the analysts said.  Italian banks may hold onto ECB funds as other financing is
still more expensive.  “We are not planning to repay the LTRO in the short
term,” said Victor Massiah, the chief executive officer of
Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA, which borrowed 12 billion euros
in the LTRO. “Given the current costs of funding, it’s more
profitable for Italian banks to do arbitrage using ECB
facilities,” he told reporters in Milan today.  Italian lenders are using low-cost funds borrowed from the
ECB to invest in the nation’s short-term government bonds.
Italian sovereign debt held by banks in the country increased 64
percent to 344 billion euros in first 11 months of 2012. That
helped income from trading more than double at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA,  Italy ’s biggest banks, in the first nine
months of last year, according to company reports.  Intesa General Manager Carlo Messina said in November that
“it is absolutely our convenience to maintain the LTRO,” while
UniCredit CEO Federico Ghizzoni said today he will wait until
the last minute to decide on reimbursing the funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 