-- Boeing Engineers Move Toward Strike Amid 787 Woes
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-01-18T02:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/boeing-engineers-move-toward-strike-amid-787-woes.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  engineers may go on
strike in coming weeks, even as the planemaker scrambles to
investigate and fix faulty batteries that grounded its marquee
787 Dreamliner this week.  The Society of Professional Engineering Employees in
Aerospace today urged members to reject the company’s best-and-
final contract offer in a vote that will be set “in coming
weeks.” The ballot is likely to include a request for strike
authorization, the union said in a statement, saying the
proposal puts retirement benefits at risk.  Boeing proposed salary-increase pools of 5 percent a year
over a four-year contract and no change to the health-care plan.
New employees would be switched over to a 401(k)-style defined-
contribution retirement plan instead of the current defined-
benefit pension. That’s been a point of contention in talks.  “This is a market-leading offer by all measures –-
rewarding our employees for the contributions they make every
day,” Mike Delaney, vice president of engineering for Boeing
Commercial Airplanes, said in the company’s statement.
“Agreeing to this contract as soon as possible will allow all
of us to focus our time and energy on the immediate challenges
facing the company.”  The challenge right now is to figure out what is
responsible for battery faults in two 787 Dreamliners, causing a
fire in one and an emergency landing for another and forcing
regulators to ground the global fleet indefinitely while it’s
investigated.  Boeing’s insistence on changing the pension is “a move
that escalates its mounting problems,” Speea said in its
statement. “Boeing’s actions reiterate the company’s growing
disrespect for the engineers and technical workers who are
essential to working issues and restoring confidence in the
787.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  