-- Bad Batteries Seen as Best Case for 787 Overcoming Past
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y ,   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2013-01-18T21:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/boeing-787-plane-of-future-struggles-to-overcome-past.html
A telling image of the development
of  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner came in mid-2011, when dozens of
them sat, unfinished, crammed into nooks and crannies around
Boeing factories and rented tarmacs spread across two states.
Concrete blocks hung from their wings to prevent them from
tipping because they didn’t have engines to keep them balanced.  With delay after delay plaguing the aircraft’s entry into
service, Boeing ultimately had built about 40 by the time it got
final Federal Aviation Administration certification. That became
a drag on Boeing -- at one point it had $16.2 billion of
inventory related to the 787 -- and an important element of the
current crisis in which every Dreamliner worldwide has been
grounded after two suffered lithium-ion battery failures.  About 800 Dreamliners are still on order from the world’s
airlines, with years of deliveries ahead on planes whose  list
price  starts at about $207 million. In buying a new model,
airlines make major decisions about the future, such as whether
to replace old jets or add destinations. Route networks can be
determined a decade in advance by a new-generation plane.  “The thing the company has to get right is the 787,”
Chief Executive Officer James McNerney, a protege of Jack Welch
who had a bright career before joining Boeing, told Bloomberg
News in 2006. “Executing that program is our biggest
opportunity and our biggest risk if we don’t do it well.”  New Model  The 787 is the first U.S. commercial airliner the FAA has
grounded since the DC-10 in 1979 after a  Chicago  crash that
killed 271 people. Other countries followed the FAA’s 787 lead,
in effect parking the global fleet. LOT Polish Airlines SA’s 787
was stranded in Chicago after its maiden trans-Atlantic flight.  U.S. officials and Boeing are investigating whether
defective batteries from the same batch caused the failures,
according to two people familiar with the incidents. If
confirmed, it could show a flaw causing the incidents was
confined to a small number of 787s, rather than a systemic fault
with the plane’s engineering, design or manufacturing, and could
speed the resumption of flights.  Boeing fell 0.3 percent to $75.04, extending its decline
since just before the Jan. 7 fire to 3.4 percent. The shares are
down 26 percent since the day before Boeing’s October 2007
announcement of the first of seven delays in the 787’s initial
delivery.  Dreamliner Narrative  The issue for Boeing is that the current struggles solidify
the existing narrative about the Dreamliner, which has been
troubled for years. Its story is a sweep of history that
includes the 9/11 attacks, a major corporate merger and the
question of why and how the U.S. government ultimately approved
technology that, at the moment, may appear flawed.  The 787 is a replacement for Chicago-based Boeing’s 767, an
aging twin-engine model that has been losing sales to the Airbus
SAS A330. It’s Boeing’s first new commercial jet since the 777
in 1995 and the first produced since the company acquired
McDonnell Douglas Corp. in 1997.  Boeing’s engineers in the 1990s began working on the plane
of the future, an airliner that could approach supersonic
speeds. They had done big -- the 747 -- and they were planning
their next challenge.  Under Alan Mulally, Boeing’s commercial airplane unit
proposed a model called the Sonic Cruiser in early 2001. It
would fly 95 percent of the speed of sound and shave about an
hour off the flight time between New York and  London . The Sonic
Cruiser project was revered within Boeing and given significant
resources and attention.  Several carriers signaled interest, including  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
American Airlines.  Sept. 11  Boeing dropped the idea after the Sept. 11 attacks and
their aftermath -- recession, higher oil prices -- spurred
airlines to focus on fuel efficiency. Boeing cannibalized
technology from the Sonic Cruiser and used it for the proposed
7E7, which wouldn’t be any faster than current planes, but would
burn 20 percent less fuel. Boeing variously said the “E” stood
for “efficiency” or “environmental.”  The 7E7 was later renamed the 787, and not just because
that was the next logical step in Boeing’s lineup after the 777.
The number eight is considered lucky in  China , and the 787 was
supposed to be ready in time for Chinese airlines to debut it at
the 2008 Olympics in Beijing.  The new jet would use more composite plastics than any
other airliner. While composites had been used for military
fighters, and for some parts of other planes like part of the
777’s tail, no commercial plane had ever used nearly as much,
making it considerably lighter and more fuel-efficient.  New Power  That means the airplane could go long distances with two
engines instead of four, giving it greater range than its twin-
engine peers and better fuel economy than jumbo jets. To do
that, the plane would need a new kind of power.  Other aircraft bleed air off the engines for a pneumatic
system to power a variety of critical functions, such as air
conditioning. That diverts power from the engines that they
could otherwise use for thrust, and means they use more fuel.  With an electrical system for the jet’s other needs, the
engines become much more efficient. The 787 uses five times as
much electricity as the 767, enough to power 400 homes. To jump-
start a so-called auxiliary power unit that’s used on the ground
and as a backup in case all the plane’s generators failed,
Boeing decided on a lithium-ion battery because it holds more
energy and can be quickly recharged, Mike Sinnett, the 787
project engineer, said in a briefing last week.  More Flammable  Those capabilities also make lithium-ion cells more
flammable than other battery technology, and they can create
sparks and high heat if not properly discharged. Chemicals
inside the battery are also flammable and hard to extinguish
because they contain their own source of oxygen, Sinnett said.  In a worst-case scenario in which the batteries burn, they
are designed to do so in a way that doesn’t threaten the
aircraft, Sinnett said. If the jet is airborne, smoke is
supposed to be vented out of the compartment so it doesn’t reach
the cabin, he said, and the plane’s ability to stay aloft
wouldn’t be harmed even if all of the battery cells ignite.  While all of the work on the 7E7 germinated, Boeing was in
the midst of a huge corporate change. The McDonnell Douglas
purchase was supposed to boost the defense side of the business,
helping balance the cyclical nature of commercial planemaking.
Longtime Boeing people still grouse about the move.  New Tone  McDonnell executives were given a significant role in the
combined enterprise. Before this, Boeing had been considered an
engineer’s company. It had the feel of a gritty sort of family
company that cared about making good planes no matter what the
cost. It was almost entirely based in  Seattle , where Bill Boeing
built his first float plane on the shores of Lake Union in 1916.  Now engineers were required to make finances a priority.
Boeing’s leadership even moved the corporate headquarters to
Chicago.  Mulally, then the head of the commercial unit, needed to
rein in costs under Chief Operating Officer Harry Stonecipher,
who came from McDonnell Douglas and championed boosting
shareholder value. Mulally decided he could only build the 7E7
by sharing the investment and costs with suppliers. A new
production system was devised, with 70 percent of the plane
designed and built by suppliers around the world.  In the past, Boeing had more control over the design and
the work of its suppliers. Now, Boeing turned the suppliers into
partners instead of servants, and gave up its control.  Orders rolled in -- the most for any new airliner in
history.  Scandal Fallout  Boeing’s management, meantime, was roiled by scandals, many
at the military businesses acquired from McDonnell Douglas. CFO
Michael Sears left in 2003 in a procurement scandal -- he later
went to jail -- and Boeing CEO Phil Condit quit. Stonecipher
resigned in 2005 over an affair with a subordinate.  Competition for the CEO job came down to Mulally, who had
led development of the 777 and was a favorite of Boeing’s
engineers, and McNerney, the former General Electric Co.
executive and CEO of  3M Co. (MMM)  The board chose McNerney. Mulally
became  Ford Motor Co. (F)  CEO in 2006 and returned the automaker to
profit with a strategy that hinged on vehicle efficiency and
quality.  Temporary Fasteners  When Boeing rolled out the 787 in a big public ceremony on
July 8, 2007 -- 7/8/7 -- the celebration masked the uncompleted
jobs and engineering work still to be done. The plane was held
together with temporary fasteners.  Meantime, Boeing notified the FAA that it wanted to use
lithium-ion rechargeable batteries in ways that had never been
tried before on a large commercial jet.  During this period, the FAA was attempting to change its
culture. In President George W. Bush’s administration, FAA
Administrator Marion Blakey began what was known as the
“customer-service initiative” to make the agency more
responsive to industry, according to a 2003 fact sheet.  Responding to complaints that the agency didn’t apply
regulations equally and took too long to act, Blakey sought to
“make every FAA employee accountable for achieving the agency’s
mission,” the fact sheet said. The FAA would consider airlines
and manufacturers, such as Boeing, its customers.  The initiative ran into trouble in 2008 after congressional
investigators found that an FAA supervisor in  Texas  had given
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  permission to fly Boeing 737s without
performing required inspections for cracks.  FAA Administrator Randy Babbitt, appointed by President
 Barack Obama , rescinded the initiative in September 2009.  Transcending Rules  Normally, the design of an aircraft is governed by
longstanding federal regulations. In the case of the Dreamliner,
there was nothing on the books to guide the FAA on  lithium
batteries , certain types of which had been banned from passenger
flights in 2004 because they were so flammable.  To ensure that the jet was safe, the FAA considered the
request under what was known as “special conditions.”  In April 2007, the agency said in the Federal Registry that
it was considering Boeing’s request and asked for comments from
other interested parties. Two months later, the  Air Line Pilots
Association , the largest North American union for flight crews,
responded, saying that it conditionally supported the measure,
while seeking greater protections.  “We are concerned with a fire erupting in flight, and
being able to rapidly extinguish it,” wrote Richard Kessel, an
engineer with the pilots group. “The special conditions should
require that there be a means provided to apply extinguishing
agents by the flight (cabin) crew.”  Battery Approval  The FAA approved the batteries for the 787 in October of
that year, according to the Federal Register, rejecting ALPA’s
request for a requirement that battery fires could be
extinguished. The rules were designed to prevent fires from
happening in the first place, the FAA said.  The rules, which applied only to the 787, required that
battery cells wouldn’t overheat, emit toxic gases that could
accumulate in the plane, or explode. If a battery did fail, it
couldn’t damage equipment, wiring or the aircraft’s structure,
the agency said.  Boeing had said at the rollout that it was targeting a
maiden flight in fall 2007 and the first delivery, to  All Nippon
Airways Co. (9202) , in May 2008. In October 2007, Boeing acknowledged
that suppliers were drastically behind and the plane’s entry
into service would be delayed.  First Postponement  This was the first postponement. The seventh came after a
fire during a test flight in November 2010, which was linked to
the new electrical system and which forced the entire test fleet
to be grounded for six weeks. That added six months to the delay
while Boeing engineers redesigned software and hardware.  In the meantime, Boeing kept building Dreamliners, which is
why there were 40 sitting around by the time the first delivery
occurred on Sept. 25, 2011.  Usually, far fewer planes are finished by the time a plane
is handed over, so if a problem comes up, there aren’t that many
to fix. In this case, Boeing already has 100 to check out after
the battery fires.  “You might build a dozen and put those into service and
then start to build more, and a small number might have problems
and you fix those and build more,” said Richard Aboulafia, a
consultant with Teal Group in Fairfax, Virginia. “That’s the
unprecedented aspect of this program -- those delays between
building the planes and certifying them has been the painful
gift that just keeps on giving.”  Leaking Cell?  A flaw in a battery, such as a manufacturing defect that
allowed the flammable liquid inside to leak, might trigger a
fire in one battery cell that would then ignite other cells
within the pack, according to tests on generic batteries
conducted by the FAA.  “The battery failures resulted in release of flammable
electrolytes, heat damage, and smoke on two Model 787
airplanes,” the FAA said in a statement this week. “These
conditions, if not corrected, could result in damage to critical
systems and structures, and the potential for fire in the
electrical compartment.”  Blakey, the ex-FAA chief and current president of the
 Aerospace Industries Association of America  trade group, said
yesterday that the agency was responding properly to the fire
threat discovered on the Dreamliner.  ‘Go Forward’  “It makes all the sense in the world to address something
early, figure it out and go forward,” Blakey said at the
Bloomberg Global Markets Summit in New York. “I think all of
the customers are going to be pleased that happened, even though
it’s inconvenient.”  The batteries in the Dreamliner were made by Kyoto, Japan-
based  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) , which has said the Dreamliner’s faults may
go beyond the batteries.  Hiroharu Nakano, a spokesman for GS Yuasa, declined to
comment on whether the company has heard any customer
complaints.  Marc Birtel , a spokesman for Boeing, said he
couldn’t discuss anything related to the battery probe.  Financial risks to Boeing include possible compensation to
buyers under warranty, design and manufacturing expense, and
delivery disruptions,  Howard Rubel , a Jefferies Group Inc.
analyst in New York, told clients in a note.  The most likely outcome may be a cost of about $550
million, according to Rubel, who based his estimates on the
probability of different scenarios for Boeing, such as customer
reimbursements and spending on any redesign work. His buy rating
on Boeing is one of 23 such  recommendations  in a Bloomberg
survey of analysts, along with five holds and one sell.  Stock Gain  Boeing’s stock has risen 16 percent since July 1, 2005, the
day McNerney became CEO. That trails gains of 24 percent for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and 31 percent for Airbus parent
 European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  in the same period.  In the long run, the 787’s struggles may turn out to be
another passing phase in the jet’s development. This week, at
the  Detroit auto show , Ford’s Mulally was asked about the
Dreamliner.  “I haven’t been at Boeing for six years now, but I will
assure you that the 787 is going to change the flying experience
again, just like every other Boeing airplane,” he said. “New
airplanes are very hard, the issues that they’re having right
now in the big scheme of things are relatively small. They’ve
worked their way through. It’s going to be a fantastic
airplane.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  