-- Boeing Should Heed the Comet’s Cautionary Tale
-- B y   S a m   H o w e   V e r h o v e k
-- 2013-01-18T22:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/boeing-should-heed-the-comet-s-cautionary-tale.html
Over the past week or so, I’ve had a
surprising number of e-mails and calls asking roughly the same
question: Is the 787 another Comet?  The short answer is no. The Dreamliner, as  Boeing Co. (BA)  calls
its cutting-edge, now-grounded 787, isn’t the de Havilland
Comet.  The Comet, about which I wrote a  book  a few years ago, was
the world’s first jetliner, a spectacularly conceived and
tragically doomed technological leap into the future. The U.K.-
made Comet amazed the world when it started carrying passengers
in 1952, flying almost twice as fast and twice as high as any
propeller-driven airliner. But not long after it entered
service, and in a span of less than a year, three Comets blew
apart in the sky, killing everyone aboard.  The Dreamliner, which is an advanced though hardly
revolutionary new airplane, has a serious flaw, and one that
needs to be fixed. At least two of the Japanese-made lithium-ion
batteries that supply electrical power have malfunctioned. One
of the batteries caught fire in a parked  Japan  Airlines Co.
Dreamliner at  Boston ’s Logan Airport last week; another set off
a smoke alarm on an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  787 over southwestern
Japan. That Dreamliner made an emergency landing. The offending
battery -- about the size of a breadbox, as it happens -- turned
up swollen, charred and leaking flammable chemicals.  ‘Overall Integrity’  No passenger should be allowed aboard a Dreamliner until
this problem is solved, which it will be. Whether Boeing has
handled the controversy well is debatable: I’m not sure they hit
the right mark when executives said of the 787 that “We stand
behind its overall integrity.” People can have “overall
integrity” along with a range of human flaws; airliners can’t
have “overall integrity” if their batteries can leak, smoke,
catch fire or even explode.  But talk of the Dreamliner as a debacle -- a
“Nightmareliner,” as some headlines put it --- is far more
overheated than the plane’s bum batteries. So far, the 50 787s
delivered have experienced problems, including one fuel-line
leak, a crack in a cockpit window and a minor wiring flaw along
with the battery issue, that are hardly unprecedented for a
major new airliner.  Airlines that go first with a new model, whether for the
prestige or to leverage technological advances such as fuel
savings, often pay a price for the novelty as problems crop up
requiring a fix that takes the plane out of service, usually for
only a week or two.  In 2007, shortly after Boeing’s main competitor,  Airbus
SAS (EAD) , introduced the mammoth double-decker A380 into passenger
service, the fleet was beset with minor problems, including wing
cracks and improper cabin wiring. An engine blew apart on a
Qantas Airways Ltd. A380 shortly after takeoff; no one was
injured, and Airbus made modifications.  In 1997, after Cathay Pacific Ltd. launched a new version
of the smaller Airbus A330, a gearbox malfunction started
causing engines to shut down in flight; the airline’s entire
fleet was grounded for almost two weeks.  The point is, problems with a new airliner are a matter of
degree and, of course, of redundancy and safeguards. A battery
fire aboard a Dreamliner is unacceptable. But that does not mean
an incident would be catastrophic: The Dreamliner is designed to
survive such a fire, by containing it to a specific area and
venting the smoke outside while the cabin air-pressure system
protects passengers and crew.  By this measure, the Dreamliner’s woes are within reason.
Regulators have done the right thing by grounding the fleet.
Boeing and its battery supplier need to take steps to assure the
public that these batteries are safe.  Probable Success  The Dreamliner project could still turn into a fiasco or,
God forbid, a disaster, if more problems crop up or compound.
But the strong odds remain that the jetliner will be what Boeing
intends it to be: a triumph, a next-generation, fuel-efficient,
ultracomfortable airliner that passengers will seek out, not
seek to avoid.  With the tragic  Comet , hubris prevented a more rational
investigation of its deadly flaw. U.K. aviation authorities
variously pointed to freak weather, sabotage and pilot error as
possible reasons for Comet crashes; anything to spare blaming
the plane itself. It wasn’t until the third catastrophic midair
explosion that the first-generation Comets were taken out of
service for good and an industrial detective job of epic scope
revealed the true culprit: metal fatigue.  In the early 1950s, a plane like the  Comet  could be allowed
to fly again even after the cause of its first crash remained
officially undetermined. That wouldn’t happen today. Nor is it
imaginable that any aircraft builder now would be as bold or as
brazen as John Moore-Brabazon, who led the development of
Britain’s postwar aviation industry, was in defending the Comet
before a U.K. board of inquiry.  “Of course we gave hostages to fate,”  Moore-Brabazon  said.
“But I cannot believe that this Court, or our country, will
censure us because we have ventured. You would not have the
aeronautical people in this country trail behind the world in
craven fear lest they be censured in such a Court as this for
trying to lead the world. Everything within the realm of human
knowledge and wisdom was put into this machine.”  The recklessly beautiful and futuristic Comet never ruled
the skies. Instead, a U.S. manufacturer, previously an also-ran
in the civilian airliner field with less than 1 percent of the
market share in 1950, found an opening -- and Boeing’s 707 “Jet
Stratoliner” became the iconic airliner of the new Jet Age.  ( Sam Howe Verhovek  is the author of “Jet Age: The Comet,
the 707, and the Race to Shrink the World.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Sam Howe Verhovek at  smhverhovek@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  