-- Boeing Halts Dreamliner Deliveries Pending FAA Approval
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-01-19T00:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/boeing-halts-dreamliner-deliveries-pending-faa-approval.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  will suspend deliveries
of its grounded 787 Dreamliner while working to meet a U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration directive to ensure that the
plane’s lithium-ion batteries are safe.  “Production of 787s continues,”  Marc Birtel , a Boeing
spokesman, said today in an interview. “We will not deliver
787s until the FAA approves a means of compliance with their
recent airworthiness directive concerning batteries and the
approved approach has been implemented.”  Halting handovers of Boeing’s most advanced model ever adds
to fallout from the Jan. 16 FAA order that 787s in the U.S. be
taken out of service due to “potential battery fire risk,” a
move followed by regulators worldwide. With Dreamliners barred
from flying, airlines can’t get new ones at Boeing’s Washington
state and South Carolina factories.  Boeing isn’t changing the 787’s production rate, now at
five planes a month, Birtel said. Chicago-based Boeing is
working to double monthly output in 2013 to help shrink a
backlog of about 800 unfilled orders that swelled during seven
delays to the jet’s debut, which finally came in late 2011.  Deliveries are important because that’s when planemakers
get large bulk payments on the purchase price of a jet. While
the 787’s list price starts at about $207 million, airlines
typically buy at discount.  One Delivery  Only one Dreamliner has been handed over this year, on Jan.
3, said  Lori Gunter , a spokeswoman. That plane marked the 50th
delivery. Boeing said yesterday that it was in talks with the
FAA on plans for deliveries and production test flights while
work continues to assure the safety of the battery packs.  Boeing fell 0.3 percent to $75.04 at the  New York  close.
 The shares  have risen 2.4 percent in the past year.  The FAA and its counterparts abroad acted after a fire on a
 Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  787 last week in  Boston  and an emergency
landing by an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  plane on a domestic flight
in  Japan  this week because of a battery-fault warning.  “We have high confidence in the safety of the 787 and
stand squarely behind its integrity,” Chief Executive Officer
Jim McNerney said today in a message to employees. “We are
working around the clock to support the FAA, our customers, and
others in the investigations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  