-- BOJ Deposit Rate Cut Sign in Cash Operation Flops: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-01-18T04:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/boj-deposit-rate-cut-sign-in-cash-operation-flops-japan-credit.html
The failure of seven funding
operations by the  Bank of Japan (8301)  is signaling expectations that
policy makers will cut deposit rates.  Bids for the BOJ’s offering of six-month 0.1 percent loans
dropped to a record yesterday, falling short of the bank’s
target a day after the yield on Japan’s two-year note slid to
0.08 percent, a level unseen since July 2005. The 0.1 percent
savings rate compares with 0.25 percent on excess reserves in
the U.S. and zero in the euro region.  Japanese banks have watched the deposit rate when setting
lending rates after the BOJ reduced the amount it  charges  for
overnight funds to almost zero in 2010. At least two board
members have highlighted the benefits of lowering the savings
benchmark as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe calls for “bold monetary
policy” to defeat deflation and drive the yen lower. The
central bank will start a two-day policy meeting on Jan. 21.  “Considering the current outlook for rates, banks have no
incentive to borrow,”  Takafumi Yamawaki , Tokyo-based chief
rates strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., one of the 24 primary
dealers obliged to bid at Japan’s debt sales, said on Jan. 16.
“Six-month loans at 0.1 percent will become relatively
expensive if the deposit rate is cut.”  Banks receive 0.1 percent interest on deposits held by the
BOJ that exceed legally required balances. The central bank
 introduced  the measure after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008 that triggered a global financial crisis.  Reluctant BOJ  Unlike the BOJ, the  Federal Reserve  pays interest on both
required and excess reserves. The European Central Bank cut the
deposit rate on July 5 by 25 basis points to zero. That helped
trigger a drop in the euro to a two-year low, while  Germany ’s
two-year note yields slid to a record negative 0.097 percent.  The BOJ’s increased cash infusions in the past two years
have failed to end more than a decade of deflation as it remains
reluctant to carry out more-radical policy options. Abe is
counting on a weaker yen to bolster an economy that’s estimated
to have shrunk for a third consecutive quarter through Dec. 31.  At the BOJ’s last gathering in December, the board voted
down a proposal by Koji Ishida to scrap the interest on excess
reserves held in custody. Fellow board member Sayuri Shirai said
in a speech last week that “ positive aspects ” of cutting it
include currency depreciation.  Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said today that the BOJ
and the government will issue a joint statement at the central
bank’s meeting next week. BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said he
exchanged opinions at a meeting in Tokyo with Aso and Economy
Minister Akira Amari.  Goldman Uridashi  Elsewhere in domestic credit markets, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. plans to price seven-year yen uridashi bonds on Jan. 24,
the company said in a filing yesterday to Japan’s Finance
Ministry. Uridashi notes are securities issued overseas and sold
to individual investors in Japan.  Hokkaido Electric Power Co. hired banks for an offering of
three-year debt this month, according to a statement from  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411) , which is managing the deal with Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  Five-year credit-default swaps that insure Japan’s
sovereign debt climbed to 88.3 basis points yesterday, the
highest since Aug. 1, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. An increase in the contracts
signals worsening perceptions of creditworthiness, while a
decrease suggests the opposite.  Falling Yen  The yen has tumbled 13 percent over the past three months,
making it the worst performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. It
fell 0.2 percent to 90.05 per dollar at 1:41 p.m. in  Tokyo  after
touching 90.21 earlier, the weakest since June 23, 2010.  A weaker yen typically makes Japanese-made products more
competitive overseas, helping exporters stay competitive against
rivals such as Samsung Electronics Co.  South Korea’s won strengthened 23 percent against the yen
last year, the most on record going back to 1982. Bank of Korea
Governor Kim Choong Soo said on Jan. 14 that the nation needs an
“active” response in case exchange-rate volatility rises.  Financial companies in Japan asked for 12 billion yen ($133
million) of six-month loans from the BOJ yesterday, the lowest
on record and below the 800 billion yen available. Bids for
three-month credit also fell short of the central bank’s offer.
The lending is part of BOJ policy measures introduced in October
2010 in an effort to support the economy.  Lingering Deflation  The program also includes a 76 trillion-yen fund that buys
assets, including government bonds maturing in three years or
less. While the so-called asset-purchase fund has grown from 5
trillion yen since its inception,  consumer prices  excluding
fresh food fell every month at an average of 0.2 percent.  “What the market is expecting is a cut in the deposit rate
as well as purchases of longer-maturity debt,” said Tanji Noriatsu, a Tokyo-based strategist for fixed income at Barclays
Plc, also a primary dealer. Even so, “a lower deposit rate will
have almost no impact over the economy.”  The yield on  Japan ’s benchmark 10-year note fell to as low
as 0.73 percent yesterday, 4 1/2 basis points from the least in
nine years reached Dec. 6. It traded at 0.745 percent today. The
five-year  yield  was at 0.15 percent, a 1/2 basis point, or 0.005
percentage point, from matching a record low. The two-year rate
touched 0.07 percent, the lowest since July 2005.  Inflation Target  The BOJ’s Shirakawa and his fellow board members will adopt
the 2 percent inflation target advocated by Abe, doubling its
existing goal of 1 percent, according to people familiar with
central bank officials’ discussions. Shirakawa is due to step
down on April 8, while his two deputies’ terms end on March 19.  The Ministry of Finance sold three-month bills at an
 average yield  of 0.093 percent yesterday, the lowest since
September 2011. Investors bid 14.76 times the amount on offer,
the lowest so-called  bid-to-cover  ratio since April.  “The BOJ is facing policy deadlock so it has to have a
deposit-rate cut as an option,” said Satoshi Yamada, Tokyo-
based manager of fixed-income trading at Okasan Asset Management
Co., which manages the equivalent of $10 billion. “The fear
that yields on short-dated notes may decline further has
prompted investors to shift to longer-term securities. I expect
the 10-year yield to stabilize around the 0.7 percent level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  