-- Brazil’s IPO Drought Set to End as Linx Plans Offering
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-02-08T17:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/brazil-s-six-month-ipo-drought-set-to-end-as-linx-plans-sale-1-.html
(Corrects headline, first and third paragraphs in story
published on Jan. 18 to say the last Brazil IPO was in April.)  Brazilian technology company Linx SA
and its investors plan to sell shares worth as much as 459
million reais ($225 million) next month, in an initial public
offering that would be the country’s first in nine months.  Linx, which is based in Sao Paulo and provides
communications technology and makes management software for
retailers, said today in a  prospectus  on its website that the
shares will be priced on Feb. 6, and trading will start Feb. 8.
The company will issue as many as 11.05 million new voting
shares, while investors including Brazil’s development bank
BNDES will sell as many as 5.95 million voting shares, according
to the prospectus.  The IPO would be the first on the country’s BM&FBovespa
exchange since furniture-maker Unicasa Industria de Moveis SA
raised 425.6 million reais in a share sale in April. Exchange
Chief Executive Officer  Edemir Pinto  has said he expects 2013 to
bring an increase from the three IPOs held in 2012. There were
27 offerings in the three previous years.  “There’s definitely opportunities for more companies to
access capital markets in Brazil,” Audrey Kaplan, who helps
manage the $540 million Federated InterContinental Fund, said in
a phone interview from New York. Brazil has a small number of
public companies for an economy of its size, she said.  Postponed Offerings  Six Brazilian companies withdrew or postponed IPOs last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as Latin America’s
largest economy struggled to boost its recovery. Gross domestic
product probably expanded 1 percent in 2012, about half the pace
of the U.S. and Japan, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Linx said in the prospectus it expects the shares to price
in a range of 23 reais to 27 reais. The country had announced
plans for the IPO in a regulatory filing in December.  Credit Suisse Group AG ,  Morgan Stanley ,  Banco BTG Pactual
SA  and Banco Itau BBA are underwriting the share sale. The stock
will be listed in Bovespa’s Novo Mercado section, in which only
voting shares may trade and at least 25 percent of a company’s
stock must be available for trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  