-- Brent Pipeline Resumes Flows; Nigeria Bonny Crude Price Stable
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-01-18T17:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/brent-pipeline-resumes-flows-nigeria-bonny-crude-price-stable.html
The Brent pipeline system is pumping
oil from all  North Sea  platforms except Cormorant Alpha, the
operating company said. There were no bids or offers for North
Sea or Russian Urals crudes.  Nigeria left its official selling price for benchmark Bonny
Light and Qua Iboe crudes unchanged for February at the highest
level in nine months, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. said
in an e-mailed statement.  North Sea  There were no bids or offers for North Sea crude, a
Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the Platts
pricing window showed.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days dropped 24 cents to 40 cents a barrel more than
Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brent for March settlement traded at $110.86 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $110.30 in the previous session. The April
contract was at $109.94, a discount of 92 cents to March.  The Brent pipeline, which normally carries about 10 percent
of the U.K.’s production, resumed partial pumping yesterday.
More crude is now flowing into it because most of the fields
have resumed activity, an official at  Abu Dhabi National Energy
Co. (TAQA)  PJSC, known as Taqa, said today by phone from Aberdeen,
 Scotland . The official declined to say what the current flow
rate is.  The pipeline normally handles 90,000 barrels a day,
including 10,000 barrels a day from the Cormorant field itself,
which is still shut. Taqa detected an oil leak in a leg of the
Cormorant Alpha platform, leading to its shutdown on Jan. 14.  The platforms that resumed are Dunlin, Thistle, Northern
Producer, Murchison, North Alwyn, Tern, Eider and North
Cormorant, the Taqa official said.  A Brent cargo for loading in January was delayed after
production disruptions, two people with knowledge of the loading
program said.  Brent lot B0105 will now load on Jan. 25 to Jan. 27, four
days later than planned, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  Total SA, Europe’s third-largest oil company, booked a
tanker to haul North Sea Forties crude to  South Korea , boosting
shipments for this year to 6 million barrels, according to a
shipbroker report.  The supertanker Mesdar is set to load 280,000 metric tons
of the grade from Feb. 5 to Feb. 10 at Hound Point in the U.K.
at a cost of $5.6 million, according to Athens-based Optima
Shipbrokers Ltd. CSSA Chartering and Shipping Services SA,
Total’s shipping unit, booked the very large crude carrier, the
report showed. Hound Point is the loading terminal for Forties.  Mediterranean/Urals  There were no bids or offers for Russian Urals for a
seventh session, according to the Platts survey.  The Urals differential to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
narrowed 10 cents to minus 33 cents a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the least since Dec. 21. In
northwest  Europe , the  discount  widened to $1.17 from $1.13
yesterday, the data showed.  Novorossiysk,  Russia ’s largest Black Sea port, may remain
shut until Jan. 21 because of storms, according to OAO
Transneft. Four tankers have been unable to load crude since the
storms began on Jan. 15, Igor Dyomin, a spokesman for the
pipeline operator, said today by phone from Moscow.  TNK-BP reissued a tender to sell a cargo of Russian Urals
crude oil for loading next month from Novorossiysk, according to
two traders with knowledge of the matter.  The 140,000 ton shipment is for loading Feb. 7 to Feb. 8,
two days later than yesterday’s offer, the people said, asking
not to be identified because the information is confidential.
The tender closes today.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend fell 2 cents to $2.15 a
barrel more than Dated Brent, Bloomberg data show.  The official selling prices for both Bonny Light and Qua
Iboe were left unchanged for February at $2.40 a barrel more
than Dated Brent, according to NNPC. That’s the biggest premium
since May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in  London  at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  