-- Brocade CEO Carney Says Not Planning Sale of the Company
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-01-18T21:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/brocade-ceo-carney-says-not-planning-sale-of-the-company.html
Brocade Communications Systems
Inc. (BRCD) ’s newly appointed Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Carney said
there are no plans to sell the networking-equipment maker, which
had been seeking a buyer under his predecessor.  While Brocade is “best as a standalone player” and not a
“short-term proposition,” fiduciary responsibility would
require him to look at any “stupid money” offers, Carney said
in an interview. Carney, who has experience selling companies,
was named on Jan. 14, replacing Mike Klayko.  Most recently, Carney was CEO of Xsigo Systems Inc., which
was bought by  Oracle Corp.. (ORCL)  Previously, he led Micromuse Inc.,
which was sold to  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in 2006.
Brocade had enlisted technology-investment banker Frank Quattrone to seek buyers, a person familiar with the matter said
in July, pitching its products as a way for companies such as
Dell Inc. and Oracle to expand in cloud-based computing.  “This is not a short-term proposition,” Carney said of
his new position. “If someone shows up with stupid money, I
have to listen to it. But my history is I’m not a quick-turn
guy. I’ve never done that.”  Carney pointed out that he was at Xsigo for five years and
Micromuse for three before the sales occurred.  While Brocade’s strong cash flow and prominent market
position have made the company an attractive takeover candidate,
it has failed to find a buyer for the past three years. When
Brocade said last August that Klayko, CEO since 2005, would
resign, the move was seen as a step by the board to expedite a
sale of the company.  San Jose, California-based Brocade was unchanged at $5.64
at the close in New York, and earlier fell as low as $5.58
following the publication of Carney’s interview. The shares
advanced 2.7 percent during 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  