-- BTG Predicts 40% Merger Surge This Year: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-01-18T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/btg-predicts-40-merger-surge-this-year-corporate-brazil.html
Banco BTG Pactual SA, the adviser on
more  Brazil  deals last year than any other firm, predicts
mergers will surge in 2013 as the economy rebounds and concern
eases that antitrust rules will block transactions.  “We see an increase of up to 40 percent in takeovers,”
Marco Goncalves, head of mergers and acquisitions at the Sao
Paulo-based bank, said in an interview. “The pipeline now is
the biggest I’ve had since I started at BTG in the beginning of
2009.” He forecast that infrastructure, retail and electric
power industries will see the most activity.  Economic growth in Brazil, the world’s largest emerging
market after  China , will probably jump to 3.2 percent this year
after an increase of less than 1 percent in 2012, according to a
central bank survey of economists released this week. Companies
announced 668 mergers in Brazil last year, down 9 percent from
2011, after a new law required buyers to seek antitrust approval
before closing transactions.  Concern that the rule will stymie new business is waning,
Goncalves said. “The new law was tested in the second half of
last year and the process adopted by the antitrust authority is
very quick,” he said in an interview at the bank’s  Sao Paulo 
headquarters.  The dollar amount of merger transactions declined 37
percent in 2012 to $63.3 billion, the lowest since 2007, while
deals announced worldwide fell 13 percent to $2.32 trillion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Quicker Approvals  Since the new rules took effect, the authority approved 60
deals with no competitive concerns in an average of 20 days, and
shortened the time for analyzing more complicated takeovers to
an average of 50 days, down from 150 before the changes, Carlos Ragazzo, general superintendent of the authority known as Cade,
said in an interview on Nov. 7.  “Many people didn’t believe we would make this work,”
Ragazzo, who has authority to approve takeovers that don’t
require further antitrust review, said in the interview. “There
was a lot of tension between the law being signed and going into
effect. And I think the results were much better than
expected.”  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  ranked first by dollar value for
Brazilian mergers in 2012, with $31.5 billion, the data show.
The Zurich-based bank worked on the five biggest deals in Brazil
last year, including Itau Unibanco Holding SA’s 11.8 billion
real ($5.79 billion) takeover of credit-card processor Redecard
SA and cement maker Camargo Correa SA’s 4.07 billion euro ($5.44
billion) acquisition of Cimpor Cimentos de Portugal SGPS SA.  Larger Deals  “Nowadays we have a lot of multibillion-dollar M&A deals
in Brazil,” Hans Lin, co-head of investment banking at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in Brazil, said in an interview in Sao
Paulo. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank took the seventh
position in the 2012 ranking by value of deals.  “Companies are flush with cash and business confidence
will pick up this year amid stronger economic growth of about
3.5 percent,” Lin said, adding that fees for banks that advise
on acquisition transactions may rise more than 20 percent this
year from 2012.  Fees for M&A activity in Brazil grew 2 percent to $416.61
million last year, according to Dealogic, the London-based
information and consulting service. The takeover area was
responsible for 45 percent of the total revenue for  investment
banking  in the country in 2012. The total, which also includes
syndicated loans, bonds and equity underwriting, fell 2 percent
from the year earlier to $915.9 million.  Credit Suisse  BTG ranked first in M&A fees with $106 million, an increase
from about $67 million in 2011, when the bank also ranked first.
Credit Suisse was No. 2 by takeover fees in 2012, with $69
million, up from $57 million, Dealogic said.  “This year will be as good as last year,” said Allan
Libman, head of investment banking at Credit Suisse Brazil,
adding that M&A activity doesn’t depend only on current economic
growth because most companies try to anticipate investments
before growth picks up. “Today, companies don’t have the luxury
of avoiding Brazilian markets.”  Credit Suisse, which broadened its presence in the local
market after acquiring Banco de Investimentos Garantia SA in
1998, now has a team of 35 investment bankers, one of the
biggest in Brazil, Libman said. The lender is the only foreign
bank ranked among the top five by the number of deals last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BR Partners  Weak economic growth in Brazil may limit takeover activity
growth to 10 percent or less, said Ricardo Lacerda, chief
executive officer of BR Partners, the Brazilian investment bank
founded by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executives.  “We have many doubts about the Brazilian performance and
because of that the volume of acquisition deals will be up just
a bit,” he said in a telephone interview.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., which ranked ninth last year from
12th in 2011, handled the $400 million acquisition of Fogo de
Chao Churrascaria Holding, the restaurant chain, by private-
equity fund Thomas H Lee Partners LP. The New York-based lender
also advised on the $4.9 billion takeover of Amil Participacoes
SA by UnitedHealth Group Inc., the No. 1 U.S. health insurer.  “M&A decisions are long-term ones, and when you have a
year like last year with a lot of noise in the markets and
doubts about the economic future, then companies tend to
hesitate,” said Patricia Moraes, co-head of investment banking
at JPMorgan in Brazil. Enthusiasm for takeovers “all over the
world will rise a lot this year as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis recedes and the slowdown in China eases,” Moraes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  