-- Buffett’s Railroad Boosts Capital Plan to $4.1 Billion
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/buffett-s-railroad-boosts-capital-plan-to-4-1-billion.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  plans to increase  capital spending  at its railroad to about
$4.1 billion this year, as the company prepares to handle rising
oil shipments and expands intermodal terminal capacity.  The 2013 proposal includes $2.3 billion on the core rail
network and about $1 billion on locomotive, freight car and
equipment purchases, BNSF Railway Co. said in a statement
yesterday. The Fort Worth, Texas-based unit is also spending
about $250 million on a U.S. rail-safety mandate and $550
million for terminal, line and intermodal expansion and
efficiency projects.  The expansion plans are designed in part to accommodate
industrial product shipments tied to burgeoning oil production
in the Bakken shale formation, concentrated in North Dakota.
Intermodal shipments, which can move by sea, rail and highway,
are also a focus for BNSF as railroads seek to haul more
 consumer goods .  “They are the primary player in the Bakken because of
their lucky circumstance of having a railroad to North Dakota,”
 Tony Hatch , an independent rail analyst in New York, said in a
telephone interview. With intermodal shipments, he said, “it’s
quite encouraging to see them feel they have the opportunity to
spend. To me, that says the intermodal story is hardly over.”  Chief Executive Officer  Matt Rose  said earlier this month
that the railroad will spend “a couple hundred million
dollars” on capital improvements to haul more petroleum to
refineries from the Bakken formation, and that he expects BNSF
to boost crude-oil shipments 40 percent this year.  “This record capital plan continues our long-term focus on
ensuring our network is prepared for the growing U.S. demand for
freight rail,” Rose said in the statement. “We are focused on
investing to meet our customers’ expectations and to expand
capacity where growth is occurring.”  BNSF said it spent $3.6 billion on capital investments last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  