-- California Gasoline Weakens After Valero, Tesoro Restart Units
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-01-18T23:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/california-gasoline-premiums-narrow-on-refinery-unit-startups.html
Spot gasoline in Los Angeles slid
against futures for the fourth straight day after  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)  started two units at its refinery in Southern  California .  Valero’s 78,000-barrel-a-day Wilmington plant near Los
Angeles returned to service the fluid catalytic cracker and the
alkylation unit, which were shut Dec. 21 to repair a leak, Bill Day, a Valero spokesman at the company’s headquarters in San
Antonio, said by e-mail today.  Both units are increasing to “planned rates,” Day said.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles
weakened 6 cents to a discount of 5.5 cents a gallon against
futures traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 4:01 p.m.
East Coast time, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s the
steepest discount since Dec. 20.  Carbob in San Francisco weakened 7 cents to 27.5 cents a
gallon below futures, the lowest since Dec. 17.  Tesoro’s 170,000-barrel-a-day Golden Eagle  refinery  near
San Francisco returned a hydrocracker after finishing repairs, a
person with direct knowledge of operations at the plant said
yesterday. The plant also started the No. 3 hydrotreater and
reformer, which were unexpectedly shut over the weekend, said
the person who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  The refinery reported a “major unit startup” yesterday, a
notice to Contra Costa County regulators shows.  El Segundo  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s 279,000-barrel-a-day El Segundo plant,
California’s largest refinery, Tesoro’s Los Angeles plant and  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s Carson refinery are all performing maintenance turnarounds
on process units.  The  3-2-1 refinery crack spread  between Alaskan North Slope
crude, Carbob in Los Angeles and California-grade diesel in Los
Angeles, has shrunk to almost a sixth of a record $60.239 a
barrel reached on Oct. 4. The crack, a measure of refining
profitability, narrowed 28 cents to $10.512 a barrel, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Carbob in San Francisco widened its  discount  to Los Angeles
1 cent to 22 cents a gallon. It weakened to a record 32.5 cents
a gallon below Los Angeles on Jan. 14.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles
strengthened 2.75 cents to a 7.25-cent premium to Nymex heating
oil futures. The discount for the same fuel in San Francisco was
unchanged at 2 cents a gallon.  In  Portland , low-sulfur diesel widened its discount 2 cent
to 9 cents a gallon, while conventional, 84-octane gasoline in
strengthened 1 cent to 20 cents a gallon below futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  