-- About 10 Britons Unaccounted for or at Risk in Algeria
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-01-18T18:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/cameron-says-fewer-than-30-britons-at-risk-after-algeria-attack.html
About 10 Britons are listed as
unaccounted for or at risk following the terrorist attack in
 Algeria , according to two government officials who declined to
be identified because the incident is still ongoing.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said earlier the number of
Britons in danger had been “significantly reduced” after
Algerian forces stormed the compound. He said the U.K. would
“do everything we can” to pursue those responsible for the
attack, which appeared to be “pre-planned” and “well
coordinated.”  “Last night the number of British citizens at risk was
less than 30,”  Cameron told lawmakers  in the House of Commons
in London today. “Thankfully we now know that number has been
quite significantly reduced.” In a statement at 6 p.m. London
time, his office said it was “not in a position” to comment on
the number of Britons involved.  A British plane is now on the ground in Algiers to bring
home U.K. civilians caught up in the attack. British diplomats
and Metropolitan Police officers who specialize in handling such
events and their aftermath have also arrived in the country, the
officials said.  Cameron spoke twice today to his Algerian counterpart,
Abdelmalek Sellal, and he told lawmakers that the military
operation, at a natural-gas complex operated by London-based  BP
Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  of  Norway  and Algeria’s Sonatrach, is
continuing.  Flee Attempt  “He said that the terrorists had tried to flee, that they
judged there to be an immediate threat to the lives of the
hostages and had felt obliged to respond,” Cameron said. “This
is a large and complex site and they are still pursuing
terrorists and possibly some of the hostages in other areas of
the site.”  The U.K. was not informed or consulted before Algerian
forces started their assault, Cameron said. Britain offered
assistance, including specialist hostage negotiators, he said.
His spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, told reporters these offers
of help were refused.  “We were disappointed not to be informed of the assault in
advance,” Cameron said. Gray later said that all four
conversations between Cameron and Sellal had been initiated in
 London . There was a further phone call between the two men this
evening, after which the government declined to give details.  ‘Imminent Threat’  “We should show understanding that the Algerian government
faces a huge threat from terrorists and they were facing a
situation where there was imminent threat to life,” Cameron
told lawmakers. “You can have the ultimate degree of planning
and still find that the events can go wrong. We should bear that
in mind.”  Britain will supply resources to help in the pursuit of the
terrorists and their backers, Cameron said.  “We will do everything we can to hunt the people down who
are responsible for this and other such terrorist outrages,” he
said.  The amount of “ungoverned space” in countries including
 Mali  and  Libya  helps terrorist groups bent on attacking western
interests, Cameron said.  “We know that there are real connections between Islamist
extremist militants in Algeria and those in Libya, we also know
that there are very real connections between those in Algeria
and those in Mali,” Cameron said. “They use whatever available
ungoverned space there is in order to plan, build and thrive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  