-- Canada November Employment Insurance Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-01-18T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/canada-november-employment-insurance-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s employment insurance report for Nov. released
by  Statistics Canada .  Following little change in October, the number of people
receiving regular Employment Insurance (EI) benefits in November
edged down 4,500 (-0.8%) to 528,000.  The number of beneficiaries decreased slightly in Nova
Scotia, British Columbia, Ontario and  Quebec . At the same time,
there were slight increases in Alberta, Saskatchewan and
Newfoundland and Labrador. There was virtually no change in the
other provinces.  Claims declined in November  To receive EI benefits, individuals must first submit a
claim. The number of claims provides an indication of the number
of people who could become beneficiaries.  Nationally, the number of initial and renewal claims fell
by 4,400 (-1.9%) to 226,700 in November.  There were declines in eight provinces, with the most
notable percentage decreases in Alberta (-6.7%),  Nova Scotia 
(-4.1%), Saskatchewan (-3.7%) and Ontario (-3.1%). At the same
time, the number of claims rose in Manitoba (+2.9%) and Quebec
(+1.4%).  Slight decrease in beneficiaries in four provinces  The number of people receiving regular benefits in November
fell slightly in four provinces.  In Nova Scotia, the number of beneficiaries declined 1.6%,
following small decreases in the two previous months.  The number of beneficiaries fell 1.2% in British Columbia,
the third consecutive monthly decline.  There were also fewer people receiving regular benefits in
Ontario (-1.1%) in November, following little change the month
before.  In Quebec, the number of beneficiaries decreased 1.0% in
November, offsetting an increase in October.  There were slightly more beneficiaries in three provinces
in November:  Alberta , Newfoundland and Labrador, and
Saskatchewan.  In Alberta, the number of people receiving benefits was up
1.5%, the fifth consecutive monthly increase. The number of
beneficiaries edged up 1.0% in Newfoundland and Labrador and in
Saskatchewan.  Note to readers  Employment Insurance (EI) regular benefits are available to
eligible individuals who lose their jobs and who are available
for and able to work, but can’t find a job. The change in the
number of regular beneficiaries reflects various situations,
including people becoming beneficiaries, people going back to
work, and people exhausting their regular benefits.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted unless
otherwise specified. For more information on seasonal adjustment,
see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010 -
X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  EI statistics are produced from administrative data sources
provided by Service  Canada  and Human Resources and Skills
Development Canada. These statistics may, from time to time, be
affected by changes to the Employment Insurance Act or
administrative procedures. Recent examples are the pilot project
entitled “Working While on Claim,” introduced on August 5, 2012,
and the regulation on search for suitable employment, that came
into effect January 6, 2013.  The number of regular beneficiaries and the number of
claims received for the current and previous month are subject
to revision.  The number of beneficiaries is a measure of all people who
received EI benefits from November 4 to 10. This period
coincides with the reference week of the Labour Force Survey
(LFS).  EI statistics indicate the number of people who received EI
benefits, and should not be confused with LFS data, which
provide information on the total number of unemployed people.  There is always a certain proportion of unemployed people
who do not qualify for benefits. Some unemployed people have not
contributed to the program because they have not worked in the
past 12 months or their employment is not insured. Other
unemployed people have contributed to the program but do not
meet the eligibility criteria, such as workers who left their
job voluntarily or those who did not accumulate enough hours of
work to receive benefits.  New content and historical revision on the way  Over the next few months, data on people who receive
regular EI benefits will be available for the first time by
occupation and detailed age group.  New seasonally adjusted data by sex, age, census
metropolitan area, census agglomeration and occupation will also
be available.  Seasonally adjusted series will be revised back to January
1997 to reflect the most recent seasonal factors. Geography
boundaries will be updated from the 2001 to the 2006 Standard
Geographical Classification, which mainly affects boundaries of
census metropolitan areas and census agglomerations.  In addition, the definition of regular beneficiaries will
be expanded to include those receiving regular benefits while
participating in employment benefit programs, such as training.
Furthermore, self-employed people receiving special benefits
will be included in the special benefits category.  All data will be available free of charge on CANSIM. 