-- Canadian Stocks Gain as China Growth Accelerates, RIM Advances
-- B y   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-01-18T22:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/canadian-stocks-gain-as-china-growth-accelerates-rim-advances.html
Canadian  stocks  rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index to its third weekly gain,
as Research In Motion Ltd. climbed and China’s growth
accelerated for the first time in two years.   RIM (RIM)  rallied 7 percent after a Jefferies & Co. analyst
upgraded the BlackBerry maker’s stock to buy. Harry Winston
Diamond Corp. rose 2.9 percent as Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts
said demand for diamonds may exceed supply.  Shoppers Drug Mart
Corp. (SC)  plunged 5.2 percent, the most since April 2010, as some
Canadian provinces said they will buy generic drugs in bulk.  The S&P/TSX increased 50.96 points, or 0.4 percent, to
12,725.69 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The benchmark equity gauge, up 1
percent this week, has climbed for the past three weeks, the
longest stretch in a year.  “Our fears of a hard landing in China hopefully have been
put to rest,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at
MacDougall MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages
about $4 billion. “The rate of growth is higher than the
previous quarter, so I think that’s pulling some money into the
Canadian market.‘‘  China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, up from a three-year low of
7.4 percent in the previous period, National Bureau of
Statistics data showed. Eight out of 10 groups in the benchmark
Canadian equity measure rose today.  Canadian factory sales advanced to a six-month high in
November and unfilled orders rose to the most in more than three
years on automobile and aircraft demand. Sales climbed 1.7
percent to C$49.9 billion ($50.4 billion),  Statistics Canada 
said today in Ottawa.  New Software  RIM climbed to its highest price in almost a year after
Jefferies analyst  Peter Misek  upgraded the stock to a buy,
citing the potential for its new software to offer corporate e-
mail on rival devices. RIM gained 7 percent to C$15.71,
advancing the most in the S&P/TSX.  Shoppers Drug Mart, the country’s largest pharmaceutical
chain, posted the biggest loss in the Canadian equity benchmark.
Every province except  Quebec  and three territories plan to buy
six generic drugs, which represent about 20 percent of publicly
funded spending on such medicines in Canada, in bulk to lower
prices, according to a government press release. It lost 5.2
percent to C$41.83.  Diamond Prices  Harry Winston  advanced 2.9 percent to C$14.76. Nomura rated
the diamond retailer and mining company a buy, and said prices
will stay near current levels in 2013, though exposure for the
long term is ‘‘worth investigating.’’ Demand will outstrip
supply from 2015, which should boost margins for the robust
producers, the analysts said.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , the copper producer in the
midst of a C$5.1 billion hostile bid for Inmet Mining Corp.,
added 1 percent to C$21.25. Copper futures for delivery in March
increased 0.5 percent to settle at $3.679 a pound in New York.  Bank of  Nova Scotia  rose 0.8 percent to C$57.86. Canada’s
third-largest bank said it can boost small loans in Mexico as
much as 20 percent in a push for business in  Latin America ,
where lending margins are double the Canadian average. A measure
of financial companies added 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Picker in  New York  at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  