-- Canadian Dollar Weakens Most in Six Month on China Data
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-19T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/canadian-dollar-falls-as-commodities-weaken.html
The Canadian dollar fell the most in
a month against its U.S. counterpart as selling pressure emerged
after signs of economic growth from the U.S. and  China  failed to
drive the currency above a key technical level.  The loonie, as Canada’s dollar is nicknamed, posted its
second straight weekly decline against the euro on speculation
the  European Central Bank  will allow the 17-nation currency to
appreciate. The Canadian dollar rallied earlier in the week
against the U.S. currency before falling the most in six months
yesterday after it failed to breach levels that have held since
October even as China’s economic growth exceeded forecasts. The
 Bank of Canada  is forecast to keep its benchmark interest rate
target unchanged when policy makers meet Jan. 23.  “This has been shaping up over the week,” said  Steve Butler , managing director of global banking and markets at Bank
of  Nova Scotia , by phone from Toronto. “The move just lost
momentum and with the foreign-exchange market, it’s quite
important, and we just saw that shake out overnight.”  The loonie fell 0.7 percent to 99.17 cents per U.S. dollar
this week in Toronto, the largest decline since the five days
ended Dec. 21. One loonie buys $1.0084.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for three-month options on the U.S.
dollar versus the loonie touched 5.95 percent yesterday, the
most since Dec. 27. Implied volatility signals the expected pace
of currency swings and is quoted and used by traders to set
option prices.  Futures traders  increased  their bets that the Canadian
dollar will gain against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
68,668 on Jan. 15, compared with net longs of 64,005 a week
earlier.  Options traders became more bearish on the Canadian dollar.
The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate, which
measures the premium charged for the right to buy the U.S.
dollar against the loonie versus contracts to sell, traded at
0.89 percentage point yesterday, up from 0.82 percentage point
the day before. It averaged 1.5 percentage points this year.  Economic Data  China’s economic growth exceeded forecasts, posting 7.9
percent growth in the fourth quarter from a year earlier,
compared with 7.8 percent forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Government reports on housing starts and unemployment
claims released Jan. 17 showing economic strength in the U.S.,
Canada’s biggest trading partner, failed to push the loonie
through 98.26 cents per U.S. dollar that has become a key level
of resistance since October,  George Davis , chief technical
analyst for fixed income and currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada, wrote in a note to clients.  “If you flirt with an important technical level and you
keep failing to break it, what tends to happen is you need that
correction, you need it to pull back before it gathers momentum
for another charge at it,” said David Doyle, a strategist at
Macquarie Capital Markets, by phone from Toronto.  Bond Trade  The country’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose, with yields
falling two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.92
percent. The 2.75 percent security due in June 2022 added 18
cents to C$107.10.  The Bank of  Canada  will announce additional details about a
Jan. 30 10-year note sale on Jan. 24  The loonie fell against the euro on speculation the ECB
would allow the currency to appreciate after ECB policy maker
Ewald Nowotny said the euro exchange rate “is not a major
concern” on Jan. 16. The euro rose after  Spain ’s borrowing
costs declined in a bond auction January 17, easing concerns the
country will default on its loans and be forced out of the
single currency.  The euro gained 0.5 percent against the Canadian dollar
this week to C$1.3210 per euro, and the yen fell 0.4 percent in
the week to 90.85 yen per loonie.  The Bank of Canada has kept its policy interest rate at 1
percent since September 2010, the longest pause since the 1950s,
and has said since April that borrowing costs may rise.  Trading in overnight index swaps show a 98.2 percent chance
of the Bank of Canada won’t raise  interest rates  at its Jan. 23
meeting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The chance of
an increase reaches 25 percent by the May 29 meeting, the data
show.  The loonie has fallen 1.6 percent during the past six
months versus nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has gained 5.5 percent
while the greenback has dropped 3.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  