-- Carbon Traders Stung by Rout Try Again in China: Energy Markets
-- B y   M i k e   A n d e r s o n   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2013-01-18T15:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/carbon-traders-stung-by-rout-try-again-in-china-energy-markets.html
Carbon traders are backing  China  to
revive a global emissions market that lost 34 billion euros ($45
billion) last year as it shrank for the first time in history.  Investors from Climate Change Capital in  London  to Climate
Bridge Ltd. in  Melbourne  said this month they are seeking
involvement in what may become the world’s largest emissions
market. Beijing’s worst-recorded air pollution has renewed
pressure on the government, which aims to cut carbon dioxide
emissions by as much as 45 percent before 2020.  Falling European Union and United Nations prices shrank the
value of  carbon emissions  traded around the world by 36 percent
to 61 billion euros last year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said
Jan. 3. Seven exchanges are scheduled to start pilot programs
this year in China, the world’s most polluted country,
establishing the biggest cap-and-trade program outside the EU.  “Bad air quality will be putting a lot of pressure on the
government to protect the environment,” said Qian Guoqiang, a
former Chinese climate negotiator and now strategy director at
SinoCarbon Innovation & Investment Co., a carbon consultant in
Beijing. “China is very willing but not fully prepared to make
carbon trading work because it is such a complex system.”  Foreign Expertise  Most of China’s pilot programs will tap foreign trading
expertise by relaxing rules that would ban their participation,
said Qian, whose company counts  Alstom SA (ALO) , the French power-
equipment maker, among its clients. Foreign investors may be
especially welcome in the trade of credits known as offsets,
which China envisions as a successor to the UN’s Clean
Development Mechanism, said Milo Sjardin, the Singapore-based
head of Asia-Pacific analysis for Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  From windfarms in  Inner Mongolia  to hydropower plants in
Yunnan, China has almost half of the 4,200 projects registered
worldwide supplying offsets in the UN system, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The offsets are so named because they
reduce a polluter’s responsibility for undertaking more costly
clean-ups of its own operations.  Developers have produced more than 1 billion more offsets
than emitters will need before 2020, according to Sjardin,
driving prices to record lows. Certified Emission Reductions, or
CERs, in the UN’s CDM program, created by the 1997  Kyoto
Protocol , have dropped 92 percent from a year ago, trading today
at an all-time low of 31 euro cents on the ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange in London.  Partial Replacement  For investors, the benefit of a Chinese offset market is a
new outlet for projects that are no longer viable under the CDM.
For China, the pilots set up an alternative way to fund
emission-reduction projects outside the seven regions with
limits on  greenhouse gases .  “It will partially replace the CDM,” Qian said.  The glut of UN credits has grown as fresh sources of demand
failed to materialize. While  Australia  joined  New Zealand  and
the EU last year among offset buyers, new markets in  South Korea 
and  California  ruled out UN credits at least through 2020.
Russia, Japan and  Canada  dropped out of the agreement at last
year’s climate summit in Doha to extend their commitments to the
Kyoto Protocol.  A surplus of emission permits has also driven EU prices to
a record low of 5.05 euros a ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European Commission is considering a plan to delay
additional permits in coming years and has clamped down on
offsets. Starting this year, Europe won’t acknowledge UN credits
awarded for removing some industrial gases linked to  climate
change . Europe is also banning offsets from projects registered
after 2012 in all but the least developed countries, which no
longer include China.  ‘Effectively Dead’  The value of global carbon trading tumbled last year from
95 billion euros in 2011, New Energy Finance said. While it
estimates the market will rebound to 80 billion euros this year,
the price of UN offsets through 2015 will remain in a range of
15 cents to 50 cents a metric ton, Sjardin said.  “The CDM as a source of new emission-reduction projects in
the developing world has effectively been dead for 12 months
now, with the very low CER price making it almost impossible to
justify developing a new CDM project,” said Alex Wyatt, chief
executive officer for Climate Bridge, which started seven years
ago in  Shanghai . “China is by far the most interesting market
in the world.”  China is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases. The  World
Bank  estimates it has 16 of the world’s 20 most-polluted cities.
Beijing, home to more than 20 million people, began to release
real-time  air quality  data measuring pollutants of less than 2.5
micrometers in diameter in September, the official Xinhua News
agency said Dec. 28.  Restricted Access  China limits outside involvement in most of its securities
and commodity markets, fueling speculation that the National
Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, will restrict
foreign participation in carbon trading.  At least three of China’s seven pilots have asked to allow
traders, including foreigners, to buy and sell permits alongside
newly regulated emitters, according to four officials helping to
manage the projects. They need overseas help because China lacks
trading experience, said the officials, asking not to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  “China already has experience with the CDM and the carbon
market in general, so there is nothing stopping a Chinese
investment bank hiring knowledgeable people to trade carbon,”
said Christian Ellerman, the Beijing-based representative for
Ecofys, an energy consultant based in Utrecht, the Netherlands.
“However, it’s not clear yet what degree of involvement that
foreign brokers will be allowed in this market. They may be
allowed only in some areas and with conditions.”  Trading Guidelines  The NDRC, the main economic planner, will let the regions
set their own guidelines for trading, including roles for banks,
investors and foreign entities, Jiang Zhaoli, the director of
National Policy and Compliance at the NDRC’s Department of
Climate Change, said by phone from Beijing.  “Pilot regions encourage every aspect of investors,
including foreign investors, to participate in voluntary
emission trading, based on projects such as renewable energy and
carbon sequestration in forestry,” Jiang said. “Some regions
will only allow non-financial companies to trade mandatory
emissions, while Beijing encourages financial institutions.”  Largest Market  The Chinese capital of Beijing, as well as Shanghai, its
biggest city, and Guangdong, its largest manufacturing center,
are among the pilot programs. The other regions are Tianjin,
Chongqing, Shenzhen and Hubei. They are expected to regulate 800
million to 1 billion tons of emissions by 2015, Sjardin said.
That compares with 331 million tons in Australia, 439 million
tons in California and Quebec, and 2.18 billion tons in Europe.  The China Beijing Environment Exchange is among those to be
allowed by local authorities to trade voluntary emissions
credits, it said in a statement posted Jan. 15. China considers
voluntary credits to be the precursor to domestic offsets,
Sjardin said.  “By 2020, China will be the world’s largest marketplace
for emission reductions,”  James Cameron , co-chairman of Climate
Change Capital in London, said in an interview. “The CDM has
proven that it’s possible to cut greenhouse gases without
undermining  economic growth . These lessons have been learned by
the Chinese authorities.”  Record Pollution  China was issued more than 703 million metric tons of CERs,
according to UN data. They were worth about 7.4 billion euros,
based on the average CER price of 10.50 since 2008.  China shut dozens of factories and pulled government cars
off the roads after pollutants in Beijing reached records three
days this week. Levels of PM2.5, airborne particulates that pose
the largest health risks, rose to as much as 993 micrograms per
cubic meter on Jan. 12, compared with World Health Organization
 guidelines  of no more than 25.  “The government will be empowered to some extent to use
market mechanisms to solve the problem,” Qian said. “There is
little reluctance on the government side or on the investor
side. The main obstacle as China tries to start its pilot
program is its lack of expertise and trading infrastructure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Anderson  in Singapore at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  