-- McCafferty Says BOE Must Keep Open Mind on New Policy Tools
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-01-18T12:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/mccafferty-says-boe-must-keep-open-mind-on-new-policy-tools-1-.html
Bank of England  policy maker  Ian McCafferty  said officials must have an open mind about ways to
help the recovery, signaling he may support new measures if
needed to target specific weaknesses in the economy.  “We need to be open to considering other unorthodox means
to conduct monetary policy if they become necessary,”
McCafferty said in an interview with  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg
Television in  London  today. “To the extent that we monitor the
economy over the coming year, if it is not starting to improve
as we expect, then I think we would need to consider what are
the very specific problems that still exist in the economy and
to what extent can very targeted monetary policy measures deal
with very specific problems.”  McCafferty also said the Bank of  England ’s current mandate
is “relatively flexible” and that a nominal gross domestic
product target may only be of use as a temporary measure in
“unusual circumstances.” Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney ,
who is scheduled to take over from Governor  Mervyn King  at the
Bank of England later this year, has discussed the virtues of
targeting a nominal level of GDP as a policy tool.  “It’s of use in very unusual circumstances,” McCafferty
said. “I don’t think nominal GDP targeting is a better signal
than other methods, and I think there are distinct problems with
it, certainly in terms of measurement, because as we know GDP is
heavily revised even in the relatively short term, so it is
perhaps less precise.”  New Tools  The use of new policy tools may be a discussion for the
Monetary Policy Committee this year as the  economic recovery 
struggles to gather pace. The National Institute of Economic and
Social Research estimates that GDP fell 0.3 percent in the
fourth quarter and data today showed  retail sales  unexpectedly
fell in December as consumer weakness persisted into the key
Christmas trading season for British stores.  “We need to keep an open mind to see exactly where any
sticking points in the transmission mechanism occur and, if
necessary, design new policies in order to address those,”
McCafferty said.  Asked about the pound and whether he would favor a weaker
level to help exports, McCafferty said that competitive  currency
devaluation  “can be self-defeating because they can lead to
others trying to do the same, and of course ultimately exchange-
rate policy is a zero-sum game.”  Competitive Pound  Still, there “are questions on whether sterling is now at
a competitive level in terms of allowing that fundamental
rebalancing,” he said. McCafferty added that sharp movements by
currencies “in either direction can be destabilizing” and that
there were other factors affecting overseas sales.  “My impression is the lack of export performance is as
much due to lack of demand in our major markets and the fact
that our main exports are oriented at relatively slow-growing
markets at the moment,” he said.  In a speech after the interview, McCafferty said
uncertainty may limit the impact of  quantitative easing  on
demand and it’s “important to consider other forms of monetary
easing.”  Policy makers must look at other measures “and whether
they, in today’s specific circumstances, might be more effective
if needed,” he said in the speech.  The official, who joined the MPC in September from the
 Confederation of British Industry , also said the  inflation
outlook  is complicating policy makers’ decisions and price
growth may cool “only slowly” toward the BOE’s.  “There is a risk that, as the economy recovers, companies
will feel obliged to reward their staff for their forbearance of
recent years and compensate them for the recent squeeze in
 living standards  with more generous pay increases,” he said.
“What we can conclude is that the longer inflation remains
elevated, and hence the greater the cumulative squeeze on real
incomes, the greater the risk of such generosity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  