-- Chile Peso Rises as Central Bank Damps Intervention Speculation
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-01-18T13:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/chile-peso-rises-as-central-bank-damps-intervention-speculation.html
Chile’s peso appreciated after
central bankers left  interest rates  unchanged for a 12th
straight month and issued a statement that damped speculation
they would intervene to stem the currency’s gains.  The peso appreciated 0.2 percent to 471.25 per  U.S. dollar 
as of 10:26 a.m. in Santiago, on course for a 0.2 percent gain
on the week. Copper, the country’s biggest export, rose 0.4
percent to $3.6770 a pound today on the Comex in  New York . The
metal fell as low as $3.5995 a pound on Jan. 16.  The central bank said in its statement yesterday that the
peso had appreciated “slightly” against the dollar, language
that indicated policy makers are less concerned about the
currency’s advance than traders had anticipated, said Francisco Schneider, head of foreign currency wealth management at Celfin
Capital SA. The central bank held the benchmark lending rate at
5 percent at the meeting.  “Copper has recovered, there was good data from the U.S.
and foreign players are betting on the peso,” said Francisco Schneider, head of foreign currency wealth management at Celfin
Capital SA. “Also, the central bank communique was lackluster
and didn’t show much concern about the  exchange rate .”  The currency retreated from a three-month high of 469.1 on
Jan. 8 after Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said the government
was “concerned” about the gains, fueling speculation that the
central bank may start buying dollars to slow the advance.  Traders may try to drive the currency through 470 per
dollar following the central bank’s statement, Schneider said.  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
cut their bets against the currency by $6.5 billion in two
months to a 16-month of $2.7 billion on Jan. 15. They increased
bets against the peso by $209 million to $2.9 billion on Jan.
16, according to data published today by the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  