-- Chile Leaves Latin America’s Highest Real Borrowing Cost on Hold
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-01-18T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/chile-leaves-latin-america-s-highest-real-borrowing-cost-on-hold.html
Chilean policy makers kept borrowing
costs unchanged yesterday at almost double the real rate of any
other Latin American nation as President Sebastian Pinera said
the country was approaching full employment.  The monetary policy board, led by central bank President
Rodrigo Vergara, held the benchmark interest rate at 5 percent,
as forecast by all 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Chile’s
real interest rate of 3.5 percent compares with Colombia’s 1.81
percent and 1.41 percent in  Brazil , the region’s largest
economy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While steeper borrowing costs have helped drive Chile’s
inflation rate to the lowest in the region, it hasn’t damped
growth, which exceeded analyst estimates in each of the last
four months. Policy makers will be reluctant to change the
benchmark rate this quarter as a cut would threaten to stoke
inflation, while an increase may extend a rally in the peso,
undermining exports.  “There is limited space for an increase in the monetary
policy rate in the short term,” Sebastian Senzacqua, an
economist at BICE Inversiones, said by phone after yesterday’s
decision. “Rates could move toward the end of the year if the
external scenario improves significantly, our economy continues
to evolve favorably and inflation becomes more dynamic.”  Policy makers in a statement accompanying yesterday’s
decision highlighted “more favorable” financial conditions
abroad with lower fiscal risk in the U.S. and “more positive”
signs from  China .  ‘More Hawkish’  “The tone of the statement is slightly more hawkish than
the one released in December,” Italo Lombardi, an economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in New York, wrote in a note e-mailed to
investors yesterday. “Markets are pricing at least one 25
basis-point hike this year, and the curve could move further,
pricing additional hikes.”  The central bank statement also mentioned the exchange rate
for the second straight month, though it only said that the peso
had appreciated “slightly” against the dollar.  The Chilean currency, which has gained 5.4 percent against
the dollar in the past 12 months, gained 0.6 percent yesterday
to 472.25 per dollar. Policy makers last intervened in the
currency market in 2011 by buying dollars in the spot market
after the peso was trading at 465.75 to the dollar.  While Pinera told reporters yesterday the government is
concerned that a stronger peso is reducing margins for some
exporters, the exchange rate has helped slow inflation as the
price of imports fall.  Slowing Inflation  Inflation eased to 1.5 percent last month from 4.4 percent
at the end of 2011. Colombia has the second-lowest inflation
rate among major Latin American countries with 2.44 percent.  While Chilean inflation will double within a year, it won’t
exceed the central bank target range of 2 percent to 4 percent,
according to the median estimate of 56 traders and investors
surveyed by the central bank on Jan. 8.  “Inflation is completely under control,” Pinera, a
Harvard University-trained economist, said yesterday. “ Chile  is
one of the fastest-growing countries in the world and is
creating jobs. We’re nearing a situation of full employment.”  Chile is on track to post the fastest economic growth among
major South American economies for 2012 and 2013 behind  Peru ,
expanding an estimated 5.5 percent in 2012 and 4.8 percent this
year, according to the United Nations economic unit for Latin
America and the Caribbean.  Chile posted its quickest growth in 11 months in November,
expanding 1.3 percent from the month before on gains in the
service, mining and retail industries, according to central bank
data. Growth on an annual basis slowed to 5.5 percent from 6.7
percent in October.  Unemployment fell to 6.2 percent in the three months
through November, surprising economists who expected the rate to
remain unchanged at 6.6 percent, while wages grew an annual 6.5
percent that month, more than four times faster than inflation.
Retail sales surged 10.7 percent over the same period, out-
pacing the manufacturing index that grew 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  