-- China Home Prices Rise in Most Cities Since April 2011
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-18T08:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/china-december-home-prices-rise-in-most-cities-since-april-2011.html
China’s new  home prices  rose in
December in the most cities in 20 months, renewing concerns that
the government may issue new tightening measures.  Prices climbed in 54 of the 70 cities the government tracks,
compared with 53 in November, according to data from the
statistics bureau today. Prices fell in eight cities, the data
showed. In April 2011, prices increased in 56 cities.  China should “gradually” set up a property tax system
that covers real estate transactions and ownership, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said during a visit to the  finance ministry  this week.
The government will stick to home-purchase restrictions and will
“strictly” curb speculative housing demand in 2013, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported last month, citing the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  “If prices continue to rise and more rapidly in the next
few months, there is a danger that the government could be more
worried and start to tighten again,”  Wang Tao , chief China
economist at UBS AG, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Hong Kong today. “But it’s a little bit too early to say the
market is already overheating.”  The southern business hub of Guangzhou led gains in
December with a 1.2 percent increase from November, according to
today’s data. Among major cities, prices in Beijing and Shanghai
gained 0.8 percent and 0.6 percent respectively.  ‘Next Stage’  The Shanghai Stock Exchange Property Index, a measure of
developers’ shares on the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index,
rose 3.1 percent at close of trading. The gauge  gained  37
percent in the last 12 months,  outstripping  the 2.2 percent
advance in the benchmark.  China’s housing sales rose 11 percent to 5.4 trillion  yuan 
($869 billion) last year from 2011, while investment in homes,
office buildings, malls and other real estate gained 16 percent
to 7.2 trillion yuan, a separate government report today showed.  Home prices were unchanged in eight cities. They increased
in 40 cities from a year earlier, compared with 25 cities in
November, the home data showed.  “The recovery of the  property market  has already started
because of eased liquidity,” said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based
property analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “The government
should prevent prices from rising too fast in the next stage.”  Existing home prices rose 1 percent in Beijing last month
from November and increased 0.4 percent in Shanghai, today’s
data showed.  ‘Right Direction’  In its almost three-year effort to tighten the property
market, the government has raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements, imposed a property tax for the first time in
Shanghai and Chongqing, and enacted home-purchase restrictions
in about 40 cities.  The market “is moving into a right direction: Prices are
going back up and the government is still sitting on it, which I
think is just the right thing to do,”  Ronnie Chan , Chairman of
 Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) , the Hong Kong developer that’s
investing $8.5 billion on the mainland, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television this week.  Private data also has shown the housing market is
recovering. Home prices rose for a seventh month in December, by
0.23 percent, from a month earlier, according to  SouFun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest real estate website owner.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the country’s biggest developer by market
value, said last week that sales in 2012 rose to an industry
record high of 141.2 billion yuan.  Evergrande Real Estate Group
Ltd. (3333)  is targeting sales of 100 billion yuan this year, 25
percent higher than the target in 2012, it announced in a stock
exchange statement this week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  