-- China’s Income Gap Narrows to Level That Still Risks Unrest
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-18T07:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/china-income-gap-narrows-while-staying-at-levels-risking-unrest.html
China’s  income gap  narrowed for the
fourth straight year in 2012, the country’s statistics chief
said today, the first time in a more than a decade the
government has released the politically sensitive figure.  The nation’s  Gini coefficient  was 0.474 in 2012, down from
0.491 in 2008,  Ma Jiantang , head of the National Bureau of
Statistics, said at a briefing in Beijing to release last year’s
economic data. The figure has exceeded 0.4, the level used by
analysts as a gauge of the potential for social unrest, for the
past decade, the data show.  The new generation of Communist Party leaders who took
power in November have highlighted the need to narrow China’s
income gap and boost consumption as they wean the world’s
second-biggest economy off a dependence on investment. Reducing
inequality is one of the main challenges facing the nation, the
World Bank said in a February 2012 report.  “The income gap may have narrowed in recent years, but
it’s still too early to say that the narrowing is a trend,” Li
Shi, executive dean of Beijing Normal University’s  China 
Institute of Income Distribution and a government adviser, said
in a phone interview. “The number is close to what others have
calculated about China’s income gap.”  Until today, the last national Gini coefficient number from
the government was for 2000, when the figure was 0.412. Bo Xilai
said in March, before he was ousted as Communist Party secretary
of Chongqing, the level had exceeded 0.46.  Rich, Poor  The decline since 2008 reported today contrasts with the
U.S., where the income gap between rich and poor grew to the
widest in more than 40 years in 2011. U.S. Census Bureau data
released in September showed the measurement rose to 0.463 from
0.456 in 2010. The figure has risen steadily from its 1968 low
of 0.351.  The Gini index ranges from 0, which represents perfect
equality, to 1, pr perfect inequality. Readings above 0.4 are
used by analysts as a gauge of the potential for social
disturbances. The index is also measured on a scale of 0 to 100.
Ma said his agency arrived at the figures by using a new
approach to review historical statistics tracked back to 2003.  “The data showed that we must speed up income distribution
reform and that we urgently need to narrow the income gap,” Ma
said at today’s briefing in Beijing. “On the one hand, we must
make the cake bigger, and on the other hand, we must do a better
job in sharing the cake.”  Ma said Gini figures for 2009 for countries with similar
development levels to China showed  Mexico  at 0.48,  Argentina  at
0.46 and  Russia  at 0.4.  Good News  While the narrowing shown in today’s data is “good news,”
China’s wealth gap continues to widen as property prices rise
and homes become less affordable for migrant workers, Lu Ting,
chief  Greater China  economist at Bank of America Corp. in  Hong
Kong , said in an interview today.  “If migrant workers want to settle in Chinese cities it’s
getting much more difficult than before and it’s a big barrier
for urbanization,” Lu said. “How can they afford to rent or
own a home in urban areas?”  A private survey of 8,438 Chinese households, backed by
China’s central bank, concluded the country’s Gini coefficient
was 0.61 in 2010. The  World Bank  put the figure at 42.48 for
2005, the last year it published an index for the country.  Asked to comment on the disparity between the government’s
figures and the survey, Ma said both official data and private
surveys are “part of the statistics system and serious private
surveys should be an important and good supplement to government
data.”  Gini Readings  The statistics bureau’s Gini readings were greeted with
skepticism by economist Xu Xiaonian, previously head of research
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s China venture Gao Hua Securities
Co.  “That Gini coefficient is, to quote Zheng Yuanjie, even
wilder than a fantasy,” he wrote on his verified account on
Sina Corp.’s Weibo microblogging service, referring to a Chinese
writer of fairy tales. Xu is a professor of economics and
finance at the China Europe International Business School.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  