-- China Swaps Drop Most in 7 Months on Speculation Cash to Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-18T03:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/china-swaps-drop-most-in-7-months-on-speculation-cash-to-rise.html
China ’s one-year interest-rate swap
dropped the most in seven months on speculation the central bank
will increase the frequency of its cash-supply operations.  The People’s Bank of China may inject funds into the
banking system five days a week, compared with two currently,
Market News International reported today, citing unidentified
traders. The central bank didn’t respond to Bloomberg questions
sent via fax seeking comment. The PBOC has issued reverse-
 repurchase agreements  twice weekly since June, and uses the
contracts to ensure funding availability.  “The rumor has eased worries about cash supply before the
Lunar New Year holiday,” said Liu Junyu, a bond analyst in
Shenzhen at China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest
lender. “If it’s true, that would help the central bank reduce
volatility in cash supply.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined 12
basis points to 3.20 percent as of 11:03 a.m. in  Shanghai , the
biggest drop since June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rate fell 16 basis points this week.  Chinese financial markets will be shut from Feb. 11 to Feb.
15 for the holiday.  The seven-day  repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, climbed 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point,
to 2.90 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. It increased 27 basis points
from Jan. 11.  China’s economy  expanded 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter
from a year earlier, the government reported today. That
compares with the 7.8 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey and 7.4 percent in the previous period. Factory output
rose 10.3 percent in December, accelerating from 10.1 percent in
November, separate data showed.  The yield on the 2.95 percent government bonds due August
2017 advanced three basis points to 3.26 percent, according to
the Interbank Funding Center. The yield climbed two basis points
this week.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Simon Harvey, Amit Prakash  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 