-- China Said to Agree to UN Resolution Condemning N. Korea
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-01-18T18:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/china-said-to-agree-to-un-resolution-condemning-n-korea-launch.html
China  has broadly agreed to an
expansion of United Nations sanctions on North Korea to punish
the regime for last month’s rocket launch, according to three UN
diplomats familiar with plans for a draft resolution.  The draft resolution condemning North Korea’s nuclear
aggression will probably be circulated and put to a vote before
 South Korea  takes over the presidency of the 15-member decision-
making body in February, according to the officials, who asked
for anonymity because negotiations were private and China’s
consent to the reprieve wasn’t yet final.  The U.S. has been pressuring China to agree publicly to the
addition of further names and entities to a UN blacklist and to
deliver a binding rebuke. China,  North Korea ’s main ally and one
of the council’s five veto-wielding powers, has tended to
protect its neighbor and called instead for quiet diplomacy.  China’s decision to back off its opposition to further
measures could result in the passage of the first resolution
against North Korea in four years. China had argued until now
that the international community should attempt to engage with
the new leadership and that further sanctions would sour those
efforts.  China’s agreement to a resolution is significant
politically because it sends a message to the pariah state that
it can’t hide behind Beijing indefinitely. It would do little to
change the realities on the ground for what is the most isolated
and shunned country in the world, the diplomats said.  Botched Launch  The UN last tightened sanctions on North Korea in 2009,
shortly after it fired a long-range rocket carrying a
communications satellite that failed to enter orbit. The botched
launch last April of a rocket that exploded minutes after
liftoff was met with a statement of condemnation.  After that, the U.S. was adamant that, if North Korea were
to repeat a launch, another round of condemnation wouldn’t be
enough.  The Chinese have a track record of obstructionism,
hindering the work of a UN panel of experts investigating North
Korea’s nuclear program and most recently delaying the June
release of the group’s findings, according to Western officials.  North Korea has long sealed itself off from the world, with
an official state ideology of juche, or self-reliance, and a
narrative that pits a resilient regime against a hostile world.
There was some hope that might change after Kim Jong Un
succeeded as the country’s leader upon the death of his father,
Kim Jong-il in December 2011.  In a Jan. 1 speech, Kim signaled he might ease his
country’s confrontational approach to South Korea by saying he
would focus his energy on reunification and rebuilding the
economy of one of the world’s most impoverished nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  