-- China Vanke Seeks to Move Foreign-Currency Shares to H.K.
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-18T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/china-vanke-seeks-to-move-foreign-currency-shares-to-hong-kong.html
China Vanke Co. (000002) , the country’s
biggest publicly traded property developer by market value,
plans to move trading of its foreign-currency denominated shares
to Hong Kong to reach more investors.  Vanke will seek to convert its Shenzhen-listed B shares to
Hong Kong-listed H shares, pending approvals from the
shareholders and the regulators, the company said in a filing to
the Shenzhen stock exchange yesterday. Trading in Vanke’s so-
called B shares, denominated in Hong Kong dollars, and in its
yuan-denominated A shares has been halted since Dec. 26 pending
yesterday’s announcement, and will resume on Jan. 21.  Vanke joins  China International Marine Containers Group
Co. (2039) , the first company to leave the foreign-denominated  B share
market  for  Hong Kong , where daily trading volume is more than
3,000 times higher, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
conversion gives Shenzhen-based Vanke continued direct access to
global investors, whose access to domestic A-shares on Chinese
bourses is limited.  A group of so-called third parties will provide a cash
option for B-share holders who decide not to swap their stock
for H-shares, according to the statement.  China Resources
(Holdings) Co.,  Government of Singapore Investment Corp . and
Hillhouse Capital Management Ltd. are among buyers who have
agreed to pay HK$13.13 a share to exiting investors.  B-share markets, where foreign institutions and Chinese
individuals are allowed to trade, were set up in 1992 to give
local companies a way to raise funds from global investors,
banned from buying securities denominated in  yuan . Interest in B
shares has waned as the government allowed qualified overseas
investors to access the larger, more liquid A-share market and
eased limits on foreign exchange.  Smoother Funding  A Hong Kong listing will give Vanke a “smoother funding
channel” than Hong Kong-listed Winsor Properties Holdings Ltd.,
in which Vanke bought a 79 percent stake in July, Tian Shixin, a
Shanghai-based analyst at BOC International China Ltd., said in
a Dec. 26 interview.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission is considering
looser criteria for mainland companies to sell shares in Hong
Kong as part of its efforts to increase their access to capital,
the Shanghai Securities News reported Dec. 28, citing an
unidentified CSRC official.  The company has 1.31 billion B-shares, about 12 percent of
the total capital, with a market capitalization of HK$16.4
billion ($2.1 billion) before the Dec. 26 suspension. It was the
second largest listed company among both Shanghai and Shenzhen B
shares in terms of market capitalization.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  