-- Citigroup Said to Cut Investment Bankers’ Bonuses by 20%
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-01-18T20:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/citigroup-said-to-cut-investment-bankers-bonuses-by-20-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
 U.S. bank , cut investment bankers’ bonuses by 10 percent to
20 percent globally after a revenue slump, according to people
with knowledge of the matter.  Average bonuses in Asian and European divisions dropped
about 20 percent and the U.S., its largest market, saw
reductions of about 10 percent, one person said, declining to be
named because the details aren’t public. Staff members of the
New York-based company were informed yesterday, two people said.  New Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Michael Corbat  is
among global banking leaders who are cutting bonuses as slow
economic growth squeezes revenue and European lawmakers put
curbs on compensation. Profit at the lender’s securities and
banking unit slumped 10 percent in 2012.  “We need to show expense discipline and that we can be
smarter allocators of our resources,” Corbat told analysts
yesterday. “Improving our operating efficiency, returns on
assets, and tangible equity in a risk-balanced manner and
returning capital to our shareholders are critical goals.”  Bankers up to the vice-president level were given unchanged
or higher bonuses while senior bankers saw bonus pools drop, one
person said, asking not to be named because the details aren’t
public. Top performers probably would be spared, people briefed
on the matter said in November.  Equities Trading  Equities-trading bonuses at the bank were down by about
10 percent and bonuses for the fixed-income division ranged from
10 percent higher to 10 percent lower, one person said.  Revenue slumped 11 percent to $6.42 billion in 2012 at
Citigroup’s European securities and banking division, which
includes operations in the  Middle East  and  Africa , the company
said yesterday. Profit from continuing operations at the unit,
which includes investment banking and trading, tumbled
32 percent to $1.35 billion.  European and U.K. taxpayers still haven’t been reimbursed
for bailing out firms such as  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
and the region’s lenders face further losses amid rate-rigging
and money-laundering scandals. As a result, policy makers are
capping bonuses and forcing banks to defer more compensation and
claw back pay.  Deutsche Bank  Deutsche Bank AG, the biggest German lender, may cut
average bonuses for European investment bankers by as much as 20
percent for 2012, while bankers in New York will see smaller
declines, four people briefed on the matter said on Jan. 14.  The lender’s co-CEO Anshu Jain, at a conference in  London 
in September, called on investors to demand other firms follow
Franfurt-based Deutsche Bank’s change in compensation policies.  “We have taken a bigger first step than most of our
competitors,” he said. “Is there a risk that our competition
doesn’t follow suit? Only if you are willing to accept low ROEs
with unchanged compensation practices elsewhere.”  Other lenders that disclosed 2012 pay include JPMorgan
Chase & Co., the biggest U.S. bank, which cut corporate and
investment bank compensation by 3 percent in 2012 to
$11.3 billion as the division generated 1 percent more revenue.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-biggest U.S. bank,
boosted compensation expenses 6 percent in 2012 to
$12.9 billion, the first increase in three years, according to a
statement. The New York-based firm raised CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein’s stock bonus by 90 percent to $13.3 million.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-biggest U.S. bank, cut its
investment bank compensation pool by 8 percent and is deferring
all bonuses for about a fifth of its employees.  At Citigroup, revenue and profit at the securities and
banking division fell outside of  Europe  as well. The Asian unit
posted annual revenue of $4.2 billion, down 2 percent from 2011.
Profit from continuing operations fell 8 percent to
$822 million. Jamie Forese, appointed Citigroup co-president
earlier this month, oversees the securities and banking unit.  Revenue at the North American division fell more than any
other location, tumbling 19 percent to $6.14 billion for the
year, according to a financial supplement. Profit fell 3 percent
to $1.01 billion.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  