-- Colombian Peso Posts Weekly Decline on Intervention Speculation
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-01-18T22:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/colombian-peso-heads-for-weekly-drop-on-intervention-speculation.html
Colombia’s peso posted a weekly
decline on speculation policy makers will boost dollar purchases
to stem the local currency’s rally.  The peso depreciated 0.3 percent to 1,769.33 per  U.S.
dollar  this week. It declined 0.2 percent today. The currency,
which has gained 1.4 percent in the past month, touched 1,750.50
on Jan. 2, the strongest since July 2011.  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  told reporters yesterday
that he is concerned about the peso’s rally and the government
will use “all its ammunition” to stem gains, while ruling out
 capital controls  which he said aren’t effective enough.
President  Juan Manuel Santos  said today that additional measures
are being studied. The peso has fallen amid similar comments
from policy makers intended to stem the rally, said Eduardo Bolanos, an analyst at Asesores en Valores brokerage in Bogota.  “Verbal intervention will only take you so far, and now
the market will want to see concrete actions,” Bolanos said in
a phone interview.  Banco de la Republica probably will announce an increase in
the amount of its daily dollar purchases when policy makers next
meet on Jan. 28, Bolanos forecasts.  Policy makers will reduce the overnight lending rate 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 4 percent this month,
according to 21 of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Two
analysts expect no change.  Lower  interest rates  may also help ease gains in the peso
by reducing the appeal of the nation’s assets amid near zero
interest rates in the U.S., Europe and  Japan , Bolanos said.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in 2024 fell two basis points to 5.35 percent, according to
the central bank. That’s the lowest closing level since the
securities were issued in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  