-- Corn Extends Best Run in Year With Goldman Bullish: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-01-18T17:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/corn-extends-best-run-in-year-with-goldman-bullish-commodities.html
Corn traders are the most bullish in
seven weeks as forecasts for the smallest stockpiles relative to
demand since 1974 prompted the longest rally in a year and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to predict near-record prices.  Eighteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect futures to
gain next week and six were bearish. A further five were
neutral, making the proportion of bulls the highest since Nov.
30. Global consumption will exceed output for the second time in
three years after drought from  Europe  to the U.S. parched crops,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  says.  The grain rose for eight successive days to $7.3125 a
bushel by Jan. 16 as the USDA said global inventories by Sept.
30 will be 1.4 percent lower than previously expected and,
relative to consumption, the smallest since 1974. Prices had
slumped for five weeks and hedge funds cut bets on a rally by 59
percent since December on expectations that South American
harvests in the first half of the year would boost supply.  “We’re going to see a destocking in the world of grains
and products, and everyone is going to finish the season very
tight,” said Chris Gadd, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
London. “Prices need to go to $8 a bushel at least in the
second quarter to do the job of slowing down demand.”  Corn Prices  Corn rose 4 percent to $7.26 on the  Chicago  Board of Trade
this month, extending last year’s 8 percent advance. Prices will
jump 14 percent to $8.25 in three months, 2.8 percent below the
Aug. 10 record, Goldman said Jan. 13. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge of 24 commodities gained 1.8 percent since the start of
January and the MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities
increased 3.3 percent. Treasuries lost 0.5 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  World stockpiles will drop 12 percent to a six-year low of
115.99 million metric tons by October, the USDA said Jan. 11.
Inventories in the U.S., the top grower and exporter, slid 17
percent from a year earlier to 8.03 billion bushels (204 million
tons) on Dec. 1.  Supplies dwindled as dry weather curbed yields, boosting
prices to a record $8.49 in August. There was still moderate to
exceptional drought across 53 percent of a nine-state Midwest
region by Jan. 15, the U.S. Drought Monitor showed. U.S. corn
planting begins in April. The International Grains Council said
yesterday that global output will drop 3.6 percent to 845
million tons in the 2012-13 crop year.  Livestock Feed  The slump in prices to a six-month low on Jan. 7 may boost
demand for livestock feed. The USDA said domestic meat and
poultry production this year, as well as feed consumption, will
be bigger than previously expected.  Hedge funds  and other speculators cut bullish bets for five
consecutive weeks and held a net-long position of 115,113
futures and options by Jan. 8, the least since June 26, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data  show. Futures for
delivery in September, just before the next Northern Hemisphere
harvest, are trading at $6.12 in Chicago.  Some growing nations may bolster supply. The USDA raised
its forecast for  Argentina ’s harvest by 1.8 percent to a record
28 million tons.  Brazil , the third-biggest shipper, after the
U.S. and Argentina, will reap 71 million tons, about 1 million
tons more than the agency had predicted in December.  U.S. export sales of corn in the four weeks though Jan. 10
were 68 percent lower than in the same period a year earlier,
the USDA said yesterday. The London-based IGC expects corn
consumption to drop 1.1 percent this year to 865 million tons.  Grain Stockpiles  Costlier crops may curb demand from biofuel producers. U.S.
ethanol production fell to 784,000 barrels a day in the week
ended Jan. 11, the lowest since the  Department of Energy  began
compiling the data in June 2010. Stockpiles are up 14 percent
since reaching a 10-month low in November.  More U.S. output and bigger harvests in  China  and Europe
are needed to ease the mounting concern about supply, said
Liliana Balbi, a senior economist at the  United Nations ’ Food &
Agriculture Organization. An  index  of the cost of 55 food items
tracked by the Rome-based FAO slipped for a third month in
December, falling 1.1 percent. The gauge is still 6.7 percent
above the five-year average.  In other commodities, 17 of 30 people surveyed anticipate
higher soybeans prices next week and nine said the oilseed will
drop, while 17 of 28 said wheat will gain and seven expect a
retreat. Soybeans rose 1.1 percent to $14.245 a bushel in
Chicago this year as wheat added 1 percent to $7.86 a bushel.  Nine of 17 surveyed expect raw sugar to fall next week and
seven predicted a gain. The commodity slid 5.4 percent to 18.45
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  this year.  Metal Exchange  Sixteen people surveyed said copper will rise next week,
seven predicted a drop and five were neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the  London  Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, increased 1.7 percent to $8,067.25 a ton this year.  Nineteen of 33 traders and analysts surveyed said gold
would advance next week and 10 were bearish. Bullion rose 0.8
percent to $1,688.15 an ounce in London this year after
advancing the previous 12 years, the longest run of gains in at
least nine decades.  The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials climbed for five
straight weeks through Jan. 11, the best run since September,
and global equities reached a 20-month high this week. The  U.S.
economy  picked up across much of the country last month, boosted
by auto and home sales, the  Federal Reserve  said Jan. 16.
 China’s economy  expanded for the first time in two years in the
fourth quarter and will accelerate this quarter and next,
according to as many as 36 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Economic data out of the U.S. and China has surprised to
the upside and that’s increased economic optimism,” said
 Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“There’s still potential for further gains from here. China is
the most important consumer of commodities and the most
important driver of growth in demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  