-- Currency War Objector Resumes Ruble Intervention: Russia Credit
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-01-18T15:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/currency-war-objector-resumes-ruble-intervention-russia-credit.html
Even as Russian officials sound the
alarm on a renewed “currency war,” the nation’s central bank
is stepping up sales of the ruble to curb its gains with the
biggest interventions this month since May.  The central bank bought about 15.3 billion rubles ($503
million) of foreign currency from Jan. 8 to Jan. 16, according
to data on its website. Three-month historic volatility on the
ruble fell to 7.54 percent on Jan. 17 from 9.37 percent at the
beginning of November, while the same gauge for the Brazilian
real rose to 8.07 percent from 5 percent during the same period,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bank Rossii First Deputy Chairman Alexey Ulyukayev  said  on
Jan. 16 that  Japan ’s decision to pursue a weaker currency may
lead to reciprocal actions that would hurt the global economy as
nations seek to protect their export industries. The drop in
volatility stemming from Russia’s interventions will benefit the
domestic  debt market , according to VTB Capital.  “This is positive for the local debt market because the
ruble interventions support liquidity in the ruble banking
system,” Anton Nikitin, a VTB analyst in Moscow, said by phone.
“Lower ruble volatility makes the return on ruble bonds more
predictable.”  While Bank Rossii didn’t buy or sell dollars or euros in
December for the first month since at least August 2008,
 Taiwan ’s central bank has intervened to weaken its dollar on
most days in the past nine months and policy makers in the  Czech
Republic  are considering intervention to curb koruna gains.  Weaker Currencies  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said he’s seeking
“bold” monetary easing to end deflation, while the U.S.
Federal Reserve expanded its monthly asset purchases from Jan.
1, boosting the supply of the dollar. The push for weaker
currencies is being driven by a need to find new stimulus for
economic growth after monetary easing pushed interest rates to
near zero and fiscal policies give way to austerity.  Russia ’s currency strengthened 2.2 percent against the
dollar since the end of November, while the euro has weakened 3
percent versus the greenback in the same time period, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Russia acted last year to smooth “sharp exchange-rate
fluctuations” and plans to allow the ruble to free float by
2015, according to the central bank’s  website . Bank Rossii in
July widened the corridor in which it allows the currency to
fluctuate to between 31.65 and 38.65 rubles against its dollar-
euro target basket. That compares with a rate of 34.8405 by 7
p.m. in Moscow yesterday, which is when the central bank ceases
operations on the  currency market . Russia extended trading hours
for the ruble until 11:50 p.m. this year.  Basket Cost  “Over the last few months the cost of the basket remained
in the same scope, that’s why the central bank didn’t
intervene,” Igor Akinshin, a currency trader at  Alfa Bank  in
Moscow, said by phone. “Once the basket crosses this narrow
corridor, interventions intensify.”  The central bank’s press service in Moscow didn’t respond
to a faxed request for comment.  Developing countries  have repeatedly complained about
strong currencies as a result of monetary easing in the U.S.,
 Europe  and Japan, leading Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido
Mantega  to use the term “currency war” in 2010.  ’Mild’ Devaluations  The current round of global devaluations are “mild” as
economies have managed to adjust to rounds of quantitative
easing implemented by major central banks, Vladimir Pantyushin,
chief economist at Barclays Plc’s investment-banking unit in
Moscow, said by e-mail Jan. 16.  “In the context of continuing weakness of the global
economy I am more concerned about the exit part of the
quantitative easing exercises, i.e. how much negative impact we
will see when major central bank begin to reduce their balance
sheets,” Pantyushin said by e-mail.  The ruble fell 0.2 percent to 30.2650 per dollar by 7:21
p.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide
to expectations of currency movements, showed the ruble at
30.7045 per dollar in three months.  Russia is rated BBB by  Fitch Ratings , the second-lowest
investment-grade ranking. The yield on the country’s dollar
bonds due in April 2020 rose three basis points to 2.51 percent.
The yield on Russia’s ruble Eurobond due in 2018 fell five basis
points to 5.813 percent.  Yield Gap  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries climbed three basis points to 161,
according to JPMorgan EMBIG indexes. The difference compares
with 160 for debt of similarly-rated  Mexico  and 142 for  Brazil .  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps climbed three basis points
to 131, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The swaps cost
five basis points more than  Turkey , which is rated one step
lower by Fitch at BBB-. The contracts pay the buyer face value
in exchange for underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Russia has the world’s fourth-largest international
currency and gold reserves at $526.4 billion as of Jan. 11,
which decreased in the previous week by $11 billion, the most
since December 2011, according to the central bank data. The
decline was due to currency movements and the repayment of about
$9 billion of foreign-exchange swaps by lenders to Bank Rossii,
according to VTB’s Nikitin.  Monetary Easing  Bank Rossii is unlikely to undertake its own monetary
easing any time soon because the economy is already expanding in
line with its potential under current circumstances of about 3.5
percent a year, Ulyukayev said. Cutting  interest rates  or taking
“quantitative easing” measures would be “counterproductive”
at the moment, he said.  Ulyukayev said yesterday the strengthening currency would
help bring inflation down by the second quarter. The central
bank aims to move to a full inflation targeting regime by 2015
and seeks 5 to 6 percent inflation this year and 4 to 5 percent
in the next two years, according to its website.  The central bank is focused on containing ruble volatility
and inflation, according to Sergey Fishgoyt, deputy head of
foreign exchange at Otkritie Financial Corp.  “Interventions will continue depending on the cost of the
currency basket,” Fishgoyt said by phone from Moscow. “Russia
won’t be an exception from the global economies implementing
monetary easing, but the central bank will be protecting the
ruble from over-strengthening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  