-- Debevoise, Goodwin Procter, Norton Rose: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-01-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/debevoise-goodwin-procter-norton-rose-business-of-law.html
Mary Jo White, the former U.S.
attorney in Manhattan, is under consideration to become the next
chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, three people
with knowledge of the matter said.  White, now a partner at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in New
York, would succeed Elisse Walter, who took over as SEC chairman
last month, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the matter isn’t public.  The choice of White, who was known as a no-nonsense
prosecutor, would be a departure for the agency, which has
tended to be run by lawyers steeped in financial policy making
and the securities industry. Her relative inexperience in those
areas, along with her work defending corporate clients including
 Ken Lewis , the former chief executive officer of  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , is likely to draw fire from some lawmakers and advocates
for investors.  As U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York from
1993 to 2002, White became a leading terrorism prosecutor,
winning the conviction of four followers of Osama bin Laden for
the 1998 bombings of two U.S. embassies in Africa. Under her
direction, prosecutors won convictions for the 1993 World Trade
Center bombing and a failed plot to blow up the United Nations
headquarters and other New York landmarks. During that time, she
supervised  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s outgoing enforcement
director, and George Canellos, his deputy.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment on her
possible nomination. White didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  White’s husband, John W. White, was head of the SEC’s
division of corporation finance, which is responsible for
disclosure policies, under Republican SEC chairman  Christopher Cox  from 2006 to 2008. He’s now a partner at law firm Cravath
Swaine & Moore LLP.  In the Courts  Lawyer Sues San Antonio Spurs After Starters Skipped Miami Game  A fan of the Miami Heat basketball team is suing the San
Antonio Spurs because four of their starters didn’t play in the
team’s Nov. 29 game in Miami.  In his complaint filed in state court in Miami, Lawrence
McGuinness, a partner at McGuinness & Gonzales PA in Miami,
accused Spurs coach  Gregg Popovich  of inflicting economic
damages on fans who attended the game. The San Antonio Express-
News first reported the suit Jan. 16.  The lawsuit, which seeks class-action status, asks the
Spurs to refund the difference between premium tickets charged
for more popular games and lower-priced tickets.  The Spurs were fined $250,000 by the National Basketball
Association a day after the players missed the game.  The NBA said in an e-mailed release Dec. 1 that the move
violated league policy “against resting players in a manner
contrary to the best interests of the NBA.”  Among the players pulled from the lineup and sent back to
San Antonio were 36-year-old  Tim Duncan , 30-year-old  Tony Parker 
and 35-year-old Manu Ginobili.  Tom James, the senior director of communications for the
Spurs, declined to comment on the litigation.  McGuinness said in a telephone interview that “people
think of lawyers as ambulance chasers, but anything I get from
the suit will go to the Hurricane Sandy relief fund in New York.
In fact, this case is costing me money rather than making me
money.”  Harry Winston Says Ekati Investor Files Suit to Block BHP Sale  Harry Winston Diamond Corp. (HW)  said a holder of 10 percent of
the Ekati diamond mine sued to block the company’s proposed
acquisition of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s 80 percent stake in the
Canadian operation.  C. Fipke Holdings Ltd. alleged in an action in Ontario
Superior Court of Justice that offers made by BHP to Fipke
didn’t comply with Fipke’s rights under joint-venture agreements
for Ekati, Toronto-based  Harry Winston  said in a statement. The
suit also names Harry Winston, Stewart Blusson, who is another
minority owner, and Blusson-controlled  Archon Minerals Ltd. (ACS) ,
according to the statement.  Harry Winston said Nov. 13 it had agreed to pay about $500
million for Melbourne-based BHP’s interests in the diamond mine
as well as gem marketing operations. Minority shareholders held
pre-emptive rights to purchase BHP’s stake in the mine within 60
days in the event of a sale, BHP said in a separate statement on
Nov. 13.  Chuck Fipke and Blusson discovered the Ekati deposit in the
Northwest Territories in 1991.  Harry Winston and BHP believe that the claim by C. Fipke,
known as Fipco, “is entirely without merit, and intend to
vigorously defend the action in order to proceed with the
purchase and sale of the Ekati Mine,” Harry Winston said in the
statement.  Fipke didn’t immediately return a call for comment outside
of regular business hours. The filing couldn’t be immediately
confirmed in court records.  “We believe that we have complied with our obligations
under the Right of First Refusal provision and will work to
resolve the dispute as soon as practical to ensure the sale
process can be completed,”  Ruban Yogarajah , a BHP spokesman,
said by e-mail.  Blusson didn’t immediately return a call for comment to his
Vancouver office outside of normal business hours.  Delaware Court Dismisses Waste Claim Over Bonus Payments  A complaint challenging a corporate board’s decision to pay
more than $130 million in executive bonuses without adopting a
plan that could make the bonuses tax deductible doesn’t state a
claim for waste, the Delaware Supreme Court ruled Jan. 14.  “The decision to sacrifice some tax savings in order to
retain flexibility in compensation decisions is a classic
exercise of business judgment,” Justice Carolyn Berger wrote
for the en banc court. “Even if the decision were a poor one”
as alleged by the plaintiff, “it was not unconscionable or
irrational,” the court said.  The court said Susan Freedman was a stockholder of XTO
Energy Inc., a Delaware corporation that, before its acquisition
by ExxonMobil Corp., was in the oil and gas production business.
In 2008, Freedman filed a derivative action alleging that XTO’s
board committed waste by failing to adopt a plan that could have
made its bonuses tax deductible.  The court said that from 2004 to 2007, XTO allegedly paid
executive bonuses totaling more than $130 million, and those
payments weren’t tax deductible. The XTO board was aware that
under a qualified Section 162(m) plan, bonuses could be tax
deductible, “but it did not think that its compensation
decisions should be ‘constrained’ by such a plan,” the court
recounted.  Shortly after Freedman filed her complaint, the court said,
XTO’s board approved a Section 162(m) plan. The plan was cleared
by stockholders at XTO’s 2009 annual meeting. The court said XTO
never made use of the plan, because it merged with and into an
Exxon subsidiary in June 2010.  Freedman agreed to dismiss her complaint; she then filed a
motion for $1 million in attorneys’ fees based on her assertion
that the complaint benefited the company by causing XTO to adopt
the Section 162(m) plan. The chancery court rejected Freedman’s
suit.  Waste claims, the court said, usually involve a transaction
in which a corporation allegedly exchanges its assets for
“disproportionately low consideration. To state a claim for
waste, a stockholder must allege, with particularity, that the
board authorized action that no reasonable person would consider
fair.”  The case is Freedman v. Adams, No. 230, Delaware Supreme
Court.  DuPont Shareholder Sues Managers Over $1 Billion Court Loss  A  DuPont Co. (DD)  shareholder sued company directors and Chief
Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman , claiming mismanagement of the
seed business led to a $1 billion judgment that threatens to
wipe out the company’s cash.  In a complaint filed January 15 in U.S. District Court in
Wilmington, Delaware, shareholder Robert Zomolosky asked a judge
to force Kullman and the board to pay any damages stemming from
DuPont’s loss of a patent lawsuit involving  Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s weed
killer, Roundup. The jury award, the third-biggest last year,
could grow to $3 billion depending on future legal rulings,
according to the lawsuit.  “The DuPont board lost sight of its mandate and its
responsibilities, and acquiesced in unlawful legal maneuvers and
deceptive public statements in conscious disregard of its
obligations,” Zomolosky claimed in the complaint.  The Wilmington-based company plans to appeal the jury’s
verdict, according to the complaint, and has asked the judge to
overturn the award.  DuPont’s General Counsel Thomas L. Sager said in an e-
mailed statement that the company handled the Monsanto patent
case appropriately.  “We are confident in the appropriateness of all our
actions and the points raised in this lawsuit are simply a
repetition of those we have repeatedly addressed in the course
of the Monsanto litigation,” Sager said.  The case is Zomolosky v. Kullman, 13-cv-00094, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Law Firm Moves  Clifford Chance in Australia Hires Antitrust Lawyer  Dave Poddar, an antitrust lawyer who advised Emirates on a
proposed joint venture with Qantas Airways Ltd., has joined
 Clifford Chance , the U.K.’s highest-grossing law firm, in its
Sydney office.  Clifford Chance is boosting its workforce in the Asia-
Pacific region, where its revenue rose 28 percent in the year
ended April 30, helped by offices in Sydney and Perth added in
2011 and a new alliance in Singapore last year. Poddar joined
Jan. 7, according to a statement from the firm.  “Adding dedicated antitrust expertise has been a priority
since our establishment in Australia,” Peter Charlton, Clifford
Chance’s Asia Pacific managing partner, said in a statement.
“When overseas clients invest in Australia, or local companies
acquire or expand domestically, antitrust issues are very likely
to arise.”  The value of mergers and acquisitions in Australia slumped
41 percent to $86 billion last year from 2011 and compared with
$148.8 billion in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The slowdown during the past two years doesn’t mean there’s a
lack of work for competition lawyers, with companies planning
six to 12 months in advance, Poddar said in a phone interview.  Concentration in Australian industries from news media to
retail mean tie-ups and acquisitions face regulatory scrutiny,
he said.  “For competition lawyers giving strategic advice, there is
plenty of work,” Poddar said.  Poddar worked at Mallesons Stephen Jaques for 22 years, and
in 2011 joined Allen & Overy, which he left last year. He
declined to discuss his departure from Allen & Overy.  Norton Rose Says Stanley Hartt Joins as Counsel From Macquarie  Stanley Hartt was hired by  Norton Rose  LLP in Canada from
 Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ’s Canadian unit, where he was chairman.  Hartt, a former chief of staff to former Canadian Prime
Minister Brian Mulroney, will provide “strategic advice to
domestic and international clients,” Norton Rose said in an
announcement on its  website .  Hartt left Macquarie and joined Norton Rose’s Toronto
office this month, Peter Zvanitajs, a spokesman for Norton Rose
said in a phone interview.  Mulroney, Canada’s Prime Minister from 1984 to 1993, is
listed as a senior partner in Montreal on Norton Rose’s website.  Stephen Yan, a Macquarie spokesman, declined to comment on
Hartt’s move.  Goodwin Procter Expands Financial Institutions Group  Goodwin Procter LLP said Brynn D. Peltz joined the firm’s
financial institutions group in New York as a partner in its
transactions and investment management regulation practices, as
well as the firm’s private investment funds practice.  Peltz joins from Latham & Watkins LLP, where she was a
partner in its financial regulatory and investment funds
practices. Previously, she was a partner at Clifford Chance LLP.  Peltz has more than 20 years’ experience advising financial
institutions, including private equity, real estate and hedge
fund sponsors; alternative asset managers; business development
companies; and registered investment companies on strategic
matters.  Goodwin Procter has offices in Boston, Hong Kong, London,
Los Angeles, New York, San Diego, San Francisco, Silicon Valley
and Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 