-- Debt Markets Can Finance Potential Buyout of Dell, Barclays Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2013-01-18T18:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/debt-markets-can-finance-potential-buyout-of-dell-barclays-says.html
Debt markets can support the $15
billion of loans and bonds needed to back a potential buyout of
 Dell Inc. (DELL) , according to Barclays Plc.  The capacity of the loan market to support larger leveraged
buyouts is increasing, with almost $100 billion of the debt
being used to fund mergers and acquisitions last year, the bank
said today in a research report. The level is comparable with
2005, when the buyout boom was beginning, according to the
report.  Credit markets can finance large deals due to the return of
collateralized loan obligations, which fueled the rise of LBOs
in 2005-2007, according to Barclays. Since the 2008 financial
crisis, the debt markets have shown an ability to provide about
$10 billion of funding, including $5 billion to $7 billion of
bonds and $3 billion to $4 billion of loans, the bank said.  “While the rise in average deal size is a positive for
strategic activity, the primary issue for Dell, and for other
potential LBO candidates, is the market’s maximum capacity to
absorb a large loan offering from a single issuer,” credit
strategists led by Bradley Rogoff wrote in the report. “Today’s
market is sufficiently pliable to absorb Dell and perhaps a
small number of other similarly sized deals this year.”  A group including  Michael Dell  and private-equity firm
Silver Lake Management LLC is in talks with banks to purchase
the  Round Rock , Texas-based company in a leveraged buyout,
people with knowledge of the matter said this week.  Technology Deals  The takeover, based on market value, could be the largest
buyout of a technology company since 2007, when KKR & Co. bought
First Data Corp. for more than $25 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Dell, the third-largest maker of personal
computers, has a market capitalization of about $22.5 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The return of big LBOs, last seen before the 2008 financial
crisis, is delayed in part by the reluctance of private-equity
firms to invest large sums in deals, Barclays said in the
research report.  Banks may be hindered from making sizable lending
commitments because of increased focus on improving their
balance sheets due to more regulations, according to the report.  “We still expect the more cautious macro environment and
changing regulatory landscape to prevent a ramp-up from being as
steep this time around,” the Barclays strategists wrote.  Banks arranged $637 billion of U.S. leveraged loans last
year, compared with a record $892 billion in 2007, Bloomberg
data show.  CLO issuance also peaked in 2007, pooling about $105
billion to invest in junk-grade loans, according to  Wells Fargo
& Co ., which estimates that as much as $80 billion could be
raised this year. That would surpass the $55 billion of new CLOs
in 2012, which topped the bank’s original forecast for just $12
billion in 2012.  The loan funds are a type of collateralized debt obligation
that pool high-yield loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and returns. Leveraged-loans are a form of junk
debt rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower
than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  