-- Depardieu Hunts for Russian Grove After Putin Passport Embrace
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-01-18T12:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/depardieu-hunts-for-russian-grove-after-putin-passport-embrace.html
Gerard Depardieu , the French actor
awarded Russian citizenship this month, is shopping for land
near a provincial capital where he plans to settle down after a
feud over taxes with officials in his native country.  “He will be happy to find a place to live in Saransk,”
Arnaud Frilley, a spokesman for Depardieu, said by e-mail,
referring to the capital of the Mordovia region about 600
kilometers east of Moscow. “His desire is to find a quiet area
outside the city and to stay in a traditional little wooden
house near a grove.”  Frilley, who produced Depardieu’s 2011 film about Grigory
Rasputin, the peasant mystic with a hold over  Russia ’s last
royal family, said he’ll fly to Saransk later this month and
settle the actor’s residency status. Depardieu likes to live in
the places he works and he’s planning to shoot a movie in Russia
about Catherine the Great, Frilley said.  Depardieu, 64, dined with President  Vladimir Putin , 60, in
the Black Sea resort of Sochi on Jan. 5 after receiving his new
citizenship and then flew to Saransk at the invitation of
Nikolai Borodachev, a native of the region who heads the Russian
State Film Fund. The colleagues visited a local theater and
museum and feasted on a traditional meal of baked eggs and
bliny, washed down by Mordovian moonshine, according to Saransk
Mayor Pyotr Tultaev.  ‘Very Personal’  The actor wrote in an open letter to French Prime Minister
Jean-Marc Ayrault published in the French weekly Journal du
Dimanche last month that he would leave the country because his
 tax rate  had hit 85 percent. He bought a home and applied for
citizenship in  Belgium  before Putin granted citizenship in
Russia, where the rate is a flat 13 percent.  Borodachev said Depardieu wrote “a very personal” letter
to Putin in late December in which he asked for citizenship,
professed his love for Russia and promised to learn the
language. He’s currently the face of an advertising  campaign  by
St. Petersburg-based lender Bank Sovietsky.  Depardieu is welcome in Mordovia whether he pays taxes or
not, Mayor Tultaev said.  “That’s because he’s Depardieu, not Abramovich,” Tultaev
said, referring to  Roman Abramovich , the Russian billionaire who
owns  London ’s Chelsea Football Club.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  