-- Deutsche Bank Says U.S. Costs Will Rise on Capital Rules
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-01-18T11:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/deutsche-bank-says-u-s-costs-will-rise-on-capital-rules.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s cost of doing
business in the U.S. would rise should regulators implement
suggested capital rules for foreign lenders, said  Juergen Fitschen , the company’s co-Chief Executive Officer.  “It hinders us from using the capital base as efficiently
as we would do,” Fitschen, 64, said in a speech to students in
the western German town of Vallendar today. “It makes our
participation in a foreign market more expensive.”  The  Federal Reserve  last month proposed subjecting two
dozen foreign banks with at least $50 billion of global assets
to stricter capital rules to help lower risks to the financial
system. That would limit the ability of non-U.S. banks to
compete and could lead to a spiral of regulators implementing
protectionist measures, Fitschen said.  “We’re not against local incorporation, but we have a
preference to make the most effective use of our capital,”
Fitschen said. “That’s the one concern that bothers us a lot in
addition to wanting level playing field conditions.”  Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  said in December that
Deutsche Bank looked on the new capital rules with “quite some
concern,” though couldn’t yet tell what the consequences for
its business would be.  Deutsche Bank, based in Frankfurt, and London-based
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  would be among the institutions that would have to
keep more easy-to-sell assets in the U.S. and face restrictions
on distributing capital to parent companies. The Fed provided
$538 billion of emergency loans to the U.S. units of European
banks during the financial crisis, almost as much as it did to
domestic firms. That increased political pressure on lawmakers
and regulators to tighten rules for all lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  