-- Dortmund Coach Klopp Will Snub Approach From Chelsea: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-18T11:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/dortmund-coach-klopp-will-snub-approach-from-chelsea-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Klopp Snub  Chelsea faces a snub if it approaches Dortmund coach Jurgen
Klopp about taking over the Premier League club, the  Daily
Telegraph  said.  Klopp, who’s led Dortmund to two straight Bundesliga
titles, is more interested in becoming Germany coach, the
Telegraph said. Current national team coach Joachim Low’s
contract expires after next year’s World Cup and there’s feeling
Klopp has become the obvious successor, the newspaper said.  Atletico Madrid’s Diego Simeone, Everton’s  David Moyes ,
Swansea’s Michael Laudrup and Klopp, would also be on Chelsea’s
shortlist to replace interim manager  Rafael Benitez , the
Telegraph said.  Milan Mario?  Mario Balotelli ’s agent yesterday held talks with AC Milan,
and a bid in the range of 24 million pounds ($38 million) could
persuade Manchester City to sell the striker, the  Sun reported .  City boss Roberto Mancini has lost patience with Balotelli
after a training-ground altercation between the two and with
 Sergio Aguero  expected back from injury tomorrow against Fulham,
Balotelli will fall down the pecking order, the Sun said.  Too Rich  Wesley Sneijder  may have to lower his wage demands if he
wants to move to the Premier League, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Sneijder has been told he can leave Inter Milan in the
January transfer period, but English clubs have been put off by
talk of a 6 million pounds annual salary, about 240,000 pounds a
week, after taxes, the Mirror said.  Sneijder is stalling on an offer of more than 200,000
pounds per week from Galatasaray as his wife does not want to
move to Turkey, the Mirror said.  Facing Relegation  Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew  told owner Mike Ashley the
club must sign two new players this month or face relegation,
the  Sun said .  Pardew thought he had signed Loic Remy this week, only to
have the Marseille striker join QPR. Newcastle is two points
above the drop zone in 16th place, the Sun said.  “We definitely need a player or two in this window to make
sure of our Premier League status,” the newspaper quoted Pardew
as saying.  Computer Game  Remy said he made up his mind to join QPR after playing a
soccer computer game with owner  Tony Fernandes  after a four-hour
negotiating session, the  Telegraph  said.  “It showed to me what a good person Tony is,” the
newspaper quoted Remy as saying. “He showed his human side to
me as owner of the club.”  Backup Plan  Aston Villa is lining up Roberto Di Matteo as a replacement
for  Paul Lambert  as the team falls down the Premier League
standings, the  Daily Express  said.  Villa approached agents for Di Matteo, who was fired by
Chelsea in November, to gauge interest and the response was
encouraging, the Express said. Owner  Randy Lerner  will stand by
Lambert if he can, with the coach coming under fire with Villa
now in the relegation zone, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 