-- Dreamliner Battery Maker Also Holds NASA Space Station Contract
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-01-18T00:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/dreamliner-battery-maker-also-holds-nasa-space-station-contract.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s battery woes may not
stop with the Dreamliner.  A unit of Kyoto, Japan-based  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) , whose
batteries are now under investigation after incidents that led
to the worldwide grounding of Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner fleet, won
a contract in August to supply lithium-ion battery cells to help
power the International  Space Station . Boeing oversees all
contract work at the space station as the National Aeronautics
Space Administration’s prime contractor.  The batteries that will be supplied to NASA are different
than the product used in the Dreamliner because the station
requires power cells specifically designed for space, said Josh
Byerly, a NASA spokesman at the  Johnson Space Center  in Houston.  “Once Boeing finishes its investigations it will update us
on whatever they find is the root cause of the problems,”
Byerly said.  The space agency doesn’t plan to reconsider its use of
battery cells from the company’s GS Yuasa Lithium Power unit
before Boeing’s own investigation is complete, he said.  “These are orders for future batteries for use in the next
several years,” Byerly said in a phone interview. He didn’t
specify a time frame for the work.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  this week ordered U.S.
flights of 787s halted until airlines can show the plane’s
lithium-ion batteries “are safe and in compliance,” according
to a Jan. 16 agency statement.  Third-Tier Contractor  The FAA’s move, its first in 34 years to ground an entire
plane model, set off a race to identify the reason for a
battery-fault warning on a 787 operated by  All Nippon Airways
Co. (9202)  and a fire on a  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  jetliner.  GS Yuasa Lithium Power is a third-tier contractor that
supplies  Pratt & Whitney ’s Rocketdyne unit, itself a
subcontractor to Chicago-based Boeing. Carri Karuhn, a
spokeswoman for Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, which is owned by
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , referred questions on the ISS
contract to Boeing.  Todd Blecher, a Boeing spokesman, declined to comment about
the orders for battery cells to be used at the space station.  The contract to develop the battery cells for the space
station is one of GS Yuasa Lithium Power’s biggest accounts,
said Curtis Aldrich, the company’s director of business
development. He declined to specify a value.  “This is a large individual contract,” Curtis said in a
phone interview. “The International Space Station is such a
unique vehicle.”  Safety First  A previous contract for GS Yuasa for lithium-ion battery
development was worth about $229,000 in the fiscal year that
ended Sept. 30, 2011. The company’s work with  NASA  was first
reported by Nextgov.com.  There’s little chance that NASA will allow anything unsafe
on the ISS, said James Oberg, a former engineer for the space
shuttle program.  “There’s a much more stringent testing program to even get
on board the cargo hold of a space system to get up into space
compared to carrying luggage onto a commercial airliner,” Oberg
said in a phone interview. “It requires guarantees of non-
flammability, non-leakage of toxins -- it can’t even smell
bad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  