-- Duties May Be Imposed by U.S. on $4.2 Billion Shrimp
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-01-18T19:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/duties-may-be-imposed-by-u-s-on-4-2-billion-shrimp.html
The Commerce Department may impose
duties on $4.2 billion a year in shrimp imported from  China ,
Thailand and five other nations that U.S. producers say provide
unfair subsidies.  The U.S. agreed to investigate imports of certain frozen
warm-water shrimp from those nations as well as from  Ecuador ,
 India ,  Indonesia , and Malaysia, the agency said today in a
statement.  Subsidized imports since 2009 have “suppressed and
depressed domestic prices,” undercutting U.S. sales and
destroying jobs, the  Coalition of Gulf Shrimp Industries  said in
a Dec. 28 statement announcing its request for an investigation.  “Without relief, we fear that these unfair foreign
subsidies could eventually drive our domestic industry to
extinction,” the coalition, a group of about 30 domestic
processors and seafood companies, said.  Shrimp from the seven countries subject to the
investigation account for about 85 percent of all U.S. imports
of the shellfish, according to the coalition.  Americans each year consume more than 1 billion pounds (454
million kilograms) of shrimp, the nation’s most popular seafood,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission. The
product has also long been the subject of trade disputes. A
commission ruling in 2011 allowed the extension of duties to
prevent shrimp imports from  Thailand ,  Brazil , China and India
from being sold in the U.S. below production costs.  Frozen Shrimp  The Commerce Department’s investigation covers frozen
shrimp that is packed in marinade, spices or sauce. It doesn’t
include fresh, canned or breaded shrimp. The agency said it
plans to announce its preliminary findings on the request for
anti-subsidy duties around March 25 and final determinations
around June 6. The International Trade Commission determines
whether the domestic industry has been harmed by subsidies from
other governments and is scheduled to make its decision by Feb.
11.  Thailand exports the most shrimp to the U.S., about $1.6
million worth in 2011, followed by Indonesia and Ecuador,
according to the Commerce Department. The seven countries
exported $4.2 billion of shrimp in 2011, according to the
agency.  “We commend the Department of Commerce for initiating
these seven investigations,” David Veal, Executive Director of
the shimp coalition said in an e-mailed statement.  Two of the nations cited in the complaint, Vietnam and
 Malaysia , are part Pacific-region trade talks with the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  