-- DVB Says India Plane Lease Costs to Rise on Kingfisher Default
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-01-18T07:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/dvb-says-india-plane-lease-costs-to-rise-on-kingfisher-default.html
Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  and rival
carriers in the nation face rising aircraft financing costs
after Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. defaulted on leases and Indian
authorities failed to help recover the planes,  DVB (DVB)  Bank SE said.  “Risk is perhaps higher than we thought,” Bertrand Grabowski, managing director for aviation and rail at the
Frankfurt-based bank, said in an interview in Singapore today.
“If someone is willing to do aircraft financing in  India , costs
will move up,” he said without specifying any rates.  DVB Bank hasn’t been able to place with other carriers the
two Airbus SAS A320s it repossessed from Kingfisher as India’s
aviation regulator refused to deregister the jets, Grabowski
said. The lender suspended all financing to Indian carriers
because of the situation, he said.  Kingfisher (KAIR) , the only Indian carrier to order Airbus A380s,
has grounded planes since October after five straight years of
losses. The carrier lost its operating license on Jan. 1 after
failing to convince Indian authorities it has enough funds to
revive operations.  DVB has parked the two jets it repossessed from Kingfisher
in  Turkey  for the past 3-4 months, Grabowski said. India’s
Directorate General of Civil Aviation hasn’t given a reason for
not allowing the deregistration, he said.  The nation’s airlines rely on financing from foreign banks
for purchase and lease of aircraft, said Praveen Sahay, a
Mumbai-based analyst at Batlivala & Karani Securities India Pvt.
The cost of such funding is in the range of 5 percent to 6
percent, he said.  Risk Premium  “It’s possible that leasing costs will rise,” said Binit Somaia, a Sydney-based director at CAPA Centre for Aviation.
“The lessors and financiers will attach a higher risk premium
to the Indian market if there are concerns they can’t recover
their assets in the event of a default.”  The Delhi  High Court  will hear on April 8 DVB Bank’s
lawsuit against the Indian aviation regulator on deregistering
the two Kingfisher aircraft, according to the court’s  website.   Arun Mishra, who heads New Delhi-based DGCA, said Dec. 21
the regulator would withhold the deregistration and export
certificate for the planes until a court decision. Mishra didn’t
immediately respond to a call and a text message to his mobile
phone today.  India’s aviation ministry estimates that the nation’s
carriers are expected to add about 370 aircraft by the year
ending March 31, 2017. The fleet size would reach 1,000 by 2020
from 400 last year, according to the ministry.  DVB has about $450 million of direct and indirect financing
to state-owned Air India Ltd., discount carrier IndiGo and Jet
Airways, Grabowski said. After Kingfisher’s defaults, two banks
decided to discontinue financing to the Indian aviation market,
he said without naming the lenders.  “The Kingfisher story has been a kind of trauma for many
banks,” Grabowski said. “The concern is not just for DVB, it’s
an industry concern.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in  Singapore  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  