-- The Russian Mafia Is Dead. Or Is It?
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-01-18T15:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/the-russian-mafia-is-dead-or-is-it-.html
One of the last mafia kingpins from
 Russia ’s wild 1990s has died. Rather than marking the end of an
era, the event is reminding Russians just how much their
government has occupied the role once played by organized crime.  Grandpa Hassan, as the mafia don was known, spent his last
day holding court in the downtown Moscow cafe that served as his
headquarters. At 2:30 p.m., he emerged to catch two bullets in
the head and back, from a sniper on a roof across the street.
Within hours, “GrandpaHassan” was a trending topic on Twitter.
In the very act of dying, a figure from a freer, more lawless
era thrust the nation into an examination of its criminal past
and present.  Grandpa, whose passport identified him as Aslan Usoyan, 75,
was a legend in his own time. An ethnic Kurd, he was “crowned”
in 1966 as a “vor v zakone” -- a Russian crime boss of the
highest rank. He survived at least three assassination attempts,
outliving most of the ranking mobsters of his generation and
staying on in Russia as others left for warmer shores in Spain
or  Bulgaria . His livelihood involved mediating mob conflicts and
running a network of shadowy interests, primarily in the south
of Russia.  “Only one remained in Russia, one who was known to all
without exception,” journalist Maxim Kononenko  eulogized  in the
newspaper Izvestia. “A figure from an earlier time, a Loch Ness
monster, a yeti, a real fossil -- someone who connected us to
our past.”  As if in recognition of Usoyan’s importance, police
immediately posted guards at the Botkin Hospital morgue where
his body was delivered after doctors failed to revive him. “They
should have called in the honorary guard from Lenin’s tomb,”
 wrote  blogger Sergei Averin on Twitter.  Versions of why Usoyan finally met a violent death
abounded. He was  reported  to be skimming off the multibillion-
dollar budgets earmarked for the 2014 Winter Olympics to be held
on his home turf, in the Black Sea resort town of Sochi. Some
said his old enemy Tariel Oniani, an opponent in gangland wars
since the 1980s, must have been involved in the killing. Others
suggested that he had been selling weapons to Kurdish
separatists in  Turkey , and the hit was punishment from the
Turkish special services. Still others blamed younger mobsters
fed up with Hassan’s old-school methods and abnormally long
reign.  “I’m sick of this Hassan already,” blogger Sergei Nikolaev
 commented  on Twitter. “It’s as if half the country has just got
out of jail.”  Since the early 2000s, mobsters had faded from public view
in Russia. Stories of the “Russian mafia” were for naive
foreigners. In that context, some commentators portrayed
Usoyan’s demise as a benefit of Putin’s authoritarian rule.  “The murder of Grandpa Hassan has put a full stop at the
end of the ’accursed ’90’s’ story, unless he somehow manages to
rise from the dead,” Vladimir Novikov  wrote  on the state-
controlled site RAPSInews.ru.  “Such murders and a well-developed criminal underworld are
features of market democracies such as the U.S. or  Italy ,”
Alexei Pushkov, head of the Russian parliament’s Foreign Policy
Committee,  commented  in his microblog.  Others, though, see less difference between the current
regime and the organized crime of old. Under Putin’s tight
clique of former KGB officers, law enforcement agencies have
become more powerful than any mafia. Extortion and racketeering
are now largely the turf of tax inspectors and economic-crime
police.  “Private business is still deprived of effective protection
on the part of the law enforcement system and the courts,” wrote
journalist Mikhail Kozyrev on the opinion website Slon.ru. “If
there is demand for fair solutions to problems, there will also
be supply” from bureaucrats, police, special services and even
crime bosses. “Quite law-abiding businessmen reach out to them
for protection.”  In short, the mobsters are not really gone. They have
merely been forced to share the market with other protection
peddlers. Albeit less visible, they are just as wealthy and
well-connected.  “I have met some mobster-businessmen with close ties” to
state-owned companies, bureaucrats and special services,
investigative journalist Irina Reznik wrote in a Facebook
 comment . “Very often these businessmen have run errands too
shady for government-appointed managers and officials.”  Grandpa Hassan’s cafe office, after all, was just a mile
from the Kremlin.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow and Kiev
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 