-- Manchester Airports Buys Stansted for 1.5 Billion Pounds
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-01-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/heathrow-sells-standsted-airport-for-1-5-billion-pounds.html
Manchester Airports Group, owner of
Britain’s busiest airport outside  London , agreed to buy London’s
Stansted Airport for 1.5 billion pounds ($2.38 billion) in cash
to add  Europe ’s premiere low-cost hub.  Manchester is buying the airport from Heathrow Airport
Ltd., which is ceding 100 percent of Stansted to comply with
regulatory requirements. The transaction will probably close by
the end of February, Heathrow said in a statement yesterday.  Adding Stansted, which lies about an hour north of London,
gives Manchester a fourth airport in the U.K. and a potential
second base to attract international airlines including
Emirates, which already serves Manchester with an Airbus A380.
Stansted lured 18 million people in 2011 and specializes in low-
cost services, with  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  as its No. 1 operator.
Manchester attracted 19 million customers.  “The transaction represents a significant milestone in the
achievement of our previously stated strategy of adding a
quality airport to the group and delivering long term value to
our shareholders,” Manchester Airport Chief Executive Officer
Charlie Cornish said in a company release.  Stansted, designed by U.K. architect  Norman Foster , ranks
as London’s third-busiest airport behind Heathrow, Europe’s
busiest, and Gatwick south of the capital. Manchester said on
Oct. 17 that it would bid for Stansted following the
announcement of an auction on Aug. 20 by Heathrow amid pressure
for an asset sale from U.K. antitrust regulators.  Australia Backing  Manchester is counting on financial backing from Industry
Funds Management of  Australia , which will take a 35.5 percent
interest in the enlarged group, according to a separate
statement. The deal represents an acquisition multiple of 15.6
times 2012 earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, Manchester said.  Another bidder for Stansted was Australia’s  Macquarie Group
Ltd. (MQG) , the  Daily Telegraph  reported Jan. 8, citing people with
knowledge of the auction process. Heathrow didn’t identify a
rival bidder when it announced the sale .  Manchester, which also runs the East Midlands and
Bournemouth terminals, is served by 10 foreign long-haul
carriers. The north English airport is also the only one in
Britain outside Heathrow used by the A380 superjumbo, the
world’s biggest jetliner.  “We will continue to focus on improving Heathrow, Glasgow,
Aberdeen and Southampton airports,” Heathrow Chief Executive
Officer Colin Matthews said in the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  