-- Heating Oil Gains on Forecasts for Colder Weather in Northeast
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-01-18T21:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/heating-oil-gains-on-forecasts-for-colder-weather-in-northeast.html
Heating oil gained on forecasts for
colder-than-normal weather in the U.S. Northeast next week at a
time when supplies of the fuel are declining.  Futures rose 1 percent as temperatures in the Northeast and
eastern  Canada  are expected to fall 8 to 14 degrees below normal
from Jan. 23 to 27, according to MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland . East Coast  heating oil supplies  fell a
fifth consecutive week through Jan. 11 and are 42 percent below
a year earlier, data from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration show.  “Heating oil continues to be supported by cold weather in
the U.S. and Europe,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston.  Heating oil for February delivery rose 3.13 cents to settle
at $3.0525 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Volume
was 18 percent below the average of the past 100 days. Prices
rose 1.5 percent this week.  There will be no Nymex floor trading on Jan. 21 in
observance of the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday in the U.S.  The premium of February delivery futures over the March
contract increased 0.39 cent to 1.06 cents a gallon, the largest
gap since Jan. 9. The increasing backwardation can indicate
greater demand for near-term delivery or tighter supply.  Temperatures in the Northeast are expected to drop 8
degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 Celsius) next week before returning to
seasonal levels in about 10 days, according to  Matt Rogers ,
president of the Commodity Weather Group LLC. That may be just a
lull before the next cold blast arrives, said Rogers from his
office in Bethesda, Maryland.  Lower Temperatures  The  National Weather Service ’s  Climate Prediction Center 
estimated lower-than-normal temperatures in the Northeast from
Jan. 23 to Jan. 27. The region accounts for about 80 percent of
households that use heating oil, according to the EIA.  Upcoming winter and spring refinery maintenance may reduce
product inventories. Motiva Enterprises LLC will shut a crude
unit, a delayed coker and a sulfur recovery unit at the  Port
Arthur ,  Texas , refinery Feb. 17 for a 38-day maintenance
turnaround, two people familiar with operations said.  “We have turnarounds coming up and Europe is cold and the
six-to 10-day forecast looks colder than normal,” said  Andrew Lebow , a senior vice president at Jefferies Bache LLC in  New
York .  U.S. refinery utilization fell 1.2 percentage points last
week to 87.9 percent, the lowest level in eight weeks, according
to EIA data. Between now and May, an average 1.5 million barrels
a day of U.S. refinery capacity will be shut for maintenance,
according to Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy
Aspects Ltd., a research consulting company in London.  Refinery Maintenance  “Refineries are being taken down for maintenance,” Sen
said. “The Motiva maintenance is important because that’s
capacity that had been in the market that will be taken out.”  Gasoline for February delivery rose 2.84 cents, or 1
percent, to $2.7968 a gallon, the highest settlement since Jan.
3. Volume was 28 percent below the average. Prices advanced 2.1
percent this week, the first gain in three weeks.  The  retail price  for regular gasoline, averaged nationwide,
rose 0.1 cent to $3.293 a gallon, AAA said today on its website.
That’s the first increase in seven days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  