-- Coeure Says ECB Loan Repayment Won’t Affect Overnight Rates
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-01-18T15:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/ecb-s-coeure-downplays-loan-repayment-impact-on-overnight-rates.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said he doesn’t expect much of an
effect on overnight interbank rates from early repayments of
three-year loans to banks that can begin as soon as this month.  “We don’t have a normative or prescriptive view on whether
banks should repay the LTRO” early, Coeure said at an event in
Paris today, referring to the ECB loans, known as longer-term
refinancing operations. “Will it have a big impact on the money
market? I don’t expect it to have a big impact.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB flooded financial markets with more
than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) in cheap three-year funds
starting in December 2011 to bolster  Europe ’s financial system.
With a fragile recovery in market confidence under way,
investors are testing the ECB’s attitude to loan repayments for
signs it may tighten credit as it maintains its benchmark
interest rate at a record low.  The euro fell against the dollar after the comments and was
down 0.4 percent at $1.3322 as of 4:00 p.m. Frankfurt time. It
reached $1.3404 on Jan. 14, the strongest since Feb. 29, 2012.
German bonds rose, with 10-year yields falling from the highest
level in three months, to 1.58 percent.  Speculation that banks will start repaying ECB loans early
had prompted futures traders to step up bets that borrowing
costs will rise as liquidity is drained from the system.  ‘Satisfactory’ Conditions  ECB President Mario Draghi, who introduced the long-term
loans in his second month at the head of the central bank, said
last week that funding conditions in markets are currently
“satisfactory” and that banks could pay back the funds in
weekly installments. The first three-year  loan , from December
2011, can be paid back from Jan. 30, and the February 2011
tender can be repaid from Feb. 27.  Coeure’s comments suggest the ECB isn’t actively
encouraging banks to pay back the loans and thereby attempting
to tighten money-market conditions as a nascent recovery gathers
pace, said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP Paribas
in  London .  “If the ECB continues to give the impression that it is
done easing, it runs the risk of an unwelcome tightening of
monetary conditions via the exchange-rate channel,” Wattret
said. “This could be interpreted as a rowing back of sorts.”  ECB non-standard monetary policy measures, ranging from the
three-year loans to the OMT bond-buying program announced in
September, produced relative calm on financial markets as
political leaders made progress last year on reforming bringing
the euro-area’s 17 economies closer together in a bid to mend
the causes of the debt crisis. The ECB’s benchmark interest rate
stands at 0.75 percent, and the deposit rate is at zero.  Positive Contagion  While Draghi last week hailed the “positive contagion” in
financial markets, he also warned that it’s too early to declare
victory over the debt crisis. The central bank forecasts the
economy will return to growth in the second half of this year.  As the recovery takes hold, Coeure said that there’s no
compulsion to repay the loans.  “We’ve given them an option, they’ll exercise it, and they
can do so in a continuous way over time,” he said. “I don’t
expect the repayments to have a major impact on Eonia, given the
excess liquidity in the euro area, which remains significant and
that depends fundamentally on the economic situation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  