-- Mediaset Jumps on Outlook for Advertising Market: Milan Mover
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-01-18T10:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/mediaset-jumps-on-outlook-for-advertising-market-milan-mover.html
Mediaset SpA (MS)  had the biggest gain in
13 years as analysts including those at Berenberg Bank expect a
recovery in the advertising market to benefit the broadcaster
controlled by former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi .  The  stock  jumped as much as 13 percent to 2.16 euros, the
steepest intraday rise since February 2000, and was up 8 percent
as of 10:35 a.m. in Milan, extending yesterday’s 9 percent gain.
The company, which has a market value of 2.43 billion euros
($3.24 billion), is the best performer in the benchmark FTSE MIB
index this year with a 32 percent gain.  Mediaset is the second-best performer on the STOXX Europe
600 Index this year after Bankia SA.  “Mediaset’s share price has roared ahead in 2013, as
enthusiasm to buy the declining Italian yield has increased,”
Berenberg Bank analyst Sarah Simon wrote in a note today. “We
continue to see Mediaset as the best recovery story within the
European media sector.”  Simon, who has a buy rating on the stock, increased her
price estimate to 2.6 euros from 1.9 euros.  Credit Suisse yesterday  upgraded Mediaset  to outperform
from underperform after being negative on the company for more
than two years. The increase reflects “the recovery potential
of the Italian TV advertising market and initial indications
from media buyers that 2013 could be significantly less bad than
2012,” it wrote in the note yesterday.  Mediaset, which runs free-to-air and pay-TV channels, in
November reported losses for the third quarter and the first
nine months and cut its full-year profit forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  