-- Mediq Shares Surge as Advent Boosts Offer for Pharmacy Chain
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-01-18T15:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/mediq-shares-surge-as-advent-boosts-offer-for-pharmacy-chain.html
Advent International Corp. raised
its offer for Dutch pharmacy chain  Mediq NV (MEDIQ)  by 5.7 percent,
seeking to overcome resistance to the private-equity firm’s
efforts to expand in the health-care distribution industry.  Advent increased its bid to 14 euros a share from 13.25
euros, representing a 62 percent premium over Mediq’s closing
share price on Sept. 21, the last trading day before the Boston-
based company announced its initial offer. Mediq rose as much as
11 percent in Amsterdam and traded at 13.65 euros at 3:55 p.m.  The new price “is final and is being offered as a last
attempt to bridge the valuation gap between Advent and those
shareholders that have not yet tendered their shares,” Advent
said today in a statement. The new bid  values Mediq  at 819
million euros ($1.09 billion), and the offer period was extended
to Jan. 29.  Mediq , founded in 1899 and based in Utrecht, owns more than
200 pharmacies in the Netherlands. It sells drugs, medical
devices and care services in 15 countries including  Poland , the
U.S., Germany and  Sweden . Private ownership will enable Mediq to
make acquisitions to expand globally, and provide easier access
to financing, the company has said.  The new offer is a “good, serious step,” Jack Jonk, head
of equities at insurer  Delta Lloyd ’s asset management division,
an investor in Mediq. Delta Lloyd will consider the higher bid,
he said. The offer, originally due to expire Jan. 4, had already
been extended once.  Board Support  The management and supervisory boards of Mediq support the
purchase, the companies said in September. The retailer’s
shareholders voted in December against the conditional
appointment of three Advent directors to the Mediq supervisory
board.  Advent, whose other European health-care investments
include Median Kliniken in  Germany , made an indicative offer for
Mediq in June after the Dutch company started looking for
buyers, supervisory board Chairman Sjoerd van Keulen told
reporters on a conference call on Sept. 24. No other party made
a “tangible bid,” he said at the time.  The easier access to financing may support plans to  expand 
internationally through takeovers, Mediq Chief Executive Officer
Marc van Gelder said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  