-- Meinl Debt Rated ‘Highly Speculative’ as Fitch Sees Legal Risks
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-01-18T17:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/meinl-debt-rated-highly-speculative-as-fitch-sees-legal-risks.html
Meinl Bank AG, the Austrian lender
owned by the coffee-roasting Meinl family, was assigned a B
credit rating by  Fitch Ratings , meaning it considers the firm’s
debt as “highly speculative.”  The assessment reflects legal and reputational risks Meinl
Bank is exposed to due to both past and present business, Fitch
said in a statement today. The ratings company also cited
Meinl’s “below-average corporate governance,” complex
ownership structure and “extraordinarily high” dividend
payouts. While its capital is adequate, it could erode quickly
should legal risks materialize, Fitch said.  “Fitch acknowledges Meinl Bank’s efforts to reposition its
business model,” analysts Christian Kuendig and Krista Davies
said in the statement. “While Fitch understands that Meinl
Bank’s central and eastern European corporate-finance
transactions at all times comply with relevant laws and
regulations, they are often motivated by regulatory or tax
arbitration considerations and expose Meinl Bank to what Fitch
considers to constitute additional reputational risk.”  Meinl Bank Chairman Julius Meinl V, scion of the family
that owns the lender, is free on a record 100 million-euro ($133
million) bail since 2009 as Austrian prosecutors investigate him
on allegations of fraud and misuse of funds. Meinl denies the
accusations, which are linked to its former affiliate property
firm Meinl European Land, and has said he didn’t break the law.
No charges have been brought.  Meinl Bank settled a multibillion-euro dispute with Meinl
European Land’s successor company  Atrium European Real Estate
Ltd. (ATRS)  in 2011.  Meinl spokesman Thomas Huemer said the fact that the bank
requested the rating shows its transparency and that it has
surmounted past issues. He declined to comment on Fitch’s
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  