-- Templeton Cuts Apple Holdings on Emerging-Markets Phone Strategy
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-01-18T06:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/templeton-cuts-apple-holdings-on-emerging-markets-phone-strategy.html
Franklin Templeton Investments (BEN)  cut
its holdings of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  last year on concern the maker of the
iPhone lacks a strategy to sell cheaper smartphones in emerging
markets such as  China  and India.  With the U.S. market “saturated,” Apple needs to expand
in developing nations, George Russell, a portfolio manager for
the Franklin Equity Group, said at a conference in Singapore.
The Franklin U.S. Opportunities Fund pared its holdings of Apple
to 4.2 percent at the end of last year from about 7 percent in
2011, Russell said. Apple is still the fund’s biggest holding as
of the end of last year, he said. The fund bought shares of
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , he said.  “We trimmed on a few occasions last year,” he said today,
referring to Apple. “We are concerned about their lack of a
strategy in the lower-end phone which tends to be sold much more
in the emerging market. U.S. is pretty saturated. It’s  emerging
markets  where there’s incremental new growth.”  Apple fell to the lowest price in 11 months in New York on
Jan. 14 after the Nikkei reported production of its latest
smartphone model, the iPhone 5, was scaled back on weak demand.
IPhone sales could be slowing because smartphones are already
common in developed markets, where Apple is strongest, said
James Cordwell, an analyst at Atlantic Equities Service in
London.  The U.S. Opportunities Fund, which had assets of $2.51
billion at the end of the last year, has gained 10 percent over
the past year, trailing 70 percent of rival funds, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The fund has beaten 74 percent of peers over
five years with a 4.9 percent advance.  China Economy  The Cupertino, California-based company needs to overhaul
its supply chain to meet demand for cheaper smartphones in
emerging markets, former chief executive officer  John Sculley 
said in a Bloomberg television interview on Jan. 15.  Apple’s CEO  Tim Cook  said China will overtake the U.S. to
become its largest market. The company had $5.7 billion of sales
in China during the quarter ended September. U.S. revenue was
about $14.4 billion, based on figures in an Oct. 25 earnings
statement.  China’s economy  has “turned the corner,” Dennis Lim, who
helps manage $48 billion of emerging-market funds at Templeton,
said today from Singapore. A government report today showed
economic growth accelerated for the first time in two years as
government efforts to revive demand drove a rebound in retail
sales, industrial output and the housing market.  Nokia Oyj boosted its share of the basic-phone market to 35
percent last quarter, the highest in two years, by adding
features such as quicker Web and online games to its Asha
handsets popular in faster-growing economies including  India  and
China.  Apple shares fell 0.7 percent to $502.68 in New York
trading yesterday. The shares have lost 1.4 percent this year
after gaining 31 percent in 2012.  Apple hasn’t “addressed how they are going to attack the
low-end phone market,” Russell said. “For that reason, we feel
the margin structure of their high-profit type of product could
be under pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  