-- Energy Position Limits May Cause More Price Volatility, IEA Says
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-01-18T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/energy-position-limits-may-cause-more-price-volatility-iea-says.html
The implementation of stricter
regulations on global swaps markets, such as position limits and
higher margin requirements, may cause energy prices to become
more volatile, the International Energy Agency said.  “The new rules are intended to bring transparency to the
swaps markets and lower their risks,” the Paris-based energy
adviser said in its monthly oil market report today.
“Regulatory uncertainties and inconsistencies within and across
jurisdictions might in fact lead to less transparent and more
risky global financial markets.”  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the
Securities and Exchange Commission rolled out regulations
governing over-the-counter swaps last year to comply with the
Dodd-Frank Act, which aimed to bring transparency to the markets
after soured mortgage and credit bets contributed to the
financial crisis in 2008.  The introduction of position limits in futures markets in
order to limit speculation may cut trading activity and cause a
wider spread between bid and offer prices, the IEA said.  Increased margin and capital requirements could expand the
market share for large speculators in commodities without
affecting prices, the agency said.  Energy markets are undergoing “futurisation” as exchanges
such as the  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE)  and  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
move to convert over-the-counter energy swaps into futures, the
IEA said in its report. This may limit the effectiveness of
regulators’ efforts to standardize swap markets.  Varying rules may also spur market participants to migrate
their trading activities to regions with less strict regulation
and shift financial risks to more opaque areas, the IEA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  