-- EPA Seeks Emission Curbs on Coal Plant Marring Grand Canyon View
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-01-18T19:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/epa-seeks-emission-curbs-on-coal-plant-marring-grand-canyon-view.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
 proposed  air-pollution limits for the Navajo Generating Station
in  Arizona , a 2,250 megawatt coal-fired power plant blamed for
reducing visibility at the Grand Canyon and other national
parks.  The facility, the largest coal plant in the West, would
have until 2023 to comply with the new standards on nitrogen
oxide. Typically, clean-air rules require compliance within five
years, Rusty Harris-Bishop, an EPA spokesman, said in a phone
interview. The agency has greater flexibility in this case
because the plant is on American Indian land, the EPA said.  Extending the compliance deadline until 2023 was a
“warranted compromise” given the economic importance the plant
holds for area Indian tribes, Harris-Bishop said. Many of its
workers are Navajo and its coal is mined on both Navajo and Hopi
lands. The agency also said that the plant has already taken
measures to reduce harmful emissions.  The rule seeks to reduce nitrogen oxide by 84 percent. When
it reacts with other chemicals, the pollutant forms ozone and
fine particles and can cause respiratory ailments including
asthma, bronchitis and emphysema, the EPA said today in a
statement.  The rule will lead to “cleaner, healthier air and preserve
the visibility essential to the economic vitality of the
region,” Jared Blumenfeld, EPA’s regional administrator for the
Pacific Southwest, said in the release.  ‘Visibility Impact’  The proposed limits would reduce the “visibility impact”
by an average of 73 percent and protect public health, the EPA
said. Plant emissions create a “veil of white or brown haze”
that reduces visibility at 11 national parks and wilderness
areas in the Southwest, according to the agency.  The Navajo Generating Station began operating in the
mid-1970s in Page, Arizona, near Lake Powell and less than 20
miles from the Grand Canyon. In addition to providing
electricity to  Los Angeles , it powers the Central Arizona
Project, an aqueduct system that brings water to much of the
state.  The plant is owned by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation and
five utilities: Salt River Project, Los Angeles Department of
Water & Power, Arizona Public Service Co., Nevada Power Co. and
Tucson Electric Power Co.  The  Sierra Club , a San Francisco-based environmental group,
said it would seek the “speediest possible implementation” of
the pollution controls.  “We do remain concerned about the lengthy time period
proposed to clean up this dirty coal plant, as this pollution
should have been cleaned up decades ago,” Andy Bessler, the
group’s Southwest organizing representative, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The EPA said it would accept comments for 90 days on the
proposed rule. The agency said it already received 6,700 public
responses after it first announced in 2009 it would issue new
air-pollution standards for the plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  