-- Meralco to Return to Generation With 3,000-Megawatt Power Plans
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-01-18T00:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/meralco-to-return-to-generation-with-3-000-megawatt-power-plans.html
Manila Electric Co., the  Philippines 
largest power retailer, will return to generation after a four-
decade hiatus with plans to build plants to supply as much as 30
percent of the main island of  Luzon ’s demand.  The company, known as Meralco, will build 2,700 megawatts
of coal- and gas-fired plants in Luzon in seven years, President
Oscar Reyes said in an interview in Makati City yesterday. A
government law prohibits a single company from supplying more
than 30 percent of installed generating capacity in each of the
country’s three grids. Meralco is also planning a 300-megawatt
coal-fired plant in Mindanao, the nation’s second-biggest island
that suffers from daily outages, he said.  Producing its own power will reduce  Meralco (MER) ’s dependence on
generators and secure electricity supply in a nation where sales
rose 7.1 percent last year. Meralco sells electricity to the
capital and nearby provinces, which together account for half of
the Philippines’ $225 billion economy. Sales may increase 3.5
percent this year, Reyes said.  “The expansion into power generation will significantly
boost profitability,” said George Ching, a Manila-based analyst
at COL Financial Group Inc., who rates the stock a buy. “A
power plant’s profitability can be higher than power
distribution because there is a cap on returns from
distribution. The power plant won’t have merchant risk because
the electricity will be sold to its own franchise area.”  Meralco buys most of its electricity from producers such as
First Gen Corp., Aboitiz Power Corp. and San Miguel Corp.  “Rather than being a pure price taker, without any
leverage, we felt it was necessary to re-enter the generation
business,” Reyes said.  ‘Tight’ Supply  Meralco rose 2.3 percent to 279.60 pesos yesterday. The
shares have risen 7.3 percent this year, compared with the
benchmark stock index’s 4.5 percent gain.  The power retailer is building a $1.2-billion, 600-
megawatt, coal-fired plant in Zambales, a province north of
 Manila , with Aboitiz Power and Taiwan Cogeneration Corp. that
will start in 2016, Reyes said. A feasibility study is being
conducted for a 1,500 megawatt to 1,700 megawatt gas plant in
southern Luzon. An additional 600-megawatt coal plant in the
island is also planned, he said.  Electricity supply in Luzon will become “increasingly
tight” because some of the plants in the island are old and
susceptible to outages, Reyes said.  Meralco will build a 300-megawatt coal plant in the
southern island of Mindanao with a partner, Reyes said.  “We want to replicate our services in areas that are not
adequately served,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  