-- Hero MotoCorp Falls After Profit Misses Estimates: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-01-18T10:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/hero-motocorp-falls-after-profit-misses-estimates-mumbai-mover.html
Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL)  fell to the
lowest in more than four months in Mumbai trading after India’s
biggest motorcycle maker posted profit that missed analysts’
estimates as competition from  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  intensified.  Shares of Hero dropped 3 percent to 1,764.10 rupees, the
lowest level since Aug. 31, at the close in Mumbai. Third-
quarter  net income  fell 20 percent to 4.88 billion rupees ($90
million), Hero said yesterday. That missed the 5.93 billion-
rupee median of 37 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Hero has introduced four new models since it parted ways
with Honda, the world’s biggest motorcycle maker, two years
back. The Japanese company has unveiled at least seven new
models, while Bajaj Auto Ltd.,  India ’s second-biggest motorcycle
maker, has introduced at least five.  “Rising competition has definitely impacted Hero’s market
share and forced them to spend more on advertising and
marketing,” said Yaresh Kothari, an analyst at Angel Broking
Ltd. in Mumbai. “We expect the environment to remain
challenging as demand is not expected to revive in the near
term.”  Shipments at Honda’s local unit surged 37 percent to 1.94
million units in the nine months through December from a year
earlier, compared with a 2 percent decline in domestic
deliveries at Hero, according to data from the Society of Indian
Automobile Manufacturers.  Honda, which in 2010 agreed to exit a 26-year partnership
with Hero, is building a third factory in the southern Karnataka
state and will expand annual capacity to 4 million units in the
first half of this year. Hero will spend 5.5 billion rupees on
its fourth factory and a parts supply center.  The automobile industry group on Jan. 9 cut its annual
demand forecast for two-wheeler sales in India, the world’s
biggest market after  China . Growth may slow to as little as 3
percent this fiscal year from a previous projection of a 5
percent to 7 percent increase, it said, citing high borrowing
costs and a  slowing economy  discouraging buyers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  