-- Metro Shares Slide as Credit Suisse Says Sell: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-01-18T10:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/metro-shares-slide-as-credit-suisse-says-sell-frankfurt-mover.html
Metro AG (MEO)  dropped the most in five
weeks in Frankfurt trading after Credit Suisse Group AG analysts
cut their recommendation on the stock, saying the 9.6 percent
price gain this year belies the struggle  Germany ’s biggest
retailer faces in reviving earnings.  Metro fell as much as 2.9 percent to 22.80 euros, the
biggest intraday drop since Dec. 12. The shares traded down 1.9
percent as of 10:48 a.m. Credit Suisse analyst Xavier Le Mene
cut the rating to underperform from neutral. Volume represented
46 percent of the three-month average after less than three
hours of trading.  “We do not yet see broad and sustained self-help
evidence,” Le Mene, who’s based in  London , wrote in a research
note today. “Nor do we expect the severe trading conditions in
Metro’s European heartland to improve soon.”  It’s the first time Le Mene has placed an underperform
recommendation on the stock, after rating Metro at neutral or
outperform since at least 2006,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.
The stock was among the five biggest decliners in the Stock
 Europe  600 Index today.  Metro cut its forecast for 2012 earnings before interest,
tax and special items to about 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in
October because of the weakening economic climate in southern
Europe and parts of eastern Europe. The Dusseldorf-based
retailer reported little changed fourth-quarter revenue on Jan.
16 as increased sales at the Media-Saturn consumer electronics
business in Germany offset weakness in the rest of western
Europe.  “We expect ongoing price investment will be required both
instore and online at Media-Saturn Germany,” Le Mene said,
adding “similar investments” may also be required in western
Europe.  -- Editors: Angela Cullen,  Paul Jarvis   To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  