-- EU Carbon Permits Plunge to Record After Germany Cancels Sale
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-01-18T17:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/eu-carbon-plunges-after-german-sale-canceled-on-low-bid-prices.html
European Union emission permits
plunged to a record after low bids from utilities, factories and
banks forced  Germany  to cancel a sale for the first time.  EU carbon for December dropped 8.9 percent after the
European Energy Exchange AG failed to generate higher bids even
after extending the sale by 15 minutes. The unsold volume will
be added to the country’s next four auctions.  The contract has fallen 23 percent this month as EU member
states consider whether to approve a European Commission plan to
temporarily fix a record glut in supply. Unsold volumes could
exacerbate the market’s oversupply in subsequent sales,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “Demand from utilities just isn’t there,”  Matthew Gray ,
an analyst in London at Jefferies Group Inc., said in a phone
interview. “It’s a concern how quickly it’s happening. I didn’t
think we’d see an auction fail this soon in the year.”  The benchmark future dropped 50 cents to close at a record
5.11 euros ($6.80) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London.  Soon after 11 a.m. Berlin time EEX, in Leipzig, Germany,
extended the auction by 15 minutes after bids for the 4 million
tons of carbon allowances offered didn’t meet the sale’s minimum
price, the exchange said by e-mail.  News of the extension sent carbon permits lower and didn’t
result in a successful sale. EEX later canceled the auction,
citing bidding “significantly” below prevailing market prices.  The exchange didn’t disclose the EU’s so-called reference
price and said the unsold volume would be offloaded in the next
four auctions by Germany planned for Friday each week.  ‘Wake Up’  The cancellation is a “wake-up call” for those who do not
support the plan to strengthen the emissions trading system,
 Connie Hedegaard , the EU’s climate chief said on her Twitter
Inc. account. The need to fix the market is getting urgent, she
said.  Consecutive cancellations of auctions by EU nations selling
in a combined program could boost supply at subsequent sales
“dramatically,” Konrad Hanschmidt, a Bloomberg New Energy
Finance analyst in London, said today in an e-mailed report,
citing the market’s rules.  European nations started a program of almost-daily carbon
sales last week, after giving almost all permits away for free
in the eight years through 2012. Average volume this year will
be 14.6 million tons a week, according to data from exchanges
handling the sales compiled by Bloomberg.  The price of permits, needed by factories and power
stations that burn coal and natural gas, dropped earlier this
week after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government on Jan.
16 cut its growth forecast as austerity policies in euro-region
countries damp exports.  ‘A Joke’  German gross domestic product growth will slow to 0.4
percent this year from 0.7 percent in 2012, the  Economy Ministry 
said in its annual report.  The EU greenhouse gas trading system should be replaced
with a carbon tax if the bloc fails to repair a system that’s
“a joke the whole world laughs about,” Johannes Teyssen, chief
executive officer of EON SE, Germany’s biggest power utility,
said in an interview with Manager Magazin published yesterday.  A lobby group representing traders from  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  to BNP Paribas SA on Jan. 16 criticized the quality of
disclosure by the European Commission in Brussels when proposing
rule changes to its market, the world’s biggest greenhouse-gas
program by traded volume.  The commission is seeking to tighten the program’s supply
glut as a new phase begins this year and traders are worried
they are exposed to further “discretionary regulatory
changes,” Sarah Deblock, EU policy director at the Geneva-based
International Emissions Trading Association, said in an
interview.  Some buyers will probably wait for prices to drop further
and the commission has limited influence to contain the market’s
decline, said Jefferies’ Gray. When the bloc set the program’s
cap before 2008, it didn’t install a system for dealing with a
supply glut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  