-- EU Lawmakers Criticize Deutsche Bank’s Monte Paschi Derivative
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-01-18T14:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/eu-lawmakers-criticize-deutsche-bank-s-monte-paschi-derivative.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA  were criticized by European Union lawmakers
for entering into a derivative that obscured losses at the
world’s oldest lender before it sought a taxpayer bailout.  Monte Paschi (BMPS)  said yesterday it will hold a “thorough”
review of its accounts after  Bloomberg News  reported that
 Germany ’s largest bank loaned Monte Paschi about 1.5 billion
euros ($2 billion) in December 2008 through a deal that helped
the Italian lender mitigate a 367 million-euro loss from an
older derivative contract with Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank.  “The only way to prevent this kind of thing is through
simplicity so that things can’t be hidden in complexity,”
 Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the European Parliament’s economic
and monetary affairs committee, said by e-mail. “This
ultimately means banning products with complex play-offs.”  The criticism adds to pressure on both lenders which are
already being examined by regulators. Deutsche Bank is being
probed over allegations it rigged global  interest rates  and
Monte Paschi is being investigated for market manipulation
before its bailout. The Italian lender, which lost money from
the trade, is seeking 500 million euros more from taxpayers,
bringing the total cost of its rescue to 3.9 billion euros.  Deutsche Bank reaped about 60 million euros in profit in
the first two weeks of December 2008 through the loan, dubbed
Project Santorini, according to more than 70 pages of documents
outlining the deal and obtained by Bloomberg News. As part of
the deal, the Italian lender made a losing bet on the value of
the country’s government bonds, according to six derivatives
specialists who reviewed the files. Monte Paschi never disclosed
the effect of the 2008 transaction in its annual reports.  ‘Bad Investment Choices’  “This case is yet another example of a bailed-out bank
having misled customers and taxpayers by taking unnecessary
risks in their trading activities,”  Arlene McCarthy , the
European Parliament lawmaker in charge of steering rules against
market abuse through the assembly, said by e-mail today. “It’s
essential that we have strong EU rules which ensure full
transparency and protect consumers and taxpayers paying for the
bad investment choices of banks.”  The European Market Infrastructure Regulation will prevent
similar transactions because trades would have to be centrally
checked by a central counterparty and reported to the regulator,
McCarthy said.  Kathryn Hanes, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank in  London ,
reiterated the bank’s earlier statement on the transaction,
saying it “was subject to our rigorous internal approval
processes and also received the requisite approvals of the
client who was independently advised.”  A spokeswoman for Monte Paschi declined to comment. The
 shares  fell as much as 1.3 percent in Milan trading and were
down 0.7 percent at 29.65 euro cents as of 3:25 p.m. today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  