-- Europe Stocks Little Changed This Week on Data,Debt Talks
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-01-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/europe-stocks-little-changed-this-week-on-data-debt-talks.html
European stocks  were little changed
this week as better-than-expected economic data from China and
the U.S. offset concern that debt-ceiling talks will weigh on
recovering growth in the world’s biggest economy.  Delhaize Group SA (DELB)  soared 13 percent as quarterly revenue
climbed. JCDecaux SA advanced 11 percent after announcing a
contract win. TNT Express NV tumbled 34 percent after United
Parcel Service Inc. abandoned its bid for the company. PostNL
NV, which holds a stake in TNT, retreated 37 percent.  The Stoxx 600  Europe  Index fell less than 0.1 percent to
287.03 this week. The measure climbed to its highest level since
February 2011 last week amid speculation that U.S. companies’
earnings would exceed analysts’ estimates.  “The great rotation into equities hasn’t begun yet,”
Kevin Gardiner, head of investment strategy for Europe, Middle
East and  Africa  at Barclays Plc’s wealth-management unit in
 London , said on Jan. 17. “Volatility will come in as we
approach the debt ceiling. Investors should react to volatility
as an opportunity to put long-term positions in risk assets.”  China ’s economic growth accelerated for the first time in
two years as government efforts to revive demand drove a rebound
in industrial output and retail sales.  Gross domestic product advanced 7.9 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics
said in Beijing on Jan. 18. That compared with the median
economist estimate of 7.8 percent in a Bloomberg News survey and
growth of 7.4 percent in the third quarter.  U.S. Economy  The U.S. economy picked up across much of the country last
month, boosted by auto and home sales, even as the outlook for
unemployment showed few signs of improvement, the Federal
Reserve said Jan. 16 in its Beige Book survey.  U.S. builders broke ground on more houses than forecast in
December. Starts climbed 12.1 percent to a 954,000 annual rate,
exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey and the most since
June 2008, the Commerce Department said on Jan. 17.  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments fell more than forecast last
week. Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased by 37,000 to
335,000 in the week ended Jan. 12, the lowest level since the
period ended Jan. 19, 2008, Labor Department figures showed.  With as little as a month until the U.S. runs out of money
to pay its bills, President  Barack Obama  this week warned
Republicans in Congress not to use the need for a debt-limit
increase to force through new spending cuts.  Geithner Warning  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said so-called
extraordinary measures he’s taking to avoid breaching the debt
ceiling would work only until mid-February to early March and
warned that failure by Congress to raise the limit could
“impose severe economic hardship” on the country.  Since 1960, Congress has raised or revised the debt limit
79 times, including 49 times under Republican presidents,
according to the Treasury Department.  National benchmark indexes rose in 12 of Europe’s 18
western markets.  France ’s CAC 40 Index added 1 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index advanced 0.5 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX
Index slipped 0.2 percent.  Delhaize rallied 13 percent as the brand repositioning at
its Food Lion supermarkets in the U.S. boosted sales volumes.
Group revenue for the three months ended Dec. 31 increased 2.3
percent to 5.76 billion euros ($7.66 billion).  JCDecaux (DEC)  jumped 11 percent. The world’s largest outdoor
advertising company on Jan. 16 announced that its newly formed
joint venture with Interstate Outdoor Advertising signed a 20-
year partnership with the city of  Chicago  that will generate
$700 million in advertising revenue.  Petropavlovsk Gold  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG) , a miner of gold in  Russia , advanced 10
percent after production exceeded its  forecast , and General Nice
Development Ltd., one of the largest importers of coking coal in
China, and Minmetals Cheerglory Ltd., a unit of China Minmetals
Corp. agreed to buy shares in its iron-ore business.  Mediaset SpA (MS)  rallied 7.8 percent as analysts including
those at Berenberg Bank said they expect a recovery in the
advertising market to benefit the broadcaster controlled by
former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi.  TNT slid 34 percent, the most since at least June 2011.
PostNL, which holds a 29.8 percent stake in TNT, tumbled 37
percent. The two stocks posted the worst performances this week
in the  Stoxx 600. (SXXP)  UPS, the world’s biggest package-delivery
company, on Jan. 14 terminated a 5.16 billion-euro bid for TNT
after the European Commission signaled it may block the deal.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  retreated 7.7 percent. The company’s
platinum unit, the world’s largest miner of the metal, said this
week that it may fire as many as 14,000 workers as it idles four
shafts. South African Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu
said the company risks losing mine rights because of the plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 