-- European Stocks Are Little Changed After China GDP Report
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-01-18T17:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/european-stock-futures-rise-as-china-gdp-beats-estimates.html
European stocks were little changed
as  China’s economy  accelerated for the first time in two years
and a gauge of U.S. consumer confidence unexpectedly declined.  Rio Tinto  Group gained 1.8 percent after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said the world’s second-biggest mining company may
buy back shares. Ophir Energy Plc gained 2.5 percent as Nomura
Holdings Inc. raised its recommendation on the stock.  Telenet (TNET) 
Group Holding NV slid 2.6 percent as Liberty Global Inc. said it
won’t reopen its bid for the company.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index retreated 0.1 percent to 287.03
at the close of trading. The gauge lost less than 0.1 percent
this week. The equity benchmark climbed to its highest level
since February 2011 last week amid speculation that U.S.
companies’ earnings would exceed analysts’ estimates.  “The rebound in European equities earlier this month was
not surprising, but it’s too much too soon,” said Pierre Mouton, who helps oversee $6 billion as  fund manager  at Notz
Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “I’m definitely positive on  European (SXXP) 
equities, but the region’s problems have not faded away yet.
There might be some disappointments in earnings releases and
outlooks, hence some volatility.”  China ’s  gross domestic product  advanced 7.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said in Beijing. That compared with the  median
economist estimate  of 7.8 percent in a Bloomberg News survey and
growth of 7.4 percent in the third quarter.  Retail Sales  In the U.K., a report from the  Office for National
Statistics  showed that  retail sales  declined 0.1 percent in
December. The median economist estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey had called for an increase of 0.2 percent.  In the U.S., the preliminary reading of the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan’s index of  consumer confidence 
declined to 71.3 this month from 72.9 in December. Economists in
a Bloomberg survey had  forecast  the sentiment gauge would
increase to 75.  National benchmark indexes declined in 13 of the 18
western-European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 increased 0.4
percent and  France ’s CAC 40 retreated 0.1 percent.  Germany ’s DAX
slid 0.4 percent.  Rio Tinto added 1.8 percent to 3,502.5 pence, its biggest
gain in more than two weeks, after Goldman Sachs said the
commodity producer may return cash to shareholders. The London-
listed mining company might seek goodwill following yesterday’s
announcement that it will write down $14 billion for its
 acquisitions  of Alcan Inc. and Riversdale Mining Ltd., the
brokerage said. Tom Albanese, who oversaw the purchases as chief
executive officer, stepped down.  Ophir Advances  Ophir Energy gained 2.5 percent to 540 pence after Nomura
raised its recommendation on the shares to buy from reduce. The
U.K. oil and gas explorer may make major discoveries in Gabon
and Tanzania, analyst Tom Robinson wrote.  Mediaset SpA (MS)  jumped 5.8 percent to 2.02 euros after
Berenberg Bank raised its price forecast for the shares to 2.60
euros from 1.90 euros and reiterated its buy rating. Analysts
led by Sarah Simon said that earnings will rebound in 2014.  The Italian broadcaster has surged 15 percent over the last
two days, its biggest rally since 2000. Credit Suisse Group AG
upgraded  the stock  to outperform, the equivalent of buy, from
underperform yesterday. Mediaset said in a statement it has no
new information about the share-price movement, following a
request by market regulator Consob.  Spectris Plc surged 8.3 percent to 2,190 pence, its highest
price since at least 1989, after the U.K.’s biggest maker of
production-testing gear said comparable sales rose 4 percent in
the fourth quarter.  Telenet Bid  Telenet slipped 2.6 percent to 35.80 euros after  Liberty
Global (LBTYA)  said it will not reopen its offer of 35 euros a share for
the Belgian cable operator. The media company led by  John Malone 
said in September that it would buy the almost 50 percent of
Telenet that it doesn’t already own for about 2 billion euros.  Santhera Pharmaceuticals Holding AG, the Swiss developer of
an experimental treatment for a rare inherited eye disease,
plunged 22 percent to 3.75 francs, the biggest slump since its
initial public offering in November 2006. A committee of the
European Medicines Agency decided not to approve the Raxone
drug, the company said.  The volume of shares traded on the Stoxx 600 today was 6.4
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  