-- Ex-New Orleans Mayor Nagin Charged With Kickback Scheme
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-01-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/ex-new-orleans-mayor-nagin-indicted-for-bribery-conspiracy-1-.html
Ray Nagin, the former  New Orleans 
mayor who led the city during  Hurricane Katrina , was charged
with taking part in a bribery scheme that U.S. prosecutors said
involved payments in cash, granite and trips to Hawaii.  Nagin, 56, who was mayor from 2002 to 2010, took kickbacks
for giving favorable treatment to city contractors, according to
the 21-count indictment unsealed yesterday in federal court in
New Orleans. He accepted cash and free travel, as well as
inventory for a family business, Stone Age LLC, according to the
indictment.  The former mayor is charged with conspiracy,  money
laundering , bribery, honest services wire fraud and filing false
tax returns for actions allegedly carried out between 2004 and
the present. Nagin faces a maximum 20-year prison sentence if
convicted of the most serious counts against him, the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in New Orleans said in a statement.  “This office will continue its history of investigating
and prosecuting public corruption,” U.S. Attorney Dana Boente
said in the statement.  Nagin’s arraignment is scheduled for Jan. 31 in New Orleans
before U.S. Magistrate Judge Daniel Knowles III, according to
court filings. His lawyer,  Robert Jenkins , has denied the
charges.  Cable Executive  A Cox Communications Inc. executive before his election,
Nagin ran on a platform of ending political patronage and
corruption in city government. He left the mayor’s office
because of term-limits in May 2010. The former mayor now lives
in Frisco,  Texas , according to the prosecutors’ statement.  “This is a sad day for the city of New Orleans,” the
current mayor, Mitch Landrieu, said yesterday in a statement.
“Today’s indictment of former Mayor Ray Nagin alleges serious
violations of the public’s trust,” said Landrieu, whom Nagin
defeated in a run-off election in 2006, as the flood-damaged
city struggled to rebuild from Katrina in August 2005.  One of the contractors named in Nagin’s indictment, Frank Fradella, agreed last year to plead guilty to conspiracy,
according to court filings. Prosecutors accused Fradella of
agreeing to provide “things of value to Public Official ‘A’ in
connection with a series of City of New Orleans transactions,”
according to a June court filing.  ‘Free Granite’  The contractor funneled a $50,000 payoff and “truck loads
of free granite” to the official, who isn’t identified by name,
as well as monthly payments of more than $10,000 after the
official left office in May 2010, according to the filing in
Fradella’s case. Yesterday’s indictment says the granite was a
payoff for Nagin.  Nagin is also accused in the indictment of directing no-bid
work to a businessman in exchange for travel and lodging
expenses in  Hawaii . The same contractor also provided mobile-
phone service to Nagin’s family, the U.S. alleged.  The case is U.S. v. Nagin, 13-cr-11, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans federal court at
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  