-- Mexico Signals Possible Cut as Key Rate Left Unchanged
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-01-18T17:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/mexico-keeps-rate-on-hold-as-inflation-slows-to-target-range.html
Mexico ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate at a record low after annual inflation
slowed within the target range for the first time since May,
saying a rate cut is possible if price growth continues to ease.  Policy makers, led by bank Governor Agustin Carstens, left
the overnight lending rate at 4.5 percent for the 32nd
consecutive meeting, as forecast by all 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Mexico is the only Group of 20 nation to leave rates
unchanged and not step up asset purchases in the past three
years.  Mexico’s real interest rate, which takes account of
inflation, is the lowest of any major rate-setting Latin America
nation at 0.93 percent as policy makers attempt to maintain
economic growth. The central bank said in its decision today
that the outlook on inflation has improved as price pressures
subside, while risks to the nation’s economic growth persist.  “The possibility of a rate cut has risen substantially,”
Sergio Luna, chief economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit,
said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. The central bank
has “removed the restrictive bias from the end of last year,”
said Luna, who sees a 40 percent chance the bank will cut rates
in the first half of this year.  The peso fell 0.6 percent, the most in four weeks, to
12.6613 per dollar at 11:15 a.m. in Mexico City. That would be
the peso’s biggest decline on a closing basis since Dec. 21.
Yields on peso bonds due in 2022 fell 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 5.24 percent, extending their drop this
week to 16 basis points.  Shifting Stance  The central bank’s shift in stance came after inflation
slowed to 3.57 percent last month from 4.18 percent in November
following government moves to increase competition in the
telecom industry, leading America Movil SAB, the wireless
provider controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , to cut fees. The
central bank targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  If a “downward trend in general and core inflation” is
confirmed, “a reduction in the one-day interbank interest rate
may be advisable,” the central bank said in a  statement 
accompanying today’s decision. The rate cut would respond to “a
situation of less economic growth and lower inflation.”  Latin America’s biggest economy after Brazil grew 3.3
percent in the third quarter, down from 4.4 percent in the
previous three months, as business investment in the U.S slowed
on concern Congress would fail to avoid the so-called fiscal
cliff of $600 billion in automatic spending cuts and tax
increases.  Brazil, Mexico  Brazil ’s economic growth will outpace Mexico’s for the
first time in three years in 2013 as fiscal stimulus measures
and lower interest rates boost domestic demand, the World Bank
forecast on Jan. 15.  The Brazilian economy will grow 3.4 percent this year, up
from 0.9 percent in 2012, while Mexico’s expansion slows to 3.3
percent from 4 percent as growth in the U.S., its main export
market, remains sluggish, the Washington-based bank said.  In its previous monetary policy statement released Nov. 30,
the central bank said it could raise rates if fast inflation
persisted, adding that the short-term growth outlook had
“marginally” worsened on the economic environment in the U.S.,
the destination of around 80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  Since then, the U.S. Congress reached a compromise that
averted part of the fiscal cliff. A battle still looms over
raising the $16.4 trillion debt limit, and on automatic spending
reductions, known as sequestration, that were delayed for two
months.  ‘More Dovish’  Banco de Mexico’s “more dovish” tone will fade and the
bank will refrain from rate cuts as U.S. and Mexican
manufacturing activity pick up in the first half of the year,
Italo Lombardi, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in New
York, wrote in a research note.  “We reinforce our view of rates on hold throughout the
year,” Lombardi wrote.  Inflation slowed in November and December as mobile-phone
prices tumbled 39 percent in those months from October after
Slim cut the fees to competitors to avoid a $1 billion fine
imposed by regulators in an antitrust case.  “Mobile telecom prices really came down sharply in late
2012 and that explained most of the improvement” in inflation,
Alonso Cervera, a Latin America economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  Enrique Alvarez, the head of Latin America fixed-income
research at IdeaGlobal, says that while telecommunications
helped inflation slow at the end of the year, rising food and
beverage costs could persist. Food, beverage and tobacco prices
rose 6.11 percent in 2012, according to the statistics agency.  They are “the Achilles Heel” of Mexican inflation,
Alvarez said in a telephone interview from New York. “As you
look further out, there are plentiful potential headwinds that
you’re going to have to face.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  