-- Falcons’ Doubters Drive Point Spread to Conference Title Record
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-18T15:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/falcons-doubters-drive-point-spread-to-conference-title-record.html
The  Atlanta Falcons  have doubters in
Las Vegas, even after their first National Football League
playoff victory in eight years. The top postseason seed is
listed as record-setting underdogs for a game that can send them
to the Super Bowl.  The Falcons have an 8-1 home record and have more wins than
any team in the NFL this season, yet the  San Francisco 49ers  are
4 1/2-point favorites for the Jan. 20 NFC championship game at
the Georgia Dome in Atlanta.  The Falcons are the biggest home underdog of any No. 1 seed
in any round since the NFL playoffs -- now at 12 teams --
expanded to 10 clubs in 1978, according to Las Vegas-based
handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  “It’s very understandable why people don’t believe in the
Falcons,” said Trent Dilfer, a Super Bowl-winning quarterback
who’s now an NFL analyst for ESPN. “They don’t do anything
outside their passing game that just jumps out at you. They also
play a lot of tight games against teams that aren’t top-tier
teams. I just know that sometimes the most powerful things in
football are confidence and momentum, which you can’t
quantify.”  The Falcons last week avoided their fifth consecutive
postseason loss with a 30-28 victory at home over the  Seattle
Seahawks , making a winning field goal in the closing seconds
after blowing a 27-7 fourth-quarter lead.  The 49ers returned to the NFC title game for the second
year in a row by beating the  Green Bay Packers  45-31 as first-
year starter Colin Kaepernick set an NFL record for a
quarterback with 181 rushing yards and two touchdowns. The 49ers
missed a chance for a  Super Bowl  trip last year when Kyle Williams mishandled two punts in their 20-17 overtime loss to
the  New York Giants , the eventual champions.  Bettor Support  “It’s a team that was there last year, probably should
have made it a little further and now they’re back again,”
Johnny Avello, director of race and sports operations at the
Wynn Las Vegas, said in a telephone interview. “The quarterback
seems to give them more movement, more offense.”  While the 49ers are the popular team in the NFC,
Pregame.com founder RJ Bell said the Falcons have been on a
season-long search for respect outside of Atlanta.  “The Falcons were available at the juicy odds of 22 to 1
to win the Super Bowl before the season,” Bell said by e-mail.
“Hardly any bettors in Vegas jumped onboard. The Falcons had
the best record in the NFL throughout the entire season, and
still few bettors jumped on board. Now, the Falcons have the
home field in the NFC championship game and they’re still not
even the favorite.”  Home Underdogs  Since the postseason field went to 12 teams in 1990, only
two other No. 1 seeds have been an underdog at home for a
conference championship game. Both lost.  The most recent was the 2004 Pittsburgh Steelers, who were
3-point underdogs against the  New England Patriots  and were
beaten 41-27. After the 1998 season, the top-seeded 49ers were 2
1/2-point underdogs at home and lost to the Green Bay Packers
23-10.  The Patriots are favored by nine points at home this time
against the  Baltimore Ravens  in the Jan. 20 American Football
Conference title game. In the past 20 years, the NFL’s only
conference championship with a bigger point spread was in 2008,
when the 18-0 Patriots were favored by 14 1/2 points against the
 San Diego Chargers .  While the Patriots are seeking to reach the Super Bowl for
the sixth time during  Tom Brady ’s 12 seasons as a starter,  Joe Flacco  of the Ravens is the only quarterback in the NFL to win
at least one playoff game in each of the last five years.  Ousting Manning  Flacco and the Ravens knocked Peyton Manning out of the
playoffs with a 38-35 double-overtime road win over the  Denver
Broncos  last week.  “The one question with Joe is that he’s been
inconsistent,”  Kurt Warner , a former NFL Most Valuable Player
who’s now an NFL Network analyst, said on a conference call.
“But he seems to be one of those guys who elevates his game
when he needs to.”  The Patriots and Ravens also met in last year’s AFC
championship game, with  New England  winning 23-20 when Baltimore
kicker  Billy Cundiff  missed a 32-yard field goal with 11 seconds
left that would have tied the game.  The Ravens won the previous meeting between the teams
during the regular season, 31-30 in Baltimore on a field goal as
time expired. They bring the NFL’s best postseason road record
(8-5) to Foxborough,  Massachusetts , while the Patriots have the
league’s highest winning percentage (.824) in home playoff
games, with a 14-3 mark.  “It’s not like you beat this team 50-0,” Brady told
reporters. “It’s always a tight game.”  Quarterback Kaepernick  Oddsmakers said one of the biggest reasons the 49ers are
favored on the road is Kaepernick, who replaced  Alex Smith  as
the starting quarterback midway through the season.  Mike Nolan, the Falcons’ defensive coordinator who was the
49ers’ coach from 2005 to 2008, called Kaepernick “a game-
wrecker.”  “He can run with it, he can keep plays alive, he’s going
to deliver down the field,” Nolan said. “Typically from the
pocket, those things don’t happen. All of your scheme breaks
down when a quarterback gets outside the pocket. When a play
gets into six, seven, eight seconds long, all that math that
looked real nice on the board is gone.”  The conference champions will meet in the Super Bowl in New
Orleans on Feb. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  