-- Fed’s Fisher Sees Economic Growth Gradually Rising to 3%
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-01-18T22:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/fed-s-fisher-sees-economic-growth-gradually-rising-to-3-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said U.S. gross domestic product growth
may be “gradually picking up” to 3 percent while inflation
probably will remain below 2 percent.  “We could have GDP growth of 3 percent this year,” Fisher
said today in an interview on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “A Closer Look
with  Arthur Levitt .” He said “a lot of guesswork is involved
no matter how you cut it” because inventory and management
techniques “have changed radically. It’s very hard for our
models to catch some of these complexities.”  Fisher, who is not a voting member of the  Federal Open
Market Committee  this year, has been one of the most outspoken
critics within the Fed of additional  monetary easing  by the
central bank. He said today that the potential costs of asset
purchases aimed at spurring economic growth have begun to
outweigh the benefits as the Fed’s balance sheet approaches $3
trillion.  “The benefits, I think, get less and less as we do more,
and the cost potential rises,” Fisher said. “I have not been
supportive of these recent rounds of QE because I think we’re
pushing on a string.”  Interest rates have remained low because of the Fed’s
unprecedented asset purchases and because investors are seeking
safety in  U.S. government debt  and avoiding European nations.  “Obviously we have suppressed rates to a degree, the other
thing that has helped to suppress rates is the troubles
elsewhere,” Fisher said. “Europe is much uglier than we are,
and we’ve seen enormous inflows into the  United States .”  Inflation Index  The Dallas reserve bank’s trimmed mean annual inflation
rate index probably will increase by about 2 percent over the
next year, in line with the Fed’s inflation target, he said. The
gauge fell to an 18-month low of  1.6 percent  in November.  Fisher, 63, will be a voting member of the policy making
FOMC in 2014. He dissented twice in 2011 against moves to push
down long-term borrowing costs and to keep the benchmark
 interest rate  near zero for a prolonged period. He voted five
times in 2008 in favor of tighter policy.  The Dallas Fed chief has been president of the reserve bank
since 2005. The district includes Texas, northern  Louisiana  and
southern  New Mexico .  Fisher previously was an assistant to Treasury Secretary W.
Michael Blumenthal in the Carter administration and deputy U.S.
trade representative in the Clinton administration with the rank
of ambassador from 1997 to 2001.  The next FOMC gathering is scheduled for Jan. 29-30 in
Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  