-- Fed Officials Saw Start of Subprime Crisis in August 2007
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-01-18T16:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/fed-officials-saw-start-of-subprime-crisis-in-august-2007.html
Federal Reserve officials in August
2007 saw the beginnings of the crisis in subprime mortgages and
concluded that the  U.S. economy  would be able to withstand it,
transcripts from their 2007 meetings show.  “Well-capitalized banks and opportunistic investors will
come in and fill the gap, restoring credit flows to nonfinancial
businesses and to the vast majority of households that can
service their debts,”  Donald Kohn , then vice chairman of the
board, said in Aug. 2007 according to transcripts of the Federal
Open Market Committee meetings released today in Washington.  The transcripts show the committee’s slow grasp on the
enormity of contagion that was to spread throughout global
markets as a result of billions of dollars in low-quality
housing assets that had been securitized into bonds and sold to
banks and investors worldwide.  “The odds are that the market will stabilize,” Bernanke
told the committee in Aug. 2007, according to the transcripts
from that year. “This restrictive effect could come in various
magnitudes. It could be moderate, or it could be more severe,
and we are just going to have to monitor how it adjusts over
time.”  Concern about capital losses from toxic mortgage securities
froze interbank lending markets and prompted runs against major
investment banks. The Fed and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  rescued Bear
Stearns Cos. in March 2008, and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed into bankruptcy that September. Both Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley converted to bank holding
companies to access backup funding from the discount window.  Rate Unchanged  U.S. central bankers kept their benchmark lending rate
unchanged at their regularly scheduled meeting on Aug. 7, 2007,
saying in their statement that “the predominant policy concern
remains the risk that inflation will fail to moderate as
expected.”  Fed officials did have a legitimate inflation worry in
2007. Revised data shows the personal consumption expenditures
price index rising at a 3.5 percent rate for the year ending
that December. The  unemployment rate  hit a low of 4.4 percent in
March and May. Still, financial markets were beginning to
unravel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
1220 or  ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this
story: Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  