-- Finland Bets China Boom Will Ensure Mine Stocks Pay Off
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-01-18T09:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/finland-bets-china-boom-will-ensure-mine-stocks-pay-off.html
Finland  is considering increasing
its holdings in mining companies including  Outotec Oyj (OTE1V)  as the
government’s investment unit bets demand out of  China  will drive
profits.  “What happens in China and in the  emerging markets  overall
certainly has a large effect on the mining industry’s outlook,”
Kari Jaervinen, managing director of Solidium Oy, which handles
the Finnish government’s equity investments, said in an
interview in Helsinki yesterday. “We’ve added ownership in
Outotec throughout last year. It’s very possible that we’ll
continue to grow the position as the market situation allows.”  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, accelerating from 7.4
percent in the prior period. That was more than the 7.8 percent
estimated by economists in a Bloomberg survey. Industrial
production rose an annual 10.3 percent and retail sales in the
world’s second-largest economy grew 15.2 percent in December
from a year ago.  “Looking at the inevitable development of urbanization,
whether in China,  India ,  Indonesia , Malaysia or  Vietnam , it will
lead to the continuation of the super-cycle in the coming
years,” Jaervinen said. The impact on mining will be
“positive.”  Shares in Outotec rose 1.1 percent to 47.33 euros as of
11:24 a.m. in Helsinki. The gain brought the stock to its
highest level since November 2007, based on closing price data
and excluding intra-day moves.  Battered Exporters  Orders from China will help offset the economic decline in
Finland. The Nordic nation fell into a recession in the second
quarter, as the debt crisis in  Europe  battered exporters.  Solidium has spent 26 million euros ($35 million) over the
past six months to raise its stake in Outotec to 8.3 percent
from the 5.5 percent reported on May 4. The investor, which has
a portfolio of 7.3 billion euros, also holds an 11.1 percent
stake in  Metso Oyj (MEO1V) , a Finnish maker of rock crushers.  Outotec makes equipment and provides services for metal
processing, water treatment and energy solutions.  Solidium could also buy shares in Talvivaara Mining Co.
should the Finnish nickel miner issue new stock, Jaervinen said
yesterday. Talvivaara is looking at a range of funding options,
including debt and equity, to refinance debt maturing in May.
It’s struggling with the aftermath of a waste-water leak and
last year’s nickel production missed its targets by as much as
56 percent.  Still Hope  “We haven’t given up hope on Talvivaara,” Jaervinen said.
“Should there be a rights issue, we’d certainly consider an
investment.”  The investor now holds 8.9 percent of Talvivaara shares and
seeks to keep the stake at that level even after a possible
right issue.  “Our view on the industry is still positive in the long
term,” Jaervinen said. “We believe that the industry has very
significant, interesting Finnish companies which could grow to
be global leaders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  