-- Flu Deaths in U.S. Rise Past Epidemic Levels, CDC Says
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-01-18T19:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/flu-related-deaths-rise-above-epidemic-levels-in-the-u-s-.html
The worst U.S. flu season since 2009
intensified last week, killing hundreds more people as the viral
epidemic spread to additional states, health officials said.  About 8.3 percent of all deaths nationwide were due to the
 flu  and pneumonia for the week ended Jan. 12, more than the 7.3
percent level for an epidemic, the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention said today. About 90 percent of those deaths are
people older than age 65, who are being hit particularly hard by
this year’s flu strain, the Atlanta-based agency said.  The flu season, which has now been at epidemic levels for
two straight weeks, may result in 36,000 deaths, said William Schaffner, chairman of the department of preventive medicine at
Vanderbilt University School of Medicine in Nashville,
 Tennessee . Infections will likely persist through February and
March though cases may have peaked in some regions, including
the East Coast and Southeast, he said.  “We are right in the middle,” Schaffner said in a
telephone interview. “Influenza just doesn’t turn off like a
light switch. It may be that in many part of the country it has
plateaued and we are seeing some downturns. But we are
continuing to see patients hospitalized.”  The outbreak is widespread in 48 states with 30 seeing high
levels, the CDC said today. Cases are starting to increase on
the West Coast, which hadn’t been hit as severely as the Midwest
and eastern states, the agency said. From Dec. 3 through Jan.
12, there have been 5,643 deaths from flu and pneumonia, which
is often caused by the flu, the CDC data show.  Finding Vaccines  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Rite Aid Corp. (RAD) , two of the largest
U.S. drugstore chains, said they are working to restock flu
vaccines as a rush of consumers seeking the immunization
depletes supply. Rite Aid said yesterday it obtained an extra
400,000 doses of the vaccine that began arriving in stores this
week. While the Food and Drug Administration confirmed there are
spot shortages, the agency said there isn’t a widespread lack of
supply and people should be able to find flu shots if they go to
multiple drugstores and clinics.  “We cannot increase the actual production of vaccine for
this current flu season,” FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg
said today on a conference call with reporters. “But there is a
lot of reason to believe vaccine is out there and not getting to
the people who need it.”  Vaccine makers are expected to produce 145 million doses
for the current flu season, more than initially projected,
Hamburg said. During a typical season, 1 million doses a day are
given to patients.  Insect Virus  Possibly helping the supply was the FDA’s approval Jan. 16
of one company’s more efficient way to make the flu vaccine,
which typically takes about six months to produce. Protein
Sciences Corp., based in Meriden,  Connecticut , won clearance for
FluBlok, which the closely held company said can be produced in
less than two months by inserting flu genes into an insect virus
and then growing the active protein for the immunization.  The product is intended to help move away from the 50-year-
old technique of growing the vaccine in chicken eggs, a process
that has been blamed for delays in reacting to unanticipated flu
outbreaks.  Health officials were caught off-guard last month when the
flu season started earlier than in past years. Among this
season’s deaths, 29 have been children. There were nine
pediatric deaths in the week ended Jan. 12, a 45 percent
increase from the previous week, according to the CDC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  