-- Ford’s Genk Plant Remains Shut on Strikes at Suppliers
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-01-18T15:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/ford-s-genk-plant-remains-shut-on-strikes-at-suppliers.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s production at its
factory in Genk,  Belgium , remained halted as protests over plans
to shut the site next year showed no sign of letup after three
months of disruption.  An agreement between Ford and unions approved by workers a
week ago failed to result in a resumption of auto assembly after
protesters blocked an adjacent supplier area, cutting off the
flow of parts, said Adrian Schmitz, a spokesman for the
carmaker’s European operations in Cologne,  Germany .  “We have an agreement with unions and are determined to
implement that agreement to restart work at Genk,” Schmitz said
by phone. With the factory closed, Ford is seeking to meet
vehicle demand from existing stocks, he said.  Ford hasn’t shipped a vehicle from Genk since saying Oct.
24 that the plant will shut for good in 2014,  Mark Truby ,
another Ford of  Europe  spokesman, said by phone. Worker walkouts
compounded the effects of scheduled suspensions in carmaking
because of a shrinking European market, Schmitz said. The
permanent shutdown is part of an effort to end losses in Europe
that may exceed $1.5 billion a year in 2012 and 2013.  The carmaker also plans to shut a van plant in Southampton,
 England , this year along with a stamping facility in Dagenham,
on the outskirts of  London . The measures will lead to the loss
of 6,200 jobs, or 13 percent of Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s
 workforce  in Europe.  Carmaking Plans  The agreement with Genk labor leaders was slated to allow
Ford restart production Jan. 9 and ramp up output to 1,000
vehicles a day at the factory, which builds the Mondeo mid-sized
sedan and the S-Max and Galaxy minivans, according to unions.
The accord outlines extra money paid to workers in exchange for
Ford building and shipping vehicles, spokesman Truby said.  Ford is in separate talks with unions about terms for
shuttering the site.  About 100 people, including employees of Ford suppliers,
gathered outside the town hall in Genk yesterday, preventing
three regional union leaders from leaving for several hours, a
spokeswoman for the city’s police said.  The officials were there for meetings with representatives
of four Ford suppliers. The mayor of Genk intervened and defused
the situation without police action. No threats were made, the
spokeswoman said.  Officials from the ACV, ABVV and ACLVB unions didn’t
respond to e-mails or phone messages seeking comment. De Morgen
newspaper  reported  on the incident yesterday on its website  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  