-- Freeport Bids Too Much in Buyouts, Investors Say in Suit
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-01-18T19:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/freeport-bids-too-much-in-buyouts-investors-say-in-suit.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
investors told a judge the company may be paying too much for
 McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR)  and  Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP) ,
countering other claims that shareholders are being
shortchanged.  Lawyers for a retirement fund and a bank asked Delaware
Chancery Court Judge John W. Noble to put on hold a series of
lawsuits in which investors are seeking more money for their
shares, pending an investigation into whether Freeport’s bids,
totaling more than $10 billion, are excessive.  “We believe that there is a credible basis to believe that
Freeport is dramatically overpaying for its acquisitions” in
order “to improperly benefit Freeport’s chairman and certain
other insiders,” lawyer  Michael J. Barry  wrote in a letter to
Noble today.  Barry represents shareholders the City of Roseville
Employees’ Retirement System and Amalgamated Bank, trustee for a
group of LongView investment funds.  In one of the earlier complaints, an investor seeking to
sue on behalf of all McMoRan common stockholders contends that
the oil and natural gas company’s board violated its duty to get
a better price in the $3.4 billion transaction.  He asked a judge to stop the deal under its present terms
and to award damages and legal fees.  Plains Investor  In another suit, an investor contends Plains is worth more
than Freeport’s offer of about $6.9 billion in cash and stock.  Freeport, based in Phoenix, said in a statement Dec. 5 that
it would buy New Orleans-based McMoRan for $14.75 a share and
1.15 units of a royalty trust. Freeport separately is buying
Houston-based Plains for $25 in cash and 0.6531 Freeport share
for each Plains share, according to court papers.  Eric Kinneberg , a Freeport spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on Barry’s letter.  Freeport fell 0.9 percent to $33.78 at 2:43 p.m. in  New
York . The shares earlier dropped as much as 1.3 percent.  The initial cases are Krieger v. McMoRan, CA8091, and Rice
v. Plains, CA8090, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  