-- Frigid Weather Set to Punch Northeast Fuel Users as January Ends
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-01-18T14:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/frigid-weather-set-to-punch-northeast-fuel-users-as-january-ends.html
A blast of Arctic air is expected to
descend on the Midwest and East Coast next week, sending
temperatures plummeting from  Chicago  to New York and boosting
demand for heating fuels.  Temperatures in the Northeast are expected to drop 8
degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 Celsius) next week before returning to
seasonal levels in about 10 days, according to Matt Rogers,
president of the Commodity Weather Group LLC. That may be just a
lull before the next cold blast arrives, said Rogers from his
office in Bethesda, Maryland.  “Overall, it seems as though the pattern must reload for
another round of stronger cold weather arriving toward the
middle to the end of the final week in January,” Rogers said in
a note to clients.  The threat of cold weather in high-population areas can
boost energy markets as consumers burn more natural gas and
heating oil to stay warm. Temperatures may drop to a low of 0
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 18 Celsius) in Chicago on Jan. 22 and
13 degrees in New York two days later, according to  MDA Weather
Services  in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  Temperatures in the Northeast and eastern  Canada  are
expected to fall 8 to 14 degrees below normal from Jan. 23 to
27, according to MDA.  Heating Fuels  Forecasts for below-normal temperatures have helped send
the price of natural gas to a six-week high. Gas for delivery in
February rose 2.5 cents to $3.519 per million British thermal
units at 9:12 a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange after
closing yesterday at the highest level since Dec. 7. Trading
volume was down 6 percent from the 100-day average.  Prices are up 42 percent from a year ago, when the
contiguous 48 U.S. states were in the middle of their warmest
winter on record.  Heating oil for next-month delivery is heading for the
first weekly gain since the end of December. The fuel, which is
used mostly in the Northeast and is also affected by the price
of crude oil, rose 1.14 cents to $3.0326 a gallon in New York
with volume up 40 percent from the 100-day average.  The forecasts for the end of January and early February
were in line with a warning from the U.S.  Climate Prediction
Center  last week that said the eastern part of the country was
heading to a blast of frigid weather.  The normal average temperature in New York on Jan. 23 is 36
degrees. In Boston it's 29, in Chicago it's 24, and in
Philadelphia it's 33, according to MDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Austin at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  