-- FTC, DuPont, Microsoft, TJX, RIM: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/ftc-dupont-microsoft-tjx-rim-intellectual-property.html
Patent dispute settlements including
so-called pay-for-delay deals between branded and generic drug
companies jumped to 40 in the year ended in September from 28
the previous year, the  U.S. Federal Trade Commission  said.  The agreements, the most since the agency began collecting
data in 2003, involved 31 different brand-name drugs with
combined sales of more than $8.3 billion, the FTC said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  Of the 40 settlements, almost half involved agreements by
the branded firm not to market a so-called authentic generic
that would compete with the generic company’s product, the FTC
said.  “This year’s report makes it clear that the problem of
pay-for-delay is getting worse, not better,” FTC Chairman  Jon
Leibowitz  said in the statement. “Until this issue is resolved,
we will all suffer the consequences of delayed generic entry --
higher prices for consumers, businesses and the U.S. taxpayer.”  By delaying the entry of cheaper generics into the market,
pay-for-delay deals cost Americans $3.5 billion annually, the
FTC said.  The FTC has challenged several patent settlements in court,
contending that they are anticompetitive and violate U.S.
antitrust laws. One case, involving a generic testosterone
treatment called  Androgel , is pending before the U.S. Supreme
Court. The agency also has supported legislation in Congress
that would restrict pay-for-delay settlements.  DuPont Shareholder Sues Managers Over $1 Billion Court Loss  A  DuPont Co. (DD)  shareholder sued company directors and Chief
Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman , claiming mismanagement of the
seed business led to a $1 billion judgment that threatens to
wipe out the company’s cash.  In a complaint filed Jan. 16 in U.S. District Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware , shareholder Robert Zomolosky asked a judge
to force Kullman and the board to pay any damages stemming from
DuPont’s loss of a patent lawsuit involving  Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s weed
killer, Roundup. The jury award, the third-biggest last year,
could grow to $3 billion depending on future legal rulings,
according to the lawsuit.  The patent case grew out of the company’s effort to compete
with Monsanto’s  Roundup Ready  crop business, which held 90
percent of the market for soybean and cotton seeds as of 2008,
according to the lawsuit. Because DuPont’s research wasn’t
producing results, company managers used Monsanto’s technology
to try to create seeds that could resist Roundup, a key
requirement for farmers, Zomolosky claims.  The Wilmington-based company plans to appeal the jury’s
verdict, according to the complaint, and has asked the judge to
overturn the award.  DuPont’s General Counsel Thomas L. Sager said in an e-mail
statement that the company handled the Monsanto patent case
appropriately.  “We are confident in the appropriateness of all our
actions and the points raised in this lawsuit are simply a
repetition of those we have repeatedly addressed in the course
of the Monsanto litigation,” Sager said.  During that patent lawsuit, U.S. District Judge Richard Webber ruled that DuPont “knowingly perpetrated a fraud against
the court,” by lying in court and to investors about its right
to use Monsanto’s seed technology.  The shareholder complaint, filed on behalf of the company
as a so-called derivative lawsuit, seeks a  jury trial , corporate
governance improvements and unspecified damages from directors.  The case is Zomolosky v. Kullman, 13-cv-00094, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Microsoft Seeks Patent on ‘Inconspicuous Mode’ Phone Technology  Microsoft Corp., (MSFT)  the world’s largest  software company , has
applied for a U.S. patent on a technology that could make the
use of a mobile phone less conspicuous in dark rooms.  Application  20130012270 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Jan. 10, is for what the
Redmond, Washington-based company calls “inconspicuous mode for
mobile devices.”  According to the application, the technology permits the
adjustment of brightness and contrast to be less conspicuous,
either by an adjustment initiated by the user or by sensors
detecting environmental conditions.  Microsoft says that with mobile devices now having the
capacity to perform many different functions, sometimes they are
used in settings where others may be disturbed by a bright
display, such as a bedroom, boardroom or movie theater. Also,
the home screen of the device, when operating in the
inconspicuous mode, would be less obtrusive than when in normal
operation.  The software company applied for this patent in July 2011.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  T.J. Maxx, Harris Tweed Authority Settle Trademark Dispute  TJX Cos. (TJX) ’ T.J. Maxx unit and the authority governing the
use of the “Harris Tweed” standards have settled a trademark
dispute, the Scotsman newspaper  reported .  The Harris Tweed Authority complained that the Framingham,
Massachusetts-based off-price retailer promoted and sold
garments that weren’t made in accord with the standards required
for the use of the mark, according to the Scotsman.  Regulations for the use of the name require that the fabric
be hand-woven of pure virgin wool dyed and spun in Scotland’s
Outer Hebrides and woven in at-home workshops by island
residents, the newspaper reported.  Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed, according to the
Scotsman.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Pennsylvanian Pleads Guilty to Hockey Broadcast Infringement  A  Pennsylvania  resident pleaded guilty to criminal
copyright infringement related to broadcasts of hockey games.  Michael Moore , 45, of  Chadds Ford , Pennsylvania, admitted
copying and selling recordings of hockey games and other hockey-
related material. He did so through his www.HDHockey.Tv,
according to a  statement  from the U.S. Attorney’s office in
Philadelphia.  He sold the DVDs for $19.99, and also operated a website --
www.BroadStreetBully.com -- through which subscribers could
download video clips of copyrighted television broadcasts of
hockey games and related material. This included broadcasts of
an Olympic Games hockey match and National Hockey League games.  The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation raided Moore’s house in
2008 and seized more than 2,000 unauthorized videotapes, as well
as commercial-grade equipment for copying the tapes to DVDs. He
also had equipment to record satellite broadcasts and to copy
multiple DVDs at a time, according to the statement.  Moore is set for sentencing April 15, according to court
filings. He faces a potential maximum sentence of five years in
prison, a fine of as much as $250,000, and has agreed to forfeit
some of the seized items and $155,612 in proceeds from his
business.  The case is U.S.A. v. Moore, 2:11-cr-00666, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Advanced Micro Devices Sues Ex-Employees Over Trade Secrets  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , a maker of processors for
personal computers, accused ex-employees in a lawsuit of taking
“sensitive” company documents when they went to work for
competing chipmaker  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)   The former employees transferred more than 100,000
electronic files pertaining to its graphics business in the days
before they left the company, Advanced Micro said in a filing
dated Jan. 14 in federal court in  Boston . The employees also
recruited other AMD workers to leave, the company claims.  “This is an extraordinary case of trade secret
transfer/misappropriation and strategic employee solicitation,”
Sunnyvale, California-based Advanced Micro said in the
complaint.  The documents included confidential information on
licensing agreements with significant customers, proposed
strategies concerning licensing and technical information about
new products and processes the company is developing, the
company said.  U.S. District Judge Timothy Hillman issued a temporary
restraining order requiring the defendants to preserve all
copies of AMD materials and computer  storage devices  and to
refrain from disclosing confidential AMD information and
attempting to hire any AMD employees.  Peter Mee, a lawyer for the four defendants, said he had no
immediate comment. Bob Sherbin, a spokesman for Santa Clara,
California-based  Nvidia , said the company doesn’t comment on
pending litigation. Nvidia isn’t a defendant in the case.  Three of the former employees -- Robert Feldstein, Manoo
Desai and Nicolas Kociuk -- transferred secret files to storage
devices, according to the complaint. Feldstein, Desai and a
fourth defendant, Richard Hagen, violated agreements not to
solicit other employees for a period of time after leaving the
company, AMD claims.  They all worked at AMD’s site in Boxborough,  Massachusetts ,
according to the complaint.  Advanced Micro asked for monetary damages and a permanent
injunction to prevent disclosures.  The case is Advanced Micro Devices v. Feldstein, 13-40007,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  RIM Patents Anti-Espionage Technology for Mobile Devices  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the Canadian maker of the
BlackBerry mobile device, received a U.S. patent that may make
it more difficult to use cameras in mobile phones to commit
industrial espionage.  According to patent 8,346,072, the technology would make it
impossible to shoot a photo using the mobile device unless the
device has been focused steadily on the subject for a
predetermined length of time.  The aim of this restriction is to make the process of
taking the photo more conspicuous and thus more readily
detected. Additionally, boundaries and restrictions could be
communicated to the device as part of an information technology
policy, according to the patent.  RIM said that while consumers enjoy using cameras embedded
in their mobile phones and other hand-held devices, “many
corporations and governmental agencies are wary of small
portable cameras.”  Portable cameras can be used to take photos of confidential
documents, which may then be stored and transmitted wirelessly,
and confidential material “can be improperly divulged and/or
used for improper purposes,” according to the patent. The
“ubiquitous presence of handheld communication devices in the
business environment makes it difficult for businesses to
control their use,” RIM said.  Embedded cameras could be configured so they couldn’t shoot
photos in specific geographic areas, or they wouldn’t take and
record a photo unless they had been held in a steady position
for as long as 10 seconds, according to the patent. RIM says
that with these time limits, surveillance procedures would be
more likely to identify unauthorized photos.  The Canadian company applied for the patent in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 