-- GE Leads Dow Jones as Industrial Units Boost Earnings
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-01-18T21:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/ge-profit-tops-estimates-as-industrial-units-post-earnings-gains.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  led the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to its highest level since 2007 after
fourth-quarter profit topped analysts’ estimates, with across-
the-board growth in industrial businesses surpassing gains in
finance.  Adjusted profit from continuing operations rose 13 percent
to $4.67 billion, or 44 cents a share, the company said in a
statement, topping an  average  projection from analysts of 43
cents. GE climbed 3.5 percent to $22.04 in New York, making it
the biggest advancer among the 30 Dow Jones companies.  Emerging-market expansion fueled the aviation and health-
care divisions, which drove industrial performance and helped
build a record $210 billion order backlog. That validated Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt ’s strategy of focusing on
manufacturing, valued more highly by investors, while shrinking
the finance unit after the global credit crisis.  “You see the slow but steady transition to industrial
leadership to drive GE’s growth,”  Nick Heymann , an analyst at
William Blair & Co. in New York, said in an interview on
Bloomberg TV with  Tom Keene . “Order growth, while it slowed,
didn’t stall and you continue to see better pricing.”  Earnings at GE Aviation, the world’s largest maker of  jet
engines , climbed 22 percent to $1.04 billion, and industrial
profit advanced 12 percent. At  GE Capital , the finance unit that
specializes in lending to small and medium-size companies,
profit increased 9 percent to $1.81 billion in the quarter.  GE Capital  Immelt continued to make progress on his pledge to shrink
GE Capital’s balance sheet and reduce its contribution to
earnings. The unit’s ending net investment, a measure of its
assets, declined to  $419 billion  as of Dec. 31, an 18 percent
decline since January 2009.  Including pension expenses and other items, GE’s fourth-
quarter net income climbed 8 percent to $4.01 billion, or 38
cents a share, from $3.73 billion, or 35 cents, a year earlier.  Total sales climbed 4 percent to $39.3 billion in the
quarter. Excluding the effects of foreign exchange and declining
demand for  wind turbines  with an expiring U.S. tax credit,
industrial orders rose 7 percent, the company said.  GE overcame a year-end slump that deepened as President
 Barack Obama  and his opponents in Congress negotiated to avoid
$600 billion of spending cuts and tax increases. Organic
industrial sales growth of 4 percent slipped from an 8 percent
gain in the third quarter.  Profit Margins  Profit margins at GE’s industrial businesses, which also
include oil and gas equipment, widened 1.2 percentage points in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier, GE said in the
statement. They expanded 0.3 percentage point overall in 2012,
matching the company’s forecast.  GE’s advance today compared with a 0.4 percent rise for the
Dow Jones index and a 0.3 percent gain for the  Standard & Poor’s
500 . The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company rose 17.2 percent
last year, outpacing a 7.3 advance for the Dow Jones.  Full-year profit advanced 8 percent to $16.1 billion, or
$1.52 per share, on $147.4 billion in sales, which were little
changed.  Industrial revenues in  emerging markets  climbed 11 percent
last year, GE said. In China, sales increased  19 percent  to
about $6 billion, lead by the health-care unit’s 22 percent
advance.  “We’ve got a very good business presence in China and it’s
really performing well for us,” Chief Financial Officer  Keith Sherin  said in a telephone interview today. “We’re moving west
and developing new products in China for that market, and it
shows in the results we’re seeing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 