-- Genel to Continue Iraq Oil Exports as Revenue to Exceed Plans
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-01-18T08:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/genel-to-continue-iraq-oil-exports-as-revenue-to-exceed-plans.html
Genel Energy Plc (GENL) , the largest oil
producer in Iraq’s northern Kurdish region, said it will
continue sending crude exports to Turkey and that revenue will
exceed guidance.  The company will report sales of about $330 million for
2012, ahead of expectations for revenue of as much as $300
million, the company said in a statement in London today. The
company’s production was 44,500 barrels of oil a day last year.  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , the former  BP Plc (BP/) 
CEO, this month started sending trucks of crude to Turkey after
a dispute between the Kurdistan Regional Government and Iraq’s
central government in  Baghdad  over  tax revenue  delayed export
payments. Kurdish authorities will receive Turkish refined
products in exchange and pay Genel, Hayward said last week.  “We are today exporting oil to Turkey in accordance with
the authority granted to us by the Kurdistan Regional
Government,” Hayward said in the statement. The company is
“well placed to take advantage of regional opportunities for a
broader export market as the political situation continues to
develop.”  Genel shares rose 20 pence, or 2.6 percent, to 800 pence in
London trading.  Export volumes to Turkey are currently “small” and will
grow to about 20,000 barrels a day over the next six to eight
weeks, the company said. The company received partial payment of
$132 million on Dec. 3 for previous exports, it said.  Capital expenditure was $230 million last year, funded from
 cash flow  from Kurdistan operations, it said. Expenditure this
year will jump to $400 million to $500 million and the company
has about $1 billion of cash on its books.  Genel plans to drill three wells in Kurdistan in the first
half of 2013, targeting more than 750 million barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  