-- German Stocks Little Changed as China Exits Slowdown
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-01-18T09:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/german-stocks-little-changed-as-china-exits-slowdown.html
German stocks  were little changed
near a two-week high as growth in  China , the world’s second
biggest economy, accelerated for the first time in two years.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  advanced 1.2 percent as a gauge of banking
shares in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose.  Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s
largest retailer, fell 2 percent as Credit Suisse AG downgraded
its recommendation on the stock.  The DAX rose less than 0.1 percent to 7,738.48 at 9:58 a.m.
in  Frankfurt , heading for a weekly gain of 0.3 percent. The
gauge has added 1.6 percent so far this year as U.S. lawmakers
agreed on a compromise budget to prevent most scheduled tax
increases and delay spending cuts. The broader HDAX Index rose
0.1 percent today.  “China’s economic growth is definitely a boost for
Germany,” Christian Schmidt, a market analyst at Helaba
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in Frankfurt, said in a telephone
interview. “But at the moment we are just seeing range
trading.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the  DAX (DAX)  was 3.7
percent higher than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Growth in China accelerated as government efforts to revive
demand drove a rebound in industrial output, retail sales and
the housing market.  China GDP  Gross domestic product  rose 7.9 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics
said in Beijing today. That compared with the 7.8 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey and 7.4 percent in the
previous period. Industrial output in December rose a more-than-
expected 10.3 percent and fixed-asset investment for the year
gained 20.6 percent.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest lender, climbed 1.2
percent to 1.68 euros.  Aixtron SE, a technology company that manufactures
equipment for the semiconductor industry, jumped 1.7 percent to
10.49 euros. The stock has surged 18 percent so far this year.  Japanese semiconductor-equipment makers also rallied after
Intel Corp., the world’s biggest chipmaker, and Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp., the largest producer of
contract producer chips, announced plans to raise capital
spending this year.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second biggest utility, fell 0.9 percent
to 29.07 euros as a gauge of utility companies dropped the most
among the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  Metro lost 2 percent to 23.02 euros as Credit Suisse
downgraded the stock to underperform, the equivalent of a sell
rating, from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  