-- German Bonds Rise as ECB’s Coeure Damps Bets of Loan Repayments
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-01-18T16:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/german-bunds-decline-before-release-of-spanish-bad-loans-data.html
German bonds rose, with 10-year
yields falling from the highest in three months, as a European
Central Bank official downplayed the effect on overnight
interbank interest rates if banks repay loans to the ECB.  Spanish and Italian securities also rallied as Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure told journalists the ECB doesn’t have
a view on whether banks should start early repayments of the
three-year funds borrowed under the so-called Longer-Term
Refinancing Operations. European bond yields surged during the
previous two days amid speculation demand for funds to repay the
ECB would drive up the cost of money and leave less available
for short-term loans.  “We saw some panic selling this morning but expectations
that rates are going to go up have been tempered” by Coeure’s
comments, said Owen Callan, an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
 London . “Core bund yields are moving lower on the back of this
story and Spain and  Italy  are following them.”  The yield on  Germany ’s 10-year bund fell five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.56 percent at 4:38 p.m. in London
after climbing to 1.64 percent, the highest since Oct. 18. The
1.5 percent security due in February 2023 rose 0.485, or 4.85
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,328) face amount, to 99.495. The
securities have dropped three basis points this week.  Spanish  10-year yields  declined five basis points to 5.08
percent, while those on similar-maturity Italian bonds fell four
basis points to 4.16 percent.  Credit Crunch  The ECB flooded financial markets with more than 1 trillion
euros in three-year loans starting in December 2011 as a credit
crunch threatened  Europe ’s financial system. With signs of a
recovery now underway, investors are testing the ECB’s attitude
to loan repayments.  “We don’t have a normative or prescriptive view on whether
banks should repay the LTRO” early, Coeure said at an event in
Paris. “Will it have a big impact on the money market? I don’t
expect it to have a big impact.”  Banks aren’t likely to make large repayments on their ECB
loans, said Soeren Moerch, head of government-bond trading at
Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen.  “I don’t think banks will return more than 250 billion
euros back over the coming months,” he said. “Peripheral banks
still have huge benefits from ECB funding, compared to market
funding. The market is still nervous about the LTRO repayment,
but I think it may have overreacted.”  Euribor Futures  The implied yield on euro interbank offered rate futures
expiring in December dropped two basis points to 0.44 percent,
signaling traders were reducing bets on higher borrowing costs.  Portuguese 10-year bonds rose for a third week after Prime
Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  signaled the nation plans to return
to the  debt market  as it doesn’t want a second rescue program.  The yield on 10-year the nation’s  bonds  dropped 16 basis
points today to 6.13 percent, leaving it eight basis points
lower this week.  Volatility on Greek bonds was the highest in euro-region
markets today, followed by those of France and Germany,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit default swaps.  German bonds handed investors a loss of 1.5 percent this
month through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Spanish securities returned 1.4 percent and Italy’s
advanced 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  