-- Glaxo Accord Said to Spur Lawyer Fight Over Fees
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-01-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/glaxo-accord-said-to-spur-lawyer-fight-over-fees.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s settlement of
lawsuits over its Avandia drug triggered a challenge from nine
law firms to a bid by lead attorneys for almost three-quarters
of a $143 million fee fund, including one seeking about $2,700
per hour, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Attorneys suing on behalf of users of the diabetes
medicine, who said it caused heart attacks and strokes, filed
objections to the fee request in Philadelphia federal court,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
matter isn’t public. The contested amount is sought by a court-
appointed group of plaintiffs’ lawyers picked to recommend how
much attorneys in the cases should be paid, the people said.  Six law firms on that fee committee asked for 71 percent of
the fund set aside by U.S. District Judge Cynthia Rufe for the
Avandia cases before her, according to the people. The committee
lawyers put the most time and money into efforts to collect
evidence that Glaxo allegedly mishandled warnings about
Avandia’s risks, Dianne Nast, a lawyer who led the group, said
in an interview.  “These were the folks who were the most active in working
on the case, so it’s only natural they are in line for a larger
share of the fees,” Nast said. The fee fund, between 6 and 7
percent of the total settlement, according to the people, means
the total accord may be worth more than $2 billion. As a result,
the average payout for the 40,000 users of Avandia involved in
the litigation would be about $50,000 -- before legal fees.  Highest Fee  Joseph Zonies , a Denver-based attorney who served as one of
the lead lawyers in the Avandia cases before Rufe, is slated to
collect more than $24.4 million, the highest recommended fee,
according to the people. Zonies put in more than 18,000 hours of
work on the case and his fee would amount to $1,341-an-hour for
his efforts, the people said. He declined to comment on the fee
recommendation. Another lawyer,  Vance Andrus , is seeking almost
double that per-hour amount, according to the people.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers in product liability cases work on a
contingency fee basis. While per-hour calculations may be much
higher than attorneys who regularly work at an hourly rate,
lawyers who work on contingency are often forced to spend
millions of dollars of their own money to pursue a case and
aren’t guaranteed payment in the end, unless they win or settle.  Benedict Morelli, a New York-based lawyer who according to
the court’s docket objected to the fee recommendations, and
Samuel Lanham, a Maine attorney who also objected, didn’t return
calls for comment on their objections.  Under Seal  While Rufe ordered objections to be filed under seal, it’s
probable that plaintiffs’ lawyers unhappy with their proposed
cut of the fees are demanding more money, said Carl Tobias, who
teaches product-liability law at the University of Richmond in
 Virginia  and follows such consolidated cases, also known as
multidistrict litigations, or MDLs.  “MDL fee fights are common and the infighting among
plaintiffs’ lawyers over that money can get fierce,” Tobias
said in an interview.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, has said it paid more
than $3 billion to settle federal and state government claims
that it illegally marketed Avandia, once the world’s best-
selling diabetes pill, and other medications.  Glaxo officials haven’t stated what the drugmaker spent to
settle the Avandia lawsuits before Rufe, and in state courts,
alleging executives failed to properly warn consumers about the
drug’s risks, Bernadette King, a spokeswoman for London-based
Glaxo said in interview.  Stop Promoting  Glaxo said in 2010 it would stop promoting Avandia
worldwide after regulators said the treatment would be withdrawn
from the market in  Europe  and  sales  would be limited in the U.S.
because of studies linking the drug to increased risks of heart
attacks.  Sales fell 43 percent in the wake of the restrictions,
Glaxo said.  In MDL cases, suits filed in federal courts across the U.S.
are consolidated before a single judge to make pretrial
information exchanges more efficient. Often, lawyers use the
case consolidations to resolve suits, Tobias said.  The group of lawyers tapped by a judge to lead an MDL’s
evidence-gathering efforts are entitled to receive a “common-
benefit fee” for their work, said Howard Erichson, a Fordham
University law professor who teaches classes on complex
litigation and product-liability law.  MDL Evidence  Lawyers who use MDL-collected evidence to help achieve a
settlement in their cases are required to hand over a percentage
of their fee, Erichson said. Those monies are used to compensate
MDL attorneys for work on the case that benefits everyone in the
litigation, Erichson said.  “MDL cases can involve an enormous amounts of work and the
benefits to all claimants of that work can also be enormous,”
Erichson said in an interview. That’s why MDL fee funds can run
into the hundreds of millions of dollars, he added.  Lawyers who settled MDL cases against  Merck & Co. (MRK)  over the
company’s withdrawn painkiller Vioxx split more than $315
million in fees in 2011.  U.S. District Judge  Eldon Fallon  in New Orleans also had to
evaluate objections to fee allocations in that case, which
featured at least 16 trials in federal and state courts. No  Avandia cases went to trial in either federal or state
court. Rufe approved the fee fund in October.  The lawyers on the fee-advisory group headed by Nast
included Zonies, Andrus, Thomas Cartmell,  Bryan Aylstock ,
 Stephen Corr ,  Paul Kiesel  and  Bill Robins III , according to
court records. Cartmell, Andrus and Kiesel declined to comment
on the fee recommendations. Aylstock, Corr and Robins didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  Lead Counsel  Andrus, a Denver-based lawyer who served as lead counsel in
the Avandia case at one point, is slated to receive more than
$17 million for his work on the consolidated cases, according to
the people familiar with the matter. He put in more than 6,300
hours of work on the case and his fee would provide a payment of
almost $2,700-an-hour, the people said.  Cartmell , a Kansas City, Missouri-based lawyer who also
served as a lead lawyer on the federal cases, is in line to
receive more than $18.5 million, according to the people. He
racked up more than 12,000 hours of work on the case and his
recommended fee would amount to $1,496-an-hour, the people said.  Aylstock, whose law practice is based in  Pensacola ,
 Florida , also served in a lead role in the Avandia MDL. The
group recommended he receive more than $18.5 million in fees,
the people said. Aylstock worked more than 8,400 hours on the
MDL case and his fee is equal to $2,211-an-hour, according to
the people.  Leadership Group  Robins, of Santa Fe, New Mexico, another member of the
leadership group, stands to receive at least $11.4 million for
more than 11,300 hours of work, according to the people familiar
with the matter. That is a rate of $1,008-an-hour. Kiesel, a
Beverly Hills, California-based lawyer who also served as one of
the MDL’s lead counsels, stands to make more than $5.5 million
in fees for more than 3,600 hours of work, or $1,521-an-hour,
the people said.  Nast, based in Philadelphia, would receive more than $6.7
million for more than 4,100 hours of work, according to the
people. That works out to a $1,631-an-hour rate.  Nine law firms have objected to the Avandia MDL fees,
according to the court docket. While their filings are sealed,
objectors are probably arguing that Zonies, Cartmel and other
MDL leaders are “double dipping” on fees, Tobias said.  Those lawyers received their fees for settling their
Avandia cases consolidated before Rufe and now are getting a
second fee for their work on the MDL, Tobias said.  ‘Biggest Fees’  “It sort of feels like a conflict of interest to have the
folks on the fee committee recommending that they get the
biggest fees,” Tobias said. “Then again, they are most likely
the ones who have done the most work on the MDL cases, so they
may be deserving of those fees.”  Rufe appointed lawyer  Bruce Merenstein  of Philadelphia to
serve as a special master to review the fee-advisory committee’s
recommendations and the objections to it, public court filings
state. He’s being paid $475-an-hour for his work, according to
the filings.  Merenstein said in an interview that he’s been talking with
lawyers who’ve complained about their split of the fees.  “We are moving toward resolving the objections,” he
added.  Rufe has the final say on any fee award, Erichson said.
Questions about self-dealing by an MDL fee committee can raise
“legitimate concerns,” the law professor said.  The consolidated case is In re Avandia Marketing, Sales
Practices and Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net  and;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 