-- Goldpoly to Buy China Developer to Boost Demand for Solar Cells
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-01-18T20:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/goldpoly-to-buy-china-developer-to-boost-demand-for-solar-cells.html
Goldpoly New Energy Holdings Ltd. (686) , a
Hong Kong-based solar-cell maker, agreed to buy a Chinese power-
plant developer partly owned by  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  to
create an outlet for its products.  Goldpoly already owns 7.83 percent of  China  Merchants New
Energy Holdings Ltd. and will pay HK$2.12 billion ($273 million)
in stock and convertible bonds for the rest, according to a
filing with the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday. Ease Soar, a
GCL-Poly unit that currently owns 17.4 percent of China
Merchants, will own 13 percent of Goldpoly when the deal is
complete, becoming its second-largest owner.  The deal is the latest consolidation in China’s solar-
manufacturing industry, where margins and profits have been
crushed by a 61 percent  decline  in panel prices over the past
two years, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. Other
solar producers including  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  are expanding efforts
to build power plants that use their panels.  Goldpoly is “concerned” about falling panel prices and
“has been looking for opportunities to expand its business
downstream,” according to the filing. The acquisition “will
increase the internal consumption of the solar cells produced.”  China Merchants has units that assemble solar panels and
develop photovoltaic projects, and expects to build or acquire
about 2.2 gigawatts of solar farms through 2015. The company is
incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and most of its
operations are in China. The companies didn’t say in the
statement when the sale will close.  Goldpoly shares will resume trading Jan. 21. They were at
HK$1.27 when they were suspended Nov. 23 “pending the release
of this announcement,” according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  