-- Gulf Coast Fuels Fall as Motiva Startup to Boost Supplies
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-01-18T19:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/gulf-coast-fuels-fall-as-motiva-startup-to-boost-supplies.html
U.S.  Gulf Coast  fuels weakened on
speculation the restart of a crude unit at Motiva Enterprises
LLC’s  Port Arthur, Texas, refinery  will add to regional
supplies.  Motiva is restarting the 325,000-barrel-a-day crude unit at
its Port Arthur facility after finishing pipe repairs, two
people familiar with operations said. The pipestill is expected
to be processing as much as 200,000 barrels a day by the end of
the weekend, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  The unit will more than double the plant’s crude-processing
capacity, adding to gasoline and distillate production along the
U.S. Gulf Coast, where inventories of those products grew by a
combined 4.66 million barrels last week, government data show.  Refiners in PADD 3 processed 7.76 million barrels a day of
crude and other feedstocks, the highest seasonal level in weekly
U.S. Energy Information Administration data back to 1990.  Refinery operations may remain at a high level as
 Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and Enbridge Inc.’s Seaway
pipeline carries less-expensive oil from the U.S. Midwest to
plants along the coast.  Conventional gasoline  on the Gulf Coast retreated 1.25
cents to 16.5 cents below futures on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  at 11:50 a.m., a third consecutive decline.
 Reformulated gasoline  slipped 0.75 cent to a 16-cent discount,
while ultra-low-sulfur diesel in the region fell  0.13 cent  to
trade at parity with heating oil futures.  “Seaway is open, Motiva is back up and running, and
margins will be good enough for refiners to produce more,” Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions, LLC, said in a
phone interview from Houston. “There won’t be a supply issue
with distillates.”  Stockpiles of distillates, including  diesel fuel  and
heating oil, jumped 2.29 million barrels to 39.3 million in PADD
3, the highest level since Aug. 24, according to the EIA, a
division of the Energy Department. Inventories of gasoline
gained 2.38 million barrels to 83.8 million last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  