-- Liberty Global Won’t Boost Its 2 Billion-Euro Telenet Bid
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2013-01-18T10:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/liberty-global-won-t-boost-telenet-bid-will-buy-shares-tendered.html
Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  said it won’t
reopen its 2 billion-euro ($2.6 billion) bid for  Belgium ’s
 Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET)  and will accept the shares already
tendered at the  offer price  of 35 euros apiece.  Telenet fell as much as 6.4 percent to 34.41 euros. The
stock, which rose 21 percent last year, traded at 35.46 euros,
or 3.6 percent lower, at 10:57 a.m. local time.  Liberty Global , the international cable provider controlled
by billionaire  John Malone , made the announcement in a notice in
De Tijd and L’Echo newspapers today. Shareholders with 8.4
percent of outstanding shares accepted the tender, which expired
on Jan. 11, bringing Liberty’s stake in the Belgian  cable
operator  to 58.4 percent, the company said Jan. 14.  “We want to stress that Liberty Global can anytime
increase its offer,” Emmanuel Carlier, an analyst at ING Groep
NV in Brussels who recommends investors buy the stock, said
today in a note. “The longer it takes however, the higher the
chance that Liberty Global will not raise its bid but try to
gain control via a share buyback.”  Telenet, which has 2.1 million cable-TV subscribers, said
on Jan. 9 that revenue increased 8.2 percent to about 1.49
billion euros in 2012. The company will publish full results on
Feb. 27.  The “limited” amount of shareholders tendering at 35
euros “comes as no surprise” given Telenet’s growth potential,
 James Ratcliffe , an analyst at Barclays Plc, said in a note to
clients earlier this week.  Belgium is Liberty Global’s  second-biggest market , after
Germany. Liberty acquired German cable providers Kabel Baden-
Wuerttemberg and Unitymedia in the past three years.  Liberty Global, based in Englewood, Colorado, distributes
TV, Internet and phone services to 19.6 million customers,
making it the second-largest cable company in the world, behind
Comcast Corp. It has 18.4 million European subscribers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  