-- Confidence Falls as U.S. Payroll Tax Rise Hits: Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-01-18T21:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-decreased-to-71-3-in-january.html
Confidence among American households
unexpectedly fell to a one-year low in January, as higher
payroll taxes create a risk that the biggest part of the economy
will slow in early 2013.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 index  of consumer sentiment dropped to 71.3, the lowest since
December 2011, from 72.9 the prior month. The gauge was
projected to rise to 75, according to the  median  forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  A boost to confidence in the second half of 2012 from a
pickup in job growth has evaporated, just as lawmakers in
 Washington  remain divided about raising the debt ceiling and
cutting  government spending . Discounters including  Target Corp. (TGT) 
are trying to lure shoppers with year-round promotions as
households brace for smaller paychecks due to a two percentage-
point increase in payroll taxes.  “The economy is growing at a tepid rate, employment is
growing at a tepid rate and  consumer confidence  is measly,”
said Kevin Harris, chief economist at Informa Global Markets in
 New York , whose projection of 72 for the Michigan index was
closest in the Bloomberg survey. “Everybody took a two
percentage-point pay cut and that is not going to help.”  Stocks closed at a five-year high as investors weighed
prospects for a short-term increase in the debt ceiling. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3 percent to 1,485.98 at
the close in New York.  State Employment  Another report today showed that New York and New Jersey
led payroll gains in December as the states rebounded from
superstorm Sandy. Of the 27 states showing stronger employment,
New York was at the top of the pack with a 35,100 increase,
followed by  New Jersey  with 30,200, according to the Labor
Department.  The dominance of the two states indicates that the rebound
from the storm that crippled the Northeast in late October and
early November had some effect on December U.S. payroll gains.
Job growth averaged 160,000 a month in the second half of 2012,
up from 146,000 in the first six months.  Elsewhere,  China ’s economic growth accelerated for the
first time in two years as government efforts to revive demand
drove a rebound in industrial output, retail sales and the
housing market.  Estimates for the Michigan confidence measure ranged from
70 to 84, according to the Bloomberg survey. The index averaged
64.2 during the last recession and 89 in the five years before
the economic slump that began in December 2007 and ended in June
2009.  Bloomberg Measure  The figures are in line with Bloomberg’s Consumer Comfort
Index, which dropped last week to a three-month low, reflecting
a fourth straight decline in the buying-climate gauge.  The Michigan index of expectations six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
dropped to 62.7, the lowest since November 2011, from 63.8 the
prior month. Household purchases account for about 70 percent of
the economy.  The measure of  current conditions , which reflects
Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and whether
it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars, decreased
to a six-month low of 84.8, from 87 in December.  While Americans took comfort in resolution of the so-called
fiscal cliff, in which lawmakers averted income-tax increases on
99 percent of households, payroll taxes went up. As part of its
budget agreement on Jan. 1, Congress agreed to let the tax, used
to pay for Social Security benefits, return to its 2010 level of
6.2 percent from 4.2 percent. That reduces the paycheck by about
$83 a month for someone who earns $50,000.  Payroll Tax  “Things like increases in payroll taxes are not a positive
from my perspective,”  Howard Levine , chief executive officer at
 Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) , the second-largest U.S. dollar-store
chain, said on a Jan. 3 earnings call. “What I think happens is
there will be some further impact to our core customer as a
result of some of these tax increases. But I also think we’re
positioned very nicely for a trade-down customer.”  Target, the second-largest U.S. discount retailer, said
earlier this month that it plans to match the prices year-round
charged by e-commerce sites of Amazon.com Inc., Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., Best Buy Co. and Toys “R” Us Inc. in a bid to boost
sales.  The new policy combines Target’s holiday-season price
policies into one year-round and easy-to-use system, the
Minneapolis-based company said in a statement. Target’s stores
will also match the prices of goods found on its own website, it
said.  Gasoline Prices  Still, consumers have benefited from rising home values and
cheaper fuel prices. A gallon of regular  gasoline  at the pump
averaged $3.29 nationally yesterday, down from a recent high of
$3.87 in September, according to AAA, the biggest U.S. motoring
group.  Automobile sales, meantime, have been a bright spot as
consumers take advantage of cheaper borrowing costs. Motor
vehicle purchases are expected to grow in 2013 by 3 percent,  Jim Lentz , U.S. sales chief for Tokyo-based  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , said
at an industry conference this week.  “The  U.S. economy  is expected to continue to improve,”
Lentz said. “Consumers appear to be more upbeat about the
business and labor conditions.”  Debt Limit  The debt limit has been periodically raised since its
creation in 1917, when Congress and President  Woodrow Wilson 
authorized the Treasury to issue long-term securities to help
finance entry into World War I. Since 1960, Congress has raised
or revised the limit 79 times, including 49 times under
Republican presidents, according to the Treasury Department,
noting the U.S. never has defaulted on its obligations.  The last time Congress fought over raising the ceiling,
Obama signed an increase on Aug. 2, 2011, the day that Treasury
warned U.S. borrowing authority would expire.  Standard & Poor’s 
cut the nation’s credit rating.  Still, U.S. Treasury bond investors -- who most directly
bear the risk of any government default -- haven’t shown alarm
over political fights ultimately resolved in Washington. Yields
on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes declined after Aug. 5, 2011, the
day of the S&P downgrade, and continued to fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  