-- ICIS Fires Gas-Pricer Freedman After Manipulation Claims
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-01-18T15:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/icis-heren-fires-gas-pricer-freedman-after-manipulation-claims.html
ICIS Heren, the energy price-
reporting agency, fired Seth Freedman two months after he went
to regulators and the press with allegations of attempted price
manipulation by natural-gas traders.  Freedman’s contract as a reporter in London was terminated
on Dec. 28, according to a letter obtained by  Bloomberg News  
that was sent to him by Graeme Roy, Reed Business Information
Ltd.’s human resources director. Freedman was offered three 
other roles within the company on the same terms and 
conditions, which he turned down, RBI said today in a statement.  He was fired because it was no longer practicable for him
to work within the price-reporting team after covertly recording
them and making derogatory comments about them in the press,
according to the letter. Paul Abrahams, a London-based spokesman
for RBI, declined to give any further details when contacted by
telephone. ICIS Heren is a unit of RBI.  “It beggars belief that RBI have deigned to dismiss the
very person who raised issues of alleged wrongdoing,” Shah
Qureshi, Freedman’s legal representative at Bindmans LLP in
 London , said today by phone. “It appears he has been made a
sacrificial lamb as a result of this.” Freedman’s dismissal is
subject to an appeal, Qureshi said.  Suspected Manipulation  The U.K.’s $480 billion gas market came under the spotlight
in October after Freedman reported deals he suspected were being
done below prevailing levels. Freedman, a former broker at
Insinger de Beaufort NV and Eden Financial Ltd., notified his
managers of what he suspected was an attempt to manipulate
assessments on Sept. 28.  ICIS reported the case to the Office of the Gas and
Electricity Markets, saying there had been “a series of deals
done below the prevailing market trend,” according to a Nov. 12
statement.  Ofgem, as the regulator is known, said in a Nov. 13
statement it was investigating. The Financial Services
Authority, or FSA, also said Nov. 12 it had received the
information.  “Traders run roughshod over unsuspecting, under-trained
journalists, leaning on them to influence the final prices in
their favor,” Freedman, 32, who joined ICIS in January, said in
a Nov. 16 phone interview. “Traders tried to influence me
regularly.”  Reporters working for ICIS receive “extensive training”
and are equipped to challenge any information they receive,
Abrahams said Nov. 29.  The  International Energy Agency , OPEC and the International
Organization of Securities Commissions said in an October 2011
report that “there is a risk that a price-reporting agency’s
benchmark price can be manipulated by the submission of false
prices or by over- or understating the volume transacted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  