-- Life Technologies Names Deutsche, Moelis for Review
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-01-18T12:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/life-technologies-names-deutsche-moelis-for-review.html
Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  hired
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Moelis & Co. to assist in a strategic
review that the Financial Post newspaper said could end in the
gene-sequencing company’s sale.  Life Technologies hired the firms to seek an acquirer for
the company, the Canadian newspaper reported late yesterday.
Deutsche Bank and Moelis have approached at least four private-
equity firms, including  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , KKR & Co., TPG
and Carlyle Investment Management LLC, the newspaper
said. Life Technologies, based in Carlsbad,  California , has a
market value of $9.5 billion.  “The board of directors has not decided on any specific
course of action,” Life Technologies said in a PRNewswire
statement today after the report. The board hired the firms “to
assist in its annual strategic review,” the company said.  Gene-sequencing companies such as Life Technologies and
 Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  are attractive as takeover targets because their
technology can be used to provide a blueprint of a person’s DNA,
information that may eventually be used to diagnose disease,
identify the risks of certain conditions or better target
medicines.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of cancer
drugs, failed last year in a hostile bid for Illumina.  Strategic Review  Life Technologies began a strategic review last fall and
hopes to reach a deal by February, the newspaper said, citing
documents it had seen and people familiar with the process. Life
Technologies may fetch $65 to $75 a share, the Financial Post
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Life Technologies rose 9.2 percent to $60 at 7:10 a.m.  New
York  time in trading before U.S. exchanges opened.  Roche backed away from a $6.7 billion bid for Illumina last
year after investors asked for a higher offer. Roche doesn’t
comment on rumors or speculation, Daniel Grotzky, a spokesman
for the Basel, Switzerland-based company, said by e-mail in
response to a question about Life Technologies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  