-- Life Technologies Said to Be in Takeover Talks
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/life-technologies-said-to-be-in-takeover-talks.html
Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , a maker of
DNA-sequencing equipment and laboratory materials, is in
discussions with private-equity firms and health-care companies
about a potential sale of the company, according to people
familiar with the process.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  are among four private-
equity firms weighing bids, said two people, who asked not to be
named because the discussions are confidential. Health-care
companies also have expressed interest in a takeover and
potential suitors have until late January to submit offers, the
people said. Life said yesterday it had hired Deutsche Bank AG
and Moelis & Co. to assist in a strategic review of the company.  The Carlsbad, California-based company has a current market
value of about $10.5 billion, after shares rose yesterday to
their highest-ever price based on takeover speculation. Life may
sell for about $13 billion, with a buyout fund writing an equity
check of $4 billion to $5 billion for the deal, one of the
people said.  Life’s “valuation has been relatively depressed,”  Ross Muken , an analyst with ISI Group, said in a telephone interview.
“They’ve had an ongoing battle in terms of messaging,
positioning and capital deployment.”  Life  trades  at about 15 times estimated earnings, compared
with about 33 times for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , its competitor in DNA-
sequencing machines.  Highest Value  Life’s shares rose 11 percent to $60.79 at the close
yesterday in New York, the biggest single-day gain in almost
four years and the highest value since shares started trading
publicly in February 1999.  The company’s board retained Deutsche Bank and Moelis “to
assist in its annual strategic review,” Life said in a
statement. “The board of directors has not decided on any
specific course of action.”  The company’s statement implies Life has “potentially
received an offer from an acquirer, is contemplating a LBO or is
potentially in the process of shopping the company for a
strategic buyer,” William Quirk, an analyst with Piper Jaffray
& Co., wrote in a research note. He cited  Roche (ROG)  Holding AG,
 Thermo Fisher  Scientific Inc. and  General Electric Co. (GE)  as
potential strategic buyers.  Gene-sequencing companies such as Life and San Diego-based
Illumina are attractive takeover targets because their
technology can be used to provide a blueprint of a person’s DNA,
information that may eventually be used to diagnose disease,
identify the risks of certain conditions or better target
medicines.  Roche Failure  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, failed
last year in a hostile bid for Illumina. Life is more
diversified than Illumina, with “slow-growth research
consumables” dominating its portfolio, said Quirk. For that
reason, “we believe an acquirer interested in the faster-
growing next-gen sequencing business has better options.”  ISI Group’s Muken put the possibility of a leveraged buyout
at 10 percent, pegging the price at $55 to $65 a share. He said
a sale to a strategic buyer, such as a large pharmaceutical firm
or equipment company like  Danaher Corp. (DHR) , may have a 40 percent
chance of occurring, at $60 to $70 a share.  Roche backed away from its $6.7 billion bid for Illumina
last year after investors asked for a higher offer. Roche
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation, Daniel Grotzky, a
spokesman for the Basel, Switzerland-based company, said by e-
mail in response to a question about Life.  Seth Martin , a spokesman for GE, said the company doesn’t
comment on rumors or speculation. Ron O’Brien, for Thermo
Fisher, declined to comment. Matt McGrew, chief of  investor
relations  for Danaher, couldn’t be reached for comment.  A spokeswoman at Moelis and a Deutsche Bank official
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  