-- Life Technologies Gains on Buyout Speculation
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-01-18T21:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/life-technologies-gains-on-buyout-speculation.html
Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , a maker of
DNA-sequencing equipment and laboratory materials, rose to its
highest-ever value after the hiring of strategic advisers
sparked speculation the company may be sold.  Life Technologies jumped 11 percent to $60.79 at 4 p.m. New
York time, its highest price since the shares began trading in
February 1999. The move was the biggest since April 2009. The
Carlsbad, California-based company has increased 29 percent in
the past 12 months.  Deutsche Bank AG and Moelis & Co. were retained “to assist
in its annual strategic review,” Life said in a statement
today. The Financial Post reported the hiring late yesterday,
saying the advisers have approached at least four private-equity
firms as potential buyers.  “While price talk is apparently in the $65 to $75 range,
our initial analysis suggests an LBO transaction valuing Life’s
equity in the $50 to $60 range is more realistic in present
market conditions,” Jon Wood, an analyst with Jefferies & Co.,
wrote in a research note today, referring to the potential for a
leveraged buyout.  Wood cited the company’s “resilient and predictable
revenue profile, highly scalable operating model, and
extraordinary capital efficiency” as attractive, while noting
“risk appetite to be at present more limited than that observed
prior to the 2008/2009 financial crisis.”  Attractive Targets  Gene-sequencing companies such as Life and San Diego-based
 Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  are attractive takeover targets because their
technology can be used to provide a blueprint of a person’s DNA,
information that may eventually be used to diagnose disease,
identify the risks of certain conditions or better target
medicines.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of cancer
drugs, failed last year in a hostile bid for Illumina.  Life began a strategic review last fall and hopes to reach
a deal by the middle of February, the newspaper said, citing
documents it had seen and people familiar with the process. The
approached private equity firms include  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and
 KKR & Co. (KKR) , the newspaper reported.  Roche backed away from a $6.7 billion bid for Illumina last
year after investors asked for a higher offer. Roche doesn’t
comment on rumors or speculation, Daniel Grotzky, a spokesman
for the Basel, Switzerland-based company, said by e-mail in
response to a question about Life.  A spokeswoman at Moelis declined to comment and a Deutsche
Bank official couldn’t immediately comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  