-- IMF Says Greece Will Need More Money, Has Elevated Risks
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2013-01-18T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/imf-says-greece-will-need-more-money-has-elevated-risks.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
warned that risks to Greece’s economic reform plan remain high
and said European nations will need to provide more funds and
debt relief to the country.  “The program is moving in the right direction, but the
challenges ahead remain enormous,” the IMF staff wrote in a
 report  on Greece released today. “Timely delivery of Greece’s
European partners’ undertakings on debt relief and financing is
crucial for program success.”  The fund agreed to disburse 3.2 billion euros ($4.3
billion) to Greece earlier this week after the government
approved new budget cuts, received more favorable aid terms from
European nations and conducted a bond buyback. The fund
estimates that the country will need extra funding of as much as
9.5 billion euros for 2015-2016, and see “good prospects”
Europeans will finance it if the country implements policies
attached to the current loan.  While the IMF agreed to a plan by Greece and Europeans to
lower the Mediterranean nation’s debt to 124 percent of gross
domestic product in 2020, from a peak of 179 percent this year,
measures announced so far won’t accomplish all the decline. The
IMF has assurances from Europeans that they will provide debt
relief equaling 1.4 percent of GDP next year and take additional
measures in 2015, according to the report.  With another pledge to take debt “substantially below”
110 percent of GDP by 2022, “time will tell what the full
commitment will require,” staff wrote. It recommended a
combination of haircuts and near-zero  interest rates  on
bilateral loans and lower borrowing costs from the European
bailout fund.  Efforts Welcome  The report welcomed Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s
efforts after political turmoil forced a suspension in
international aid.  Still, the fund urged him to tackle “entrenched vested
interests” that have meant little progress on curbing  tax
evasion  and maintained a “bloated and unproductive state
sector.”  While the coalition government, formed in June, has
delivered “important upfront changes in some areas, it still
needs to demonstrate political resolve in some of the most
difficult ones,” the report said.  Samaras’s New Democracy party forged an alliance with
socialist Pasok and Democratic Left in June, promising to
implement reforms to keep the country in the 17-nation euro
region. The 13.5 billion euros of new cuts and tax measures for
the next two years have led to the government’s majority in
parliament falling to 163 of 300 seats from the 179 seats it
held in June.  Asset Sales  The report said the government needed to match “results
with rhetoric” on selling state assets, which will be used to
pay down debt, and said the performance so far was “extremely
disappointing.”  Continued progress will be “a constant challenge that will
require intensive and uninterrupted efforts,” the IMF said in
its report. “Although euro area politicians now appear to have
pulled behind keeping  Greece  in the euro, implementation risks
will remain elevated in Greece for some time, until the
political situation becomes less fragile.”  The economy will shrink 4.2 percent this year after
contracting 6 percent last year, the IMF projected in the
report, which also forecast 0.6 percent growth in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  