-- IMF Extends Poland Credit Line to $33.8 Billion
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-01-18T22:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/imf-extends-poland-credit-line-to-33-8-billion.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
today said it renewed and boosted  Poland ’s flexible  credit line 
to about $33.8 billion as the country seeks to insure against
external risks.  The two-year line replaces the country’s $30 billion
facility that expires this month and has never been used. Poland
plans to treat the new line as precautionary, according to an e-
mailed statement from the IMF.  Poland indicated in September it was in talks with the IMF
to renew the guarantee, which was first granted in May 2009 and
renewed in January 2011.  “Poland has very strong economic fundamentals and policy
frameworks,” IMF’s First Deputy Managing Director  David Lipton 
said in the statement. “A credible inflation targeting regime
has helped contain inflation, while the flexible  exchange rate 
has played a key stabilizing role, and the sound financial
supervisory framework has contributed to a well-capitalized,
liquid, and profitable banking system.”  While Poland became the only European Union economy to
avoid recession since the global credit crisis in 2008, it is
feeling the impact of a downturn in the euro area, its biggest
export market. Growth will slow to 1.75 percent this year from
2.25 percent as the economy is “ feeling the effects of
headwinds from Europe,” IMF said in  the statement  concluding
its staff visit in Warsaw on Nov. 16.  The fund singled out providing support for the economy as
the key “policy challenge” as the government’s pledge to
reduce the  budget deficit  to around 3 percent of output reduces
its leeway to boost spending.  A new credit line “can play a critical role in preserving
investor confidence, supporting macroeconomic policies, and
providing a significant insurance against adverse external
risks,” Lipton said in an e-mailed statement Dec. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net 
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net 
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  