-- India Stock Futures Advance as Diesel Rise to Lure Funds
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-01-18T02:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/india-stock-futures-advance-as-diesel-rise-to-lure-funds.html
Indian stock-index futures gained
after the Indian government allowed oil companies to raise
diesel prices, and as overseas investors extended record
purchases of domestic shares.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures  for January delivery rose
0.3 percent to 6,071.5 at 10:49 a.m. in  Singapore . The
underlying S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index added 0.6 percent to 6,039.20
yesterday. The BSE  India  Sensitive Index, or Sensex, gained 0.7
percent to 19,964.03. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR
Index of U.S.-traded shares rose 0.8 percent.  India’s move to raise diesel prices steps up efforts to
curb fuel subsidies and tackle the widest budget gap among the
largest emerging markets. The decision extends an economic-
policy overhaul since September that seeks to stem slowing
economic growth, avert a credit-rating downgrade and spur
investment. Overseas funds have bought a net $2.18 billion of
Indian shares this year, a record for the period.  “Consistent buying of local stocks by overseas investors
is boosting market sentiment,” Deven Choksey, managing director
at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. Ltd. in Mumbai, said by
phone yesterday. “Most overseas flows coming from exchange-
traded funds are on expectation the government will be able to
phase out subsidies on petroleum products.”  State Refiners  Indian state-run refiner  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  raised diesel
prices nationwide by 0.45 rupee a liter starting today. Bharat
Petroleum Corp. and Hindustan Petroleum Corp. have previously
followed Indian Oil price increases.  State refiners  lost  738.2 billion rupees ($13.6 billion)
from selling diesel below cost in the nine months ended Dec. 31.
India plans to trim its subsidy bill for food, fuel and
fertilizer to 1.9 trillion rupees, or 2 percent of gross
domestic product, this financial year.  Standard and Poor’s and Fitch Ratings lowered their
outlooks on India’s credit rating, currently at the lowest
investment-grade level, to negative in 2012 and said the
nation’s large fiscal deficits and debt are constraining
ratings.  Overseas funds  were buyers of  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks for a 14th
straight day on Jan. 16, purchasing a net $203.2 million of
shares, according to data from the market regulator.  Shares of  Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL) , India’s biggest motorcycle
maker, may be active after the company reported yesterday net
income of 4.88 billion rupees for the quarter ended Dec. 31,
lower than the median estimate of 5.93 billion rupees in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  One out of four Sensex companies that have reported
earnings for the quarter ended Dec. 31 has trailed forecasts.
That compares with 40 percent of index companies in the three
months ended September, the same as for the June quarter, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Sensex has gained 2.7 percent this year and  trades  at
15.8 times estimated earnings, the highest reading since
February. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index is valued at 10.9
times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  