-- Indian Refiners Surge After Diesel Price Increase: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-01-18T05:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/indian-refiners-surge-after-diesel-price-increase-mumbai-mover.html
Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s
biggest refiner, surged the most in three and a half years in
Mumbai trading and led an advance in refinery stocks after
diesel prices were raised for the first time in four months.  Indian Oil  rose  as much as 19 percent, the most since May
2009, and traded 11 percent higher at 350.65 rupees as of 10:21
a.m. Bharat Petroleum Corp. increased as much as 7.8 percent and
Hindustan Petroleum Corp. jumped 10 percent. The benchmark
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  climbed 0.6 percent.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government yesterday
allowed state-run refiners to fix diesel prices on their own for
the first time in more than a decade, seeking to narrow an
expanding subsidy bill and  budget deficit . Refiners including
Indian Oil are planning monthly increases in prices of the fuel,
two people with direct knowledge of the matter said yesterday.
State refiners lost 9.6 rupees ($0.18) a liter on sales of
diesel before today’s increase.  “It’s one of the best steps the government has taken in
recent months and it will have far-reaching impact on the
economy,” said Deven Choksey, managing director at Mumbai-based
KR Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. “Increasing fuel prices
will clear the path to reducing subsidies, which is one of the
main reasons behind our high fiscal and current account
deficits.”  Indian Oil raised diesel prices by 0.50 rupees a liter in
 New Delhi  effective today, according to the company’s website.
The refiner also said it increased the price of domestic non-
subsidized cooking gas by 46.50 rupees a bottle.  Cooking Gas  The government increased the number of subsidized cooking
gas bottles per household to nine from six annually, according
to the statement. Gasoline price was reduced by 0.25 rupees a
liter. Diesel to bulk users, including the railways, will be
sold at market rates, increasing prices by 9.25 rupees.  Higher diesel prices will help reduce annual revenue losses
on fuel sales at the three state-run refiners by 150 billion
rupees, Indian Oil said yesterday. The increased number of
subsidized LPG bottles will raise the bill by 100 billion
rupees.  The refiners lost 124.85 trillion rupees on below cost fuel
sales in the nine months ended Dec. 31, according to oil
ministry data. This includes 738.2 billion rupees on diesel.  The refiners sell diesel, cooking gas and kerosene at fixed
prices. They are partly compensated by cash payments from the
government and discounts on crude oil by state explorers
including  Oil and Natural Gas Corp.  and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  Gasoline
is deregulated.  Explorers Surge  ONGC surged as much as 13 percent to 355 rupees. Oil  India 
gained as much as 20 percent.  India plans to trim its subsidy bill for food, fuel and
fertilizer to 1.9 trillion rupees, or 2 percent of gross
domestic product, in the year ending March 31. The state
refiners lost 738.2 billion rupees from selling diesel below
cost in the nine months ended Dec. 31.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram aims to cut the
budget deficit to 5.3 percent of GDP this financial year from
5.8 percent in the previous period. India forecasts  Asia ’s
third-largest economy will expand at 5.7 percent this financial
year, the weakest pace in a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  