-- Iron-Ore Swaps Surge on China Rail Spending as Data Show Growth
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-01-18T09:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/iron-ore-swaps-surge-on-china-rail-spending-as-data-show-growth.html
Iron-ore  swaps gained the most in
two weeks as China, the world’s largest importer of the
commodity used to make steel, said it would build railroads and
economic data showed the first acceleration in two years.  February contracts rose 2.9 percent to $143 a dry metric
ton, up from $139 at the close yesterday, according to SSY
Futures Ltd. That’s heading for the biggest gain since Jan. 3,
based on data from SGX AsiaClear, the largest clearer of the
derivatives.  China will spend 650 billion yuan ($105 billion) this year
on railroad construction, more than last year’s 631 billion
yuan, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. The
world’s second-largest economy expanded 7.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said in Beijing today, topping the 7.8 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “Physical traders are getting more buying interest coming
in,” Mark Richardson, head of SSY Futures, said by e-mail
today, citing prices bid at $143 a ton. “That coupled with the
positive macro data has helped traders to believe that this
recent strength can continue as we approach Chinese New Year.”  Ore with 62 percent iron content at the Chinese port of
Tianjin was unchanged at $145.40 a ton yesterday after dropping
8.3 percent in five sessions, according to The Steel Index Ltd.
The  global benchmark  collapsed to a three-year low in September
as  China  slowed for seven consecutive quarters. It since
rebounded 68 percent.  Steel Output  China’s industrial output in December rose a stronger-than-
expected 10.3 percent, and fixed-asset investment for the year
gained 20.6 percent, data showed today. Steel output increased
to 716.5 million tons in 2012, the National Bureau of Statistics
said today. Production in December climbed 7.7 percent from a
year earlier to 57.66 million tons, the bureau said.  China will import 770 million tons of iron ore in 2013, 3.6
percent more than last year, Li Xinchuang, president of the
China Metallurgical Industry Planning & Research Institute, said
at a conference sponsored by Bloomberg Industries in  New York  on
Jan. 16. The country buys more of the ore than the rest of the
world combined, according to figures from Clarkson Plc, the
world’s largest shipbroker.  Daily crude-steel output rose 2.3 percent in the first 10
days of January to 1.944 million tons, Xinhua said yesterday,
citing the China Iron & Steel Association. Futures for steel
reinforcement bars used in construction rose 1.2 percent to
3,970  yuan  on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.  “Miners have been willing to step back from the market and
let bids come to them,” Richard Lee, an iron-ore and freight
trader at Barclays Plc in  London , said by e-mail. “The swaps
overextended, and with some broadly in line-but-positive Chinese
numbers, the spot and swaps are converging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  