-- IRS Lacks Power to License Tax Preparers, Judge Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-01-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/irs-lacks-power-to-license-tax-preparers-u-s-judge-rules-1-.html
The U.S. Internal Revenue Service
doesn’t have the authority to license hundreds of thousands of
tax preparers, a federal judge ruled, throwing out a regulatory
system that the agency was introducing in stages.  The licensing rules are invalid because the IRS stretched a
law allowing it to regulate people who “advise and assist
persons in presenting their cases” before the agency to cover
tax preparers, U.S. District Judge James Boasberg in Washington
wrote in a decision yesterday.  “Filing a tax return would never, in normal usage, be
described as ‘presenting a case’,” Boasberg said.  The IRS regulations, which had been scheduled to take
effect over the next several years, required tax-return
preparers to pass a competency test and meet continuing
education requirements.  “Congress never gave the IRS the power to license tax
preparers,” said Scott Bullock, senior attorney with the
Institute for Justice, a nonprofit advocacy group in Arlington,
 Virginia  that brought the case. “If the IRS wants this to
happen, it has to come from Congress.”  The IRS retains the authority to investigate and prosecute
tax preparers for violations under existing laws, Bullock said.  Dean Patterson, an IRS spokesman, declined to comment on
the ruling.  The rule would have covered “600,000 to 700,000 new tax-
return preparers who were previously unregulated at the federal
level,” Boasberg wrote, citing an agency estimate.  Attorneys, certified public accountants and enrolled agents
were exempt from the new requirements.  The case is Loving v. Internal Revenue Service, 12-
cv-00385, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in  Washington  at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  