-- Italian Marines Charged With Killing Fishermen Face Indian Trial
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-01-18T07:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/italian-marines-charged-with-killing-fishermen-face-indian-trial.html
Two Italian marines charged with
killing fishermen they suspected of being pirates can be put on
trial in India, the country’s top court ruled, a defeat for
defense lawyers who argued any prosecution should take place
overseas.  Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone will be tried in
a specially convened court in New Delhi, according to a ruling
by a three-judge panel led by Chief Justice Altamas Kabir. The
Indian government will be consulted on the setting up of the
court, the judges said.  The prosecution of the marines is the first attempt to hold
armed maritime guards accountable for the deaths of innocent
people in an anti-piracy operation. The marines were acting as
guards on the Italian-flagged  Enrica Lexie  tanker as it sailed
to  Egypt  from  Singapore , a route that includes crossing the
Indian Ocean, where Somali pirates operate.  Ajeesh Pink, 19, and the fishing boat’s first mate, who
used a single name, Valantine, 44, were killed in waters off the
southern state of Kerala. When the shooting started in the
middle of the afternoon on Feb. 15, most of the 11-member crew
were asleep in preparation for a night of fishing for seer fish,
J. Freddy, the boat’s 30-year-old owner, said in an interview
with Bloomberg published in November.  The marines’ arrest triggered a diplomatic rift between the
Italian and Indian governments as they presented different
versions of the attack. Italy has argued that the men shot the
two fishermen in self-defense and that the marines should be
tried in their own country because the incident occurred in
international waters outside of  India ’s jurisdiction.  Ferrari SpA, the Italian sports car maker, even weighed in,
having two of its cars carry the flag of the Italian navy during
the Oct. 28 Formula One grand-prix race in New Delhi.  Maritime piracy costs the global economy an estimated $7
billion in 2011, according to the Oceans Beyond Piracy, a
project of the Broomfield, Colorado-based nonprofit One Earth
Future Foundation. Somali pirates’ attacks on shipping plunged
last year to the lowest since at least 2007 as increased use of
armed guards and naval intervention deterred incidents, the
London-based International Maritime Bureau said Jan. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  