-- Italy’s Self-Defined Populist Shuns TV for Stump Before Vote
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-01-18T09:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/italy-s-self-declared-populist-shuns-tv-for-stump-as-vote-nears.html
Italy ’s Beppe Grillo, the comic and
self-described populist with more public support than Prime
Minister  Mario Monti , is lampooning his rivals for favoring
television interviews over rallies before elections next month.  “Television doesn’t have a memory,” Grillo said to about
2,000 supporters at a rally yesterday in Chieti, a town of about
50,000 people in central Italy. “You can go on and say
everything and the opposite of everything. That’s why they don’t
come to town squares or go online. Because in town squares they
challenge you and they can smell” lies, he said.  Grillo, on a 73-stop tour of Italy, is bucking the trend in
an election campaign that has been carried out primarily in TV
studios. He is paying the price with a slide in opinion polls
since October. Frontrunner Pier Luigi Bersani extended his lead
in November and December through televised primary debates,
while billionaire former premier  Silvio Berlusconi  has ridden a
monthlong media blitz to gains in most polls.  “You want to see me on TV?” Grillo said to a spectator
during the hour-and-a-half appearance. “I want to see you out
of your house” and participating in public life, Grillo said.  Support for Grillo’s 5 Star Movement fell to 16.8 percent
from 22 percent at the end of October, according to an SWG
Institute poll released today. Bersani’s Democratic Party was at
28.8 percent from 25.5 percent in October, while Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty group advanced to 17.7 percent from 15 percent
over the same period, according to the SWG poll.  School Teacher  Grillo was joined on stage in Chieti by 5 Star’s
parliamentary candidates, newcomers to national politics who
included a lawyer and a school teacher-mother of five. Grillo
himself isn’t running for parliament and has said he won’t
accept leadership of government in the event of victory.  “I don’t think they can get enough votes to win,”
Maurizio Di Cioccio, a 57-year-old emergency-room doctor from
Pratola Peligna near Chieti, said after the rally. “But I do
think they can fill a role in pushing for a new way of
governing.” Di Cioccio plans to vote for 5 Star after casting
his ballot in the last parliamentary elections in 2008 for the
 Democratic Party .  Grillo drew  laughs  and cheers in Chieti when he denounced
political corruption, called for municipalities to halt the
privatization of utilities and suggested the Treasury should
unilaterally lower interest payments on its debt to 0.00001
percent for the next five years. He decried the government’s
focus on expansion in gross domestic product, saying 99 percent
of gains go to the wealthy and that the priority should instead
be ensuring social equity.  Populist  “And they say, ‘You’re a populist,’” said Grillo. “Tell
them what I am,” he said, prompting the crowd for a third time
to call out, “Populist.”  Bersani leads the race at the head of a coalition with 33
percent support, followed by a federation of parties led by
Berlusconi with 27.2 percent, according to SWG. Monti, who
started a new party after serving his term in temporary alliance
with Berlusconi and Bersani, leads a political force with 13.7
percent support. Grillo’s 5 Star isn’t in alliance with any
other parties.  Grillo’s crowd assembled in a square adjacent to Chieti’s
700-year-old cathedral and opened umbrellas for a light rain in
the second half of the rally. One spectator waved a red-and-
black Che Guevara flag, while two others lifted a sign that said
“Out with the little people, power to the people.”  ‘Linoleum Journalists’  Television interviews were a target of Grillo’s scorn,
because “linoleum journalists,” as he called them, don’t
challenge their guests, he said. In one instance last week,
Berlusconi, a billionaire media magnate convicted of  tax fraud 
and standing trial on charges of paying a minor for sex, wasn’t
asked a follow-up question when he told a reporter from a TV
network he controls he was disgusted by corruption in politics.  Grillo is scheduled to stop tomorrow in Brindisi and Bari,
two cities in the heel of Italy’s boot. He will hold rallies in
two towns most days until Feb. 21 when the tour ends in  Rome ,
according to a schedule posted on his website. Elections will be
held Feb. 24-25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Milan at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 