-- Italy Needs 9 Billion Euros for Deficit Goal, Official Says
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2013-01-18T18:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/italy-needs-9-billion-euros-to-meet-deficit-goal-official-says.html
Italy  may need at least 9 billion
euros ($12 billion) in additional budget measures in 2013 to
meet its deficit targets as the worsening recession hurts tax
revenue and fuels unemployment costs, a Finance Ministry
official said.  Italy will need to find 8 billion euros to finance jobless
schemes and faces a 6 billion-euro revenue shortfall from value-
added and gambling taxes, Finance Undersecretary Gianfranco Polillo said in an interview in Rome. That will be partly offset
by a bigger-than-expected take from a new property tax and
falling debt financing costs that will add 5 billion euros in
resources.  The Bank of Italy today cut its forecast for the economy,
predicting a contraction of 1 percent this year compared to a
previous forecast of a 0.2 drop, saying the global slowdown and
weak domestic demand were choking growth. That will make it
harder for Italy to meet its goal of a 2013 deficit of 1.6
percent of gross domestic product, he said.  This year “there will be some spillover from a bigger
deficit in 2012 stemming from the fact that GDP has slumped and
we will have less coming in from VAT and a bit less from gaming,
which we will only be able to partly compensate for with the
increase in the property tax,” he said.  Structural Goal  Italy is on track to meet its goal to balance the budget in
structural terms, or excluding the effects of the recession,
this year, he said. The government probably missed its overall
deficit target of 2.6 percent of GDP last year, Polillo said.
The  Bank of Italy  said today the deficit in 2012 was about 3
percent, a prediction Polillo said was reasonable.  Italy has three possibilities to fill the 9 billion-euro
gap, Polillo said. The next government can cut public spending,
seek more revenue through fighting  tax evasion  or just let the
deficit in 2013 run above 2 percent of GDP. Italy holds general
elections on Feb. 24-25.  Introducing new austerity measures, such as an increase of
the value-added  tax rate , would further depress the economy,
Polillo said. That “would have the double effect of increasing
the tax burden and further hurt  consumer spending ,” he said.  Extraordinary measures, such as the sale of public assets,
are needed to cut Italy’s 2 trillion-euro debt, Polillo said.
“There’s no alternative,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  