-- Jakarta’s Heavy Rainfall Persists as Death Toll Reaches 11
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i   a n d   A g u s   S u h a n a
-- 2013-01-18T14:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/jakarta-s-heavy-rainfall-persists-as-flood-death-toll-reaches-11.html
Heavy rain was forecast again for
 Indonesia ’s capital as floods that began three days ago claimed
11 lives in the city.  Five people died of electrocution, four elderly victims
died of hypothermia or illnesses, and two children drowned since
flooding began on Jan. 15, Sutopo Purwo Nugroho, a spokesman at
the National Agency for Disaster Management, told reporters in
Jakarta today. More than 18,000 people in the city of 9.6
million have been evacuated from their homes, he said.  “Rainfall with high intensity may be ongoing until this
weekend,” Nugroho said. Water levels rose in the neighboring
city of Depok and the resulting surge was headed toward Jakarta.  The floods have disrupted businesses, stranded travelers
and swamped the offices of President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono.
Consumer prices may rise because of disruptions in food
distribution, Coordinating Minister for the Economy Hatta Rajasa
said in Jakarta today, adding that the government is working to
ensure smooth deliveries.  A state of emergency in the capital, which contributes
about 16 percent of Indonesia’s economy output, will stay in
effect until Jan. 27, Governor Joko Widodo said yesterday.  6 Percent Flooded  The seasonal floods are affecting 41 square kilometers (16
square miles) of Jakarta, representing about six percent of the
city’s total land area. In 2007, floods submerged 232 square
kilometers and forced the evacuation of 320,000 people, Nugroho
said.  Some of Jakarta’s electricity relay stations were shut for
safety reasons, disrupting power supplies in residential areas,
said Bambang Dwiyanto, spokesman at state utility PT Perusahaan
Listrik Negara. About 1,300 relay stations were shut down today,
compared with 800 yesterday, he said. Jakarta has 19,000 relay
stations.  Indonesia’s floods are not affecting industrial areas and
will have a limited impact on banks, Citigroup Inc. analyst
Ferry Wong said in a report today. The overall economy will face
a limited impact if the heavy rains stop now, he said in the
report.  Demand for home improvements, pharmaceuticals and noodles
will increase, while distribution and logistics businesses will
be impacted, according to the report.  Jakarta sits in a low-lying area with 13 rivers and more
than 1,400 kilometers of man-made waterways, making it prone to
flooding, according to the World Bank. About 40 percent of
Jakarta’s land area is below sea level.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net ;
Agus Suhana in Jakarta at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  