-- Jets Hire Seahawks’ John Idzik as General Manager, NFL Team Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-01-19T05:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/jets-hire-seahawks-john-idzik-as-new-general-manager-team-says.html
The New York Jets hired John Idzik
as the National Football League team’s general manager,
succeeding the fired Mike Tannenbaum.  The Jets also are adding Philadelphia Eagles offensive
coordinator Marty Mornhinweg to replace  Tony Sparano , who was
fired from that job after one season, ESPN reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the transaction.  Idzik had been the Seattle Seahawks’ vice president of
football operations for the past six seasons. Seattle made the
playoffs this season.  “John has seen first-hand what’s necessary to construct a
winning team and has worked with some of the most innovative and
successful coaches in the NFL,” Jets owner  Woody Johnson  said
in a statement.  The Jets finished with a 6-10 record and missed the
playoffs for the second season in row. The 43-year-old
Tannenbaum had been the team’s general manager since 2006 after
working as assistant GM beginning in 2001.  Idzik’s father, John, held numerous coaching positions in
the NFL, including serving as offensive coordinator with the
Jets from 1977-79.  Before joining the Seahawks, who were eliminated from the
playoffs on Jan. 13 with a 30-28 loss to the  Atlanta Falcons ,
Idzik spent three seasons as senior director of football
operations with the  Arizona Cardinals . He broke into the NFL in
1993 and spent 11 seasons with the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers , winning
a Super Bowl in 2001 as the team’s assistant general manager.  New York reached the playoffs three times and never won a
division title in Tannenbaum’s seven years overseeing personnel.
Their regular-season record was 57-55 during that span.  The team retained  Rex Ryan  as its coach for 2013 and fired
Sparano.  “Drawing on 20 years of NFL experience, John, working with
Rex, will get the Jets where all of us want to be,” Johnson
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  