-- Johnson Controls Falls on Profit Forecast: Chicago Mover
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-01-18T21:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/johnson-controls-falls-on-profit-forecast-chicago-mover.html
Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , the largest
U.S. auto-parts maker, fell the most in more than two months
after saying profit will trail analysts’ estimates because
European vehicle demand is falling and labor costs aren’t.  Johnson Controls’ shares fell 3 percent to $31.01 at the
close in New York, the biggest one-day decline since Nov. 7.
They have gained 1.1 percent this year after dropping 1.9
percent last year and 18 percent in 2011.  Net income for the quarter ending March 31 will be 40 cents
to 42 cents a share, Milwaukee-based Johnson Controls said in a
statement today. The average estimate of 21 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a profit of 52 cents a share.  “Given the current demand environment and the operational
pressures the company is facing in  Europe , we believe the risks
around this outlook are elevated and investors could avoid
shares in the near term as this is discounted,”  David Leiker , a
Milwaukee-based analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co., wrote in an
investor note. He rates the shares neutral.  Automakers, including  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , face weaker demand in Europe, which is mired in its worst
sales slump in 19 years. Both U.S.-based companies have
announced European plant closing as part of efforts to end
deficits in the region.  Johnson Controls today also reaffirmed its sales and profit
forecast for the fiscal year. The company estimated that
earnings per share would be $2.60 to $2.70 on Dec. 19.  Johnson Controls received 51 percent of its $42 billion in
revenue last year from its auto parts  unit , which makes seats,
door panels and infotainment systems. The company also makes
auto batteries and equipment for managing building climate and
security; such products contributed 35 percent of revenue last
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  