-- JPMorgan to Start Electronic Corporate Bond Trading System
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-01-18T23:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/jpmorgan-plans-to-start-electronic-corporate-bond-trading-system.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank by assets, plans to consolidate its electronic trading
system for corporate bonds with other asset classes in the early
part of this year as lenders seek to adapt to regulatory changes
and reduce costs.  “We’re trying to figure out how our customers would like
to execute,” Scott Wacker, the London-based head of FX Sales
EMEA at JPMorgan, said today in a telephone interview. “Our
target is the end of the first quarter, maybe into the second
quarter that we intend to start to offer the ability to execute
online for fixed-income products.”  JPMorgan, the most-active underwriter of dollar-denominated
debt, is beginning the effort as Wall Street’s biggest banks
have pared their corporate-bond  inventories  by 76 percent since
the 2007 peak with new risk-curbing regulations forcing them to
reduce their roles as market makers. Firms are capitulating to
the growing use of electronic systems to broker bonds that
traditionally were bought and sold over the counter with traders
as middlemen.  Clients are already using the web-based platform, JP Morgan
Markets, for purposes including trading currencies and commodity
futures and accessing research, according to Wacker.  Last week, Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets, announced the start of an electronic bond-trading
service.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. spent a year developing an
electronic trading system for corporate bonds called GSessions
that started operating in 2012.  The profitability of Wall Street firms is being challenged
by regulations requiring that they hold more capital as a buffer
against potential losses from assets such as corporate debt.  Holdings of company debt at the 21 primary dealers that
trade with the  Federal Reserve   shrank  74 percent to $56.4
billion as of Jan. 9 from the end of 2007, according to the
Federal Reserve.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  