-- JPMorgan Asks If Tech Progress Ending for U.S.: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-01-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/jpmorgan-asks-is-i-t-over-for-u-s-economy-cutting-research.html
The pace of technological advance
may be slowing in the U.S., threatening the economy’s ability to
grow without sparking inflation.  That’s according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  chief U.S.
economist  Michael Feroli . He noted in a Jan. 11 report that the
price of information-processing and software equipment is
declining at the slowest pace in a generation.  That suggests to Feroli a weakening in the degree of
technological breakthrough, a concern for the  U.S. economy  given
that gains in  information technology  are often credited with
boosting productivity from 1995 to 2005. Federal Reserve
researchers have reported that declines in I.T. prices in the
1990s were central to the economic boom that decade.  “If that technological growth is slowing -- as indicated
by the earlier observation on tech prices -- then this could
have quite significant implications for the U.S. economy’s
potential growth rate,” said New York-based Feroli, a former
Fed economist.  At the same time, it’s not all bad news if softer growth of
the supply side aids the re-hiring of underutilized workers and
weaker momentum in  technology  helps reverse the rise in  income
inequality , Feroli wrote:  “A slower pace of tech advances may allow the skill and
education level of the workforce to catch up with the level of
technology.”  * * *  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President  John Williams  is taking note of new academic research that highlights
the perils of too much humility.  “The Most Dangerous Idea in Federal Reserve History:
Monetary Policy Doesn’t Matter” was the title of a paper
presented to the American Economic Association annual meeting
this month by  University of California , Berkeley, economists
Christina D. Romer and David H. Romer.  In it, the husband-and-wife team argue that the Fed’s 100-
year history shows humility can “cause large harms” to the
economy. In the 1930s, for example, excessive pessimism about
the power of expansionary monetary moves led policy makers to
hold back fighting the Great Depression, they said. In the
1970s, doubts about whether contractionary policy would reduce
inflation allowed a price spiral.  With high unemployment and weak inflation, central bankers
more recently may have questioned the benefits of expansionary
 monetary policy  too much and “may be judged to be too
pessimistic” later on, Romer and Romer said.  Christina Romer 
was chairman of President  Barack Obama ’s  Council of Economic
Advisers  in 2009 and 2010.  Speaking to reporters Jan. 14, Williams said the point of
the paper is that there is always uncertainty. The biggest
mistake is that “you get to that point where you don’t believe
you can affect the economy and then you give up,” he said.  For him, with doubts circulating about the potency of the
Fed’s third round of quantitative easing, the lesson is that
“we need to have the very best research and analysis on what
the effects of our policy instruments are.” That research has
“consistently” shown that the unprecedented measures have
worked, he said.  * * *  The so-called New Silk Road has more traffic.  A  World Bank  report this week showed developing nations are
becoming more important trading partners for each other than are
rich countries, supporting what economists call south-south
trade. The Silk Road originally referred to the trade routes
carrying Chinese silk to the Mediterranean starting in 200 AD.  South-south commerce is estimated to account for 50 percent
of total developing country exports in 2010, up from 39.2
percent in 2002. That should help increase the countries’ share
of international trade to 35 percent by 2015, it  said .  The rising power of  emerging markets  was underscored by a
Jan. 16 report from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. It estimates
such nations will grow 4 percent per year from 2011 through
2050, double the pace of richer nations.  China will overtake the U.S. as the world’s largest economy
by 2027 based on market exchange rates, it said. Russia could
pass Germany by 2035 to become Europe’s biggest on the same
basis.  * * *  Cash-strapped European economies may be staging a repeat of
the 1970s.  A lasting period of stagnation and chronic inflation like
that of the late 1970s is a threat for the likes of  Spain  and
 Greece , according to a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analysis of the
“labor share” -- the fraction of national income that workers
take via wages and compensation.  In the 1970s, the tug of war between employees and
employers initially favored workers before it resulted in
unemployment and stagflation, Goldman Sachs economist Andrew Benito said in a Jan. 10 report. As personnel resisted wage
reductions, labor share continued to climb until the early
1980s. That was when companies found ways to economize on
workers and the labor share dropped in relation to capital, he
said.  Similar fallout from excess labor share is now occurring in
Europe’s so-called peripheral economies, from Spain to Greece.
The difference is that while wages drove the cycle in the 1970S,
low  interest rates  created the current one, by triggering
surging investment following the start of the euro in 1999.  The needed reduction in labor share may mean economic pain
for Portugal, Greece and Spain, said London-based Benito, a
former  Bank of England  economist.  By contrast, labor share in Germany has room to climb
after worker compensation didn’t fully profit from the effects
of the lower interest rates, he said.  With labor’s share in the periphery already 13 percentage
points below the level of the 1970s, there may be a limit on how
much further it can fall, said Benito.  The benchmark for the adjustment now required is the U.K.
of the early 1980s, when Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  acted
to make labor markets more efficient, according to Goldman
Sachs. While that period shows a shift to greater labor market
flexibility is possible, it also demonstrates “that the
transition is likely to be painful and politically fraught,”
Benito said.  * * *  Governments could save $1 trillion a year by making
infrastructure spending more efficient, says a new  report  from
McKinsey & Co.’s research division.  The study published yesterday found ways of boosting the
productivity of roads, water supplies and other infrastructure
by enough to save 40 percent of the delivery cost. Suggestions
include speeding up the approval process for building and
upgrading current airports or ports.  The potential for savings is so large because the
infrastructure industry has such weak productivity. Low-income
nations in central Africa could add 2.2 percentage points to
annual growth if they matched the infrastructure building of
India, the report suggests. An increase in such spending by one
percent of GDP could translate into 1.5 million U.S. jobs.  “Infrastructure investment is a rare ’win-win’ that boosts
overall economic productivity in the long run and creates jobs
in the short run,” said Richard Dobbs, a director of the
McKinsey Global Institute.  * * *  An increase in the value of a  home  also increases the
owner’s health.  A study of the U.K. housing market from 1991 to 2009
published by the University of Nottingham found  home equity 
gains cause a reduction in the likelihood of a wide range of
medical conditions such as arthritic conditions, chest pain and
high  blood pressure  among owners.  The effects are stronger for younger people and women, said
economists John Gathergood and Eleonora Fichera in the  study .  Among the reasons suggested are that homeowners are more
likely to buy health insurance and enjoy more leisure time and
exercise. Unlike income increases, a rise in home equity doesn’t
spur risky healthy behavior such as smoking, the study said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  