-- JPMorgan Bond Reduces Whale to Teapot Tempest: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-01-18T16:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/jpmorgan-bond-reduces-whale-to-teapot-tempest-corporate-finance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $6.2 billion
trading loss last year is little more than a fading memory for
bondholders who awarded the lender its cheapest U.S. borrowing
costs ever at a debt sale yesterday.  The largest  U.S. bank  by assets sold $6 billion of
securities, including $2.75 billion of 10-year notes with an
unprecedented 3.2 percent coupon, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demanded to hold those
securities rather than government debt was 56 basis points
tighter than where average comparable JPMorgan spreads traded
before the scandal came to light in April.  JPMorgan’s bond offering came a day after it reported a
record  profit  for the third straight year even after posting the
trading gaffe at the hands of an employee known as the London
Whale. Aided by rising loan demand in a recovering economy, the
New York-based bank boosted mortgage fees and related revenue
almost threefold to $2.03 billion in the fourth quarter. The
trading losses are close to being a “non-issue” Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said.  “Having the capacity to brush away a whale-sized problem
and still be able to generate such significant earnings should
make a bondholder sleep well at night,”  Joel Levington ,
managing director of corporate credit for Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in  New York , which manages $150 billion, said in
an e-mail. The lender “should generate north of $21 billion in
profit annually for the next few years. That profile is highly
unlikely to experience near-term default concerns.”  Record Coupon  JPMorgan’s three-part debt sale was its biggest in the U.S.
since the lender issued $7.2 billion of bonds in April 2011,
Bloomberg data show. The bank sold $1.25 billion of five-year
notes at its record low coupon of 1.8 percent to yield 103 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, and $2 billion of
five-year, floating-rate bonds at 90 basis points more than the
London interbank offered rate. The 10-year portion had a spread
of 133 basis points.  Average spreads on 10-year, A rated JPMorgan bonds plunged
to 140 basis points Jan. 16, down from 243 basis points on May
18, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data, a
week after  Fitch Ratings  cut the bank’s debt as a result of the
trading loss. That compares with 189 basis points on March 26,
before reports of the credit-derivative trades surfaced.  Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan in New York,
declined to comment.  ‘Solid Position’  The bank earned $21.3 billion in net income last year on
improving  credit quality , according to  Kathleen Shanley , a bond
analyst at New York-based researcher Gimme Credit LLC. A
provision for credit losses declined by more than half to $3.4
billion from $7.6 billion in 2011, Shanley wrote yesterday in a
report. It’s the third straight year the lender has earned at
least $15 billion in profit.  “They continue to be a very solid position for a lot of
fixed-income investors,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond
strategy at Susquehanna International Group LLP, said in a
telephone interview from New York. “They continue to perform
extremely well.”  JPMorgan first disclosed the trading losses on May 10,
after Dimon initially dismissed concern as a “tempest in a
teapot” the month before. London-based trader Bruno Iksil, who
worked in the chief investment office, built up positions in
 credit derivatives  so large he was nicknamed the London Whale.
The bank  released  a 129-page report Jan. 16 that blamed managers
for roles in failing to halt the loss, as well as an “error
prone” risk-modeling system.  Biggest Loss  The bank’s shares fell 9.3 percent May 11, the biggest drop
in nine months, after JPMorgan estimated its trading losses at
$2 billion. Fitch reduced the firm’s long-term default rating to
A+ from AA- the same day, following the close of trading.  The cost to protect JPMorgan debt from losses for five
years climbed 21 basis points to 132.5 basis points after the
disclosure, Bloomberg prices show. Those credit-default swaps
traded at 78.5 basis points at 11:26 a.m. in New York.  CDS prices typically fall when investor confidence improves
and rise when it deteriorates. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  “We’re five years on from the beginning of the financial
crisis and investors have now recognized that many banks have
increased their capital dramatically, non-performing loans have
come down or their asset quality has improved dramatically,”
Pinto said. “They’re much more comfortable investing today in
bank paper.”  Bank Spreads  The lender set aside $656 million in provisions against
future mortgage loan losses, compared with an average estimate
by analysts of about $1.5 billion, according to a Jan. 16
earnings statement. Mortgage fees and related revenue increased
to $2.03 billion in the fourth quarter from $723 million a year
earlier as the  unemployment rate  fell to 7.8 percent, indicating
a strengthening economy.  The gap between spreads on investment-grade bank bonds and
the broader high-grade market reached the narrowest level in
more than five years, when relative yields on bank debt dropped
to 154 basis points, or 9 basis points more than corporates, on
Jan. 7, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  “Everything is driven by what the Fed is doing,” said Pri de Silva, a bank analyst at New York-based CreditSights Inc.,
“Banks are opportunistically locking in the lower rates.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve has held  interest rates  near
record lows for an unprecedented fifth straight year, pushing
investors to riskier assets in the search for yield.  “The CIO fiasco blemished JPMorgan’s previously stellar
reputation as a savvy risk control manager,” wrote  Gimme
Credit ’s Shanley, who rates the bank’s debt a buy. “Jamie Dimon
is no doubt glad to bid farewell to the year of the London
Whale.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  