-- Keystone’s Tar Sands Waste Said to Warm Climate More Than Coal
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-01-18T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/keystone-s-tar-sands-waste-said-to-warm-climate-more-than-coal.html
Refining  Canada ’s oil sands into
gasoline may speed global warming more than previously estimated
after accounting for use of a waste product, which can be burned
like coal.  Opening a new front in a fight to persuade President  Barack Obama  to reject the Keystone XL pipeline, which would carry oil
sands from Alberta to the U.S.  Gulf Coast , environmental groups
yesterday released a study that found refining the heavy
material will create 5 billion tons of petroleum coke, or
petcoke, that’s used by  power plants , aluminum factories and
 steel mills .  Compared with coal, petcoke is cheaper and releases more
carbon dioxide when burned. Much of the U.S. supply is exported.  “Petcoke is the coal hiding in the  tar sands ,” said Lorne
Stockman, research director for Oil Change International, a
Washington-based advocacy group that works for a transition away
from fossil fuels. Until now, “the emissions of burning petcoke
has not been included in the analyses.”  Opponents of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s 1,661-mile (2,673-
kilometer) pipeline are stepping up their efforts to stop the
project as the U.S. State Department completes its review of a
new route in Nebraska that avoids drinking water supplies. Obama
rejected the pipeline year ago, citing concerns about water, and
encouraged the company to reapply.  Stockman said he gave State Department officials a research
report yesterday showing that 15 percent to 30 percent of a
barrel of  oil sands  bitumen can end up as petcoke. A lighter
crude would have less than 2 percent, he said.  Carbon Footprint  “There is not a true picture of the carbon footprint” for
Keystone without considering petcoke, said Deborah Gordon, a
senior associate in the energy and climate program at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, in an interview.  The pipeline’s route has been subjected to four years of
government reviews, which found no risks to environmental
resources in the states, Shawn Howard, a TransCanada spokesman,
said yesterday in an e-mail.  “Let’s be frank: this is not about the Keystone XL
pipeline, diluted bitumen, emissions or a substance that is in a
particular blend of oil,” Howard said. “It’s about a group
that wants to end the use of fossil fuels entirely.”  A spokesman for Oxbow Corp., the nation’s largest petcoke
independent marketer, dismissed the group’s report linking
petcoke and the pipeline.  “We don’t have a dog in the fight” over Keystone, said
Brad Goldstein, a spokesman for the  West Palm Beach , Florida-
based Oxbow.  Global Warming  Environmentalists say that the decision on the pipeline
will be a key, first step that determines if Obama is serious
about tackling global warming in his second term.  Pipeline backers say Keystone, which is proposed to cross
six U.S. states, will create thousands of jobs and reduce the
need for the U.S. to import oil from less friendly countries.
Republicans have criticized Obama for denying TransCanada’s
original application.  Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall and the Republican governors
of 10 U.S. states including  Arizona ,  Texas  and Utah wrote Obama
yesterday, urging him to advance the project. The pipeline is
“fundamentally important to the future economic prosperity” of
both nations, they wrote.  The State Department’s final environmental assessment of
the original Keystone route said the project was “not likely to
impact the amount of crude oil produced from the oil sands.”
Canada would find other buyers if the U.S. balked at approving
the pipeline, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  