-- New Orleans Mayor Urges Congress to Fund More Cops (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-01-18T22:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/new-orleans-mayor-urges-congress-to-fund-more-cops-transcript-.html
Congress should seize on a rare area
of agreement between President  Barack Obama  and the  National
Rifle Association  in the gun-violence debate and provide funds
to hire more police officers, New Orleans Mayor Mitch Landrieu
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with New Orleans Mayor Mitch
Landrieu. Mr. Mayor, thank you for being with us.  MITCH LANDRIEU: It’s great to be with you.  HUNT: The president unveiled his gun-control package this
week, pretty bold. The NRA immediately attacked it, said it
won’t do anything about criminals and won’t protect children.
That’s been the pattern - there’s a - it peaks when it’s
announced and then subsides. Why will it be different this time?  LANDRIEU: Well, first of all, I think the one thing that
everybody in America cannot turn their head away from is the
culture of violence that’s enveloped our country for the last 30
years. The numbers are just there to be seen.  Unfortunately, it takes an event that happened at Sandy
Hook and in Newtown,  Connecticut , to focus everybody’s
attention. But as many people have now begun to notice, since
that catastrophic event, which was just almost hard to imagine -
900 people have been killed on the streets of America. I’ve been
speaking now for a couple years about the carnage on the streets
of major American cities, 12,000 people were killed.  HUNT: So you think it will be different?  LANDRIEU: Well, let me say this. It has been amazing in the
last couple of months that the nation has stayed focused on this
issue. And it seems like this particular event has really caused
the nation to at least pause and to think about where we are,
where we’re going.  Now, typically what happens - and it happens in Congress
all the time - the polar opposites begin to dominate the debate.
And the question then gets, can we ever find common ground? And
can we move the needle forward?  The NRA and the Congress and the president can agree on one
thing. I see it in the proposal already. The NRA says we need
more police officers on the street. President Obama made a
proposal of $4 billion to fund the COPS program, which has been
completely eliminated in the last eight years in Congress. They
both agree on that. You know what the mayors say? That sounds
great.  HUNT: That’s -  LANDRIEU: If you all both agree on that, why don’t we do
that? Because when President Clinton was in office and Vice
President Biden was a senator, they put cops on the streets of
America and it reduced the crime rate.  HUNT: You’re a member of the Mayors Against Illegal Guns -  LANDRIEU: Illegal guns, I am.  HUNT: - of which my principal owner of this network is a
key figure. What specifically can your group, can this group do
that’s different than before?  LANDRIEU: Well, again, the most important thing is to keep
people focused on the issue. This is not a Second Amendment
issue. I believe in the Second Amendment. I own guns. I’m from
 Louisiana .  But, again, it is about guns, but it is much - it’s much
broader than that. It’s about the culture of violence in
America. We have to stay focused on that.  If you look at just in the city of  New Orleans , Briana
Allen, a 5-year-old baby girl, got gunned down just a couple of
months ago. A couple of weeks before that, another young boy got
- Jeremy Galmon, 2 years old - got caught in between the fire of
two guys shooting each other. And then somebody got bludgeoned.  So it is about guns. And it’s about violence. And it’s
about making sure that Congress, when they speak, puts their
money where their mouth is.  HUNT: You have made such progress on so many areas in New
Orleans, but you still have a  murder rate  that’s, what, 10 times
-  LANDRIEU: I have a murder rate that’s higher than the
national average. Now, our murders -  HUNT: Can you deal with that when you have state laws that
are so lax on guns, you can carry concealed weapons, there’s no
- I mean, aren’t you - aren’t you really limited in what you can
do?  LANDRIEU: Well, yes, if - if you were just trying to deal
with guns. But, again, this approach has to be comprehensive. It
has to be about guns, but it has to be about everything else.  I’ll give you a perfect example. And you will remember
this. When President Clinton and the whole team back in the day
had money for the COPS program to put 100,000 cops on the
street, when we went to war, post-Sept. 11, that money got
pulled back, all right?  We then prosecuted both of these wars. We spent $1 trillion
on it. But $8 billion - $8 billion of American taxpayers money
was spent building police forces in  Iraq ,  Afghanistan , and in
Medellin. That money has not come back full circle.  Now, one of the things Congress can do - and there seems to
be complete agreement on this right now - is that we need more
police officers on the streets to protect neighborhoods, do
community - that will help. That has nothing to do -  HUNT: But that’s not going to happen if you get the
sequestration that’s supposed to take effect on March 1.  LANDRIEU: That’s - that’s - that is exactly right. The
second thing about mental health, the - what they’re talking
about now is what kinds of restrictions should we put on people
who have mental health issues in terms of buying guns? That’s
one way to look at it.  The other is this. If you need mental  health services , you
can’t cut funding for mental health services. There has to be a
place where people get them. And on the streets of America, one
thing that happens to mayors is my emergency medical service
guys, if they’re called out someplace and somebody is having a
problem with mental health issues, if we have nowhere to bring
them, if there’s nobody to take care of them, then whether they
get their hands on a gun or a bat, they could potentially hurt.
So it’s about funding, as well.  HUNT: But all the talk here in  Washington  is about cutting.  LANDRIEU: That’s exactly right.  HUNT: No one’s talking about more money for cops. No one’s
talking about more money for mental health up in the Congress.  LANDRIEU: This is - this is why people on the ground get
very frustrated with Congress. There’s a lot of talk, and
there’s not a lot of doing.  HUNT: - one Louisiana-specific question. Governor Jindal
has proposed to substitute the state’s income and corporate
taxes with an increased  sales tax . What do you think of that?
And how would it affect New Orleans?  LANDRIEU: Well, first of all, generally speaking, when you
take a $3 billion pot of money that’s coming in and then you say
I don’t want it anymore, and you say you want to fill it back up
and have it be revenue-neutral, and you want to do it with sales
tax, there are going to be winners and there are going to be
losers in that regard. The numbers don’t match up at the moment,
No. 1.  No. 2, the sales tax in New Orleans right now is one of the
highest in the country. And so the specter of closing the hole,
right, really kind of doing the math so that it works is that
you have to raise the sales tax 3 percent or 4 percent or 5
percent. Having a 15 percent sales tax doesn’t seem to work.
Now, Louisiana’s going to go -  HUNT: Do you think he’s doing it because of his national
aspirations?  LANDRIEU: I don’t - you know, one of the things we learn as
legislators and mayors is you don’t question other people’s
intentions, but you look at the consequences of what they do.  Now, let me be very careful about this. I’m running a city
that for the past three years has balanced its budget. We’ve
gotten rid of our structural deficit. We cut $100 million out of
budget, or 25 percent. Mayors really do know how to balance
budgets.  But one thing that we cannot do is provide a service to the
people that they demand without the resources to do it. We’ve
got to get rid of waste, fraud and abuse. We’ve got to get rid
of inefficiency, ineffectiveness, and we have to have a zero
tolerance for corruption.  But once you get past that, the government and the public
sector and the private sector and the faith-based community have
got to find a way to do the things that are necessary that the
country says they need so that we can have the kind of economic
growth.  HUNT: And this tax change wouldn’t help you in Louisiana?  LANDRIEU: I don’t think that it’s going to help a lot.  HUNT: It would be -  LANDRIEU: I think - but that debate really ought to play
itself out. The math will reflect whether or not it actually
works and who’s going to benefit and who’s going to get hurt.  HUNT: Mr. Mayor, one of your more remarkable achievements
in the time you’ve been in office is to heal a lot of the racial
divide in the city of New Orleans. On Friday, your predecessor,
Ray Nagin, an African-American, was indicted. We’re not going to
judge his innocence or guilt. But your reaction? And do you
worry that this might reignite racial tensions?  LANDRIEU: Well, I worry about the people of New Orleans.
This is a very sad day for the people of the city. The
allegations portend a violation of the public trust. And I think
where the people of New Orleans have got across racial lines is
that we have a zero-tolerance now for public corruption, because
it takes - it takes assets away from other things the
government’s supposed to be focused on. New Orleans turned a
corner two-and-a-half years ago. All of us are on the same page
that we have to do things a new way in a different way, and I
think this reminds people of a day that most people in New
Orleans would like to forget.  HUNT: Let’s talk about a brighter subject. The  Super Bowl 
will be coming back -  LANDRIEU: That is a better subject, thank you.  HUNT: The Super Bowl will be coming back to New Orleans.
It’s actually the 10th time the Super Bowl’s been there -  LANDRIEU: Yeah, it’s great.  HUNT: - but the first time since Katrina. Does that add
significance?  LANDRIEU: It absolutely does. Well, first of all, we have -
we hosted the full Super Bowl post-Sept. 11. So we understand,
you know, the incredible significance of the entire nation
coming together for an event like this. And, of course, post-
Katrina, you know, people left us for dead. When you think about
it, some years ago, we were 15 feet underwater and on the bottom
of every list that matters. And now, in this particular year,
the city of New Orleans is really outperforming the rest of the
nation in so many beautiful ways. And we’re about to host the
Super Bowl again.  And ironically - knock on wood - the  New England Patriots ,
you know, are going to be back in the Super Bowl. They were
there after Sept. 11. And that -  HUNT: And you’re picking - are you picking them?  LANDRIEU: I’m picking them. That’s my -  HUNT: Oh, we have a pick here. If you can’t have your
Saints, you’ll take the Patriots.  LANDRIEU: I’ll take them. I’m betting on  Tom Brady .  HUNT: Mr. Mayor, thank you so much for being with us.  LANDRIEU: Great. Good to see you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<255940.5983423.3.4.0.0.25>#
 