-- New Orleans Mayor Says Congress Should Back Obama, NRA on Police
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-01-19T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/new-orleans-mayor-says-congress-should-back-obama-nra-on-police.html
Congress should seize on a rare area
of agreement between President Barack Obama and the  National
Rifle Association  in the gun-violence debate and provide funds
to hire more police officers, the mayor of  New Orleans  said.  “If Congress can do anything, it can do the thing that
everybody agrees on,” Mayor Mitch Landrieu said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend.  Among Obama’s proposals released on Jan. 16 was one for
Congress to approve an existing request for $4 billion to help
communities put 15,000 police officers on duty. The NRA has
called for more police to protect schoolchildren. Congressional
Republicans are pressing for deficit-reduction measures.  Landrieu, 52, a Democrat, called the Jan. 18 indictment of
his predecessor, Ray Nagin, on a kickback scheme “a very sad
day.” Nagin, who led the city during  Hurricane Katrina , was
charged with conspiracy,  money laundering , bribery, honest
services wire fraud and filing false tax returns. His attorney,
 Robert Jenkins , didn’t return calls seeking comment.  “This reminds people of a day that most people in New
Orleans would like to forget,” Landrieu said.  Landrieu is a member of Mayors Against Illegal Guns, which
supports background checks for all gun purchases and limits on
owning assault rifles and high-capacity ammunition magazines. A
co-chairman of the organization is  New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  ‘Reasonable Restrictions’  “Most Americans understand that we can have Second
Amendment rights and have reasonable restrictions to keep
illegal guns out of the hands of criminals,” Landrieu said.
“That’s something we ought to all be able to agree on. We ought
to find a way to do that.”  Polls show that public support for new gun laws often
increases after a mass shooting and then fades. Landrieu said
the Dec. 14 shooting at a Newtown, Connecticut, elementary
school in which 20 students and six adults were killed, has kept
the gun issue in the public’s consciousness.  “It has been amazing in the last couple of months that the
nation has stayed focused on this issue,” he said. “And it
seems like this particular event has really caused the nation to
at least pause and to think about where we are, where we’re
going.”  Sales Tax  Landrieu criticized Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal ’s
proposal to end income and corporate taxes and instead increase
the state sales tax to make up the revenue loss. Landrieu said
the proposal could mean a 15 percent sales tax for New Orleans.
The  Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy , a Washington-
based research group, said Jindal would shift the tax burden
from richer residents to poorer ones.  “The numbers don’t match up at the moment,” Landrieu
said. “If you want to have police officers, emergency medical
services, if you want to have recreation programs for kids,
mental health services for folks, then you have to have the
appropriate resources.”  The return of the  Super Bowl  to New Orleans for the first
time since Hurricane Katrina is a sign of how far the city has
come back after the destruction, Landrieu said. The game is
scheduled for Feb. 3.  Landrieu noted that New Orleans also hosted the first Super
Bowl after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  The  New England Patriots  won that game, 20-17, and Landrieu
said he expected them to return this year. Citing the Patriots
quarterback, he predicted a repeat victory: “I’m going to bet
on  Tom Brady .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 