-- New York Public Advocate Settles Suit Seeking Fine Data
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-01-18T23:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/new-york-public-advocate-settles-suit-seeking-fine-data.html
New York Public Advocate Bill de Blasio settled a lawsuit he filed against Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  last year seeking information on fines after city
agencies responded to his request, according to a court filing.  De Blasio sued Bloomberg in July in New York State Supreme
Court in  Manhattan , saying that complaints by small-business
owners show the city is seeking to boost revenue by increasing
enforcement of regulations.  The city had failed to provide information requested by the
public advocate in May on fines, which doubled to about $800
million in 2011 from about $400 million in 2002, de Blasio said
in the petition.  All six agencies listed in de Blasio’s petition provided
“full responses” in August to his requests for information
about violations issued and fines collected in the fiscal years
2002 to 2012, according to a stipulation dated Dec. 21.  “It’s a disgrace it took a lawsuit to pry this information
loose from  City Hall ,” de Blasio said in a statement. “Small
businesses are hurting, and they deserve to know the truth about
the fines they have faced under this mayor. City Hall was wrong
to stand in the way, and it’s only right for the administration
to pay for the costs of releasing this data.”  Justice Carol E. Huff allowed the petition to be withdrawn
and dismissed the suit in a ruling dated Jan. 14 and posted
yesterday. The filing didn’t give any details on the information
that was provided. The city agreed to pay $13,000 in legal fees
in the case.  ‘Significant Amount’  The agencies turned over a “significant amount” of
information and de Blasio’s office is in the process of
analyzing it with plans to issue a report on the data within
weeks, Wiley Norvell, a spokesman for the public advocate, said
in a telephone interview.  De Blasio said in the petition that he got so many
complaints he had to set up a separate hot line dedicated to
small business owners, who said that city agencies were citing
and fining them for violations that had never been called to
their attention. They also accused the city of imposing fines
for low-risk, first-time offenses without asking for them to be
corrected.  ‘Considerable Effort’  “The requested data was sent months ago,” Gloria Yi,
assistant corporation counsel with the general litigation
division of the city’s law department, said in a statement.
“The request encompassed over a decade of detailed financial
data from multiple city agencies and involved considerable
effort to compile.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News . De Blasio, a possible
candidate for mayor this year, finished third in a Nov. 21
Quinnipiac University poll of voters behind City Council Speaker
Christine Quinn and former City Comptroller  William Thompson  in
the race for the Democratic nomination.  The mayor’s office said at the time the suit was filed that
the city’s restaurants are cleaner, construction sites are
safer, the number of fires has come down, and streets are
cleaner and safer because of enforcement of regulations and
laws.  Fines Increase  Actual fines rose to $859.4 million in 2012 from $478.6
million in 2002, an increase of $380.8 million -- $198.3 million
of which is represented by violations from vehicle drivers, or
about 54 percent, the mayor’s office said in July.  The increase in motor-vehicle fines came from higher
penalties for parking tickets; more revenue from red-light
tickets as more cameras were installed; tickets for violations
of the city’s bus lanes, which didn’t exist in 2002; and more
revenue from traffic court as the state has increased fines for
moving violations over the past decade, the mayor’s office said.  The remaining $182.5 million increase can be attributed to
enforcement of regulations and laws including building codes and
construction violations, fire code violations, and more
targeting of illegal tobacco sales, the mayor’s office said.  The case is De Blasio v. Bloomberg, 103374/2012,  New York 
State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  