-- Djokovic Extends Run in Australian as Sharapova Ties Graf Start
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-18T13:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/no-4-radwanska-birthday-girl-kerber-advance-at-australian-open.html
Novak Djokovic extended his winning
streak to 17 matches yesterday at the Australian Open, where
 Maria Sharapova  routed Venus Williams 6-1, 6-3 to tie the record
for fewest games lost in the first three rounds.  Women’s No. 4 seed Agnieszka Radwanska extended her perfect
record in 2013, while fifth-seeded Angelique Kerber made the
round of 16 at the season-opening tennis Grand Slam tournament
on her birthday.  Top-seeded Djokovic defeated  Radek Stepanek  of the  Czech
Republic  6-4, 6-3, 7-5 to advance to the fourth round at
Melbourne Park for the seventh year in a row. The Serb is
seeking to become the first man to win three straight Australian
Open titles since the professional era began in 1968.  “It wasn’t an easy match,” Djokovic, 25, said in a news
conference. “He’s very skillful, comes to the net, never gives
you the same ball twice. That’s something that makes him a
different player from most of the guys.”  Djokovic will next play No. 15 Stanislas Wawrinka of
Switzerland, who was a straight-set winner against 20th-seeded
 Sam Querrey , the only American man left in the singles draw.
With 11-time Grand Slam champion  Rafael Nadal  absent because of
injury and illness, Djokovic is in line to face No. 4  David Ferrer  of  Spain  in the semifinals.  Today, top-seed  Victoria Azarenka  will play Jamie Hampton
of the U.S, and Britain’s  Andy Murray  takes on 110th-ranked
Ricardas Berankis of Lithuania. Record 17-time men’s Grand Slam
singles champion  Roger Federer  plays Australia’s  Bernard Tomic ,
and American  Serena Williams , seeded third, faces Ayumi Morita
of Japan.  Ferrer, who led the men’s tour with a career-best seven
titles last year, beat 28th-seeded Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus 6-
4, 6-2, 6-3 to close day five.  Nishikori Meeting  Ferrer next meets Kei Nishikori after the No. 16 from Japan
had a straight-set win against Russia’s Evgeny Donskoy. Eighth-
seeded Janko Tipsarevic won his second straight five-set match
to become the second Serbian man to reach the fourth round at
all four majors. He’ll take on No. 10 Nicolas Almagro of Spain
in the next round.  “Right now I feel really, really tired,” Tipsarevic said
after beating Julien Benneteau of France 3-6, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4, 6-
3. “It could have gone either way. I really consider myself
lucky to be a winner today.”  Kevin Anderson  outlasted  Fernando Verdasco , the No. 22 from
Spain, in five sets to become the first South African man in 10
years to reach a Grand Slam fourth round, where he’ll play No. 5
seed Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic.  Worst Defeat  Women’s No. 2 seed Sharapova took 79 minutes to defeat
seven-time major champion Williams of the U.S. on Rod Laver
Arena. It was Williams’s worst defeat in Melbourne since a 6-1,
6-1 semifinal loss to  Martina Hingis  of Switzerland in 2001.  Sharapova, who won the tournament in 2008, had advanced to
the third round by becoming the first woman in 28 years to
secure back-to-back 6-0, 6-0 wins at a Grand Slam. Her loss of
only four games en route to the last 16 tied 22-time major
champion Steffi Graf’s 1989 mark for the fewest by any woman at
that stage since the Australian Open moved to 128-player draws.  “The reason I started so well in this tournament is
because I knew that I had to,” said Sharapova, who had to
withdraw from her only tuneup because of a collarbone injury.
“I hadn’t played a professional match, a real match, in over
two months. I was just really determined from the start.”  She’ll take on Kirsten Flipkens of Belgium for a place in
the quarterfinals.  Kerber, who turned 25 yesterday, was presented with a cake
and serenaded with “Happy Birthday” by the crowd after beating
U.S. teenager Madison Keys 6-2, 7-5 to reach the fourth round.  Birthday Treat  “It was a very tough match because Madison is a great
young player,” Kerber said after winning in 100 minutes. “I’m
so happy to win on my birthday.”  Kerber, who last season became the first German woman to
finish in the year-end top five since Graf in 1996, next faces
Ekaterina Makarova after the 19th-seeded Russian ousted No. 11
 Marion Bartoli  of France in three sets.  Li Na , the No. 6 seed from China and 2011 runner-up in
Melbourne, beat Sorana Cirstea of Romania to set up a fourth-
round matchup with No. 18 Julia Goerges of Germany.  Radwanska, from Poland, stayed unbeaten this year with a
6-3, 6-1 victory against Heather Watson of Britain. Organizers
temporarily shut the retractable roofs on the two main stadiums
following light drizzle as temperatures in Melbourne dropped
below the mid-20s Celsius after hitting a high of 40 degrees
(104 Fahrenheit) two days ago.  Radwanska, who tuned up by winning back-to-back titles in
Auckland and Sydney, is yet to lose a set in 12 matches this
year after breaking into the top five in 2012.  “I’m really playing good and everything is working,”
Radwanska, 23, said. “I just hope I keep going. Now it’s gonna
be harder and harder playing against seeded players.”  She moves on to play No. 13 Ana Ivanovic, who defeated
22nd-seeded Jelena Jankovic 7-5, 6-3 in a matchup of former No.
1-ranked players from Serbia. The runner-up to Sharapova at
 Melbourne  Park in 2008, Ivanovic has lost her last four meetings
with Radwanska.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  