-- Nobel Biocare Receives Board Proposal From Shareholder
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-01-18T16:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/nobel-biocare-gets-board-proposal-from-former-straumann-director.html
Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , the
world’s second-biggest dental implant maker, said a former vice
chairman at larger rival  Straumann Holding AG (STMN)  proposed himself
and two Siemens AG executives for seats on the Nobel board.  Oskar Ronner, a Nobel Biocare shareholder, proposed
himself, Cheryl Benini-Leland and Rolf Renz as directors, the
Glattbrugg, Switzerland-based company said in a statement today.
Nobel said it will interview the candidates and the board will
make a recommendation “in due course.”  The nominations may be an effort to unify the board, which
has suffered from disagreements between Swiss and Scandinavian
directors, Daniel Jelovcan, an analyst with Cheuvreux in Zurich,
said in a phone interview. The company moved its headquarters to
 Switzerland  from  Sweden  in 2002. Ronner, 68, served as vice
chairman of Basel, Switzerland-based Straumann from 2000 to
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is well known that the board at Nobel Biocare was
split in the past,” Jelovcan said. “Oskar Ronner is looking to
turn around the company and with that, the share price. If it’s
more solid at the board level then it will be better for the
company in the future.”  Nobel shares rose 5 percent, the biggest jump since Aug. 6,
to 9.50 Swiss francs in Zurich. They have plunged 81 percent in
the past five years, compared with a 57 percent drop for
Straumann.  Recession Effect  Nobel and Straumann have been hurt by reduced demand for
implants because of the recession and increased unemployment. On
Jan. 4, Straumann announced the appointment of Marco Gadola as
chief executive officer to “revitalize growth, even in this
challenging environment.”  Nobel’s share price rise “has nothing to do with the
fundamentals of the company,” Sibylle Bischofberger Frick, an
analyst with Zuercher Kantonalbank in Zurich, said in an
interview. “I think the more important thing is that there is a
hope and a dream now that a strong shareholder is pushing the
company to make changes.”  Ronner was CEO of Elektrowatt AG, and moved to  Siemens AG (SIE) 
after the German company acquired Elektrowatt’s building
controls and security divisions in 1998. Benini-Leland is senior
vice president of a building technology unit of Siemens in
Switzerland and Renz, 57, is chief financial officer of Siemens
Southwest  Europe , according to Nobel.  Annual Meeting  Ronner and Renz didn’t immediately respond to messages
seeking comment. Benini-Leland declined to comment when reached
by phone. Matthias Kraemer, a spokesman for Siemens, also
declined to comment.  Nobel separately nominated a former Straumann executive,
Franz Maier, 48, for the board. Shareholders will elect board
members at the  annual meeting  March 28.  Sueha Demokan, a spokesman for Nobel, said the company
received Ronner’s proposal as it was preparing the Maier
nomination.  “It’s way too early to make a judgment,” he said by
phone. The board is obligated to review the proposal from
Ronner, who owns less than 3 percent of shares and whose holding
is private, Demokan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  