-- Nortel Mediator Extends Creditor Talks on $9 Billion
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-01-18T21:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/nortel-mediator-extends-creditor-talks-on-9-billion.html
Creditors of  Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) ,
the defunct telecommunications company, were asked to extend for
four days their negotiations over how to split $9 billion in
cash among bondholders and retirees.  Mediator Warren K. Winkler, the chief justice of Ontario,
asked participants in the talks, which began Jan. 14, to stay in
Toronto and work toward a settlement until noon on Jan. 22.  “The mediator had asked each stakeholder group to have
personnel present with the appropriate authority to conduct
settlement negotiations,” according to a  statement  on the
mediator’s website.  The mediation pits Nortel’s Canadian and U.S. entities and
their creditors against the company’s European units and their
creditors, including retirees seeking to retain pensions.  The groups are fighting over a shrinking pile of cash that
won’t cover all of the debts owed by Nortel and its units.
Creditors have presented more than $36 billion in claims in
 Canada , according to a status report filed in a Toronto court in
October.  Without a mediated end to the disputes, court battles may
break out in Canada, the U.S., the U.K. and  France  with
conflicting rulings by different judges, according to Winkler.  “This would be a catastrophic outcome,” Winkler wrote in
April, when the current mediation started. The first two
mediation efforts failed.  Nortel, based in Mississauga, Ontario, filed for bankruptcy
in 2009.  The company’s 10.125 percent bonds that mature in July rose
as much as 1.3 percent today before closing at 116.75 cents on
the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  