-- Norwegian Rises After Pricing $447 Million IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2013-01-18T21:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/norwegian-rises-after-pricing-447-million-ipo.html
Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. (NCLH) 
jumped 30 percent after the company raised $447 million in an
initial public offering, pricing the shares above their expected
range.  The stock closed at $24.79 in New York following its market
debut. Miami-based Norwegian sold 23.5 million shares, a 12
percent stake, for $19 each, according to a statement yesterday,
after initially planning to offer them for $16 to $18 apiece.  Norwegian is taking advantage of a pickup in demand for
cruises and plans to use proceeds from the IPO to repay debt.
Buyers in the offering valued Norwegian as expensively as its
largest competitor, Carnival Corp., which controls five times
Norwegian’s share of the cruise business, according to
Morningstar Inc.  The industry has persevered through tough times and “grown
at a significantly higher pace with new capacity coming on,”
Chief Executive Officer Kevin Sheehan said.  “Every time you bring out one of these beautiful new
ships, it gets new people to take notice,” he said today in a
telephone interview.  Norwegian planned to use the IPO to reduce total debt to
$2.6 billion, according to regulatory filings.  At the IPO price, Norwegian had an enterprise value of $6.4
billion, or about 12 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the 12 months through
September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s in
line with  Carnival Corp. (CCL) , which also traded at 12 times as of
yesterday.  Apollo, TPG  Carnival, also based in Miami, has a market share of about
50 percent, while Norwegian’s share is between 7 percent and 10
percent, according to Jaime Katz, a Chicago-based analyst at
Morningstar.  New York-based  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based TPG Capital together paid $1 billion for half of
Norwegian’s equity in January 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Apollo will own about 33 percent of Norwegian after the
IPO, and TPG will own about 11 percent, filings show. Genting
Hong Kong Ltd., which owned the cruise line before the private-
equity firms’ investment, will hold 44 percent.  The shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol NCLH. UBS AG and Barclays Plc led the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  