-- Obama Converts Campaign to Nonprofit to Push Agenda
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-01-18T19:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/obama-converts-campaign-to-nonprofit-group-to-push-agenda.html
President  Barack Obama  is converting
the machinery of his re-election campaign into a tax-exempt
nonprofit group to push his second-term legislative agenda.  The new group, Organizing for Action, will be headed by Jim Messina, who served as Obama’s 2012 campaign manager. The group,
separate from the Democratic National Committee, will solicit
donations from corporations and individuals to augment Obama’s
legislative initiatives on such issues as climate change,
economic programs, reducing gun violence or overhauling
immigration policy.  The organization “will be an unparalleled force in
American politics,” according to an e-mail sent to supporters
by the campaign under Obama’s name. “It will work to turn our
shared values into legislative action.”  The transformation marks the first time a president has
reconfigured the pieces of a re-election campaign into an
outside group formed for the express purpose of pressuring
Congress to pass the administration’s agenda.  “Organizing for Action is going to be a very effective
tool to organize people all over the country for the president’s
agenda,” Stephanie Cutter, who served as Obama’s deputy
campaign manager, said today in an interview on MSNBC. Americans
“voted for change, they voted for action and they voted for a
pretty specific agenda.”  Campaign Aides  Familiar names will dominate the group’s board of
directors, the Democratic official said. Besides Cutter, they
include former White House press secretary Robert Gibbs and top
2012 campaign aides Jennifer O’Malley-Dillon and Julianna Smoot.  Jon Carson, White House director of the Office of Public
Engagement, is being tapped as executive director of the group,
which will have offices in  Washington  and Obama’s hometown of
 Chicago .  David Axelrod, senior adviser to the 2012 campaign, will
become a consultant. White House senior adviser David Plouffe is
expected to join the group after he leaves the administration
later this month, according to a Democratic official who asked
for anonymity because the move hasn’t been announced.  The formation of the organization was reported earlier by
the Los Angeles Times.  Election Costs  Total spending in the presidential campaign exceeded $2
billion, Federal Election Commission filings show. During that
time, the Obama For America campaign compiled a grassroots
juggernaut of about 12 million e-mail addresses, tapped social
media platforms and developed sophisticated political tracking
methods to identify voters and their interests.  Such machinery can now be used for an electronic lobbying
campaign to carry Obama into the legislative fights with
Congress over the next four years. The new group also will be
used to “train the next generation of organizers,” Cutter said
on  MSNBC .  Evidence of the new efforts surfaced Jan. 17, when Messina
used the leftover e-mail data bank to notify Obama supporters of
the need to mobilize in support of the president’s package of
measures to reduce gun violence.  “People like you spoke out and demanded action. Your
input, along with ideas from leaders and policymakers across the
political spectrum, went into the president’s plan,” Messina’s
e-mail said.  Vice President Joe Biden, speaking to the U.S. Conference
of Mayors yesterday, promised an all-out push for Obama’s
proposals to reduce gun violence.  “We’re going to take this fight to the halls of
Congress,” Biden said. “We’re going to take it beyond that,
we’re going to take it to the American people. We’re going to go
around the country making our case.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  