-- Oil Caps Longest Run of Weekly Gains in 14 Months
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-01-18T21:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/oil-heads-for-longest-run-of-weekly-gains-in-14-months.html
Oil capped the longest weekly
winning streak in 14 months in  New York  as  House Republicans 
planned a vote next week on a three-month extension of the U.S.
borrowing authority.  Prices rose 7 cents as the Republicans dropped their
insistence that a short-term continuation be accompanied by a
dollar-for-dollar government spending cut. Economic growth
accelerated in  China , the world’s second-biggest oil-consuming
country. Oil fell earlier as the euro weakened versus the dollar
and U.S. consumer sentiment unexpectedly declined.  “The debt ceiling is definitely what’s moving the market
right now,” said Bill Baruch, a senior market strategist at
Iitrader.com in  Chicago . “We keep pushing everything off to
forget about it right now and worry about it later. China’s GDP
number is quite solid. The path of least resistance for oil is
higher.”  West Texas Intermediate crude for February delivery
increased to $95.56 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the highest settlement since Sept. 17. Prices advanced
2.1 percent since Jan. 11, the sixth weekly gain and the longest
streak since November 2011.  Floor trading will be closed Jan. 21 for Martin Luther King
Jr. Day.  Brent for March settlement rose 79 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to $111.89 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a premium of
$15.86 to WTI futures for the same month. The gap was $15.16
yesterday, the narrowest closing level since July 24.  WTI trading volume was 9.3 percent above the 100-day
average at 4:33 p.m. in New York. Brent volume was 3.3 percent
more than the average.  Debt Ceiling  The Treasury Department has said the U.S. will exceed its
$16.4 trillion borrowing authority sometime between mid-February
to early March.  House Speaker  John Boehner  said the Republican leadership
is trying to force the Democratic-controlled Senate to adopt a
budget plan. Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia said in a
statement that members of Congress won’t be paid if the House or
Senate doesn’t pass a budget by the end of the proposed three-
month debt-limit increase.  “We are going to pursue strategies that will obligate the
Senate to finally join the House in confronting the government’s
spending problem,” Boehner, a Republican from  Ohio , said in a
statement today.  Oil also gained as China’s gross domestic product rose 7.9
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, compared with
7.4 percent in the previous period, the National Bureau of
Statistics in Beijing reported today. The  growth  rate beat the
7.8 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Chinese Growth  “The data out of China have been good and people are
continuing to be more bullish about the economy,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester,  Massachusetts .  Oil advanced 1.3 percent yesterday, the biggest one-day
gain since Jan. 2, after U.S. builders broke ground on more
houses than forecast and jobless claims dropped to a five-year
low.  “We had already priced in a lot of the economic data,”
said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-
based hedge fund that focuses on energy.  The  International Energy Agency  boosted its 2013 global
demand forecast by 240,000 barrels a day today because of
stronger growth expectations for China. World consumption will
average a record 90.8 million.  China will use 390,000 barrels a day, or 4 percent, more
oil this year than in 2012, to reach 10 million a day, according
to the adviser to energy-consuming nations.  Euro Declines  Oil touched an intraday low of $94.91 a barrel as the euro
declined. Europe’s shared currency dropped as much as 0.7
percent to $1.328. A weaker euro and stronger dollar reduce
dollar-denominated oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  “We are seeing some money being taken off the table after
yesterday’s run-up,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the
Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Certainly the
dollar strength is bearish for oil.”  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
January  consumer sentiment  index decreased to 71.3 from 72.9 the
prior month. The gauge was projected to climb to 75, according
to the median forecast of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The market is going to move back and forth on economic
indicators,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The strong dollar
probably prompted a little bit of profit-taking.”  Oil Demand  U.S. oil demand fell to the lowest level in 16 years in
2012 while domestic output surged the most in more than 150
years, the  American Petroleum Institute  said today.  Total petroleum deliveries, a measure of demand, dropped 2
percent from 2011 to 18.6 million barrels a day last year, the
lowest level since 1996, the industry-funded group said in a
monthly report today.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 496,243
contracts as of 4:34 p.m. Volume totaled 730,459 contracts
yesterday, 49 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.51 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at  