-- Oil-Tanker Returns Plunge Most This Year on Dearth of Cargoes
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-01-18T16:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/oil-tanker-returns-plunge-most-this-year-on-dearth-of-cargoes.html
Returns for the largest  oil tankers 
on the industry’s busiest trade route, linking the Middle East
and  Asia , plunged the most this year as traders booked the ships
they needed for January with vessels left to spare.  Daily  earnings  for very large crude carriers on the
benchmark route between  Saudi Arabia  and  Japan  slumped 13
percent to $10,055, figures from the London-based Baltic
Exchange showed today. That was the biggest drop since Nov. 28
and the 15th in 16 sessions.  Demand to hire VLCCs was “moderate” in the  Persian Gulf 
this week, according to New York-based investment bank Dahlman
Rose & Co. Each of the vessels can hold 2 million barrels of
crude. Charterers are finishing loading this month’s cargoes in
the  Middle East , curbing tanker bookings, Oslo-based RS Platou
Markets said in an e-mailed report today.  “Activity has slowed as the January cargo program ends,”
Platou said. “Early February cargoes have been met by
sufficient ship availability.”  Charter rates for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage slid 1.2
percent to 40.09 Worldscale points, the exchange said. That was
a fifth successive decline and left hire costs down 6.1 percent
for the week.  The combined carrying capacity of the world’s VLCCs will
expand 5.3 percent this year, below demand growth of 6.3
percent, according to estimates from Clarkson Research Services
Ltd., a unit of the largest global shipbroker.  Marine Fuel  The exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed
at curbing use of ship fuel, or bunkers, the industry’s biggest
expense. The price of fuel added 0.4 percent to $623.78 a metric
ton, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 40.09 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, was
unchanged at 630, according to the exchange. That snapped a 15-
session losing streak, the longest since a run of declines that
ended April 14, 2011, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  