-- Holder Says Assault Weapons Ban and Ammo Limits Essential
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-01-18T19:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/holder-says-assault-weapons-ban-and-ammo-limits-essential.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
said President  Barack Obama ’s proposals to ban high-capacity
magazines and assault weapons are “essential” to any effort to
combat gun attacks.  Holder called on Congress to swiftly pass an expansion of
the background check system for gun purchases and pushed
lawmakers vote for Obama’s other gun proposals as well.  “These measures represent essential parts of any serious,
comprehensive effort to eradicate violence,” Holder, 61, said
today at a meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors in
 Washington .  A month after the shooting that killed 20 students and six
educators at a Connecticut elementary school, Obama this week
laid out proposals to regulate guns. He asked Congress to pass
legislation to reinstate a ban on sales of assault weapons,
limit high-capacity ammunition clips, and mandate background
checks for all gun buyers.  U.S. lawmakers, in the midst of dealing with deadlines to
fund the government, prevent across-the-board cuts to defense
spending and raise the debt-ceiling, have given mixed reviews to
the Obama proposals. While some Democrats in both chambers have
embraced the push and planned legislation and hearings,
Republicans, who control the House, and Senate Democrats facing
re-election have taken a more reluctant approach and voiced
concern about the proposals threatening individual’s rights.  Bloomberg Pushes  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , a proponent of tougher
gun laws and co-chairman of Mayors Against Illegal Guns, also
urged city leaders to press Congress to pass Obama’s proposals.
The measures would reduce gun crimes and suicides, he said.  After Colorado expanded its background check requirements,
fewer guns from the state turned up at crime scenes in other
states, he said. The 1994 assault weapon ban also lessened their
use in crimes before it was allowed to expire in 2004, he said.  “We need to tell our members of Congress that they’ve got
to stand up for sensible gun laws and if they do that, we will
stand up for them,” Bloomberg said at the mayors’ meeting.
“And if they don’t, we will stand up for whoever runs against
them -- because that’s exactly what the NRA is trying to do.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Tough Votes  Holder acknowledged the difficulty some lawmakers face in
voting to tighten regulations on guns as they prepare for 2014
re-election races. He asked them to support the proposal despite
the risk.  “There come times when those of us who are in elected or
appointed positions must put the interests of those we are
privileged to serve above that which might be politically
expedient or professionally safe,” Holder said.  Obama, when he unveiled the proposals on Jan. 16, also
announced 23 executive actions related to guns, many of which
the  Justice Department  is required to implement. Those actions
require Holder to review of the categories of people barred from
purchasing guns and issue reports on lost or stolen guns and new
gun safety technologies.  The actions have drawn Republican criticism for
circumventing the legislative process. Senator  Marco Rubio , a
Florida Republican, said in a statement that Obama was “abusing
his power by imposing his policies via executive fiat instead of
allowing them to be debated in Congress.”  Holder defended Obama’s move.  “Not one of the Executive Orders –- contrary to what a few
have said -– impinges upon anyone’s Second Amendment rights or
is inconsistent with the historical use of executive power,”
Holder said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  