-- Moneysupermarket Extends Gains on Analyst Targets: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-01-18T16:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/moneysupermarket-extends-gains-on-analyst-targets-london-mover.html
Moneysupermarket.com Group Plc (MONY) , the
U.K.’s largest price-comparison website, extended gains after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said concern about competition from  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  was excessive.  The  stock  rose 2.2 percent to 184.2 pence, the highest
price since November 2007, in  London . Trading volume was more
than five times the three-month daily average. The shares have
gained 16 percent since the Chester, England-based company said
a week ago that 2012 earnings would beat analyst estimates.  “Recent news flow underlines our view that concerns over
competition from Google appear largely overdone,” Marcus Diebel, an analyst at JP Morgan, said in a note to clients
yesterday. “We see ongoing earnings upside risk.”  Google, which is under investigation by the European Union
over allegations that it promotes its own specialist search
services over rivals, started a credit-card price comparison
website in March and a car insurance site in September.
Moneysupermarket is confident that the competition won’t reduce
profits even if it eats into sales, Chief Executive Officer
Peter Plumb said in an interview in November.  The shares have surged 32 percent in the past three months,
seven times the 4.6 percent gain in the FTSE All-Share Index.
Since the company’s Jan. 11 trading statement, at least six
analysts have raised their 12-month share price targets. Diebel,
who has an overweight  recommendation  on Moneysupermarket, raised
his target to 212 pence, the highest of any of the 13 analysts
tracked by Bloomberg who cover the stock.  Laptops, Tablets  Investors are missing the fact that Moneysupermarket is
also likely to gain further market share as consumers switch
from personal computers and laptops to mobile and tablet
devices, Diebel said.  Moneysupermarket may also have scope to pay a higher
dividend than investors expect, he said. The valuation still
looked attractive at a time when annualized  earnings  before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are set to
increase by more than 20 percent between 2012 and 2014, Diebel
said.  Moneysupermarket covers all the main price comparison
sites, including money, insurance, travel and energy, unlike
rivals such as  Gocompare ,  Comparethemarket  and  Uswitch .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  