-- Long-Term Gains Preferred as New U.S. Law Hits Top Earner
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-01-18T16:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/long-term-gains-preferred-as-new-u-s-law-hits-top-earner.html
Financial advisers are devising
playbooks for top U.S. earners to help them minimize the effects
of various higher  taxes  taking effect in 2013.  “I think about it as an obstacle course,” said Sandi Bragar, director of planning at Los Angeles-based Aspiriant, a
wealth-advisory firm with more than $7 billion in assets under
management. “You have to figure out what to duck under.”  Top earners this year face tax-rate increases and some
limits on deductions from the budget agreement the  U.S. Congress 
passed Jan. 1 as well as new taxes from the 2010 health-care
law. Advisers are recommending strategies such as shifting
investments, donating stock directly to charities and maximizing
contributions to  retirement plans .  “There are definitely some things we are talking to our
clients about,” because of the tax law changes, said  Chris Johnson , a director in the wealth and investment management
division of London-based  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  “I think you’re going to
see a shift in behavior.”  The ladder of tax increases affecting high earners is
complicated because there are several rungs, some of which are
based on taxable income and others on adjusted gross income,
Bragar said. The added bite will affect taxes they pay for 2013,
and not the current filing season that starts this month.  Personal Exemptions  The top federal income-tax rate of 39.6 percent -- up from
35 percent -- starts at taxable income exceeding $450,000 a year
for married couples and $400,000 for individuals. Those same
earners will pay as much as 23.8 percent on long-term  capital
gains  and dividends this year compared with a maximum 15 percent
last year. That includes a new  3.8 percent  surtax on investment
income as a result of the 2010 health-care law.  Congress also reinstated limits for this year on the value
of personal exemptions and deductions, known as Pep and Pease,
which affect married couples with adjusted gross income of more
than $300,000 a year or $250,000 for singles.  Consider a married couple with $1 million in combined
income and deductions of $90,000 for their state income taxes,
$50,000 in charitable donations and $50,000 in mortgage
interest, or a total of $190,000. With the Pease limitation,
they lose $21,000 in available deductions, said Johnson, who is
based in New York.  “There may be some interesting tradeoffs,” he said.  High earners may curtail their donations or consider the
mortgage-interest deduction when deciding how much of a loan to
take, if the limits make their interest payments less valuable
for tax purposes, he said. Some homeowners may choose to
restructure their mortgages through refinancing, he said.  ‘Asset Location’  For top earners with investments there’s a renewed focus on
tax efficiency because of higher rates, said Mitchell Drossman,
national director of wealth planning strategies for U.S. Trust,
a unit of  Bank of America Corp.   “Part of it is  asset allocation  and part of it is asset
location,” he said.  Long-term capital gains, or those on investments held more
than a year, still receive preferential tax treatment though
Congress raised the top rate to 20 percent from 15 percent in
the budget deal.  By comparison, some  hedge funds  trade frequently and
generate short-term gains, which are taxed as ordinary income at
rates as high as 39.6 percent, plus a 3.8 percent Medicare
surtax. “That’s highly tax inefficient,” Drossman said.  Ordinary Rates  Investors should consider purchasing assets that generate
income taxed at ordinary rates including high-yield and
emerging-market debt through tax-deferred retirement plans. They
should also buy tax-efficient assets such as municipal bonds and
commodities through a taxable account, said Dean Junkans, chief
investment officer at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s private bank.  “The cost of ignoring those strategies has gone up for a
lot of investors,” Junkans said.  Top earners who want to shift investments from taxable
accounts to tax-deferred ones, or vice versa, have to plan ahead
-- often over a span of more than one year, Junkans said.
Transfers may involve liquidating some holdings, which can
generate their own tax consequences, he said.  A focus for high earners should be to harvest losses
throughout the year to offset later gains, said Bragar of
Aspiriant. “That’s one of the everyday blocking and tackling
that every investor can do” to save on taxes this year or in
the future, she said.  401(k) Contributions  Taxpayers can deduct up to  $3,000  a year of capital losses
that exceed capital gains to reduce ordinary income. They also
can carry forward an unlimited amount of excess losses to offset
gains in subsequent years, according to Internal Revenue Service
rules.  Maximizing contributions to retirement accounts such as a
401(k) plan can help families reduce their income, said Susan
Bruno, an accountant and financial planner at Beacon Wealth
Consulting LLC. “Sometimes that’s overlooked,” she said.
“People are too busy.”  A 401(k) plan generally lets employees defer a portion of
their wages to the account on a pretax basis. Contributions are
limited to  $17,500  for 2013, while those age 50 or older may set
aside an additional $5,500, according to the IRS.  Charitable IRA  Top earners who are charitable should give appreciated
property such as stocks held for more than a year to an eligible
charity directly, advisers say. That way they don’t have to pay
tax on the gains and would receive a deduction for the fair
market value of the securities, said Bragar of Aspiriant.  Clients with charitable intent who are trying to keep their
income below some of the thresholds for rate increases also
should consider a  charitable distribution  from their individual
retirement accounts, as it can reduce their income for tax
purposes, Bragar said. Congress extended the benefit through
2013, which lets people older than 70 1/2 transfer up to
$100,000 from their IRAs directly to charity.  Getting the most out of such strategies requires planning
throughout this year, Bragar said.  “It’s like a game of tax limbo,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  