-- Mongolia Defends Draft Mining Law Branded as Bad for Investment
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-01-18T20:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/mongolia-defends-draft-mining-law-branded-as-bad-for-investment.html
Mongolian officials held a briefing
yesterday to defend proposed changes to a mining law that the
country’s biggest business association says would deter
investment.  Puntsag Tsagaan, the mineral policy adviser to President
 Tsakhia Elbegdorj  who led the legislation’s drafting, said the
proposed law would strengthen the economy, better protect the
environment and ensure Mongolians benefit from the country’s
mining boom, according to James Liotta, a partner at Mahoney
Liotta LLC, who attended the meeting in the capital Ulan Bator.
Representatives of  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) ,  Aspire Mining Ltd. (AKM)  and
 Centerra Gold Inc. (CG)  were among the attendees, Liotta said.  The briefing was held after the Business Council of
Mongolia sent Elbegdorj a letter on Jan. 7 saying the proposed
law would halt current minerals exploration and discourage
investment. Private-equity firm  Origo Partners (OPP) , which owns more
than $100 million of mining assets in Mongolia, said this past
week the president may have drafted the law to bolster his
popularity before elections in June.  “The president showed some courage to open this up,” said
Liotta, who has represented companies including  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) 
and Peabody. “Now we wait to see if he shows leadership to get
a proper draft law that is acceptable.” Elbegdorj didn’t attend
yesterday’s event, Liotta said by e-mail.  Sukhbaatar Erdenebold, Elbegdorj’s spokesman, didn’t
immediately answer calls to his office and mobile phone after
normal business hours yesterday. Baatar Bulganbayar, an
assistant to Tsagaan, the mineral policy adviser, confirmed
Liotta’s account of the briefing.  Minerals Law  Mongolia’s current minerals law was passed in 2006 and is
the basis for the Oyu Tolgoi investment agreement between  Rio
Tinto , the owner of 66 percent of the project, and Mongolia,
which has the rest, according to Mongolia International Capital
Corp., an Ulan Bator-based investment bank.  The proposed legislation, which will give the state the
right to a free stake in many mineral projects, will take the
country away from the free-market principles practiced there
since the early 1990s, the Mongolian business council said in a
Jan. 7 letter to Elbegdorj’s office. The group has 250 members
including Rio Tinto, Peabody, General Electric Co. and
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)   Dash Bat-Erdene, head of geology at Ulan Bator-based Biluut
Mining and a member of the group that drafted the proposed law,
said Mongolia’s earlier laws were designed to attract foreign
investment. In addition to creating jobs and bringing in foreign
capital and technology, they also led to speculation, tensions
with local communities and corruption, he said. The proposed law
seeks to fix that, Bat-Erdene said at the meeting yesterday,
according to Liotta.  Investor Note  Origo Partners, in a Jan. 14 note to investors, said it
expected that a final draft of the law will be submitted to the
spring session of parliament in April. Mongolia passed
legislation ahead of parliamentary elections last year
increasing the government’s ability to regulate foreign
companies.  Presidential adviser Tsagaan said yesterday that the
proposed law isn’t politically motivated and that there’s no
hurry to approve it before presidential elections scheduled for
June, according Liotta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Singapore at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  