-- Montblanc, Eustis Warm Up for Inauguration: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-01-18T22:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/montblanc-eustis-warm-up-for-inauguration-d-c-scene.html
Montblanc North America’s president
and chief executive officer, Jan-Patrick Schmitz, celebrated
pens and a few dead presidents last night at the St. Regis
Hotel.  It was one of the early events for the busy weekend leading
up to President Barack Obama’s inauguration.  The artistic director of New York’s Public Theater,  Oskar
Eustis , revealed that his close friend Tony Kushner wrote his
acclaimed screenplay of “Lincoln” in long hand using a
Montblanc pen.  Montblanc created a collector’s-edition pen inspired by
 Abraham Lincoln  in an edition of 50 that sold out immediately.
The $35,700 pen and counterparts representing  Thomas Jefferson ,
 John Adams , and James Madison were displayed in glass cases in a
Montblanc pop-up shop in the St. Regis lobby, where cocktails
and crab cakes were served.  Guests admiring the pens included historian Sally Bedell Smith and her husband, Washington Examiner editor  Stephen Smith .  The writing instruments are part of Montblanc’s Signatures
for Freedom series, which started in 2007. Schmitz keeps a
Montblanc Albert Einstein pen in his suit pocket because of his
German heritage.  Lewis Lapham , who provides a weekly interview and podcast
for Bloomberg News, introduced his new book, “Presidential
Miscellany,” published by Thornwillow Press under the patronage
of Montblanc.  He and Eustis read quotes from the book such as, “The pay
is good and I get to walk to work,” from  John F. Kennedy .  ‘Fun Stuff’  Lapham said those looking for a whiff of scandal will be
disappointed by the book, which is more about “fun stuff”:
meals, pets and hobbies.  Guests, who were given recipes for presidential cocktails -
- such as Andrew Jackson’s inaugural orange punch -- in their
swag bags, were asked to write notes of congratulations to Obama
using Montblanc pens. The St. Regis butler will deliver the
missives to 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. next week.  There’s something for everyone at this year’s round of
inaugural parties.  For foodies, chef Art Smith, who honed his skills in Oprah Winfrey’s kitchen, will throw the Chefs Ball at his restaurant
Art and Soul on Capitol Hill Saturday night, with local chefs
cooking and proceeds benefitting various charities.  For the environmentalist, there’s the Green Ball at the
Newseum Sunday evening, where policy wonks and scientists will
converge.  ‘Boots Ball’  For urban cowboys and cowgirls, the Texas State Society of
Washington hosts Saturday night’s “Black Tie & Boots Ball” at
Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center.  For anglophiles, British Ambassador  Peter Westmacott  is
hosting a Saturday afternoon inaugural tea at his residence, and
fellow Briton Tina Brown, the editor-in-chief and founder of
Newsweek/Daily Beast Co., is throwing a brunch at Cafe Milano on
Sunday.  The Hollywood crowd is expected at two Monday night events,
the Creative Coalition Ball at the Harman Center for the Arts
and the Young and Powerful Black Tie Gala at the Mansion on O
Street, where John Legend, Vivica Fox and Cory Booker are
expected to make appearances.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  theater ,  Greg
Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on  movies .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 