-- OPEC December Output Falls to Year-Low on Saudi Cuts: IEA
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-01-18T12:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/opec-december-output-falls-to-year-low-on-saudi-cuts-iea.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries pumped at the lowest level in a year in
December on reduced output from  Saudi Arabia  and Iraq, its two
largest producers, the  International Energy Agency  said.  Production from OPEC’s 12 members, which together supply
about 40 percent of the world’s oil, fell to 30.64 million
barrels a day in December, from 30.9 million the previous month,
the Paris-based IEA said. Output exceeded the group’s quota
target of 30 million barrels a day.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, reduced
production to 9.36 million barrels a day last month, from 9.65
million in November, the agency said today in its monthly Oil
Market Report.  The kingdom’s output was “down 600,000 barrels a day from
October’s lofty 9.95 million barrels a day, when crude exports
surged to  China ,” it said. “The downturn in production
reflects a myriad of fundamental developments, not least of
which is the country’s sharply lower seasonal domestic demand.”  Supply from Iraq, the group’s second-largest producer, fell
for the first time in five months, the agency said. It pumped
2.97 million barrels a day, 7 percent less than in November.
Iraq’s output remained higher than Iran’s for a seventh month.  Nigeria’s monthly output increased to 2.1 million barrels a
day from November’s 1.88 million. Production in the country
rebounded after the end of the rainy season, which had caused
the worst flooding in about 50 years, the IEA said.  Hostage Taking  Production in  Algeria  was unchanged at 1.18 million barrels
a day in December, the report showed, with the figures covering
the month before the recent hostage situation at a  gas field  in
the country.  “The 16 January kidnapping and murder of foreign oil
workers at the In Amenas gas field has cast a dark cloud over
the outlook for the country’s energy sector,” the agency said.
“Production at the field was shut-in, including an estimated
50,000 barrels a day of condensate.”  OPEC’s members are Algeria,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The group meets next in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  