-- Bill Gates Group Invests $1 Billion in Orascom Construction
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-01-19T16:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/orascom-construction-gets-2-billion-from-bill-gates-investors.html
Bill Gates  is leading a group of
U.S. investors committing $1 billion for a stake in construction
and fertilizer company OCI NV in one of  Egypt ’s largest foreign
currency inflows since the 2011 uprising.  OCI will absorb all local stock and global depositary
receipts of Orascom Construction Industries under a share
exchange offer that has attracted more than $2 billion in
commitments, said the company, which is relocating from Cairo to
Amsterdam. Its shares will be traded in both locations.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder Gates’ Cascade Investment LLC
joins Southeastern Asset Management and Davis Selected Advisers
in helping fund expansion in Egyptian infrastructure projects as
well as other activities. The Sawiris family and Dubai-based
buyout firm Abraaj Group, which together owned 60 percent of
Orascom, will take part in the tender.  “The transaction underpins genuine investor appetite to
invest in Egypt,” said  Nassef Sawiris , who was chief executive
of Orascom and will be an executive director of OCI. “Unlike
local shareholders who monitor events on a daily basis,
sophisticated investors see the evolution of democracy having a
long-term positive impact on the economy.”  Laura Berger, a spokeswoman for Davis Selected Advisers,
declined to comment on why the firm invested in OCI.  Michael
Larson , who manages Cascade for Gates, and Lee Harper, a
spokeswoman for Southeastern, didn’t immediately return calls.  Market Access  A listing on the NYSE Euronext Amsterdam will allow OCI
“deeper access to  capital markets  such as the Eurobond
market,” it said in a statement today. “In addition, the
company expects to attain higher credit ratings from global
rating agencies facilitating its debt financing.”  Orascom Constructions Industries’ third-quarter net income
declined 31 percent to $126.8 million after booking provisions
linked to several projects.  The Egyptian economy has struggled to recover from the
chaos that followed the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  as
foreign direct investments tumbled. The government is in talks
with the  International Monetary Fund  for a $4.8 billion loan to
help stem the decline in foreign-currency reserves.  Gross domestic product may expand 3 percent in the fiscal
year that ends in June 2013, according to the median estimate of
11 economists on Bloomberg. The economy expanded about 5 percent
in the year preceding the uprising.  Egyptian Listing  Orascom is Egypt’s biggest publicly traded company. After
exchanging their GDRs for OCI shares, the Sawiris family and
Abraaj Group expect to at least maintain their holdings relative
to their Orascom stakes, according to a statement.  The deal includes a mandatory offer to exchange all  Orascom
Construction ’s Cairo-listed shares for OCI stock or 280 Egyptian
pounds each, according to the filing.  OCI plans first to trade on NYSE Euronext in Amsterdam and
will follow with a U.S. depository receipts program in  New York .
The company is “committed to an active listing in Egypt, either
directly or through Egyptian depository receipts,” Sawiris said
in a telephone interview.  Allen & Co, Barclays Plc,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Rabobank
International acted as international advisers, while Cairo-based
CI Capital Investment Banking was the exclusive local financial
adviser, according to the filing.  Michael Bennett, former CEO of Terra Industries, will serve
as chairman of OCI. Jan Alberts Ter Wisch, former partner at
Allen & Overy LLP, and Abraaj founder Arif Naqvi will act as
non-executive independent directors. Sawiris and  Salman Butt ,
Orascom’s chief finance officer, will be executive directors.  “As you can see from the number of bankers and advisers,
this has been a process that took quite a few months,” Sawiris
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  