-- Orascom to Acquire Wind Mobile Control in Canada Law Test
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-01-18T19:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/orascom-to-acquire-wind-mobile-control-in-canada-law-test.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , an
Egyptian wireless carrier, agreed to acquire shares of Canadian
mobile phone startup Wind Mobile to gain voting control, the
first test of the nation’s newly relaxed foreign-ownership laws.  Anthony Lacavera , Wind Mobile’s founder, is transferring
his shares in the carrier to Orascom while retaining a
“substantial economic” stake in the company, he said in an
interview today. Financial terms of the deal, which will leave
Orascom with a 99.3 percent indirect stake in Wind Mobile parent
Globalive Wireless Management Corp., weren’t disclosed.  Canada’s main telecommunications regulator said in March it
will allow foreign companies to buy operators with less than 10
percent of market share by revenue to stimulate competition by
providing access to outside capital.  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,
 BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Telus Corp. (T) , Canada’s three largest carriers,
control more than 90 percent of the market by subscribers.  Globalive, backed by Orascom, paid C$442 million ($445
million) in 2008 for Canadian wireless airwave licenses to start
its mobile-phone business, later sparking a two-year legal
battle to show that it wasn’t in violation of  Canada ’s foreign-
ownership laws. The company was ultimately successful in winning
court approval to continue operating in the country.  The transaction with Lacavera depends upon Orascom’s
ability to win regulatory approval for the conversion of its
nonvoting shares into voting shares, Toronto-based Wind Mobile
said in a statement. Orascom will seek permission to increase
its voting stake to 65.1 percent from 32 percent before it
acquires Lacavera’s shares, Wind Mobile said.  Remaining CEO  Lacavera said he’ll remain as Wind Mobile’s chief executive
officer until the transaction receives regulatory approval,
which he estimated would happen later this year.  He chose to sell his shares now because he achieved his
goal of creating “a competitive wireless dynamic in Canada,”
he said.  Wind Mobile now has more than 600,000 subscribers, with
between 80 percent and 90 percent of new customers signing up
for long-term contracts instead of prepaid plans, Lacavera said.  The new business he’s starting, Globalive Capital, aims to
address a shortage of  venture capital  available to technology,
media and telecommunications startups in Canada. It will use
both the firm’s money and some outside partners.  “There’s great VC for mining and resources here but not in
TMT,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  