-- Morgan Stanley Seeks Fed Approval for Buying Rest of Brokerage
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-18T14:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/morgan-stanley-seeks-fed-approval-for-buying-rest-of-brokerage.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  is seeking Federal
Reserve approval to buy the remaining 35 percent of its
brokerage joint venture with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  this year.  The company didn’t ask for any additional return of capital
to shareholders, Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said today
in an interview. The firm had a 9.5 percent Tier 1 common ratio
under Basel III rules as of Dec. 31, above its 8.5 percent
requirement under guidelines set out by Financial Stability
Board last year, she said.  “There’s a time for returning capital, but given the
importance of the wealth management joint venture, that’s our
first priority,” said Porat, 55. “Longer-term, we are focused
on returning capital to shareholders, whether in the form of
share repurchases or dividends.”  Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 54, has already set a
price with Citigroup to purchase the remainder of the brokerage
venture, which was created in 2009. Morgan Stanley will pay $4.7
billion for the last piece, and that stake will use an
additional $400 million of capital, the firm said in a
presentation today.  Morgan Stanley will earn about $400 million in 2013 from
buying the rest of the brokerage, as the company eliminates non-
controlling interest payments to Citigroup and benefits from
more retail orders and deposits, it said.  The bank’s wealth-management business had a pretax margin
of 17 percent in the fourth quarter, the highest since the joint
venture was formed and ahead of its goal of mid-teens by the
middle of this year. The unit, which had $3.46 billion in
revenue, benefited from lower integration expenses and a lower-
than-normal compensation rate, Porat said.  Morgan Stanley had $460 billion of Basel III risk-weighted
assets, Porat said. That’s down from $500 billion at the end of
June. The firm today accelerated its goals for cutting RWAs in
its fixed-income business, saying it already reached $280
billion, its previous target for the end of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  