-- Morgan Stanley Shares Climb as Brokerage Profit Doubles
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-18T21:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/morgan-stanley-beats-estimates-on-increase-in-brokerage-revenue.html
Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s
biggest brokerage, rose the most in seven months after earnings
from that business more than doubled and the firm reached
profit-margin targets six months ahead of schedule.  Morgan Stanley  surged  7.9 percent to $22.38 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York, the biggest gain since June 6. The shares closed at
the highest level since July 27, 2011.  The brokerage’s improved profitability strengthens Chief
Executive Officer James Gorman’s plan to boost returns as he
requests regulatory approval to buy Citigroup Inc.’s remaining
35 percent stake in the business. Earnings at the brokerage, run
by Greg Fleming, increased to $385 million in the fourth quarter
and the pretax profit margin rose to 17 percent from 7 percent a
year earlier.  “We’re seeing the margins move up on wealth management,
that’s the encouraging thing,” Brad Hintz, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a Bloomberg Radio interview.
“If he’s getting a 17 percent pretax margin in retail without
the flow, this implies that when retail comes back, that’s when
the margins really pop.”  Fleming, 49, previously vowed to raise his unit’s pretax
margin to the “mid-teens” by the middle of this year, and said
last month that the increase can be obtained through cost
cutting as integration expenses decline. The figure was 13
percent in the third quarter, excluding a one-time charge.  Job Cuts  Gorman, 54, is reducing costs through job cuts and pay
deferrals, a strategy that helped fuel a 28 percent jump in the
stock price in the past two months before today.  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
finished integrating its brokerage unit with Citigroup’s Smith
Barney in July.  Fourth-quarter net income was $507 million, or 25 cents a
share, compared with a loss of $250 million, or 15 cents, a year
earlier, the company said today in a statement. Excluding
accounting charges tied to the firm’s own debt, profit was 45
cents a share, beating the 27-cent average  estimate  of 24
analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “We’ve done a lot of building, and it’s at the point now
where we feel we’re pivoting from those cleanups and building
activities to now just running the business,” Gorman said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “If anything can get management
excited, it’s about looking forward and actually running the
business, rather than looking backwards and trying to solve
things from the past.”  Revenue Gains  Revenue excluding accounting adjustments climbed to $7.48
billion from $5.46 billion a year earlier, when the firm booked
a $1.7 billion loss related to a settlement with bond insurer
 MBIA Inc. (MBI)  Book value per share rose to $30.65 from $30.53 at the
end of September. The firm’s return on equity, a measure of how
well it reinvests earnings, was 3 percent.  The accounting charge is known as a debt-valuation
adjustment, or DVA. It stems from increases in the value of the
company’s debt, under the theory it would be more expensive to
buy it back. The firm booked a $2.3 billion charge in the third
quarter as its credit spreads tightened.  Daniel Loeb’s Third Point LLC said this month it bought a
stake in the firm, betting the shares may double as brokerage
margins improve and management devises a “bold fix” for the
bond-trading business.  Finding that solution falls to Colm Kelleher, who took
control of the entire investment-banking and trading division
this year as his co-head, Paul J. Taubman, 52, retired from that
role. Kelleher, 55, is trying to boost the firm’s returns by
cutting costs and reducing the amount of capital used by the
trading business.  Fixed Income  Fourth-quarter revenue from fixed-income sales and trading,
run by Ken deRegt with commodity trading co-heads Colin Bryce
and  Simon Greenshields , was $811 million, excluding DVA. That
missed estimates of $1.24 billion from JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
Kian Abouhossein and $1.1 billion from Credit Suisse Group AG’s
Howard Chen.  Fixed-income revenue fell 44 percent from $1.46 billion in
the third quarter. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s fixed-income
revenue, excluding DVA, dropped 14 percent from the previous
quarter to $2.12 billion, the company said Jan. 16. Citigroup’s
declined 27 percent to $2.71 billion, while JPMorgan Chase & Co.
posted a 15 percent drop to $3.18 billion.  Banks including UBS AG have announced plans to exit some
fixed-income businesses or shrink those units in response to
higher capital requirements and lower revenue. Gorman said he
has no plans to exit the business.  ‘Completely Foolish’  “It would be completely foolish for Morgan Stanley to even
approach that concept,” Gorman said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television with  Erik Schatzker .  Gorman’s strategy is to cut in half the capital required to
run the fixed-income business by 2016, from $35 billion in the
third quarter of 2011 to less than $18 billion. He called that
plan “very bold.”  In equities trading, headed by Ted Pick, Morgan Stanley’s
revenue fell less than 1 percent from a year earlier to $1.27
billion, excluding DVA. That was a 4 percent increase from the
third quarter’s $1.23 billion, and compared with $713 million at
Bank of America Corp. and $895 million at JPMorgan. Brad Hintz,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., had estimated revenue
of $985 million, while Chen at Credit Suisse estimated $1.2
billion.  Morgan Stanley is eliminating 1,600 jobs from its
investment-banking division and support staff, after reducing
the number of employees by about 4,200 in the first nine months
of 2012. It’s also deferring all bonuses for top earners, which
will reduce compensation costs recognized in 2012.  ‘Very Comfortable’  Gorman said in today’s interview he’s “very comfortable”
with headcount at the firm.  The firm generated $1.23 billion in fourth-quarter revenue
from investment banking. That figure, up 39 percent from a year
earlier, included $454 million from financial advisory, $237
million from equity underwriting and $534 million from debt
underwriting.  The company plans to cut risk-weighted assets within fixed-
income and commodities. The firm has already reached its goal
for 2013, which was $280 billion, down from $390 billion in the
third quarter of 2011, the firm said in a presentation today.
Morgan Stanley will continue cutting assets to arrive at less
than $200 billion by 2016, according to the presentation.  Asset management reported a pretax gain of $221 million,
compared with $78 million in the previous year’s period.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Morgan Stanley’s debt from losses
for five years fell to the lowest since June 2011. Credit-
default swaps on the company’s debt declined 5.8 basis points to
154.68 basis points as of 3:50 p.m. in New York, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  