-- Tortilla-Maker Gruma Climbs to 16-Year High in Mexico
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e
-- 2013-01-18T22:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/tortilla-maker-gruma-climbs-to-16-year-high-in-mexico.html
Gruma SAB (GRUMAB) , the world’s largest
tortilla maker, rose to a 16-year high on speculation that the
company might cancel repurchased shares in a sign of confidence
in growing demand for the flat round cakes of corn and flour.  The San Pedro Garza Garcia-based company’s shares advanced
2.5 percent to 43.88 pesos at the close of trading in Mexico
City, the highest price since January 1997. The stock rose 48
percent in in 2012.  Gruma last month agreed to spend as much as $510 million to
buy out a 23 percent stake held by Decatur, Illinois-based corn
processor  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  Some investors may now be
betting that the company will cancel the repurchased shares,
said Miguel Mayorga, an analyst at the Mexico City-based
brokerage GBM SAB. That could be a signal the company won’t need
new equity financing anytime soon.  Canceling repurchased shares would show “confidence and
commitment,” said Mayorga, who rates the stock the equivalent
of buy. The company has “strong fundamentals behind a growing
tortilla market in the U.S. and across Mexico.”  E-mail and voice-mail messages left with Gruma spokesman
 Pedro Rodriguez , weren’t immediately returned.  Gruma said in the December announcement that it would
finance the share repurchase through bridge loans led by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and a revolving credit with Bank of America
Corp.  The tortilla maker’s geographical diversification adds to
the company’s allure, according to Jorge Lagunas, who oversees
$200 million in stocks at Mexico City-based Grupo Financiero
Interacciones SA.  Gruma’s growth potential in  Latin America  is “amazing,”
Lagunas said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s a very
good option for investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Verbrigghe in  New York  at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  