-- Housing Industry Awaits Down-Payment Rule for Mortgages
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/housing-industry-awaits-down-payment-rule-for-mortgages.html
As bankers, real estate agents and
others in the housing industry absorb thousands of pages of
mortgage rules issued in the past week, they’re still waiting to
see if U.S. regulators will set a minimum down payment for home
loans.  Regulators including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
and the  Federal Reserve  drew protests in 2011 when they proposed
a rule requiring lenders to keep a stake in mortgages with down
payments of less than 20 percent. Bankers and consumer groups
said such a requirement would shut creditworthy borrowers out of
the market.  Now, regulators say they expect to release a final version
of that so-called Qualified Residential Mortgage rule in the
next few months. Together, the QRM rule and additional measures
governing underwriting and servicing released by the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau in the past week will fundamentally
reshape who can lend and who can borrow because banks will
probably make only those loans that conform to the new
standards.  “I have consistently warned of the regulatory tidal wave
to come and it’s finally upon us,”  David Stevens , president of
the  Mortgage Bankers Association  said during a speech in
 Washington  on Jan. 16. “These changes will impact business
operations and the future of mortgage access for years to
come.”  Stevens said his organization has received hundreds of e-
mails and telephone calls from members trying to understand the
new regulations, which were mandated by Congress in response to
lax underwriting standards before the 2008 financial crisis.  Underwriting Rules  The so-called Qualified Mortgage rule issued by the CFPB
Jan. 10, weighing in at 804 pages, requires lenders to verify
borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and offers legal safe
harbor for lenders who follow guidelines for safe mortgages.  The CFPB offered strong legal protection for loans on which
borrowers’ debt payments are no more than 43 percent of their
income. Points and fees for such mortgages can’t be more than 3
percent of the total loan amount. Loans backed by the government
through  Fannie Mae (FNMA) ,  Freddie Mac , and the  Federal Housing
Administration  automatically qualify for legal protection for
the next seven years.  The CFPB stopped short of adding a requirement for a
minimum down payment. Now the six regulators drafting the
separate QRM rule, including the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and
the Securities and Exchange Commission, must decide whether to
include such a requirement  -- and whether to make it less than
the 20 percent they originally proposed.  ‘Politically Expedient’  Down payment size “is the major credit-risk driver in
mortgages that was untouched by the QM rule,” Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Federal Financial Analytics in
Washington, said in an interview.  Defining safe loans as those with a 10 percent down
payment, instead of 20 percent, “is the politically expedient
course to take,” Petrou said.  Others, including Republican Senator  Johnny Isakson  of
 Georgia , are calling for a down payment requirement as low as 5
percent and a continued role for private  mortgage insurance  to
hold a share of the risk on loans with less than a 20 percent
down payment.  Meanwhile, there are many unanswered questions about the
impact of the rules already released, Stevens and other industry
participants say. Bankers say they worry that the QM rule could
prevent borrowers from obtaining so-called jumbo mortgages,
which are larger than the $729,750 ceiling on FHA-eligible loans
or the $625,000 ceiling on loans backed by  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac.  Included Fees  In addition, it’s unclear what will be included in the
provision capping fees at 3 percent of the loan amount, and what
will happen if mortgages originated in good faith are later
found not to meet underwriting standards.  The CFPB yesterday also released 1,600 pages of regulations
setting requirements for mortgage servicers, including new
limits on foreclosures while borrowers are simultaneously
negotiating loan modifications.  The regulations, which apply to servicers who handle at
least 5,000 loans, also require clear mortgage bills that warn
consumers before their  interest rates  adjust. The servicing
rules and the QM rule are scheduled to go into effect in January
2014.  The servicing rules’ complexity could lead to unintended
consequences that will need to be addressed as soon as possible,
Stevens said.  ‘Second Correction’  “I’m concerned we’re going to force a second correction in
the housing market by creating a regulatory clampdown on fully
sustainable homeownership because too many people haven’t really
dissected the deep nuances of these rules,” he said in an
interview yesterday.  Mortgage credit is already tight. Borrowers whose loans
closed in 2012 had an average credit score of 748, which would
place them in the top 37 percent of Americans, according to
 Ellie Mae (ELLI) , a Pleasanton, California, company that provides
software for the mortgage industry. Those buyers made down
payments averaging 21 percent. The interest rate on a 30-year
fixed-rate mortgage averaged 3.9 percent in 2012, Ellie Mae
said.  Still to come from the CFPB are new rules governing loan
officer compensation and regulations governing simplified loan
documents.  International regulators are phasing in new capital
standards mandated under the Basel III accord by 2019. Those
will require banks to hold more capital against certain
mortgages.  The full impact on lending will only become clear once all
the rules come out, and the most restrictive rules will
determine the scope of the market, said Tim Rood, a partner in
Washington-based consulting firm Collingwood LLC.  “Particularly in an environment as heightened as this one,
you’re going to regress to the lowest common denominator from
the credit perspective,” he said. “Whichever of these
standards is the most conservative is the one that you’re going
to adhere to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  