-- Pacific International Lines Admits to Oil Pollution Crime
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-01-18T18:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/pacific-international-lines-admits-to-oil-pollution-crime.html
Pacific International Lines Ltd., a
Singapore-based freighter company, agreed to plead guilty to
failing to track oily waste from a ship and to other pollution-
related charges.  The closely held shipper was accused of giving U.S.
authorities a false accounting of bilge-waste discharges and of
lacking proper pollution control equipment aboard a container
ship during an inspection by the U.S. Coast Guard in  American
Samoa , according to a plea agreement filed yesterday in federal
court in  Washington .  The company agreed to pay a criminal penalty of $2.2
million, including a $2 million fine and community service
payments of $100,000 each to the National Marine Sanctuary
Foundation and the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation for
projects in or near American Samoa, according to a joint
sentencing recommendation that is subject to court approval.  The violations were discovered in an annual inspection by
the U.S. Coast Guard after the vessel arrived in Pago Pago,
American Samoa, last June.  Pacific International and an attorney for the company in
 San Francisco , John Cox, didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed
requests for comment on the plea before business hours.  The Pacific International plea agreement is the second
recent criminal case the  Justice Department  has brought
involving pollution charges against international shippers in
American Samoa.  Sanford Ltd.,  New Zealand ’s second-biggest fishing company,
was fined $1.9 million by a U.S. judge on Jan. 10 for
discharging oily waste into the sea around the island territory
and covering up its actions. The chief engineer of the Sanford
tuna vessel involved in the pollution was ordered jailed for one
month and fined $6,000.  The Pacific International case is U.S. v. Pacific
International Lines Ltd., 13-cr-19, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  