-- Pay Rules for U.S. Mortgage Brokers Issued by Consumer Bureau
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-01-18T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/pay-rules-for-u-s-mortgage-brokers-issued-by-consumer-bureau.html
Loan officers will face restrictions
on their ability to give borrowers high-cost mortgages under a
new rule issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  “Before the financial crisis, many mortgage borrowers were
steered towards risky and high-cost loans because it meant more
money for the loan originator,”  Richard Cordray , the agency’s
director, said in an e-mailed statement. “These rules will hold
loan originators more accountable by banning the incentives that
led so many of them to direct consumers toward disaster.”  The new rule issued today prohibits compensation that
varies with the loan terms, so that an originator cannot earn
more by getting a consumer into a loan with a higher  interest
rate , a prepayment penalty or higher fees.  It also bans so-called dual compensation, in which loan
originators get paid by both the consumer and another entity,
such as the creditor. It outlines eligibility requirements for
loan officers, including character fitness, background checks
and training requirements.  The CFPB decided not to proceed with an Aug. 17  proposal 
that would have required loan originators to offer a mortgage
with no up-front discount points or origination fees. Instead,
it will first take stock of how the various rules required under
Dodd-Frank affect consumer understanding of mortgages, according
to an e-mailed statement.  The rule is one in a series the bureau has written in an
effort to revamp mortgage lending practices. On Jan. 10, the
bureau issued a final rule on underwriting standards for
mortgages. Later this year, it is scheduled to complete a rule
on simplifying mortgage disclosure forms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  