-- PBOC Starts Short-Term Liquidity Operations as Rates Liberalized
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-18T19:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/pboc-starts-short-term-liquidity-operations-as-rates-liberalized.html
The People’s Bank of China  said it
will start short-term liquidity operations as additional tools
to manage cash supply, amid efforts by policy makers to promote
liberalization of  interest rates .  Repurchase agreements  and reverse repurchase contracts with
a maturity of less than seven days will be the main tools of the
so-called SLOs, the central bank said in a statement yesterday.
It named 12 banks, including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  and  Bank of China Ltd. , as participants in the SLOs,
which will supplement regular open-market operations held each
Tuesday and Thursday.  Standard Chartered  Plc said the move marks
a PBOC shift toward using money-market rates as a policy tool.  “The central bank will probably make the seven-day
reverse-repo rate the new benchmark rate in a gradual pace,”
said  Li Wei , an economist in Shanghai at Standard Chartered.
“That means when the economy gets overheated, the central bank
will push up the seven-day reverse-repo rate in auctions to
guide the market in the price-setting of money rates.”  The shift may improve the government’s ability to manage
the world’s second-largest  economy , which expanded 7.8 percent
in 2012 in the slowest pace in 13 years. The PBOC has issued
reverse-repurchase agreements twice weekly since June, and used
the contracts to ensure funding availability as it refrained
from lowering interest rates. The reverse repos currently issued
are maturing in seven, 14 and 28 days.  Ensuring Stability  The purpose of using SLOs is to improve open-market
operation and ensure stability in the banking system’s liquidity
and money-market rates, according to the statement. The results
will be published on the central bank’s website one month after
the auctions, the PBOC said.  The central bank, in a June decision announced with the
first interest-rate cut since 2008, allowed lenders to offer a
10 percent premium on savings rates and widened permissible
lending-rate discounts to 20 percent from 10 percent. The PBOC
lowered borrowing costs again on July 6 and widened the lending
discount to 30 percent.  The statement didn’t specify when the SLO auctions will be
held. Seven-day reverse-repurchase  contracts  were last sold at a
yield of 3.35 percent on Jan. 10.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  