-- Poland to Pick Energa Investor This Year After IPO
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2013-01-18T12:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/poland-to-pick-energa-investor-this-year-after-ipo.html
Poland  plans to pick an industry
investor for Energa SA, its fourth-biggest utility, this year
after selling a minority stake in an initial public offering by
the end of June.  The government will give preference to an investor already
present on Poland’s power market, Deputy Treasury Minister Pawel Tamborski said in an interview in Warsaw today. The IPO of as
much as 50 percent of Energa may include a new share sale as the
Gdansk-based company needs funds for expansion, he said.  Poland has sold to the public minority stakes in Energa’s
bigger competitors, including  PGE SA (PGE) , Tauron Polska Energia SA
and  Enea (ENA)  SA, in past years, while keeping majority holdings in
state hands. The offerings helped the government finance its
 budget deficit  and curb borrowing needs.  “We want to pick advisers for the Energa IPO by the end of
January,” Tamborski said. “Our advisers will help determine
the structure of the transaction to reflect the attractiveness
of the company, whose focus on the distribution business helps
it stand out in the industry.”  Before the IPO, set to be the biggest in Poland this year,
Energa will pay a dividend to the government, Tamborski said.  Second Attempt  The search for an industry investor will be the ministry’s
second attempt after the Polish antitrust regulator blocked
Energa’s sale to PGE in 2010 in a deal that valued the company
at 8.9 billion zloty ($2.88 billion). Investors interested in
the sale then included  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, Kulczyk Holding SA, CEZ AS,
Energeticky a Prujmyslovy Holding AS and  Polskie Gornictwo
Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA. (PGN)   The government has already failed twice to sell Enea, its
third-largest utility, after holding talks with  RWE AG (RWE)  in 2009
and Electricite de France SA in 2011.  Energa has a 17 percent share in the Polish regulated
distribution market, compared with a 3 percent share in the
power generation market. Its earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, rose 21 percent to
1.07 billion zloty in the first six months of 2012 from a year
earlier, according to its website.  PGE is valued 4.5 times Ebitda for the last 12 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tauron (TPE) ’s enterprise
value, or stock-market capitalization plus debt and minus cash,
is 3.6 times Ebitda, while Enea trades 3.1 times Ebitda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net ;
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  