-- Polish Industrial Output Falls, Boosting Rate-Cut Case
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-01-18T14:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/polish-industrial-output-falls-boosting-rate-cut-case.html
Polish  industrial output  plunged the
most in almost four years, boosting expectations for an
interest-rate cut next month to avert the first recession in two
decades for the European Union’s largest eastern economy.  Production declined 10.6 percent in December from a year
earlier, after decreasing 0.8 percent in November, the  Central
Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today. That was the steepest
fall since April 2009 and more than the median estimate for a
6.5 percent contraction in a Bloomberg survey of 28 economists.
Output dropped 14.2 percent from the previous month.  Poland’s central bank reduced rates for three straight
months after the economy slowed to its weakest since 2009 in the
third quarter. While Governor  Marek Belka  said last week the
bank may pause its monetary-easing cycle, today’s data and
slowing price growth support further rate cuts, said Ernest Pytlarczyk, chief economist at BRE Bank in Warsaw.  “It all fits together: this is a recession,” Pytlarczyk
said by phone after the data. “No matter whether you look at
working days, construction, job losses or car production, it
points to contraction. The central bank will cut  interest rates 
again in February.”  The zloty slumped almost 1 percent to the euro after the
report to a two-month low of 4.1570 as of 3:40 p.m. in Warsaw.
The yield on the two-year government bond fell two basis points
to 3.324 percent.  Operating Loss  PKN Orlen SA probably posted an unexpected operating loss
in the fourth quarter after  Poland ’s largest oil company wrote
down the value of its Czech refiner, the Plock, Poland-based
company said today. Falling demand amid a slump in neighboring
 Czech Republic  contributed to the loss, Tomasz Kasowicz, an
analyst at Bank Zachodni WBK SA, said by phone.  The next four months will be difficult for Poland’s economy
and a “somewhat deeper” rate reduction than the current cuts
of 25 basis points each may be needed, Anna Zielinska-Glebocka
of the central bank’s rate-setting board was quoted as saying on
TVN CNBC in an interview today.  Slowing growth in  Germany , which buys a quarter of Polish
exports, along with the output drop and a decline in December’s
inflation rate mean that “another 25 basis-point interest-rate
cut in February is currently our baseline scenario,”  Maja Goettig , a strategist at  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  in Warsaw, said by phone.  Job Cuts  German gross domestic product growth will slow to 0.4
percent this year from 0.7 percent in 2012, the German Economy
Ministry said on Jan. 16. GDP may have fallen as much as 0.5
percent in the fourth quarter from the previous three months,
suggesting  Europe ’s biggest economy is on the brink of a
recession, the Federal Statistics Office estimated.  In a separate report, employment at Polish companies shrank
0.5 percent in December from a year earlier, the statistical
office said today. That compares with a 0.3 percent decline in
November and a median estimate for a 0.4 percent decrease in a
Bloomberg survey of 24 economists. Hiring fell 0.4 percent from
November.  December wage growth slowed to 2.4 percent from 2.7 percent
in November, the office said. That was above the 2.1 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 27 economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  