-- Post-9/11 Detainees’ Case Against U.S. Officials Tossed
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-01-18T00:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/post-9-11-detainees-case-against-u-s-officials-tossed.html
A group of Muslims and Hindus
detained on immigration charges after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks can’t sue senior U.S. officials over the
conditions of their confinement because those individuals
weren’t responsible, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson dismissed the
constitutional claims against the Justice Department officials
brought by eight men in  Brooklyn , New York. He allowed the case
to proceed against officials at the federal Metropolitan
Detention Center in Brooklyn, who they accused of imposing
illegally harsh conditions during their incarceration.  “They do not allege that the DOJ defendants intended that
the MDC defendants create the punitive and abusive conditions in
which the plaintiffs were detained,” Gleeson said in the
opinion, referring to the U.S. Justice Department and the
Brooklyn jail. “Nor do they allege that the DOJ defendants were
even aware of those conditions.”  The men were arrested and detained under the government’s
“hold-until-cleared policy” for Muslim and Arab immigration
law violators, implemented in connection with terror
investigations following the Sept. 11 attacks, according to the
opinion Gleeson filed on Jan. 15.  The men alleged in the suit filed in April 2002 that they
were generally subjected to 23-hour-a-day confinement, denial of
sleep, “severe beatings to the point of unconsciousness,”
excessive strip searches, and denial of medical care. They were
incarcerated for as long as eight months, according to the
complaint.  The case is Turkmen et al v. Ashcroft, 1:02-cv-02307, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  