-- Pound Slides Sixth Day Versus Dollar on Retail Sales; Gilts Gain
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-01-18T17:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/pound-weakens-sixth-day-against-dollar-as-retail-sales-decline.html
The pound weakened for a sixth day
against the dollar after a government report showed U.K. retail
sales unexpectedly declined in December, adding to signs the
economy is struggling to recover.  Sterling dropped to a nine-month low versus the euro after
excerpts from a proposed speech by Prime Minister  David Cameron 
raised the specter of Britain exiting the 27-nation European
Union. U.K. government bonds advanced.  Bank of England  policy
maker  Ian McCafferty  said that officials must have an open mind
about ways to help the economy, signaling he may support new
stimulus measures.  “We obviously had very weak retail sales numbers,” said
Christian Lawrence, a currency strategist at Rabobank
International in London. “It’s only if we get some headlines
coming out of the mouths of politicians that we’re likely to see
much of a sea change in sentiment” toward sterling, he said.  The pound fell 0.7 percent to $1.5876 at 5 p.m. London time
after sliding to $1.5857, the lowest level since Nov. 16. The
U.K. currency depreciated 0.2 percent to 83.76 pence per euro
after weakening to 83.88 pence, the least since March 28.  Sterling declined against all except two of its 16 major
counterparts this week amid concern a loosening of the U.K.’s
relationship with the EU will reduce investor confidence and
threaten  London ’s role as a financial center.  “More of the same” won’t be enough to guarantee the EU’s
future due to Britons’ dismay at a lack of consent in their
relationship with the bloc, Cameron planned to say in his speech
in Amsterdam, according to the text.  While the speech was postponed due to the hostage crisis in
 Algeria , the Prime Minister’s office released excerpts for
publication before the scheduled address.  ‘Political Problems’  “Cameron has a lot of political problems but from the
perspective of business, uncertainty is a really big problem,”
said  David Blanchflower , former Bank of England policy maker and
a contributing editor at Bloomberg Television. “This may well
be not very good for the economy and not good for jobs, at a
time when the economy may well we be heading into a triple-dip”
recession, he said in an interview with  Mark Barton  on
“Countdown.”  Retail sales including fuel slipped 0.1 percent from
November, when they stagnated, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London. The median forecast of economists in
a Bloomberg survey was for an increase of 0.2 percent. Purchases
of household goods fell the most in almost three years.  Gilts Gain  The  10-year gilt  yield dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.01 percent. The 1.75 percent bond
maturing in September 2022 advanced 0.255, or 2.55 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 97.725.  U.K. government bonds handed investors a loss of 1.6
percent this month through yesterday, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German bonds dropped 1.5 percent and
Treasuries fell 0.5 percent.  The pound has weakened 2 percent this year, the second-
worst performance after the Japanese yen, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10 developed-market
currencies. The euro advanced 1.6 percent and the dollar gained
0.6 percent.  “We need to be open to considering other unorthodox means
to conduct monetary policy if they become necessary,” the Bank
of England’s McCafferty said in an interview with  Guy Johnson  on
Bloomberg Television in London.  Asked about the pound and whether he would favor a weaker
level to help exports, McCafferty said there “are questions on
whether sterling is now at a competitive level in terms of
allowing that fundamental rebalancing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  