-- Powerlong Offers Dollar Notes as Asia-Pacific Bond Risk Declines
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-18T04:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/powerlong-offers-dollar-notes-as-asia-pacific-bond-risk-declines.html
Powerlong Real Estate Holdings Ltd. (1238) 
is marketing dollar-denominated notes as bond risk in the Asia-
Pacific region falls. Yield premiums are poised to climb the
most this week since September.  The Shanghai-based developer is offering five-year
securities yielding about 12 percent, according to a person
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because
the terms aren’t set. The cost of insuring Asia-Pacific
corporate and sovereign debt from non-payment dropped today,
extending a decline this year.  Powerlong’s offering comes as sales slow this week to $9.05
billion, from a six-month high of $13.9 billion in the five
business days ended Jan. 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yield premiums on dollar notes in  Asia  are set for
the largest jump in sixteen weeks, after advancing 9 basis
points from last week to 259 basis points more than Treasuries
yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  “Although there’s ample liquidity in the markets, people
need time to digest,” said Louisa Lam, Hong Kong-based credit
analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. “There are so many new issues
that have come in recent weeks and there are so many still in
the pipeline. That’s why the market paused a bit recently.”  The spread on Yuexiu Property Co.’s 2023 bonds, which
priced at 275 basis points more than Treasuries on Jan. 16,
widened 24 basis points to 299 basis points as of 10:51 a.m. in
 Hong Kong , according to prices quoted by Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc.  KWG Property Holding Ltd. (1813) , the Hong Kong-listed
developer whose projects include the five-star Sheraton Huadu
Resort in Guangzhou, pulled an offering of perpetual bonds in
dollars this week.  Bond Risk  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199)  is planning a dollar bond to be sold
through a unit, according to a statement on the Hong Kong stock
exchange. BOCI Asia Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan and UBS AG
will arrange the note sale, according to the filing.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan dropped three basis points to 106 basis
points as of 8:31 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices show. The gauge has fallen seven basis points
this year, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index fell three basis points to
138.5 as of 9:28 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The
benchmark is on track for its lowest close since Jan. 11,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index retreated two basis
points to 115 as of 11:50 a.m. in Sydney, according to  Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  The measure has dropped 12.5
this year, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  