-- Primaris Investors Say H&R to Win as Break Fee Deters Rival Bids
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-01-18T15:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/primaris-investors-say-h-r-to-win-as-break-fee-deters-rival-bids.html
H&R Real Estate Investment Trust’s
offer for  Primaris Real Estate Investment Trust (PMZ-U)  to form the
largest REIT in Canada will probably win approval from investors
as a C$106.6 million ($108.1 million) break fee deters rival
bids.  The C$2.68 billion friendly cash and stock offer is
expected to pass because the odds of a superior bid are low, Ken Avalos, an analyst at  Raymond James , said in a note yesterday.
Toronto-based H&R said its bid announced yesterday worth about
C$27.33 a share tops a hostile C$26 a share cash offer last
month from a group led by KingSett Capital Inc.  “We are happy to see Primaris recognized at full value,”
Steven Burton, managing director of CBRE Clarion Securities LLC,
said in a phone interview. He did not speculate on whether H&R
would win the bid. The Pennsylvania-based firm manages more than
$20 billion and is the second-largest holder of Primaris shares,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. “Primaris has always
been an attractive investment and it’s good to see the bids
showing that.”  Primaris, the third-largest mall owner in  Canada , was
little changed at C$26.58 at 9:34 a.m. in Toronto, for a market
value of C$2.6 billion. H&R, which operates office, retail and
industrial properties in the Toronto area, rose eight cents to
C$23.22. It dropped yesterday to C$22.87, the lowest since
March.  About 40 percent of hostile bids are successful in Canada,
according to Bloomberg data, setting a low precedent for
KingSett’s unsolicited offer.  Economic Value  KingSett yesterday extended its offer to Primaris
shareholders until Feb. 4 to allow time for it to review H&R’s
offer, the company said in a statement. Louise Kozier, a
spokeswoman for KingSett, said KingSett is not reviewing its own
offer.  H&R’s offer is likely to go through, Dennis Mitchell, chief
investment officer of Sentry Investments Inc. said in a phone
interview yesterday. The Toronto-based firm is the fifth-largest
holder of Toronto-based Primaris and also holds H&R shares. The
H&R bid needs the support of two-thirds of Primaris holders.  “When everything settles, you’re going to get more
economic value out of this deal than you will out of the
KingSett bid,” said Mitchell, who said his firm bought 130,000
shares on Jan. 16, a day before the deal was announced.  KingSett had partnered with the Ontario Pension Board,
which manages about C$17 billion, and  RioCan REIT (REI-U)  to acquire
Primaris in an unsolicited offer in December.  Break Fee Unique  The C$106.6 million break fee is unique, said shareholder
Chris Damas of independent research firm BCMI Research,
tempering shareholder incentive to vote against the H&R
takeover.  “The break fee seems designed to thwart a follow-up bid
from KingSett or its partners,” Damas said in a note to clients
and called it a “hit and run” deal. He holds Primaris shares.  The fee, which includes an option on Primaris’ Dufferin
Mall and certain Yonge Street development properties in Toronto,
is payable to H&R if Primaris accepts a superior hostile bid. To
trump H&R’s offer, a potential investor such as RioCan would
need to offer an C$29 all-cash bid -- enough to compensate for
the fee, according to Mitchell.  “We are confident that the deal will get done and the
business can be successfully integrated,” Primaris CEO John Morrison said in a conference call Jan. 17.  Savings Generated  The takeover would yield savings of C$10 million over two
years and deleverage H&R’s balance sheet, the company said.
Primaris would boost shareholder payouts by 20 percent.  The REIT market in Canada is booming, raising about $440
million in five initial public offerings last year, more than
any other industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Capped REIT  Index (SPRTRE)  has climbed 8.9 percent
in past 12 months, compared with a 3.3 percent gain for the
S&P/TSX Composite Index.  Agellan Commercial Real Estate Investment Trust raised
C$134.6 million ($136.4 million) this week in the first initial
public offering of the year.  RioCan, the largest REIT in Canada by retail space, could
still bid for Primaris, Damas at BCMI Research said, with the
end goal of selling retail units to KingSett. RioCan, which
operates 79 million square feet of retail real estate, had
 agreed  to buy six properties and a 50 percent stake in two
additional properties as part of the KingSett consortium.  Target’s Arrival  Primaris, which had its initial public offering in 2003,
operates retail real estate in urban centers and secondary
cities to companies including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Sears Canada
Inc., and Canadian Tire. Their 33 mall properties include
Zellers Inc. leases, which will be turned over to Target Corp.
when the U.S. retail giant opens its doors this year.  The transaction would boost H&R’s retail side to 39 percent
from 17 percent and cut its exposure to  office space  to 48
percent from 65 percent.  The Target store openings this year will drive foot traffic
to the malls, raising tenant rents and occupancy rates. That
means investment value for shareholders, said John Crombie,
national director of retail real estate at  Cushman & Wakefield .  “These aren’t the primary malls but they’re the workman’s
malls -- it’s a good collection across the country,” he said in
a phone interview from Toronto. “A lot of Primaris malls will
be rejuvenated by Target with retailers getting ready by
improving their space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  