-- PVH CEO Says J.C. Penney’s Izod Shop Sales Are ‘Grand Slam’
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2013-01-18T21:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/pvh-ceo-says-j-c-penney-s-izod-shop-sales-are-a-grand-slam-.html
PVH Corp. (PVH) ’s new Izod stores at  J.C.
Penney Co. (JCP)  are a hit with customers -- a sign Chief Executive
Officer  Ron Johnson ’s plan to turn most of the department stores
into a collection of boutiques is getting some traction.  “From a sales point of view and a margin point of view,
the Penney’s business is running on or ahead of plan and given
what their sales trends are, we think that’s a grand slam home
run,” PVH CEO Manny Chirico said yesterday at the ICR XChange
conference in Miami.  A measure of revenue per product is 20 percent higher at
the Izod shop-in-shops at J.C. Penney, implemented about five
months ago, compared with other department stores through Jan.
12, Chirico said.  One brand’s success does not a turnaround make. J.C.
Penney’s  sales  have dropped 20 percent or more for three
straight quarters as Johnson struggles to overhaul the fourth-
largest U.S. department-store chain. Traffic has fallen as
Johnson, Apple Inc.’s former retail chief, works to remake the
company by eliminating sale events, adding stylish brands and
creating an array of branded shops within most stores.  Still, PVH has lost traction in dress shirts at J.C. Penney
-- slack that  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  has picked up -- because of their
poor “value message,” Chirico said during a question-and-
answer session with investors and analysts.  “Penney’s strength was selling commodities,” he said.
“White socks, dress shirts, underwear, women’s intimates,
pajamas -- that was what Penney’s strength was, and basically,
this strategy that’s been implemented has basically killed
that” view of the business, Chirico said.  Value Message  Johnson initially sought to offer “everyday low prices”
in the place of coupons and sale events with the idea of
creating a more honest shopping experience. Instead, many
customers were alienated and confused by the changes. Since
then, Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney has tweaked its pricing
strategy, adding back sales and announcing plans to put
“suggested retail prices” on merchandise tags.  “They understand they need to have a value message, they
finally put that in,” Chirico said. “They have a hard time
saying the word ‘sale’ because they put themselves in a corner
about it but I think there will be national events as we start
spring.”  The effort will still “be a bit of a struggle” as
consumers trickle back in and the store environment improves, he
said. “It’s always been a very profitable account for us, it’s
just not as big as it has been.”  J.C. Penney is scheduled to report fiscal fourth-quarter
results on Feb. 27. The company’s  shares , which slid 44 percent
last year, the worst since 2008, rose 4 percent to $18.87 at the
close in  New York .  PVH, based in New York,  fell  0.8 percent to $118.02 and had
advanced 57 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  