-- TransCanada Seeks to Halt Texas Keystone Suit Over Easement
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-01-18T19:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/transcanada-seeks-to-halt-texas-keystone-suit-over-easement-1-.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  asked a Texas
judge to dismiss a landowner’s bid to take back an easement that
lets the Keystone XL Canadian tar-sands pipeline cross his farm.  At a hearing today in Nacogdoches, TransCanada told County
Court at Law Judge Jack Sinz that he lacks jurisdiction to
decide the matter. James Freeman, the pipeline’s lawyer,
characterized the dispute as one for “the recovery of land,”
which he said falls outside of a county judge’s authority under
state law.  “Regardless of how a plaintiff characterizes his claims,
if the gist of a cause of action is in fact an adjudication of
title, a county court does not have jurisdiction,” Freeman said
in papers filed Jan. 2. “The case should be dismissed.”  Michael Bishop , a 64-year-old retired chemist who owns a
biofuels company, urged Sinz to continue presiding over the
dispute, which he claims doesn’t concern title to Keystone’s
easement across his 20-acre farm.  Bishop said he is still listed on county tax rolls as the
landowner because TransCanada acquired solely a right of way,
not title to the tract in Nacogdoches, about 140 miles (225
kilometers) northeast of Houston.  ‘Contractual Dispute’  “TransCanada said itself in an earlier filing that this
boils down to a simple contractual dispute,” Bishop said in an
interview before the hearing. “I’m seeking rescission of a
contract based on fraud. I’ve never questioned title to the
property. I’ve questioned eminent domain, which is within the
statutory authority of this court.”  Bishop sued Calgary-based TransCanada in November to
rescind the easement, which he claims the company acquired by
fraudulently misrepresenting what Keystone will transport. The
pipeline is the southern leg of a 2,151-mile pipeline intended
to carry  tar-sands  crude from western  Canada  to the U.S.
refining industry complex on the Texas Gulf coast.  Bishop agreed to sell TransCanada the easement in November
after fighting the company in condemnation proceedings for more
than two years. He said he felt pressured to accept the
company’s offer before TransCanada took the easement anyway at a
much lower price through eminent domain.  Bishop has asked Sinz to determine whether TransCanada
fraudulently obtained the easement by deceiving landowners and
state regulators that diluted bitumen, which is obtained from
tar sands, is a form of crude oil when opponents of the pipeline
contend it isn’t.  Toxic, Corrosive  Bishop and environmental groups claim diluted bitumen is
more toxic and corrosive than conventional crude oil. Bitumen
has the consistency of peanut butter at atmospheric temperatures
and pressure and must be diluted for pipeline transport,
according to court filings.  Bishop claims TransCanada “intentionally misled and
misrepresented” the nature of its product to regulators,
landowners and the public in order to obtain permits and eminent
domain rights to push its project through.  Sinz deferred hearing evidence on that aspect of the case
until he determines proper jurisdiction for the dispute.  Environmental protesters and landowners have battled
TransCanada construction crews at numerous locations along the
pipeline route in an attempt to highlight what they claim is the
Keystone’s potential for environmental catastrophe, should the
line leak or rupture.  At least three other landowners are pursuing legal
challenges in  Texas  courts designed to block Keystone from
crossing their properties. So far, none of these court
challenges has permanently stopped construction on the line.  The case is Bishop v. TransCanada Keystone Pipeline LP,
CV1213077, County Court at Law, Nacogdoches County, Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Nacogdoches at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 