-- TransCanada Temporarily Blocks Texas Pipeline Easement Case
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-01-18T21:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/transcanada-temporarily-blocks-texas-pipeline-easement-case-1-.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  won temporary
dismissal of a landowner’s bid to take back an easement that
lets the Keystone XL Canadian tar-sands pipeline cross his farm
after a judge in Texas said he had no authority to hear the
dispute.  “If you want to have an easement vacated, only the
district court can do that,” Jack Sinz, a county court judge in
Nacogdoches, Texas, said at a hearing today. “All you have to
do is walk down the hall and refile the case in district
court.”  Michael Bishop , a 64-year-old retired chemist who owns a
biofuels company, sued Calgary-based TransCanada in November to
rescind the easement, which he claims the company acquired by
fraudulently misrepresenting what Keystone will transport. The
pipeline is the southern leg of a 2,151-mile pipeline intended
to carry tar-sands crude from western  Canada  to the U.S.
refining industry complex on the Texas Gulf coast.  James Freeman, the pipeline’s lawyer, characterized the
dispute as one for “the recovery of land,” which he said falls
outside of a county judge’s authority under state law.  Bishop urged Sinz to continue presiding over the dispute,
which he claims doesn’t concern title to Keystone’s easement
across his 20-acre farm. He said he is still listed on county
tax rolls as the landowner because TransCanada acquired solely a
right of way, not title to the tract in Nacogdoches, about 140
miles (225 kilometers) northeast of Houston.  ‘I’m the Judge’  “An easement is a title to property -– you can shake your
head but I have to rule on the law,’’ Sinz told Bishop at the
hearing. ‘‘Once you gave up the easement, it is no longer an
eminent domain case. I’m the judge but I can’t just go hear any
case I want.’’  Bishop agreed to sell TransCanada the easement in November
after fighting the company in condemnation proceedings for more
than two years. He said he felt pressured to accept the
company’s offer before TransCanada took the easement anyway at a
much lower price through eminent domain.  The retired chemist has asked Sinz to determine whether
TransCanada fraudulently obtained the easement by deceiving
landowners and state regulators that diluted bitumen, which is
obtained from  tar sands , is a form of crude oil when opponents
of the pipeline contend it isn’t.  Bishop and environmental groups claim diluted bitumen is
more toxic and corrosive than conventional crude oil. Bitumen
has the consistency of peanut butter at atmospheric temperatures
and pressure and must be diluted for pipeline transport,
according to court filings.  Bishop claims TransCanada ‘‘intentionally misled and
misrepresented” the nature of its product to regulators,
landowners and the public in order to obtain permits and eminent
domain rights to push its project through.  Proper Jurisdiction  “I can’t decide this case on whether it is diluted bitumen
or crude oil; that’s no longer the issue,’’ Sinz said at the
hearing. ‘‘Seeking to remove someone’s right to an easement is a
district court matter.’’  Bishop told the judge he would immediately appeal his
dismissal of the case.  ‘‘It ain’t over till it’s over,’’ Bishop told supporters
outside the courtroom.  Environmental protesters and landowners have battled
TransCanada construction crews at numerous locations along the
pipeline route in an attempt to highlight what they claim is the
Keystone’s potential for environmental catastrophe, should the
line leak or rupture.  At least three other landowners are pursuing legal
challenges in  Texas  courts designed to block Keystone from
crossing their properties. So far, none of these court
challenges has permanently stopped construction on the line.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Nacogdoches at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  