-- Raytheon Missile-Defense Flaw May Be Fixed, Tester Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-18T17:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/raytheon-missile-defense-flaw-may-be-fixed-tester-says.html
The  Missile Defense Agency  appears
to have solved a flaw in the guidance system of  Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s
latest interceptor warhead designed to protect the U.S. from
intercontinental ballistic missiles, according to the Pentagon’s
testing office.  The agency made progress last year as it redesigned and
tested components of the warhead, which costs $30 million
apiece, “and established more stringent” requirements for
parts and manufacturing,  Michael Gilmore , the Pentagon’s
director of operational testing, said in his annual report.  Confirmation that the guidance system’s flaw has been fixed
would permit the first effort to intercept a test target since a
failure in 2010. The $35 billion system of ground-based
interceptors in  Alaska  and  California  hasn’t successfully
destroyed a target since 2008.  “Analysis and ground test results indicate” the causes of
the December 2010 failure “have been identified and fixed, but
a demonstration flight test is required” for verification,
Gilmore wrote in the report sent to Congress last week.  The warhead’s guidance flaw, the nature of which remains
classified, caused the failure of the $300 million test in the
final seconds before it was to intercept its target. The flaw
hadn’t been identified during ground testing, the agency said a
year later.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office estimated last
year that fixing the flaw and confirming it’s resolved would
cost more than $1.2 billion.  ‘Kill Vehicle’  The “kill vehicle” made by Waltham, Massachusetts-based
Raytheon is a 120-pound (54-kilogram) spacecraft about the
length of a broomstick. It looks like a telescope mounted on a
pack of propane cylinders. It is supposed to pick out a target
amid decoys and debris and destroy it by smashing into it high
speed. The warhead is launched off a missile made by  Orbital
Sciences Corp. (ORB)   The Missile Defense Agency will seek to verify the
interceptor’s guidance problem has been repaired through a
demonstration test in space by March, according to agency
spokesman Rick Lehner.  The National Research Council said in a September report
requested by Congress that the design of the ground-based
missile defense system has fundamental weaknesses, including a
vulnerability to counter-measures by a U.S. enemy.  Improvements in the costly system “‘will take time, money
and careful testing, but unless this is done’’ it ‘‘will not be
able to work against any but the most primitive attacks,’’
according to the Washington-based council, part of the National
Academies.  Alaska Silos  Ten of the latest-model warheads already are in U.S. silos
in Alaska as the key weapon in the ground-based missile defense
system intended to intercept a small number of missiles if they
were fired at the U.S. by  North Korea  or  Iran .  ‘‘What is extraordinary’’ is that the missiles have been
deployed even though they ‘‘have never successfully intercepted
a test target,’’ Kingston Reif, director of nuclear
nonproliferation for the Council for a Living World, said in an
e-mail. His group opposes the missile-defense system.  In January 2011, the Missile Defense Agency directed
Raytheon’s Tucson-based missile unit to halt final assembly of
complete warheads pending resolution and verification that the
guidance flaw has been fixed. Lehner said the halt will remain
in place until the next scheduled intercept test is a success.  The Missile Defense Agency said without elaboration in
October 2011 that the guidance system on the newest model had a
fault ‘‘related to outer space-related dynamic environments.’’  ‘‘It was something that occurred only in space and was not
identifiable during pre-flight ground testing,’’ Lehner said.  The agency is responsible for developing, fielding and
upgrading the nation’s ground- and sea-based missile defense
programs, working with Japan and  Israel , among other nations.  Its top contractors are  Boeing Co. (BA) ;  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,
Raytheon,  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ; and Dulles, Virginia-based
Orbital Sciences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  