-- Treadmill’s Journey From Jailhouse to Executive Suite
-- B y   E d w a r d   T e n n e r
-- 2013-01-18T17:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/treadmill-s-journey-from-jailhouse-to-executive-suite.html
The  New York Times  recently reported
on the rage for standing desks among executives, and
particularly on a model that features a treadmill.  The icon of the genre is the Steelcase Walkstation,
retailing at $4,399; there’s also a model that includes a chair
for $4,799. (In the 1980s, the high-water mark for executive
workstations was reached with the reclining  Jefferson Chair , the
designer Niels Diffrient’s sumptuous $6,500 leather-upholstered
lounge chair plus ottoman with platform for monitor and
keyboard, inspired by seating at Monticello,  Thomas Jefferson ’s
home in  Virginia .)  Twenty-five years of health studies have overturned old
ideas about premium seating. In the 1950s, the Barcalounger
company advertised its chairs as “heart-saving,” based on a
theory developed in the 1930s that a floating-in-water position
could provide vital relaxation. Some models were sold as office
furniture.  Whether medical opinion endorsed the reclining cure even 60
years ago is doubtful, but in the inventor’s archives I have
seen scrapbooks filled with physicians’ prescriptions for
Barcaloungers as tax-deductible devices.  A 1956  Mechanix Illustrated  magazine article with the title
“Relax and Live Longer” even featured an executive dictating
from an “electric massage table.”  Healthier Lifestyle  Beginning in the 1990s, experts have turned from finding
ways to make sitting healthier, to limiting the time spent
seated and developing alternatives. The first medically inspired
treadmill desk may have been introduced in 1996. The theory
behind the idea, however, was developed later by  James Levine  of
the  Mayo Clinic , a physician who originally studied obesity.
Levine and other “ inactivity specialists ” have documented how
many chronic ills, from weight gain to high cholesterol and
diabetes, can be traced to sitting. In fact, sitting appears to
be the new smoking; even relatively brief intervals can be
dangerous.  Yet for much of the 19th century, the treadmill was reserved
not for elite business owners but for the criminal underclass.  The biologist and writer Stephanie Pain has traced its
origin in New Scientist magazine. William Cubitt, a young
machine builder and later an eminent civil engineer, was already
a renewable-energy pioneer for his  self-regulating wind sail 
when he invented the modern treadmill in 1817-18, creating a
wheel of steps that compelled the prisoner to keep powering the
device or fall.  Ancient Romans and medieval Europeans had used a kind of
human hamster wheel to operate siege engines and cranes, but the
operators had walked securely inside a cylinder, and weren’t
attempting to keep pace with an external force.  The treadmill was the technological expression of the
fixation of the upper and middle classes on deterring crime and
promoting industrious habits by breaking the will of prisoners.
The phrase “hard labor” had been introduced by a 1779 act of
Parliament specifying work “of the hardest and most servile kind
in which drudgery is chiefly required” and “ignorance, neglect,
or obstinacy” would be impossible.  Cubitt’s device was an almost-immediate hit. The first
treadmill was built in a Suffolk jail in 1819; two years later,
Cubitt constructed a 10-wheel treadmill at Brixton (still an
 active prison ) with a simultaneous capacity of 126 prisoners.
Pain reports that a majority of British jails had treadmills by
1842.  ‘Unmitigated Terror’  Cubitt was no sadist. Fatiguing, meaningless punishments
existed before his treadmill. He sought a rational way of
powering equipment while supposedly teaching hard work, as well
as preventing crime. But using treadmills as a  power source  for
equipment turned out to be impractical, and the system could
only keep prisoners occupied and wear them down. In 1823, a
distinguished lawyer denounced the punishment to the government
as “a system of UNMITIGATED TERROR.”  As the investigative journalist Henry Mayhew  wrote in 1862 ,
the treadmill “combines the double moral absurdity of rendering
prison labour not only more than usually irksome, but also more
than usually profitless. If our forefathers were foolish enough
to expect to cure idleness by rendering work a punishment
(instead of endeavouring by industrial training to make it a
pleasure), it remained for the sages of our own time to seek to
impress lazy men with a sense of the beauty and value of
industry, by the invention of an instrument which is especially
adapted to render labour inordinately repulsive, by making it
inordinately useless.”  The system also created work for prison managers. The
wheel, as seen by Mayhew, was regulated by powering a giant fan,
but that wasn’t enough to keep an even speed, so a regulator
like a steam-engine governor had to control the pitch of the
fan. Special slide rules were devised to ensure that the
workload was uniform among the more than 200 prisons in  England .  Curiously, some of the system’s defenders weren’t
reactionaries, but a group of reforming Quakers who displayed
doctors’ testimonials that treadmill-working prisoners were
healthier.  A few treadmills were still in use in the mid-1890s. One
was in Reading Gaol, and was made notorious by  Oscar Wilde , who
was among the treadmill’s last victims; their use wasn’t
abolished until 1898.  The treadmill desk should remind today’s privileged
executives of the perils associated with technological momentum:
How difficult it is to stop a well-intended, but fatally flawed,
idea once it has become sufficiently entrenched.  ( Edward Tenner  is author of “Why Things Bite Back:
Technology and the Revenge of  Unintended Consequences ” and “Our
Own Devices: How Technology Remakes Humanity.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more from  Echoes  online.  To contact the writer of this post:
Edward Tenner at  info@edwardtenner.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  