-- Treasury Asks Dealers for Comment on Policy Changes, Swaps
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-01-18T19:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/treasury-asks-dealers-for-comment-on-policy-changes-swaps-1-.html
The U.S. Treasury Department asked
bond dealers for their views on how policy and regulatory
changes are affecting the government-debt market as part of its
regular survey ahead of quarterly meetings and auctions.  The Treasury, in a questionnaire sent today, asked for
comment on the “current drivers of supply and demand in the
Treasury bill and repo markets” and “to what extend are
pending policy and regulatory developments” are impacting
trading. Dealers were also asked how derivative registration and
new reporting requirements affect the interest-rate swap market
and whether there is any notable impact on the Treasury market.  Regulatory changes that may affect the Treasury market
include Basel III liquidity requirements, the prospect of
adjustments being put in place to reduce risk in the U.S. money
market industry, as well as the  Federal Reserve ’s efforts to
reduce the risk associated with the tri-party repurchase
agreement market. Basel’s so-called liquidity coverage ratio, or
LCR, is aimed to help ensure banks have a sufficient buffer of
liquidity for use in a financial crisis.  “There has been a drift lower in repo rates this year,”
said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in New York at
Jefferies & Co., one of 21 primary dealers that act as
counterparties with the Fed on open market operations and bid at
Treasury auctions. “We are also inching closer to a lot of the
swap regulations being implemented, so they want to see how
dealers expect the Treasury market to react.”  Twist Ends  The rate to borrowing and lending Treasuries in the
repurchase agreement, or  repo , market fell by more than half
this month as unlimited government insurance on some bank
accounts expired, potentially boosting demand for government
debt as an alternative, and the Fed ended short-term debt sales
under what became known as Operation Twist.  The dealer survey is for Jan. 31-Feb. 1 meetings between
Treasury officials and bond dealers in advance of the
government’s quarterly auctions of notes and bonds. The
government’s next so-called quarterly refunding announcement is
scheduled for Feb. 6.  There was about $1.6 trillion in cash as of last quarter
sitting in non-interest bearing transactions accounts with
balances above $250,000 that in January lost temporary insurance
coverage put in place in 2008. The unlimited insurance was part
of the Transaction Account Guarantee program, or TAG,
implemented by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in 2008 and
extended by the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010 as a way to shore up
banks during the financial crisis.  Swap Legislation  The overnight Treasury repurchase agreement  rate , measured
by the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. general-collateral
finance repo index, was 0.118 percent yesterday, compared to an
average in the fourth-quarter of 0.25 percent and as high as
0.526 percent on Oct. 29.  Demand for government debt may rise as margin requirements
on swaps required by the Dodd-Frank Act are put in place, given
the need for high-quality capital, according to Bank of America
Corp.  Under the 2010 Dodd-Frank changes, dealers and money
managers that trade swaps will need to find cash and securities
to back the trades. Under Commodity Futures Trading Commission
rules, clearinghouses are required to collect initial margin,
the minimum amount of cash or eligible securities investors must
deposit to cover the risk of default.  Debt Ceiling  Dodd-Frank requires swaps be moved to  central
counterparties  to limit the kinds of risks that fueled panic
during the 2008 credit crisis.  Unlike the fall in repo rates, those on short-term Treasury
bills maturing around the time the U.S. is forecast to run out
of money to pay its obligations have risen amid concern
lawmakers may fail to agree to lift the debt ceiling.  The Treasury reached its statutory borrowing limit on Dec.
31 and is using “extraordinary” measures to pay for the
government. It will lack sufficient funds to pay all its bills
as early as Feb. 15, according to the Washington-based
Bipartisan Policy Center.  The  one-month  Treasury bill  rate  rose to as high as 0.08
percent on Jan. 16, from about zero at the end of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at   kcostelloe@bloomberg.net ;
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  