-- Record Booze Profits Bolster Ohio Job-Bond Offer: Muni Credit
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2013-01-18T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/record-booze-profits-bolster-ohio-job-bond-offer-muni-credit.html
Ohio’s record liquor profits are set
to increase demand for $1.5 billion of bonds to fund the private
entity Governor  John Kasich  created to spur job growth, even as
unresolved litigation hangs over the deal.  JobsOhio plans to sell the combination of taxable and tax-
exempt debt as soon as next week in the largest municipal offer
by Ohio issuers since 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
bonds will be backed by liquor profits, which reached an all-
time high of about $251 million in fiscal 2012, according to the
Ohio Office of Budget and Management.  The deal, which involves transferring the state’s wholesale
liquor distribution system to JobsOhio for 25 years, had been
delayed by legal challenges. The revenue paying the bonds will
attract investors, even though some may demand extra yield to
compensate for the litigation, said Alan Schankel, head of
fixed-income research at financial services firm Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC.  “One thing that I don’t see falling away is liquor
consumption,” Schankel said from Philadelphia. Investor
interest will be “pretty significant,” he said.  $100 Million Yearly  Kasich, 60, a Republican who took office in 2011,
recommended JobsOhio and the transfer of liquor profits to fund
economic development. The nonprofit started up that year after
the legislature approved the plan.  The goal is to complete deals more quickly and creatively
to give Ohio an edge over states such as Michigan and  Indiana  in
competing for jobs. Kasich’s administration expects about $100
million will be available yearly, more than development entities
such as the Michigan Economic Development Corp. have to spend.  Two Democratic lawmakers and ProgressOhio, a Columbus
nonprofit group, challenged JobsOhio in court, saying it
violates the state constitution by funneling public dollars to a
private entity.  Their complaint was dismissed by a Franklin County judge in
December 2011 on the grounds that they didn’t have the right to
sue. An appeals court upheld the decision in June. The parties
 appealed  the standing ruling in July to the Ohio Supreme Court,
which has yet to act.  The lingering legal challenge is crimping the debt’s credit
standing. Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services assigned an AA
rating, its third-highest. Yet Moody’s Investors Service issued
an A2 grade, sixth-highest.  Credit Gap  The debt would have been rated more along the lines of
other Ohio bonds backed by liquor profits, two or three levels
higher, without the legal risk, said  Ted Hampton , a New York-
based analyst at Moody’s.  Ohio sold taxable Build America Bonds in 2009 with a
similar backing of liquor profits and an Aa2 Moody’s rating,
three steps higher than next week’s offer. Securities maturing
in October 2024 traded Jan. 16 with an average yield of 3.43
percent, or about 1.5 percentage points above benchmark
Treasuries, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Without a court resolution, investors may be wary about the
new debt, said Howard Cure, director of muni research in  New
York  for Evercore Wealth Management, which oversees about $3.8
billion.  Risk Assessment  “Unless it’s something particularly attractive -- and my
sense is it won’t be -- I’m not sure it’s worth the risk of
buying it before the litigation is resolved,” Cure said.  Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., lead underwriters
on the deal, are holding investor meetings in U.S. cities and in
 London  to market it, according to an invitation.  Elizabeth Seymour, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, and Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Citigroup, both declined to comment.  About $1.1 billion of the sale will be federally taxable,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The sale may benefit from international demand, given that
investors outside the country are increasingly comfortable with
U.S. munis following the introduction of taxable Build America
Bonds, Schankel said.  In Ohio, there are no government-run liquor stores, though
the state buys and distributes alcohol to retailers.  Profit Transfer  JobsOhio has agreed to pay the state $500 million for the
transfer of profits, while using about $850 million to retire
debt backed by the liquor money and $225 million for uses such
as economic revitalization and working capital, said John Minor,
the group’s president in Columbus.  Brian Rothenberg, executive director of ProgressOhio, said
in a telephone interview it is “absurd” for JobsOhio to sell
the securities without having the legal issues settled.  “There’s clearly a question on whether this is
constitutional,” he said.  Kasich said it’s “critical” that JobsOhio expand and take
better advantage of development opportunities. He also
downplayed the risk of the litigation.  “I don’t want to hold things up on the basis of what might
happen in another court hearing,” he told reporters in Columbus
Jan. 9. “Any time you do any bonding there are risks involved,
whether it’s a company, a local community or JobsOhio. The
ratings take that into account.”  Kasich’s Complaint  Kasich’s administration filed a complaint Aug. 10 in the
Ohio  Supreme Court  seeking to clarify the legality of JobsOhio.
The court dismissed the case, saying it didn’t have
jurisdiction.  Ohio’s economy is rebounding after losing more than 550,000
jobs from 2000 to 2010, according to federal data. The state’s
 jobless rate  was 6.8 percent in November, compared with 7.8
percent  nationally . Michigan, Illinois and Indiana had rates of
8 percent or above.  The largest bond sale by Ohio issuers was about $5.5
billion in tax-exempt securities in 2007 by the Buckeye Tobacco
Settlement Financing Authority, according to the budget office.  In the $3.7 trillion muni-bond market yesterday, yields on
10-year benchmark munis rose from a one-month low, by 0.01
percentage point to 1.7 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The pending case is ProgressOhio.org Inc. v. JobsOhio,
2012-Ohio-1272, Supreme Court of  Ohio .  Following is a pending sale:  NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY plans to issue
$2.2 billion of school construction bonds and notes as soon as
next week, according to Moody’s Investors Service. Proceeds will
go toward refunding debt, which will reduce variable-rate
securities and terminate swap agreements. (Added Jan. 17)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at   mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  