-- REITs Gaining 26% Ditch Failing Shopping Malls: Mortgages
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-01-18T22:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/reits-gaining-26-ditch-failing-shopping-malls-mortgages.html
Mall owners including  Simon Property
Group Inc. (SPG)  and  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the biggest in
the U.S., are signaling they’re moving on from struggling retail
centers as the economic rebound drives them to focus on the
best-performing markets.  A $94 million loan on a South Dakota mall owned by Simon,
the largest U.S. real estate investment trust, was transferred
last month to a special servicer, which negotiates with
landlords on behalf of bondholders. General Growth had three
malls with loan-workout firms in the third quarter, and  Glimcher
Realty Trust (GRT)  Realty Trust handed over a loan on a mall in its
hometown of Columbus, Ohio, to a special servicer in October.  Mall landlords were the second-best-performing U.S. REIT
group last year, gaining 26 percent, even as the delinquency
rate for retail properties remains close to the April 2011 peak,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The operators are
focusing on the most lucrative markets, while turning to special
servicers or even giving properties back to lenders in a sign
that some shopping centers may never fully recover from the real
estate crash.  “There are some tired malls out there that shouldn’t exist
and won’t exist in a few years,” Ryan Severino, a senior
economist at  Reis Inc. (REIS) , a New York-based real estate data
company. “It’s very difficult to bounce back. Very difficult.”  Troubled properties -- which are often older and in less-
populated areas -- are being left out of a rebound spurred by
improved store performance. Retail sales climbed 5.2 percent
last year, the Commerce Department reported on Jan. 15.  Best REITs  Mall companies were the best-performing REIT industry group
in 2012 after industrial and warehouse owners, whose shares
gained 27 percent last year. An  index  of shopping mall operators
was little changed today in New York after gaining 0.4 percent
this month.  General Growth gained 36 percent in 2012, making it the
second-best performer in the nine-member index. The company’s
funds from operations rose 8.8 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier to $231 million. The measure is a gauge of cash
flow used by REITs.  The Chicago-based company is focusing on properties that
generate the highest sales per square foot for tenants and
deciding whether to sell lower-quality centers, Chief Executive
Officer  Sandeep Mathrani  said on a Nov. 1 conference call with
analysts.  “We want to own and operate high-quality regional malls in
the best markets,” he said. “We’ve been very focused on
identifying opportunities to acquire assets that fit within this
strategy, and also to identify and ultimately dispose of those
assets we consider non-core that do not fit our long-term
plans.”  Three Malls  General Growth had three malls in special servicing in the
third quarter: West Oaks in Ocoee,  Florida , Regency Square Mall
in Jacksonville, Florida, and Southlake Mall in suburban
Atlanta, according to a supplemental filing on the company’s
website.  Simon, based in Indianapolis, reported that funds from
operations jumped 19 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier to $720 million. The company, which owned or had stakes
in 329 properties as of Jan. 11, had a 23 percent stock gain in
2012.  The loan on Simon’s Rushmore Mall in Rapid City, South
Dakota, was packaged into a bond and sold as a commercial-
mortgage-backed security. It was transferred to a special
servicer Dec. 11, according to Fitch Ratings. The 830,000-
square-foot (77,000-square-meter) center was built in 1978 and
renovated in 1993, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Simon
acquired full ownership after a multiple-property swap with its
partner on the mall,  Macerich (MAC)  Co., Simon said in February.  Market Peaked  The mall had an appraised value of $117.5 million in 2006
as the commercial-property market peaked, and was appraised at
$45 million in September 2011, less than half the amount owed on
it, the data show. The occupancy rate for the mall was about 87
percent in the third quarter, down from 96 percent at the end of
2011, according to a regulatory filing. CWCapital Asset
Management is the special servicer for the debt.  Michael Goodwin, a spokesman for CWCapital with public-
relations firm Makovsky in New York, declined to comment on its
mall loans in special servicing. Les Morris, a Simon spokesman,
also declined to comment.  Underwater Malls  “There are still malls that are underwater,” Rich Moore,
an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Solon,  Ohio , said in a
telephone interview, referring to properties worth less than
what’s owed on them. “Just because the economy is better
doesn’t change that.”  The rate of U.S. retail properties with debt payments 60
days or more late was 6.56 percent last month, little changed
from a year earlier and close to the 6.91 percent rate in April
2011, the highest in Bloomberg CMBS data going back more than
five years.  The biggest reason properties go into special servicing is
because the value of the property is lower than the amount of
the loan, said Cedrik Lachance, an analyst with Green Street
Advisors Inc. in Newport Beach,  California . When that happens,
the landlord doesn’t have as much incentive to put money into
the real estate and is likely to hand it over to the lender.
More often than not, the property is put up for sale after going
into special servicing, he said.  West Oaks was sold for $15.9 million to West Oaks Mall FL
LLC, which has a Las Vegas address, on Nov. 21, according to a
quit-claim deed filed in Orange County, Florida. The buyers won
the property in an auction conducted by CWCapital, which agreed
to forgive the debt owed by General Growth in exchange for
proceeds from the sale, said Steven Maksin, a principal of the
group that bought the property.  ‘Great Asset’  “It’s going to take some time to turn the mall around,”
said Maksin, chief executive officer of Moonbeam Capital
Investments LLC. “It’s a great asset, well located.”  Investors in the bonds backed by the West Oaks loan lost
$50 million with the sale, according to a Dec. 26 report by
Standard & Poor’s.  David Keating, a spokesman for General Growth, said in an
e-mail that the company no longer owns West Oaks, and declined
to comment on Southlake and Regency Square.  Other mall REITs are looking to sell their lower-quality
malls to improve the quality of their portfolios, Nathan Isbee,
an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, wrote in a
Jan. 7 note. Macerich, for example, has started marketing 17
lower-quality malls in secondary markets, he said. Thomas O’Hern, chief financial officer at Santa Monica, California-
based Macerich, didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment on
possible sales.  Languishing Malls  Malls that are No. 2 or 3 in their markets and haven’t been
renovated recently aren’t performing as well as those with
upscale stores or dining and entertainment attractions, Craig Guttenplan, a REIT analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  London , said
in a telephone interview. When the economy was stronger, retail
spending was high enough to support more malls, Guttenplan said.  “Lower-quality malls are going to languish until consumer
spending ramps up across the board,” he said.  Glimcher had the loan on its 1 million-square-foot Eastland
Mall in Columbus transferred to special servicer LNR Partners so
it could work out a restructuring of the debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The loan balance is about $41 million.  Glimcher is in talks with LNR and exploring its options,
Karen Bailey, a Glimcher spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Competitive Positions  The mall, with tenants including  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , was 74
percent occupied at the end of October, Bloomberg data show. The
property is located near other malls and has vacancies in its
anchor space, according to Lachance.  “It doesn’t have the greatest of competitive positions,”
Lachance said in a telephone interview. “It’s a mall that’s
reasonably productive at this point, but its competitive
position is eroding.”  Malls can go from being valuable to being worth next to
nothing if occupancies decline with the loss of retailers that
help draw customers, Lachance said.  “As vacancies start to mount, the problems really multiply
themselves,” he said. “It might be a benefit for the company
to send the keys back rather than help the mall over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  