-- Reliance Profit Beats Estimates as Refining Margins Widen
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-01-19T02:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/reliance-profit-beats-estimates-as-oil-refining-margins-widen.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIGD) ,  India ’s
biggest company by market value, reported a better-than-
estimated quarterly profit after earnings increased from turning
crude oil into gasoline and diesel.  Third-quarter  net income  rose 24 percent to 55 billion
rupees ($1 billion), or 17 rupees a share, in the three months
ended Dec. 31 from 44.4 billion rupees, or 13.60 rupees, a year
earlier, Mumbai-based Reliance said yesterday in a filing.
Profit beat the 50.1 billion rupee  median estimate  of 25
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Sales rose 10 percent to 938.9
billion rupees.  Billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani , 55, is shifting focus
back to processing crude as Reliance’s output from India’s
largest natural gas block continues to wane. Economic recovery
from the U.S. to  China  is expected to lift global demand for
fuels that Reliance produces in the world’s biggest refining
complex in Gujarat state and sells overseas.  “Refining has been above estimates and its margins will be
steady over the next year or so,” said Neelabh Sharma, a
Mumbai-based analyst with BOB Capital Markets Ltd., a unit of
state-run  Bank of Baroda. (BOB)  “Earnings will get a new boost once
new projects start in about a year.”  Reliance’s  global depository receipts  in  London  climbed 4.1
percent to $34.11, the highest price since Feb. 22. The shares
have  increased  7.2 percent this year, adding to last year’s 21
percent surge, the most since 2009. The stock rose 1.2 percent
to 900.20 rupees in Mumbai trading yesterday, compared with a
0.4 percent gain in the key  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  The earnings were
announced after the market closed.  Heavier Crude  Reliance operates two refineries at Jamnagar in the western
state that can together process 1.24 million barrels of crude
every day. The plants can turn heavier grades of oil, which are
typically cheaper, into high-value fuels.  The company earned $9.6 for every barrel of crude it
processed in the quarter, compared with $6.8 a year earlier and
$9.5 a barrel in the previous three months. Profit from turning
Dubai crude into diesel in  Singapore , an Asian benchmark,
averaged $18.77 a barrel in the quarter, compared with $18.22 a
year earlier, according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a
London-based crude and refined-products broker.  Brent crude , a benchmark oil price used by much of the
world, averaged $110.13 a barrel in the three months ended Dec.
31, compared with $109.02 a year earlier.  Oil yesterday headed for the longest weekly rising streak
in 14 months in  New York  after economic growth accelerated in
China, the world’s second-biggest crude consumer. China’s gross
domestic product rose 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year earlier, compared with 7.4 percent in the previous period,
the National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday in Beijing.  Petrochemical Spending  Reliance is spending $8 billion to boost petrochemical
capacity and $4 billion on a plant to make combustible gas to
power its refineries, which will help it widen refining margins,
according to its website. The company had cash and equivalents
of 809.62 billion rupees and 722.66 billion rupees of debt
outstanding as of Dec. 31, according to the statement.  Gas production from the KG-D6 block in the  Bay of Bengal 
declined 37 percent to 275 billion cubic feet in the nine months
ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, Reliance said yesterday. The
drop was because of reservoir complexity and a natural decline
in output, it said.  The company last month began drilling its first well in the
KG-D6 block in more than a year, seeking to start output from
new areas within the KG-D6 block. The newer fields may produce
as much as 10 million cubic meters of gas a day starting 2015,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Gas Rates  Reliance’s plans to raise production may get a boost if the
government accepts the recommendations of a panel led by
Chakravarthy Rangarajan, chief of the prime minister’s Economic
Advisory Council. The panel wants gas rates in India to be
benchmarked to global rates, which will raise prices to about $8
per million British thermal units.  Reliance currently sells the fuel from the KG-D6 block for
$4.2 per million Btu, a price which comes up for revision in
April 2014.  The explorer, which also operates chemical plants and
retail stores,  sold stakes  in KG-D6 and 20 other blocks to  BP
Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil producer by market value, as
Ambani sought the London-based company’s technology to drill and
produce gas from the deepwater area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  