-- Rental-Home Bond Deals Need Costlier Structures for Moody’s
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-01-18T13:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/rental-home-bond-issuers-need-costlier-structures-moody-s-says.html
Issuers of securities tied to U.S.
rental homes will struggle to obtain ratings above the lowest
investment-grade tier from Moody’s Investors Service unless they
choose structures with higher expenses, a potential setback to
property buyers led by  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   The bonds would be safest if backed by mortgages on each
individual property, rather than secured by a trust that owns a
pool of homes, the New York-based ratings firm said in a report.
That’s partly because the trust may be ensnared in a bankruptcy
filing by the company that created it, potentially exposing
bondholders’ collateral to claims by other creditors.  The bankruptcy scenario creates a “low-probability, but
high-severity risk” for those structures, which some potential
issuers have approached Moody’s about using, Yehudah Forster, a
senior credit officer, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Blackstone, Colony Capital LLC and Pine River Capital
Management LP’s  Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. (SBY)  were among firms
accelerating their purchases of homes to offer as rentals in
2012, helping halt a five-year  slump  in values. Transactions
involving investors jumped 75 percent in November from a year
earlier in 25 metropolitan areas tracked by Radar Logic Inc. as
total sales rose 7.6 percent, the analytics firm  said  this week.  Housing Bubble  The use of securitizations to boost returns with borrowed
money and extract cash may aid the transformation of a market
once dominated by small buyers into a new institutional asset
class that, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co., may reach $1.5
trillion. Blackstone, which has spent more than $2.5 billion on
16,000 homes, is already using other financing, a  credit line 
from Deutsche Bank AG opened last year.  Ratings companies began commenting last year on how they
would approach assessing potential securities backed by rental
homes, a market fueled by the foreclosure crisis they helped
create by granting inflated grades to mortgage bonds.  Moody’s said in August that items including a dearth of
historical data on the business could make it difficult for
issuers to obtain the grades they seek.  In its report today, Moody’s said it wouldn’t offer its
“highest ratings” to deals backed by “equity” structures,
rather than individual mortgages, also because they would offer
less protection against “unauthorized sales” of homes and new
liens.  Limited Data  Adding mortgages on individual properties carries costs to
create and register the loans, Moody’s said. In  New York City ,
for instance, the tax associated with a $500,000 mortgage is
more than $10,000, the firm said.  Bonds from low- or unrated sponsors seeking to avoid those
expenses will need to allow for “significant third-party
oversight” to achieve ratings in its lowest investment-grade
tier of Baa, Moody’s said. “Highly rated sponsors have the
ability to achieve higher ratings even with an equity structure
because of the reduced risk of a sponsor bankruptcy.”  While issuers may choose to not to tap Moody’s for grades,
 Fitch Ratings  said in August that it’s unlikely to grant ratings
in its top AAA or AA categories to deals tied to rental homes.  It cited the “limited performance data for the sector and
individual property management firms” as well as for “market
rents, rent roll histories, vacancy rates, and supply and
demand.” The “ambitious growth strategies by regional
operators looking to expand their portfolios rapidly over the
near term” is another concern, New York-based Fitch said.  Individual mortgages aren’t the only way to protect
securitization investors from a sponsor’s bankruptcy, said
 Steve Blevit , an attorney at Sidley Austin LLP who represented
Deutsche Bank as it extended a $600 million credit line to
Blackstone in October.  “The Moody’s analysis is good as far as it goes,” Blevit,
 who’s also working on rental-home securitization plans, said in
a telephone interview from  Los Angeles . “But it fails to take
into account additional legal structuring that leading players
in the industry are planning for these types of transactions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  