-- Restaurants Cut Steak Prices to Win Back Hockey Fans
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-01-18T05:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/restaurants-cut-steak-prices-to-win-back-hockey-fans.html
Boston Pizza Royalties Income Fund (BPF-U) 
and  Sportscene Group Inc. (SPS/A)  are among companies ramping up
advertising and offering discounts to win back National Hockey
League fans after a 17-week lockout that cost Canadian companies
as much as C$800 million ($812 million).  Sportscene, which operates 52 Cage aux Sports restaurants
in  Quebec , cut prices this week on chicken kebab and steak while
running television ads featuring Chief Executive Officer Jean Bedard. Boston Pizza, operator of about 350 sports restaurants
in Canada, is retraining staff and planning promotions with
 Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP) , maker of Molson Canadian and Coors
Light beer.  “The economy isn’t as strong as in the last NHL lockout,
so we’re doing our part,” Bedard said in a telephone interview.
“I’m confident we’ll get people back. A 48-game season means
that every game is important.”  NHL hockey resumes tomorrow for a shortened six-month
season. Team owners locked out players on Sept. 16 for the
second time in eight years in a dispute over revenue sharing,
depriving Canadians of a pastime that prompted 64 percent of the
population to watch the gold medal hockey game between Canada
and the U.S. at the Vancouver Winter Olympics in 2010.  Douglas Porter , an economist at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto, estimates the halt in NHL operations trimmed C$700
million to C$800 million off economic output as consumers cut
spending in sports bars near the arenas and fans bought fewer
team apparel.  T-bone Sale  “The lockout wasn’t a huge deal for the economy but it was
a big deal if you sold jerseys or ran a restaurant close to an
arena,” Porter said in a telephone interview. “There was
substitution from bars and restaurants that are close to arenas
to other establishments away from the city center.”  Sam Yoges, general manager of The Office Pub sports bar in
downtown Toronto, said he lost an estimated C$50,000 in sales
since October as business dropped 25 percent to 30 percent. He
got creative with the “Lockout Deal.”  “It’s a pint, a T-bone steak, chicken wings and onion
wings for $20,” he said. “It was very popular.” Yoges said he
will bring back the special to kick-start business now that
hockey is back in Canada’s largest city.  Game-day spending at businesses near downtown arenas in
five Canadian cities dropped 11 percent in October from the same
period a year earlier, according to data compiled by Moneris
Solutions, the country’s largest credit and debit card
processor. The drop was steepest at bars in “close proximity”
to arenas, where spending plunged 35 percent, Moneris said.  Molson Impact  Passion for the sport runs deep in Canada, home to seven of
the NHL’s 30 franchises and about 617,000 registered amateur
players, the most of all countries tracked by the International
Ice Hockey Federation. The U.S. is next with about 511,000
players, according to the federation’s website.  Molson Coors  shares lost 6.9 percent of their value in  New
York  from the start of the lockout through Jan. 11. Boston Pizza
gained 2.6 percent while Sportscene declined 6.7 percent.  Montreal  Canadiens President Geoff Molson, a director at
the beer company, was one of at least three club owners to
apologize to fans for the dispute.  “Everyone was a loser in this lockout,” Molson said Jan.
7, declining to provide specific figures on how much revenue the
Canadiens lost. “We didn’t get to fill the Bell Centre. The
bars and restaurants around the community were empty on Tuesday
and Saturday night.”  Beer Sales  Molson’s beer business felt the effects of the work
stoppage. Molson Coors, the NHL’s official beer sponsor, said
Nov. 7 its  sales  in  Canada  dropped by as much as 9 percent in
the first four weeks of the fourth quarter compared with the
same period a year earlier. Canada accounted for 31 percent of
the brewer’s $6.69 billion in sales last year.  To make up for lost business, Molson Coors plans to start
running promotions in bars and arenas once the season starts,
said Ferg Devins, a spokesman for the company’s Canadian unit.  The end of the lockout is “a negative that’s going away
for Molson Coors,” Robert Ottenstein, an analyst at
International Strategy & Investment Group LLC in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “Hockey is an important beer-drinking
occasion, and those lost occasions have got to hurt in the
quarter they’re going to report.”  Molson Coors will announce fourth-quarter results Feb. 14.
Excluding some costs and gains, the company is expected to
report profit of 64 cents a share, the average estimate in a
Bloomberg  survey  of nine analysts. That compares with  profit  of
97 cents in the same period a year earlier.  Vancouver Pizza  Sales at  Boston  Pizza are down 1 percent to 2 percent
compared with last year’s hockey season, said Steve Silverstone,
a spokesman. Boston Pizza, a name the original owner chose
because of his love of all things Boston, temporarily changed
its name to Vancouver Pizza in 2011 as the  Vancouver Canucks 
battled the  Boston Bruins  in NHL’s Stanley Cup finals.  Boucherville, Quebec-based Sportscene said yesterday that
net income for the quarter ended Nov. 25 fell 36 percent to
C$637,000. The company blamed a 4.9 percent drop in revenue on
the NHL lockout.  An expected increase in customer traffic at Cage aux Sports
restaurants as play resumes “should allow to recover, in
upcoming months, part of the revenue shortfall sustained,”
Bedard said.  Teams in the U.S. are planning promotions to bring back
fans. The  Tampa Bay Lightning  offered a $200 ticket for all 24
home games in the shortened season. Pittsburgh Penguins fans who
come to watch  Sidney Crosby  can get free concession-stand items
including hot dogs, popcorn and pretzels, plus 50 percent off
souvenirs at the first four home games.  Broken Sticks  Bauer Performance Sports Ltd. (BAU) , which makes helmets, sticks
and skates used by some NHL players, also felt the lockout.
“Fewer games means fewer broken sticks means fewer stick
sales,” CEO Kevin Davis said on a Jan. 10 conference call.  Even with the lockout, fan interest for hockey remains high
across Canada.  In Montreal, only eight of about 15,000 season tickets were
canceled during the lockout, Donald Beauchamp, a spokesman for
the team, said in a telephone interview. The Canadiens, who have
about 4,000 people on a waiting list for season tickets, have
sold out 333 consecutive games -- a string that stretches back
to January 2004.  Peter Sergakis, who owns Station des Sports, a chain of six
sports-themed restaurants in the Montreal area, hopes the trend
is indicative of how casual fans will react. Business at the
chain dropped 40 percent in December, leading him to cut jobs by
10 percent and reduce working hours by as much as 20 percent.  Sergakis said he’s started recalling staff and is
proceeding with plans to open a seventh outlet in Laval, north
of Montreal.  “When you are down 40 percent, you are way in the red, but
that doesn’t mean it’s a lost season,” Sergakis said in a
telephone interview. “Everybody needs an escape in life, and
hockey makes people happy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  