-- Retirement Savings Accounts Draw U.S. Consumer Bureau Attention
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/retirement-savings-accounts-draw-u-s-consumer-bureau-attention.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau is weighing whether it should take on a role
in helping Americans manage the $19.4 trillion they have put
into retirement savings, a move that would be the agency’s first
foray into consumer investments.  “That’s one of the things we’ve been exploring and are
interested in in terms of whether and what authority we have,”
bureau director  Richard Cordray  said in an interview. He didn’t
provide additional details.  The bureau’s core concern is that many Americans, notably
those from the retiring Baby Boom generation, may fall prey to
financial scams, according to three people briefed on the CFPB’s
deliberations who asked not to be named because the matter is
still under discussion.  The retirement savings business in the U.S. is dominated by
a group of companies that handle record-keeping and management
of investments in tax-advantaged vehicles like 401(k) plans and
individual retirement accounts. The group includes  Fidelity
Investments ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  and  T.
Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW)  Americans held  $19.4 trillion  in
retirement assets as of Sept. 30, 2012, according to the
 Investment Company Institute , an industry association; about
$3.5 trillion of that was in 401(k) plans.  The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department
of Labor are the main regulators of U.S. retirement savings
vehicles and funds. However, the consumer bureau -- established
by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act -- sees itself as a potential
catalyst for promoting a coherent policy across the government,
the people said.  Rollover ‘Moment’  With large numbers of Americans heading toward retirement
in the coming decade, the CFPB has referred internally to this
concept as “the rollover moment,” the people said.  Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation studies at
the  Cato Institute , a research group that promotes free markets,
said that while Dodd-Frank didn’t specifically give the consumer
bureau jurisdiction over investments, it could step in if the
other agencies don’t.  “I could imagine the CFPB growing into a role on
investment savings if it seems like the SEC is asleep at the
wheel,” Calabria said in an interview.  The bureau could claim jurisdiction through its Office for
Older Americans, which was established by Dodd-Frank with a
mandate to improve financial literacy. It is run by Hubert H. Humphrey III, the former attorney general of  Minnesota .  The retirement savings industry generally has little to do
with the CFPB because the SEC is the main investment regulator,
said Ianthe Zabel, an ICI spokeswoman. She declined further
comment on the CFPB plans.  Credit Products  The agency officially began work in July 2011 and has
focused much of its attention so far on consumer credit
products, including credit cards and mortgages. In coming
months, the agency is expected to turn their focus to short-term
credit products including prepaid  debit cards , bank overdraft
fees and payday lending.  Longer-term, in addition to focusing on retirement savings,
the bureau is studying mobile payments and the plight of
Americans whose credit was damaged during the financial crisis,
a group officials refer to as “the new subprime.”  “It may be because of things they did and it may just be
because they suffered,” Cordray said in the interview. “You
know if you lose your home because the rest of your block is
foreclosed on, your credit history is affected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  