-- RG Steel Creditors Ask Ability to Sue Billionaire Rennert
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-01-18T23:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/rg-steel-creditors-ask-ability-to-sue-billionaire-rennert.html
Creditors of RG Steel LLC are asking
for court permission to sue billionaire Ira L. Rennert, founder
of Renco Group Inc., which owns the bankrupt former steelmaker,
claiming he failed to perform his fiduciary obligations to the
company.  The official committee of unsecured creditors of RG Steel,
the fourth-biggest U.S. flat-rolled steelmaker when it sought
court protection, claim in court papers that Rennert delayed the
company’s bankruptcy filing for about six months when it was
“already hopelessly insolvent” in order to protect his own
interests.  The creditors estimate that a successful lawsuit could
generate more than $238 million in proceeds for RG Steel and its
creditors, according to court documents filed yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “The committee believes that prosecuting the Rennert
claims would be appropriate and may provide recoveries in excess
of $238 million,” lawyers for the creditors said in court
papers.  The creditors claim Rennert caused the delay so Renco Group
could transfer a portion of its equity interests in RG Steel’s
parent in an effort to avoid obligations on the steelmaker’s
underfunded pension plan. They also argue the delay caused the
company to lose value in a coke-supplying joint venture.  ‘Frivolous’ Claims  “These claims are frivolous and without merit,” said
Andrew Shea, spokesman for the Renco Group, in a telephone
interview.  The committee said in court papers, it is “crucial” that
it have authority to pursue the litigation because demanding RG
Steel to bring such actions “would be futile” due to its
“inherent conflict of interest in suing its majority equity
holder and controlling manager.”  Renco Group bought the three-plant steelmaker from  Russia ’s
 OAO Severstal (CHMF)  in 2011 for about $1.2 billion, less than three
years after Severstal acquired it for $2.2 billion. Renco
created RG Steel to buy the mills, which could produce 8.2
million tons of steel a year.  The company and its affiliates are 75 percent-owned by
Renco, with the remaining equity owned by Cerberus RG Investor
LLC, according to court papers.  ‘Liquidity Problems’  RG Steel was forced to seek bankruptcy protection because
of “substantial liquidity problems” it began to face during
mid-2011, “driven by a rapid decline in steel prices, while raw
material prices remained at peak levels,” according to court
filings. The company, based in Sparrows Point,  Maryland , listed
assets and debt of more than $1 billion each in Chapter 11
documents filed May 31.  The company sold its prized asset, the steel-making
facilities in Sparrows Point, on the outskirts of Baltimore, in
August to Environmental Liability Transfer Inc., Commercial
Development Co. and Hilco Trading Co. for about $72.5 million.  The lead case is In re WP Steel Venture LLC, 12-11661, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  