-- RIM Reaches 11-Month High After Jefferies Buy Rating
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-01-18T21:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/rim-climbs-after-jefferies-lifts-rating-to-buy.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  climbed to
its highest price in almost a year after a Jefferies & Co.
analyst upgraded the stock to buy, citing the potential for its
new software to offer corporate e-mail on rival devices.  RIM rose 6.2 percent to $15.84 at the close in New York,
its highest level since Feb. 9.  Peter Misek , a Jefferies
analyst, said the company may be able to retain more corporate
customers because its new BlackBerry 10 secure e-mail will be
available on smartphones that run  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iOS and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  RIM’s value has more than doubled since late September amid
growing investor optimism that the new BlackBerry 10 software
set to debut Jan. 30 can engineer a sales recovery and return to
profit. Earlier this week, the Waterloo, Ontario-based company
said more than 1,600 companies in  North America  have signed up
to test out BlackBerry 10, reflecting business users’ enthusiasm
to try the new phones.  The fact that BlackBerry 10 will offer companies the option
of offering secure BlackBerry e-mail service on rival devices is
“unknown or not well understood,” Misek wrote in the note,
where he lifted his  rating  from hold for the first time since
April 2011. He also raised his price target on RIM to $19.50
from $13.  Investors could win if “RIM creates a successful software
business on top of Android/iOS,” he wrote.  Apple’s and Google’s operating systems are the main reason
RIM has lost so much market share in recent years. RIM was
poised to finish 2012 with a 4.7 percent share of the global
market, compared with almost 90 percent for Apple and Android
combined, research firm IDC said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  