-- Trina, JinkoSolar Plan to Lift Shipments in 2013 as Demand Rises
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-18T03:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/trina-jinkosolar-plan-to-lift-shipments-in-2013-as-demand-rises.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the world’s third-
biggest maker of solar panels, and  JinkoSolar Holding Co. (JKS)  expect
to deliver more products this year as  China ’s efforts to promote
its domestic solar industry take hold.  Growth in Changzhou, China-based Trina’s shipments will
surge by at least 30 percent in 2013 from a year ago, outpacing
global market demand, Terry Wang, Trina’s chief financial
officer, said in a phone interview. JinkoSolar, China’s eighth-
biggest panel producer, will boost shipments 20 percent to 30
percent to more than 1.2 gigawatts, said Sebastian Liu, the
Shanghai-based company’s director of investor relations.  Panel consumption “is rising all over the world except in
 Europe , and China will largely contribute to the increase,”
Wang said in the Jan. 17 interview. “Prices are still dipping
but, depending on Chinese demand, the decrease may stop in the
second half,” he said.  An increase in panel shipments may signal Chinese
manufacturers are turning more optimistic after a year when
prices of polysilicon plunged 40 percent and panels were down 19
percent. The 17-member  Bloomberg Global Large Solar Energy
Index (BISOLAR) , which includes JinkoSolar and Trina, has gained 26
percent this year compared with a loss of 26 percent last year.  Global Market Share  The two companies “will grab more market share as they
expect shipment growth to exceed that of worldwide demand” Lian Rui, a Beijing-based analyst at research company NPD Solarbuzz,
said by phone today.  China, the world’s second-largest solar market in 2012,
plans to more than double installations this year, the nation’s
National Energy Administration said on Jan. 8. China had
cumulative capacity of about 7 gigawatts last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  China will account for 30 percent or more of JinkoSolar’s
panels this year as efforts to stimulate the domestic solar
industry boost demand, Liu said.  Gains in Asia, together with the U.S. and  India , will more
than offset declines in Germany and  Italy , contributing to a 22
percent rise in global solar demand in 2013, Deutsche Bank AG
predicted in a Jan. 10 note to investors.  Trina has begun using two-thirds of its production capacity
this month, increasing from half in December, Wang said. He
expects the utilization rate to rise for the remainder of the
year as the company expands its photovoltaic system sales
business by developing its own projects.  The company said on Jan. 15 that it received approval from
China’s Gansu province for a 50-megawatt solar farm. Trina
expects profits to be generated from the business expansion
after the second quarter, Wang said.  Trina said yesterday that it supplied 61 megawatts of
modules to a power plant built on a former military airfield in
eastern  Germany .  JinkoSolar’s panel production capacity totals 1.2 gigawatts
annually and the company ran its factories at a utilization rate
of more than 80 percent last year, Liu said. The decline in
panel prices is slowing and may rebound after inventories are
depleted, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  