-- Rio’s Iron Man Made CEO After $40 Billion Profit
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-01-18T09:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/rio-s-iron-man-made-ceo-after-40-billion-profit-in-seven-years.html
When  Rio Tinto  Group decided it had
to part with Chief Executive Officer Tom Albanese, the second-
largest mining company turned to  Sam Walsh , whose  iron ore  unit
has generated almost $40 billion in profit in seven years.  In choosing the 63-year-old Australian grandfather of four,
the mining giant picked a leader whose reputation is as a cost-
cutter and a steady hand on the tiller. Walsh himself has
committed to the role for three years, according to a person
familiar with the appointment who asked not to be identified as
the details are confidential.  “Sam Walsh is a shorter-term CEO,” Credit Suisse Group AG
analysts Paul McTaggart and Michael Shillaker said in a report
yesterday. “His job will be to steady the ship, drive out costs
and see through the current growth projects.”  The appointment isn’t temporary, a spokeswoman for Rio said
today.  Walsh was put  in charge  yesterday after Albanese quit as
Rio said it will take a $14 billion writedown on the value of
takeovers the 55-year-old New Jersey native signed off on.
Albanese’s predecessor Leigh Clifford resigned in September 2007
at the age of 60 after seven years in the role.  Albanese is the third CEO among the largest London-traded
miners to announce their departure within the last five months.
 Mick Davis  of Xstrata Plc said in September he will give way to
Ivan Glasenberg six months after Glencore International Plc
completes its $36 billion takeover of the coal producer.  Cynthia Carroll  Anglo American Plc announced  Cynthia Carroll ’s departure in
October.  Mark Cutifani  takes over in April.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
has started searching for a successor to CEO Marius Kloppers,
the Financial Times reported in November.  Walsh will relocate from Perth to  London  to take the helm
of the $107 billion company after overseeing its most profitable
division for eight years. In that time, he drove expansions of
mines, ports and railways in  Australia  amid record prices for
the steelmaking raw material.  “I think he’ll be there for a year or two,” Paul Gait, a
London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in an
interview. “The company will continue to look for someone.”  Walsh’s appointment coincides with an industrywide surge in
costs and a Chinese-led slowing in consumption of commodities,
which has led to rising demands from investors for mining
companies to rein in spending and boost returns. Walsh will be
paid a base salary of A$1.9 million, a 15 percent increase from
his previous role, Rio said yesterday.  Melbourne University  The Melbourne University commerce-degree graduate spent 20
years in the automotive industry in Australia with General
Motors Co. and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  prior to joining Rio in 1991.
Eighteen years later, he was appointed to the Rio board. He’s on
the board of Seven West Media Ltd., the Australian television
broadcaster controlled by billionaire  Kerry Stokes .  Away from the office, Walsh’s passion is the arts. He is
chairman of the Perth-based  Black Swan State Theatre Company ,
which Rio sponsors, and on the board of  Western Australia ’s
Chamber of Arts and Culture. He collects antique milk jugs and
told a Fairfax Media Ltd. interviewer that he has 350, including
one that is 2,000 years old.  As head of Rio’s iron ore unit, Walsh oversaw a more than
$24 billion expansion of operations to feed surging steel demand
in  China , the company’s biggest customer and the world’s largest
consumer of the raw material. His time as head of the division
coincided with a shift in the way sales to customers were priced
as the industry, led by rival BHP Billiton Ltd., moved from
annual contracts to shorter periods.  BlackRock’s Hambro  “We’ve known Sam Walsh for a while so this is not a new
person that we will be dealing with inside of Rio Tinto,”  Evy Hambro , manager of BlackRock Inc.’s $12 billion World Mining
Fund, who counts Rio as his biggest holding, said yesterday in
an interview with Bloomberg Television in London. “Sam has
obviously had the benefit of world-class assets, he’s also had
the benefit of a very strong iron ore market for many years.”  Rio has partially completed an expansion at its flagship
iron ore assets in Western Australia at a cost of $22 billion,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG, that will increase export
capacity to 360 million tons a year by 2015. The unit generated
$12.8 billion of net income in 2011, 78 percent of profit.  Walsh was in charge of the division when Rio’s head of iron
ore in China, Australian  Stern Hu , was jailed for 10 years for
taking bribes and espionage. Three of his Chinese colleagues
were given sentences of as long as 14 years. The incident led to
Walsh ordering an independent review of the company’s processes
and controls.  Straight Shooter  “He is seen as a straight shooter, but the market will
likely adopt a wait-and-see approach to his leadership of this
large and diverse business,” Nomura International Plc London-
based analysts Sam Catalano and  David Radclyffe  wrote in a
report yesterday. “We do not expect to see any major change in
strategy.”  A call on whether to proceed with development of the
Simandou iron ore mine in  Guinea  will be one of the largest
spending decisions that will cross Walsh’s desk. Rio, the
second-biggest exporter of the raw material, has said Simandou
will cost more than $10 billion to build and described it as the
world’s largest undeveloped iron ore deposit.  “He’s got a pretty good strong reputation for capital
discipline,” Bernstein’s Gait said. “I can see him coming out
more publicly or more definitively on projects like Simandou in
West Africa than has been the case.”  Walsh may refrain from M&A in the near-term given the
failures of the $38 billion Alcan Inc. takeover in 2007 and the
A$3.9 billion ($4.1 billion) acquisition of Mozambique-focused
coal company Riversdale Mining Ltd. in 2011, which accounted for
Albanese, Nomura said.  ‘Continuity Candidate’  “He probably is somewhat of a continuity candidate,”  Jeff Largey , a mining analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said yesterday
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “I wouldn’t really
think that someone like him is going to come in and drive a
really big shake-up of Rio Tinto or its strategy.”  Since 2008, Rio has sold more than 20 assets with total
proceeds of more than $11 billion. A planned disposal of its
diamond projects was “well advanced,” while the divestment of
13 aluminum assets had stalled, Chief Financial Officer Guy Elliott said in August. Walsh will also oversee the start of
production at the $6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine
this year.  Walsh declined to be interviewed yesterday. “I will be
working flat out to build an even stronger, more valuable Rio
Tinto,” he said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  