-- ThromboGenics, Novartis Win EU OK for Jetrea Eye Drug
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-01-18T11:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/thrombogenics-novartis-win-eu-ok-for-jetrea-eye-drug.html
ThromboGenics NV (THR)  won the backing of
European Union regulators for the Jetrea eye drug, moving the
Belgian company closer to earning a payment of 90 million euros
($120 million) from its partner  Novartis AG. (NOVN)   The European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal
Products for Human Use recommended that Novartis be allowed to
market Jetrea for use in people with vitreomacular adhesion, a
condition which causes vision to become distorted or lost, the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a statement today. The
European Commission, which grants marketing approvals, usually
follows the committee’s advice.  ThromboGenics sold marketing rights for Jetrea outside the
U.S. to Novartis in March in a deal worth as much as 375 million
euros.  “Within a couple of years we should probably see peak
sales being achieved for this kind of product faster than on
average,” Jan De Kerpel, an analyst at KBC Securities NV in
Brussels, said in a telephone interview before today’s
announcement. “There’s no competition. It can grow faster in
terms of reaching its peak sales potential compared with other
products where there’s competition.”  ThromboGenics received an upfront payment of 75 million
euros from Novartis, will receive a further 45 million euros if
the drug is approved in Europe, and another 45 million euros on
the first sale of the product in any country outside the U.S.,
Wouter Piepers, a spokesman for ThromboGenics, said in an e-
mail. The company may receive another 210 million euros in
payments for meeting development goals, he said.  Sales Forecast  Novartis also will pay royalties to ThromboGenics on sales
of Jetrea, which may reach 335 million euros a year outside the
U.S., according to Peter Welford, an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. in  London . Novartis may pay a gross royalty
of about 30 percent, he said.  ThromboGenics won approval in October for Jetrea in the
U.S., where it started the selling the drug this week. Annual
sales there may be as much as $500 million, Welford said.  ThromboGenics, which has a market value of 1.6 billion
euros, was suspended from trading in Brussels pending the
announcement. The stock has gained 145 percent in the past 12
months, making it the  third-best performer  on the Stoxx Europe
600 Index. Novartis fell 0.4 percent to 61.45 Swiss francs at
12:25 p.m. in Zurich.  Jetrea targets the vitreous, a jellylike substance between
the eye’s lens and retina. With age, the vitreous liquefies and
separates from the retina. In vitreomacular adhesion, the
separation is not complete, creating a pulling force on the
retina that can lead to loss of vision. Jetrea, which is
injected into the eye, is designed to complete the separation,
restoring vision.  Side Effects  In two trials of Jetrea involving 652 patients in  Europe 
and the U.S., a single injection of Jetrea resolved
vitreomacular adhesion and the visual symptoms associated with
it in 30 percent of patients, compared with 7.7 percent of those
receiving a placebo, ThromboGenics said in August 2011.  In a July 2012 report, staff from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration found side effects including eye pain, perceived
flashes of light, blurred vision and impaired vision happened
two to four times more often in patients receiving Jetrea than
those getting a placebo in a trial. Still, the FDA’s advisers
voted 6-3 that additional studies aren’t needed to evaluate the
safety of Jetrea’s effect on the retina before the drug is
approved.  While panel members raised concern that the medicine may
not benefit a high proportion of patients, they said it was
better than the alternative of surgery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  