-- ThromboGenics Bid Seen on Eye Drug Treatment: Real M&A
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-01-18T17:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/thrombogenics-bid-seen-on-eye-drug-treatment-real-m-a.html
ThromboGenics NV (THR) , the Belgian
drugmaker that has already more than doubled in a year, is
poised to reap even more for investors with suitors drawn to the
sales potential of its exclusive new eye treatment.  ThromboGenics surged more than 140 percent in the last year
for the third-biggest gain in the Stoxx Europe 600  Index (SXXP)  as its
first drug gained U.S. approval and went on sale this week.
Analysts project the eye injection, the first of its kind for a
vision-destroying condition previously treated by surgery, will
drive an almost threefold  revenue  increase in the next three
years, a bigger gain than 91 percent of its biotechnology and
pharmaceutical peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With the drug Jetrea also offering the potential to treat
other eye conditions in conjunction with existing medicines,
ThromboGenics could attract large pharmaceutical companies with
established ophthalmology divisions, said KBC Securities NV.
 Novartis AG (NOVN) , which bought the rights to market Jetrea outside
the U.S. and has signaled an interest in pursuing deals, is
among the most likely acquirers, according to Deutsche Bank AG.
Petercam SA estimates the 1.6 billion euro ($2.2 billion)
company could fetch at least a 32 percent premium in a takeover.  “ThromboGenics has a product that could be of interest for
larger companies,” Jan De Kerpel, an analyst at KBC in
Brussels, said in a telephone interview. Jetrea is “unique in
what it does. It’s in a niche area, which is a dream from a
marketing perspective. It can easily be added to the top line
without too many investments in production or sales teams.”  Jetrea Rollout  When asked about a possible takeover, ThromboGenics Chief
Executive Officer Patrik De Haes said the company was focused on
the U.S. rollout of Jetrea.  “The success of the company and the value of the company
is directly related to a successful launch in the  United
States ,” De Haes said in a phone interview. “All the rest is
background music, we don’t hear it.”  Jetrea won U.S. clearance in October for use in treating
people with vitreomacular adhesion, or VMA, a condition in which
a gel inside the eye that deteriorates with age sticks too
strongly to the retina, harming vision. The treatment, now on
sale in the U.S., separates the gel from the retina, restoring
sight and averting surgery, which had been the only treatment.  Jetrea won the backing of European regulators,
ThromboGenics said in a statement today. If approved by the
European Commission, Novartis will market the drug after buying
the rights to non-U.S. sales of the therapy last March.  Surging Shares  As Jetrea cleared regulatory hurdles, ThromboGenics shares
more than doubled in the past 12 months, touching a record
closing high of 47.17 euros on Jan. 9.  Today, ThromboGenics rose as much as 4.8 percent, before
closing at 43.84 euros, down 3.3 percent from yesterday.  About 500,000 people in the U.S. and the major European
markets may benefit from Jetrea, ThromboGenics has said. The
Heverlee, Belgium-based company is also developing Jetrea for
use in conjunction with other therapies for eye conditions in
which VMA is thought to play a role.  “Ophthalmology is an attractive area to be in at the
moment; it’s really a new area for pharma,” Peter Welford, an
analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. in  London , said in a phone
interview. With Jetrea, “the fact that it is the only drug
currently to treat this disease is clearly a benefit. It’s
highly profitable as a drug because it’s a specialist
indication. Whenever you’re talking about an unmet medical need
where the only treatment is surgery, it’s a pretty attractive
market to be in.”  Sales Potential  Analysts  project  ThromboGenics’s revenue will climb to 221
million euros in 2015 from an estimated 75.2 million euros in
2012, a more than 193 percent jump, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares with a median 24 percent pace among
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide with at
least $1 billion in market value, the data show.  “For any party looking at ThromboGenics as a potential
target, the launch and the revenues associated with that are
very important,” Joep Muijrers, a partner at Life Science
Partners in Amsterdam, said in a phone interview. Life Science
Partners holds ThromboGenics shares.  With Jetrea currently facing no competition and the drug
potentially complementing other therapies, ThromboGenics would
be attractive to a pharmaceutical company with an eye-care
business, such as Novartis,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  or  Regeneron (REGN) 
Pharmaceuticals Inc., said KBC’s De Kerpel, who estimates global
sales for Jetrea could reach 800 million euros a year by 2020.  Complementary Treatment  Novartis, Pfizer and Regeneron all market drugs for wet
age-related macular degeneration, or AMD, a leading cause of
blindness in the elderly. About one-in-three patients don’t
respond to the drugs, possibly because they also have VMA, De
Kerpel said. Gaining Jetrea would add a product that may, by
resolving VMA, improve patients’ response to drugs that treat
AMD, boosting sales.  The marketing deal with Novartis makes it the most likely
acquirer, De Kerpel said.  “Novartis already has an option for the company,” De
Kerpel said in a phone interview. “Anybody else who would want
ThromboGenics leaves the European market and the rest of the
world market on the table.”  Buying ThromboGenics would give Novartis a product that
could help Chief Executive Officer  Joe Jimenez  expand sales at
the Swiss company’s Alcon eye-care division.  Plugging Gaps  Novartis bought Alcon in stages for about $50 billion
starting in 2008, betting eye care held faster growth prospects
than pharmaceuticals. Jetrea could help plug a revenue gap when
two of the division’s products, Travatan and Pataday, lose
patent protection in the next two years, said Tim Race, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank in London.  “They bought it when it was growing very strongly, and
growth hasn’t been quite as strong since,” Race said in a phone
interview. “Jetrea is a ‘nice-to-have.’”  Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for New York-based Pfizer, said
in an e-mail that the $198 billion company doesn’t comment on
speculation. Representatives for Regeneron didn’t respond to e-
mails requesting comment. Tarrytown, New York-based Regeneron
has a market capitalization of $16.3 billion.  Eric Althoff , a spokesman for Basel, Switzerland-based
Novartis, declined to comment on the $179 billion company’s
potential interest in ThromboGenics. CEO Jimenez said earlier
this month at the JPMorgan Chase & Co. health conference in  San
Francisco  that the company was considering “bolt-on”
acquisitions ranging “between $2 billion and $4 billion.”  Expensive Shares  After the run-up in ThromboGenics’s stock, and with sales
of the new drug still unproven, the shares are expensive, said
Samir Devani, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. London.  “At the current valuation, the market is already paying
for future blockbuster sales of the product,” Devani said in an
e-mail. “We’d need to see more concrete sales uptake and
positive data in supplementary indications before getting more
enthusiastic.” Among six analysts who cover the stock tracked
by Bloomberg, he’s the only one to rate it a sell.  At yesterday’s closing price, and taking net cash into
account, ThromboGenics was  valued  at 34.6 times its earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization during the
previous 12 months. Even without building in a takeover premium,
that’s higher than the median Ebitda multiple of about 22 for
biotechnology deals of $1 billion or more, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Speculative Element’  Still, the company has the potential to increase Jetrea’s
peak sales by at least another 500 million euros by expanding
its use to include other treatments, KBC’s De Kerpel said.
ThromboGenics is expecting results in the first half of the year
for a trial of the drug in patients with wet AMD.  Guy Lerminiaux, chief investment officer for equities at
Brussels-based Petercam, which holds ThromboGenics shares among
its 14 billion euros in assets under management, said that even
after the surge in ThromboGenics’s stock, the prospect of a
buyout is what keeps the firm interested in the shares.
Lerminiaux reckons the company could draw bids of at least 60
euros a share in a takeover.  “We are holding because there is indeed that speculative
element,” Lerminiaux said in a phone interview. “That’s the
main reason not to sell or to reduce the position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  