-- Rootworms Are Resistant to Monsanto Corn in Two States
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-01-18T16:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/rootworms-are-resistant-to-monsanto-corn-in-two-states.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency said rootworms in Illinois and Iowa have become resistant
to an insecticide produced by  Monsanto Co. (MON)  corn, and four more
states likely have resistant worms.  The resistance finding is based on a test developed at the
Iowa State University rather than the regulatory definition,
which is “flawed” and should be changed, the EPA said today in
a  report  examining Monsanto’s product. Likely resistance in
South Dakota,  Wisconsin ,  Minnesota  and Nebraska fields need to
be confirmed, the agency said.  Rootworms affect corn’s ability to draw water and nutrients
from the soil and were responsible for about $1 billion a year
in damages and pesticide bills until seeds with built-in
insecticide were developed a decade ago. The resistance finding
comes more than a year after Aaron Gassmann, an  Iowa  State
entomologist, first reported it using a new method.  “Gassmann’s approach of testing for resistance is a better
scientific approach than the regulatory criteria outlined,” EPA
entomologists said in the annual review of Monsanto’s rootworm-
killing corn.  At least 23 counties have damaged fields that need to be
tested for resistance, EPA said.  Corn is St. Louis-based Monsanto’s biggest business line
with  $5.81 billion  in sales, or 43 percent of total revenue, in
its 2012 fiscal year. The EPA’s focus is Monsanto’s YieldGard
corn, which is engineered to produce the Cry3Bb1 protein from
Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt, a natural insecticide.  ‘Not Confirmed’  Kelly J. Clauss, a Monsanto spokeswoman, said the company
is working with growers to reduce the number of fields with
unexpected damage, a sign of suspected resistance.  “Corn rootworm resistance is suspected, but not confirmed,
according to the regulatory definition of resistance,” Clauss
said by phone. “We are very much in line with the EPA in terms
of what needs to be done.”  A separate EPA report today recommended Monsanto work with
the agency to revise the definition of confirmed resistance by
March 31. Monsanto has agreed to transition growers from
Yieldgard to SmartStax corn, which has a second mode of action
for controlling rootworms, the EPA said.  That could cause problems for  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and  DuPont
Co. (DD) , which developed SmartStax. Rootworms are more likely to
develop resistance to SmartStax in fields where Monsanto’s
technology isn’t working, the agency said.  Performance Issues  Monsanto also is working with growers with performance
issues to help them combat suspected resistance through crop
rotation, switching to SmartStax and other means, EPA said.
Problems reported to Monsanto dropped to 45,000 acres last year
from 75,000 in 2011. The drop is probably due to Monsanto’s
success in these efforts as well as drought conditions in the
Midwest, EPA said.  “Monsanto is committed to the stewardship of corn-rootworm
protected traits, and the EPA is confident in the measures we
are taking to promote the durability of corn rootworm
technology,” the company said in an e-mail.  The agency said it plans to convene a scientific advisory
panel this year to evaluate the definition of confirmed
resistance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  