-- Rupee Headed for Best Week Since November on Diesel Price Policy
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-01-18T05:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/rupee-headed-for-best-week-since-november-on-diesel-price-policy.html
India ’s rupee headed for the best
week since November after the government allowed state refiners
to adjust diesel prices, a move that may help rein in energy
subsidies and narrow the  budget deficit .  The currency rose past 54 per dollar today for the first
time since Nov. 2 after Oil Secretary G.C. Chaturvedi said
yesterday oil companies have been permitted to change prices of
the fuel over a period of time. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
has stepped up efforts to improve government finances since mid-
September, when he raised diesel prices for the first time in 14
months, to avert a sovereign ratings downgrade.  “The government’s fuel-policy move is good for fiscal
management and will help boost confidence among overseas
investors,” said Harihar Krishnamoorthy, Mumbai-based treasurer
at the Indian unit of FirstRand Ltd.,  South Africa ’s second-
largest financial services provider. “This will help attract
capital inflows.”  The rupee rose 1.6 percent this week to 53.915 per dollar
as of 10:25 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 53.86 earlier, the strongest level since
Nov. 2. One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, this week to 9.90
percent.  Overseas funds have bought a net $2.2 billion of domestic
shares this month through Jan. 16, exchange data show. Indian
refiners are losing 9.6 rupees (18 cents) on each liter of
diesel they sell, according to oil ministry data.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 54.71 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 55.69
at the end of last week. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  