-- Bolshoi Director Hospitalized With Burns in Acid Attack
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-01-18T21:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/russian-acid-attack-leaves-ballet-director-with-burns-tv-says.html
The artistic director and former
star dancer of the Bolshoi Theater was attacked with acid
outside his home in central Moscow last night, an assault that
police and colleagues said may be linked to his work.  Sergei Filin , who suffered severe burns to his face and
damage to his eyes, is not likely to lose his eyesight
completely after undergoing a surgery in Moscow, Interfax
reported, citing the Bolshoi theater press service.  A masked man attacked Filin at a parking lot near his house
at about 11:40 p.m. on Thursday, state television reported.
Investigators suspect Filin was targeted because of his
professional activities.  “It is clear that this is connected with his work,”
Anatoly Iksanov, the Bolshoi’s general director, said at a
televised briefing. “The main aim is to sow discord within
management.”  Filin has recently been receiving anonymous threats, his e-
mail account was hacked and his car’s tires slashed, Iksanov
said.  Filin was appointed to a five-year term as director of the
ballet company in 2011, according to Bolshoi’s  website . Later
that year, two of its stars, Natalia Osipova and Ivan Vasiliev,
left for a smaller private Mikhailovsky theater in  St.
Petersburg  funded by the Russian fruit magnate Vladimir Kehman.  Filin held a “sweet” position of power and was
responsible for assigning roles, which could have inspired
resentment, said former Bolshoi ballerina Anastasia Volochkova,
dismissed from the theater in 2003 over her weight.  Cruel Ballet  “The cruelty of the ballet world has become
pathological”, Volochkova told the  Ekho Moskvy  radio station.
“It’s a scary, wild fight. It’s a fight for roles.”  The theater, founded in 1776 during the rule of Catherine
the Great, reopened in 2011 after a six-year, $680 million
overhaul that was marred with scandals over misspent funds and
delays.  In 2011, ballet troupe manager Gennady Yanin was forced to
step down after pornographic images resembling him were
published online, Kommersant reported at the time, calling Yanin
a victim of a “smear campaign.”  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history and  weekend
guides  for  New York  and  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  and
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 