-- Russia Responds to U.S. Blacklist With ‘Guantanamo List’
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-01-18T21:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/russia-responds-to-u-s-blacklist-with-guantanamo-list-.html
Dozens of U.S. citizens are now
barred from entering  Russia  under the “Guantanamo list,” a
retaliatory measure for U.S. sanctions on Russian officials
suspected of involvement in the death of an anti-corruption
lawyer, Deputy Foreign Affairs Minister Sergei Ryabkov said.  “We made a decision to get the usual list wider, and
called it ‘The Guantanamo list’ for convenience,” Ryabkov said
today by phone. “It’s a label. Like  Johnnie Walker .”  The  U.S. Congress  last month imposed a visa ban and asset
freeze on Russian officials allegedly linked to the death of
lawyer Sergei Magnitsky and other human-rights abuses. Lawmakers
in Moscow responded by banning U.S. adoptions of Russian
children in a bill that Putin signed into law on Dec. 28.  Magnitsky, an attorney for London-based Hermitage Capital,
alleged that Russian officials had committed a $230 million  tax
fraud . He was arrested in November 2008 and denied medical care
during 11 months in pre-trial detention on fabricated tax-
evasion charges, according to a Russian presidential human-
rights body. He died at age 37 on Nov. 16, 2009.  Some 71 U.S. nationals are now barred from entering Russia,
an increase from 11 previously, Sergei Pushkov, a senior
lawmaker, said in an interview with the Izvestia newspaper
published today.  A former head of the U.S. military detention center at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, was denied entry, Ryabkov said, without
elaborating. U.S citizen accused of kidnapping Russian nationals
and committing crimes against Russian children are on the
blacklist, as well as Guantanamo managers, he said.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  last month criticized
“medieval” conditions at Guantanamo Bay as he backed
retaliation against the U.S. Magnitsky Act. “At Guantanamo,
they keep people in prison for years without any charges,” he
told hundreds of journalists at a news conference in Moscow.
“People there go around in shackles, like in medieval times.”  The dispute has further soured relations between the two
countries. Putin, who’s faced unprecedented protests over the
past year, has criticized U.S. efforts to promote democracy in
his country and oust Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  