-- S&P Cuts Finmeccanica Debt to Junk on Disposal Disappointment
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-18T18:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/s-p-cuts-finmeccanica-debt-to-junk-on-disposal-disappointment.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s debt rating was
cut to junk by Standard & Poor’s on concern the Italian
aerospace and defense company won’t be able to sufficiently
improve capital levels through asset sales.  “We no longer believe Finmeccanica’s credit metrics will
improve markedly in 2013, even if some possible disposals are
forthcoming,” S&P said in a statement today. The Rome-based
company’s rating was cut to BB+ from BBB-, S&P said.  Chief Executive Officer Giuseppe Orsi is targeting 1
billion euros ($1.33 billion) of disposals in areas such as
energy and rail to cut debt of 4.8 billion euros. The company
said Nov. 8 it expected to secure binding offers for the assets,
including a majority stake in its Ansaldo Energia power-plant
construction unit, by the end of last year.  “The previous rating was underpinned by our expectation
that Finmeccanica would be able to improve its credit metrics
through disposal proceeds,” S&P said.  Finmeccanica said in a statement after the downgrade that
it remains “committed to further deliver on its restructuring
program and to timely execute its disposal plan.” The company
last month sold a share of Italian aircraft engine maker Avio as
part of  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s $4.3 billion purchase from
majority owner Cinven Ltd. Proceeds from Avio were
“insufficient to achieve a marked improvement in its financial
risk profile,” S&P said.  Finmeccanica is seeking binding bids for Ansaldo Energia by
Jan. 23 while a final decision will be made at a later board
meeting, Ansa reported Jan. 16. S&P said that the deal could
generate proceeds of 400 million euros to 500 million euros for
Finmeccanica. However, “it would still leave the company’s
financial risk profile in the ‘significant’ category” and not
trigger a ratings upgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  