-- Sabre Seeks to Bring Antitrust Claim Against US Airways
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-01-18T22:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/sabre-seeks-to-bring-antitrust-claim-against-us-airways.html
Sabre Holdings Corp. asked a judge
to let it bring an antitrust claim against  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) 
in a lawsuit filed by the airline over information provided to
travel agents.  US Airways  sued Sabre, the flight data and reservation
business, in 2011 claiming it monopolized the market for such
information. In papers filed today in  Manhattan  federal court,
Sabre denied US Airways’ allegations and asked to add a
counterclaim based on new evidence it says it received during
the litigation.  “US Airways and third parties produced documents that
establish that, during the same time period as the events US
Airways alleges in its amended complaint, US Airways has been in
a long-running and wide-ranging conspiracy to collude with its
airline competitors on the terms on which they will deal with
Sabre,” the company said.  US Airways’ antitrust suit against Sabre followed a
complaint filed by AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  in Texas state
court in 2010. Sabre and American settled that suit in October,
during trial.  US Airways declined to comment on the Sabre filing, said
Andrew Christie, a spokesman for the Tempe, Arizona-based
carrier.  Multiyear Deal  The suit was filed after US Airways signed a multiyear
distribution and marketing agreement with Sabre, which made its
fares and schedules available to the travel agents who used
Sabre’s system, according to Nancy St. Pierre, a spokeswoman for
Southlake, Texas-based Sabre.  “It is very disappointing to learn that US Airways did not
negotiate with us in good faith in 2011, and instead intended
all along to sue us as soon as they signed the agreement,” St.
Pierre said in a statement. “Given its strategy, it appears
that US Airways never had any intention of living up to its
agreement.”  The case is US Airways Inc. v. Sabre Holdings Corp., 11-cv-
02725, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  