-- Rajoy Says Politicians Err as Party Graft Charges Roil Spaniards
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-01-19T14:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/saenz-says-spain-government-outraged-at-party-corruption-reports.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said politicians make mistakes and he won’t be intimidated by
reports an official from his ruling party amassed 22 million
euros ($29 million) in a Swiss bank account while channeling
bribes to colleagues.  “Mistakes may have been made, because there’s no one who
never errs,” Rajoy told party activists at a rally today in
Almeria, southern  Spain . “If at any point I know of
irregularities, my hand will not tremble.”  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria, who faced
an hour-long grilling on the topic at her weekly press
conference, declined to comment on whetherRajoy knew former
People’s Party treasurer Luis Barcenas was making cash payments
to senior officials as reported by El Mundo newspaper.  Rajoy’s party has been rocked by a series of reports in the
past week that risk undermining the government’s credibility as
it enacts the harshest austerity program in history. The hashtag
#CorruPPlandia -- a term combining Corruptland and the ruling PP
-- was trending on Twitter this week as posters organized a
demonstration outside the PP headquarters for last night.  ‘Rajoy Vulnerable’  “This was the week when people’s attitudes to corruption
in PP started to shift,” Ignacio Sanchez Cuenca, a sociology
professor at  Madrid ’s Complutense University, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “You need a critical mass of
cases before people start to act and the PP is crossing that
threshold. Rajoy is vulnerable.”  Police locked down the streets around the PP headquarters
in central Madrid with 28 riot vans preventing protesters
approaching the building because the demonstration wasn’t
authorized. Citizens argued with officers about their
constitutional rights. About 1,000 people attended the
demonstration, the Spanish state broadcaster reported.  A Jan. 13 El Pais survey showed 96 percent of Spaniards
consider politicians to be corrupt, with little difference
between the views of PP voters and supporters of the opposition
Socialist Party. Support for Rajoy’s PP dropped to 30 percent
from 46 percent a year earlier.  Metroscopia polled 1,000 people Jan. 9-10 and the margin of
error was 3.2 percentage points.  Officials Jeered  Saenz and Economy Minister Luis de Guindos were jeered by
journalists on Jan. 17 when they turned up an hour late for a
presentation on a housing program for families that have been
evicted from their homes.  “This could happen to anyone,” Saenz said, her voice
trembling. “Not to you,” shouted back one reporter to laughter
from the gallery.  The allegations against Barcenas surfaced the same week
that former Madrid regional health minister, Juan Jose Guemes,
resigned from the board of a Unilabs SA unit over an alleged
conflict of interest, and the region’s president Ignacio
Gonzalez said he’d paid 770,000 euros to acquire a beachside
penthouse that was the focus of a police investigation.  Rajoy ordered Barcenas to stop monthly cash payments of up
to 15,000 euros using illegal contributions from construction
firms in 2009, El Mundo newspaper reported yesterday. Rajoy
never received illegal payments, it said, citing five people
from successive leadership teams without naming them.  Tax Amnesty  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro was dragged into the row
after Europa Press reported Barcenas took advantage of the
government’s tax amnesty to repatriate 10 million euros last
year. The Budget Ministry published two statements last week
rejecting the claim.  Barcenas’s lawyer, Alfonso Trallero, said in a  television
interview  earlier this week the money was transferred through a
company so the ministry may not have known who the ultimate
beneficiary was. Trallero said his client accrued his fortune
through investments in  Latin America .  “This hasn’t been gained through work related to the PP --
it’s from Mr. Barcenas’s legitimate, legal, completely normal
business interests in  South America  with his partners,”
Trallero said. His assistant said he won’t be making additional
comments, when contacted by Bloomberg.  Saenz, who worked at the party’s Madrid headquarters while
Barcenas was running its finances, said yesterday she neither
saw nor heard about any suspicious cash payments and would have
spoken up if she had.  ‘Spurious Interests’  Madrid President Gonzalez said he agreed to the purchase of
a 5,000 square-foot duplex penthouse in Marbella on the south
coast after his rental agreement with a Delaware-based company
was probed by police.  Guemes resigned from the board of Geneva-based Unilabs’s
Spanish arm after it acquired a majority stake in the company
that runs laboratory tests for a group of Madrid hospitals.
Guemes privatized that service when he ran health care for the
region in 2008, the company said in a  statement  on its website.  “I value much more my freedom to defend ideas without
anyone being able to accuse me of defending spurious
interests,” Guemes said at a televised new conference Jan. 16.
“I worked not only respecting strictly the relevant laws, but
also ethically and, as some put it, aesthetically.”  Unilabs is owned by investors including Apax Partners LLP
and Nordic Capital Svenska AB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  