-- HSBC Signs $249 Million Deal Settling U.S. Foreclosure Flaws
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-18T21:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/hsbc-will-pay-249-million-to-settle-botched-u-s-foreclosures.html
HSBC Holdings Inc. (HBC)  has agreed to a
$249 million accord to settle claims of improper U.S.
foreclosures, joining 12 other mortgage servicers in a deal that
now exceeds $9 billion, according to banking regulators.  U.S. units of Europe’s largest bank signed a deal with the
 Federal Reserve  and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency to pay $96 million in cash to 112,000 U.S. borrowers it
foreclosed on in 2009 and 2010 and provide $153 million in other
mortgage help, according to a statement by the Fed and OCC
today. HSBC was among lenders accused of rushing home
foreclosures by using flawed documents.  Ten of the largest U.S. mortgage servicers, including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America  Corp. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
agreed to an $8.5 billion settlement with the Fed and the OCC on
Jan. 7. This week,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
joined the deal with the Fed, ending their faulty foreclosure
history with a $557 million package of cash and other
assistance.  After a U.S. housing-market collapse started the worst U.S.
financial crisis since the Great Depression, mortgage servicers
were accused of engaging in improper foreclosure practices,
including so-called robo-signing of documents. In almost two
years since regulators ordered the largest U.S. servicers to
hire independent consultants to conduct case-by-case reviews of
foreclosures, none of the borrowers has been compensated.  ‘Benefit Homeowners’  “We are pleased to have reached this agreement, in line
with 12 others in the industry who have arrived at similar
settlements, and believe it is a positive development that will
benefit homeowners,” said  Neil Brazil , an HSBC U.S. spokesman,
in a statement. The bank will record a pretax charge of $96
million in the fourth quarter of 2012 and expects its existing
reserves will absorb the $153 million in other aid “with no
significant incremental financial impact,” Brazil said.  Last month, London-based HSBC agreed to pay $1.9 billion to
close a global money-laundering probe by the U.S. Department of
Justice and banking regulators in the U.S. and U.K. It struck
this foreclosure deal with the OCC and Fed because  HSBC Bank USA 
is regulated by the OCC while the Fed regulates HSBC Finance
Corp., which absorbed Household International Inc. in 2004.
Mortgage servicers handle billing and collections as well as
foreclosures if borrowers default.  Case-by-Case Reviews  The new settlement ends case-by-case foreclosure reviews
and provides for borrowers who went through foreclosures under
HSBC or the other servicers to automatically receive some level
of cash compensation based on banks’ review of the level of harm
each may have suffered. Cash payments will be as high as
$125,000 to borrowers hurt the most, the regulators have said.  Of the $9.3 billion in settlements with the 13 banks, Bank
of America is paying the most at $2.9 billion, followed by  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and JPMorgan, both at $2 billion, according to an
OCC document. Almost 4.2 million borrowers will receive
compensation from the cash pot of $3.6 billion, for an average
payout of $867.  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , IndyMac Bancorp’s successor OneWest
Bank FSB and  EverBank Financial Corp. (EVER)  were among banks in the
2011 foreclosure-review agreement and haven’t yet reached an
accord with regulators.  “Conversations continue with all of the banks that did not
enter the Jan. 7 agreement in principle but are covered by our
April 2011 enforcement action,”  Bryan Hubbard , an OCC
spokesman, said today.  Consulting Fees  Banks have paid more than $1.5 billion in fees to several
third-party consultants, such as Promontory Financial Group LLC,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Ernst & Young LLP, during the
abandoned review process, the regulators have said.  “I can’t help but question the effectiveness of a process
that led to $1.5 billion in fees to a small number of
consultants and only slightly more than twice that in relief to
millions of injured borrowers,” U.S. Representative Carolyn Maloney, a  New York  Democrat, wrote in a letter to the OCC and
Fed chiefs dated yesterday.  Maloney requested data from the regulators as she tried to
understand “how these fees were ultimately generated and how
your supervision of the institutions impacted the progress of
the independent foreclosure review process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 