-- Schlumberger Beats Estimates as Gulf Drilling Increases
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-01-18T21:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/schlumberger-profit-declines-as-onshore-drilling-slows.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield-services provider, reported fourth-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates as drilling in the U.S.
 Gulf of Mexico  increased.  Excluding merger and job cut costs, per-share profit was
$1.08, a penny more than the  average  of 32 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 8.5 percent to $11.2
billion, also beating estimates.  “This quarter should potentially help calm some fears on
how much the onshore weakness should impact Schlumberger,” said
Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis ,
who rates the shares a buy and owns none. “They seem to be able
to increasingly offset that with the Gulf of  Mexico .”  Customers are expected to boost spending on exploration and
production 10 percent outside the U.S. and Canada in 2013 and
more drilling is expected in the Gulf of Mexico, Schlumberger
said. Earnings per share should increase by double digits this
year as global oil demand gains at a rate similar to last year,
Chief Executive Officer Paal Kibsgaard said.  Schlumberger rose 4.3 percent to $76.50 at the close in  New
York . The shares have 34 buy ratings from analysts, five sells
and one hold.  Schlumberger generates about two-thirds of  sales  outside of
 North America , the highest ratio among the largest service
providers, including  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) 
Yesterday, it raised its quarterly dividend 14 percent to 31.25
cents a share.  Contractual Delays  The company said last month that earnings per share would
be 5 to 7 cents lower in the fourth quarter because of
contractual delays in Europe, Africa and the former Soviet Union
countries and weaker-than-expected onshore drilling in the U.S.
and western Canada.  Quarterly net income dropped 3.5 percent to $1.36 billion,
or $1.02 a share, from $1.41 billion, or $1.05, a year earlier,
the Houston- and Paris-based company said in a statement today  The average number of active  rigs  around the world dropped
6.5 percent to 3,436 during the fourth quarter from 3,676 a year
earlier, according to Baker Hughes. Brent oil prices, an
international benchmark, rose 1 percent to average $110.13 in
the quarter.  The hostage situation at an Algerian natural gas facility
operated by  BP Plc (BP/)  has prompted Schlumberger to take another
look at security measures for its workers in North Africa,
Kibsgaard told analysts and investors on a conference call
today.  “It’s too early to say exactly what the impact of this is
going to be,” he said. “In these regions with higher risk, we
already have very stringent security measures in place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  