-- Schwarzenegger’s Back; Wahlberg, P.I.; Bad ‘Mama’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-01-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/schwarzenegger-s-back-wahlberg-p-i-bad-mama-movies.html
Movies can always get an easy laugh
by having a granny utter a swear word. “ The Last Stand ” gets
the same laugh by having her take out a marauding killer with
her shotgun.  Designed to numb audiences, this Arnold Schwarzenegger
vehicle will make them remember instead, since it is opening
during a furious debate about gun violence.  Gun nuts should love the scene in which Schwarzenegger,
playing a small-town sheriff, and his deputies visit the arsenal
of a gun fetishist (Johnny Knoxville) to arm themselves for the
coming battle with a drug cartel head and his private army.  They run their hands caressingly over the metal. And then
the movie shows what these weapons can do: Its principal effect,
repeated dozens of times, is thick splattering blood.  The film marks the American debut of the Korean director
Kim Jee-woon. Its mixture of small-town comedy, sentiment,
solemn machismo, Schwarzenegger’s wooden delivery and ecstatic
gunplay ought to be entertainingly inept.  But will audiences roar when a school bus drives into the
gunfire? No, it’s not carting children. The film isn’t depraved;
it has the innocence of stupidity. But it looks guilty.  “The Last Stand,” from Lionsgate, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: *1/2 (Seligman)  Ghost Story  Spanish director Andy Muschietti’s feature film debut,
produced by Guillermo del Toro (“ Pan’s Labyrinth ”), is a ghost
story with too much ghost.  Expanded from Muschietti’s attention-grabbing short film,
“ Mama ” opens with a gruesome scenario: A distraught father of
two adorable tots has just murdered their mother.  Racing down a snowy mountain road with the girls,
distracted dad drives the car over a cliff. All three survive,
and make their way to a creepy abandoned cabin in the woods.  “Daddy, there’s a woman outside,” says the elder girl.
“She’s not touching the floor.”  End of prologue -- and of dad. Mama, a wraithlike spirit
with a protective streak, has arrived.  The action picks up five years later, when the two feral
girls (Megan Charpentier and Isabelle Nelisse) are discovered
skittering around the old cabin like water spiders.  The kids are placed in the care of their artist uncle Lucas
(Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, “ Game of Thrones ”) and his rocker
girlfriend Annabel (“ Zero Dark Thirty ’s” Jessica Chastain,
with a Joan Jett look).  But where the girls go, Mama -- and death -- follow.  Spooky Dame  The creaky backstory -- there was this old insane asylum,
see, and a long-dead young mother who wants to find her dead
baby, see -- is freshened up with some modern digital
flourishes, a la “ The Ring .”  The digitally created Mama is spooky in smaller, sudden
doses, a spindly, broken-boned corpse-like thing with fingers
like tree roots.  The creature becomes a full-fledged character in an
extended finale, but this Mama is better at a distance.  Still, several set pieces -- starting with that beautifully
filmed snowy accident -- suggest Muschietti’s promise.  The best, by far, is a lovely, eerie scene, shot (the
cinematographer is Antonio Riestra) in wide angle, showing the
younger girl in a playful bed sheet tug-of-war with an off-
screen playmate we assume to be her older sister.  We assume wrong.  “Mama,” from  Universal Pictures , is playing across the
U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  Wahlberg, Crowe  The  New York  of “ Broken City ” is in fact running
smoothly, at least for the rapacious developers who have spent
$4 billion on a Stuyvesant Town-like project they plan to clear
of tenants, tear down and replace with skyscrapers.  They’re partners with the mayor, a smiling reptile played
without irony (or apparent pleasure) by  Russell Crowe .  The melodrama follows the template of “ Chinatown ”: A
private eye ( Mark Wahlberg ) thinks the mayor has hired him to
trap his adulterous wife ( Catherine Zeta-Jones , who knows how to
look at a man with hatred in her eyes). Then the investigator
discovers he’s on to something bigger.  There are revelations but no surprises. The one twist is a
gay/metrosexual angle that makes Wahlberg, playing an I’d-
rather-be-home-watching-the-Knicks macho guy, the butt of an
occasional joke. But he never seems like a bigot, and he has the
star power to carry a much less handsomely shot vehicle.  The director, Allen Hughes, keeps the camera practically
breathing down Wahlberg’s neck as he sneaks through the night
snapping photos, rifling through garbage and getting shot at and
slammed for reasons that aren’t always clear.  “Broken City,” from 20th Century Fox, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com  and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 