-- SEC Chairman, File ‘Purge,’ U.K. Pensions: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-18T13:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/sec-chairman-sec-purge-u-k-pensions-compliance.html
Mary Jo White, the former U.S.
attorney in  Manhattan , is under consideration to become the next
chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, three people
with knowledge of the matter said.  White, now a partner at law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP
in New York, would succeed Elisse Walter, who took over as SEC
chairman last month, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the matter isn’t public.  The choice of White, who was known as a no-nonsense
prosecutor, would be a departure for the agency which has tended
to be run by lawyers steeped in financial policymaking and the
securities industry. Her relative inexperience in those areas,
along with her work defending corporate clients in her years in
private practice, is likely to draw fire from some lawmakers and
advocates for investors.  As U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York from
1993 to 2002, White became a leading terrorism prosecutor. White
has also served on the board of the Nasdaq Stock Market.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment on her
possible nomination. White didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  In recent years, the SEC has been faulted by lawmakers,
judges and investors for failing to bring more cases related to
the financial market turmoil of 2008. White said last year that
prosecutors shouldn’t allow public anger to influence
investigations.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Dual-Track Foreclosures Limited Under U.S. Consumer Bureau Rules  Mortgage servicers will face greater limits on their
ability to foreclose on a borrower while simultaneously
negotiating a loan modification under new rules issued by the
U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The rules, some of which are required under the 2010 Dodd-
Frank law that created the agency, go further than the bureau’s
initial proposal in limiting the practice, known as dual-
tracking. They will apply to major banks including  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp.  as well as non-bank servicers
including  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)   The CFPB’s rule against simultaneous foreclosures and
modifications is a turnaround from the bureau’s initial
proposal, issued Aug. 10, which didn’t directly address dual-
tracking, according to a senior CFPB official who briefed
reporters in advance of the release and asked not to be named.  Americans for Financial Reform, an umbrella group of
consumer groups, civil rights organizations and labor unions,
asked the agency to scrap the proposal, in part over the dual-
tracking issue.  Finra Clarifies Rules for Submitting Structured Note Materials  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority clarified a new
communications rule for broker-dealers selling structured notes.  Under its rule 2210, published in June and set to go into
effect on Feb. 4, brokers have 30 calendar days to send Finra
copies of any written correspondence that goes out to 25 or more
individual investors. Copies don’t also need to be sent to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the self-regulatory
trade group said on Jan. 7 on its website.  Small Bankers Back Call to Restructure ‘Too-Big-To-Fail’ Banks  The  Independent Community Bankers of America  “strongly
supports” the call by  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas  President
Richard Fisher for restructuring too-big-to-fail banks, the
group said in an e-mailed statement.  “Policymakers need to act now to address the too-big-to-
fail problem because we can’t afford to continue this government
backstop for systemically dangerous institutions,” Fisher said
in the statement.  Fisher, who spoke in  Washington  Jan. 16, said too-big-to-
fail financial firms should be “restructured into multiple
business entities.”  HKMA to Consult Banks on Revised Basel Liquidity Coverage Ratio  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority plans to resume
consultation following changes on the liquidity coverage ratio
requirement announced by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, the authority said in a letter to the city’s banks
published on its website yesterday.  The Authority aims to reach conclusion on major policy
issues within the year in order to get ready for implementation
of policies on Jan. 1, 2015.  Office of Fair Trading to Study Fees in U.K. Workplace Pensions  The U.K. Office of Fair Trading will study competition
among providers of workplace pensions, including the question of
whether there’s enough pressure among them to keep charges low
and whether savers receive enough information. The regulator
will also look at the barriers to switching between pension
plans. The OFT is to work with the Pensions Regulator and
Financial Services Authority and will seek input from pension
providers, employers, and employees in its inquiry.  About four million Britons save in defined-contribution
plans. That number will rise with auto-enrollment plans that
require employees to opt out rather than opt in, according to
the regulator.  FSA in Negotiations With BBA on PPI Time Limits  The Financial Services Authority said it has been
approached by the British Bankers’ Association to discuss the
potential for introducing a time limit for Payment Protection
Insurance complaints.  The U.K. financial regulator said in an e-mailed statement
it has entered discussions on the issue and the key
consideration is how to get compensation to consumers more
quickly.  Courts  SEC Purge of Madoff, Goldman Probe Files Upheld by Judge  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission doesn’t have to
restore purged files on  Bernard Madoff  and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. that were sought by a government watchdog group, a federal
judge ruled.  Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington sued
the agency, alleging it violated federal records law by refusing
to recover investigative files that had been destroyed. U.S.
District Judge James Boasberg in Washington ruled yesterday that
the government was only required to seek recovery of records
that were physically removed from the agency’s custody rather
than those that were done away with.  The lawsuit sought records of so-called Matters Under
Investigation, which under a policy dating back to 1998 weren’t
stored as official files of the SEC, according to a Sept. 14,
2011, letter to Congress from then-SEC enforcement director
 Robert Khuzami .  CREW, as the group is known, sued for materials related to
the SEC’s initial probes of Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, Goldman
Sachs’s trades of American International Group Inc. credit-
default swaps in 2009, and other topics related to the financial
world.  The case is Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
Washington v. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 11-
cv-01732, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  For more, click here.  Ex-BAE Lobbyist Cleared of Money Laundering Charges in Austria  A former  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  lobbyist was cleared by a Vienna
court on money laundering charges tied to allegations he bribed
officials in eastern and central  Europe  for weapons contracts.  Prosecutors didn’t present enough facts to convict Alfons
Mensdorff-Pouilly of money laundering, criminal-court
spokeswoman Christina Salzborn said yesterday by telephone.  Mensdorff-Pouilly was found guilty on a lesser charge of
evidence tampering, which carries a conditional two-month
sentence that may be voided on appeal, Salzborn said.  U.K. prosecutors dropped similar charges against Mensdorff-
Pouilly in 2010 in a joint U.K. and U.S. settlement ending a
six-year-old bribery and fraud investigation against the
company.  Harald Schuster, a lawyer for Mensdorff-Pouilly, wasn’t
immediately available at his office for a call for comment.  Barclays Is Sued in Germany Over Kiener’s K1 Fund Ponzi-Scheme  Barclays (BARC)  Plc was sued in  Germany  by investors who lost
money in the 345-million euro ($460 million) Ponzi-scheme fraud
by Helmut Kiener’s K1 hedge fund.  About 150 suits over so-called X1 and K1 certificates were
filed at courts in Frankfurt and Munich, Klaus Nieding, a lawyer
for the plaintiffs, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
When issuing certificates on the underlying Kiener indexes,
Barclays failed to properly review the K1 products, said Andreas
Tilp, another lawyer working on the cases.  K1 Group founder Helmut Kiener was convicted in 2011 of
defrauding investors and sentenced to 10 years and eight months
in prison after confessing to using new investors’ money to make
up for losses in the wake of the financial crisis. Barclays and
 BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA lost a combined 223 million euros and private
investors lost about 122 million euros, German prosecutors said
at the time.  Germany’s Manager Magazin reported the suits earlier in the
day yesterday.  Jon Laycock, a spokesman for London-based Barclays said the
claims in the lawsuits are “wholly without merit.”  “The German courts have found in Barclays’ favor in all
decisions to date with a recognition that Barclays is also a
victim of the Kiener fraud,” Laycock said in an e-mailed
statement.  K1’s funds are being liquidated in the British Virgin
Islands. Kiener’s personal assets were placed in insolvency
proceedings in Germany. X1 Fund Allocation GmbH, a Hamburg-based
K1 company, was put under administration in 2009. Barclays
issued notes in 2005 and 2007 with X1 Fund Allocation as the
investment manager.  The Frankfurt court was asked to bundle the suits under a
procedure that allows handling them as a single case.  Goldman Sachs Says It Was Scapegoated in Dragon Founders’ Suit  A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  lawyer argued to jurors that the
founders of speech-recognition pioneer Dragon Systems Inc. are
scapegoating the investment bank for their own mistakes in a
$580 million all-stock sale rendered worthless when the buyer
was exposed as a fraud.  In closing arguments yesterday in Boston federal court in a
lawsuit accusing Goldman Sachs of negligence, the attorney, John
Donovan Jr., said Dragon co-founder Janet Baker and Chief
Financial Officer Ellen Chamberlain ignored the bank’s advice to
hire accountants to further vet Belgium-based suitor Lernout &
Hauspie Speech Products NV and rushed the deal amid Dragon’s
cash-flow problems in 2000.  Donovan blamed Baker, also Dragon’s former chief executive
officer, for negotiating a change from a half-cash/half-stock
deal to an all-stock deal without consulting the banking team.  Lawyers for Dragon argued New York-based Goldman Sachs
committed gross negligence, committed misrepresentation through
key omissions and should have stopped the deal because of
unanswered questions about Lernout & Hauspie’s revenue.  Alan Cotler, a lawyer for Janet Baker and her husband, Jim,
told the jury the blame lay with Goldman, which considered the
deal to be “small potatoes.” The Goldman team, which included
a 22-year-old banker and a 25-year-old, was inexperienced,
unsupervised and unfocused on a small client such as Dragon,
Cotler said.  Dragon paid Goldman Sachs $5 million.  Goldman Sachs intentionally misrepresented that the bank
had an analyst monitoring Lernout & Hauspie’s earnings when it
had stopped covering the company at the end of 1999, Cotler
said. L&H posted a suspicious 1,500 percent increase in Asian
revenue in February 2000.  He said Janet Baker, who with her husband developed the
technology that started the company in their suburban Boston
home in 1982, and Chamberlain became frustrated with the Goldman
Sachs team for not doing due diligence in the deal.  Dragon has already collected $70 million in settlements
with other companies involved in the deal. If the jury finds
Goldman negligent and awards damages, $70 million will be
deducted from the total.  The case is Baker v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 09-cv-10053, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Panels  Duffy, Meyer, O’Brien, Standish on Financial Regulation  Terrence Duffy , president and executive chairman of  CME
Group Inc. (CME) , Laurence Meyer, co-founder and senior managing
director at Macroeconomic Advisers LLC and a former Federal
Reserve Board governor, William O’Brien, chief executive officer
of Direct Edge Holdings LLC, and Mark Standish, co-chief
executive officer of RBC Capital Markets, participated in a
panel discussion about U.S. financial industry regulation.  Bloomberg’s Robert Friedman moderated the panel at the
Bloomberg Link Global Markets Summit in New York.  For the panel video, click here.  Separately, Duffy sat down with  Stephanie Ruhle  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money,”  and talked about the
impact of U.S. debt-ceiling negotiations on financial markets
and the outlook for implementation of the Dodd-Frank bank
regulations.  For the Duffy video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Juncker Says Decision on Eurogroup Chief to Be Made Jan. 21  Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said the
Eurogroup will choose a new president when it meets in Brussels
on Jan. 21.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem presented his
candidacy during a meeting in Luxembourg today, Juncker told
reporters.  Juncker said last month that he has “reasons to believe”
the Dutchman could be his successor at the eurogroup. Juncker,
58, has led meetings of the euro finance ministers since 2005
and is stepping down from the post.  U.K. FSA’s Successor Must Be Radically Different, Panel Says  The successor to the Financial Services Authority needs to
take a “radically different” path to make sure consumers
receive stronger protection and major financial failings are
discovered earlier, a U.K. Parliamentary committee said.  The FSA “failed consumers badly” and the new agency must
take a different approach “to the widely discredited box-
ticking practices undertaken by the FSA,” Andrew Tyrie, the
chairman of the committee, said in an e-mailed statement.  The Financial Conduct Authority will take over as soon as
April from the FSA, which is being abolished as part of a
supervisory overhaul in the wake of the financial crisis that
saw the nationalization of Northern Rock Plc and bank bailouts.
The FCA will take on oversight of consumer protection, while the
Prudential Regulation Authority, which will become a unit of the
Bank of  England , will keep watch on systemic financial issues.  John Griffith-Jones, the former U.K. head of accounting
firm KPMG LLP, will be the incoming chairman of the FCA.  Both Griffith-Jones and the Treasury must take more
aggressive oversight of the regulator to ensure that the board
challenges the executive leadership of the FCA, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 