-- SEC Chairman Walter Says Cross-Border Swaps Rules Top Agenda
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-01-18T19:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/sec-chairman-walter-says-cross-border-swaps-rules-top-agenda.html
Completing Dodd-Frank rules,
including those governing cross-border swaps, tops the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s agenda this year, SEC
Chairman Elisse Walter said today.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank overhaul of financial regulation
required the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to
draft rules to increase transparency in the swaps market. The
SEC’s rules would address the overseas reach of regulations
governing security-based swaps. The agencies missed a July 2011
deadline to complete most of their Dodd-Frank regulations.  Walter said finishing Dodd-Frank rules would lead her
agenda as the commission, divided between two Democrats and two
Republicans, tries to move forward under her leadership.  “That is what is first on the agenda and really stands as
the most important thing we have to do as a prelude to adopting
anything else,” Walter told the SEC’s Investor Advisory
Committee today in  Washington . “We will put that out for robust
public comment.”  Walter described the swap rules as “the critical
linchpin” of Dodd-Frank because of the “global nature of the
market.”  Until Dodd-Frank was enacted in 2010, swaps were largely
unregulated, often uncleared and traded directly between banks
and other consumers of derivatives. Dodd-Frank requires traders
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to
have most swaps cleared and traded on exchanges or swap-
execution facilities.  No Timetable  Walter declined to say when the commission would propose
the rules. She also said she would prioritize rules required by
the so-called JOBS Act, which sought to ease access to capital
for startup firms and small businesses.  The SEC in August proposed a rule mandated by the 2012
measure to lift a ban on mass marketing by  hedge funds  and other
private offerings. Some consumer groups want Walter to add
investor protections to a final rule, including a means to
verify that that investors are sophisticated enough to
participate in private offerings.  The SEC’s two Republican commissioners have said the ban
should be lifted without imposing new restraints. Democratic
Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar voted against the August proposal
over concerns that it opened up vulnerabilities for investors.  “Chairman Walter is on the hot seat,” said  Barbara Roper ,
director of investor protection for the  Consumer Federation of
America . “She’s going to make someone really angry no matter
what she does.”  Walter said the commission would lift the ban and was still
considering the details of a final rule.  “Once a statute is passed, we will carry it out,” she
said. “It is not our job to undo congressional
determinations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  