-- Seer Said to Boost CMBS on View Debt to Beat Residential Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-01-18T19:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/seer-said-to-boost-cmbs-on-view-debt-to-beat-residential-bonds.html
Seer Capital Management LP increased
its bets on commercial mortgage-backed securities, saying the
debt has more room to gain than residential notes, according to
a letter sent to investors.  Seer boosted its holdings of commercial-mortgage bonds to
23.8 percent as of Dec. 31, from less than 15 percent, the New
York-based hedge fund wrote yesterday in the letter. The firm is
headed by Chief Executive Officer Philip Weingord, the former
head of global markets in the Americas for Deutsche Bank AG.  “We believe that CMBS will start to lead the securitized
product market going into 2013,” the company said.  Seer, which oversees $1.5 billion in assets, gained 25.9
percent in 2012 following a 2.1 percent rise in 2011, according
to the letter.  Hedge funds  focused on mortgage debt, led by
Metacapital Management LP and Pine River Capital Management LP,
topped all categories in 2012,  rising  20.4 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Residential securities represented the largest part of
Seer’s portfolio, at 32 percent, according to the letter.
Collateralized loan obligations accounted for 25.5 percent of
its investments, while the firm has 15.8 percent of its
portfolio in cash, a “significant” amount, as it anticipates
market turbulence over the  U.S. budget deficit .  Scott Tagliarino, a spokesman for Seer at ASC Advisors LLC,
declined to elaborate on the letter.  ‘Significant Upside’  Home-loan bonds without government backing returned an
average of about 21 percent last year, according to Amherst
Securities Group LP, with some subprime-tied notes rising more
than 40 percent. That compares with gains of 10 percent to 12
percent in commercial debt, suggesting “CMBS still has
significant upside,” Seer said.  Riskier CMBS have outperformed this year. The so-called AJ
portion, or most junior of originally AAA rated classes, of a
2007 CMBS deal considered a market benchmark rose yesterday to
58.6 cents on the dollar, from 54.5 cents on Dec. 31, Bloomberg
values show. Typical prices for senior-ranked securities tied to
so-called option adjustable-rate home mortgages climbed to 68
cents last week, from 65 cents, according to Barclays Plc data.  Gains in riskier mortgage securities may be approaching an
end, according to Bank of America Corp. analysts led by  Chris Flanagan  in  New York .  “We are growing increasingly concerned that the euphoria
will turn to disappointment at some point in the near future, as
the inevitable profit-taking leads to a price correction,” they
wrote in a Jan. 11 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  