-- Sept. 11 Conspiracy Charge Won’t Be Dropped by Military
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-01-18T21:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/sept-11-conspiracy-charge-won-t-be-dropped-by-military.html
The head of the U.S. military
tribunal system rejected a government request that he drop a
conspiracy charge in the case of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four
other accused plotters of the Sept. 11 attacks.  The chief prosecutor in the biggest U.S. terrorism case,
Army Brigadier General Mark Martins, had recommended dropping
the conspiracy charge because of “substantial uncertainty”
about its legal validity, the Defense Department said today in a
statement.  Retired Vice Admiral Bruce McDonald, who has the title of
convening authority for military tribunals, decided that
withdrawing the conspiracy charge would be premature because the
issue of its validity “is still pending appellate review,”
according to the statement.  Uncertainty was created in October, when the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Washington threw out the 2008 conviction of Osama bin Laden’s former driver after finding he was wrongly tried under a
law that didn’t exist at the time of the alleged crime.  Salim Hamdan, who was captured in  Afghanistan  in November
2001 and sent to the U.S. military facility at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, two months later, was the first terrorism suspect found
guilty at a U.S. military war-crimes trial since the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks.  The appeals court said the Military Commission Act of 2006
didn’t cover retroactive prosecution of acts that weren’t
prohibited as war crimes.  Murder, Hijacking  Based on that ruling, Martins questioned whether the
conspiracy charge in the Sept. 11 case would stand up in court,
the Defense Department said.  Mohammed and his co-defendants also face charges of
attacking civilians, attacking civilian objects, murder in
violation of the law of war, destruction of property in
violation of the law of war, hijacking aircraft, intentionally
causing serious bodily injury, and terrorism, according to the
statement.  James Connell, an attorney for Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, a nephew
of Mohammed who allegedly helped finance the Sept. 11 hijackers,
said the decision shows the military tribunal system is
“fundamentally unfair.”  “The convening authority’s decision to require a charge to
go forward when the chief prosecutor says that it is not legally
viable demonstrates that the convening authority is in no way a
neutral body,” Connell said in an e-mailed statement.  Lieutenant Colonel Todd Breasseale, a Pentagon spokesman
who handles tribunal matters, said in a statement that the
different positions of the convening authority and the chief
prosecutor show “an example of the legal rigor and encouraged
debate within the system itself.”  While a trial is probably years away, hearings are
scheduled to resume on Jan. 28 in Guantanamo Bay. Among the
issues before the court is whether the government must preserve
evidence from so-called black sites where the defendants were
allegedly tortured.  The case is U.S. v. Mohammed, Military Commission Trial
Judiciary (Guantanamo Bay, Cuba).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  