-- Sharp Nearly Halts Production of IPad Screens, Reuters Reports
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   G e a r o i d   R e i d y
-- 2013-01-18T10:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/sharp-nearly-halts-production-of-ipad-screens-reuters-reports.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  slowed a Japanese
 production line  making screens for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads to a minimum
level as the U.S. company manages inventory, according to a
Reuters report.  The slowdown at Sharp’s Kameyama plant in central  Japan 
started at the end of last year, and output of the 9.7-inch
screens is now at the lowest rate needed to keep the line
running, Reuters reported, citing two people it didn’t identify
who have knowledge of Sharp’s production plans.  Heihachiro Ochiai, a spokesman for Sharp, declined to
comment. The Osaka-based company also makes panels for Apple’s
iPhone 5. Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple,
didn’t immediately respond to calls to her office and mobile
phones. She didn’t immediately reply to e-mail and text message
to her mobile phone.  Reuters reported that it was unclear how much of the
slowdown was due to seasonal changes in demand or consumers
choosing the smaller iPad mini introduced last year. The Nikkei
newswire reported Jan. 14 that orders for iPhone 5 parts had
been cut by about half following lower-than-expected sales,
underscoring concerns about the smartphone market and sending
 Apple shares  to an 11-month low.  Sharp also is cutting production of iPhone panels to about
40 percent of capacity from close to 100 percent in the previous
three months, the Nikkei reported. Sharp gets 3.4 percent of
sales from Apple, its biggest customer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said last year there was “material doubt”
about its ability to survive because of tumbling TV sales.  Sharp is projecting an operating profit of about 13.8
billion yen for the fiscal second half ending March 31, the
company said Jan. 7. It had an operating loss of 168.9 billion
yen in the six months ended Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gearoid Reidy at 
 greidy1@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  