-- TSMC Record Spending Plan Lifts Nova Measuring: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2013-01-18T00:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/tsmc-record-spending-plan-lifts-nova-measuring-israel-overnight.html
Nova Measuring Instruments Ltd. (NVMI) 
climbed to the highest level since July on prospects the Israeli
technology company will benefit from  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. (2330) ’s forecast of record  capital spending  in 2013.  Shares of the Israeli developer of measuring systems for
the semiconductor industry gained 1.8 percent in New York to
$8.42, a five-month high, after TSMC, as the semiconductor
company is known, said it plans to boost spending to $9 billion
this year from about $8.3 billion in 2012. The  Bloomberg Israel-
US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest New-York traded Israeli companies
rose 0.4 percent to 86.75.  Orbotech Ltd. (ORBK)  gained after receiving
$40 million in orders from a flat-panel display maker.  Nova Chief Executive Officer Gabi Seligsohn said in an
interview yesterday that Nova is poised for a “strong” first
half of 2013 after TSMC announced it will increase spending to
meet mounting global demand for smartphones and tablets. Revenue
for the Nes Ziona, Israel-based company will climb 2.6 percent
this year to $97 million, according to the mean of two analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Nova is one of the best companies in the equipment space
that’s exposed to Taiwan Semi,” Patrick Ho, an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. said by phone from  Dallas  yesterday. “If
TSMC is going to continue to build out equipment for the leading
edge, Nova is in a position to benefit this year.”  ‘Apple’s Ramp-Up’  TSMC, the world’s largest contract chipmaker,  forecast 
first-quarter sales that surpassed analysts’ estimates. Chief
Executive Officer  Morris Chang  said the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based
company will allocate 88 percent of capital spending on units
measuring 28 nanometers or less.  “If during the second half of 2013, the extent of Apple’s
ramp-up at Taiwan Semiconductor will be high, then we have a
chance to have a very, very strong 2013, and a nice increase in
revenue,” Seligsohn said.  The company will  probably  report revenue of 94.5 million
for 2012, an 8.1 percent decline from the previous year.  “The question for us is whether the industry continues
spending into the second half,” Seligsohn said.  Nova Measuring is targeting  acquisitions  as the company
seeks to expand process control products to boost revenue,
Seligsohn said in a Dec. 27 interview, a day after announcing it
received $15 million of orders for its tools from chipmakers.  Orbotech Rallies  Nova Measuring shares traded in  Tel Aviv  jumped 6.7 percent
to 31.26 shekels, or the equivalent of $8.40, as Israel’s
benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  slipped 0.1 percent to 1,207.67.  Orbotech gained for a fifth day in New York, adding 2.5
percent to $9.31, the highest since June 27, after receiving
orders from a liquid crystal display panel manufacturer in
China. The Yavne, Israel-based company said most of the
equipment will be delivered in 2013.  Slowing demand for flat panel display equipment, which
began in late 2011 “has bottomed, and things can’t get that
much worse,” Olga Levinzon, an analyst at Barclays Plc, who has
an equalweight, or neutral rating on the shares, said by phone
yesterday from New York.  RRSat Global Communications Network Ltd. (RRST) , the Israeli
satellite video provider, extended its gain for the week to 17
percent as shares added 0.4 percent to $7.73 on trading volume
that was five times the stock’s three-month daily average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  