-- SNB Should Lock in Weaker Franc to Boost Jobs, Labor Union Says
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2013-01-18T13:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/snb-should-lock-in-weaker-franc-to-boost-jobs-labor-union-says.html
Switzerland ’s central bank should
lock in the franc’s decline against the euro by adjusting its
exchange-rate cap to ease pressure on employment, labor union
Unia said.  “In recent days the Swiss franc has somewhat weakened
against the euro and today reached a rate of 1.25 francs”
versus the single currency, Unia said in a  statement  today. The
 Swiss National Bank  should “immediately set this rate as the
new lower limit and to defend it at all costs,” the union said.  The franc depreciated to 1.2569 per euro today, the weakest
level since May 2011, before strengthening 0.3 percent to 1.2437
per euro at 1:51 p.m. London time. The SNB introduced its
currency cap of 1.20 francs per euro in September 2011 to help
exporters and fend off the threat of deflation.  “There’s been a lot of talk about euro-Swiss this morning
because it went through 1.25,” said Christian Lawrence, a
London-based currency strategist at Rabobank International.
“That’s going to remain in focus. A lot of people are talking
about the possibility of the Swiss using this opportunity to
raise the floor to 1.25. It’s just talk at the moment.”  Unia said the SNB should set a goal of weakening the franc
to 1.40 per euro to protect jobs.  “Hundreds of businesses still are suffering because of the
overvalued franc, especially in tourism and in the export
industry,” it said. “If the situation isn’t rapidly fixed now,
there is the danger of another wave of job cuts.”  Weekly Drop  Silvia Oppliger, a spokeswoman for the SNB in Zurich,
declined to comment on the currency cap when reached by phone
today.  The franc is set for its biggest weekly decline since Sept.
9, 2011, when the SNB imposed the cap to block the currency’s
appreciation, as easing financial-market tension in the euro
area reduces demand for Swiss assets as a haven. It weakened 0.1
percent to 93.37 centimes per dollar today.  “There’s an overall improvement in markets,” said Kasper Kirkegaard, a currency strategist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Copenhagen. “There’s a lot of money parked in Switzerland as an
insurance, and that can have a big effect as it flows out.”  The decline of the franc also will benefit earnings of
Swiss companies that have substantial euro-area sales, Jon Cox,
an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich, wrote in a
research report. Nestle AG, the world’s largest food company,
clothes retailer  Charles Voegele Holding AG (VCH)  and chocolate maker
 Lindt & Spruengli AG (LISN)  stand to benefit, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  