-- Southampton Fires Adkins, Names Pochettino as Replacement Coach
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-18T13:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/southampton-fires-adkins-names-pochettino-as-replacement-coach.html
Southampton fired manager Nigel
Adkins and named Mauricio Pochettino as his replacement, the
Premier League soccer club said on its  website .  Southampton is 15th in the 20-team league, just three
points above the three relegation spots at the bottom of the
standings. Adkins’s firing comes two days after the Saints
rallied from a two-goal deficit for a 2-2 draw at Chelsea.  Southampton opened the season with one win in 10 games to
sit in last place. The Saints have lost just twice over the past
12 matches to climb up five spots, but it wasn’t enough to save
Adkins’ job.  “This decision has been made with the long-term ambitions
of Southampton Football Club in mind,” executive chairman
Nicola Cortese said. “While we acknowledge the contribution
Nigel has made during the past two years, for the club to
progress and achieve our long-term targets a change was
needed.”  Adkins, 47, was in his third season with Southampton. He
guided the Saints to back-to-back promotions, earning a return
to the Premier League last season with a second-place finish in
the Championship.  Pochettino, 40, left Espanyol “by mutual consent” in
November after four years with the Spanish club. The Argentine
made over 300 appearances in two stints as a player at Espanyol.  “This is the kind of opportunity that any coach would
relish,” Pochettino said. “Southampton is a club with great
heritage and an even more exciting future. There is a clear
vision to take the club to a new era of sustained success in the
Premier League and beyond, which I’m delighted to be part of.”  Pochettino will make his debut in three days when
Southampton hosts Everton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 