-- Stanford Suits Get Court Review in Securities-Fraud Test
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-01-18T21:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/stanford-suits-get-court-review-in-securities-fraud-test.html
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to use
a case involving investors in R. Allen Stanford’s $7 billion
 Ponzi scheme  to consider tightening the limits on securities-
fraud suits.  The justices today said they will review a federal appeals
court ruling that let aggrieved investors sue law firms and
outside companies for their alleged roles in Stanford’s
international fraud.  The case will test a 1998 law enacted to prevent investors
from using state courts to circumvent federal restrictions on
class-action securities claims. Federal law prohibits punitive
damages, requires higher levels of proof than many state laws
and bars “aiding and abetting” suits.  Under the 1998 law, known as the U.S. Securities Litigation
Uniform Standards Act or SLUSA, investors can’t sue under state
law if the case is based on a misrepresentation made “in
connection with the purchase or sale of a covered security.”  The question for the Supreme Court is how close that
connection must be. Lower courts have established a variety of
tests for determining whether the connection exists.  Similar issues have arisen in suits stemming from  Bernard Madoff ’s fraud.  Poison Case  The Stanford case was one of four the court today agreed to
review. The justices will take a second look at the case of a
woman convicted under a federal anti-terrorism law after
spreading caustic substances on the home and car of her
husband’s pregnant lover.  The court  said  in 2011 that the accused woman, Carol Anne
Bond, had the right to argue that the law can’t constitutionally
be applied to a local domestic dispute. A federal appeals court
rejected that argument, saying Congress has wide authority to
enact statutes that implement treaties, in this case a chemical-
weapons agreement.  Bond contends that Congress’s treaty powers don’t let it
infringe on state prerogatives, at least when the intrusion
isn’t necessary to meet the government’s obligations under the
accord.  The Obama administration urged the court not to hear Bond’s
appeal. The government said Congress had other sources of
authority to enact the 1998 statute, including the
constitutional power to regulate interstate commerce.  The case is Bond v.  United States , 12-158.  Employment Retaliation  The high court also agreed to use a case involving a
professor at a Texas medical school to decide how much workers
must prove to win some retaliation claims under the primary
federal job-discrimination law.  The issue involves so-called mixed-motive cases -- when an
employer has multiple reasons for firing or demoting a worker,
including an improper one. The court will decide whether a
worker must show that the improper motive was the driving force
for the firing, and that the employer otherwise wouldn’t have
taken action.  In the case before the court, Naiel Nassar says he was
denied a preferred position with an affiliated hospital because
he complained about suffering discrimination on account of his
Middle Eastern background.  The case is University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
v. Nassar, 12-484.  Deception Alleged  The court didn’t say whether it will hear the new cases
during its current nine-month term or the one that starts in
October.  The defendants in the Stanford case include units of  Willis
Group Holdings Plc (WSH) , a London-based insurance broker. They are
accused of writing letters that gave the investors reason to
believe the certificates of deposit they bought were backed by
safe, liquid investments. The investors sued the units along
with the administrator of a trust Stanford used in his scheme.  Investors are also suing two law firms, Proskauer Rose LLP
and Chadbourne & Parke LLP, for allegedly lying to the
Securities and Exchange Commission and helping Stanford evade
regulatory oversight. The defendants deny wrongdoing.  The CDs, issued by Stanford’s bank and sold by his
securities firm, don’t qualify as “covered” under the federal
SLUSA law. That means the CDs by themselves don’t give the
defendants the right to have the state-law case dismissed.  The law firms and Willis units argue that SLUSA applies
because of Stanford Financial Group Co.’s promises to use
proceeds from the investments to buy securities that are
covered.  Covered Securities  “It is difficult to see how those allegations do not
involve a misrepresentation made directly in connection with
transactions in SLUSA-covered securities,” Chadbourne & Park
said in court papers.  A group of investors led by Samuel Troice argued that
Stanford Financial’s promises “do not transform fraud in the
purchase and sale of the CDs into fraud in connection with the
purchase or sale of a covered security.”  A New Orleans-based federal appeals court said SLUSA didn’t
apply because the alleged misrepresentations were “only
tangentially related” to any covered security. The ruling let
suits filed under Louisiana and Texas state law go forward,
reversing a trial judge who had thrown out the claims.  The  Supreme Court  agreed to hear the case against the
advice of the Obama administration. The government said that,
although the appeals court reached the wrong conclusion, the
case was so “idiosyncratic” it was unlikely to have broader
implications.  Stanford Conviction  A federal jury convicted Stanford in March 2012 on 13
charges brought in connection with his Ponzi scheme, including
four counts of  wire fraud  and five of mail fraud. He was
sentenced in June to 110 years in prison.  Prosecutors said Stanford wasted investors’ money on
failing businesses, yachts and cricket tournaments and secretly
borrowed as much as $2 billion from his bank.  In a Ponzi scheme, money from the newest investors is used
to fund the returns that have been promised to previous
investors.  The Supreme Court cases are Chadbourne & Park v. Troice,
12-79; Willis v. Troice, 12-86; and  Proskauer Rose  v. Troice,
12-88.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  