-- State Street Plans 630 Job Cuts to Boost Earnings
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-18T21:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/state-street-profit-rises-15-as-global-stock-gains-boost-assets.html
State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-
largest custody bank, rose the most in more than a year after
saying it will eliminate 630 jobs in its third round of cuts in
two years to bolster profit.  The job cuts, equal to about 2 percent of the company’s
workforce, brings reductions in the past two years to almost
2,900. Fourth-quarter operating profit rose 15 percent, as
market gains boosted assets and the fees they generate, the
Boston-based company said today.  Chief Executive Officer Joseph Hooley is seeking to offset
the impact of record-low interest rates and subdued trading by
clients. State Street, which has come under pressure from
shareholders including Trian Fund Management LP’s Nelson Peltz
to improve profitability, repurchased 10.9 million shares for
$480 million in the fourth quarter, helping earnings per share
exceed analysts’ estimates.  “I meet with shareholders all the time to try to
understand their view of the business,” Hooley said today in an
interview. “I think we’re making the right move in a
challenging environment,” he said, referring to the job cuts.  State Street rose 5.9 percent to close at $53.36 in New
York, the biggest increase since Nov. 30, 2011. The stock has
gained 34 percent in the past year, compared with a 29 percent
increase by the Standard & Poor’s 20-company index of asset
managers and custody banks.  Net income on an operating basis increased to $521 million,
or $1.11 a share, from $454 million, or 93 cents, a year
earlier. Earnings beat the $1.01-a-share average  estimate  of 22
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. In addition to the share
buybacks last year, the company has set aside $400 million for
repurchases through the end of March.  ‘Big Impact’  “The big impact was from a fairly significant share
repurchase,”  Marty Mosby , a Memphis, Tennessee-based equity
analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in an interview.
“They accelerated their repurchase plan, brought the share
count lower and pushed up earnings per share.”  Hooley last year said he was taking a “cautious” approach
to acquisitions. State Street made at least five acquisitions
since he took over in March 2010. The purchases have drawn
criticism from Peltz, whose Trian was the ninth-biggest  holder 
of State Street’s shares as of Sept. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Edward Resch, the firm’s chief financial officer for more
than a decade, will retire this year when a successor is found,
the company said in November.  Low Rates  State Street has struggled to raise operating profit over
the past four years as the U.S. Federal Reserve held its
benchmark interest rate at zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008 in an attempt to stimulate borrowing and economic growth.
Low rates hurt custody banks by reducing the return they make on
their own investments and lending. They’ve also forced State
Street to waive some fees on money-market funds to keep client
returns above zero.  Rising markets helped State Street in 2012 as the  MSCI ACWI
Index (MXWD)  of global equities gained 13 percent, following a 9.4
percent decline in 2011. State Street charges custody and
investment management fees based on the amount of money it
oversees for clients.  Assets Rise  Revenue rose 7 percent to $2.46 billion, driven by a 29
percent jump in investment-management fees as the amount of
money State Street invests for clients rose. Investment assets
were boosted by 13 percent, helped by $24 billion in net client
deposits including $13 billion to exchange-traded funds, Hooley
said in the interview. State Street is the second-biggest
provider of ETFs.  Assets under custody rose 12 percent to $24.4 trillion, and
the fees they generate rose 8.8 percent. Expenses increased 4.8
percent to $1.71 billion.  Clients having been taking money out of bonds and putting
it into domestic and international stocks since late last year,
Hooley said in a conference call with analysts. The shift helps
State Street as fees for overseeing and managing stock
investments are typically higher.  Hooley said he didn’t expect the shift to continue
throughout 2013.  “I’m just not ready to say the all-clear signal has been
given” for investors to take on more risk, he said. The
unresolved debate in  Washington  over raising the ceiling on U.S.
debt was the biggest threat to equity markets in the short term,
he said.  Custody Banks  Bank of New York Mellon Corp ., the largest custody bank,
said on Jan. 16 that fourth-quarter net income rose 23 percent
from a year earlier to $622 million, or 53 cents a share.
Chicago-based  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the third-biggest
independent custodian, said fourth-quarter earnings rose 29
percent to $167.7 million, or 69 cents a share.  The increase for both companies was driven by rising equity
markets and by restructuring costs booked in the fourth quarter
of 2011 that weren’t repeated last year. Low interest rates and
lower foreign exchange trading helped keep revenue growth to
about 2 percent for both BNY Mellon and Northern Trust.  State Street’s operating profit excludes money earned from
the sale or maturing of bonds whose value was written down in
May 2009, which the company records as “discount accretion”
within net interest income.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and hedge funds. State Street also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  