-- Sternlicht Cashing In on Housing Rebound in U.S. With IPO
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-01-18T20:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/sternlicht-cashing-in-on-housing-rebound-in-u-s-with-ipo.html
Barry Sternlicht , who built his
career buying distressed real estate in the early 1990s, is
seeking to profit from the U.S. housing market revival by taking
public a four-year-old homebuilder that has yet to make money.  Tri Pointe Homes LLC (TPH) , an  Irvine , California-based company
83.5 percent-owned by Sternlicht’s closely held Starwood Capital
Group LLC, has  filed  to raise as much as $187.2 million through
an initial public offering. The IPO will help Sternlicht, who
plans to sell 1.7 million of his Tri Pointe shares, get low-cost
capital for the company and recoup part of Starwood’s $150
million investment as demand for new houses and homebuilder
stocks rises.  “The markets are of the opinion that homebuilding is doing
nothing but going up,” Jeff Meyers, president of Meyers
Research, a unit of  Beverly Hills , California-based Kennedy-
Wilson Holdings Inc., said in a telephone interview. “The best
time for an IPO is when it looks like the sky has cleared.”  Homebuilder  shares  yesterday rose to their highest levels
since August 2007, after a report showing  housing starts  last
month jumped 37 percent from a year earlier to an annual pace of
954,000, the fastest rate since June 2008. Tri Pointe is one of
two homebuilders that have filed IPO plans since the beginning
of last month. Scottsdale, Arizona-based  Taylor Morrison Home
Corp. (TMHC)  said on Jan. 16 that it wants to raise $250 million.  Majority Owner  Starwood Capital, based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , has
about $20 billion of real estate assets under management,
including office buildings, hotels and residences, ranging from
single-family rental homes to apartment buildings, according to
the Tri Pointe filing.  Sternlicht, Tri Pointe’s chairman, may continue to own a
majority of the company after it goes public, potentially
holding 51.7 percent of its shares. The underwriters, led by
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , Deutsche Bank AG and FBR & Co., have the option
to purchase as many as 1.76 million shares. That would leave
Sternlicht’s ownership stake at 46.1 percent should the options
be fully exercised.  Starwood has the right to designate two members of Tri
Pointe’s board as long as it owns at least 25 percent of the
common stock. Starwood Managing Director Marc Perrin, who
oversees the firm’s West Coast investing, sits on Tri Pointe’s
board.  The IPO will give Sternlicht a potential exit from his
investment, through a sale to or merger with a larger builder in
about five years, said Stephen Duffy, an investment banker with
Moss Adams Capital LLC in Irvine.  ‘Last Boom’  “This is what I would do assuming we return to the housing
mergers and acquisition market that we saw in the last boom,”
Duffy said in an e-mail. “I believe that we will.”  Sternlicht, 52, declined to comment on the IPO, citing
regulatory restrictions on discussing a pending offering,
according to his spokesman,  Tom Johnson  of public-relations firm
Abernathy MacGregor Group.  Tri Pointe, which hasn’t reported a profit since its 2009
founding, had revenue of $26.7 million for the 12 months through
Sept. 30. It expects to report home-sale revenue for the quarter
ended Dec. 31 of $52 million to $55 million, according to the
preliminary prospectus. The company’s strategy is to acquire
land it can sell within two or three years “to maximize our
returns on capital and minimize our exposure to market risk,”
the builder said in the prospectus.  IPO Proceeds  Tri Pointe and Sternlicht are seeking to sell 11.7 million
shares at $14 to $16 each, according to a filing two days ago.
The IPO will raise about $137.7 million for the company,
assuming a share price of $15, after underwriting discounts and
offering expenses. Proceeds will be used “primarily for the
acquisition of land,” according to the prospectus.  Tri Pointe is an “emerging growth company,” as defined in
last year’s Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, also know as
the JOBS Act, which allows companies to go public with just two
years of audited financial statements rather than what had been
a three-year minimum. That makes calculating the company’s
valuation relative to publicly traded homebuilders difficult.  The company owned or had options to buy 1,393 lots as of
Sept. 30. A light land position can present a challenge at a
time when builders are competing to amass lots.  “In a recovering market, land becomes the biggest
constraining factor,”  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer of
Miami-based homebuilder  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , said on a conference call
this week. “Across the market right now, it is the biggest
constraining factor for builders. Driving community count and
finding new locations is very difficult.”  Land Pipeline  One of Tri Pointe’s advantages is having a pipeline of land
from Starwood, which has been acquiring lots since 2007, when
prices were falling as demand for new homes collapsed. Selling
Starwood land to Tri Pointe is a way for Sternlicht to be
involved with both sides of the transaction, said Richard
Gollis, principal at  Newport Beach , California-based Concord
Group, a real estate advisory firm.  “Having a public builder provides an additional
opportunity to monetize their land inventory,” Gollis said in a
telephone interview.  At the end of 2011, the most recent reporting period,
Sternlicht’s Starwood Land Ventures LLC had spent $220 million
to acquire almost 17,000 residential lots and generated $138
million in proceeds from the sale of more than 3,600 lots,
according to a company  statement  from February of last year.  ‘Big Investment’  “We made a big investment in residential land in ’08 and
’09 and we didn’t lever that at all,” Sternlicht said in a Nov.
30 interview with  Bloomberg Radio . “We’re just waiting for the
markets to recover, which they are.”  Tri Pointe intends to use proceeds from its IPO to acquire
92 lots in Castle Rock,  Colorado , from Starwood for $5.4
million, according to the preliminary prospectus. In December,
Tri Pointe paid about $3.2 million for 57 lots in the Colorado
development, according to the filing.  Tri Pointe said in its prospectus that conflicts may arise
with Starwood, and that Starwood may pursue land deals with
competitors.  Starwood controlled more than 21,100 residential lots
throughout the U.S. as of Sept. 30, including about 9,600 lots
in California,  Arizona  and Colorado, where Tri Pointe is
operating, according to the company’s IPO prospectus.  Strongest Recovery  Western states that suffered the biggest housing collapse
after prices peaked in 2006 have had the strongest recovery. An
 index  of homebuilder confidence in the western U.S. jumped 14
points in January to 59, its highest since June 2006, according
to a Jan. 16 report by the  National Association of Home Builders 
and Wells Fargo & Co. A reading below 50 means more respondents
reported poor conditions than reported good conditions, and
higher than 50 means the reverse. The U.S.  index  stood at 47,
unchanged from December.  Tri Pointe CEO Doug Bauer, President Thomas Mitchell and
Chief Financial Officer Michael Grubbs worked together at
William Lyon Homes, a Newport Beach-based builder that went
private in 2006. William Lyon Homes, which had borrowed $206
million from Thomas Barrack’s Colony Financial Inc., exited from
a prepackaged bankruptcy in December 2011 with Luxor Capital
Group LP as its majority owner.  “They’re experienced and well-liked in the industry,”
Meyers said of the three executives.  None of the three was able to comment because Tri Pointe is
in a quiet period, according to Bauer.  Apartment Purchases  Sternlicht founded Starwood in 1991 and began buying
apartments seized from savings-and-loan companies by the U.S.
government’s Resolution Trust Corp. In 2009, he led a group that
took over the real estate assets of bankrupt Corus Bankshares
Inc. from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  The public-private partnership has repaid $1.3 billion to
the FDIC and amassed more than $1 billion of cash, it said in a
statement today. ST Residential, the property manager owned by
the partnership, has begun marketing a portfolio of 13
multifamily properties with an estimated $1 billion value,
according to the statement.  “We are very proud of where we have taken this portfolio
and look forward to finishing our task with continued excellent
performance, including the sale of this portfolio,” Sternlicht
said in the statement.  Sternlicht has structured more than 300 investment
transactions with an asset value of more than $40 billion,
according to his company biography. From 1995 to 2005, he was
chairman and CEO of  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT) ,
where he created the W hotel chain.  “This is the best time to invest in property relative to
other asset classes since probably 1990, when I started Starwood
Capital Group,” Sternlicht said in the November interview.
“The asset class is in a sweet spot. It’s a good time for the
property markets in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  