-- U.K. Retail Sales Unexpectedly Decline Around Christmas
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-18T12:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/u-k-retail-sales-unexpectedly-fall-in-key-christmas-period-2-.html
U.K. retail sales  unexpectedly fell
in December as consumer uncertainty extended into the key
Christmas trading season for British stores.  Sales including fuel declined 0.1 percent from November,
when they stagnated, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today in  London .  The median forecast  of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.2 percent increase. Household
goods fell the most in almost three years. From a year earlier,
total sales rose 0.3 percent.  The data underscores the weakness of Britain’s high streets
in a week that saw  HMV Group Plc (HMV) , the U.K.’s biggest seller of
CDs and DVDs, and movie rental chain Blockbuster Entertainment
Ltd. enter administration. GfK NOP’s measure of  consumer
confidence  fell in December as the economy struggled to recover
from a recession. Some of the nation’s largest utilities have
raised electricity and gas prices, squeezing households.  “The festive period was fairly lackluster for the high
street,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at  Capital Economics 
in London. “With consumers’ real pay still falling, demand is
unlikely to improve in the foreseeable future.”  Excluding December 2010, when cold weather curbed  consumer
spending , the annual increase in sales last month was the
weakest for a December since 1998, the statistics office said.  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
report. It was trading at $1.5936 as of 11:40 a.m. in London,
down 0.4 percent from yesterday.  McCafferty’s View  Bank of England policy maker  Ian McCafferty  said today that
there “are questions on whether sterling is now at a
competitive level in terms of allowing that fundamental
rebalancing” needed in the economy.  McCafferty also said that the central bank must keep an
open mind on whether to use “unorthodox” tools to help the
economy, and that the central bank’s mandate is currently
“relatively flexible” and nominal targeting of gross domestic
product may only be of use as a temporary measure.  Sales of household goods dropped 3 percent in December from
November, the most since January 2010. Food sales fell 0.3
percent, while clothes and shoes rose 0.7 percent. Excluding
fuel, retail sales dropped 0.3 percent in December from the
previous month and were up 1.1 percent from a year earlier.  ‘Underwhelming’ Shopping  The  British Retail Consortium  has described the holiday
shopping period as “underwhelming.”  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) ,
the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer, said last week that same-
store general merchandise revenue fell 3.8 percent in the 13
weeks ended Dec. 29, more than analysts had forecast.  Today’s report also showed the continued growth of Internet
shopping that is taking its toll on high street stores. Online
accounted for 10.6 percent of all retail sales in December
compared with 9.4 percent a year earlier, according to the ONS.
Britons spent an average of 830 million pounds ($1.3 billion) a
week online in December, up from 719 million pounds in December
2011.  Asos Plc (ASC) , the U.K.’s largest online-only fashion retailer,
said yesterday that Christmas sales growth accelerated to 41
percent compared with fiscal first-quarter growth of 30 percent.  In the fourth quarter, the volume of retail sales fell 0.6
percent compared with the previous three months, the biggest
quarterly drop since August 2011. The National Institute of
Economic and Social Research estimates that the economy shrank
0.3 percent in the three months through December.  Bond Purchases  The  Bank of England  left its  target for bond purchases  at
375 billion pounds last week. It will have new economic and
inflation forecasts at its next policy meeting in February to
guide its decision.  U.K. consumers may remain under pressure this year.
Inflation held at 2.7 percent last month, above the Bank of
England’s 2 percent target and outpacing wage growth. Barclays
Plc said in a note this week that it expects consumers “to face
a continued squeeze on the back of weak wage growth, high
inflation and fiscal austerity.”  The retail report today showed the annual retail sales
deflator, a measure of changes in shop prices, rose to 0.6
percent in December from 0.4 percent in November. The deflator
on food stayed at 3 percent, the most since May.  Elsewhere,  China ’s economic growth accelerated for the
first time in two years as government efforts to revive demand
drove a rebound in industrial output, retail sales and the
housing market. Gross domestic product rose 7.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said in Beijing.  U.S.  consumer confidence  probably rose this month after
falling to a five-month low in December, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the release of the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  