-- U.K. FCA Will Adapt Rules Using Consumer-Behavior Data
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-01-18T17:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/u-k-fca-will-adapt-rules-using-consumer-behavior-data.html
The U.K. financial regulator is in
talks with a banking association to limit how long consumers
have to file payment-protection insurance claims, for which
banks have reserved more than 9 billion pounds ($14.3 billion).  The U.K. Financial Services Authority will consult with the
public before changing its rules on PPI claims, according to an
e-mailed statement today. The British Banking Association has
offered to fund an advertising campaign to explain to customers
how to complain about illegally sold PPI in return for a cut-off
date for compensation claims, the agency said.  “Our key priority is to ensure consumers are protected, so
the FSA Board would need to be convinced that any proposals
would be in the interests of consumers,” the London-based FSA
said.  The BBA lost a 2011 court challenge of the FSA’s guidelines
on how lenders should handle consumer complaints over payment-
protection insurance, opening the door to claims over past PPI
sales. Around 95 percent of payment-protection insurance
policies were sold inappropriately, said Martin Wheatley, the
U.K.’s chief markets regulator, in a speech last year.  The BBA wants “to ensure that where customers have been
mis-sold that they should receive all the compensation that they
are entitled to,” the group said in an e-mailed statement.  The insurance is used to cover payments on credit cards and
mortgages in case of illness or unemployment. Customers who
bought PPI rarely compared prices and terms or switched
providers, and usually weren’t aware they could have purchased
it from other companies, the U.K.’s Competition Commission has
said.  PPI generated as much as 5.5 billion pounds in annual
revenue for U.K. banks in 2011, with about 6.5 million policies
sold in 2006, the FSA has estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  