-- U.K. Stocks Climb as China’s GDP Growth Accelerates
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-01-18T17:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/u-k-stocks-climb-as-china-s-economy-expands-rio-gains.html
U.K. stocks  climbed, extending the
FTSE 100 Index’s highest level since May 2008, as  China’s
economy  accelerated for the first time in two years.  Rio Tinto Group climbed 1.8 percent following the departure
of its chief executive officer yesterday.  Johnson Matthey (JMAT)  Plc
and  Meggitt Plc (MGGT)  rose more than 1 percent as analysts upgraded
the shares.  Spectris Plc (SXS) , the U.K.’s biggest maker of
production-testing gear, surged 8.3 percent as sales increased.  The FTSE 100 increased 22.05 points, or 0.4 percent, to
6,154.41 at the close in London, extending this week’s gain to
0.5 percent. The broader FTSE All-Share Index advanced 0.4
percent while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slid 0.2 percent today.  “The gains we have seen so far bode very well for the year
ahead,” said  James Ferguson , chief strategist at Westhouse
Securities Ltd. in London. “ China  we know is going to have a
good year this year because of the change of leadership. They
have kept some firepower, and America is generally fixed by all
accounts in terms of the housing and debt recovery.”  The FTSE 100 has risen for three straight weeks, bringing
its advance so far this year to 4.4 percent, bolstered by
better-than-expected U.S and Chinese economic data and an
agreement by U.S. lawmakers on a compromise budget to help avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff.  China GDP  Today’s data in China showed the world’s second-largest
economy  expanded  7.9 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, according to the National Bureau of Statistics in
Beijing. That compared with the median economist estimate of 7.8
percent in a Bloomberg survey and the 7.4 percent gain in the
third quarter.  In the U.K.,  retail sales  unexpectedly fell 0.1 percent in
December as consumer uncertainty extended into the key Christmas
trading season for British stores, the  Office for National
Statistics  said. The median forecast of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg survey was for a 0.2 percent increase.  Rio Tinto  climbed 1.8 percent to 3,502.5 pence after the
stock jumped 2.7 percent in Sydney trading. The company
yesterday announced the departure of its chief executive
officer, Tom Albanese, and plans to write down $14 billion for
failed deals in aluminum and coal.  “Rio Tinto led the miners higher a day after the departure
of its CEO,” said Chris Beauchamp, market analyst at IG.
“Investors are looking towards the future with renewed
confidence.”  Johnson Upgrade  Johnson Matthey rallied 2.7 percent to 2,317 pence. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. added the company, which makes a third of all
auto-catalysts, to its “conviction buy” list, saying most of
the company’s near term headwinds including weak autos
productions, have been priced into the market.  Meggitt increased 1.4 percent to 437.2 pence, the highest
since at least 1988. Barclays upgraded its recommendation for
the shares to overweight, the equivalent of buy, from equal
weight, saying the world’s largest provider of wheels and brakes
for combat aircraft has a diversified and appealing mix of
businesses.  CRH Plc (CRH)  rose 0.9 percent to 1,250 pence in London as Exane
BNP Paribas upgraded the second-biggest maker of construction
materials to neutral from underperform. The brokerage cited
recent gains in the shares that were less than the wider market,
cost cutting and better margins in U.S. asphalt.  Spectris surged 8.3 percent to 2,190 pence, the highest
price since at least 1989, after saying fourth-quarter
comparable revenue climbed 4 percent. The company also reported
2012 operating profit that was in line with estimates.  International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG)  fell 1.6 percent
to 208.4 pence, paring yesterday’s 4.3 percent rally. London’s
Heathrow airport, the busiest in  Europe , canceled 347 flights
and said other services would be delayed as heavy snowfall swept
over southern Britain.  IAG’s British Airways, the biggest operator at Heathrow,
scrapped flights to airports including Paris  Charles de Gaulle ,
 St. Petersburg , Copenhagen and Manchester in northern England.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  