-- U.K. Economy Seen Shrinking 0.1% as Threat of Recession Remains
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-18T16:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/u-k-economy-seen-shrinking-0-1-as-threat-of-recession-remains.html
The U.K.  economy  probably shrank in
the fourth quarter as the boost from the  London  Olympic Games
unwound, tipping the economy back toward a recession at the end
of the year.  Gross domestic product fell 0.1 percent from the previous
three months, according to the median of 38 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey . The  Office for National Statistics  will
publish the data on Jan. 25 in London.  The U.K. economy resumed expansion in the third quarter,
though the recovery remains under pressure from government
spending cuts and inflation that’s outpacing wage growth. While
the  Bank of England  has halted its bond-purchase program, policy
maker  Ian McCafferty  said today officials may need to look at
new tools to spur growth.  “The U.K. may be heading for a triple-dip recession as
inflation eats into household finances, export conditions remain
tough and fiscal retrenchment weighs on the economy,” said Rob Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in London and a former Bank
of England official. “We continue to expect further monetary
stimulus in the second half of the year.”  The economy’s performance in the fourth quarter was also
affected by maintenance shutdowns of oil and gas platforms in
the  North Sea . Estimates in the  Bloomberg GDP survey  ranged from
a contraction of 0.5 percent to growth of 0.1 percent.  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
estimated last week that the economy shrank 0.3 percent in the
fourth quarter. Markit Economics has said that its
manufacturing,  services  and construction surveys are consistent
with the economy contracting by about 0.2 percent.  Markit also has said that the U.K. economy’s performance in
the three months through March may be hindered by poor weather.
London’s Heathrow airport canceled 347 flights today and said
others would be delayed as heavy snowfalls swept across southern
Britain. The U.K. Met Office issued a “red” alert for  Wales ,
warning that some areas might have as much as 30 centimeters (12
inches) of snow.  “The chances of a triple-dip recession are about 50-50,”
Wood said. “A triple dip may hang on the degree of disruption
from the expected snowfall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  