-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Fall; Morgan Stanley Risk Declines
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-01-18T22:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-rise-before-consumer-sentiment-data.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined for the second day amid talks about a short-term
lift in the U.S. debt ceiling.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.4
basis point to a mid-price of 87.2 basis points at 5:13 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark has increased from 84.9 basis points on Jan. 7, a 16-
week low.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  said today that the
chamber plans to pass a temporary increase in the debt-limit
next week. A failure to prevent a breach of the $16.4 trillion
maximum might push the economy into recession, hindering
companies’ ability to repay debt.  “Developments in  Washington  are very important in the
weeks to come,” Edward Marrinan, a macro credit
strategist at RBS Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. “The announcement today provided a
tailwind in the markets in the afternoon sessions.”  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Morgan Stanley  The cost of protecting  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s debt from losses
for five years fell after the owner of the world’s biggest
brokerage said earnings from that business more than doubled.
Fourth-quarter net income was $507 million, or 25 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $250 million, or 15 cents, a year
earlier.  Default swaps on the New York-based company’s debt declined
9 basis points to 153.5 basis points as of 4:14 p.m. in New
York, Bloomberg prices show. That’s the lowest since June 2011.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index dropped 2.1 basis points to 438.8 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The liquidity of speculative-grade borrowers remained
resilient in the first few weeks of January even as corporate
earnings performance has been moderate and the European
sovereign-debt crises poses domestic risks, according to a
report yesterday from Moody’s Investors Service.  The ratings company’s Liquidity-Stress Index, which
typically falls when corporations’ ability to manage cash needs
improves, dropped to 3.4 percent by mid-January, analysts led by
Tom Marshella wrote in the report. That’s close to a record low
of 3.1 percent in July.  The average relative yield on junk-rated debt rose 1 basis
point to 4.74 percentage points, Bloomberg data show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s . A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  