-- Ukraine Prosecutors Say Tymoshenko May Face Murder Charge
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-01-18T17:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/ukraine-prosecutors-say-tymoshenko-may-face-murder-charge.html
Ukrainian prosecutors said jailed
former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  may face  life
imprisonment  for murder, escalating a case that’s driven a wedge
between the former Soviet republic and the European Union.  Tymoshenko, already serving a seven-year sentence,
conspired with Pavlo Lazarenko, another former premier, to
organize the 1996 assassination of lawmaker and businessman
Evhen Shcherban, Prosecutor General Viktor Pshonka said in
remarks broadcast today by TVI. Serhiy Vlasenko, a lawyer for
Tymoshenko, said by phone that the accusation was “absurd.”  “Documents collected during pre-trial investigations show
Tymoshenko and Lazarenko ordered the murder,” Pshonka said.
“Investigators from the prosecutor general’s office visited
Tymoshenko today to notify her.”  Tymoshenko says her 2011 conviction for abuse of office
while premier was engineered by President  Viktor Yanukovych  to
keep her out of last October’s parliamentary elections. The 27-
member EU, which deems the verdict politically motivated, has
halted a planned Association Agreement. An International
Monetary Fund mission is due to arrive in Ukraine Jan. 29 to
discuss a third bailout since 2008.  The hryvnia, which has declined 0.9 percent against the
dollar this year, closed at 8.125, unchanged from yesterday. The
yield on the government’s dollar bond due 2020 fell 28 basis
points to 6.931, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Killing Christ  Tymoshenko had no reason to kill Shcherban, according to
Vlasenko, who said the lawmaker’s assets were transferred to
businessmen close to the president after his death.  “Tymoshenko wouldn’t have benefited from the murder,” he
said today. “It’s absurd -- it’s the same as to accuse her of
killing Jesus Christ.”  Tymoshenko, a leader of the Orange Revolution that helped
overturn Yanukovych’s 2004 presidential win, paid $2.8 million
together with Lazarenko for Shcherban’s murder, Pshonka said.
The killing was carried out because Shcherban didn’t bow to
pressure over natural gas prices from the energy company
Tymoshenko headed, he said.  “Crimes carried out in various criminal cases were carried
out with Tymoshenko’s participation,” Yanukovych said last June
in an interview. “This isn’t a secret for the whole world --
this happened. Including Shcherban’s murder. There were
motives.”  Tax Evasion  Tymoshenko also faces charges of tax evasion when she
headed gas trader United Energy Systems in the 1990s,
prosecutors have said. Lazarenko was sentenced to eight years in
a U.S prison in 2008 and ordered to pay a $32 million fine for
 money laundering  and conspiracy in connection with transactions
he oversaw while in office.  A decision to charge Tymoshenko would be a “major
escalation” in her case and would probably draw a response from
Western governments, according to Tim Ash, head of emerging-
market research at Standard Bank Plc in  London .  “Western diplomats have argued that such action, which
would be viewed as politically motivated, would risk sanctions
being levied by Western governments against individual members
of the Yanukovych administration,” he said by e-mail. “This
could also complicate relations with international lenders as
Ukraine moves to secure a new financing agreement with the
IMF.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  