-- Hungary’s Bonds Slump After Fitch Ratings Says Upgrade Unlikely
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-18T10:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/hungary-s-bonds-slump-after-fitch-ratings-says-upgrade-unlikely.html
Hungary’s bonds slumped the most in
a week and the forint fell after  Fitch Ratings  said it’s “very
unlikely” to lift the country to investment-grade.  Yields on Hungary’s benchmark 10-year bonds erased earlier
declines to rise eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
to 6.32 percent. The forint weakened less than 0.1 percent to
292.61 per euro by 11:22 a.m. in Budapest.  “Unpredictable” policies from Prime Minister  Viktor
Orban ’s government, a shrinking economy and Hungary’s failure to
secure an International Monetary Fund aid agreement are weighing
on the ratings, Fitch director Matteo Napolitano said at a
conference in Warsaw today. Fitch rates Hungary BB+, one step
below investment grade, with a stable outlook.  “An upgrade to investment grade would be very important
for the Hungarian market to find its feet,”  Akos Kuti , the
Budapest-based head of research at broker Equilor Befektetesi
Zrt., said in a telephone interview. “Based on the comments, we
now have to wait another six months or year for that to be on
the agenda.”  The forint was set for a 1.1 percent advance this week
after Mihaly Varga, the minister in charge of aid talks with the
International Monetary Fund, said in a HirTV interview that the
currency should be trading in a stronger range. Economy Minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  triggered losses last week after writing in his
weekly column in Heti Valasz newspaper on Jan. 10 that he
opposed strengthening the currency to fight inflation.  “The market has probably taken Varga’s comments as verbal
intervention,” Levente Blaho and Adam Keszeg, analysts at
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , wrote in a research report
today. “The external environment has also been favorable for
regional currencies and remains so because of better-than-
expected Chinese data.”  Stocks around the world rose with the MSCI Emerging Markets
 Index (MXEF)  adding 0.7 percent after data showed China’s economy
accelerated for the first time in two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  