-- UnitedHealth Executives Go Back to School to Improve Care
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-18T14:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/unitedhealth-executives-go-back-to-school-to-improve-care.html
A group of 45 doctors, insurers and
policy makers frustrated by the current state of health care are
set to graduate tomorrow from a first-of-a-kind program at
 Dartmouth College  designed to help them improve patient care.  The students are largely executive-level employees of the
Mayo Clinic,  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and top U.S. hospitals. The
Master of Health Care Delivery Science, with most classes taught
online, was born of concern for shortcomings in how health care
is delivered, said  Robert Hansen , senior associate dean at
Dartmouth’s  Tuck School  of Business in Hanover,  New Hampshire .  Former Dartmouth President Jim Kim, who left the 244-year-
old  Ivy League  school in July to run the  World Bank , started the
course to solve the “unsustainable burden of health costs,”
said Katherine Milligan, director of the program. A government-
sponsored study last week found that Americans are sicker and
more likely to die earlier than peers in high-income countries,
despite the U.S. spending more per capita on health care.  “We’re spending so much money and yet we know the outcomes
in terms of quality are not as good as we’d like them to be,”
Hansen said in a telephone interview. “It cannot be the same
old way. It is not going to work. They’re looking for tools to
find solutions that are scalable.”  If anyone knows about the frustrations associated with the
wildly varying outcomes in the health-care system, it’s
Dartmouth. The college produces the Dartmouth Atlas of Health
Care that has for more than 20 years “documented glaring
variations in how medical resources are distributed and used”
in the U.S., according to the project’s website.  Preterm Births  Most recently, the Atlas found treatment decisions for
Medicare patients who could either take medication or have
surgery depended largely on where they live and the clinicians
they see.  Since July 2011, the students have gathered online once a
week for video tutorials and attended classes at the Dartmouth
campus every six months. Students can choose their own projects.  Mark Moon, 47, section head of executive and international
medicine at the  Mayo Clinic  in Jacksonville,  Florida , landed on
a team composed mainly of employees of Minnetonka, Minnesota-
based UnitedHealth, the largest U.S. provider of medical
coverage. They chose to research how to reduce elective preterm
deliveries.  The group found about a 20 percent reduction, according to
preliminary results, in preterm deliveries at about 10 hospitals
throughout the country where staff received education about the
adverse effects of scheduling early births for mothers and
babies. Extrapolating to a nationwide basis, that would mean
40,000 fewer admissions to neonatal intensive care units each
year, saving the health-care system $1 billion annually, Moon
said.  Strange Bedfellows  “If someone told me working with United would lead to a
project like this in terms of better cost, I would say that I
don’t see where I’m aligned with the interests of a payer,” he
said in a telephone interview. “This is only the tip of the
iceberg for conversations that are going to happen across what
were disparate parties.”  Other groups are examining benefit packages that promote
the health of Vermont residents, creating a nationwide treatment
model for one of the most common lung diseases and reducing
preventable blindness in  India .  In addition to those from the Mayo Clinic and UnitedHealth,
course materials show that the graduating class also includes an
Oklahoma state senator, a New Hampshire public health official
and a commander in the U.S. Navy. Milligan said the class was
the “first degree program in the Ivy League to have a distance
component to it.”  President  Barack Obama ’s health-care system overhaul that
passed in 2010 has produced changes that also gave the class
additional topics to discuss, Hansen said. He said that with
budget cuts becoming a constant focus, his student’s last class
focused on dealing with reductions in payments from Medicare,
the government program for the elderly and disabled.  “This industry is constantly changing from a care, policy
perspective,” Hansen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  