-- West Texas Oils Strengthen on Seaway, Pending Pipeline Projects
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-01-18T20:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/west-texas-oils-strengthen-on-seaway-pending-pipeline-projects.html
West  Texas  oils strengthened on the
 spot market , helped by the Seaway pipeline expansion and the
impending completion of several pipeline projects designed to
drain a glut of crude bottlenecked in the region.  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  completed the 250,000-
barrel-a-day expansion of the Seaway pipeline Jan. 11, opening
up a route for more West Texas Intermediate oils to get a higher
price on the Gulf Coast.  Sunoco Logistics (SXL)  Partners LP and
 Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  are expanding pipelines running
from West Texas to Houston by a total of 145,000 barrels a day
as early as the end of this quarter.  West Texas Intermediate oil delivered at Midland gained
$3.25 a barrel to trade at a $3.25 discount to the same grade
delivered at the U.S. supply hub in Cushing, Oklahoma, as of
2:05 p.m.  New York  time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The discount for West Texas oils has narrowed by more than
two-thirds since Jan. 11, when WTI Midland was trading at a $13
discount and West Texas Sour, another oil produced in Texas’s
Permian Basin, was at a $19 discount. West Texas Sour’s discount
has more than halved to $8.50 since then.  Rising shale oil production from the Permian Basin region
in West Texas and southern  New Mexico  has filled pipeline
capacity and contributed to oversupply in Cushing.  Production Rises  Texas oil  production  increased 31 percent to an average of
2.1 million barrels a day in October from a year earlier, Energy
Department data show. New drilling techniques have unlocked oil
in shale rock formations, boosting the state’s output to the
highest level since 1987.  Sunoco Logistics plans on having two pipeline expansions
from western Texas complete by the end of the first quarter,
These include a 30,000-barrel-a-day line to Longview, Texas, and
a 40,000-barrel-a-day line to Nederland, Texas, Joe McGinn, a
spokesman for the Philadelphia-based company, said in a phone
interview Jan. 15.  Magellan Midstream will also finish the reversal of the
Longhorn pipeline from Crane, Texas, to Houston and begin moving
75,000 barrels a day by late in the first quarter or early in
the second quarter, the company’s Tulsa, Oklahoma-based
spokesman Bruce Heine said in an e-mail.  The expansions will add capacity to the region currently
provided by  Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA) ’s Basin pipeline,
which moves as many as 450,000 barrels a day of oil to Cushing.  In  Canada , Syncrude, a synthetic light crude produced from
bitumen, weakened 75 cents to a $1.75 discount to WTI, according
to Calgary oil broker Net Energy Inc. Western Canada Select, a
heavy bitumen blend, lost 60 cents to trade at a $37.10
discount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  