-- Westfield Joins Hammerson in $1.6 Billion Croydon Project
-- B y   A n d r e w   B l a c k m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-01-18T00:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/westfield-joins-hammerson-in-1-6-billion-croydon-project.html
Hammerson Plc (HMSO)  and  Westfield Group (WDC) 
formed a venture to rebuild part of the English town of Croydon
in south  London  in a project valued at about 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion), ending a tussle over the development.  Westfield, based in Sydney, bought half of the Centrale
mall from London-based Hammerson as part of the agreement,
according to a statement yesterday. The two companies will also
purchase 25 percent of the Whitgift Centre after Hammerson
acquires the mall from Royal London Asset Management Ltd.  Hammerson, Britain’s third-largest real estate company by
market value, was appointed in April by the leasehold owners to
manage and redevelop the Croydon center. Westfield, the world’s
biggest mall operator by assets, had planned a development on
the same site after signing a deal in November with the Whitgift
Foundation, which owns the freehold.  The agreement “ends the battle for control and therefore
reduces the risk of overpaying,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst
Harm Meijer said in a note to investors yesterday.  Hammerson and Westfield plan to redevelop and combine the
Centrale mall and the Whitgift Centre, Croydon’s biggest retail
outlets, and build retail, leisure and residential properties on
a 200,000 square-meter (2.15 million square-foot) site, the
groups said in the statement. Construction is expected to start
in 2015.  Westfield shares rose 0.8 percent to A$11.02 as of 10:13
a.m. in Sydney, bringing increases in the past 12 months to 29
percent. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 13 percent in
the past year. Hammerson rose 1 percent in London trading
yesterday to 487.7 pence, extending  gains  in the past 12 months
to 32 percent.  Expanding Pipeline  For Westfield, “this continues the expansion of its
development and construction pipeline,” Simon Scott, Sydney-
based executive director for Australian equities at Moelis &
Co., wrote in a note today. “We expect the momentum to be
maintained as new projects begin at existing centers and other
greenfield and/or brownfield sites are secured in  Europe .”  Despite tough trading conditions in the short term, U.K.
shopping center performance will see a “gradual recovery” in
2013 as demand revives for better quality properties, broker
Knight Frank LLP said in a  report .  U.K.  consumer confidence  fell in December from an 18-month
high as optimism about the outlook for the economy dropped,
according to London-based research group GfK NOP Ltd. Still, the
labor market stayed resilient, with jobless claims unexpectedly
falling by 3,000 in November from October. A wider measure of
unemployment also dropped by the most in 11 years.  Westfield Design  Westfield will handle the Croydon project’s design and
construction, while Hammerson continues to manage Centrale and
any other acquisitions before the development of the Whitgift
center, they said. A joint management company will be
responsible for the development, leasing and asset management of
the completed project.  Westfield, which is on a quest for higher returns from
fewer assets held on its own balance sheet, in October agreed to
sell its interest in the planned Bradford shopping center in
Northern England while retaining the right to manage the
development and mall in completion. The group, which also pulled
back from its joint venture with AMP Capital Investors Ltd. in
October, maintained its design and construction roles at the
malls taken over by AMP.  Project Fees  “By selling out its interest and retaining the design and
construction on these projects, it takes fees across the entire
project rather than just at a smaller joint venture partner
share,” Rob Stanton, Sydney-based real estate analyst at JP
Morgan, wrote in a note upgrading the company to “neutral” on
Jan. 11. “Westfield made strong moves in its development
business in the fourth quarter, adding an unexpected A$2 billion
to its pipeline.”  Westfield reported a 3.1 percent increase in funds from
operations to A$751 million, or 32.8 cents a share, in the six
months ended June 30 from the prior year, and said funds from
operations would be 65 cents a security for the full year.  Hammerson in June agreed to sell most of its London office
buildings to  Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO)  for 518 million
pounds in a bet that shopping malls will outperform other real
estate. The group planned to build up its retail property base
through extensions, developments and acquisitions, Chief
Executive Officer David Atkins said in a statement in July.  Hammerson in October said it bought four U.K. retail
complexes for 255 million pounds. It acquired the Victoria
Quarter shopping arcades in Leeds for 136 million pounds in
September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Blackman in Berlin at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  