-- Whole Foods’ Mackey Says Employees Should Come Before Investors
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-01-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/whole-foods-mackey-says-employees-should-come-before-investors.html
Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  Co-Chief
Executive Officer John Mackey said employees, not shareholders,
need to be the first priority for businesses.  “I really don’t think shareholders should come first, I
think it’s fundamentally a bad strategy,” Mackey said yesterday
at a Captains of Industry series interview with Norman Pearlstine, chief content officer of Bloomberg News. “Happy
team members result in happy customers, happy customers result
in happy investors. If you put shareholders first, you won’t get
there.”  The event at the 92nd Street Y in New York was sponsored by
Bloomberg Businessweek.  Mackey, 59, a self-styled “conscious” capitalist and
longtime nonconformist, has written a new book in which he
criticizes companies that focus solely on maximizing profit. The
book, “Conscious Capitalism,” was released this week.  In the book, Mackey and his co-author, Raj Sisodia, a
Bentley University marketing professor, discuss ways to create
value and lift people from poverty. Mackey’s bottom line: making
money need not be a zero-sum game.  “Business has got to rediscover its higher purpose,”
Mackey said in the interview.  The college dropout co-founded a natural-foods store in
Austin,  Texas , in 1978 with his then-girlfriend, Renee Lawson
Hardy. The store was called Safer Way, a spoof on the  Safeway
Inc. (SWY)  chain, which operated supermarkets nearby. Two years later,
Mackey and Hardy merged their company with two other grocers to
form the original Whole Foods.  Sales Growth  The company began expanding beyond Austin in 1984 and
acquired regional grocery stores and chains in the 1990s. Sales
rose 16 percent to $11.7 billion in the fiscal year ended in
September, the third straight year with  revenue  growth of at
least 12 percent. Since the grocer went public in 1992, the
 shares  have soared more than fivefold.  Mackey says he practices what he preaches at Whole Foods by
capping executive pay at 19 times the company’s average hourly
wage. For the four years through 2011, he earned $1 in salary
and received no bonus. Whole Foods has no corporate jet.  In the book, Mackey and Sisodia write that  Costco Wholesale
Corp. (COST) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  also practice
conscious capitalism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  