-- Wipro Declines Most in Nine Months as Staff Use Falls
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a   a n d   S u r e s h   S e s h a d r i
-- 2013-01-18T11:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/wipro-profit-jumps-more-than-expected-18-on-outsourcing-demand.html
Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , the technology-services
company controlled by billionaire  Azim Premji , fell the most in
four years in Mumbai trading after reporting a decline in staff-
utilization rates.  The  company  tumbled 7.7 percent to 397.35 rupees, the most
since January 2009, and was the worst performer on the 30-stock
BSE India  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)  The benchmark rose 0.4 percent.  Wipro used 74.8 percent of available man-hours in the
quarter ended December, down from 77.9 percent a year earlier,
as it failed to win enough contracts to keep its expanding
workforce busy. The share decline also followed gains over the
past week that were triggered by better-than-expected earnings
at competitors  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  and  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)   “Volume growth is negative, making the trajectory of the
business appear a little weak,” said Ankur Rudra, an analyst
with Mumbai-Based Ambit Capital Ltd. “There’s also been a bit
of a correction.”  Wipro had gained 9 percent through yesterday since Jan. 10.
Infosys,  India ’s No. 2 software exporter, raised its sales
forecast on Jan. 11 before the start of trading.  The drop in Bangalore-based Wipro’s staff use overshadowed
better-than-expected profit in the quarter through December. Net
income climbed to 17.2 billion rupees ($320 million) in the
period, beating the 16.3 billion-rupee average of 39  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  ’’As more and more deal wins happen, we expect volume
growth to catch up,’’ Wipro Chief Financial Officer Suresh Senapaty told reporters today in Bangalore. “It will be a
combination of volume and price.”  The company forecast information-technology services
revenue in the range of $1.59 billion and $1.63 billion in the
quarter through March. Wipro’s guidance has factored uncertainty
stemming from the U.S. debt ceiling and fiscal deficit concerns,
Senapaty said.  “Both have to be dealt with between February and March,”
said Senapaty. “So that has somewhat of an overhang on
sentiment not being strongly positive.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  