-- Wisconsin Union Law Backed by Walker Upheld by U.S. Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-19T00:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/wisconsin-union-law-backed-by-walker-upheld-by-u-s-court.html
Wisconsin  Governor  Scott Walker ’s
2011 legislation curbing the collective bargaining rights of
some public unions and not others was upheld in its entirety by
a federal appeals court.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Chicago  today reversed a
lower-court ruling that portions of the law were
unconstitutional. The legislation sparked protests outside the
state’s Capitol and a recall election in June, in which Walker,
a Republican, defeated Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, his
Democratic challenger.  The parts of the law known as Act 10, requiring annual
recertification votes and barring the voluntary deduction of
dues, don’t violate U.S. constitutional guarantees of equal
protection under the law and free speech, the appeals court
panel’s majority said in its 74-page decision.  “We now uphold Act 10 in its entirety,” U.S. Circuit
Judge Joel Flaum wrote.  U.S. Circuit Judge David Hamilton wrote the partial
dissent. He broke with the majority on its approval of the
state’s prohibition of voluntary payroll deductions “for some
public employee unions but not others.”  ‘Vital’ Provisions  The Wisconsin Education Association Council last year sued
in federal court in Madison, the state’s capital city, seeking
to overturn the law and saying it was politically motivated and
discriminatory.  “Today’s court ruling is a victory for Wisconsin
taxpayers,” Walker said in an e-mailed statement. The
provisions in Act 10 “were vital in balancing Wisconsin’s $3.6
billion  budget deficit  without increasing taxes, without massive
employee layoffs, and without cuts to programs like Medicaid,”
he said.  U.S. District Judge William Conley ruled in March that the
requirement that unions must vote -- by a majority of their
membership, not merely those voting -- to re-certify each year
violated the equal protection principle because some unions were
classified as engaged in “public safety” and exempted from
compliance.  All of the public safety unions qualifying for the
exemption supported Walker in his 2010 gubernatorial campaign
while none of the general employee unions to which the rule
applied backed him, Conley said.  ‘Gerrymandered’ Definition  Leon Dayan, a lawyer for the Wisconsin Education
Association, said during his Sept. 24 appellate argument that
the legislation contained a “gerrymandered” definition of
public safety employee to protect those who backed Walker’s
election in 2010.  “Its a political payback distinction and not a substantive
policy distinction,” said Dayan, of the Washington firm
Bredhoff & Kaiser PLLC. Dayan didn’t immediately respond to a
phone message seeking comment on the ruling.  State Senate Democratic Leader Chris Larson called the
appeals court decision “an immense setback.”  “After half a century of labor progress in Wisconsin,
upholding this divisive legislation will only hurt Wisconsin’s
working, middle-class families,” Larson said in a statement.  Joined by U.S. Circuit Judge William Bauer, Flaum wrote
that political favoritism is a frequent aspect of legislative
action.  “Accordingly, we must resist the temptation to search for
the legislature’s motivation for the act’s classifications,”
the judges said in the ruling.  In a September ruling in a separate state court case, Judge
Juan B. Colas in Madison declared the legislation
unconstitutional after concluding it unduly burdened the free-
association and free-speech rights of union members.  The state has appealed that ruling.  The case is Wisconsin Education Association Council v.
Walker, 12-2011,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Seventh Circuit
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  