-- Woods, Top-Ranked McIlroy Miss Cut at Abu Dhabi Golf Tournament
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-19T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/woods-top-ranked-mcilroy-miss-cut-at-abu-dhabi-golf-tournament.html
Tiger Woods and Rory McIlroy both
missed the cut at the European Tour’s HSBC Championship, with
Woods being assessed a two-shot penalty yesterday that cost him
his place in the final two rounds.  England’s  Justin Rose  holds the lead going into today’s
third round at 8-under, one shot better than James Donaldson of
Wales, Spain’s Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano and Thorbjorn Olesen of
 Denmark .  McIlroy and Woods, the top two in the  Official World Golf
Ranking , both shot 75 yesterday at Abu Dhabi Golf Club. The
penalty left Woods at 3-over par for 36 holes, one shot over the
score needed to play on the weekend, while playing partner
McIlroy finished at 6-over.  Second-ranked Woods was penalized for an illegal drop after
hitting his tee shot on the par-4 fifth hole into some plants on
the right of the fairway.  He said he asked  Martin Kaymer , the third member of his
group, to examine his lie and both players agreed the ball was
embedded. Woods then took a drop and played on.  European Tour chief referee Andy McFee told Woods on the
11th hole the incident was being investigated and the penalty
was eventually imposed after the round.  “It’s tough,” Woods said on the European Tour’s  website .
“I didn’t get off to a good start, and I fought hard. I got it
to where I thought I could play the weekend and thought that I
might have a chance.”  According to McFee, the rule infringement was brought to
light when spectators walking with Woods’s group were asked by a
referee, who hadn’t seen the incident, why the American took a
drop.  “No referee was involved but we suspected it might have
been embedded ball,” McFee said. “So we went and had a look at
the area and thought ‘well, embedded ball rule just does not
apply.’”  McIlroy shot 3-over in both of his two rounds in his first
start since signing an endorsement agreement with  Nike Inc. (NKE)  The
Northern Irishman, runner-up to  Robert Rock  at last year’s
tournament, finished with five bogeys and two birdies on the
day.  “I’m very disappointed,” he told reporters. “You never
want to get off to a poor start, but I’ve got to realize it’s
only the start of the season.”  Germany’s Kaymer shot 69 yesterday to move into a tie for
seventh place at 4-under.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 