-- World Bank Court Rules for Venezuela in Gold Mining Case
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-01-18T18:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-18/world-bank-court-rules-for-venezuela-in-mining-case-correct-.html
The World Bank’s arbitration court
dismissed claims brought by a Canadian mining company against
Venezuela in its first ruling on mining and energy seizures that
started when President  Hugo Chavez  came to power in 1999.  The case, initially filed at the Washington-based
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes in
2004, was brought by Vannessa Ventures Ltd. over the
nationalization of the Las Cristinas gold mine in 2001.  The court, known as ICSID, concluded that the mining
company’s rights under the Canada-Venezuela bilateral investment
treaty weren’t violated in a  ruling  issued Jan. 16 and posted on
its website. Venezuela is facing 29 pending cases at the ICSID,
including claims filed by oil companies  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
 ConocoPhillips. (COP)   “The exaggerated and illegitimate efforts of this
transnational to recover $1 billion plus interest and costs were
totally rejected by the court, making Venezuela the victor in
this controversy,” Venezuela’s Information Ministry said
yesterday in a  statement  on its website.  Gold Seizure  Venezuela’s National Guard seized control of the Las
Cristinas mine, which has reserves of about 27 million ounces of
gold, in November 2001 from Vannessa Ventures. The rights were
transfered to  Crystallex International Corp. (CRYFQ)  in late 2002 before
being taken over again by Venezuela in 2011.  Toronto-based Crystallex has pending arbitration at the
ICSID against Venezuela for the nationalization.  The South American country said last year that it would
develop the mine with China’s Citic Group.  John Terry , a lawyer at Torys LLP in Toronto listed as a
legal contact for Vannessa Ventures in the ICSID ruling, said
today in an e-mailed response to questions that he didn’t have a
comment on the arbitration decision.  Vannessa, now known as  Infinito Gold Ltd. (IG) , said in a
 statement  posted on its website yesterday the ruling “concludes
the arbitration process that was initiated in July of 2004.”  Venezuela’s government, which has been an ICSID member
since 1993, officially asked to leave in January 2012. Chavez,
who is receiving treatment for an undisclosed type of cancer in
Cuba, said last year that he wouldn’t accept rulings from the
arbitration court.  Pending Cases  Other companies with pending ICSID arbitration against
Venezuela include  Gold Reserve Inc. (GRZ) ,  Tidewater Inc. (TDW) ,  Williams
Cos. Inc. (WMB) , Koch Industries Inc.,  Owens-Illinois Inc. (OI) ,  Tenaris SA (TEN) 
and  Rusoro Mining Ltd. (RML)   ConocoPhillips and Exxon Mobil have won mixed rulings from
arbitration claims against state oil company  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA  at the Paris-based  International Chamber of
Commerce , a separate court known as the ICC.  “Transnational interests are trying to corner us on our
sovereign decisions in both the oil and mining sectors,” Oil
Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said today on state television. “We’re
going to defend our country’s sovereignty as a strategic
principle and this triumph that was announced yesterday is one
more step in that direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  