-- Abbott Unloved Leads Gillard’s Labor in Australian Polls
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-10-30T03:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/abbott-unloved-runs-ahead-of-gillard-s-party-in-australia-polls.html
Shirley Barrie says she’s not a fan
of Australia’s opposition leader  Tony Abbott . She’ll vote for
him anyway.  “He polarizes people,” said the 50-year-old business
administrator, who in past elections has voted for both the
country’s major parties, as she ate lunch in a park in Sydney’s
financial district. “I do not vote for the person, but I vote
for the party.”  Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition has led in almost every
opinion poll for more than 18 months even though his personal
popularity trails that of Prime Minister  Julia Gillard . While
the governing  Labor party  closed the gap after Australia’s first
female prime minister labeled Abbott a sexist and misogynist in
parliament this month, he’s unlikely to suffer long-term damage
from the broadside, said political analyst Zareh Ghazarian.  “Labor has been painting him as a social conservative with
sexist undertones and ramping up a discussion on gender issues
because voters are refusing to listen to it about anything
else,” said Ghazarian, a lecturer at the School of Political
and Social Inquiry at Melbourne’s  Monash University . “The
opposition leader’s job isn’t to win a popularity contest, it’s
to lead his party into government, and the long-term trend
suggests Abbott is on his way to doing that.”  Abbott, a 54-year-old  Rhodes Scholar  and former amateur
boxer who studied for the priesthood, has led the attack on
Labor since becoming Liberal Party leader in December 2009, with
claims the minority government is willing to compromise its
integrity to cling to power. His coalition is pledging to
overturn Gillard’s taxes on  carbon emissions  and mining profits
if it wins elections due by November 2013.  Growth Reversal  The opposition leader says the taxes have contributed to a
slowdown in the economy, which has been expanding for 21 years,
and that the government’s immigration policy has contributed to
a surge in asylum seekers. More than 600 refugees have drowned
in the waters between Indonesia and Australia in the past three
years, according to a government-commissioned report.  Labor hasn’t led the coalition in the so-called two-party
preferred vote since a  survey  conducted March 18-20, 2011.
Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition was even with Labor at 50
percent in a Newspoll survey published Oct. 29 in the Australian
newspaper.  That result is based on the two-party preferred system,
which political analyst  Andrew Hughes  at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra says is the best gauge of potential
election results. Under the system, the major parties receive a
primary vote and may also receive preference votes once minor
parties or independents are eliminated.  Coalition Lead  Support for Labor rose 4 points from the previous poll,
while the coalition dropped 4 points. The telephone survey of
1,176 people, conducted Oct. 26-28, had a margin of error of
plus or minus 3 percentage points. The coalition has led by an
average of 8.7 percentage points in Newspoll surveys this year.  Newspoll Chief Executive Officer Martin O’Shannessy said
that in the company’s surveys dating back to 1985, there has
never been a comeback on the scale Labor would need to govern in
its own right.  “The challenge is great, not impossible, but very great,”
he said in a telephone interview. “Labor has had resurgence
since July and is now looking like it’s in a contest,” although
the coalition is still on track to win the next election,
O’Shannessy said.  ‘Very Blunt’  Personally, it’s another story. This week’s Newspoll survey
found that former union lawyer Gillard, 51, was the  preferred
prime minister . She registered 45 percent support, against 34
percent for Abbott.  In the 2010  national ballot , after which Gillard had to
cobble together a minority government with support from Greens
and independents, Labor won 50.12 percent of the two-party
preferred vote, compared with the coalition on 49.88 percent.  “He’s unpopular because he’s very blunt on some topics
where Australians like to think of themselves as politically
correct,” said Hughes, who conducts political-marketing
research. “It’s Abbott’s way or the highway. The Liberals’
brand is conservative, so he’s always going to appeal to the
party’s base.”  It was Gillard who was blunt on Oct. 9 as she defended her
government’s support of parliamentary Speaker  Peter Slipper , who
sent  text messages  containing crude references to women. He
later resigned the speakership. The prime minister wanted to
keep Slipper in the position to help her minority government
pass legislation.  Writing Resignation  Gillard  accused  Abbott of “repulsive double standards when
it comes to misogyny and sexism,” and said he had been
“catcalling across this table at me as I sit here as prime
minister.” She produced quotes she attributed to Abbott that
she said offended her “on behalf of the women of Australia.”  “The leader of the opposition says that people who hold
sexist views and who are misogynists are not appropriate for
high office,” she said in her speech, which has received more
than 2 million views on YouTube. “I hope the leader of the
opposition has got a piece of paper and he is writing out his
resignation.”  Abbott, who is married with three daughters, told reporters
in Sydney on Oct. 17 that the charges of sexism were “cheap,
grubby smears” from Gillard and her senior ministers.  “The coalition is not interested in the politics of
personal attacks,”  Abbott’s office  said in an e-mailed
statement on Oct. 27. “We are focused on holding a bad
government to account for its failed policies and poor economic
management and explaining our plans to build a better Australia
through lower taxes, lower spending, higher productivity and
closer engagement with Asia.”  Keating Victory  Australians have voted unpopular leaders into power before.
 Paul Keating  won the March 1993 election for Labor, in what he
described in his acceptance speech as “the sweetest victory of
all,” after trailing opposition leader John Hewson by 15
percentage points just 14 months earlier, according to Newspoll.
Keating himself was the preferred prime minister by 5 percentage
points three years later during the next election, comfortably
won by  John Howard .  “I am going to vote against Gillard because she has put
power above integrity, power above honesty,” said Tim Monckton,
57, a self-described “floating voter” who works in financial
services in Sydney. Instead he’ll vote for Abbott, despite what
he calls the opposition leader’s lack of statesmanship and
tendency toward populist attacks on the government.  “No one wants to vote for Labor but everyone has the same
concerns as I do about Abbott,” Monckton said. “He is playing
to the masses. He has got to offer more than that.”  Australian Conservatism  Abbott won the party leadership on opposing a carbon
emissions trading system, which his predecessor  Malcolm Turnbull 
had supported for Australia, the developed world’s biggest
 polluter  of  greenhouse gases  per capita.  He is the “standard bearer for a particular form of
Australian conservatism,” according to Tim Soutphommasane, a
lecturer at  Monash University  ’s National Centre for Australian
Studies and at the Graduate School of Government in the
 University of Sydney .  Abortion has been “reduced to a question of the mother’s
convenience” and is “a national tragedy,” Abbott said in a
speech in March 2004, when he was Australia’s health minister.
Abortion is legal in the nation, though guidelines for when
termination may take place vary between states.  China View  As opposition leader, Abbott has proposed tougher
guidelines on foreign ownership of farmland and said in July
that investment by China, the nation’s biggest trading partner,
“is complicated” by the prevalence of state-owned enterprises.  “He has been highly adversarial and aggressive as
opposition leader,” Soutphommasane said in a telephone
interview. “The question is whether he can make the transition
to being a more unifying figure as prime minister.”  Heading into next year’s election “Labor will be telling
voters that Abbott is a divisive and ugly person who’s not fit
to lead the country,” said Haydon Manning, an associate
professor who heads the Department of Politics and Public Policy
at Flinders University in Adelaide. “Countering that, the
coalition has the capacity to deliver photo opportunities of him
with his family, telling a very mainstream, reassuring story.”  Australian men are more likely to support Abbott than women
are. An analysis of Newspoll surveys, published in the
Australian on Oct. 5, showed 29 percent of female voters are
satisfied with Abbott, compared with 34 percent of men.  ‘Blokey’ Culture  Gillard, who has been portrayed as lying nude under the
Australian flag and having sex in her office in a television
comedy, said in a September 2011 interview that Australia has a
“blokey” culture. Only 27 percent of men are satisfied with
her performance as prime minister, compared with 32 percent of
women, according to the  Australian .  “Gillard’s speech opened up a conversation about sexism
and misogyny, which is important because powerful women have
emerged in recent years and that’s caused anxiety,” said
Catharine Lumby, a feminist author and director of the
Journalism and Media Research Centre at Sydney’s  University of
New South Wales.   In a Newspoll survey published today in the Australian, 39
percent of those questioned said Abbott had behaved in a sexist
way toward Gillard recently, while 45 percent said he hadn’t.
The telephone survey of 1,218 people, conducted Oct. 26-28, had
a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Black Eye  Born in London to expatriate Australian parents, Abbott was
raised in Sydney, the nation’s biggest city, attending Catholic-
funded schools before studying economics and law at the
University of Sydney and becoming involved in student politics.  Abbott’s shadow treasurer and fellow University of Sydney
alumnus,  Joe Hockey , said in an Australian Broadcasting Corp.
television interview broadcast this month that his leader had
given him a black eye during a  disagreement  over selection of
the university’s rugby team.  At Oxford, Abbott graduated with a Master of Arts in
Politics and Philosophy and represented the university in
boxing. A fitness enthusiast and member of his local surf club,
he is often shown in Australian papers wearing swimming briefs
on the beach, or on early-morning bicycle rides.  “The classic caricature of an Australian is sort of a
bigger than life friendliness, and Tony had that, but what I
think he also had was this genuineness,” said Roger Mastalir,
an American who was in Abbott’s class at Oxford and now is a law
clerk for a federal judge in Sioux City, Iowa.  No Celibacy  “He would go straight to the issue, he would take you on
on an issue, but it was never with a sense of ill will or
belittlement. Aggressive, sure. But it’s the aggressiveness of
an active intellect, not the aggressiveness of trying to squash
people,” Mastalir said.  Abbott joined a seminary in 1984, then ended his bid to
become a priest three years later. It was partly because, he
 told  Channel 9’s Sunday program in 2001, “I just couldn’t see
myself being celibate for the rest of my life and a non-celibate
priest is a very serious betrayal of the greatest cause on
earth.”  After a stint as a journalist, writing for national
publications including the Australian and the Bulletin, along
with the Catholic Weekly, Abbott in 1994 was elected as the
member for Warringah, a safe Liberal Party seat representing the
affluent northern Sydney suburbs where he grew up and resides.  Prison Colony  In May 2011, Abbott  told parliament  that as a husband and
father he understood “the financial pressures on nearly every
Australian household.” Of Gillard, an unwed self-declared
atheist with no children who lives with her hairdresser partner
Tim Mathieson, he said: “Only an election could make an honest
politician of this prime minister.”  A former British Empire prison colony that allowed its
first female political candidate in 1897, Australia this year
ranked 25th in the  World Economic Forum ’s  Global Gender Gap
Index . It measures economic participation, education, health and
political empowerment in 135 countries.  Australia has a female head of state in Governor General
Quentin Bryce; Ged Kearney leads the Australian Council of Trade
Unions; Gail Kelly is chief executive of  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
the nation’s second-biggest bank;  Christine Milne  leads the
Greens, the third-biggest party; and iron ore magnate  Gina Rinehart  is Australia’s richest person.  While Labor’s Anna Burke, who replaced Slipper as House
Speaker this month, said in an ABC interview that Abbott wasn’t
a misogynist, she found Gillard’s speech “pretty spot on.”  ‘Incapable Politicians’  “It’s not capable women Tony Abbott has a problem with,
it’s incapable politicians,” Shadow Cabinet Minister  Sophie
Mirabella , who has known him for more than 20 years, said in an
interview from Melbourne. “Putting aside his deep intellect and
ability to communicate clearly, the most important attributes
are his extraordinary senses of responsibility and humility.”  The coalition is united behind Abbott, who has proved to be
a successful opposition leader, Mirabella said, adding she’s
unconcerned about Abbott’s personal polling levels because it’s
the party’s overall popularity that counts.  Shirley Barrie, who said she’ll vote for Abbott’s coalition
next year, agrees.  “The leadership is only one facet of why you would vote
for the coalition,” she said. “I try to look past the hysteria
that has been created in parliament.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  