-- Labor Department Says Hurricane May Affect Jobs Report
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-10-29T23:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/labor-department-says-hurricane-may-affect-jobs-report.html
The U.S. Labor Department will wait
to gauge the impact of  Hurricane Sandy  before determining the
status of the October jobs report, the last before next week’s
presidential election.  The monthly employment data are scheduled to be released
Nov. 2 at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington . The median forecasts of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg call for payrolls to rise by
125,000 workers in October and for the jobless rate to increase
to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent.  “We will assess the situation when the weather emergency
is over and notify the press and public of any changes at that
time,” Labor Department spokesman Gary Steinberg said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The jobs report may help sway voters trying to decide
between giving President  Barack Obama  another four years in
office or to change course with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney . The Obama administration has pointed to 24 straight
months of job growth as evidence the economy is improving, while
the Romney campaign has said progress is too slow.  Jack Welch , the former chief executive officer of  General
Electric Co. (GE) , suggested the Obama administration had manipulated
the jobs data for political advantage after the September
unemployment rate unexpectedly dropped to the lowest level since
the president took office in January 2009. Alan Krueger,
chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, called
Welch’s comments “irresponsible.”  Prior to September, joblessness had exceeded 8 percent for
43 straight months, the longest such stretch since at least
1948.  Only President  Ronald Reagan  is the only president to have been re-elected
since World War II with unemployment above 6 percent. On
Election Day 1984, the rate was at 7.2 percent, having dropped
almost three percentage points in the previous 18 months.  In a separate statement today, Labor Department spokesman
Carl Fillichio said the agency is “working hard” to ensure
that the data will be released as scheduled.  “It is our intention that Friday will be business as usual
regarding the October employment situation report,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 