-- Malaysian Gold Plans Flourish as Savers Seek Higher Yield
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-10-30T09:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/malaysian-gold-plans-flourish-in-hunt-for-yield-southeast-asia.html
Dadhyanna Tan Mian Lee ditched a 10-
year career in telecommunications in 2009 to become a consultant
with Genneva  Malaysia  Sdn., selling gold to customers with a
plan that she says yielded as much as 24 percent a year.  “My mom would say, she got 3 percent per annum placing her
money into a fixed-deposit facility with a bank,” said Tan, 38.
Genneva also won her father as a customer with its offering of
discretionary monthly “gifts” to purchasers of its product.
That income source is at risk after Malaysian  authorities raided 
Genneva and three other companies this month for suspected
offences such as illegal deposit taking.  A search for better yields to beat the interest rates on
 bank deposits  has boosted the appeal of alternative investments
as diverse as stem-cell storage and birds’ nests, while
unlicensed instruments in the Southeast Asian nation identified
by the Securities Commission doubled to 25 in 2011. The central
bank has refrained from cutting its  benchmark rate  since 2009,
highlighting the risks of keeping borrowing costs too low, and
authorities have moved to contain property prices and prevent
asset bubbles.  “More people are willing to invest in such schemes,”
Sujatha Sekhar Naik, the Securities Commission’s head of
investor affairs and complaints, said last month before Genneva
was raided, referring to the increase in interest in unlicensed
investments. “They are becoming more sophisticated. They are
following the development of society, the markets and what
they’re doing is upping the ante in terms of the types of
schemes they offer.”  Malaysian Raids  The Securities Commission doesn’t regulate gold investments.
Genneva was raided by the Malaysian Police, the Ministry of
Domestic Trade, Cooperatives and Consumerism, the Companies
Commission and the central bank on Oct. 1, the authorities said
in a statement, advising the public to be “ cautious  in
investing their money to avoid becoming victims of activities
that are illegal.” Four days later, raids were carried out on
Pageantry Gold Bhd., Caesar Gold Sdn. and Worldwide Far East Bhd.  Genneva said in an Oct. 24 statement on its website that it
would be “totally wrong” to say the company was engaged in
illegal deposit taking. “Our legal advisers say for the time
being we cannot have any comment on this,” Jamsen Lim,
Genneva’s general manager, said when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Authorities will complete all investigations as quickly as
possible,  Bank Negara Malaysia  Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz told
reporters in Kuala Lumpur today. “We know that there are many
anxious depositors and investors, so will expedite as fast as we
can so that there will be an early conclusion,” she said.  ‘Negative Impact’  Interest in unlicensed investments is on the rise because
of low interest rates and the desire for higher returns as
consumers seek to boost incomes, according to the Securities
Commission’s Sujatha. The regulator warned against 25 unlicensed
activities offered by individuals and companies last year, the
second highest on record since 2003 and up from 13 questionable
operations in 2010, according to  data  on its website.  The hunt for returns is suggested by investment and deposit
movements. After the central bank cut its benchmark rate to a
record-low 2 percent during the 2009 global recession, deposits
growth slowed at the start of 2010 even as the expansion in
nominal gross domestic product accelerated.  Net assets of Malaysian unit trusts have grown more than
twice the pace of bank deposits in five of the last seven years,
according to data from the  central bank  and  Securities
Commission .  “Lower interest rates will have a negative impact on
deposit growth as investors search for higher-yielding assets,”
said Ho Woei Chen, an economist at United Overseas Bank Limited
Ltd. in  Singapore . Still, the “current  interest rate  in
Malaysia is not too low if you take into consideration
 inflation .” Higher property prices in  Asia  have also been
caused by capital inflows and “stronger fundamentals” in the
region, not solely low interest rates, she said.  Inflation Rate  Malaysia’s consumer prices rose 1.3 percent in September
from a year earlier. The central bank’s benchmark rate is 3
percent. The average fixed deposit rate for a 12-month bank
saving is 3.17 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, Choo Chin Thye, a 50-year-old printing business
owner, said he’s turning to stem cells and oil palm to get
better returns than he can garner from deposits.  Since 2008, Choo has put 50,000 ringgit ($16,332) in a plan
by Plentiful Gold-Class Bhd. that directs funds from investors
into oil palm plantations. The move has earned him yearly
returns of more than 8 percent since 2008, he said. He’s also
helped design a plan to invest in stem cell storage equipment,
which he says will offer annual fixed returns of 8 percent for
the first five years after it commences.  Subprime Lesson  “I chose this because it has better yields,” said Choo,
who lives in Kuala Lumpur. “With these schemes, the upside is
technically unlimited.” He points to other ventures investors
can turn to in Malaysia such as one involving rearing the
swiftlets that produce birds’ nests, a popular Asian delicacy.  With lessons from the U.S. subprime crisis remaining in
many policy makers’ minds, concern that keeping interest rates
too low for too long will spur financial risks may have
contributed to Zeti’s hesitation to join neighbors from  China  to
 South Korea  in cutting borrowing costs this year even as the
faltering world economy threatens growth.  “With the low interest rate environment, savers and
investors are going to keep looking for other types of
investments,” said Anthony Dass, chief economist at MIDF Amanah
Investment Bank Bhd. “This will be one of the factors Bank
Negara Malaysia will consider if it wants to cut interest
rates.”  ‘Normalizing’ Rates  Keeping interest rates too low for too long may lead to the
“mispricing of risks” by those who anticipate borrowing costs
will stay low, as well as create asset bubbles, Zeti said in
March 2010, citing signs that people are buying higher-yielding
assets “that pose significant risks.”  She has kept the overnight policy rate at 3 percent since
raising it to that level in May 2011, even as neighbors from
 Thailand  to the  Philippines  eased monetary policy. Bank Negara’s
final decision for this year is due Nov 8. The authorities will
keep rates unchanged until the second quarter of 2013 when a
tightening is forecast, according to the majority of 19
economists in a  Bloomberg News  survey.  “At this point, it is a rate that provides some decent
rate of return on savings and at the same time, it is a rate
that provides access to financing by businesses at relatively
reasonable costs,” Zeti said in an interview this month. “If
you have interest rates that are too low, it provides the
incentive to seek better rates of return, and then in terms of
mispricing of risk, they go into ventures that are of higher
risk. Well, we haven’t seen that.”  Property Curbs  Malaysia “normalized” interest rates in 2010 when the
economy showed clear signs of recovery, becoming one of the
first central banks to start raising rates to prevent the
buildup of financial imbalances, Zeti said. Highlighting that
rationale in its statements gave a signal for businesses and
households that they should consider these risks, she said.  Concern consumers will take on excessive risk and spur
asset bubbles prompted the central bank to tighten mortgage
lending rules in 2010. Prime Minister Najib Razak raised the
real property gains tax on short-term investments in his Sept.
28 budget speech this year.  The benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has climbed
more than 9 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Average condominium prices in the capital,  Kuala
Lumpur , have almost doubled since 2004 to 515,867 ringgit in the
second quarter, according a government  report .  There may be only so much policy makers can do to deter
risky investments.  Genneva has more than 50,000 customers and a turnover of 3
billion ringgit, according to its  website . The authorities said
assets of the companies raided were seized and frozen to
facilitate their investigation into the suspected offences and
to protect the interest of the investors.  “It has brought about sleepless nights,” said Tan, who
gave up her job with a phone company to become a consultant with
Genneva after her father became a customer, saying she was
attracted by the chance to learn about gold trading. The raid
has “shaken our financial ability for the month,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  