-- Tycoon Fridman Boosts VimpelCom Stake in Telenor Fight
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-10-30T10:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/altimo-to-boost-vimpelcom-stake-to-47-9-in-fight-versus-telenor.html
Russian billionaire  Mikhail
Fridman ’s Altimo agreed to increase its voting stake in mobile-
phone operator  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  to 47.9 percent by buying shares
from Ukrainian billionaire Viktor Pinchuk.  Altimo agreed to pay $218 million to buy 123.6 million
preferred shares from Pinchuk’s Bertofan Investments Ltd, it
said in a filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
yesterday. The deal is to be completed in 60 days, according to
the filing.  Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic region’s biggest phone company, and
Altimo have been fighting since February for influence over
VimpelCom, which owns assets in Russia, Italy, Africa and Asia.
Fridman’s company now overtakes Telenor, which holds 43 percent
of VimpelCom’s voting shares. Altimo is satisfied with the
current ownership stakes, Evgeny Dumalkin, vice-president at
Altimo in Moscow, said today by e-mail.  “This deal will free VimpelCom and allow it to restore
corporate governance, remove court claims, service debt
obligations more effectively and resume dividends,” Dumalkin
said. “We hope that this deal will remove the issue of possible
foreign control in VimpelCom and will become a key step to end
the conflict between Russia’s antitrust watchdog and Telenor.”  Russia’s anti-monopoly regulator took legal action this
year to stop Telenor from gaining control of the company, which
owns assets deemed “strategic” by the Russian government.  “It remains to be seen what the Federal Anti-Monopoly
Service will do, but for us it’s confirmation that Altimo is now
in full control of the company,”  Dag Melgaard , a Telenor
spokesman, said today. “It would be sensible” for the
regulator “to drop the lawsuit altogether.”  Telenor shares rose 1.8 percent to 112.5 kroner at 11:50
a.m. in Oslo. VimpelCom shares closed at $10.71 on Oct. 26 in
 New York , up 13 percent this year. The U.S. market was shut
yesterday and will be closed today because of the superstorm
Sandy.  -- Editors: James Kraus, Robert Valpuesta.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  