-- Lang Lang Wears Armani, $36,000 Montblanc
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-10-30T16:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/lang-lang-wears-armani-jackets-36-000-montblanc.html
(Corrects information for concert in second and last
paragraphs of story published Oct. 29.)  Before Lang Lang leaves his  Carnegie
Hall  dressing room for the stage tomorrow night, three things
will be as close to perfect as humanly possible: his
memorization of the music, the tuning of the piano and the cut
of his jacket.  Tomorrow’s concert and dinner for his  Lang Lang
International Music Foundation  are expected to raise about $1
million. (The concert has been rescheduled because of  hurricane
Sandy  to June 3.) Hosted by actor  Alec Baldwin , the evening will
feature Lang Lang performing with violinist Joshua Bell, jazz
vocalist Dee Dee Bridgewater, Danish singer-songwriter Oh Land
and a group of musicians who have received scholarships from the
foundation, which mentors young pianists.  One of the world’s top classical pianists, Lang Lang is
particular about his wardrobe. This season, he turned to
Toronto-based designer Rosemarie Umetsu, who specializes in
dressing actors, singers and maestros.  We spoke about clothes at the Four Seasons Hotel in Houston
following his performance with the city’s orchestra.  Cole: When you walked on stage last night in that shiny
black suit, you looked like a character from “The Matrix.”
What’s it made of?  Lang Lang: Rosemarie Umetsu made it for me, I’m not sure
what the material is but it’s very, very light. She’s making a
suit for the Carnegie Hall concert, a dark blue one, I think.  Armani Shoes  Cole: And the shoes with the interesting pattern?  Lang Lang: Those were made by  Giorgio Armani . Giorgio also
gave me 40 outfits, so I’m pretty set for at least the next two
years. I was so happy! He makes clothes that are most beautiful
and of the foremost quality. The most comfortable shoes are
Ferragamo.  Cole: How many pairs of shoes do you have?  Lang Lang: More than 100. More than half are Armanis. My
father and I have the same shoe size so he wears mine, and some
of them have become his.  Cole: The watch with all the moving parts is by Montblanc?  Lang Lang: Yes, it’s a limited-edition Nicolas Rieussec,
named after the creator of the chronograph. What I like about
watches is the movement, and it has a very complicated movement.
A watch like this is like a work of art.  (The pianist is a cultural ambassador for Montblanc. A
company representative said the model he wears retails for
$36,200.)  Cole: You like to dress casually but smart when you’re not
onstage.  Lang Lang: I’m a big fan of jackets. This is a Spencer Hart
sport coat, custom made. I like a tight fit around the
shoulders. I always have a casual jacket.  Cool Design  Cole: And the jeans?  Lang Lang: Jeans are the best for traveling. I like Armani.
This Diesel pair I’m wearing now has a cool design. Look at the
detail! They fit so perfectly.  The Benefit Concert for the Lang Lang International Music
Foundation has been rescheduled to June 3 at Carnegie Hall’s
Stern Auditorium, Seventh Avenue and 57th Street in  Manhattan .
Information and tickets:  http://www.carnegiehall.org  or +1-212-
247-7800.  (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on  wine , Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  