-- Annie’s Sandy Hopes Sun’ll Come Out Day After Tomorrow
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-10-29T22:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/annie-s-sandy-hopes-sun-ll-come-out-day-after-tomorrow.html
As Sandy the hurricane swept up the
East Coast, Sandy the canine star of “ Annie ” lay on a couch in
upper  Manhattan  with a rope toy.  “She’s been lounging all day,” said Dustin Harder, the
31-year-old handler of the mutt who goes by “Sunny” when not
performing in the Broadway revival. “Great, we have a day off.
Now it’s like, ‘what do we do?’”  That question was uttered by many in New York, with evening
shows canceled Sunday, Monday and Tuesday. Sunday matinees that
did go on suffered, as area residents focused on filling
refrigerators ahead of the storm rather than leisure.  “If you look at grosses, they’re going to be way down,”
said Debbie Bisno, the lead producer of the drama “ Grace ,”
starring  Paul Rudd  and  Michael Shannon , which has until its
January 6, 2013 closing to earn back its roughly $2.5 million
capitalization.  “Every performance counts,” she said. “This is not a
good thing for anybody.”  While Sunday evening and Monday are dark for many shows,
others play different schedules. “The Book of Mormon,” “The
Phantom of the Opera,” “ Chicago ,” “Newsies,” “ Mary Poppins ”
and “Evita” were among productions forced to cancel
performances, according to the Broadway League, a trade
association of producers and theater owners.  Everybody Loses  All shows will lose income from canceled Tuesday
performances.  With public transportation suspended, theater district
mainstays such as Orso, on West 46th Street, were closed.  Angus
McIndoe  was open, but Carlos Ventura, the head chef, said that
at about 2 p.m. Monday he and a lone waiter were covering seven
tables.  “This definitely does hurt,” Ventura said.  During a 19-day stagehands strike in 2007, Karen Hauser,
research director of the League, estimated that the economic
impact of the strike was about $8 million a day.  With Halloween and election day approaching, it’s typically
a “slumpy” time on Broadway, storm or no storm, Bisno said.  “If it were during Christmas, I’d be upset,” she said.
“I’d rather be anxious for just one week.”  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books .  -- Editors: Jeremy Gerard, Daniel Billy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 