-- Apple, Inditex, Tolkien Estate: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-29T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/apple-inditex-tolkien-estate-intellectual-property.html
a federal judge in Albany,  New York ,
has recused himself from the patent suit against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
related to the iPhone 4s’s Siri virtual assistant.  In an Oct. 23 filing, U.S. District Judge Gary L. Sharp
said because of an unspecified interest in Apple, the
“objective ‘appearance of impropriety’ standard” required him
to excuse himself from the case.  The suit was filed Oct. 19 by Dynamic Advances LLC of
Tyler,  Texas , which says it is the exclusive licensee to patent
7,177,798. That patent was issued in February 2007 to  Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute  of Troy, New York, the oldest technical
university in the U.S. According to court papers, the technology
was invented by a professor and a graduate student at
Rensselaer.  In the original complaint, Dynamic Advances claimed that
Siri’s processing of natural-language inputs infringes the
patent, which covers “ a method for processing a natural
language input provided by a user.”  It asked the court to issue an order barring further
infringement and for awards of money damages “in no event less
than a reasonable royalty,” litigation costs and attorney fees.  The case is Dynamic Advances LLC v. Apple Inc., 1:12-cv-
01579-GLS-CPH, U.S. District Court, Northern District of New
York ( Albany ).  Safeco Gets Patent on Underwriting Method Using Voting Status  Safeco Insurance Co., a unit of Boston’s Liberty Mutual
Holding Co., received a patent on a method of insurance
underwriting that uses voting history, according to the database
of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  Patent 8,285,618, which was issued Oct. 9, covers the
inclusion of frequency of voting with factors such as age,
gender, driving record, place of employment and residence
location to determine a potential customer’s risk profile.  According to the patent, “an increase in voting frequency,
such as an instance of recent voting, correlates with a decrease
in risk of insurance loss.” Research indicated that a
“significant correlation exists between having voted at all and
a lower likelihood that the person will claim a loss.”  Another aspect of the patent is a method of adjusting an
insurance agent’s commissions based on the voting status of the
customers that agent obtains. Potential customers’ applications
can be prescreened, based on their voting status, according to
the patent.  Safeco applied for the patent in September 2011, with the
assistance of Alston & Bird LLP of Atlanta.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Inditex Unit Forces Name Change for Retailer of Kids Products  Inditex SA’s Zara unit demanded an Australian retailer of
toys and children’s home furnishings change its name,
 Australia ’s TodayTonight news website  reported .  The founder of the Australian store named her business
“Aara and Lily” after her daughter and niece, according to
TodayTonight.  Zara, a Spanish clothing company, sent the retailer a
cease-and-desist latter demanding the company name and its
Internet domain name of ZaraandLily.com be changed, TodayTonight
reported.  Even though she claims she faces as much as A$15,000
($15,560) in rebranding costs, store owner Shelly Tilbrook says
she’s changing her company name to  Peach and Pear Kids ,
according to the news website.  Tolkien Estate Tells Academic to Stop Using ‘Hobbit’ Description  The estate of the late author JRR Tolkien has told a New
Zealand academic he can’t use the word “hobbit” to describe
ancient miniature humanoids, 3News New Zealand  reported .  Brent Alloway, a volcanologist from Victoria University,
was told he couldn’t title his lecture about the ancient humans
of Indonesia’s Flores Island “The Other Hobbit,” according to
3News.  He told 3News his fellow scientists had used the term since
the  Homo florensiensis  species was discovered in 2003, at about
the same time that  Peter Jackson ’s “ Lord of the Rings ” film
was released.  By coincidence, the average height of the Homo
florensiensis is 3 feet, 6 inches high, the same height as
Tolkien’s Hobbit people, 3News New Zealand reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Sony, Northrop Grumman Sued Over William Faulkner Quotations  Sony Pictures Classics Inc. was sued for copyright
infringement by the holder of the literary rights to the works
by the late  William Faulkner .  The suit, filed Oct. 25 in  Mississippi  federal court,
claims lines from Faulkner’s “Requiem for a Nun” are used
incorrectly and without authorization in “ Midnight in Paris ,”
a 2011 Sony film directed by  Woody Allen .  According to court papers, a character played by  Owen
Wilson  is transported from the present era to the 1920s, where
he has conversations with  Pablo Picasso ,  Salvador Dali ,  Ernest
Hemingway , and  F. Scott Fitzgerald . In describing his
experiences, the character says “The past is not dead! Actually
it’s not even past. You know who said that? Faulkner.”  The correct quote, the Faulkner rights holder said, is
“The past is never dead. It’s not even past.”  According to the complaint, Sony didn’t seek or receive
permission to use the lines in the film. Faulkner Literary
Rights LLC, which is based in Charlottesville, Virginia, said
it’s harmed by Sony’s actions, and that the use of the quote is
likely to cause the public to assume falsely that a connection
exists between Faulkner and Sony.  It asked the court for an order barring further
distribution of the film, together with awards of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees. Additionally, it seeks an
award of profits attributable to the alleged infringement.  Sony told  Deadline Hollywood that the suit is frivolous and
that its use of Faulkner’s words fell into copyright law’s
“fair use’ provision.  A second Faulkner-related suit was filed Oct. 26 in federal
court also in Mississippi. In this case, Faulkner Literary
Rights sued Northrop Grumman Corp. and the Washington Post over
the use of a Faulkner quote in an advertisement that ran in the
newspaper July 4, 2011.  That quote, “We must be free, not because we claim
freedom, but because we practice it,” is taken from a 1956
Faulkner essay, “On Fear: The South in Labor,” according to
court papers. The Faulkner rights holder claims that quote is
also used without permission.  The case against Sony is Faulkner Literary Rights LLC v.
Sony Pictures Classics Inc., 3:12-cv-00100-MPM-SSA, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Mississippi. The case
against Northrop Grumman is Faulkner Literary Rights LLC v.
Northrop Grumman Corp, 3:12-cv-00732-HTW-LRA, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Mississippi (Jackson).  Electronic Arts Seeks Dismissal of Zynga’s Counterclaims  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the second-biggest U.S. video-game
publisher, asked a federal judge to dismiss a claim by  Zynga
Inc. (ZNGA)  that its copyright infringement lawsuit violates a year-old
agreement between the companies.  Electronic Arts filed suit in  San Francisco  in August,
claiming Zynga’s “The Ville” infringes copyrights for “The
Sims Social,” an Electronic Arts game that runs on  Facebook (FB) 
Inc.’s social network. Electronic Arts said in its complaint
that senior executives who left for Zynga had details about
“The Sims Social” strategy and development.  Zynga, the biggest developer of games played on Facebook,
countersued last month, seeking to bar Electronic Arts from
threatening litigation or interfering with its hiring. It called
the copyright claims meritless and said Electronic Arts’ suit
breached the terms of last year’s settlement.  According to the Oct. 26  filing by  Redwood City ,
California-based Electronic Arts, the companies arrived at a
“confidential settlement” on Sept. 21, 2011, in which
Electronic Arts released claims related to Zynga’s recruitment
of current or former Electronic Arts employees in exchange for
San Francisco-based Zynga’s agreement to not solicit other
employees.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for Zynga, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on the Oct. 26 filing.  The settlement only covered claims through September 2011
and the more recent complaint brings copyright claims that fall
“far outside” the 2011 agreement, Electronic Arts said today.  Zynga also claimed in its countersuit that Electronic Arts
Chief Executive Officer John Riccitiello instructed company
lawyers to get an agreement from Zynga prohibiting future hiring
of Electronic Arts employees as part of an “anticompetitive and
unlawful scheme” that violates  California  law.  The “litigation privilege” prohibits statements made in
connection with legal actions from being used as grounds for a
lawsuit, Electronic Arts argued.  “Alleged threats to sue Zynga in connection with its
solicitation, recruitment and hiring of Electronic Arts
employees were absolutely privileged,” according to the filing.  The case is Electronic Arts v. Zynga, 12-4099, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 