-- Argentine Bonds Post Biggest Two-Day Tumble Since October 2008
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-10-29T22:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/argentine-bonds-plunge-most-on-record-after-debt-case-setback.html
Argentine bonds posted their biggest
two-day plunge in four years as JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of
America Corp., and Barclays Plc cut their recommendations on the
debt following a U.S. court decision favoring holders of
defaulted securities.  The government’s bonds due 2033 sank 1.5 cents to 68.5
cents on the dollar today, pushing yields to 12.85 percent,
after sinking a record 10 cents on Oct. 26, according to pricing
provided by JPMorgan. The two-day tumble, the biggest since
October 2008, followed a U.S. appeals court ruling that blocks
 Argentina  from making payments on securities it restructured in
2005 and 2010 while refusing to pay holders of the bonds still
in default.  Bank of America and Barclays lowered Argentine debt to
underweight from marketweight today.  JPMorgan  moved Argentina to
marketweight, six weeks after raising the nation’s bonds to
overweight.  “We see a period of uncertainty ahead,” Vladimir Werning,
an analyst at JPMorgan in New York, wrote in the report. “Our
concerns over the risk this litigation poses to Argentine
performing bondholders remains large.”  The cost to protect Argentine debt against default for five
years soared 2.5 percentage points to 15.3 percent after surging
3.3 percentage points on Oct. 26, when the court published its
decision. The increase was the biggest among all government debt
in the world, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Low Volume  Trading in Argentine dollars bonds was about 10 percent of
normal levels today as  Hurricane Sandy  prompted some U.S.
traders to stay at home, according to Alberto Bernal, the head
of fixed-income research at Bulltick Capital Markets in Miami.
The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommended trading in dollar-denominated fixed-income
securities end at noon in New York today and remain closed
tomorrow.  “With this liquidity, no one is going to be able to do
anything but watch their prices go down,” said Jane Brauer, a
New York-based debt analyst at Bank of America.  Argentine securities linked to economic growth also fell
1.1 percent to 11.10 cents after tumbling 9.7 percent on Oct.
26. The benchmark Merval stock index declined 2 percent compared
with a 0.2 percent decline in  Brazil ’s Bovespa index.  Argentina will appeal the U.S. court ruling to the Supreme
Court, state news agency Telam reported Oct. 26, citing Finance
Secretary Adrian Cosentino. Press officials at the  Economy
Ministry  didn’t return telephone calls made by Bloomberg News
seeking comment today.  ‘Vulture Funds’  The court’s decision was a blow to President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who has called defaulted bond holders
“vulture funds” and vowed not to pay them even after an
Argentina naval ship was detained in Ghana Oct. 2 at the request
of Elliott Management Corp.’s NML Capital Fund. Elliott leads a
group of holdout creditors who rejected the country’s
restructuring offerings of about 30 cents on the dollar
following its record $95 billion bond default in 2001.  The government hasn’t sold bonds overseas since the default
as it fights the lawsuits from the holdout creditors. The
restructurings were accepted by holders of about 92 percent of
all defaulted debt.  Without access to global credit markets, Fernandez has
counted on restrictions on dollar purchases and soybean exports
to sustain central bank reserves, which she taps to pay off
existing debt. Reserves fell to $45 billion at the end of last
month from $48.6 billion a year earlier.  ‘Dead’ Economic Model  Argentina’s gross domestic product will expand 2.8 percent
this year after growth of 8.9 percent in 2011, according to the
median estimate of 24 analysts, while economists estimate annual
inflation is more than 20 percent. The array of challenges now
facing Fernandez show that “the economic model as we knew it is
dead,” according to Jose Luis Espert, an economist who runs the
Espert & Asociados consulting company in Buenos Aires.  In the latest legal ruling, a three-judge panel at the U.S.
Appeals Court in New York upheld orders issued by U.S. District
Judge Thomas Griesa in  Manhattan . The court sent the case back
to Griesa to clarify how a payment formula set by the judge is
intended to work and to determine how the orders apply to
intermediary banks and other third parties.  Argentina may make payments on restructured sovereign debt
in  Europe  or other countries rather than the U.S. to avoid
paying holders of defaulted bonds, Buenos Aires-based newspaper
Ambito Financiero reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Argentina, which is rated B by Standard & Poor’s, or five
levels below investment grade, claims that upholding Griesa’s
rulings would undermine the debt restructurings, spark a
financial crisis in the country and make it impossible for other
nations to restructure their debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  