-- Artemis Wins Trial Over California $4 Billion Junk Bonds
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-10-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/artemis-wins-trial-over-california-4-billion-junk-bonds.html
Francois Pinault ’s Artemis SA
holding company prevailed at a trial over $4.33 billion in
profits and interest sought by the  California  insurance
commissioner from a junk-bond portfolio sold to French investors
in 1991.  A federal jury in Los Angeles yesterday rejected the claim
that if not for a conspiracy by the French investor group, then-
Insurance Commissioner John Garamendi, the conservator of
Executive Life Insurance Co., would have accepted a bid in 1991
for the insolvent insurer’s assets from a group of guaranty
associations that would have kept the profits from a junk-bond
portfolio in the company.  “We are very thankful for all the jurors’ hard work,”
Robert Weigel, Artemis’s lawyer, said outside the courtroom.
“We’re confident they came to the right result.”  The case, which first went to trial in 2005, dates back to
the sale of failed Executive Life, at one point the largest
California life insurer, and its junk-bond portfolio to a unit
of Credit Lyonnais SA and a group of French and Swiss insurers
organized and secretly backed by the French bank to avoid
regulatory restrictions on the bank owning an insurer.  French Investors  Artemis, the company through which Pinault controls  PPR (PP)  and
its luxury goods brands including Gucci and  Yves Saint Laurent ,
acquired part of the junk-bond portfolio in 1992 and a
controlling stake in the rehabilitated insurance company.
Artemis is the only one of the French defendants that didn’t
settle with the insurance commissioner.  California claimed the profits that the French investors
made from the junk bonds, which “went through the roof” after
Garamendi sold them for $3.25 billion to Credit Lyonnais’s Altus
unit, rightfully should have gone to Executive Life policy
holders and the guaranty associations that made up shortfalls
for some of the insured.  “I respect the service performed by the jury who served on
this case, though I disagree with its findings,”  Dave Jones ,
the current Insurance Commissioner, said in a statement. “We
are considering all options in the wake of this disappointing
decision.”  Executive Life  Lawyers for Artemis said during the trial that Garamendi
never would have accepted a bid that would have kept the junk
bonds, which caused Executive Life to collapse in the first
place, in the rehabilitated insurer.  Garamendi in 1991 rejected the bid by the National
Organization of Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Associations,
or NOLHGA, because it would have left the policy holders exposed
to the “toxic” junk bonds, Artemis lawyers said. The Altus bid
was the only bid that offered cash for the junk bonds and took
the risk out of the insurer, they said.  Lawyers representing Jones said during the trial that, had
Garamendi known that Credit Lyonnais was lying to him and
secretly buying the insurance company as well as the  junk bonds ,
he would have accepted the NOLHGA bid.  Jury Instruction  Arthur Shartsis, a lawyer for insurance commissioner, said
after the verdict was read that he would consider an appeal.  “The whole thing turned on the jury instructions,”
Shartsis said outside the courtroom. “They were allowed to
assume away the existence of the fraud.”  U.S. District Judge Gary Klausner said after the verdict
was read that he was inclined to reinstate the restitution that
the judge presiding over the 2005 trial had awarded the
insurance commissioner and that was overturned by the court of
appeals three years later.  The appeals court vacated the $241 million restitution
award because it was based on a jury verdict that required a
retrial. The appeals court said the trial judge could reinstate
the award “if warranted” after the retrial.  Klausner ordered both sides to file briefs on the
restitution including what amounts they thought were
appropriate.  The case is Garamendi v. Altus Finance SA, 99-02829, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  