-- Clinton Looks Ahead as State Department Era Winds Down
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-10-29T18:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/as-her-time-at-state-department-ends-clinton-looks-ahead.html
Images of the charred U.S. mission
in Benghazi, Libya, flashed around the world as U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  entered the Treaty Room in Washington
and spoke about the deaths of four Americans there.  “Today, many Americans are asking, indeed I asked myself,
how could this happen?” Clinton said. “How could this happen
in a country we helped liberate in a city we helped save from
destruction? This question reflects just how complicated and at
times how confounding the world can be.”  As she visits Algeria and the Balkans on what may be one of
her last overseas trips as the nation’s top diplomat, Clinton is
also confronting her legacy, and whether it will be framed by
the Benghazi tragedy or her vision that American foreign policy
in the 21st Century must utilize social media, coalition-
building and export promotion as well as military power.  “It’s no longer enough to be strong,” Clinton  wrote  in
July in the New Statesman. “Great powers also have to be savvy
and persuasive. To do that, we need to expand our foreign policy
toolbox, integrate every asset and partner, and fundamentally
change the way we do business.”  She has been one of the world’s most recognizable figures
for more than 20 years. She turned 65 on Oct. 26, and the end of
this phase of her public life is prompting questions about
whether the next one might include a longer stay at the State
Department or another run for the White House.  While her energy and endurance -- more than 918,000 miles
to 112 countries over 384 travel days counting her current trip
-- in the face of personal and political trials have made her
one of the nation’s most admired figures, her tenure now will be
examined for lasting accomplishments.  ‘Disturbing Events’  Her longer view, though, is obscured by the short attention
span and limited peripheral vision of the Internet Age, and by
the partisan politics of the presidential campaign.  “With the Arab Spring came a great deal of hope that there
would be a change towards more moderation, an opportunity for
greater participation on the part of women in public life and in
economic life in the Middle East,” said Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  in the Oct. 22 debate with President
 Barack Obama . “But instead we’ve seen in nation after nation a
number of disturbing events.”  Clinton critics, such as Hoover Institution senior fellow
Fouad Ajami, don’t see how Clinton’s extensive  travels  have
advanced U.S. interests. Clyde Prestowitz, president of the
Economic Strategy Institute in Washington, questions her shift
of resources to Asia and a trans-Pacific free-trade accord she
promotes. Others say a control-conscious White House has shut
her out of some top-drawer policy decisions on Iraq, Afghanistan
and the war on terror.  Rebuilding Ties  Clinton admirers, such as  Leslie Gelb , a former State
Department and Pentagon official, say the negative reviews
ignore more than 717 White House meetings, her push for military
intervention in Libya and how she has handled the strained U.S.
relationship with Pakistan. They say the miles she travels --
more than 30,000 to Russia and the South Pacific in September
alone -- are an investment in rebuilding ties essential to U.S.
interests.  The debate reflects a fundamental division in Washington
and beyond over what constitutes American power in the 21st
Century, how it’s evolving and how it should be wielded as other
countries grow stronger and new players arise.  New players include state-backed  hedge funds  along with
cybercrime and cyberespionage, transnational threats such as
piracy and climate change and the unpredictable “hive-mind” of
restive populations linked by social media.  ‘Power Drivers’  Clinton thinks the “real power drivers” now go beyond
military strength to include social media such as Menlo Park,
California-based  Facebook Inc. (FB) , said Jake Sullivan, the State
Department’s director of policy planning. They also include
managing the resentments of millions of unemployed young people
worldwide, using aid to help stabilize shaky nuclear powers such
as Pakistan and building coalitions, he said.  Clinton and her advisers say that through new partnerships,
old alliances, and innovative tools, not just military might,
they aim to shape  U.S. foreign policy  for many years.  Those represent “major changes in the way State does
business,” Sullivan said. “The results of that will be
measured over a generation. They won’t be measured over four
years.”  The new global dynamics, Clinton says, require that U.S.
power be used in more creative ways. That vision will shape her
legacy long after news cycles cease to be dominated by the
Benghazi attack, her aides say. Clinton’s longer view is shared
by Richard Armitage, who was deputy secretary of State under
President  George W. Bush .  ‘Smart Power’  “When Mrs. Clinton came into office, it had been quite
clear that the U.S. had been overly dependent on our hard power
and neglected other aspects of our power, whether it’s sports,
trade, education exchanges,” Armitage said in an interview.  Clinton understands that “smart power” means “we’ve got
to be active not just with servicemen and women, but we’ve got
to be active with our ideas and values,” Armitage said.  If persuasion is one of Clinton’s yardsticks for success,
though, it’s been a tough three and a half years.  Iran continues to pursue a suspected nuclear weapons
program in the face of U.S.-led sanctions, heightening tensions
between the White House and Israeli leaders, who say the window
for diplomacy and sanctions is closing.  Longstanding efforts to induce North Korea to renounce its
nuclear program have failed so far. The 2009 attempt to
“reset” relations with Russia hasn’t dispelled persistent
friction over issues such as missile defense and the conflict in
Syria.  Modest Progress  In Pakistan, billions of dollars in aid and three years of
pushing leaders to crack down on the militants who target NATO
troops in Afghanistan have produced only modest progress.  Afghanistan remains bedeviled by the Taliban, and State
Department efforts to curb corruption, improve governance and
better the lot of women have moved slowly, officials
acknowledge.  The Middle East peace process between Israel and the
Palestinians is moribund. In Iraq, ethnic and sectarian violence
and Iran’s new influence undermine administration claims that
the U.S. has left the country stable enough to thrive on its
estimated 143 billion barrels of  oil reserves .  There’s no clear administration strategy for coping with
unrest in nations such as Syria, Libya, Egypt and Tunisia.
Traditional allies such as  Saudi Arabia  and Jordan are deeply
unsettled by the U.S. backing for Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster.  ‘Highly Centralized’  “I’ve seen plenty of Gulf Arabs nervous, but never more so
when we were perceived to have thrown Mubarak under the bus,”
said veteran diplomat Strobe Talbott, a member of Clinton’s
advisory board. “It was not a thing of beauty diplomatically.”  Clinton is working within an administration that Gelb calls
“highly centralized” in its decision-making. National Security
Council spokesman Tommy Vietor’s e-mailed description is that
“foreign policy decisions are ultimately made by the president,
but this is very much a team sport.”  Gelb and others say Clinton has great freedom abroad and
within her agency. She’s reorganized the State Department and
forged closer ties to the Pentagon by adding more personnel
exchanges. She’s had State work closely with the Treasury
Department and the U.S. Trade Representative, including on China
policy and boosting American exports.  Promoting Trade  Continuing a trend that the first  Bush administration 
started at the end of the  Cold War , she has pushed U.S.
embassies to make trade and promoting American business a
greater part of diplomacy, taken over some tasks that used to be
Commerce Department business and hired a chief economist.  Because Clinton sees social media as a way for the U.S. to
bypass leaders and speak directly to people overseas, she has
stressed the importance of new media and information technology.
Her department and its embassies now have 195 accounts with San
Francisco-based Twitter Inc. and 290 Facebook pages with 15
million subscribers and tens of millions more visitors.  Her department has spent $75 million on training and
technology contracts for entrepreneurs to help activists in
repressive countries communicate and avoid detection. In August,
the department challenged the public to submit ideas on how
smart phones can support arms-control efforts.  Complex Reality  Zbigniew Brzezinski , U.S. national security adviser under
President  Jimmy Carter , credits Clinton for her focus on the
“new and very difficult, complex dispersed reality of power,”
which he said differs from “the previous century, where the
enemy was clearly defined and the challenge was self-evident.”  Many of Clinton’s themes came together in a January 2011
address to the Arab world in Qatar, where she told leaders they
had to heed the frustrations of unemployed youth and the calls
for greater political freedom, opportunity and economic reform.  “In too many places, in too many ways, the region’s
foundations are sinking into the sand,” she said. It was less
than a month after a Tunisian fruit vendor had set himself on
fire, and a day before the country’s president was ousted. Two
weeks later, protests in Egypt erupted.  Even supporters such as Jessica Mathews, president of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington,
acknowledge that Clinton has no major foreign policy
achievements -- no deal with Iran or North Korea, no Mideast
peace agreement.  Still, said State Department official Sullivan: “When
people look back 10 or 15 years from now, they’ll say, OK, she
saw the trends coming and she did something about them.”  Black Swans  Some of Clinton’s foreign policy challenges have erupted
unexpectedly -- so-called Black Swans in financial slang. At
times, veteran diplomat Talbott said, there have been so many
that they have seemed more “like a black cloud.”  Clinton applies an intense work ethic to this cloud, using
long hours on flights to work through encyclopedia-thick
briefing binders or confer with Washington and other capitals.
One former aide confessed he often found reasons to fly to
foreign events early to get a respite from the nonstop work on
the secretary’s plane.  The relentless travel is about “building personal
relationships,” said Anne-Marie Slaughter, Clinton’s former
director of policy planning, now a professor at  Princeton
University  in New Jersey.  Retail Politics  That attitude is the legacy of more than 40 years in retail
politics with her husband, former President  Bill Clinton , also a
master at creating networks, showing up and showing you care.  The secretary of state’s investment of time and energy in
Southeast Asia has “made a difference,” particularly in the
opening of Myanmar, where former political prisoner Aung San Suu Kyi now sits in parliament, said Mathews.  After the crisis over blind Chinese dissident  Chen Guangcheng , Clinton told  Bloomberg Radio  that a resolution was
possible because of work she and others had done with China to
“create a level of personal relationships and understandings
between individuals and our government institutions.”  Personal ties don’t always yield benefits, though. Clinton
has known  Hamid Karzai  since her days as a senator from New
York, yet the Afghan president has sometimes been a prickly
partner, at one point accusing the West of fraud in his
country’s elections and threatening to join the Taliban.  Still, Clinton sees value in dialogues she created with
India, Brazil and China, and in forming an alliance of small
Southeast Asian countries along the lower Mekong River.  Those networks will last long after Clinton is gone, her
aides say. “These are the types of things it will now take an
affirmative decision to turn off,” said  Andrew Shapiro , the
State Department’s assistant secretary for political-military
affairs. “And why would you?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  