-- Asia Stocks Drop on Earnings; Hurricane Shuts U.S. Market
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-10-29T10:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/asian-stocks-rise-as-resource-shares-climb-after-u-s-gdp.html
Asian  stocks  dropped for a second
day after companies including Honda Motor Co. reported earnings
that disappointed investors and Hong Kong developers slid on a
new real estate tax targeting foreign buyers.  Trading volume was below average across Asia as the
Securities and Exchange Commission canceled all U.S. stock
trading today as Hurricane Sandy barrels toward  New York  City.
The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  declined 0.2 percent to 121.36 as of
7:24 p.m. in  Tokyo  after earlier gaining 0.3 percent.  Honda,  Japan ’s third-largest carmaker, tumbled 4.7 percent
after cutting its full-year profit forecast. New World
Development Co. led Hong Kong’s property companies lower,
dropping 6.4 percent. LG Display Co. climbed 7.6 percent in
 Seoul  after posting its first profit in more than a year.  “Earnings have been downgraded quite a lot over the past
few months, but I think they hit the level where perhaps the
downgrades have stabilized.” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based
head of Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management
(Asia) Ltd., which oversees about $8 billion.  Hong Kong is
“trying to slow speculative activity in the property market.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average swung between losses and gains
before closing little changed on trading volume 23 percent below
the 30-day average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.1 percent, with 34
percent fewer shares trading hands than on average.  South Korea’s Kospi Index added less than 0.1 percent,
while the Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.4 percent and Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 0.2 percent.  Hurricane Sandy  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7
percent. The closure of equity trading in the U.S. may extend
through tomorrow. Risks posed by Hurricane Sandy, expected to
come ashore in southern New Jersey and potentially affect 60
million people, were deemed too great to require workers to
travel.  “You’ll expect to see limited volumes over Monday and
potentially Tuesday,” said Steve Goldman, managing director at
Kapstream Capital in Sydney. “The storm, depending on how bad
it is, could take markets down.”  Honda slid 4.7 percent to 2,399 yen, the biggest drop in a
month. The carmaker cut its full-year profit forecast after
Chinese consumers shunned Japanese brands amid a territorial
dispute between Asia’s two-biggest economies.  Hong Kong imposed its first property tax on overseas buyers
as U.S. monetary easing and record-low interest rates boost the
risk of a housing bubble. Non-local and corporate buyers will
have to pay a 15 percent tax upon purchase, Financial Secretary
John Tsang said on Oct. 26.  Tax Hit  New World Development, which gets 46 percent of its revenue
in the city, dropped 6.4 percent to HK$12.08. Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. lost 5.1 percent to HK$106.10. Henderson Land
Development Ltd. retreated 6.4 percent to HK$53.25.  LG Display (034220)  advanced 7.6 percent to 32,450 won, the highest
level in 16 months. The company reported net income of 158.2
billion won ($144 million) on Oct. 26, following four quarters
of losses as sales of flat-screen televisions fell globally.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., Asia’s biggest oil
refiner, added 2.9 percent to HK$8.25. The company known as
Sinopec posted better-than-expected third-quarter profit after
the state raised retail fuel prices twice and higher
petrochemical sales helped earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  