-- Astral Foods Says Mozambique a Place to Chase Chicken Investment
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-10-29T09:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/astral-foods-says-mozambique-a-place-to-chase-chicken-investment.html
Astral Foods Ltd. (ARL)  said  Mozambique  is
a country to chase poultry investments as  South Africa ’s largest
chicken producer by sales diversifies into neighboring markets
to avoid import quotas and benefit from higher profit margins.  “The Mozambican government knows of our efforts to invest
in the country,” Chief Executive Officer Chris Schutte said in
an interview on Oct. 25. “It is a country where you can chase
investments” and chicken eaten is a fraction of South  Africa .  The company, based in  Pretoria , on Oct. 5 opened a hatchery
45 kilometers (28 miles) southwest of Mozambique’s capital city
Maputo after owning a feed mill in the country since 2000.
Astral also owns a feed mill and hatchery in  Zambia .  “These countries have political stability, double-digit
economic growth and there’s people,” Schutte said.  South Africans  eat an average 36 kilograms (79 pounds) a
year of chicken compared with about 7 kilograms in Mozambique
and 12 kilograms in Zambia,  South African Poultry Association 
Chief Executive Officer Kevin Lovell said on Oct. 26. At the
same time South Africa’s poultry producers are facing increased
competition at home from Brazilian and European imports.  Astral cut 150 jobs in August and froze pay for its 12,000
employees Oct. 18 as it also struggles with higher feed costs.
Yellow corn and soy cake, a by-product of crushing soybeans,
accounts for about 74 percent of the company’s costs. About 20
percent of chicken eaten in South Africa is imported.  Import Tariffs  The government in February imposed extra import tariffs of
as much as 63 percent on shipments of some cuts of chicken after
saying initial information showed  Brazil  was dumping products in
Africa’s biggest economy as well as neighboring African nations.  Setting up operations in other countries, sourcing and
mixing chicken feed, building hatcheries and broilers and
constructing abattoirs, can take years, Schutte said.  “Some of the small-farmers who supply our Zambian feed
mill deliver their corn in wheelbarrows,” Schutte said. Road
quality, to get grain to the mills, and the volatility of
African currencies are some of the risks of entry, he said.  Astral, which said Oct. 16 it sees full-year earnings per
share down 30 percent to 35 percent, declined for a 14th day,
sliding as much as 1 percent to 92 rand, the lowest since May
13, 2009, and was at 93.35 rand by 11:20 a.m. in Johannesburg.
It’s the longest losing streak since it began trading in 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  