-- Aussie Dollar Falls as U.S. Election Polls Narrow, Stocks Slide
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-10-29T05:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/aussie-falls-amid-concern-over-u-s-elections-greek-debt-talks.html
Australia ’s dollar fell as declines
in Asian shares and concern over the outcome of the U.S.
presidential election sapped demand for higher-yielding assets.  New Zealand’s dollar weakened against most major peers as
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Republican  Mitt Romney  entered
the final stretch of the presidential contest, where opinion
polls have tightened. Losses in the so-called Aussie were
limited as traders reduced bets that the Reserve Bank of
Australia will cut interest rates at a meeting next week.  “If we get polls that still show that Romney and Obama
look to be pretty neck-and-neck, then I think that leads to
uncertainty,” said Ray Attrill, Sydney-based global co-head of
currency strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. “There is
potential for some negative price action in the risk market. In
that case I can see the Aussie heading back down towards
$1.03.”  The Australian dollar dropped 0.2 percent to $1.0354 as of
4:19 p.m. in Sydney from the close on Oct. 26. It bought 82.46
yen from 82.62. The New Zealand dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, slid
0.2 percent to 82.09 U.S. cents. The currency weakened 0.2
percent to 65.40 yen.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares declined 0.3 percent
today, following a 0.9 percent loss on Oct. 26. Australian  bonds
gained  for a second day, pushing the yield on 10-year debt down
by five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.19 percent.  The closeness of the U.S. presidential race has intensified
the contest between Obama and Romney for battleground states.
The nine states, such as Iowa and  Ohio , where both campaigns say
the election will be decided, account for 110 of the 270
Electoral College votes needed to win the presidency.  Tight Race  An Ohio Newspaper Association poll released yesterday
showed Obama ahead among those who’ve already voted, according
to the Cincinnati Inquirer newspaper. At the same time, the poll
of 1,015 likely voters from Oct. 18 to Oct. 23 showed Obama and
Romney tied at 49 percent support in Ohio, a swing state with 18
electoral votes.  The U.S. securities industry canceled equity trading on all
markets today, moving to protect workers as Hurricane Sandy
headed toward New York City with 70-mile-per-hour winds and the
threat of an 11-foot sea surge. The shutdown, announced by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, may extend through Oct. 30
and followed an earlier decision by the  New York  Stock Exchange
to close floor trading.  Overnight index swaps data compiled by Bloomberg indicate
about a 65 percent chance that the Reserve Bank of Australia
will cut its key rate to 3 percent from 3.25 percent at its Nov.
6 meeting, down from almost 100 percent odd seen a week ago. The
odds have fallen since data last week showed a faster-than-
expected gain in the nation’s consumer prices.  Net Longs  Futures traders increased bets that the Aussie will gain
against the U.S. dollar for the first time in four weeks,
figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading
Commission show.  The  difference  in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a drop was 45,651 on Oct. 23, compared
with the so-called net longs of 38,444 a week earlier.  “The market is 50-50 about what’s going to happen next
week,” said NAB’s Attrill. “The Aussie will get some support
if we see confidence in the rate cut further reduce this week.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  