-- Australia Gives Wade Test Cricket Wicketkeeper’s Job Over Haddin
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-29T02:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/australia-names-12-man-test-cricket-squad-to-face-south-africa.html
Matthew Wade was picked ahead of
Brad Haddin as  Australia ’s wicketkeeper for next week’s series-
opening cricket Test against top-ranked South Africa.  Wade, 24, was named today in a 12-man squad for the match
in Brisbane that also included four fast bowlers in Mitchell
Starc, James Pattinson, Ben Hilfenhaus and  Peter Siddle .  Haddin, 35, was omitted after leading the Sydney Sixers to
victory in the Champions League Twenty20 tournament yesterday.
The decision of the five-man selection panel to go with Wade
doesn’t necessarily signal the end of Haddin’s 43-Test career,
according to the national selector John Inverarity.  “Nobody knows what the future will bring but he’s very
much in contention,” Inverarity said at a televised news
conference. “If there was an injury he could come back very
quickly. He’s certainly a very fit 35-year-old.”  Wade became the wicketkeeper for Australia’s three-Test
series against the West Indies in April after Haddin left the
tour because of family reasons. Wade’s 106 in the third Test was
the only century by an Australian during the series.  There were no changes to the top-six batting order as  Ed
Cowan  was retained as an opener alongside David Warner. Nathan
Lyon was chosen as the specialist spin bowler.  The squad will assemble in Brisbane on Nov. 5 ahead of the
first Test beginning Nov. 9. The second Test begins in Adelaide
on Nov. 22 with the series finale in Perth starting eight days
later.  AUSTRALIA SQUAD: Michael Clarke (captain), Shane Watson, Ed
Cowan, Ben Hilfenhaus, Michael Hussey, Nathan Lyon, James
Pattinson, Ricky Ponting, Peter Siddle, Mitchell Starc, Matthew
Wade, David Warner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  