-- Hawker to Be Taken Over By Creditors After Sale Collapses
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-10-29T15:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/hawker-to-be-taken-over-by-creditors-after-sale-collapses.html
Hawker Beechcraft Inc., the bankrupt
business-jet maker partly owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
will be taken over by creditors under an amended restructuring
plan after a sale to Superior Aviation Beijing Co. collapsed.  The plan will swap debt for equity and give ownership to
creditors, according to court papers. Senior creditors include
Centerbridge Partners, Angelo Gordon & Co., Sankaty Advisors,
and Capital Research & Management, according to a person
familiar with the  capital structure  who is not authorized to
speak on behalf of lenders.  The post-bankruptcy company would focus on planes including
civilian turboprops and military trainers. A review of strategic
alternatives for the Hawker jet line is under way, and that
business may close if no satisfactory bids are received, the
company said last week.  “The company will have shedded $2.5 billion of debt during
this bankruptcy,” Hawker Beechcraft Chairman Bill Boisture said
today in Orlando, Florida. “The primary change in my view will
be a very aggressive, focused effort on those most profitable
product lines going forward.”  Hawker, owned by Goldman and  Onex Corp. (OCX) , filed for Chapter
11 protection in May, citing lower demand for private jets after
the recession and curbs on U.S. defense spending. A $1.79
billion stalking horse bid by Superior for most of the company
collapsed Oct. 18, leaving Wichita, Kansas-based Hawker to
pursue a new stand-alone exit plan as the renamed Beechcraft
Corp.  The approximately $921.6 million in secured debt
outstanding under the senior credit facility will be converted
into 81.1 percent of common stock in the reorganized company,
the company said in court papers.  Hawker said in the filing that the plan is supported by
holders of a “substantial majority” of the debt under the
senior credit facility, the holders of a majority in principal
amount of senior notes, and the committee representing unsecured
creditors.  Beechcraft would concentrate on turboprops, piston-engine
planes and special mission and trainer/attack aircraft for
military uses, along with its parts, maintenance and repair
businesses.  The case is In re Hawker Beechcraft Inc., 12-11873,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  