-- Correct: Bakken Oil Plunges as East Coast Rail Shipments Slowed
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-10-30T16:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/bakken-oil-plunges-as-east-coast-rail-shipments-slowed-by-sandy.html
(Corrects scale of Bakken crude oil BNSF ships in fourth
paragraph of story published Oct. 29.)   Bakken oil’s discount to West Texas
Intermediate plunged to its lowest level in almost four months
before  Hurricane Sandy ’s landfall, as East Coast refineries that
process the grade cut output and railways slowed shipments.  Bakken fell $6.50 to a $10-a-barrel-discount against WTI at
3:12 p.m.  New York  time, its widest discount since July 5,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Shut-downs affecting
eastern railways are slowing Bakken rail shipments, a
spokeswoman for western train operator BNSF said.  “There are some issues getting crudes to the eastern
railroads,” said Krista York-Wooley, a BNSF Railway Co.
spokeswoman. “They have had to shut down certain routes.”  York-Wooley said BNSF ships between 40 and 45 percent of
the crude oil produced in the Bakken region in  North Dakota  and
 Montana , and hasn’t yet seen any backups on its system.  Several East Coast refiners shut down or reduced output,
including Phillips 66, PBF Energy Inc.,  Hess Corp. (HES)  and
Philadelphia Energy Solutions.  PBF Energy Inc. reduced production at its 182,200 barrel-a-
day Delaware City, Delaware, refinery, the company said today.
PBF estimated it will ship 1,900 rail carloads a month of oil to
the Delaware plant offloading terminal during the fourth
quarter, according to a confidential PBF report obtained by
Bloomberg Sept. 18.  Rail cars shipped  46 percent  of Bakken crude in August,
according to the North Dakota Pipeline Authority.  Hurricane Sandy  Hurricane Sandy’s center is expected to make landfall later
today on the southern New Jersey coast near  Atlantic City ,
according to the National Hurricane Center. Hurricane-force
winds and coastal storm surges are expected from Virginia to
Massachusetts.  Gulf of Mexico  crude grades gained as Brent widened its
 premium  over WTI for a sixth consecutive day. Brent, the global
benchmark crude, rose 54 cents to $23.81 a barrel over WTI, the
U.S. benchmark. When Brent’s premium to WTI increases, the cost
of alternatives such as Gulf crudes tend to rise as well.  Light Louisiana Sweet increased $1.30 to $22.30 a barrel
over WTI, while Heavy Louisiana Sweet gained $1.80 to a $22.30
premium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  