-- Banca Transilvania Nine-Month Net Income Rises 30% on Loans
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-10-29T08:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/banca-transilvania-nine-month-net-income-rises-30-on-loans-1-.html
Banca Transilvania SA (TLV) ,  Romania ’s
second-biggest publicly traded bank, said its profit rose 30
percent in the first nine months as increased lending boosted
its total assets.  Net income jumped to 265.4 million lei ($75 million) from
204.5 million lei in the same period a year earlier, the Cluj-
Napoca, Romania-based bank said  in a regulatory filing  today.
Operating profit rose 14 percent to 540.6 million lei on rising
revenue from financial operations and fees.  “These results confirm our expectations and the ongoing
positive trend, despite some adverse market events,” Chairman
Horia Ciorcila said in the statement. “We’re optimistic about
our abilities to fulfill our annual targets, even though we
remain cautious and mindful of the extremely difficult local and
international economic environment.”  Banca Transilvania, one of the six Romanian banks
controlled by domestic investors, is increasing lending to gain
market share in the eastern European country mainly from Greek and
Austrian lenders. The banking industry is struggling to reverse
a rise in non-performing loans that will probably trigger losses
for the third consecutive year.  Romania’s banking industry is dominated by Austrian banks,
which control 38 percent of the market, followed by Romanian
lenders with a market share of 18.3 percent, the country’s
central bank said in its financial stability report published on
Sept. 18.  Greeks, Austrians  The market share of Greek banks declined to 12.9 percent
from 16.3 percent, according to the stability report.  Banca
Comerciala Romana SA , owned by Erste Group Bank AG, is the
country’s largest bank by assets.  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale SA (BRD) 
ranks second.  Banca Transilvania’s net assets grew 12 percent to 29
billion lei from 25.8 billion lei at the end of 2011, the lender
said. Non-performing loans amounted to 10.9 percent of the
bank’s total loan portfolio, according to the statement.  Net bad-loan provisions rose to 277.6 million lei in the
first nine months of the year, compared with 195 million lei a
year ago, the bank said.  Banca Transilvania will see a charge of 23 million lei in
the fourth quarter stemming from higher bad-loan costs following
an audit ordered by the central bank across the entire sector,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  