-- Banks Should Give More Data on Basel, Stress Tests, FSB Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/banks-should-give-more-data-on-basel-stress-tests-fsb-says.html
Banks should increase the data they
disclose to investors on how well they measure up to Basel
capital rules and on their performance in internal stress tests,
according to global regulators.  Supervisors at the Financial Stability Board also called
for lenders to disclose all off-balance sheet commitments, as
part of a push to curb banks’ risk taking.  “Rebuilding investors’ confidence and trust in the banking
industry is vital to the future health of the financial
system,” an FSB task force said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Better disclosure by banks of the risks they are
running “is an important step in achieving that goal.”  The European Union and U.S. are struggling to meet a
January deadline to implement updated  bank capital  and liquidity
rules. The measures, known as Basel III, are intended to prevent
a repeat of the financial crisis that followed the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The standards will more than
triple the core capital that lenders must have to absorb losses.  Regulators have warned that banks avoided the full force of
earlier Basel standards by using complex accounting procedures
and off-balance sheet entities.  Lenders should “outline plans” to meet the new Basel
rules, and explain the models they use to measure their  capital
requirements , according to the report.  Other data requirements concern the collateral held against
derivatives trades, and whether such transactions have passed
through clearinghouses.  On stress tests, lenders should set out their internal
procedures for running the exams, and explain the role they play
in assessing capital needs.  The FSB brings together regulators, central bankers, and
finance ministry officials from the Group of 20 nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  