-- Bank of Israel Unexpectedly Cuts Rate, Limits Mortgages
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-10-29T17:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/bank-of-israel-unexpectedly-cuts-rate-sets-mortgage-limits.html
The Bank of  Israel  cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to a 22-month low and set limits on mortgage
spending in an effort to counter slowing economic growth without
fueling a housing bubble.  The monetary policy committee, led by Governor  Stanley Fischer , cut the rate by a quarter-point to 2 percent, the
Jerusalem-based bank said on its website today. None of the 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the decision.  “Surprise is an understatement in this decision,” Yaniv Pagot, chief strategist at the Ramat Gan-based Ayalon Group
Ltd., said by telephone. “Like everyone else, my jaw dropped.”  The Bank of Israel, which joined central banks from  South
Korea  to  Brazil  in reducing lending rates this month, has
gradually reduced the benchmark from 3.25 percent in September
2011 in an effort to shore up the economy amid the  European debt
crisis  and a global slowdown. Growth is expected to slow to 3.5
percent this year, from 4.6 percent last year, according to the
Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics .  “For a few weeks they have been telling us that they want
to cool down the housing prices and then they cut the rates,”
said Pagot. “It’s the timing that is the most strange.”  Mortgage Restrictions  The central bank also released, together with the rate
decision, new draft directives aimed at damping the housing
market that are scheduled to take effect on Nov. 1. Housing
prices have increased by about 20 percent since the beginning of
2010, according to Central Bureau of Statistics figures.  The directives limit mortgages to 70 percent of the value
of the home, with the exception of first-time buyers, who will
be permitted to borrow as much as 75 percent. Mortgages on
houses purchased as an investment will be limited to 50 percent
of the value.  “The Bank of Israel decided to fight the price of housing
by restricting mortgages and therefore canceling out the impact
of the lower  interest rate  on housing prices,” said Modi Shafrir, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based I.L.S. Brokers Ltd.
“Bank of Israel is dovish on the future of the local economy
and the global economy and therefore, in a surprising move,
decided to be ahead of the curve.”  The shekel weakened to 3.9160 against the dollar at 6:35
p.m. in  Tel Aviv  after trading at 3.8815 before the
announcement. It was trading at 3.9105 at 6:52 p.m.  “It’s the Fischer effect,” said  Tevfik Aksoy , an
economist at Morgan Stanley. “He does this every once in a
while, when nobody expects it.”  Slowing Growth  The level of economic risk around the world remains high
and domestic growth may be slowing, the central bank said in
explaining its decision to cut the lending rate. Exports make up
about 40 percent of Israeli gross domestic product.  “Indicators which became available this month continue to
strengthen the assessment that there has been some moderation in
the growth rate to about 3 percent,” the central bank said.
“Expectations seen in consumer surveys and the Business
Tendency Survey are pessimistic and indicate predictions of
further moderation in activity.”  In addition, the economy is expected to be affected in the
first few months of 2013 by the fiscal restraint inherent in
limitations on monthly government expenditure until a new budget
is approved, the bank said.  Inflation accelerated to 2.1 percent in September, less
than forecast, from 1.9 percent the previous month, the Central
Bureau of Statistics reported Oct. 15. The government’s target
range for inflation is 1 percent to 3 percent.  Consumer prices will probably rise 2 percent in the next 12
months, according to a survey of economists released by the  Bank
of Israel  on Oct. 17, compared with 2.6 percent in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 