-- Banks’ Reserve Cuts Drawing Close Scrutiny, OCC’s Curry Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-29T18:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/banks-cutting-reserves-drawing-close-scrutiny-occ-s-curry-says.html
U.S. regulators may take action
against banks that boost risk by excessively reducing loan-loss
reserves, Comptroller of the Currency Thomas Curry said in a
Dallas speech.  “Too many institutions are continuing to reduce provisions
solely to boost earnings,” Curry said in remarks prepared for a
Risk Management Association conference today. “If provisioning
continues at current levels and charge-offs remain constant, the
allowance as a share of non-current loans could return to
historical lows in just a few years.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest U.S. bank by assets, and
rivals  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  all reported third-
quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates. Jamie Dimon,
JPMorgan’s chairman and chief executive officer said on Oct. 12
that housing-market improvements enabled his New York-based bank
to reduce related reserves by $900 million.  In the recovery since the 2008 financial crisis, the
improvements in commercial real estate still won’t soon reach
previous peaks, and as many as half of the loans will need to be
rolled over by 2014, Curry said. With quarterly reserves failing
to meet the level of charge-offs, Curry said the OCC is “ready
to take action” if needed.  On-site Examinations  OCC staff members conduct on-site examinations of national
banks and federal savings associations and provide sustained
supervision of the institutions’ operations, according to the
agency’s website. Actions against lenders deemed to be engaging
in unsound practices can include cease-and-desist orders, fines
and removal of officers and directors, according to the website.  “To be clear, I am not saying that we see an immediate
problem at national banks and federal savings associations that
demands urgent corrective action,” Curry said in the speech.
“But I am saying that we are watching reserves very closely,
and we expect national banks and federal savings associations to
maintain them at appropriate levels.”  Regulators have been meeting with accounting-oversight
organizations and industry groups to ensure wide understanding
of what it takes to properly set aside reserves, Curry said.  Bryan Hubbard, an OCC spokesman, declined to comment on
what actions the agency would consider.  As Curry spoke in  Texas , his agency issued an emergency
authorization allowing national banks and federal savings
association offices in the path of  Hurricane Sandy  to close if
necessary. As with other federal government offices in
 Washington  today, the OCC and other banking regulators’ offices
were closed to the public and non-emergency workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  