-- Banker’s Girlfriend Says She Researched Tip Before Buying Stock
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-10-29T15:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/banker-s-girlfriend-says-she-researched-tip-before-buying-stock.html
Christina Weckwerth, accused of
buying shares based on inside information from her banker
boyfriend, said she didn’t know his work was related to the tips
and she did her own analysis before deciding to buy the stock.  Weckwerth, 44, told a London court today that she bought
shares of OCE NV in 2009 before it was bought by  Canon Inc. (7751)  only
after she researched the recommendation of her boyfriend, former
Mizuho banker Thomas Ammann.  Ammann repeatedly told Weckwerth OCE’s shares were “very
undervalued” and that the company was rumored to be a takeover
target, she said. Her own calculations showed her the shares,
which were trading at about 2.50 euros in early 2009, were worth
about 7 euros based on their net asset value, she said.  Weckwerth is on trial with another of Ammann’s girlfriends,
Jessica Mang. The U.K. Financial Services Authority, which is
prosecuting the case, said Weckwerth took in nearly 2 million
pounds (($3.2 million) from her trades. Both women paid half the
profits they made to Ammann, a lawyer for the FSA said earlier
in the trial.  Ammann, who has pleaded guilty, had previously made
investment recommendations that helped Weckwerth make 400,000
euros ($416,000) and she trusted his advice, she said today.
Ammann claimed to have doubled his family’s money through his
investments, and convinced Weckwerth to buy two of his
apartments in 2008, saying they would be a good deal, she said.  Apartment Sale  The properties “were going to be auctioned off if he
didn’t pay the mortgage,” said Weckwerth, who is originally
from Cyprus and has connections to Britain and  Germany . “I sold
them at a profit. He turned out to be right.”  Weckwerth lawyer Alexander Cameron, the brother of Prime
Minister  David Cameron , showed her documents outlining her and
Ammann’s history of discussing investments, arguing she didn’t
know any of them were related to his work.  “I considered him a specialist and I had no problem
consulting with him,” Weckwerth said after being shown e-mails
between her and Ammann about investing in derivatives tied to
the  DAX (DAX)  exchange in Germany in 2008.  Weckwerth chastised Ammann in an e-mail after he complained
about her decision to sell some of her OCE shares, which she had
spent hundreds of thousands of euros acquiring.  “I was telling him not to cross a line by being insistent
with his suggestions,” Weckwerth said. “He would repeat this
company was very worthwhile and would criticize me for being
scared” and selling some OCE shares.  Ammann, who worked for the Mizuho mergers and acquisitions
team that advised Canon on the OCE deal, pleaded guilty this
year to  insider trading  and encouraging both women to commit
insider trading. Canon, the Tokyo-based maker of cameras and
photocopiers, agreed to buy OCE in a 730 million-euro deal in
November 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  