-- Baoshan Steel to Invest $1.3 Billion in Natural Gas Pipeline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-30T03:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/baoshan-steel-to-invest-1-3-billion-in-oil-pipeline-project.html
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) ,  China ’s
biggest publicly traded steelmaker, will invest 8 billion yuan
($1.3 billion) in a natural- gas pipeline  as overcapacity and
higher raw material costs squeeze its profit margins for steel.  The company will own about 13 percent of China National
Petroleum Corp.’s third pipeline project, which will link the
Xinjiang region in the nation’s west with  Fujian province  in the
east, according to a statement to the  Shanghai  stock exchange
yesterday. China National Petroleum, the parent of PetroChina
Co., is a key client of Baoshan.  Baoshan, facing sluggish demand from automakers and
builders, is looking to diversify to generate profits. The
Shanghai-based company yesterday reported a 4.9 percent drop in
the third-quarter profit, and said today earnings won’t improve
in the fourth quarter as it provides for an unprofitable steel
unit.  “Investing in a gas pipeline is a hot opportunity and such
opportunities weren’t available before,” General Manager Ma Guoqiang told investors in an online meeting today. Baoshan
expects a 10 percent annual return from the pipeline, he said.  Baoshan shares added as much as 0.7 percent to 4.61  yuan 
today in Shanghai and traded at 4.60 yuan as of 10:58 a.m. local
time, beating a 0.2 percent gain in the Shanghai Composite Index.  Profit Falls  Third-quarter profit declined to 1.18 billion yuan, beating
the 863 million yuan mean estimate of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Baoshan received part of the proceeds from a
land sale in Wusong in the northeastern outskirt of Shanghai
during the third quarter, Ma said today.  Baoshan plans to sell its Corex plant in Luojing near
Shanghai to parent Baosteel Group Corp. for 2.73 billion yuan,
after suspending production there in September as demand fell
for slabs used to make ships and bridges, the company said
yesterday. The plant, with a combined steel capacity of 3
million tons annually, will be moved to Xinjiang, it said.  Baoshan will also buy a 71.8 percent stake in a steel
project in Zhanjiang in southern China’s Guangdong province from
the government for 5 billion yuan, according to a separate
statement yesterday.  --Helen Yuan and Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Indranil Ghosh, Andrew Hobbs  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  