-- Bearded Romney, Wizard Obama, Voters Star in Art Shows
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/bearded-romney-wizard-obama-voters-star-in-art-shows.html
Norman Rockwell’s iconic 1943
Thanksgiving scene, “Freedom From Want,” vies for attention
with a giant portrait of  Mitt Romney  by contemporary artist
Richard Phillips in a new exhibition space in Chelsea.  Both are part of  “We the People,”  a group show organized
by the Robert Rauschenberg Foundation in what used to be the
late artist’s (1925-2008) garage.  The show includes Alex Katz, Keith Haring, Alice Neel,
George Segal, John Currin, Shirin Neshat, among others. Curators
Allison Gingeras and Jonathan Horowitz wanted to offer “an
artistic view of the diverse demographics of our country, in
contrast to the taglines and catchphrases of the 2012
election,” according to the press release.  Martha Rosler’s antiwar photomontage “Gladiators” (2004)
depicts U.S. troops in an elegant living room. Neshat’s 2012
gelatin silver print, “Muhammed,” inspired by the Arab Spring,
is a portrait of a young man, holding his right hand against his
heart, with the artist’s signature spidery calligraphy covering
his face.  Interested buyers must contact the artist’s gallery. The
show runs through Nov. 9 at 455 W. 19th St.; +1-212-228-5283;
 http://www.rauschenbergfoundation.org/ .  Party Lines  Brian Dailey spent about six months over the course of two
years driving around the U.S. in a truck with a portable studio,
organizing spontaneous photo shoots.  The subjects were asked to pose in front of a color
background representing their political affiliation: red for
Republicans, blue for Democrats, green for Green Party, gray for
Independents and yellow for those who don’t care about voting or
can’t for legal reasons.  The resulting catalog of the U.S. electorate today appears
in “America in Color,” a solo show by the Washington D.C.-
based Dailey at  Stephan Stoyanov Gallery  on the Lower East Side.  A tough looking elderly man, in a crisp cowboy hat and
leather chaps, stands primly against red.  A black woman wearing what could be a Mardi Gras costume is
captured in a dance-like pose, smiling broadly -- against blue.  On a gray background, a black man sporting a white apron
and black bowtie gives the viewer thumbs up.  Displayed in three rows of 11 images each, the photographs
form a vibrant, playful tapestry -- a portrait of diversity. The
show also includes video footage of hundreds of photo shoots.  Prices range from $2,800 to $9,500. The video features 685
portraits and comes in an edition of 10, with prices ranging
from $6,000 to $15,000. The show runs through Nov. 18 at 29
Orchard St.; +1-212-343-4240;  http://www.stephanstoyanov.com/ .  Dungeons, Dragons  Nearby, Casey Jex Smith, a practicing Mormon who lives in
 Ohio , combines religion and politics in his meticulous ink
drawings, theatrical installations and video.  Smith’s “Fiend in the Void” exhibition at  Allegra LaViola
Gallery  features works on paper filled with Mormon imagery, sci-
fi scenarios, dungeons and dragons. A syrupy-looking bowl of
fake blood on a pedestal was used to scribble mysterious numeric
sequences on wallpaper.  President  Barack Obama  wears a dragon crown, holding a
wizard’s staff; Mitt Romney has a hermit’s thick, long beard.
The two are no longer political rivals but heroic characters in
a fantasy world.  Prices range from $600 to $6,500. The show runs through
Nov. 10 at 179 East Broadway; +1-917-463-3901;
 http://www.allegralaviola.com/ .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 