-- Blair Warns Euro-Area Crisis Could Lead to Whole EU Breaking Up
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-29T16:48:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/blair-warns-euro-area-crisis-could-lead-to-whole-eu-breaking-up.html
Former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair  said the European Union’s political community could break
up if the financial crisis in the euro area is not resolved.  The EU cannot fix the single-currency region’s debt crisis
through the sort of “incremental steps” that have so far been
agreed on, Blair said in a speech to the  Nicolas Berggruen
Institute on Governance  in Berlin today. A “grand bargain” is
needed to convince the public and international investors that
fundamental issues have finally been resolved, he said.  “I would give a stark warning,” Blair said in the speech,
which was released by his office. “If euro-zone structures end
up with a Europe that is fundamentally divided politically as
well as economically, rather than a Europe with one political
settlement that accommodates different levels of integration
within it, the EU as we know it will be on a path to break up.”  Blair, the U.K. premier from 1997 to 2007 who now serves as
a Middle East envoy, made his intervention on the day his  Labour
Party  tried to seize the initiative from Prime Minister  David Cameron  in the debate over the EU’s future budget by calling for
a reduction of spending in real terms. Cameron has said he wants
the EU to cap the increase in its budget to the rate of
inflation, though he’s declined to set out exact figures on the
deal he’s seeking for Britain.  Blair said that Cameron risks “sidelining” Britain in the
future governance of Europe. Cameron has suggested a “two-
tier” budget structure for countries within the euro and those
outside.  Blair said there would be some “differentiation of
speed” within the EU as political institutions catch up with
economic ones, though the gap should not be too wide.  “I can almost feel the relief in some euro-federalist
quarters and amongst most euro-skeptics at the prospect of a two
or three-speed  Europe ,” he said. Even so, it’s not in Britain’s
interest to play “short-term politics” on the issue, he said.  Blair reiterated a call for a Europe-wide election for the
presidency of the European Commission, the EU’s executive arm,
or the Council of ministers as a way to involve the public in
European affairs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  