-- Brazil Swap Rates Decline on Inflation Forecast; Real Weakens
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-10-29T20:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/brazil-swap-rates-decline-on-inflation-forecast-real-weakens.html
Brazilian swap rates fell for a
sixth day as economists lowered their inflation forecast for the
South American country next year.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.79 percent at 6 p.m.
in Sao Paulo. The real depreciated 0.3 percent to 2.0329 per
dollar.  A central bank survey published today showed economists
covering  Latin America ’s largest economy lowered their 2013
inflation forecast to 5.40 percent from 5.42 percent a week ago,
bolstering speculation that the central bank will keep the
benchmark rate at a record-low 7.25 percent into next year.  “The central bank survey was benign for inflation,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Gradual Investimentos, said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “The data expected to come out this week
in  Brazil  won’t be exceptional.”  Swap rates also declined as concern  Hurricane Sandy  will
hurt the U.S. recovery fueled bets that weaker global growth
will help cool inflation in Brazil and allow borrowing costs to
remain low. U.S. treasuries rose, pushing 10-year note yields to
almost a two-week low in an abbreviated trading session, amid
concern Sandy will disrupt business.  Brazilian policy makers cut the target lending rate for a
10th straight meeting Oct. 10 to spur growth in an economy
posting the slowest growth among major  emerging markets .
Analysts left their 2012 growth forecast for Brazil unchanged
for a third week at 1.54 percent, which would be the weakest
since 2009, according to the central bank survey of about 100
economists published today.  Emerging-Market Currencies  Industrial production in Brazil probably contracted 0.5
percent in September, following a 1.5 percent gain in August,
according to the median estimate of 40 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The data will be released Nov. 1.  Most emerging-market currencies depreciated against the
dollar as concern the  European debt crisis  is weighing on global
growth increased demand for haven assets. The real’s drop was
limited by speculation the central bank will intervene to keep
it trading within a small range, Perfeito said.  “The market is locked because of the actions of the
central bank,” he said.  The central bank sold reverse currency swaps twice last
week to support exporters by preventing appreciation.  The bank sold $1.6 billion in reverse currency swaps on
Oct. 23, $1.3 billion on Oct. 5, $5.7 billion of contracts Sept.
12 through Sept. 17 and $350 million on Aug. 21 to weaken the
real. The August reverse swaps were the first since March.  2012 Performance  The real has lost 8.2 percent this year, the worst
performance among the 16 most-traded currencies against the
dollar.  Brazil’s central government in September posted its
smallest primary surplus since June as stimulus spending
continued to rise faster than  tax revenue .  The central government’s surplus excluding interest
payments was 1.3 billion reais ($640 million) in September, down
from 1.6 billion reais in August, the Treasury said in a
statement distributed in Brasilia today. The median estimate
from nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 1.4 billion
reais surplus. September’s number was the smallest since a 1.1
billion reais surplus in June and was the lowest for the month
since 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  