-- Broadbent Says BOE Should Keep Targeting Inflation
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-10-29T17:09:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/broadbent-says-boe-should-keep-targeting-inflation.html
Bank of  England  policy maker Ben Broadbent said the Monetary Policy Committee must maintain its
inflation-targeting regime or risk losing credibility as he
argued against looking at a nominal income goal instead.  “The credibility of the current regime may or may not have
suffered had inflation been higher in recent years,” he said in
a speech in Lancaster, England today. “But it’s hard to believe
it wouldn’t have been seriously damaged -- for both the new and
the old target -- had we simply switched horses in mid course.”  Broadbent said he and the rest of the MPC will continue to
set policy aiming to meet the 2 percent inflation goal. His
remarks follow those of Chief Economist  Spencer Dale , who said
in an interview with The Times newspaper published today that in
coming years officials should “seriously think about” whether
inflation targeting is the right framework.  Broadbent responded to criticisms of the central bank’s
policy before the financial crisis struck in 2008, saying that
the buildup of risk happened on a global level that the U.K.
could not have escaped. While the ensuing credit squeeze ravaged
the construction sector, it may now be starting on a path to
recovery, he said.  “Like many others, the construction sector was a victim of
a global credit crunch, not a local boom beforehand,” he said.
“The creation of the Financial Policy Committee, which is
explicitly charged with limiting systemic risks in the financial
system, only strengthens this point.”  Funding for Lending  In part because of the central bank’s Funding for Lending
program, which started in August, “the prospects for the
construction sector look less unfavorable than they have been
for a while,” he said. The FLS “holds out the prospect of some
easing in domestic credit supply” and “if it actually resulted
in more mortgage approvals, I would expect this to push up
residential investment as well.”  Answering audience questions at the event at Lancaster
University Management School, Broadbent said policy makers
expect inflation to remain closer to the higher end of a range
between 2 percent and 2.5 percent “in the near team.”
Officials then predict it will start “drifting down” from next
spring, he said.  “The overall judgment is that we still have spare capacity
in the economy,” Broadbent said. “We can get a little more
growth, but we won’t be generating inflation.”  GDP Revisions  The policy maker also said revisions to gross domestic
product figures may show that Britain hadn’t experienced a
double-dip recession this year.  Data “tends to get enormously revised and it’s quite
possible that in 2, 3, 4 years’ time, whenever the numbers
actually settle down, and it is that long before they do, they
may well turn out we didn’t have a double dip,” he said.
“Whether or not that number is precisely zero, slightly
positive or slightly negative doesn’t really matter, but it’s
worth bearing in mind.”  While productivity may have grown more slowly in
construction than elsewhere in the British economy, “there’s
also some evidence that the level of productivity is relatively
low in the U.K., in which case there is room for further
growth,” he said. There has been a “‘boomless bust’ in
construction,” and “we should expect it to come to an end
soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  