-- BT Poised to Cut Sales Forecast on Europe Contract Delays
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-29T11:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/bt-poised-to-cut-sales-forecast-on-europe-contract-delays.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A)  may cut its sales
forecast for this year as European corporate customers cut back
on services from the U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company.  An unfavorable regulatory pricing decision, which will
reduce wholesale revenue, will also affect sales, said a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified before
the results. BT, which is scheduled to report second-quarter
earnings Nov. 1, previously projected underlying revenue growth
to improve in fiscal years ending March 2013 and 2014.  Chief Executive Officer Ian Livingston said in July that
the corporate phone market in  Europe  is worsening and said
London-based BT would target more business in  Asia ,  Latin
America  and the  Middle East . Customers outside the U.K. have
been hesitant to sign up for new contracts and those that do are
committing to smaller-than-usual deals, he said at the time.
Sales were also hurt by a regulatory decision this year about
the amount it can charge mobile-phone operators for calls to
some numbers.  “The extent of the cut will be critical as we have argued
that in the current environment, where revenue decline is
accelerating, BT will struggle to accelerate cost cuts” to meet
longer-term forecasts, Saeed Baradar, an analyst at  Societe
Generale  in  London , said in a note yesterday.  Sales Decline  BT dropped as much as 1.6 percent to 213.70 pence in London
trading and was down 1.3 percent as of 10:59 a.m. The stock rose
14 percent this year through Oct. 26, beating the 4.2 percent
gain of the U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 index.  Dan Thomas, a BT spokesman, declined to comment before the
company’s earnings release.  Underlying sales, which exclude less profitable traffic
that regulators require BT to carry, will drop about 4.3 percent
to 18.5 billion pounds ($30 billion) for the year ending March
2013, according to the average of 21  analyst  estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. BT reported a 1.9 percent sales decline in fiscal
2012.  The company’s global services business, which makes up 40
percent of revenue, has been disrupted as corporate customers
cut employees and phone lines. Revenue for that unit declined
9.2 percent in the fiscal first quarter from a year earlier.  The U.K. Court of Appeal this year prohibited BT from
charging mobile-phone operators a percentage of their retail
price for calls to so-called non geographic numbers, used by
 call centers . The practice, known as ladder pricing, was
previously banned by regulator Ofcom.  High-Speed Fiber  BT, which had previously only charged a fixed fee,
introduced the new pricing method in 2009 and Barclays’s
analysts said on Oct. 15 that ladder pricing may have been worth
100 million pounds a year to BT.  BT has reported three straight years of revenue declines as
subscribers canceled home phone lines in favor of mobile
devices. To combat this, BT has invested 2.5 billion pounds to
roll out its high-speed fiber optic broadband network across the
U.K.  The company has also been investing in sports rights,
marking a new direction for the Internet-and-phone company. BT
said last month that it will pay as much as 152 million pounds
to show top English Rugby matches, winning the rights away from
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and Disney’s ESPN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  