-- Buffett-Backed BYD Falls After Forecasting Profit Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-30T05:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/buffett-backed-carmaker-byd-says-profit-may-plunge-by-98-.html
BYD Co. (1211) , the Chinese automaker
partially owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) ,
fell the most in a month in  Hong Kong  trading after the company
forecast profit may decline as much as 98 percent this year.  BYD dropped as much as 7 percent, the biggest slump since
Sept. 26, to HK$14.60, before trading at HK$14.98 as of 1:13
p.m. in Hong Kong. The company’s Shenzhen-traded  shares  fell as
much as 1.7 percent to 14.10  yuan .  A slowing economy damped demand for its solar-energy
products and major customers, including  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , ordered fewer
 lithium-ion batteries  to power mobile devices, the company said.
Shenzhen-based BYD, which gets about half its revenue from
autos, also faced faltering car sales in China amid increasing
competition.  “The solar division is to blame for the poor results and
we see no quick turnaround in this troubled division,” Ronnie Ho and Candy Tai, analysts at CCB International, said in a
report after the results, cutting their investment rating on the
Hong Kong listed stock to ’‘underperform’’ from “neutral.”  Net income for the year ending Dec. 31 may drop to between
27.7 million yuan ($4.4 million) and 110 million yuan, BYD said
in a statement to the Shenzhen stock exchange yesterday.  The company, led by chairman  Wang Chuanfu , also amassed
15.5 billion yuan in net debt at the end of the third quarter,
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. said in a report today. The rising
debt, up 1.1 billion yuan from the end of last year, should be a
source of concern for investors, wrote Ole Hui, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Mizuho.  Executives Quit  Based on Chinese accounting standards, BYD’s third-quarter
profit slid 94 percent to 4.6 million yuan, from 77.4 million
yuan a year ago. Sales fell 11 percent to 10.5 billion yuan from
11.8 billion yuan. The company forecast on Aug. 27 earnings in
the period may slide as much as 95 percent.  “Sales in the Chinese car industry started to slow this
year as the economy’s growth prospects dimmed, and the company
faced a lot of competitive pressure in the market,” BYD said in
a filing yesterday. “Global demand for solar energy was also
weak, leading to a big fall in our sales.”  A weak solar-energy business and the difficulty in winning
back car sales due to increased competition in  China  will weigh
on BYD’s operations in the near term, analysts from CCB said.  The company’s shares have slumped 38 percent in Shenzhen
this year as executives sold stock or left BYD. Vice President
Yang Longzhong resigned for unspecified personal reasons and
changes in company structure, BYD said on Sept. 27.  Sales Bottom  Five executives and an investor sold more than 100 million
yuan of Shenzhen-listed shares for personal reasons, John Li,
company secretary at BYD, said on Aug. 1. The company’s Hong
Kong-listed shares have fallen 19 percent this year.  BYD said its vehicle sales fell 18 percent in the third
quarter to 77,004 units. This compares with a 21 percent gain
for  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  to 704,991 vehicles, the German company
reported last month.  Auto sales will bottom out in 2012 and rise 6 percent next
year as BYD, which manufactures the S6 sport-utility vehicle and
the F3 sedan, benefits from improvements in technology and
quality, Yankun Hou and Ming Xu, analysts at  UBS AG (UBSN) , wrote in an
Oct. 24 report.  Still, the company faces challenges winning over customers
because the brand sold a “massive volume of low-quality cars”
in 2009 and 2010, and as rivals release more-competitive
offerings, the UBS analysts wrote.  No Buys  None of the  21 analysts  tracked by Bloomberg who cover BYD
recommend investors buy its Hong Kong stock. Eleven analysts
have a sell rating, with the remaining 10 recommending a hold.  MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., a unit of Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway, bought 9.9 percent of BYD in September 2008
to tap rising demand for clean technology. BYD shares surged
more than ninefold after Buffett’s investment, reaching a record
close of HK$85.50 on Oct. 23, 2009. MidAmerican is the Hong
Kong-listed stock’s second-largest shareholder with a 28 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The automaker said on Oct. 24 it had signed an initial
agreement to supply a company in  London  with 50 electric e6
vehicles for trial use as minicabs.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  