-- Butterworth Tries Swapping Lovers in ‘Jerusalem’ Sequel
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-10-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/butterworth-tries-swapping-lovers-in-jerusalem-sequel.html
After the popular success of
“ Jerusalem ” in  London  and  New York , expectations are riding
high on Jez Butterworth’s next play.  London’s Royal Court Theatre has even introduced a
controversial new ticketing system to cope with the demand for
seats.  “The River” is a deliberate attempt to play down those
expectations. It’s an intimate three-hander running in the
theater’s small 90-seat studio space. A fourth character,
uncredited, speaks just a few lines at the end.  The Man (Dominic West) has brought his new blonde
girlfriend The Woman (Laura Donnelly) to his remote log cabin
near a river. They squabble playfully about a proposed night-
time fishing trip.  Returning from the trip alone, The Man calls the police in
a panic. He’s lost The Woman, who has disappeared in the
darkness. Suddenly, there’s a voice. Phew! She’s returned. He
greets her with relief.  Only it isn’t The Woman. It’s The Other Woman (Miranda
Raison). She’s dark-haired, where The Woman was blonde. Neat,
eh?  The scene continues almost as if this new person had been
the participant in the previous scene. Thereafter, each time one
Woman leaves -- to go to the bathroom, say, or to look for a
Symbolically Significant Object (there are plenty of those, it’s
that sort of play) -- another returns, and continues almost as
if nothing had happened.  Tearing Clothes  Nothing much does happen, in fact. The three anonymous,
capitalized People discuss falling in love. They helpfully tell
each other things that have just happened between them in long
gobs of exposition. “Do you remember...? You kissed my neck.”
“We tore off our clothes.” “You blushed and you laughed.”
“You sighed.”  Many dramatists would think it more fun to actually show a
couple tearing off their clothes, or blushing, or laughing. If
you think it might also be more fun to see, then this really
isn’t the play for you.  No, this is irrealism, which is a sort of misty version of
surrealism. Links between cause and effect are ambiguous, though
not completely severed. Memories are unreliable. Questions are
answered with other questions.  (For a long, hard dose of irrealism at its most undiluted,
try Kazuo Ishiguro’s unreadable novel “The Unconsoled” and let
me know how you get on.)  Why Worry  The trouble with this sort of dramatic language is that the
further the Central Trio move into irreality, the harder it
becomes to care about them. When cause and effect aren’t
meaningfully linked, why should we worry about the consequences
of their actions?  By the time The Woman finally says, referring to The Other
Woman, “What happened to her? Where did she go? Did she even
exist?” you might consider poking a fish-hook into your side as
a more cheerful alternative to waiting for the predictably
ambiguous answer.  The acting is good. West (of “The Wire”) delivers a long
monologue about fishing without stumbling. Miranda Raison and
Laura Donnelly inject some pep into their fey, ambiguous roles.  The play runs for 80 minutes, though thanks to Ian Rickson’s direction (there are a few too many silent scenes of
cooking, clearing up, lighting candles and the like) it feels
longer.  Tickets are only available on the day, limited to two per
person. They go on sale at 9 a.m. online, and there are 30 more
available at 10 a.m. at the theater.  Critics have suggested this will encourage ticket touting.
Maybe. Or maybe demand won’t be as intense as expected after
all. Rating: **.  “The River” runs at the Jerwood Theatre Upstairs at the
Royal Court Theatre, Sloane Square, SW1W 8AS, through Nov. 17.
Information:  http://www.royalcourttheatre.com/whats-on/the-river 
or +44-20-7222-1234.  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  John Mariani 
on wine and  Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 