-- Cameron Risks Being Outmaneuvered by Labour, Fox on EU Budget
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-29T13:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/cameron-risks-being-outmaneuvered-by-labour-fox-on-eu-budget.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron is
at risk of being outmaneuvered over European Union budget
negotiations after his Labour opponents and a lawmaker in his
own party called for spending to be lowered in real terms.  Cameron has said he wants the EU to cap the increase in its
budget to the rate of inflation, though he’s declined to set out
exact figures on the deal he’s seeking for Britain. Labour’s
Treasury spokesman, Ed Balls, called in comments published today
for a “real-terms cut.” Any increase in the EU’s budget would
be “obscene,” said Conservative lawmaker Liam Fox, a former
defense secretary.  “The EU budget negotiations are classic opposition tactics
to outmaneuver Cameron and force him onto the back foot,” Mark Wickham-Jones, professor of politics at Bristol University, said
in a telephone interview. “The Conservatives are already
divided, both within themselves and with the Liberal
Democrats,” the premier’s coalition partners.  Cameron’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told reporters in
 London  the government has taken a “tough position” by arguing
for a real-terms freeze in EU spending.  “There simply isn’t a case for a real-terms increase in
European spending” over the seven years starting in 2014,
Sheriff said. “We’re going to be sticking to our guns. We’ve
been pushing the argument with other EU partners.”  Cameron, who has sought to strengthen his euro-skeptic
credentials to please elements within the Tory party, now faces
accusations that he has not gone far enough, as Labour seeks to
exploit tensions among Conservatives.  Balls, Fox  “Labour will argue against the proposed increase in EU
spending and support a real-terms cut in the budget,” Balls
wrote in today’s edition of the London-based Times newspaper.
Fox, who is a figurehead for Tory euroskeptics, also attacked
Cameron’s negotiating position.  “In a continent where a generation of young people are
unemployed as a result of the ever-closer EU ideology, the idea
that you would even increase for inflation the inflated wages of
the eurocrats is obscene,” Fox was cited as saying by the
Times.  Tory lawmakers plan to force a vote in the House of Commons
on Oct. 31 to block any real-terms increase in the budget,
seeking to bind Cameron to a negotiating position. Another
amendment to the motion calls for a real-terms cut.  ‘Some Constraint’  That amendment will “say that there must be at least some
constraint on EU spending,” Tory lawmaker Mark Reckless  wrote
on his blog . “Although many of us would wish to see a
substantial reduction in EU spending, at least in line with cuts
at home, today we are only asking the government to strengthen
its stance so that there is some real-terms reduction in the EU
budget.”  Labour lawmaker Gisela Stuart, who was involved in drafting
the EU constitution, will say on BBC radio’s “Analysis”
program, to be broadcast tonight, that Britain should leave the
bloc.  “My argument is that the European Union of 27, of which a
core have a single currency, is moving in a way which will
become extremely difficult for the United Kingdom to assume that
our current relationship can stay the same,” Stuart told BBC
television’s “Daily Politics” program today. “The euro
countries will have much deeper political integration, and that
is the only way the euro as a single currency can survive, and
that will then bring some really serious strategic questions for
the United Kingdom that we’ve never addressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  