-- Canada Gas Rises on Colder Weather Despite Sandy Uncertainty
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-10-29T17:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/canada-gas-rises-on-colder-weather-despite-sandy-uncertainty.html
Canadian natural gas prices rose on
forecasts for colder weather that may increase demand for the
heating fuel.  Gas increased as much as 2.3 percent. Heating demand is
expected to increase as low temperatures spread over the eastern
U.S. into mid-November, said Weather Derivatives of Belton,
 Missouri . Traders said  Hurricane Sandy  may cut demand if power
goes out on the East Coast.  “Temperatures are still down, but if you have power
outages you may see less natural gas demand,” said Eric Bickel,
an analyst with Summit Energy Services in Louisville,  Kentucky .
“Right now, I think Sandy is leaving that an open question.”  November gas in Alberta  rose 7.25 cents to C$3.175 per
gigajoule ($3.01 per million British thermal units) at 12:40
p.m.  New York  time on NGX, a Canadian electronic exchange.  Natural gas for November delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  rose 6.3 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $3.463
per million Btu. The November contract expires today. Pit
trading in New York was canceled because of the storm.  “Overnight modeling has reiterated a very decisive cold
snap for the eastern half of the U.S. going toward mid-
November,”  David Salmon , forecaster for Weather Derivatives,
wrote in a note to clients today. Low temperatures in the
central and southeastern U.S. will push heating demand to 4
percent above normal this week, he said.  Sandy’s Landfall  Hurricane Sandy’s center is expected to make landfall later
today on the southern New Jersey coast near  Atlantic City ,
according to the National Hurricane Center. Hurricane-force
winds and storm surges are expected for portions of the
coastline from  Virginia  to  Massachusetts .  “Nat gas demand could be lower for the next week or so
depending on the extent of the power outages across the storm
area,” Dominick Chirichella of the Energy Management Institute
in New York wrote in a note to clients.  Canada gas exports to the U.S. fell to 5.25 billion cubic
feet a day in the week ended Oct. 25, down 14.8 percent from the
five-year average, according to LCI Energy Insight, an El Paso,
Texas, energy consulting firm.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output from most of Canada’s gas wells, was 15.5 billion cubic
feet at 11 a.m. New York time, 96 percent its target rate.  Gas Flows  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.11 billion cubic feet
at Empress,  Alberta , where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
rate was 2.03 billion cubic feet.  TransCanada’s  British Columbia system  at Kingsgate had 1.24
million cubic feet per day of available capacity. The system was
forecast to carry 1.48 billion cubic feet today, 54 percent of
estimated capacity.  The volume on  Spectra Energy Corp.’s  British Columbia
system, which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia
for delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled
3.12 billion cubic feet at 11:35 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  