-- Canadian Dollar Drops Below Parity as Risk Appetite Ebbs
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-29T21:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/canadian-dollar-declines-as-storm-damps-appetite-for-risk.html
Canada ’s dollar weakened below
parity with its U.S. counterpart for the first time since August
as investors’ risk appetite declined.  The currency fell for a fifth day as U.S. equity trading
was canceled with  Hurricane Sandy  barreling toward the East
Coast. Moody’s Investors Service warned Oct. 26 it may cut the
ratings of six Canadian-based lenders.  “The Canadian dollar is the marquee currency today,
breaking parity,” Adam Button, an analyst at forexlive.com in
 Montreal , said in a phone interview. “We’re continuing to see a
fairly strong risk-off tone, while many market participants were
expecting an extremely quiet session because of the closures in
 New York . Canadian banks were put on review for a downgrade, and
the market didn’t get to respond last week, and it is today.”  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, weakened 0.4 percent to C$1.0010
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It hasn’t lost for five
consecutive days since May. The Canadian dollar last closed
weaker than parity on Aug. 6. One Canadian dollar buys $0.9990.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24  raw materials 
declined 0.4 percent.  U.S. stock trading was canceled tomorrow for a second day,
joining bond markets, as 90-mile-per-hour winds and surging seas
from the hurricane bore down on New York and
paralyzed American  capital markets .  Government Surplus  The Canadian government will post a surplus of C$3.2
billion ($3.2 billion) in the 2015-16 fiscal year following
combined deficits of C$36.3 over the next three years,
Parliamentary Budget Officer  Kevin Page  said in a report posted
on his office’s website today.  “The forecast from the Canadian budget office is another
headwind for the loonie,” Button said. “When you see that kind
of forecast, it really takes the shine off the Canadian dollar.
It certainly calls into question any ideas about a rate hike in
2013.”  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said last week the need
for higher  interest rates  has become “less imminent,” a day
after strengthening the case for a removal of monetary stimulus.  Carney’s emphasis on high debt levels was highlighted when
Moody’s placed  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and
four other lenders on review for possible downgrade, citing the
heightened risk to Canada’s economy from rising consumer debt
and real estate prices.  Canadian bank debt dropped 0.04 percent this month, the
only finance bonds to lose money among those from 27 countries
tracked by a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. The average
gain was 0.6 percent, the index shows.  Technical Analysis  The loonie’s weakening below parity means it’s potentially
the top of a minor bear wedge and the move upwards, though
prevailing, may start to “grind” lower,   Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said in a note to
clients today.  “We remain firmly committed to the bullish” U.S. dollar
outlook, even as the market bumps up against what is likely to
be firm resistance around the 200-day moving average, he said.
Last week’s move up to the upper 99-cent region “puts funds on
target for a push” to C$1.0050 to C$1.0150 in the near term.
Resistance is an area on a chart where sell orders may be
clustered.  U.S. dollar investors should buy into modest losses in spot
at 99.60 to 99.65, he said.  The loonie has gained 0.5 percent this year against nine
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 1.7 percent, one of
the top three decliners along with the yen and euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  