-- Cat Bonds Drop Most Since February as Storm Barrels Toward Coast
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-10-29T15:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/cat-bonds-drop-most-since-february-as-storm-barrels-toward-coast.html
Bonds designed to protect insurers
from payouts on natural disasters dropped last week by the most
in eight months with the Atlantic’s largest-ever tropical storm
poised to strike the East Coast with a life-threatening surge.  Prices of catastrophe bonds, which lose money if they’re
triggered, fell 0.4 percent to 94.77 as of Oct. 26, according to
the Swiss Re Cat Bond Price Return Index. The measure, which
tracks dollar-denominated debt sold by insurers and reinsurers,
includes bonds linked to potential storm damage in the U.S.  Total returns on the securities, which are up 10.1 percent
this year to more than triple last year’s gains, dropped as
Hurricane Sandy threatens to lash a region of 60 million with
gales, rain and even snow. About $1 billion of catastrophe bonds
may be exposed to the storm, according to a “loose” estimate
last week by Patti Guatteri of Swiss Re Capital Markets.  The hurricane is expected to converge with two other
systems, creating a phenomenon the National Weather Service has
dubbed Frankenstorm that may cause insured losses of more than
$6 billion, according to estimates from Kinetic Analysis Corp.
compiled by Bloomberg.  Cat bond prices have gained 2.1 percent this year through
last week, compared with a 5 percent decline in 2011, when an
earthquake and tsunami struck  Japan  in March.  Investor demand for the securities has grown with yields on
speculative-grade corporate bonds hovering at  record lows  as the
Federal Reserve holds down interest rates to boost the economy.  Bond Yields  About $5.5 billion of dollar-denominated cat bonds issued
in 2012 have an average maturity of three years with yields of
9.28 percentage points more than short-term lending rates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
6.91 percent yield on speculative-grade bonds, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommends a full market close tomorrow in dollar-denominated
fixed-income securities in the U.S. because of the storm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  