-- Chileans Ditch Mayors From Ruling Alliance in Blow to Pinera
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-10-29T12:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/chile-voters-ditch-mayors-from-ruling-alliance-in-blow-to-pinera.html
Chilean President Sebastian Pinera’s
coalition suffered a defeat in local elections yesterday with the
opposition winning key municipalities just one year before
presidential elections.  Pro-government candidates lost a net 23 of the 144
municipalities they controlled nationwide, including downtown
Santiago and nearby Providencia. The two leading opposition
groups, stretching from the  Christian Democrats  to the Communist
Party, won 43.1 percent of the vote for mayors, according to the
 electoral service . With more than 95 percent of the votes counted,
the ruling coalition had 37.5 percent.  The opposition victory marks a blow to Pinera´s leadership
within his administration and coalition as a whole ahead of the
November 2013 presidential election, said  Patricio Navia , a
political scientist at  New York University .  “This is really bad for Pinera,” Navia said by phone from
Santiago. “His government is now a lame-duck government, and he´s
going to have to rush to reshuffle his cabinet because ministers
will run away from him.”  Pinera is barred by law from seeking a second consecutive
term, while members of his cabinet, including Public Works
Minister  Laurence Golborne , who led the 2010 rescue of 33 trapped
miners in the Atacama desert, are seen as possible candidates to
replace the billionaire investor turned politician.  Pinera Popularity  Pinera had an approval rating of 27 percent in August, the
lowest of any president since  Chile ´s return to democracy in 1990,
according to Santiago-based polling company CEP. His predecessor,
 Michelle Bachelet , who hasn’t said if she will run for president
next year, left office with 78 percent approval. The July 5 to
Aug. 9 poll of 1,512 people has a margin of error of three
percentage points.  Student protesters, who have been holding almost weekly
marches since June 2011 for lower-cost schooling, will view
yesterday´s results as a victory because opponents of their
movement suffered defeats, said Navia.  Pro-government mayor Cristian Labbe, who last year ordered
police to evict students who had taken over schools in
Providencia, lost to independent candidate Josefa Errazuriz by
more than 12 percentage points. Pablo Zalaquett, the pro-
government mayor of Santiago who also opposed student marches,
lost to Carolina Toha by almost 7 points, according to initial
results.  More than 55 percent of eligible electors abstained yesterday
after new rules were put in place that made voting voluntary. Less
than 5.5 million Chileans voted yesterday, down from nearly 6.4
million in the previous election four years ago.  “We would have wanted greater participation,” Pinera said
in a televised speech last night. “Many Chileans decided not to
exercise their right to vote or participate in these elections,
and this is a warning sign that doesn’t and shouldn’t pass
unnoticed or leave us indifferent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 