-- Chinese City Halts Planned Chemical Project After Protests
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-29T03:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/chinese-city-halts-planned-chemical-project-after-protests-1-.html
Chinese authorities halted plans to
produce the toxic chemical paraxylene at a  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (386)  plant after hundreds of residents clashed with
police over concerns the factory would hurt their health.  The government of the eastern Chinese city of Ningbo
“firmly opposes” the project and will study it more, according
to a statement posted late yesterday to the website of the
government of Zhenhai district, where the plant is located. More
than 1,000 residents protested against an expansion of the
Sinopec plant, Phoenix Television reported.  The Ningbo protests are the latest in a series of
confrontations across China pitting demonstrators against local
governments over pollution concerns linked to industrial
projects. Leaders in China, which begins a once-a-decade
transition of power next week, face new demands from a public
that’s become better informed thanks to social media and is less
tolerant of projects that may pollute their cities or make them
sick, according to environment researcher Ma Jun.  “The opaque old way of doing things helped ensure a huge
growth rate over the last 30 years,” Ma, director of the
Beijing-based Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs,
said in a phone interview. “You could make a big plan and drive
it though without public consultation, but things have changed -
- it’s a different game. I hope the new leadership can take that
in a proactive way.”  Environmental Concerns  The demonstrations in Ningbo started on Oct. 24 when about
200 villagers began petitioning over environmental concerns and
blocked traffic, the local government said. Paraxylene is a
toxic petrochemical used in plastics, paints and cleaning
solvents.  Ningbo pledged to conduct an environmental assessment of
the facility. The official Xinhua News Agency cited Chen
Bingrong, the city’s vice secretary general, as saying Oct. 27
the the study would be done in a “public and transparent” way
and that all details of the project would be released publicly.  While authorities have condemned the organizers of the
protests, they said public sentiment would be taken into
consideration before construction starts. Lv Dapeng, a Beijing-
based spokesman for Sinopec and its parent  China  Petrochemical
Corp., didn’t answer three calls to his office line seeking
comment.  Chemical Factory  The protests followed a pattern that played out in the
southwestern city of Shifang in July, when thousands of people
protested the construction of a molybdenum copper plant.
Demonstrators in Dalian, in northeast China, forced the closing
of a chemical factory last year on environmental grounds,
according to reports by state media.  “I see these protests as emblematic of the rise of the
‘mortgage class’ in China -- urban, educated, middle class
professionals who are not overly political but can and will
mobilize on public health issues that affect their livelihood,”
Nicholas Bequelin, a Hong Kong-based researcher for  Human Rights
Watch , said in an e-mail. “The violence reflects the
increasingly contentious nature of social protests in China.”  The expanded Sinopec plant is designed to produce 15
million tons of refined oil and 1.2 million tons of ethylene
annually and will cost about 55.87 billion  yuan  ($8.9 billion),
Xinhua reported yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  