-- Citigroup Fined, Argentine Debt, Wells Fargo: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-10-29T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/citigroup-fined-argentine-debt-wells-fargo-compliance.html
Massachusetts’s top financial
watchdog fined  Citigroup Inc. (C)  $2 million after a junior analyst
improperly disclosed confidential information before  Facebook
Inc.’s (FB)  initial public offering.  As a part of Facebook’s underwriting syndicate, Citigroup
Global Markets was barred from disseminating research until 40
days after the stock offering, Massachusetts Secretary of the
Commonwealth William F. Galvin said Oct. 26 in a statement.
Weeks before the IPO, a junior analyst at the unit e-mailed two
employees at TechCrunch.com seeking feedback on a Facebook
document that contained a senior analyst’s view of investment
risks and revenue estimates, Galvin said.  A slump in Facebook’s stock after the May 18 offering has
fueled shareholder complaints, regulatory probes and more than
40 lawsuits, with some investors claiming the social-network
company’s managers failed to revise forecasts before the IPO.
Citigroup’s e-mail exchanges were provided to Galvin’s office on
Sept. 14 in response to a subpoena, and the junior analyst was
terminated about two weeks later, the watchdog said.  Galvin faulted the Citigroup subsidiary for failing to
supervise its analysts. The firm settled, admitted to a
statement of facts and pledged to abide by state securities
laws, he said.  “We are pleased to have this matter resolved,” Sophia
Stewart, a Citigroup spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We take
our internal policies and procedures very seriously and have
taken the appropriate actions.”  According to a person with direct knowledge of the matter,
Citigroup has also fired  Mark Mahaney , a senior technology
analyst. Mahaney, 46, wasn’t ousted because of the Facebook
case, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the move was private. The exit resulted from earlier actions
uncovered in the course of the Facebook probe, the person said.  Mahaney, who was based in San Francisco, declined to
comment when reached Oct. 26 by mobile phone.  Galvin has also subpoenaed Facebook’s lead underwriters
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  in connection with the IPO his office said.  JPMorgan spokesman  Joseph Evangelisti  declined to comment
on Galvin’s probe, as did Mary Claire Delaney, a Morgan Stanley
spokeswoman, and Leslie Shribman, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also is looking
at the IPO, said a person familiar with the probe who asked not
to be identified because the probe is confidential.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Ex-Galleon Executive Settles SEC Lawsuit for $1.75 Million  Kris Chellam, a former Galleon Group LLC executive, agreed
to pay $1.75 million to settle U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission claims that he passed inside information to Raj
Rajaratnam, the hedge-fund’s co-founder.  Chellam, 61, of Saratoga, California, shared information
with Rajaratnam in December 2006 indicating that chipmaker
 Xilinx Inc. (XLNX)  wouldn’t meet its revenue forecasts, the SEC said
Oct. 26 in a statement. Rajaratnam shorted Xilinx stock and
reaped illicit profits of $978,684 after the news was made
public.  When he passed the tip, Chellam had money invested with
Galleon and was in talks with Rajaratnam about taking a job at
the hedge fund, the SEC said. Chellam was Xilinix’s chief
financial officer at Xilinx from 1998 to 2005, the SEC said. In
2007, he was made co-managing partner of the Galleon Special
Opportunities Fund, a venture capital fund that focused on
technology companies.  Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year sentence in a
Massachusetts federal prison after being convicted last year of
 insider trading . Chellam hasn’t been charged with a crime.  Christopher Steskal, a lawyer for Chellam, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment about the complaint.
The settlement requires court approval.  Chellam now works as an independent consultant to closely
held technology companies, the SEC said.  The case is SEC v. Chellam, 12-cv-7983, U.S. District
court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Deloitte Partner Gets 21 Months for Insider Trades  Thomas P. Flanagan, a former Deloitte & Touche LLP partner,
was sentenced to 21 months in prison on Oct. 26 for trading on
insider information about the accounting firm’s clients,
including Best Buy Co. and  Walgreen Co. (WAG)   Flanagan, 65, who pleaded guilty to a single count of
securities fraud in August, was also sentenced to one year of
supervised release by U.S. District Judge Robert M. Dow in
Chicago. Flanagan left Deloitte in 2008, ending an association
with the New York-based firm and its predecessors that lasted
more than three decades.  Flanagan served as an advisory partner and liaison between
the audit-management teams of Walgreen, Best Buy and  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  and the firm’s auditors, according to the
original charging papers filed in July.  His job gave him access to non-public information involving
those companies and the technology firm formerly known as
Motorola Inc., including quarterly earnings results and
potential acquisition targets, according to a plea agreement he
signed in August.  Citing Flanagan’s plea, penance and devotion to family and
community, defense attorney Joel Levin asked Dow to impose a
sentence of six months’ incarceration and 1,000 hours of
community service.  Prosecutors said Flanagan’s personal history didn’t
outweigh the severity of his crime and argued for a punishment
that would promote deterrence.  Jonathan Gandal, a spokesman for Deloitte, said in an
August e-mail that the firm sued Flanagan after it learned what
he did.  “Deloitte unequivocally condemns the actions of this
individual,” Gandal said.  Flanagan and his son Patrick agreed in 2010 to pay more
than $1.1 million to settle related insider-trading claims
brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The case is U.S. v. Flanagan, 12-cr-00510, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Compliance Policy  EU Commission Pushes Back Against ECB Bank Oversight Limits  The European Commission is resisting attempts by some
national governments to set limits on the  European Central
Bank ’s planned power to supervise all banks in the euro area.  The Brussels-based commission renewed  its call  for the ECB
to have the right to take over tasks from national regulators
without having to justify itself, including supervision of banks
that haven’t received public aid and aren’t seen as systemically
important, according to a document dated Oct. 25 and obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  The commission is fighting a move to set hurdles for the
ECB to assume oversight of smaller banks and those that haven’t
received bailouts. An earlier draft of the plan prepared by
European Union member states had called for the ECB to present a
“reasoned decision” before stepping in to supervise such
lenders.  “National competent authorities should be responsible for
assisting the ECB on its request,” according to the document.
The ECB should be in charge of thrashing out how this
cooperation will work, the commission said.  Cyprus, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU,
proposed last week that the ECB should only be allowed to take
over oversight for such lenders if financial stability is under
threat. The ECB would also be required to consult with national
regulators and explain its reasoning before stepping in.  EBF’s Clausen Says EU Likely to Delay Basel Bank Rule Overhaul  Banks in the European Union expect the bloc to delay
applying the latest round of Basel bank capital rules as
political negotiations on the measures drag on, the head of a
lobbying group said.  Christian Clausen , president of the European Banking
Federation, said the EU will push back the planned Jan. 1 start
date for phasing in the standards because uncertainty over the
final rules risks leaving lenders with additional costs.  “It’s of course a major concern,” Clausen, who is also
chief executive officer of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , said in an interview
in Brussels on Oct. 26. “I’m sure the date will be postponed.”  The EU has struggled to agree on how to apply the Basel
capital rules for banks as legislators and officials spar over
curbs on bonuses and how to ensure lenders can weather funding
squeezes. The measures would more than triple the core capital
that banks must hold as a buffer against insolvency.  The Jan. 1 deadline was agreed on by the Group of 20
nations in 2010. The rules were drawn up by global regulators in
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  The lack of legal certainty, coupled with the international
deadline, means that banks might be forced to rely on draft
versions of the rules for guidance on how to overhaul their
internal compliance and reporting systems, Clausen said.  Lenders would then incur extra costs when they have to
adapt again to the final standards, he said.  “It’s a cost issue, a very simple cost issue” he said,
adding that the situation may also create confusion for
investors.  The EBF brings together national associations of banks in
the 27-nation EU.  In the Courts  Argentina Loses U.S. Appeal of Ruling on Defaulted Bonds  Argentina can’t make payments on restructured sovereign
debt while refusing to pay holders of its defaulted bonds, a
U.S. appeals court ruled in a victory for creditors including
Elliott Management Corp.’s NML Capital Fund.  The U.S. Appeals Court in New York on Oct. 26 upheld lower-
court decisions, which may help creditors who rejected the
country’s restructuring offers collect $1.4 billion in defaulted
debt. Argentine bonds dropped the most in four months on the
news.  “We hold that an equal treatment provision in the bonds
bars Argentina from discriminating against plaintiffs’ bonds in
favor of bonds issued in connection with the restructurings,”
U.S. Circuit Judge Barrington Parker said in the opinion.  The appeals court, which upheld orders issued by U.S.
District Judge Thomas Griesa in Manhattan, rejected Argentina’s
claims that the move would undermine its debt agreements,
trigger a new financial crisis in the republic and make it
impossible for countries including Greece, Spain and Portugal,
to restructure their debt in the future. Argentina defaulted on
more than $80 billion in foreign bonds in 2001.  The appeals court sent the case back to Griesa to clarify
how a payment formula set by the judge is intended to work and
to determine how the orders apply to intermediary banks and
other third parties. After Griesa rules on those issues, the
case will return to the appeals court for a review of his
decisions, Parker said.  Jonathan Blackman, a lawyer representing Argentina, didn’t
immediately return a phone message seeking comment on the
ruling. The Argentine state news agency Telam, however said the
country will appeal the ruling, citing Argentine Finance
Secretary Adrian Cosentino.  Peter Truell , a spokesman for Elliott, declined to comment.  In its decision, the appeals court said the equal
treatment, or pari passu, clause in the bond agreement means
that Argentina can’t subordinate the interests of the defaulted
bondholders to those of investors who chose to participate in
debt restructurings in 2005 and 2010.  The appeals court said its ruling is unlikely to hamper
other countries that may try to restructure their debt in the
future. Almost all the bonds issued since January 2005 that are
covered by New York law include “collective action clauses,”
provisions that allow a super-majority of bondholders to agree
on a debt restructuring that is binding on all holders,
according to the court.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Wells Fargo Loses Bid to Force Arbitration in Overdraft Case  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, lost a bid
to force the arbitration of customer disputes about overdraft
fees.  The bank can’t force arbitration after twice waiving its
right to do so, the U.S. Appeals Court based in Atlanta ruled on
Oct. 26, denying the bank’s motion to dismiss a class-action
lawsuit.  The court found that the bank put the customers through a
litigation process that lasted years and yielded about 900,000
documents before asserting its right to force the customers to
arbitrate their dispute.  “We’re disappointed with the ruling,” Richele Messick, a
Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. The
company will continue to defend its position in the litigation,
she said.  Customers have sued more than 30 banks claiming they
reordered overdrafts to maximize fees.  Bank of America Corp. 
agreed to pay $410 million last year to settle customer claims
and JPMorgan Chase & Co. reached a preliminary agreement in
February to pay $110 million to resolve a lawsuit. A suit
against other banks is pending in federal court in Miami.  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , declined a trial
court’s offer to arbitrate the disputes in November 2009 and
April 2010. The company filed a motion to dismiss five proposed
class-action, or group, lawsuits two days after the  Supreme
Court  ruled in April that federal law allows companies to compel
customers and employees to arbitrate claims individually,
trumping state laws that may bar such provisions.  Before the Supreme Court ruling, laws in some states made
arbitration provisions that contained class-action waivers
unenforceable, the bank said.  Wells Fargo acted “inconsistently” with the arbitration
right, the appeals court said.  “If we were to compel arbitration, the plaintiffs would
suffer substantial prejudice,” the court said.  The appeals case is Garcia v. Wachovia, 11-16029, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. The trial court case
is In Re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation, 09-md-02036,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  Adoboli Says He Booked Fake Trades to Conceal Profit, Losses  Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader accused of causing
the largest unauthorized trading loss in British history, said
he booked fake trades to hide profits and losses on real
transactions and others on his desk knew what he was doing and
helped him.  Adoboli, 32, first booked a so-called holding trade in late
2008 in order to take another off his desk’s book to hide the
risk, he testified on Oct. 26 as he took the stand for the first
time in his fraud trial.  “I had seen traders in my peer group and traders more
senior than me either hold positions off-book by not booking
them as soon as they did the trade, or by booking a covering
trade to take them beyond the first day or two,” Adoboli said
during testimony that lasted about four hours. “I don’t believe
that what we were doing was illegitimate.”  Adoboli is accused of booking fake hedges to hide the risk
of trades, causing the Swiss bank a $2.3 billion loss. He was
charged in September of last year with two counts each of fraud
and false accounting.  Prosecutors on Oct. 26 added two more false accounting
charges tied to his so-called umbrella account. He has pleaded
not guilty.  Adoboli tearfully told jurors that he neglected family and
friends, working as many as 16 hours a day and twice sleeping at
the office for the benefit of UBS’s exchange-traded-funds desk.  For more, click here.  Ex-Citic Pacific Executive Chui Convicted of Insider Trading  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) ’s former deputy head of finance Chui
Wing Nin was convicted of insider trading ahead of the
steelmaker and property developer’s 2008 profit warning.  Chui’s sale of Citic Pacific shares to avoid losses
“speaks for itself,” Magistrate Li Kwok-wai said Oct. 26 in
Hong Kong’s Eastern Magistrates’ Court.  Chui, now chief financial officer of  Agile Property
Holdings Ltd. (3383) , had pleaded not guilty to two counts of selling
Citic Pacific shares after becoming aware of the company’s
losses not yet made public. Citic Pacific, controlled by China’s
biggest state-owned investment company, fell 55 percent on Oct.
22, 2008, after disclosing potential losses of as much as
HK$15.5 billion ($2 billion) from wrong-way currency bets.  Chui sold a total of 81,000 shares on Sept. 9 and Sept. 12
and avoided losses of as much as HK$1.36 million, according to
Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission. “This was
blatant insider dealing,” the SFC’s executive director of
enforcement, Mark Steward, said in a statement.  Chui’s lawyer, Joseph Tse, said his client would consider
an appeal after considering factors including the sentence. He
faces as long as three years in prison in total for the two
counts under the magistrates  ordinance .  Another hearing in the case was scheduled for Nov. 27.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Chui Wing
Nin, ESS27729/2011 in Hong Kong’s Eastern Magistrates’ Court.  Interviews and Speeches  Finra Is Combining Firm Violations to Encourage Compliance  Brad Bennett, executive vice president and chief of
enforcement at the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, said
in an interview with Bloomberg News that Finra is combining
multiple violations against a firm into a single case.  The effort is intended to maximize the “deterrent effect”
of Finra’s enforcement actions, he said.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  