-- Clinton in Algeria Urges Crackdown on Mali Islamists
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-10-29T16:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/clinton-in-algeria-urges-crackdown-on-mali-islamists.html
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
urged Algeria’s president today to back regional action aimed at
routing Islamist extremists based in northern  Mali .  Clinton, on an 11-hour stop in Algiers, is the latest U.S.
official to visit North Africa’s most stable and prosperous
country to urge backing for a move against al-Qaeda’s African
affiliate, al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, or AQIM.  “We had an in-depth discussion of the region, particularly
the situation in Mali,” Clinton said today after meeting with
President Abdelaziz Bouteflika.  The U.S., France and other West African countries are
discussing the outline of a regional intervention in Mali, led
by troops from the Economic Community of West African States and
the African Union. Since gaining control of much of northern
Mali after a March coup that distracted the military and getting
access to weapons from post-revolutionary Libya, AQIM has grown
in strength.  Clinton said she and Bouteflika had “agreed to continue
with in-depth, expert discussions, to work together bilaterally
and with the region, along with the United Nations and the
African Union and ECOWAS to determine the most effective
approaches that we should be taking.”  Army General Carter Ham, the departing commander of the
U.S. Africa Command, has said kidnapping and smuggling have
turned AQIM into al-Qaeda’s “best-funded, wealthiest”
offshoot. Ham recently visited  Algeria  to make the case for
support of regional intervention as well.  Central Role  Algeria’s role in that effort would be central, said a
State Department official, who wasn’t authorized to be
identified.  Surrounding countries look to Algeria, the region’s
military and economic strongman, for leadership, the official
said. Algeria, which shares a 1,242-mile border with Mali, has
been wary that chaos caused by foreign intervention in Mali
could spill over into its territory.  Clinton said that Bouteflika had outlined for her “the
many complicated factors that have to be addressed to deal with
the internal insecurity in Mali and the terrorist and drug
trafficking threat that is posed to the region and beyond.”  The U.S. official said that, even with Algeria’s wariness,
its leaders increasingly have been speaking out against the
dangers of regional terrorism and are warming to the idea of
intervention.  Benghazi Ties  U.S. officials have been looking for any ties between Mali
Islamists and Libyan militants who were involved in the deaths
of four Americans in the U.S. consulate attack in Benghazi on
Sept. 11.  U.S. intelligence officials have said that some members of
Ansar al-Sharia, the group they have concluded carried out the
attack in Benghazi, have ties to al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb
or al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. They said there is no
clear evidence that either group helped plan, finance, order to
execute the assault.  On the contrary, three officials said, intercepted phone
calls indicate that a mid-level Ansar leader who is the main
link between the Libyan group and groups loosely affiliated with
al-Qaeda learned of the attack on the U.S. mission only after it
had begun or had ended.  Moreover, the groups in Yemen and northern  Africa  are self-
financed, have their own agendas, and are only loosely connected
to the remnants of the core al-Qaeda group in  Pakistan  led by
Ayman al-Zawahiri, the Egyptian who is Osama bin Laden’s
successor, according to the officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the intelligence is classified.  U.S. Military  The U.S. has expanded aerial surveillance operations across
Africa, including in Mali, as part of an effort to conduct
gather intelligence on Islamist groups such as AQIM, Nigeria’s
Boko Haram and other militant groups in Yemen,  Somalia  and
northern Africa, the U.S. intelligence officials said.  The Obama administration also has increased military aid to
nations in the region and conducted joint military exercises in
July with West African nations and  France . The U.S. military
also recently completed a two-week war-game exercise looking at
the terrorist threat and ways to combat it in West Africa and
the Maghreb, according to two defense officials. The exercise,
they said, suggested that the tactics that have been effective
against militants in Somalia may not be applicable elsewhere in
Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Algiers at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  