-- Colombia Peso Bond Yields Rise After Lending Rate Kept Unchanged
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-10-29T18:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/colombia-peso-bond-yields-rise-after-lending-rate-kept-unchanged.html
Colombia ’s peso bond yields rose the
most in seven months after the central bank left the overnight
lending rate unchanged, citing the expanding economy amid
growing domestic demand.  The yield on the 10 percent peso-denominated bonds due in
July 2024 climbed seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point,
to 6.10 percent, according to the central bank. That is the
biggest increase on a closing basis since March 14. The price
dropped 0.726 centavo to 132.011 centavos per peso.  “The central bank’s wording is more positive when it comes
to the global economy,” said Catalina Silva, a fixed-income
analyst at Cia. de Profesionales de Bolsa in Bogota. “The curve
is adjusting after the rate decision.”  Banco de la Republica, led by Jose Dario Uribe, held its
benchmark  interest rate  at 4.75 percent on Oct. 26, in line with
the forecasts of 28 of 35 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Seven
analysts forecast a quarter-point reduction. Uribe said the
decision to keep borrowing costs unchanged for a second month
wasn’t unanimous.  Policy makers have cut the key rate twice since June from
5.25 percent. Silva predicts the central bank will lower the
lending rate a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent by year-
end to buoy growth in the Andean economy.  “Data in September, especially regarding industrial
output, will be key in determining if another cut is needed,”
Silva said.  Output Data  Industrial production fell 1.9 percent in August, compared
with a median forecast calling for a 1.1 percent increase.
Retail sales rose 1.2 percent that month, trailing the median
projection of a 1.7 percent expansion. The national statistics
agency is slated to release the next report on production and
retail sales on Nov. 20.  The peso slipped 0.1 percent to 1,830.42 per  U.S. dollar ,
paring its rally this year to 5.9 percent.  The Colombian Treasury bought $641 million with oil
royalties in the year through Oct. 18, and this figure will rise
to about $1 billion by the end of the year, Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas , who is also president of the central bank’s
board, told reporters after the central bank’s meeting.  The Treasury has the option of buying more dollars above
this amount using its cash holdings if it chooses to do so,
Cardenas said.  The central bank purchased an average of $27 million daily
in the  spot market  since the last meeting on Sept. 28, Uribe
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  