-- Committing to Smart Trade With China
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-29T22:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/committing-to-smart-trade-with-china.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  keep promising to be tough on
China. Although their grievances are legitimate, simple-minded
China-bashing is a dumb way to pursue them. Both countries will
have to wise up if they want global trade to work to their
benefit.  Romney’s  pledge  to declare China a “currency manipulator”
as soon as he takes office is probably an empty threat. As
Romney well knows, such a move -- tantamount to imposing trade
sanctions -- would have little effect on China’s policies and
spark a trade war that would hurt the U.S. at least as much as
China.  That said, China does manipulate its currency. By
deliberately holding down the  exchange rate  of the  renminbi , it
has made its exports artificially cheap and done real harm to
producers in other countries, including the U.S. Although the
renminbi has appreciated by 11 percent since Obama took office,
the increase in China’s foreign reserves demonstrates that the
currency is still cheap. The country’s rising  dollar reserves 
also show how much China is still helping to finance the  U.S.
budget deficit  -- another complication for Americans who want to
get tough.  China, though, isn’t alone in managing its exchange rate to
boost exports. It just happens to be the biggest offender.
Others include  Japan , which is on track to edge out China as the
U.S. government’s largest creditor.  Global Balance  Hence, the U.S. needs to take a fairer, more comprehensive
approach in its efforts to restore global balance. Rather than
 singling China out , the U.S. should work toward bringing
currency policy under more effective review, either through the
 International Monetary Fund  or the  World Trade Organization .
Member countries should promise to allow movement of currencies
toward levels that would reduce trade imbalances. The WTO could
decide when and how to punish those who failed to comply -- an
approach that would insulate the process from political
vagaries, such as the outcome of the  U.S. presidential election .  The Chinese, for their part, should recognize that strong
multinational oversight is in their best interests. The WTO and
its predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,
were designed to help governments promote trade through
exchanges of concessions: You lower your import barriers, I’ll
lower mine. The idea that opening up to trade hurts your economy
unless you’re compensated for it is bad economics, but it’s good
domestic politics in that it helps contain protectionist
passions. That’s why the international trade-policy system has
worked so well. The WTO has been aptly described as a
disarmament treaty for mercantilists.  Unfortunately,  China  -- like many other WTO members --
seems more interested in  mercantilism  than disarmament. Since
the country made the bold move of joining the WTO in 2001, its
trade bureaucrats have settled into a narrow-minded litigating
mode, seeking gains where they can, using delay to shield
temporary trading advantages.  That’s a pity. China faces an enormous challenge in the
next few years as it rebalances its economy away from investment
and exports toward consumption and imports. Greater enthusiasm
for the underlying purposes of WTO membership would serve China
well as it seeks to curb protectionist sentiment at home and
withstand pressures from trade partners such as the U.S. It
would help to move domestic economic reform forward and deflect
the foreign criticism that China resents so acutely.  New Approach  A fuller commitment to the principles of WTO membership
would require a whole new approach. It can’t remain a selfish
user and gamer of the system. It can’t stand aside and let trade
negotiations fail, as it did during the latest  Doha Round . It
can’t concentrate on developing preferential trade agreements in
 Asia  -- deals that are true to the letter but not to the spirit
of the WTO rules. Rather, it should focus on strengthening an
international regime that offers the best guarantee of the
liberal trading order on which its prosperity will depend.  The global trading system suffers from  a lack of
leadership . The U.S.’s narrow focus on China’s bad behavior and
its own agenda of preferential trade deals underscores the
point. Although the multilateral system has survived the global
economic slump better than many expected, it’s no thanks to the
efforts of governments to strengthen it.  The U.S., as the architect of the WTO system, should
reaffirm its commitment to the larger idea. So should China.
Theirs is already the most important bilateral relationship in
the world. They can benefit themselves and everybody else by
forming a partnership to strengthen the multilateral trading
system. More goodwill and a lot more ambition on both sides will
be needed to make it happen.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  abortion, rape and politics ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  how Hurricane Sandy affects  the presidential
campaign;  Noah Feldman  on the  next U.S. president’s Supreme
Court picks ;  Edward Glaeser  on how  San Francisco beat Detroit  in
the economic race;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on whether  Romney is “going
soft” on Iran ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on his hopes for a  Romney
presidency ; A. Gary Shilling on the  beneficiaries of low
interest rates ; Richard Vedder on those stifling the  online
revolution in higher education .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 