-- Consumer Spending in U.S. Increases 0.8% as Incomes Climb
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-10-29T17:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/consumer-spending-in-u-s-increases-0-8-as-incomes-climb-0-4-.html
Consumer spending  in the U.S.
climbed more than forecast in September, a sign the biggest part
of the economy was picking up as the quarter drew to a close.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
gross domestic product, rose 0.8 percent, the most since
February, after advancing 0.5 percent in August, a Commerce
Department report showed today in Washington. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 71 economists called for a 0.6
percent gain. Incomes climbed 0.4 percent, the most since March.  The acceleration in spending may help the world’s largest
economy overcome a slowdown in exports and business investment
as global growth slackens and concern mounts about the so-called
fiscal cliff. At the same time, a drop in saving to finance
purchases indicates bigger gains in employment are required to
provide the income needed to sustain spending.  “The strength in September gives consumer spending a good
lift for the fourth quarter,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief
economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,  Connecticut .
“The housing market seems to have turned. Consumers are clearly
feeling better and are going out and spending a bit more.”  Equity markets in the U.S. were closed today as  Hurricane
Sandy  barreled toward  New York City . Risks posed by the storm,
expected to come ashore late today in southern  New Jersey  and
potentially affect 60 million people, were deemed too great to
require workers to travel.  Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year note yields to almost a
two-week low in an abbreviated trading session, amid concern the
storm will disrupt business and hurt the U.S. economic
expansion. Trading in bonds will be closed tomorrow.  Treasury Yields  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell to 1.72
percent at the 12 p.m. close in  New York  from 1.75 percent late
on Oct. 26.  The storm may subtract as much as 0.2 percentage point from
U.S. GDP in the fourth quarter as spending drops on services
such as restaurant meals, according to  Mark Vitner , a senior
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . Those types of purchases cannot be made up and may
overshadow any boost from a pickup in outlays on rebuilding from
the damage, he said.  Globally, retail sales in  Spain  dropped 11 percent in
September from a year ago, and government revenue gains in  China 
moderated, making it more complicated for public outlays to
stoke the economy this quarter.  Projections for U.S. consumer spending in the Bloomberg
survey ranged from gains of 0.3 percent to 0.8 percent.  The saving rate dropped to 3.3 percent, the lowest since
November, from 3.7 percent. Wages and salaries increased 0.3
percent after rising 0.1 percent in August.  Saving Rate  The drop in the saving rate indicates the gain in spending
“is not fully sustainable,” said Pierpont’s Stanley. “We’ll
see whether the consumer can keep it up.” After the report,
Stanley raised his forecast for spending in the fourth quarter
to about 2.5 percent from around the 2 percent he previously
estimated.  Disposable income, or the money left over after taxes, was
little changed in September after falling 0.3 percent after
adjusting for inflation.  Adjusting consumer spending for inflation, which renders
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, purchases
rose 0.4 percent after a 0.1 percent increase in the previous
month, today’s report showed.  Price-adjusted spending on durable goods, including
automobiles, climbed 1.3 percent after a 1.5 percent gain.
Purchases of non-durable goods, which include gasoline, rose 0.5
percent and services advanced 0.2 percent.  Third-Quarter Growth  The results shed more light on how household spending was
faring at the time of the hand-off to the final quarter of 2012.  GDP rose at a 2 percent annual rate from July through
September, up from a 1.3 percent pace in the prior quarter,
Commerce Department data showed last week. Consumer purchases
grew 2 percent, following a 1.5 percent gain.  Companies, on the other hand, are bracing for the fiscal
cliff, the $607 billion in spending cuts and tax increases that
are slated to take effect automatically next year unless
Congress acts.  Corporate spending on equipment and software was unchanged
last quarter, the weakest reading in three years, according to
the Commerce Department’s data issued last week.  Companies are also cutting forecasts on slowing growth in
Europe and  Asia . The trade deficit expanded as exports dropped,
subtracting 0.2 percentage point from third-quarter growth, last
week’s report showed.  Consumer Confidence  Cheaper  gasoline , a lower  unemployment rate  and an
improving housing market are lifting Americans’ moods. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index reached a six-month high in the
week ended Oct. 21. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
final gauge of sentiment advanced to the highest level since
September 2007, before the recession began.  Retail sales in September and August had the best back-to-
back showing since late 2010 as shoppers snapped up goods from
cars to Apple Inc.’s iPhones.  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-biggest
U.S. discounter, was among chains whose same-store sales last
month topped analysts’ estimates.  Some companies are seeing more caution among customers.
Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc., the Denver-based burrito chain,
reported third-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates
on slowing sales growth.  “We still don’t think the economy is in great shape,”
Montgomery Moran, co-chief executive officer, said on an Oct. 18
conference call with analysts. “Consumers seem to be a little
bit cautious right now.”  Employment and growth are central themes in the campaigns
of President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney 
ahead of the Nov. 6 elections.  Payroll Forecast  Later this week, the Labor Department may report payrolls
advanced by 125,000 in October after rising 114,000 the prior
month, according to the Bloomberg survey median. Unemployment
rose to 7.9 percent from a three-year low of 7.8 percent,
economists predicted.  “Household spending has advanced a bit more quickly,”
Federal Reserve policy makers said in a statement on Oct. 24
after their meeting. “Growth in employment has been slow.”  The central bank repeated it would press on with $40
billion in monthly purchases of mortgage-backed securities until
the labor market improves “substantially,” and reiterated
 interest rates  are likely to stay near zero “at least through
mid-2015.”  An index of inflation tied to spending patterns increased
1.7 percent from September 2011, compared with a 1.5 percent
gain in the 12 months ended in August, today’s report showed.  The so-called core price measure, which excludes food and
fuel, rose 0.1 percent from the prior month and was also up 1.7
percent over the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  