-- Consumers Spur Growth in U.S. as Exports Decline
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-10-29T14:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/consumers-spur-growth-in-u-s-as-exports-decline.html
The  U.S. economy  is being thrown
back on its own devices as sputtering global growth blunts
America’s efforts to use exports to help power its expansion
even as the value of the dollar hovers near a record low.  Exports fell last quarter for the first time in 3-1/2
years, according to Commerce Department figures released on Oct.
26, clipping growth by almost a quarter percentage point. The
shortfall was made up by increased  consumer spending , higher
government outlays and gains in residential construction. Gross
domestic product climbed at an annual rate of 2 percent in the
third quarter after rising 1.3 percent in the second.  The shift to domestic drivers of the expansion comes at an
opportune moment and may be a harbinger of better times in 2013,
especially if the rest of the world rebounds and the U.S. avoids
the so-called fiscal cliff of higher taxes and lower government
spending.  “The improvement in the domestic engines of growth will
allow us to muddle through the worries on the European side and
the Asian side and probably pick up pace next year,” said
 Joseph Carson , director of global economic research for
AllianceBernstein in  New York . He sees the economy expanding 2.8
percent in 2013 after rising 2.2 percent this year.  Most U.S. stocks retreated on Oct. 26 as investors watched
economic and corporate earnings reports. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index decreased 0.1 percent to 1,411.94 as the benchmark
measure extended its weekly decline to 1.5 percent. Equity
trading was cancelled in the U.S. today as  Hurricane Sandy 
barreled toward New York City.  Incomes Grow  Consumer spending climbed more than forecast in September
as incomes grew, a sign the biggest part of the economy was
picking up as the quarter drew to a close, according to Commerce
Department figures released today.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose 0.8 percent, the most since February, after a
0.5 percent gain the prior month. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 71 economists called for a 0.6 percent rise.
Incomes rose 0.4 percent, the most since March.  The pattern of growth so far in the three-year U.S.
recovery has been different than in the past, Carson said.
Housing and consumption, especially automobile demand,
traditionally lead the U.S. out of recessions as low  interest
rates  entice Americans into buying. That didn’t happen this time
because consumers were weighed down by debt and the housing
market was depressed.  China Rebound  Instead, exports and business investment, which usually
lag, powered growth early on, as manufacturers in particular
benefitted from a rapid economic rebound in  China  and other
emerging-market nations.  Now the drivers of the economy are shifting. Consumers have
reduced their debts -- household liabilities as a share of
income are at their lowest point since 2003, according to
 Federal Reserve  data -- and are stepping up spending.  Vehicle  sales  rose last month to a seasonally adjusted
annualized rate of 14.9 million, the highest since March 2008,
from 14.5 million in August, according to researcher Autodata
Corp. in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.  Housing also is picking up. Americans bought new homes in
September at the fastest pace in two years as sales climbed 5.7
percent, Commerce Department data showed last week.  “We’re seeing strength in areas that have been lagging,”
said Scott Anderson, chief economist at Bank of the West in San
Francisco, who correctly forecast third-quarter growth.  Europe Slump  Meanwhile, a slump in Europe and slower growth in China is
curbing foreign purchases of U.S. products. The trade deficit
widened 4.1 percent in August as exports fell to the lowest
level since February.  Weakness in the  dollar  didn’t prevent the 1.6 percent
decline in U.S. exports last quarter. The price-adjusted broad
dollar index compiled monthly by the Federal Reserve has fallen
by about a quarter over the past decade to 83.79 in September, 4
percent above its record low set in July of last year.  “Exchange-rate values have surprisingly little impact on
trade data,” said Mike Englund, chief economist of Action
Economics in Boulder, Colorado.  The global slowdown, along with concern about the fiscal
cliff -- more than $600 billion in  government spending  cuts and
tax increases that will kick in at the start of 2013 under
current legislation -- is prompting companies to cut back on
 capital expenditures , Anderson added.  Corporate Spending  Corporate spending on equipment and software was unchanged
in the third quarter, the weakest reading in three years,
according to last week’s GDP report.  The divergence between domestic and foreign demand was
evident in company earnings in the third quarter, with U.S.
businesses insulated from the rest of the world doing better
than those that are more dependent on sales to Europe and Asia.  Shares of  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s largest appliance
maker, reached the highest level in more than two years last
week after the company lifted its 2012 earnings forecast. The
 Benton Harbor , Michigan-based company received about 51 percent
of its revenue from  North America  in its 2011 fiscal year,
compared with 18 percent from Europe and 5 percent from Asia.  “We continue to see some early but consistent signs of
housing recovery, which makes us increasingly optimistic about a
more structural-demand recovery,” Marc Bitzer, president of
Whirlpool North America, said during an Oct. 23 earnings call.  Third-quarter sales in North America were up 2 percent from
the prior year. Excluding currency translation, sales dropped
about 10 percent in the Europe, Middle East and Africa.  Forecast Cut  By contrast,  DuPont Co. (DD) , the most valuable U.S. chemical
maker, posted a smaller-than-estimated third-quarter profit and
cut its forecasts, while announcing it will eliminate 1,500
jobs. Shares last week fell to the lowest level in 10 months.  “Current uncertainty in the global economic outlook,
softer demand in certain markets and strength in others, require
realigning business resources,”  Ellen Kullman , chairman and
chief executive officer of the Wilmington, Delaware-based
company, said during an Oct. 23 earnings call.  Thirty-five percent of DuPont’s 2011 fiscal-year revenue
came from the U.S., 26 percent from Europe and 23 percent from
the Asia-Pacific region. Third-quarter sales from continuing
operations were down 4 percent in the U.S. and Canada from a
year earlier and 12 percent in the rest of the world.  Recovery Seen  Jay Bryson , senior global economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte , North Carolina, and  Allen Sinai ,
chief executive officer of Decision Economics in New York, see
reason for some optimism for a recovery in exports.  China’s economy , the world’s second largest, looks to have
bottomed out after slowing for seven quarters, Sinai said, while
Europe “can’t be in a recession forever”  Couple that with pent-up demand in the U.S. for housing and
automobiles, and the economy is “laying the foundation for a
considerably stronger performance,”  Peter Hooper , a former Fed
official who is now chief economist for Deutsche Bank AG in New
York, said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Rich Miller in
Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  