-- Credit Suisse Said to Start Venture With Qatar
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2012-10-30T14:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/credit-suisse-said-to-start-asset-management-venture-with-qatar.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and a unit of
Qatar Investment Authority, the Persian Gulf emirate’s
sovereign-wealth fund, plan to start an asset-management joint
venture, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  The unit will be based in Doha and focus on  Middle East  and
North African investments, according to one of the people, who
asked not to be named and declined to give more details on the
venture, citing the sensitivity of the talks. The venture may be
announced this year after 12 months of negotiations between
Zurich-based Credit Suisse and Qatar, two people said. It will
also solicit third-party funds, according to one of the people.  Qatar and Credit Suisse are boosting ties after the nation
took a 6 percent stake in the bank and bought its  London 
headquarters. The country, which has the world’s third-largest
gas reserves, is snapping up assets across the globe as it seeks
to reduce its energy dependency and has $30 billion to invest
this year, QIA board member Hussain Al Abdulla said in April.  Credit Suisse may “see the opportunity to use the
relationships in the Gulf to build a business and cement the
relationship with Qatar, which has been a big capital
supporter,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at
Mediobanca SpA.  Growth Market  Economic expansion and high  oil prices  are driving
prosperity in the Middle East, boosting demand for wealth-
management services. The Qatari economy is set to expand 6
percent this year, the fastest pace in the Gulf Cooperation
Council, a survey of 12 economists compiled by Bloomberg shows.
That surpasses the expected average growth of 1.4 percent for
the Group of 10 industrialized nations.  Private wealth in the Middle East and  Africa  may rise 6.6
percent annually to $6.1 trillion in 2016 as the region’s oil-
rich economies continue to prosper, the  Boston Consulting Group 
said in June. Wealth in the region increased to $4.5 trillion
last year, up 4.7 percent from $4.3 trillion in 2010, the
consulting firm said.  Credit Suisse announced in November that it was planning to
expand its product offerings in Qatar in 2012 by providing
asset-management services to local and international investors,
once it had secured regulatory approvals. The bank’s board of
directors met in Qatar about a year ago, and the lender has also
been shifting staff to Doha from Dubai, two people familiar with
the matter said in September.  A spokesman for the QIA declined to comment. Sofia Rehman,
a spokeswoman at Credit Suisse, also declined to comment.  Emerging Markets  The venture will expand into other emerging and frontier
markets depending on its performance, one of the people said,
declining to say how the business would be capitalized.  The government-run Qatar Financial Center Authority,
charged with expanding the country’s financial services
industry, announced a strategy in 2010 to make Qatar a hub for
asset management as well as reinsurance.  Credit Suisse rose 2.8 percent to 21.81 Swiss francs at 3
p.m. in Zurich. Most bank stocks rose in  Europe  today after UBS
AG boosted its profit target and Deutsche Bank AG reported
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net . 