-- Credit Risk Rises for 8th Day as Hurricane Stymies Europe Bonds
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-10-29T11:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/credit-risk-rises-for-8th-day-as-hurricane-stymies-europe-bonds.html
Corporate credit risk jumped for an
eighth day in  Europe  amid signs of renewed splits about how to
solve the debt crisis, while the approach of Hurricane Sandy to
the U.S. eastern seaboard stymied bond issuance.  The  Markit iTraxx Crossover Index  of credit-default swaps
on 50 mostly junk-rated European companies rose eight basis
points to 543 at 11:11 a.m. in London, extending its longest run
of increases since August 2011. Bond sales were limited to re-
openings of existing transactions, with Carrefour Banque SA, the
finance unit of the French supermarket chain, and the European
Investment Bank raising money, according to people familiar with
the offerings.  Former Italian premier Silvio Berlusconi cast fresh doubt
over the future of incumbent Mario Monti this weekend by
threatening to withdraw his party’s support from the government.
Hurricane Sandy barreled toward  New York  City with 70-mile-per-
hour winds, keeping bankers from their desks and prompting the
Securities and Exchange Commission to close down stock trading.  “People are being drawn back to the political risk again
in  Italy  after Berlusconi’s comments,” said Harpreet Parhar, a
credit strategist at Credit Agricole SA in London.  Spanish gaming company Codere SA and French telecom
provider Alcatel Lucent SA were the worst performers in the
iTraxx Crossover index, rising 8 percent and 3 percent,
respectively, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. In the
investment-grade market, the  Markit iTraxx Europe  index of 125
companies climbed three basis points to 132, the highest since
Oct. 10, Bloomberg prices show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros ($13 million) of debt
from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in  London  at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  