-- CVC Capital’s Chairman Smith to Retire Before Fundraising
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-10-29T18:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/cvc-capital-s-chairman-smith-to-step-down-before-fundraising.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd., one of
Europe’s biggest private-equity firms, said  Michael Smith  will
step down as chairman in January as it prepares to raise as much
as 11 billion euros ($14 billion) for its latest fund.  Donald Mackenzie, Rolly Van Rappard and Steve Koltes, three
of the firm’s remaining founding partners, will take over as co-
chairmen, Mackenzie said in an interview today. Smith, who
joined the European unit of Citicorp Venture Capital in 1982 and
negotiated CVC’s spinoff in 1993, will turn 60 in January. He
will keep a stake of less than 5 percent in CVC, the firm said.  “The firm has always been run as a partnership and that
will continue as before,” Mackenzie said. “It’s not the end of
an era. It’s business as usual.”  CVC, which sold a stake in itself to three sovereign wealth
funds earlier this year, is preparing to start raising a fund in
January that may be as big as the 10.8 billion-euro pool it
amassed in 2008, according to people briefed on the talks who
declined to be identified because the fundraising is private.
Unlike U.S. competitors such as such as Blackstone Group and
Carlyle that have gone public, the closely held firm plans to
remain private.  “We’ve had debates,” Mackenzie said. “We like our
current status. Being private in many ways suits our type of
business.”  Mackenzie, 55, will chair the Luxembourg-based group’s
board meetings and continue to head the investment and portfolio
committees for Europe and  Asia , whose decisions include new
investments and asset sales.  Formula One  He joined the firm in 1988, and led CVC’s investment in
Formula One motor racing, the private-equity firm’s most-
profitable holding in the past 12 months. The firm has already
reaped more than $4 billion on its original investment of $1
billion, and expects to make as much as $7 billion from the
holding ultimately, Mackenzie said today. CVC will next year
review its options for selling its remaining holding through an
initial public offering, he said.  Last year, Mackenzie became chairman of the European
investment committee, which oversees the firm’s 10.8 billion-
euro fund. He also became head of the firm’s Asian committee
this year, which runs a $4.1 billion fund.  Koltes, 56, will take over Smith’s responsibilities for
dealing with investors and fundraising, while Van Rappard, 52,
will continue to oversee the firm’s day-to-day operations.  Evonik, Elster  Koltes, an American national, led the acquisitions of
stakes in companies including German chemicals maker Evonik
Industries AG and metering company Elster Group SE. The firm
reaped more than four times its initial investment after selling
Elster to Melrose Plc in June.  Van Rappard has been in charge of acquisitions in  Belgium ,
the Netherlands and  Luxembourg , where the firm acquired holdings
in the Belgian Post, and chemical distributor Univar NV. The
firm plans to sell Univar in the next 12 months, Mackenzie said.  Hardy McLain, who joined CVC in 1988, will retire at the
end of the year after turning 60. Also a founding partner, he
focuses on investments in southern  Europe . Iain Parham, the
firm’s last founding partner, will remain with the firm.  Mackenzie, Koltes and Van Rappard have committed to remain
with the firm until about 2020, Mackenzie said. There’s no
retirement age policy as long as partners contribute to the
firm, he said.  “If you look at the firm as 16 managing partners, that’s
the succession of the firm. In those 16, the future is,”
Mackenzie said. “We know who they are, they think they know who
they are.”  70 Shareholders  The firm has about 70 shareholders, compared with the six
founding partners in 1993, Mackenzie said. Two-thirds of the
company is now owned by non-founding partners, he added.  Under Smith, CVC raised nine funds totalling $50 billion.
Its European funds have delivered annual returns of 7 percent to
41 percent, according to  March data  from the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System , an investor.  CVC’s latest fund, raised in 2008, had an 11 percent net
annual return, more than the 6.6 percent median for funds raised
the same year. The firm’s previous fund, raised in 2005 and
invested during the leveraged-buyout boom, is expected to return
more than 25 percent annually, Mackenzie said.  CVC has delivered mixed returns in Asia, where the firm
lost its A$1.77 billion ($1.8 billion) investment in Nine
Entertainment Co., when it this month ceded control of
 Australia ’s second-largest television network to creditors. The
firm had written down the investment to zero in 2009.  Asia Fundraising  The company plans to start raising a new fund for Asia in
June or July next year, Mackenzie said today.  The firm’s investment in Formula One has also been a source
of controversy: German prosecutors claimed in June  Bernie Ecclestone , the sport’s chief executive officer, sent $44
million to a Bayerische Landesbank executive in exchange for the
2005 sale of the German lender’s stake to CVC.  Mackenzie appeared in a Munich court in January to say he
wasn’t informed about the payments. Former Bayerische Landesbank
Chief Risk Officer Gerhard Gribkowsky appealed in July a verdict
sentencing him to more than eight years in prison. Ecclestone,
81, claims he was blackmailed. He remains under investigation
and hasn’t been charged with a crime.  While CVC’s partners were “irritated” by the case, they
decided to back Ecclestone, Mackenzie said.  “He is the most competent man to run Formula One at the
moment,” Mackenzie said. “He’s innocent until proven guilty.”  Sovereign Funds  Buyout firms such as CVC typically use loans secured on the
targets they acquire to finance more than half of the purchase
price and cash from their own funds for the rest. The firms seek
to improve performance at the companies they acquire or expand
them before selling them within about five years.  CVC sold a 10 percent stake in itself to three sovereign
wealth funds, the  Kuwait Investment Authority , the Government of
Singapore Investment Corp. and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
The firm plans to use some the proceeds to expand its credit
businesses as it seeks to diversify from buyouts to generate a
steadier income flow.  In January, CVC bought Resource America Inc.’s leveraged-
loan investment division to combine it with its own Cordatus
unit which it started in 2006. The firm is also seeking 300
million euros for its first infrastructure fund.  “The core strategy will remain primarily private equity,”
Mackenzie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  