-- Democrats Hold Early-Voting Advantage Over Republicans
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-10-29T20:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/democrats-hold-early-voting-advantage-over-republicans.html
In two of the most competitive
states in the U.S. presidential race --  Iowa  and Nevada --
Democrats are building a significant advantage in early voting.  Who has the edge is more muddled in the bigger swing states
of  Ohio  and  Florida , while Republicans have a narrow lead in
 Colorado . Early, in-person voting started in Florida over the
weekend, and dozens of Democrats in Tallahassee marched five
blocks from a church to an early-voting site yesterday, chanting
“Vote early.”  Almost 15 million people have already cast ballots
nationwide, according to the United States Elections Project at
 George Mason University  in Fairfax, Virginia. Both parties are
spinning their versions of what the turnout means as they seek
to project momentum in a contest where more than a third of the
nation’s vote probably will be cast before Election Day, Nov. 6.  “The data are confirming what we are seeing in the
polling, which is that these state races are going to be
narrower than in 2008,” said  Michael McDonald , a professor at
 George Mason  who studies early voting.  In Iowa, more than 470,000 people had cast ballots through
Oct. 27, according to the Iowa secretary of state’s office. If
as many people vote this year as did in 2008, that would
represent 30 percent of the total vote. Registered Democrats
have cast 44.6 percent of the ballots so far, compared with 32
percent by Republicans and 23.3 percent by independents.  Polls Versus Voting  “The main thing is not to look at the polling but to look
at the voting,”  David Axelrod , a senior campaign strategist for
President  Barack Obama , said yesterday on  CNN ’s “ State of the
Union ” program. “We are mounting up a very, very large lead in
Iowa based on where those early votes are coming from.”  By the end of this week, McDonald said the proportion of
early voting in Iowa, as compared with 2008’s total vote, could
grow to 45 percent. If current trends for ballots requested and
returned remain unchanged through this week, he said, Obama’s
advantage could become almost insurmountable for Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney .  “That’s got to be troubling for Romney,” McDonald said.
“Election Day would have to be a Republican parade for Romney
to win the state.”  In Colorado, Florida, Iowa and North Carolina, Obama banked
so many early votes in 2008 that he won those states even though
he ran behind in each in votes cast on Election Day itself,
according to voting data compiled by the  Associated Press .  Nevada Balloting  Thus far in Nevada, where an even larger proportion of the
vote has been cast than in Iowa when compared with the 2008
vote, Democrats have accounted for 45 percent, according to an
update today from the  Nevada secretary of state’s office .
Republicans represent 37 percent and independents 18 percent.  Republicans have a slim edge in Colorado’s early voting,
according to data released today by the secretary of state’s
office there. Of the vote turned in so far, 38 percent is from
registered Republicans, while Democrats represent 36 percent and
independents 24.5 percent.  Early, in-person voting started in Colorado on Oct. 22, a
week after absentee voting. About a third of the total 2008 vote
has now been cast.  Sandy’s Impact  Although  Hurricane Sandy ’s path toward the East Coast
already has altered the final days of candidate travel in the
presidential race, it should have minimal impact on early
voting.  Other than Florida and North Carolina, which aren’t
directly in the storm’s path, the swing states with the greatest
tradition and activity for early voting aren’t along the East
Coast.  In Virginia, Governor  Bob McDonnell  said 15 to 20 of the
state’s local registrars’ offices have closed so far due to the
storm, preventing some voters from casting absentee ballots. To
make up for lost hours, McDonnell told reporters he is asking
local officials to offer extended hours after the storm passes.  Among swing states with early voting and party-affiliation
voter registration, Democrats have their biggest advantage in
North Carolina, where the party held its national convention and
people can register and vote in one stop at various locations.
The party has recorded 48.3 percent of the early vote, compared
with 31.9 percent for Republicans and 19.9 percent for
independents, according to the elections project’s data.  Democrats also held a large early-vote lead in 2008, with
Obama, 51, ultimately winning  North Carolina  by fewer than
14,000 votes that year. This year, the  Republican National
Committee   says  its party has added almost 60,000 early votes to
what it had accrued at the same time four years ago, boosting
Romney, 65.  Banking Votes  The popularity of early voting is growing nationally, and
Republicans and Democrats alike are seeing an increase from four
years ago. Both parties are working to bank as many votes as
possible so they can focus on late-deciders and others in the
final week. Republicans say they’re placing their greatest
emphasis on low-propensity voters -- those less likely to show
up on Election Day.  Sometimes compared to a water spigot’s flow that starts out
slowly and gradually grows more robust, early voting will
continue to accelerate as Election Day nears, based on prior
patterns. The associated data, which for now is a relatively
small sample, will also become more predictive of what’s
happening.  In 2008, about 30 percent of Americans voted before
Election Day. That number is projected to grow to at least 35
percent this year, McDonald said.  Florida Vote  In Florida, only absentee balloting was available until
this past weekend. Almost 1.9 million Floridians cast early and
absentee ballots as of this morning, according to the Florida
State Department. Democratic voters cast 42.2 percent of those
ballots, slightly more than Republicans who accounted for 41.2
percent.  Among only absentee ballots in Florida through Oct. 27,
Republicans cast 44 percent, while Democrats accounted for 39
percent, according to numbers from the Florida Democratic Party
and Romney’s campaign. That 5-percentage-point advantage is down
from a 15-point Republican edge at this point four years ago.
Republicans have dominated absentee voting in recent Florida
elections; Democrats have traditionally offset that with higher
turnout at early-voting polling places.  ‘Souls’ to Polls  Black voters are “galvanized” after Republican state
lawmakers eliminated early voting in Florida on the Sunday
before Election Day -- a day when traditionally black churches
held “souls to the polls” events, said retired teacher Bill
Tucker in Tallahassee.  “We had all the excitement four years ago, and we’re
trying to get that back,” said Tucker, 72, outside the Leon
County Courthouse and near a line of more than 80 voters.  In the swing states of Ohio, Virginia and Wisconsin, voters
don’t register by party, so it’s less clear which party has the
early-voting edge. Still, the early balloting can be viewed on a
geographic basis and compared with 2008 election results.  McDonald said he expects more than 40 percent of Ohio’s
voting to be done before Election Day, while the percentage of
Virginia’s early voters will be in the “low teens.”  Obama Ohio Edge  Early, in-person voting started Oct. 2 in Ohio, and already
more than 1 million people have voted in a state where 5.7
million did so in 2008. A Time magazine  poll  of likely Ohio
voters last week showed Obama with a 2-to-1 lead, 60 percent to
30 percent, among those who have already voted.  Obama’s campaign is banking large numbers of votes in Ohio
counties that backed him four years ago. In Franklin County,
which includes Columbus, 141,019 people had already voted
through Oct. 26, according to the local election board. That
represents about a quarter of the county’s total vote in 2008,
when 44 percent of the vote was cast before Election Day.  In Cuyahoga County, which includes  Cleveland  and its
suburbs, 161,889 had cast early ballots as of the end of last
week, also about a quarter of the 2008 vote.  Ohio early voters favored Democratic candidates in 2010 and
2006, while Election Day voters favored Republican candidates, a
study of early voting by the University of Akron concluded.
Early voters were more likely to be women, older, and of lower
income and education attainment, the 2010  study  said.  Convenience Issue  “The primary reason for early voting is convenience, and
many of the groups for whom convenience is a big issue tend to
lean Democratic,” said  John Green , a political science
professor at the University of Akron.  In Virginia, the early vote so far has been minimal, with
just 6.6 percent of the 2008 vote recorded, according to the
project’s compilation of state data. New Hampshire doesn’t have
early in-person voting.  Democrats and Republicans alike have been encouraging early
voting in states that allow it. Obama canceled an absentee
ballot he’d already received so that he could cast his ballot in
person early in his Chicago precinct, trying to make the point
to his supporters of how easy it is to do.  Republicans say many of their core voters, including senior
citizens, prefer to vote on Election Day, as they have done for
decades. Party officials say they aren’t making any big effort
to get those voters to the polls early.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  