-- Denmark Won’t Support Vestas Through Financial Hardship
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-10-29T11:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/denmark-won-t-support-vestas-through-financial-hardship.html
The Danish government won’t provide
direct support to  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  should the world’s
biggest maker of  wind turbines  need a bailout to stay afloat.  Aarhus, Denmark-based Vestas, which has been  hurt  by
higher-than-budgeted costs to develop its V112 turbine and cuts
in green energy subsidies, said in July it agreed with its banks
to defer a so-called test of financial covenants, delaying loan
payments after losses eroded its  cash flow . The government is
now saying it won’t step in to bridge any periods of financial
distress at the company to prevent it going bankrupt.  “We cannot and will not support a single company,” said
Martin Lidegaard, Denmark’s Energy Minister, in an e-mailed
reply to questions. “It is against the government’s general
state aid policy.”  Vestas in 2012 announced two rounds of job cuts that hit
more than 3,700 employees, or a sixth of its workforce, to
reduce fixed costs by more than 250 million euros ($323
million). The company is struggling to stay competitive as it
faces declining demand in  Europe  and the U.S.  The world’s largest wind turbine maker would consider
selling about 500 million euros in shares to existing investors
if talks on a strategic cooperation with  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011)  fail, said two people with knowledge of the
matter last month.  Shares Sink  Shares in Vestas sank as much as 3 percent to their lowest
since Aug. 16, and were 2.9 percent down at 29.84 kroner as of
12:30 p.m. in Copenhagen, making it today’s worst performer in
the country’s benchmark OMXC20 index. The stock has lost 52
percent this year, versus a 26 percent increase in the OMXC20.  The government’s position means Vestas’ clients will start
speculating on how reliable a supplier the company is, according
to  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at Sydbank A/S.  “Some turbine buyers will see Vestas as having a weaker
financial strength,” Pedersen said by phone today. It’s now
clear that “the white knight that some clients had assumed was
there to justify using Vestas as a supplier won’t come,” he
said.  Denmark, which is also home to the wind power division of
Europe’s biggest engineering company  Siemens AG (SIE) , has set itself
a goal of becoming a hub for new developments in green energy
technologies, Lidegaard said.  No Discrimination  Still, the government won’t favor local suppliers in
tenders and will base any decisions solely on competitive
considerations, the minister said.  “Price will be the determining criterion,” in  Denmark ’s
plan to tender new offshore farms with a capacity of 1,000
megawatts,” Lidegaard said. “There will be no
discrimination.”  Shares in Vestas  rose  earlier this month after Danish Prime
Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt said tough economic conditions
shouldn’t deter investment in renewable energy. Denmark plans to
get half of its  energy supply  from wind by 2020, installing 3300
megawatts of new turbines with 1,500 MW offshore and 1,800
onshore.  Denmark’s wind industry, which employs about 25,500 people,
made up 6.4 percent of the country’s industrial exports in 2011,
reaching total sales of $8.96 billion, according to the Danish
Wind Industry Association. Vestas’ European sales reached $3.3
billion last year, compared with total revenue of $7.5 billion.  Outside Denmark, austerity is weighing on subsidies for
renewable energy in crisis-stricken Europe and the outlook for
turbine makers is hampered by the expiration of tax breaks in
the U.S. Increased supply of natural gas is also hurting demand
for  wind energy .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  