-- Deutsche Boerse’s Third-Quarter Profit Falls on Slower Trading
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-10-29T19:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/deutsche-boerse-s-third-quarter-profit-falls-on-slower-trading.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , the German
exchange blocked from buying  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  by European
regulators in February, said third-quarter profit fell as
trading declined.  Net income fell 50 percent to 159.9 million euros ($206.3
million) compared with 317 million euros in the same period a
year earlier, the Frankfurt-based exchange said in a statement
today. Revenue fell 19 percent to 471 million euros.  Deutsche Boerse is focusing on expanding current operations
after regulators vetoed the merger with NYSE Euronext amid
concern the combination would hurt competition in derivatives
and clearing. The German company agreed to buy its New York-
based rival in a deal valued at $9.53 billion when announced in
February 2011.  “We are planning a further increase in investments for the
next financial year, to further accelerate the development of
infrastructure and expansion into new growth areas,” Gregor
Pottmeyer, chief financial officer of the exchange, said in the
statement. “At the same time we are systematically continuing
the strict management of operating costs that began well before
the financial crisis.”  Deutsche Boerse  shares fell 1.4 percent to 41.15 euros
today in Frankfurt.  Deutsche Boerse is moving its Eurex derivatives exchange to
a new trading system as it develops a standalone strategy. The
company completed the acquisition of Eurex,  Europe ’s largest
derivatives exchange, from SIX Group AG in April.  NYSE Euronext is due to report earnings next week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  