-- Dubai Oasis Drying Up as Property Rally Nears Edge: Arab Credit
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-10-29T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/dubai-oasis-drying-up-as-property-rally-nears-edge-arab-credit.html
The rally that sent real estate
company bond yields in Dubai to record lows risks petering out
because the emirate’s property recovery may not be broad enough
to justify further price gains.  Dubai Holding Commercial Operations’ January 2014 and
February 2017 bonds were cut to hold from buy at Exotix Ltd.
after yields fell to the lowest since 2007 this month.  Emaar
Properties PJSC (EMAAR) ’s August 2016 note yields rose nine basis points
to 4.44 percent yesterday since Oct. 23, when the company
reported third-quarter profit that missed estimates. Property
company Nakheel PJSC’s 10 percent sukuk, or Islamic bonds, due
June 2016 have “little upside potential,” Exotix said.  A nascent real estate recovery in Dubai has been limited to
a few areas in the emirate, which suffered a property slump in
the past four years causing values to fall by as much as 65
percent. While the pick up is set to continue, opportunities in
the  bond market  are limited at current prices, Exotix,  National
Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD)  and  Emirates Investment Bank PJSC (EIBANK)  say.  “The recovery has been in selective areas, not broad-
based,” Gus Chehayeb, Dubai-based director for  Middle East 
research at Exotix, said by phone Oct. 29. “I don’t think
there’s substantial value remaining in the real estate credit
space, especially compared to the bargains we saw over the past
three years.”  Empty Units  Investor optimism in Dubai’s recovery gained ground this
year as sale prices for villas and apartments jumped and retail
and tourism industries extended their best year since the crash.
The average price of a mid-range villa and high-end apartment in
the city advanced 27 percent and 14 percent, respectively, in
September, according to data from property broker Cluttons LLC.  The emirate’s property industry isn’t out of the woods. A
quarter of residential units are empty and an additional 25,000
are due to be completed in 2013,  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) 
estimates show.  The number of property transactions jumped by 50 percent in
the first half of 2012 from the year earlier, according to Dubai
Land Department data. Even so, the value of the purchases is 74
percent less than the first half of 2008, prior to the crash
that started later that year.  ‘Highly Levered’  Government-owned Nakheel, developer of artificial islands
shaped like the world map and fronds of a palm tree, has seen
its bonds rally this year as profit at the company surged 83
percent in the first nine months. The yield on the debt maturing
in August 2016 has tumbled 794 basis points, or 7.94 percentage
points, this year to 10.37 percent yesterday. That compares with
the 294 basis-point drop to 2.64 percent in the yield on Dubai’s
6.396 percent sukuk due November 2014.  “I wouldn’t be accumulating large positions at these
prices,” said Yaser Abushaban, director of asset management at
Emirates Investment Bank. “Accumulation would have been advised
when they were priced much lower, specifically when you look at
higher-yielding names,” including Nakheel.  Exotix reiterated a hold recommendation on Nakheel’s August
2016 notes, saying the developer hasn’t released audited
earnings since 2008 and “is still highly levered post
restructuring.” The builder, which wrote down the value of its
real estate by $21 billion from late 2008 through mid-2010, got
an $8.6 billion bailout from the Dubai government in 2009 to
help avoid default.  Trading at Premium  Emaar, developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper, posted
a  5 percent decline  in third-quarter profit as revenue fell 12
percent. The company’s 8.5 percent sukuk maturing in August 2016
yielded 4.43 percent yesterday compared with 8.2 percent at the
end of 2011 and the bonds trade at a Z-spread, a measure of
credit risk, of 365 basis points, compared with about 440 for
similarly rated companies tracked by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s BB Global  Emerging Markets  Credit Index.  “I don’t think such a premium is warranted,” Chehayeb at
Exotix said. “The market is now trading Emaar almost as if it’s
a risk-free asset” and the sukuk “is trading very rich
compared to equivalently rated emerging market peers.”  The economy of Dubai, one of seven emirates that comprise
the  United Arab Emirates , is making a comeback and its  default
risk  tumbled as several state-linked companies restructured or
paid debt this year. Economic growth will accelerate to 5
percent this year from 3 percent in 2011, according to
government forecasts.  ‘Selected Stability’  Dubai’s five-year credit default swaps fell 200 basis
points this year to 246 on Oct. 26, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. That
outpaced the 68 basis-point decline to 261 in the average for
contracts in the Middle East and North Africa.  “There have been some signs of selected stability in the
real estate market, and that has created a lot of investor
optimism,” said Nick Stadtmiller, head of fixed income research
at  Emirates NBD PJSC. (EMIRATES)   Still, Dubai has more than $17 billion of bonds and loans
maturing in 2013 and 2014, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Emaar, which still generates most of its revenue
domestically, is also vulnerable to political developments in
countries including  Syria , where it’s expanding, and  Egypt ,
where it plans to invest more than 5 billion pounds ($819
million). The yield on Emaar’s 7.5 percent notes maturing in
December 2015 rose 13 basis points to 3.57 percent yesterday
since hitting a record low a week earlier.  “In terms of risk-reward, much of the juice has already
been extracted on some of these names,” Chavan Bhogaita, head
of the markets strategy group at  National Bank of Abu Dhabi , the
U.A.E.’s second-biggest bank, said by e-mail yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  