-- Dutch VVD, Labor Reach Cabinet Deal, $20 Billion in Cuts
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-10-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/dutch-vvd-labor-reach-cabinet-deal-20-billion-in-cuts.html
The Dutch Liberal and Labor parties
reached an agreement to form a government, pledging to revamp
the housing and labor markets and cut the budget by about 16
billion euros ($20.6 billion) in the next four years.  “This package will affect everyone,” caretaker Prime
Minister  Mark Rutte  told journalists in The Hague yesterday as
he announced the deal with Labor. “Economic growth is on a
structurally lower level in the Netherlands and we can’t pass on
the bill to future generations.”  Rutte and Labor leader Diederik Samsom agreed to cut tax
rebates on mortgages by 0.5 percentage point annually until 2040
and allow rent for people who have an income of more than 43,000
euros to go up. Development aid will be cut by 1 billion euros
and health-care premiums will become dependent on income.  The Liberals, known as the VVD, and Labor, the two largest
parties in Parliament after the Sept. 12 elections, started
negotiations on the formation of a new government nine days
after the vote. It will be the first time in Dutch political
history the two parties have formed an administration on their
own.  “We felt the same urgency as the crisis is still raging,
it’s not over yet,” Samsom said. “We were both willing to do
something about it and we succeeded.” The  Labor Party  will vote
on the agreement at a Nov. 3 party convention while Liberal
lawmakers already approved it. Rutte will seek ministers to
complete his Cabinet and the swearing in of his government could
take place next week.  Strict Budget  Rutte and Samsom pledged to continue a strict budget
policy. Under the government plan, the deficit is seen at 2.6
percent in 2013, revised from an earlier forecast of 2.7
percent, the Central Planning Agency said. For 2017, the deficit
will be reduced to 1.5 percent, according to the CPB. The Dutch
economy, the fifth-largest in the euro area, will grow annually
1.25 percent for the period 2013-2017, down from a previous
forecast of 1.5 percent, the CPB said.  The government will take office as  Europe  faces crucial
negotiations on  Greece  and the European Union’s budget. European
officials are waiting for  Spain  to decide whether trigger a
bailout plan unveiled by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  in September and designed to draw a line under the
region’s debt crisis.  Rutte said he’s awaiting a report on Greece’s progress in
meeting internationally agreed targets compiled by the troika of
the European Commission, the  International Monetary Fund  and the
ECB.  Samsom said more aid for Greece will depend on whether
“Greece will take its responsibility in the right manner.”
Both Rutte and Samsom want the troika report before commenting
further. Rutte’s Liberal party and Labor mostly agreed during
the first Rutte government on its approach toward Greece and
solutions for Europe’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  