-- LME Copper Stockpiles Jump the Most in Four Years on Antwerp
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-10-29T13:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/lme-copper-stockpiles-jump-the-most-in-four-years-on-antwerp-2-.html
Copper stockpiles in warehouses
monitored by the London Metal Exchange jumped the most in four
years after deliveries of the metal into Antwerp,  Belgium ,
helping send prices to a seven-week low.  Copper inventories rose 9.4 percent to 240,450 metric tons,
the biggest jump since Sept. 5, 2008, with 21,300 tons shipped
into Antwerp, data from the bourse showed today. Stockpiles in
the Belgian city are the highest since Feb. 11, 2000, the data
showed. Lead and zinc inventories in Antwerp surged to the
highest level since at least 1994, according to the data.  The copper delivery to Antwerp “has hurt sentiment,
highlighting the apparent abundance of refined units and current
levels of weak demand,”  Leon Westgate , an analyst at Standard
Bank Plc said in a report today. “The key will be whether
today’s inflow was a one-off, or the start of a trend. If it is
the latter, it may well be bearish for prices, but ultimately
bullish for premiums.”  Copper for three-month delivery dropped as much as 1.6
percent to $7,698 a ton on the London Metal Exchange, the lowest
level since Sept. 7. The LME has more than 600 registered
warehouses in locations from Singapore to the U.S. that are
intended to ensure metal deliveries against futures.  The copper was likely diverted to Antwerp from  China  and is
probably “tightly held,” Westgate wrote. It may end up getting
stuck in queues that are already affecting other LME warehouses,
thus ultimately reducing availability in the market, he said.  Copper Consumers  “It will be interesting to see how the situation evolves
should copper consumers, concerned about the global economy,
look to take less metal on long-term contract next year and
decide to take more exposure to the spot premium market,”
Westgate wrote.  Buyers in  Singapore  are paying a premium for zinc of $110 a
ton, the most in at least 10 years, and a $95-a-ton premium for
lead, more than twice the average over the past decade, Metal
Bulletin  data  on Bloomberg show. The premiums are added to the
price of metal on the LME.  Antwerp has 59 warehouses authorized by the LME to store
metals. Removing metal earmarked for delivery there may take as
long as 57 days, Bloomberg calculations show. The wait for metal
in  Detroit  is 48 weeks, and 57 weeks in Vlissingen, the
calculations show.  “It’s a continuation of the trend that we’ve seen in terms
of metal going in over the past few months” into Antwerp, Gayle
Berry, an analyst at Barclays Plc. in  London , said by phone
today. “It’s becoming similar to some other locations whereby
queues are beginning to form for some of the metals.”  Lead stockpiles jumped 5.3 percent to 326,675 tons as
inventory in Antwerp surged by 16,425 tons. Zinc inventory rose
2.7 percent to 1.17 million tons with 34,275 tons added in
Antwerp, the data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  