-- The Unholy Alliance Against Online Learning
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V e d d e r
-- 2012-10-29T22:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/the-unholy-alliance-against-online-learning.html
I am teaching my college course in
American  economic history  the same way I did 47 years ago, which
is similar to the way Socrates taught 2,400 years ago. I am far
from unique.  There is nothing wrong with this, but the  lack  of
productivity improvements in higher education today helps
explain the rising cost of college. That may change with the
innovative use of new technologies, which show promise in
offering high-quality instruction at a low cost. Unfortunately,
 government regulation  and accrediting organizations may slow
that progress.  In  Minnesota  recently, the Office of Higher Education
announced that no one could offer courses unless the state
authorized them. Authorization involved filling out forms,
getting bureaucratic approval and paying a fee. Since the online
venture Coursera didn’t do any of that, the education office
insisted that Coursera update its “ terms of service ” to inform
Minnesotans that they couldn’t take Coursera’s classes or, if
they did, they had to complete most work outside the state.  The rule lasted one day.  News  of the clampdown led to a
national outcry, and the restrictions were quickly lifted,
allowing time for the Minnesota Legislature to update its
education statutes. Coursera  restored  its normal terms of
service.  More Challenges  It and other organizations such as Udacity, edX, the  Saylor
Foundation  and StraighterLine offer free or low-cost digital
instruction of relatively high quality. Coursera, founded by two
Stanford University professors, has joined with prestigious
private universities (including Princeton, Columbia, Brown,
 Pennsylvania ,  Johns Hopkins , Stanford and Duke) as well as top
state schools (such as the universities of  Florida ,  Illinois ,
Maryland,  Michigan ,  Virginia  and  Washington ) to offer large
numbers of courses -- now about 200.  EdX , a consortium that
involves Harvard, MIT, the  University of California  at Berkeley,
and the  University of Texas , is doing the same thing.  The Minnesota rule was short-lived, but there will be other
 challenges . The federal government fought for two years to make
all online providers get authorization in every state where they
have students, a prohibitively expensive process for smaller
operators. Fortunately, the courts have forced the Education
Department to back off.  Unfortunately, there may be less recourse when it comes to
accrediting organizations that have done their bit to restrict
competition in higher education.  Ashford University , an online
for-profit institution with about  75,000  students, is an easy
target. Although it is fully accredited in the Midwest by the
 Higher Learning Commission , it was  denied  accreditation for the
same educational offerings by the Western Association of Schools
and Colleges, which is located nearer the San Diego headquarters
of the university’s parent company,  Bridgepoint Education Inc. (BPI) 
One objection involves the compensation of the institution’s
employees, the  subject  of a Justice Department investigation.  I am not taking these concerns lightly, yet consider that
the Bridgepoint Education, as a publicly traded company,
operates under multiple levels of scrutiny. Traditional not-for-
profit private universities, meanwhile, are largely  unmonitored ,
and the issue of its employees’ compensation seldom arises.  Bridgepoint’s stock has plunged to  less than  $10, well
below the $30 it traded for at one point last year. This means
about $1 billion in market value has been lost. Tens of
thousands of students are no doubt concerned.  Accreditation Discrepancies  How can a program be acceptable in one region but be held
deficient in others? Is this more an indictment of Bridgepoint
or of the crazy-quilt nature of American accreditation?  Critics 
of Ashford point to a high dropout rate -- about 80 percent --
but many traditional brick-and-mortar universities have four-
year graduation rates that are less than 15 percent. What
standards are the accrediting agencies using?  The discrepancies point to a conflict. U.S. political
leaders and wealthy foundations (the Gates and  Lumina 
foundations, in particular) say we need to increase the number
of college students to promote equal educational and economic
opportunity, while reining in the rapid inflation in college
costs. But other powerful forces will work to control
competition in higher education and are raising barriers to
offering college at an affordable price, whether it is a for-
profit such as Ashford or a venture such as  Udacity , which plans
to get its revenue from employers who use it to identify
potential job applicants.  The financial value of a university degree comes from the
diploma. Employers see that a student has met certain standards.
All the degree represents, however, is the certification that a
student has completed a package of courses, typically 40 to 50.
Universities are in the business of packaging courses into
degrees.  The advent of “ massively open online ” courses presents an
opportunity to new packagers who come along and, after
evaluating the quality and non-duplication of courses, confer
degrees, perhaps consisting of 10 courses offered via Coursera,
10 from edX, eight from Udacity, five from StraighterLine or
Saylor and 12 “live” classes at the local state university or
community college.  At present, the archaic accreditation rules make that
impossible even though such a package of courses would cost less
than half the current price of a degree, and most courses would
be prepared by accredited, even elite, institutions, or use
academics who have done much of their teaching at those schools.  Yes, this new approach to credentialing competence is
complicated and needs oversight. For example: How do students
prove they are doing the online work? Some instruction calls for
face-to-face contact. And many benefits of higher education
relate to non-classroom learning and socialization. Still, the
question should be: Do the barriers imposed ensure quality and
protect students, or stifle competition, innovation, access and
affordability?  (Richard Vedder directs the Center for College
Affordability and Productivity, teaches economics at Ohio
University, and is an adjunct scholar at the  American Enterprise
Institute . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on using the WTO to curb  China’s
unfair trade  and on  abortion, rape and politics ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  how Hurricane Sandy affects  the presidential
campaign;  Noah Feldman  on the  next U.S. president’s Supreme
Court picks ;  Edward Glaeser  on how  San Francisco beat Detroit  in
the economic race;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on whether  Romney is “going
soft” on Iran ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on his hopes for a  Romney
presidency ; A. Gary Shilling on the  beneficiaries of low
interest rates .  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Vedder at  vedder@ohio.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 