-- Meningitis Outbreak May Spur U.S. Oversight of Pharmacies
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-29T19:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/meningitis-outbreak-may-spur-u-s-oversight-of-pharmacies.html
Inconsistent state oversight of
specialty pharmacies that mix their own medicines, like the one
linked to the U.S. meningitis outbreak, shows the need for
greater federal oversight, Representative  Edward Markey  said.  State pharmacy boards focus on licensing activities and pay
little attention to safety enforcement, said Markey, a Democrat
from Massachusetts, where the pharmacy linked to 25 meningitis
deaths is located. Markey, in a  report  released yesterday, said
the federal Food and Drug Administration does a better job
making information publicly available that may help consumers
avoid dangerous medicines.  Markey plans to introduce legislation that would require
compounding pharmacies to register with the FDA and comply with
minimum safety standards. The move adds to other legislative
proposals and two congressional investigations related to New
England Compounding Pharmacy Inc., known as NECC, which this
month recalled more than 17,000 vials of a steroid for back pain
after tainted doses were linked to a fungal  meningitis outbreak 
that has infected 354 people, including 25 deaths.  “The tragedy of NECC is clearly just the tip of an
industry iceberg that has long needed reform and federal
oversight,” Markey said in a statement. “This tragedy demands
the strongest response from Congress and federal and state
authorities to ensure safeguards are in place to protect
patients.”  Compounding pharmacies are supposed to mix drugs on a small
scale in response to patient prescriptions for treatments that
aren’t available elsewhere, for example for a unique dose of a
medicine.  State Investigation  Massachusetts regulators have moved to permanently revoke
the license of NECC, citing evidence of unsanitary manufacturing
conditions and business practices that may have exceeded the
scale and scope that is typically allowed.  Massachusetts  also has begun a statewide inspection of
compounding facilities. It secured the voluntary surrender of
the license for Infusion Resource because of conditions at the
facility in Waltham, Madeleine Biondolillo, director of the
Bureau for Health Care Safety and Quality, said yesterday at a
news conference. Investigators questioned the sterility of
injectable drugs at Infusion and said the company had a space
set up to give patients intravenous medications on site, even
though it doesn’t have a clinic license.  Previous Incidents  Excluding the latest incidents at NECC, FDA records
documented 23 deaths and 86 serious injuries since 2001
associated with compounding pharmacies, which are currently
exempt from most federal oversight, according to Markey’s
report. The deaths ranged from more meningitis illnesses to
overdoses of numbing cream for laser hair removal that was made
much more potent than was allowed.  While the FDA posts online searchable warning letters about
safety violations, only six states post enforcement actions on
the Internet that advise consumers a pharmacy may have made
contaminated products at one time, according to Markey’s report.  Those states are:  Arizona ,  California ,  Missouri , New York,
North Carolina and Rhode Island.  Meningitis is an inflammation of the lining of the brain
and spinal cord. The FDA has said about 14,000 people received
shots of the NECC steroid, which is injected into the spinal
cavity to relieve neck and back pain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  