-- Mercedes Bets on Gull-Wing Maker AMG to Boost Performance
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-10-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/mercedes-bets-on-gull-wing-maker-amg-to-boost-performance.html
As Mercedes-Benz falls further
behind rivals  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and Audi, it’s looking
to a unit that makes  sports cars  and souped-up versions of its
staid sedans to squeeze it back into the fast lane.  Mercedes’ AMG division, which developed the $189,600 SLS
gull-wing supercar introduced in 2010, will add three smaller
models in coming years, expanding its lineup to more than two
dozen cars. To bolster interest in the new offerings, Mercedes
plans to increase AMG showrooms 30 percent by 2017.  “AMG gives Mercedes a sporty edge,” AMG chief Ola Kaellenius said in an interview at the unit’s headquarters near
Stuttgart,  Germany . “We want to be the driving force in the
performance segment, a technological spearhead.”  Mercedes has slipped deeper into third place in the luxury-
car race. That has cast doubt on a 2011 pledge by  Dieter Zetsche , chief executive officer of Mercedes’ parent  Daimler AG (DAI) ,
to regain the No. 1 spot by the end of the decade.  “AMG can help Daimler catch up,” said  Stefan Bratzel ,
director of the Center of Automotive Management at the
University of Applied Sciences in  Bergisch Gladbach , Germany.
The unit “allows Daimler to make more out of its technological
potential and has a radiating effect on Mercedes.”  Improving Margins  AMG can also boost profitability at Mercedes, which last
week indefinitely postponed its target to increase operating
earnings to 10 percent of sales by 2013. With a margin of 15
percent to 20 percent, according to estimates from Bankhaus
Metzler, the unit’s yields are about triple those at Mercedes.  “The charm of the performance brands lies in the fact that
they can reach very high margins with comparably little effort
by exchanging the engine and making tweaks to the suspension and
design,” said Thomas Schiller, a Munich-based automotive
partner at consulting firm Deloitte.  Founded as a motor-sports company in 1967 by racing
enthusiasts Hans Werner Aufrecht and Erhard Melcher, AMG
occupies the top of the Mercedes range. Since taking full
control of the company in 2005, Daimler has pushed its
expansion, filling a hole left by the decision last year to shut
down the ultra-luxury Maybach brand.  Aside from the SLS, AMG’s 22-car lineup consists of high-
performance versions of Mercedes models. Equipped with hand-
crafted engines bearing the signature of the technician who
assembled them, the cars typically cost about 50 percent more
than the standard versions of the same model do. The cheapest,
the C63 AMG, starts at $59,800 in the U.S. versus $35,350 for a
regular C-Class sedan.  M Unit  The push at AMG will put Mercedes ahead of its biggest
rivals in such cars. BMW’s M unit, which offers similar upgrades
to its cars, has seven vehicles in its lineup. The Quattro
division of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi sells 10 models.  The 571-horsepower SLS, which competes with the likes of
the Porsche 911 Turbo, Aston Martin DB9 and Audi R8, was the
first car developed by AMG. The unit has since added a roadster
and a GT3 racing edition to the SLS lineup. An electric-powered
version will be added next year and more AMG-specific models may
be on the way.  AMG plans to boost sales from about 20,000 vehicles in 2011
to “significantly” more than 30,000 within five years,
Kaellenius said. To move the metal, AMG will increase its dealer
network to 350 outlets in five years, from 270 now. After
opening the first standalone AMG dealership in Beijing this
year, the company is also planning dedicated shops in  Hong Kong ,
Luxembourg and Paris.  Performance Drivers  The effort to widen its appeal to less well-heeled
performance drivers will start in 2013 with the A45, the first
of three compact models planned. The AMG version of the Mercedes
A-Class hatchback will sport a turbo-powered four-cylinder
engine that strives to pack more horsepower per cubic inch than
any engine made, according to Kaellenius. While the price hasn’t
been finalized, it will be “significantly below” current
offerings, the former Formula One engineer said.  Like other AMG models, the car will feature a sports-tuned
transmission and suspension. The brand also offers edgy exterior
styling such as spoilers and interior options like a dashboard
clock from Swiss watchmaker IWC Schaffhausen.  While AMG accounts for less than 2 percent of Mercedes
annual sales, it adds an edge to its parent as it tries to shed
its image as Grandpa’s luxury brand, said Frank Biller, an
analyst with Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart.  “AMG addresses customers other than the traditional
Mercedes buyers who are looking more for comfort and safety,”
Biller said. “It complements the Mercedes portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  