-- Tetragon Buys Affiliated Hedge Fund Polygon for $99 Million
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-10-29T13:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/tetragon-buys-affiliated-hedge-fund-polygon-for-99-million.html
Tetragon Financial Group Ltd. (TFG)  bought
Polygon Management LP, a hedge-fund firm founded by the same
management team, for about $99 million as the publicly traded
investor in structured loans expands its business.  Tetragon used 11.7 million of its non-voting shares to buy
Polygon, a London hedge fund started by Reade Griffith and Paddy Dear, the Guernsey, Channel Islands-based company said in a
statement today. The purchase price is based on the $8.43
closing price of Tetragon shares on Oct. 26.  Dear, 51, and Griffith, 47, are both principals and
directors of Tetragon, which invests in assets including
collateralized loan obligations, according to the firm’s
website. Tetragon is adding the pair’s affiliated business based
on a view that asset-management companies need to have as much
capital, investment experience and infrastructure as possible to
succeed following the 2008 financial crisis, Dear said.  “By putting it together, we think it really provides the
three pieces of the puzzle,” he said in an interview.  Dear, formerly of  UBS AG (UBSN) , and Griffith, formerly of Citadel
LLC, founded Polygon in 2002. It manages about $450 million in
 hedge funds , according to the statement. Polygon also owns a 13
percent stake in GreenOak Real Estate LP, an investment firm
that oversees $1.9 billion, and LCM Asset Management LLC, an
investor in syndicated loans that holds assets valued at about
$4.5 billion, according to the statement.  Tetragon also announced plans to buy back as much as $150
million of its non-voting Tetragon shares. The shares gained 10
cents, or 1.1 percent, to $8.41 at 1:35 p.m. in trading on the
NYSE-Euronext in Amsterdam for a market value of $1.1 billion.  The Polygon Global Opportunities Fund, which was once the
firm’s biggest hedge fund with $8 billion of assets at its peak,
suspended investor withdrawals after it lost money following the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  