-- Any EU Carbon Price Jump May Be Short-Lived, New Energy Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-10-29T17:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/eu-carbon-supply-surge-may-begin-around-nov-20-new-energy-says.html
Any jump in the price of European
Union carbon permits next month may be short-lived because of
sales that may begin on about Nov. 20, boosting supply,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  European Energy Exchange AG in Leipzig,  Germany , may seek
to sell 84 million metric tons of allowances in about 10
auctions starting that date and finishing by the end of the
year, with supply at each auction exceeding the total in all of
this month, Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst at the London research
company, said today in an e-mailed research note. Fanfare about
the auctions “may turn into alarm bells,” he said.  The auctions will probably follow a recommendation by the
European Commission expected on Nov. 14 on how many allowances
the bloc will withhold temporarily, he said. That supply
reduction probably won’t start until 2014, about 13 months
later, he said.  Phase 3 of the bloc’s carbon trading system, the world’s
biggest greenhouse gas market by traded volume, begins next year
and runs through 2020. The commission is selling some carbon
early to fill hedging demand from power utilities, which sell
electricity about one or two years ahead of generation.  EU carbon permits for December rose 1.5 percent today to
8.01 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London  at 4:49 p.m. They’ve fallen 27 percent in the past year.  The market will be oversupplied by about 260 million tons
next year, “requiring a significant amount of speculative
buying to keep EU allowances from falling to new lows,”
Hanschmidt said.  ‘Not Helpful’  Deutsche Bank AG forecast Oct. 26 that supply of carbon,
excluding standard Phase 3 sales, would reach as high as 260
million tons through March. Including the standard sales of
about 20 million tons a week, supplies would surge to a total
540 million tons in the period.  “Supply may weigh on EU allowance prices,” Isabelle Curien, an analyst for Deutsche Bank in Paris, said that day in
an e-mailed research note.  EEX has not yet published a timetable for standard sales
starting in January.  “This uncertainty is not helpful at all,” Gunnar Steck,
chairman of the emissions-trading task force of the European
Federation Energy Traders, said Oct. 26 by e-mail.  While the lobby group’s members don’t discuss power hedging
strategies within the group, EFET was assuming supply would
arrive consistently as it expects while the European Commission
in Brussels finishes its plan to fix the supply glut, said
Steck, who is also a business and regulatory affairs executive
for EON AG in Dusseldorf, Germany.  “There must be an even spread of the total EU allowance
Phase 3 volumes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  