-- Euro Declines as Risk Appetite Ebbs on Debt Crisis, Economy
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-29T21:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/euro-declines-as-rajoy-and-monti-meet-amid-weak-economic-outlook.html
The euro reached the lowest level in
almost three weeks amid a growing divide over  Europe ’s new
bailout strategy and data that showed the region’s three-year-
old sovereign-debt crisis is weighing on its economy.  The dollar rose amid higher haven demand. The U.S.
securities industry canceled stocks trading today and tomorrow
as Hurricane Sandy headed toward the New York City area. Retail
sales in Spain slid 11 percent in September from a year ago, a
report showed, and the nation’s central bank set up a so-called
bad bank to buy impaired property assets. The euro touched a
two-week low versus the yen after German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  rejected another Greek debt restructuring.  “A collapsing Spanish economy and concerns about the
effects of Hurricane Sandy gave traders two good reasons” to
sell the euro, said  Joseph Trevisani , chief market strategist at
WorldWideMarkets Ltd. in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey. “Spanish
reluctance to ask for a bailout is slowly mitigating the
positive euro effect of the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying
plan.”  The euro weakened 0.3 percent to $1.2904 at 4:59 p.m. New
York time and touched $1.2885. It reached $1.2883 on Oct. 26,
the lowest level since Oct. 11. The 17-nation common currency
was little changed at 102.98 yen, after sliding as low as
102.52, the least since Oct. 16. Japan’s currency declined 0.2
percent to 79.80 per dollar.  The shared currency pared a third straight monthly gain to
0.3 percent.  ‘Already Moved’  “For the euro, it’s more rotation out of the currency
because it’s already moved a fair amount,” Noel Hebert, chief
investment officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon
 Wealth Management , which oversees about $250 million, said in a
phone interview of today’s move. “It doesn’t feel like people
are overanxious to rush back into the dollar, given the election
and the uncertainty going on at the end of the year.”  The dollar remained stronger versus the euro even after
 consumer spending  in the U.S. climbed more than forecast in
September as incomes grew. Household purchases, which account
for about 70 percent of the economy, rose 0.8 percent, the most
since February, after a 0.5 percent gain the prior month, a
Commerce Department report showed today in Washington. A
Bloomberg survey forecast a 0.6 percent rise.  The U.S.  unemployment  rate rose to 7.9 percent this month,
from 7.8 percent in September, a Bloomberg survey forecast
before the Labor Department reports the data Nov. 2.  Hurricane Sandy  Hurricane Sandy, 900 miles across, shut the U.S. federal
government and state administrations from  Virginia  to
 Massachusetts , halting travel and upending the presidential
campaign. It may knock out power to 10 million people for a week
or more.  “There has been some appetite to buy U.S. dollars this
morning just on the back of what’s occurring in  North America 
with the weather,”  Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at
the online currency-trading firm Oanda Corp., said in a
telephone interview. “At the moment, it’s certainly risk-off
with regard to Europe. People feel happier buying U.S. dollars
and will do so heading into the U.S. election” on Nov. 6.  The Canadian dollar weakened below parity with its U.S.
counterpart for the first time since August as risk appetite
shrank and global stocks and commodities declined.  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1, depreciated 0.4 percent to C$1.0011 per
 U.S. dollar . The Canadian currency last closed at parity Aug. 6.  Peso Sinks  Mexico’s peso weakened the most among the greenback’s major
peers, dropping as  Hurricane Sandy  bore down on a stretch of its
biggest export market. The currency weakened 0.7 percent to
13.0783 per dollar and touched 13.1076, the lowest level since
Sept. 6.  The MSCI World Index of equities in developed nations
declined 0.3 percent, and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of
raw materials fell as much as 0.9 percent.  The euro reached its low of the day versus the dollar after
Bank of Spain Deputy Governor Fernando Restoy set out plans for
establishing a bad bank to buy impaired property assets from the
lenders it is bailing out. The nation is creating the bank as
part of its 100 billion-euro European bank bailout.  Italian Premier  Mario Monti  met his Spanish counterpart,
 Mariano Rajoy , in  Madrid  as pressure mounts on the Iberian
nation to request aid. Rajoy said he’ll request a bailout as
soon as he judges it’s in his country’s interests.  The euro has strengthened against the greenback this month
as European officials wait for Spain to trigger a bailout plan
unveiled by ECB President  Mario Draghi  in September and designed
to draw a line under the region’s debt crisis.  Spanish Reluctance  While the program to buy potentially unlimited quantities
of government debt helped to soothe bond markets, Spain has held
off from unlocking the plan by requesting a sovereign bailout.  The 17-member common currency slid against the dollar and
yen today after Schaeuble, speaking in an interview with German
radio Deutschlandfunk broadcast yesterday, said it would be “a
bit unrealistic” to impose more losses on private bondholders.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government is willing to
consider a European Central Bank proposal for a buyback of Greek
debt, Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said today.  European policy makers are awaiting a report on Greece’s
progress in meeting internationally agreed targets compiled by
the troika of the European Commission, the  International
Monetary Fund  and the ECB.  The euro dropped 1.6 percent in the past six months, the
biggest loser after the Swiss franc among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The yen gained 2.1 percent and the dollar rose 1.4 percent.  Krona Gains  Sweden’s krona strengthened against the euro and the dollar
after September retail sales rose a monthly 1.7 percent compared
with a 0.4 percent decline a month earlier. That beat a 0.4
percent median estimate of six economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The krona gained 0.5 percent against the euro to 8.6221 and
appreciated 0.3 percent to 6.6824 per dollar.  Gains in the yen were limited before  Bank of Japan  policy
makers meet tomorrow after holding off from easing policy on
Oct. 5. BOJ board members are facing political pressure to ease
policy as data last week showed consumer prices fell for a
fifth-straight month, making the central bank’s 1 percent
inflation goal elusive.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  