-- European Trading Volumes Sink as Storm Shuts U.S. Markets
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-10-29T16:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/european-trading-volumes-sink-as-storm-shuts-u-s-markets.html
Trading volumes across  Europe 
plummeted as the U.S. securities industry canceled equity
trading on all markets, moving to protect workers as  Hurricane
Sandy  barreled toward  New York City .  The number of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index, Germany’s DAX and France’s CAC 40 was
more that 40 percent below the average of the last 30 days at
the close of trading, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Volumes on the  Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  of the biggest euro-region
companies sank 47 percent, the data showed.  The Securities and Exchange Commission announced the market
shutdown, which may extend through tomorrow, as the hurricane
approached the U.S. East Coast with winds of as much as 85 miles
(140 kilometers) per hour. Sandy is predicted to make landfall
late today in southern New Jersey, then turn inland, according
to an advisory from the National Hurricane Center in Miami.  “Without trading today in New York -- a very important
indicator -- investors are not willing to act heavily and show a
clear conviction for equities,” said  Robert Halver , head of
capital markets research at Baader Bank AG in Frankfurt.  Volume on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 36 percent,
supported by a surge in Swiss trading. Some 42.8 million  UBS AG (UBSN) 
shares changed hands as Switzerland’s largest bank was said to
cut as many as 10,000 jobs. Trading in Swiss Market Index
companies was 73 percent greater than the 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Composite volume on the Stoxx 600  was the lowest since
Sept. 3, while Euro Stoxx 50 volume was the least since Aug. 27,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  