-- Insurers Drop in Europe as U.S. Prepares for Hurricane
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-10-29T14:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/european-insurers-drop-as-u-s-prepares-for-hurricane-san.html
Insurers including  Travelers Cos. (TRV) ,
Allianz SE and  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  fell as the U.S. east
coast prepared for Hurricane Sandy, which may cost the industry
as much as $6.3 billion, according to Kinetic Analysis Corp.  Insurance was the worst-performing industry in the  STOXX
Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , down 1.5 percent compared with the index’s 0.4
percent decline at 2:14 p.m. in London. Allianz traded 1.1
percent lower at 92.91 euros, Zurich fell 2.6 percent and New
York-based Travelers dropped 0.9 percent in European trading.  “It is heading for a region with huge population
density,”  Fabrizio Croce , a Zurich-based insurance analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets, wrote in a note to clients today.  U.S. public officials from Virginia to Massachusetts have
shut schools, halted travel and prevented stock markets from
opening, disrupting the lives of as many as 60 million people,
as the hurricane approaches. The storm, dubbed “Frankenstorm”
by the National Weather Service, is predicted to make landfall
late today in southern  New Jersey  then turn inland, according to
the National Hurricane Center in Miami.  Allianz, which provides property-casualty coverage in the
U.S. through its Fireman’s Fund Insurance Co. unit, and Zurich,
which has a management relationship with Farmers Insurance, are
among European insurers with most exposure to the U.S.  Allstate, Munich  Allstate Corp. (ALL)  fell 0.7 percent to $39.87 in European
trading. Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer, dropped 2.3
percent to 121.5 euros while  Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL)  led Lloyd’s of
London insurers lower, falling 3.3 percent to 457.6 pence.  Waves could reach six to 11 feet around the  New York  Harbor
should the winds coincide with high tide, according to Risk
Management Solutions, a catastrophe modeling firm used by
insurers.  Losses from the storm may be as much as $6.3 billion with
the biggest insurance claims in Pennsylvania, according to data
from Kinetic Analysis Corp. compiled by Bloomberg. Hurricane
Irene last year cost insurers $4.3 billion, according to data
compiled by the Insurance Information Institute. Standard
homeowners’ policies protect against wind damage, while losses
from flooding aren’t covered, the trade group said.  Primary insurers such as such as Allstate and Travelers and
Chubb Corp. are among the firms that have the largest market
share in areas impacted by Sandy, Morgan Stanley analysts led by
Greg Locraft said in a note to clients yesterday. Such primary
insurers typically buy reinsurance from firms including  Munich
Re  and Swiss Re to protect themselves against losses.  ‘Well Prepared’  The property-casualty industry’s capital levels make it
“well prepared to pay all Frankenstorm insured losses,’’ the
Morgan Stanley analysts said.  Lloyd’s of London insurers such as Catlin sell both primary
coverage and reinsurance.  European insurers’ capital reserves remain “fat” as they
have not had to pay for any severe losses in 2012, according to
Eamonn Flanagan, a Liverpool, England-based analyst at  Shore
Capital Group Ltd. (SGR)  Firms such as  Beazley Plc (BEZ) ,  Hiscox Ltd. (HSX)  and
 Lancashire Holdings Ltd. (LRE)  may reduce planned capital returns to
shareholders to pay for losses and take advantage of higher
premium rates following the storm, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 