-- F.A., Police Probe Complaints Against Chelsea-United Referee
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-10-29T22:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/f-a-probes-allegations-over-chelsea-game-amid-clattenburg-row.html
English soccer’s ruling body said it
opened an investigation into allegations made after yesterday’s
Chelsea-Manchester United game, when referee Mark Clattenburg
was at the center of controversy.  The Football Association didn’t specify the nature of the
allegations in a statement  on its website  and said it would make
no further comment at the moment. Chelsea said last night it
lodged an official complaint that Clattenburg used
“inappropriate language” toward two of its players.  Clattenburg is being investigated over claims he directed
racist remarks at Nigerian midfielder John Obi Mikel and Spanish
forward Juan Mata, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported.
Chelsea’s complaint followed the 3-2 home defeat against United,
during which the referee red carded Branislav Ivanovic and
Fernando Torres, and allowed a winning goal that Blues manager
Roberto di Matteo said was offside.  Last night the Professional Game Match Officials, a body
that manages referees, said the allegations were “being treated
with the utmost seriousness.”  “Mark will cooperate fully and welcomes the opportunity
for the facts to be established,” it said.  The PGMO today said Clattenburg won’t officiate a match
next weekend, adding that “that with any football match the
focus should not be on the officials but on the players and the
game itself,” Sky reported.  ‘Proper Process’  Prospect, the referees’ union, said today in a statement
that it’s offering full support to Clattenburg in relation to
the allegations made against him.  “It is now important that the allegations are fully
investigated through the proper process as quickly as
possible,” Alan Leighton, the union’s national secretary, said
in the  statement .  The Metropolitan Police Service said in a later statement
it was considering a complaint received in relation to the match
and “will work in partnership with Chelsea Football Club and
the Football Association in order to consider any allegation
that is made in relation to the reported events.”  The complaints against Clattenburg follow a series of race-
linked controversies affecting Chelsea and English soccer.  In July, Chelsea captain John Terry was found not guilty in
a criminal case linked to alleged racial abuse of Queens Park
Rangers defender Anton Ferdinand in a game last October. On
Sept. 27 he was banned by the F.A. for four games over the same
incident, missing the United game because of that suspension.  Some players in the English game then boycotted anti-racism
T-shirts in a protest against what they saw as ineffective
action to combat racist conduct.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  