-- Facebook Sued by Gambit Over Market for Game Currency
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-10-29T18:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/facebook-sued-by-gambit-over-market-for-social-game-currency-1-.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  was sued by Kickflip
Inc., which does business as Gambit, over claims the social-
networking company broke antitrust laws in the virtual-currency
market.  Gambit was the leading virtual currency and payment-
processing provider to software developers that published games
on Facebook and other social networks. Facebook’s decision in
2009 to offer its own services to developers destroyed a
“vibrant and competitive market,” lawyers for Kickflip said in
court papers made public today in federal court in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  “Facebook leveraged its dominance in the social-game
marketplace to control and dominate the separate market for
virtual-currency services,” Kickflip lawyers said. “As the
result of Facebook’s actions, Gambit’s business was destroyed.”  Virtual-currency services allow social-game developers to
issue currency to game players in exchange for direct payment or
participation in third-party advertising offers. By mid-2009 at
least 20 virtual-currency service providers were available to
social-game developers, according to the complaint.  Facebook’s service charged developers a 30 percent fee and
provided only a narrow range of services, Kickflip said in its
complaint. Facebook forced its competitors to the sidelines by
“blacklisting” Gambit and forcing developers to switch to its
services exclusively in 2009 and 2010.  Kickflip, based in Austin,  Texas , is asking a judge to bar
Facebook from enforcing its policy and award unspecified
damages, according to the complaint.  The complaint “is without merit,” Andrew Noyes, a
spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook , said in an
e-mailed statement. The company plans to defend the claims,
Noyes said.  The case is Kickflip Inc. v. Facebook Inc., U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  