-- Falcao Soccer Investors Tap Dutch ‘Haven’ as Value Leaps
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-10-29T10:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/falcao-soccer-investors-tap-dutch-haven-as-value-leaps-10-fold.html
Investors buying stakes in the
transfer rights of soccer players such as  Colombia ’s Radamel
Falcao are moving returns through Dutch companies in an effort
to cut their tax payments to as little as 5 percent.  The transactions show that investors are becoming
increasingly sophisticated in finding profits in soccer’s $3
billion transfer market, said Gregor Reiter, chief financial
officer at  The Hague , Netherlands-based  European Football Agents
Association , a group for player representatives. According to
Koos de Bruijn, coordinator of  Tax Justice Netherlands , the
transactions are draining public money abroad by paying “very
small” amounts of tax in the  Netherlands .  “There is really no justification for this,” De Bruijn
said by telephone from Utrecht. The Netherlands is a “treaty
haven” because of tax-reducing agreements it has with offshore
jurisdictions, De Bruijn added.  Soccer ruling body  FIFA  allows investors to buy shares in
the future fees of a player from teams provided they don’t
influence trading. The transactions began in  South America  in
the 1990s with player agents effectively acquiring shares in
their clients’ careers.  The English Premier League banned so-called third-party
ownership after the activity obstructed Argentine striker  Carlos Tevez ’s 2007 move to  Manchester United . The practice is
spreading to southern  Europe  as cash-strapped teams seek
financing. The European Commission is examining the issue to
check it doesn’t interfere with competitions, commission
officials said.  Falcao Move  The commission is paying Brussels-based consultancy KEA
European Affairs to report on the practice in a study on soccer
transfers scheduled for next month.  Porto acquired Falcao for 3.9 million euros ($5.1 million)
from River Plate of Argentina in 2009, and traded him to
Atletico Madrid for 40 million euros last year. As part of his
move to the Spanish club, 1.8 million euros -- about 5 percent
of the fee -- went to Dutch financial holding company Natland
Financieringsmaatschappij BV, according to a Porto earnings
report published Oct. 18.  The company’s parent, Hitchin, England-based Wandsworth
Services LLP, is also affiliated with Broward Capital Inc. in
the British Virgin Islands. A letter e-mailed to representatives
of Wandsworth Services asking for comment on the arrangement
wasn’t immediately answered.  ‘Unfair and Incorrect’  Falcao has 10 goals in eight league games for  Atletico
Madrid  this season and got three against European champion
Chelsea in the European Super Cup. Atletico owns all of the 26-
year-old’s transfer rights, and has used his trading value as a
guarantee for a loan from an investment fund, Atletico CEO
Miguel Angel Gil said in an e-mail. The  transfermarkt.com 
website currently puts Falcao’s value at 50 million euros.  The Netherlands’  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mail it has
many treaties that allow investors to reduce tax on dividends at
source to between zero and 10 percent. The treaties comply with
all international standards and require the exchange of
information to enable “anti-abuse” measures, the e-mail said.  “It is therefore in our view unfair and incorrect to refer
to the Netherlands as a ‘tax haven’ or a ‘treaty haven,”’ the
ministry said.  The U.K. also offers foreign investors the chance to
receive tax exemptions on dividends -- paying “little or no
withholding taxes” -- before routing receipts to offshore
territories, according to  David Burke , a tax partner with Mason
Hayes & Curran in Dublin.  “It’s a well-trodden path” in the Netherlands and U.K.,
Burke said by phone.  180% Return  In 2009, Porto paid Natland Financieringsmaatschappij 1.5
million euros for 60 percent of the rights to Mario Bolatti. The
Argentine midfielder was traded to  Italy ’s Fiorentina six months
later, with Porto earning 1.4 million euros for 20 percent of
the rights, according to Porto.  A sale of their stake at that price would have given the
Dutch company a 180 percent return, according to Bloomberg News
calculations. Porto spokesman Rui Cerqueira didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment on the agreements involving
Falcao and Bolatti.  The global market for such deals is growing and could be
worth more than $500 million, according to Julio Senn, a partner
at Madrid-based firm Senn, Ferrero, Asociados Sports &
Entertainment SLP.  Last year, AS Roma said it would pay Amsterdam-based
holding company Orel BV 1.6 million euros as part of forward
Erik Lamela’s 12 million-euro transfer from  Argentina ’s River
Plate. It also agreed to pay agent Martijn Odems 3.2 million
euros under the accord.  Dutch Agent  Roma officials didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment about the 4.8 million euros paid to third parties.
Odems, who became a player agent six weeks earlier according to
the  Dutch soccer federation , and works at the same address as
Orel, declined to comment.  FIFA should monitor such transactions “very, very
carefully” to make sure investors are not putting pressure on
clubs to trade players, Reiter, the player agency executive,
said.  “The first priority should not be the revenue of the
investor,” Reiter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid  at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  