-- Finland Builds Nuclear Dump at Island as Obama, Merkel Lag
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-10-30T07:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/finland-builds-nuclear-dump-at-island-as-obama-lags-with-merkel.html
Olkiluoto is different from other
idyllic islands off Finland’s west coast. Instead of summer
cottages where Finns sunbathe and enjoy saunas under tall birch
and pine trees, this is where the nation will store its most
toxic nuclear waste for the next 100,000 years.  When  Posiva Oy ’s Onkalo site opens in 2020, 420 meters
(1,378 feet) below ground, it will be the world’s first final
store for spent atomic fuel, which the  World Nuclear Association 
estimates at 270,000 metric tons, growing by about 4 percent a
year. U.S. President  Barack Obama  withdrew support in 2009 for a
facility at Yucca Mountain in  Nevada , leaving the country
without a permanent repository plan. German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel , who seeks to exit nuclear power by 2022, is facing
political gridlock ahead of a decision on storage in a salt cave
800 meters below the town of Gorleben.  Posiva President Reijo Sundell sees the project as
protecting the next generation from the by-products of
generating the power that meets about a quarter of Finland’s
demand, the 64-year-old said as he showed pictures of his five
grandchildren.  “It’s been a 42-year marathon,” Sundell said of the site
built in 1.6 billion year-old bedrock. “Implementing final
storage of nuclear waste is a political problem, not a technical
one and we realize that doing nothing isn’t the answer,” he
said on Sept. 25, displaying a  layout  of the site near the 2.8
mile tunnel entrance.  Soviet Imports  Finland embraced nuclear power in the 1970s to cut its
dependence on imports from the  Soviet Union . Lacking the oil and
hydropower supplies of neighbors such as Russia and  Norway , the
country uses atomic energy to supply power to its energy-
intensive export industries.  The contribution to the economy from such industries,
including pulp production, chemicals and basic metals, is twice
the European average, according to the  International Energy
Agency .  Since the nuclear power use began,  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V)  and
Teollisuuden Voima Oyj, Posiva’s owners and operators of the
nation’s four reactors, have been planning storage for the
waste.  The European Union last year required every member state to
comply with the bloc’s new legislation on final nuclear waste
storage by August 2013 and to produce detailed plans, cost
estimates and time frames by 2015.  It will cost about 10 billion euros ($13 billion) to close
Finland’s reactors and store all the waste, Jorma Aurela, senior
energy engineer at the country’s economy ministry, said in an
interview in Helsinki.  Black Pellets  Posiva plans to store 12,000 tons of radioactive fuel,
which resembles small black pellets stacked into metal tubes,
from seven reactors and will spend the next two years testing
water flows and durability. Engineers will then spend five years
from 2014 blasting away even more bedrock and open the site in
2020.  Olkiluoto also hosts a lone wind turbine 65 meters high and
two nuclear reactors which supply 17 percent of  Finland ’s power
use. A third atomic unit, which will be the world’s biggest, is
under construction and a fourth is planned.  Swirling Tunnel  “If something happens to the iron cast and copper canister
that surrounds the fuel, as well as the bentonite clay buffer,
then we’re in trouble,” Janne Laihonen, a Posiva geologist,
said as he chauffeured visitors in a minivan through the
swirling tunnel into the waste facility. “The worst case
scenario is that radioactivity seeps out and contaminates the
ground water,” he said.  At the end of the tunnel stand half a dozen vertical
shafts, each five feet wide, where waste capsules will be
stored. The temperature in the cavern is 15 degrees Celsius (59
degrees Fahrenheit) and the ground is slippery and muddy. The
only sound is the humming of power generators that provide
artificial light. The air smells of firecrackers.  The bedrock, 75 percent gray gneiss and 25 percent granite,
has fractured zones with seeping water.  “We must avoid them, which is a big challenge. A little
water flow, but not too much, is ok since the bentonite requires
humidity to swell,” Laihonen said.  No Guards  After a few decades of  interim storage  in pools adjacent to
reactors to cool down after the final reactor has shut, the
spent fuel will be encapsulated and  sealed away  and the tunnels
filled up with bentonite clay blocks. The site will be left
without guards or security.  “We want to leave the rock in the same condition as it was
when we came,” Posiva’s Sundell said. “It’s closed and hidden
in the forest. No marks will be left on the surface.”  While Republicans in the  U.S. Congress  are pressing the
Obama administration to resume work on the Yucca Mountain
disposal site, 161 kilometers (100 miles) northwest of  Las
Vegas , the plan is opposed by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
a Democrat from Nevada.  The Blue Ribbon Commission  on America’s Nuclear Future, set
up by Obama after he abandoned plans for Yucca, urged “prompt
efforts” to develop at least one consolidated storage facility,
according to a report published on Jan. 26.  “The Energy Department is working on a plan based on the
Blue Ribbon Commission’s recommendations,” the Washington-based
agency said Oct. 23 in an e-mailed statement.  $30 Billion  As the federal government has collected more than $30
billion in payments and interest for the storage, the National
Association of  Regulatory Utility Commissioners  is using
lawsuits to force the administration to act. The group, based in
 Washington , expects Congress to take on the issue after the
November presidential elections by writing legislation that
would start the process for picking a permanent storage site,
Rob Thormeyer, a spokesman, said by phone on Oct. 23.  German Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  said it’s
“desirable and possible that  Germany  finds a consensus” across
party-lines on identifying a permanent site to store high-level
nuclear waste, his ministry said in an Oct. 25 statement.  Altmaier called for a “speedy” process, after the
opposition earlier this month rejected his draft bill to enable
a new search for a nuclear waste site that, while open to
alternatives beyond Gorleben, doesn’t exclude the site in  Lower
Saxony . A previous government of  Social Democrats  and Greens
blocked research at Gorleben for 10 years through 2010.  Back in Finland, Onkalo “offers a good example that
permanent disposal solutions can be found,”  International
Atomic Energy Agency ’s Director General Yukiya Amano told
reporters when he visited the site in August. “The disposal
site is not theory, but a fact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  