-- For Ex-Goldman Trader, Reporter Wine Work Is Bugs, Memory
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-10-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/for-ex-goldman-trader-reporter-wine-work-is-bugs-memory.html
The alarm sounds at 7 a.m., and this
is during vacation.  Not your typical time off, though. I have an hour to wash,
eat breakfast and get outside to meet the farm manager. I am in
San Miniato,  Italy , working the grape harvest at the Tuscany
estate of  Cosimo Maria Masini .  For two weeks I trade my  Christian Louboutin  heels for
boots and my computer keyboard for gardening gloves and
clippers.  Cosimo Maria Masini is a certified organic and biodynamic
farm. It uses no synthesized chemicals and limited mechanical
intervention in the winemaking process. The concept is based on
principles derived from Austrian philosopher Rudolf Steiner, who
is credited as the founder of biodynamics.  An organization called  World Wide Opportunities on Organic
Farms , or Wwoof, allows me to work like a dog picking the grapes
that will become the 2012 vintage. The organization matches
volunteer workers with organic farms in order to share
sustainable ways of living. More than 50 countries offer Wwoof
opportunities such as working on a coffee plantation in  Hawaii 
or landscaping in  New Zealand .  Yes, I volunteered. Yet nonfinancial rewards come in the
form of San Miniato sunsets, sweet figs and ripe tomatoes from
the orchards lining the property, and the camaraderie of people
from diverse backgrounds.  There’s a chef from  Japan , two post-collegiate women from
 Iowa , an architecture student from  France  and an entrepreneur
from  Brooklyn .  Goldman, BlackRock  Helen Belogolova, a former trader at  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  for three years and who also worked at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  for a
year as a portfolio manager, now is pursuing a Ph.D. at the UCLA
Anderson School of Management.  She seems less interested in winemaking and more in
spending a few weeks in the beautiful countryside. By contrast,
Andrea Bandini, 23, an aspiring winemaker from San Miniato, is
working at the farm as part of his internship for the trade.  “It’s obligatory for the program,” he says about his
university studies specializing in viticulture and oenology.
“I’d like to make wine one day in Tuscany.”  Anthony Vecci, a 25-year-old American who arrived as a
Wwoofer at the farm last October, is now a full-time employee.  “I came looking for export jobs, but it’s a difficult
industry in Italy,” he said. “Despite experience, you start at
the bottom rung and are paid very little and have very little
responsibility.”  Working Vacation  About one in 10 people are actually interested in wine when
they arrive, Vecci said. “Most see the pictures on the website
and think of the stereotypical Tuscan setting and see a
beautiful way to vacation.”  Call it a working vacation. While I’m in the minority who
are there to experience winemaking, the picturesque backdrop is
not lost on me. Nor are the myriad mosquitos that laugh at the
long pants and sleeves I wear in soaring temperatures to avoid
getting scratched by the thousands of little prickles clinging
to my clothes.  We start early to avoid the heat, which this year has been
historically high. The sun beats down at as much as 40 degrees
Celsius (110 degrees Fahrenheit). Our jugs of cold water are
tepid by mid-morning.  Grape Stomping  A typical day is spent crouched among the dense vines,
clipping ripe bunches to fill hundreds of crates that are
brought back to the cantina where the winemaking occurs.
Stomping grapes with bare feet is still practiced here.  While the rolling hills of Tuscany are beautiful, they’re a
hard terrain to work on. Maneuvering with 25-pound (12-kilo)
crates in the vineyard is more science than art. Back at the
cantina, the grapes are manually dropped into a machine that
separates stems from fruit, which is then dumped into the
fermentation barrels.  I’m surprised by the weight of the grapes as I plunge my
bare arm into the barrel. I’m more surprised by how hot it is at
the bottom -- a sign that fermentation is taking place. The pre-
fermenting juice tastes as sweet as sugar.  The sweet aroma of alcohol wafts through the cantina. The
floor is sticky from juice that has splashed out, all of which
means more insects.  Espresso Rush  We work until about noon and break for lunch, which is
washed down with espresso to give us energy to get through the
rest of the workday.  The red varietals are turned, or punched down, by hand a
few times a day, typically by men. I tried it, standing on the
narrow edge of the barrel and using all my weight to push down
the grapes with a long, shovel-like metal tool while praying
that I wouldn’t fall in. Another worker was not so fortunate.  Some days there’s labeling and packing of boxes of wine
that will be shipped for export or sold locally to shops and
restaurants.  There’s no maid service. Preparing meals and chores are
divided among the workers. Leisure time is spent playing cards,
napping or trying to access e-mail or Skype over the spotty
Internet connection.  Dinners most nights last for hours and include beer and
wine. They are followed by dancing. Weekends are free and often
involve trips to nearby destinations.  Hard Lessons  I’ve never worked so hard on vacation -- nor learned so
much. Handpicking allows for more selectivity, so only the
healthiest grapes are used, and white varietals are often picked
first because red grapes take longer to reach full maturation.  This wasn’t true of the malvasia grapes, a local white
variety that becomes Fedardo, Cosimo Maria Masini’s name for the
sweet Italian dessert wine known as Vin Santo. After picking,
the grapes hang to dry for three to four months until ready to
be pressed and aged in small barrels for five years.  Perhaps that’s the only drawback of the experience: having
to wait to taste the fruits of my labor.  San Miniato is about 45 minutes by train from Florence. It
is the center of a white truffle zone and hosts an annual
festival in November. The Wwoof website provides a list of
participating farms. Membership is 25 euros ($32.30) and covers
medical insurance while working.  (Krista Giovacco is a reporter for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 