-- Ford Plunges, Toyota Tops Consumer Reports Survey on Cars
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-10-29T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/ford-plunges-toyota-tops-consumer-reports-survey-on-cars.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , plagued by nagging
problems with its electronics systems, tumbled further toward
the bottom of  Consumer Reports’  annual auto-reliability survey
as three Toyota Motor Corp. brands topped the rankings.  Ford’s namesake brand fell seven spots to second-to-last
place, and its luxury nameplate Lincoln plunged twelve spots,
the biggest drop in the U.S.-based magazine’s survey this year.
 Toyota’s (7203)  Scion topped the standings for a second straight year,
the Japanese automaker’s namesake brand moved up four spots to
No. 2 and its premium Lexus line was the third best.  Ford’s rankings suffered because of problems with its
MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch audio, entertainment and
navigation systems and defects with models such as the Explorer
sport-utility vehicle and Fiesta and Focus cars, according to
Yonkers, New York-based  Consumer Reports . No U.S.-based
automaker placed a brand in the survey’s top ten this year.  Ford is “bringing in some new technologies that aren’t
really all worked-out,” including the touch-screen systems,
Jake Fisher, director of automotive testing for Consumer
Reports, said yesterday in an interview. “They’re taking that
system and putting it in more and more vehicles, so there’s
really not an indication that even next year things are going to
get better.”  Japan-based automakers dominated the rankings this year.
 Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ’s Mazda,  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) ’s Subaru,
and Honda Motor Co.’s namesake brand and premium nameplate Acura
rounded out the top seven of the survey, in which the magazine
asks its more than 8 million subscribers to report serious
problems they’ve had with their vehicles in the prior 12 months.  ‘Nothing New’  “Toyota being at the top is really nothing new,” Fisher
said in an interview before announcing the results yesterday at
an Automotive Press Association event in  Detroit . “The Japanese
have always been up there. They kind of shuffle positions.”  Sixteen of the 27 models in the Toyota City, Japan-based
automaker’s lineup earned the highest rating, Consumer Reports
said. The subcompact Toyota Prius c earned the top score
overall, and the hatchback Prius, the larger Prius v, and the
new Prius plug-in also rated above average.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi premium brand surged 18 spots, the
survey’s biggest gain, to rank No. 8.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s
Infiniti and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ’s namesake rounded out the top
ten, shutting out all three major U.S. automakers.  GM Improves  General Motors Co. (GM)  placed its Cadillac luxury nameplate No.
11 and its GMC line of light trucks No. 12. GMC climbed by 10
spots, led by the Terrain SUV. Cadillac, boosted by the CTS
coupe, moved up in the ranks by 14 levels. The Detroit-based
automaker’s Chevrolet and Buick brands also improved.  Chrysler Group LLC’s Jeep was the company’s only brand to
place in the top 20. The SUV line for the  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based automaker dropped six spots to No. 19. The
namesake Chrysler brand dropped eight places to No. 23, and
Dodge and Ram followed in the next two spots.  Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler’s performance within its
brands were mixed, with the V6-engine version of the 300 sedan
ranking as its namesake brand’s most reliable, and the V8
version of the 300 the worst. The Dodge Charger had “well-
below-average” reliability, and the  Jeep Grand Cherokee  scored
average with a V-6 and below par with the V-8.  Findings from Consumer Reports’ survey this year are based
on subscribers’ experiences with 1.2 million vehicles. The
reliability scores are based on the most recent three model
years of data, and vehicles that have been redesigned for the
2013 model year are excluded.  Ford Models  The exclusion of recently revamped models hurt Ford, which
has redesigned its Ford Escape SUV and Fusion and Lincoln MKZ
sedans, because the three have historically scored as reliable,
Consumer Reports said.  “Ford had a pretty mature product line up until just a
year or two ago,” Fisher said. “When you drop those out and
start replacing them with new models, new technology and new
platforms, this is something that happens.”  The namesake brand of  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  dropped six spots
to No. 17, dragged down by the turbo version of its Sonata car.
The Sportage SUV was the best model for Hyundai’s affiliate Kia.
Both of the automakers are based in Seoul.  German automakers  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG (BMW)  both made small improvements. Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz brand
moved up four spots to place No. 14, and BMW rose three notches
to No. 16.  Volkswagen’s namesake brand slipped two spots to No. 18.
The Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker’s redesigned  Passat (PSAT) 
scored well, and its CC, Eos, and diesel Jetta cars improved.
The redesigned Beetle car, the Touareg SUV, and four- and five-
cylinder and sporty GTI edition Jetta performed below average,
Consumer Reports said.  Rechargeable cars performed well, with the all-electric
Leaf surveying as the best model for Yokohama, Japan-based
Nissan. GM’s plug-in hybrid  Chevy Volt  had above-average
reliability for the second-consecutive year, Consumer Reports
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  