-- Forint Heads for Biggest Two-Day Drop in 2 Months on Aid Concern
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-29T10:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/forint-heads-for-biggest-two-day-drop-in-2-months-on-aid-concern.html
The forint headed for the biggest
two-day drop in almost two months on concern  Hungary  won’t
obtain aid from the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Union.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 283.07 per
euro by 11:00 a.m. in Budapest, extending its decline in the
past two trading sessions to 1.2 percent. The forint pared its
rally this year to 11 percent, still the biggest gain among more
than 100 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on the
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose one basis point to
6.886 percent, after jumping 18 basis points on Oct. 26.  The IMF and Hungary disagree on the type of financial
assistance for Budapest, chief government aid negotiator Mihaly
Varga said in an M1 television interview today. The IMF has not
announced any date to resume aid talks with Hungary, Iryna
Ivaschenko, the Washington-based lender’s representative to
Budapest, said in an e-mailed reply to questions from Bloomberg
last week, almost a year after the Cabinet made a request for
monetary support.  “It dawns on investors that there will be no aid deal
soon,”  Felix Herrmann , a Frankfurt-based analyst at DZ Bank AG,
wrote in a research report today.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps was little changed at 260 basis points,
compared with a 2 1/2 year low of 235 basis points on Oct. 17.  Hungary’s central bank will reduce its  benchmark rate 
tomorrow by 25 basis points to 6.25 percent in a third
consecutive month of cuts to help the country emerge from a
recession, according to 15 of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Two analysts expect the Monetary Council to keep
borrowing costs unchanged.  “It would be a big surprise if the central bank didn’t
deliver the rate cut tomorrow,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, an analyst
at Erste Group Bank AG, wrote in an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  