-- Fuel Retailers Face Challenge to Supply Stores as Sandy Nears
-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k ,   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J o s h u a   F a l k
-- 2012-10-29T18:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/fuel-retailers-face-challenge-to-supply-stores-as-sandy-nears.html
Northeast fuel retailers and
distributors are working to keep fueling stations stocked with
gasoline and diesel as refineries, pipelines and distribution
terminals shut for  Hurricane Sandy .  Phillips 66 closed three storage terminals in New York and
 New Jersey  and has idled its 238,000 barrel-a-day Bayway
refinery in Linden, New Jersey, the company said today. Colonial
Pipeline Co. began shutting delivery lines along the East Coast
as terminal customers in  Virginia ,  Maryland , New Jersey and New
York halted operations. Colonial’s Line 3, an 825,000-barrel-a-
day fuel pipeline running from  North Carolina  to New Jersey was
expected to shut later today.  “Wholesale rack closures have presented a challenge to
keep retail stations supplied,” said Brian Schaller, senior
director of fuel at Wawa Inc., a Pennsylvania-based a gasoline
retailer. “We’ve managed without significant interruptions.”  Hess Corp. (HES)  shut its Port Reading refinery in New Jersey.
Philadelphia Energy Solutions’ Philadelphia plant and PBF’s
Delaware City, Delaware, and Paulsboro, New Jersey, refineries
are operating at reduced rates, the companies said.  Colonial shut its delivery lines running from Linden, New
Jersey, to terminals around New York Harbor. The company’s line
delivering to  Buckeye Partners LP (BPL) ’s pipeline system was expected
to shut after 5 p.m.,  Steve Baker , a company spokesman, said.  New York, New Jersey and Delaware Bay ports were closed to
vessel traffic by the U.S. Coast Guard, halting tanker
deliveries that help supply the region’s refineries with crude
oil. There are seven plants in the area with a combined capacity
of about 1.29 million barrels a day, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Fuel Terminals  “The biggest impact on the East Coast is probably not
going to be the result of the refineries shutting down,” said
Roger Ihne, principal in the oil and gas practice at Deloitte
Consulting LLP in Houston. “The amount of refined products that
are consumed on the East Coast is about 30 percent of the total
U.S. but it only has about 9 percent of the refining capacity.”  Sustained damage to pipelines, terminals, and other
Northeast fuel distribution systems could have a larger effect
on pricing and potential supply disruptions, according to Ihne.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  shut oil terminals in
Philadelphia,  Perth Amboy and Carteret, New Jersey and Staten
Island, New York, Joe Hollier, a company spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  “We are working pretty hard to make sure the systems are
operating appropriately,” said Grant Brown, a spokesman at
Sprague Energy Resources LLC in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, one
of the largest independent wholesale fuel terminal owners in the
Northeast. “We don’t forsee any disruptions in the supply
network.”  Sprague’s Avery Lane asphalt terminal in Newington, New
Hampshire lost power, he said.  “It’s getting more and more difficult as the day goes on
because fuel distribution terminals are shutting due to the
water level,” said Joanne Conley, president of Newburgh, New
York-based Warex Terminals Corp. “We are going to make all the
deliveries as long as we can get fuel and as weather permits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Clark in  New York  at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Falk in New York at 
 jfalk19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  