-- Gazprom, Srbijagas Venture to Finance South Stream in Serbia
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-10-29T15:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/gazprom-srbijagas-venture-to-finance-south-stream-in-serbia-1-.html
Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (OGZD)  and  Serbia ’s
state gas utility Srbijagas JP will invest in building the
Serbian section of the South Stream pipeline and plan to open it
in 2015.  The 470-kilometer pipeline, with offshoots to  Croatia  and
Bosnia-Herzegovina, will cost about 1.7 billion euros ($2.2
billion), said Srbijagas Chief Executive Officer Dusan Bajatovic
at a press conference in Belgrade today. The work will start in
December, as the two companies’ Switzerland-registered joint
venture made the investment decision today, he said.  The  South Stream  project, whose stakeholders are Gazprom,
Italy’s  ENI SpA (ENI) , Germany’s Wintershall AG and  Electricite de
France SA , is designed to ship up to 63 billion cubic meters of
Russian gas across the Black Sea to southeastern and central
 Europe , without going through Ukraine. It’s a rival to the
Nabucco project that plans to ship Caspian gas via  Turkey .  Gazprom formed joint ventures for all countries where South
Stream is planned to pass, and the one with Serbia is the first
to confirm it would go ahead, Chairman Leonid Chugunov said. The
ventures for Hungary, Slovenia and Bulgaria are expected to make
similar decisions for respective territories by Dec. 15, he
said.  Financing details for the Serbian section are to be
determined with the help of a consultant, Chugunov said. without
elaborating. Serbia’s state-owned Srbijagas, a 49 percent
stakeholder, will seek to be “burdened as little as possible,
without losing or decreasing our stake,” Bajatovic said.  Pipeline Capacity  The Serbian part of the pipe will be able to carry as much
as 40 billion cubic meters a year. It will stretch from the
country’s southeastern border with  Bulgaria  to far northwest,
extending to neighboring Hungary, Bajatovic said. It will
require as much as 450,000 tons of steel tubes, for which a
tender will be called, he said.  The offshoot to Croatia will have annual capacity of 2.7
billion cubic meters, while the link to Bosnia will carry 1.2
billion cubic meters a year, he said. Links to neighboring
Macedonia and Montenegro may also be considered, he said.  Serbia expects to make 200 million euros from transit fees
a year, according to the executive.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net ;
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  