-- Germany Supports ECB Greek Debt Buyback Plan, Rejects Write-off
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-10-29T12:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/germany-supports-ecb-greek-debt-buyback-plan-rejects-write-off.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government said it is willing to consider a European Central
Bank proposal for a buyback of Greek debt, as it stepped up
opposition to imposing more losses on  Greece ’s creditors.  A restructuring of Greek sovereign debt held by its public
sector partners “is out of the question” for Germany and “not
in Greece’s interests,” Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief
spokesman, told reporters in Berlin today. At the same time,
Seibert noted that Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said
yesterday that a buyback “is worth serious discussion.”  The comments suggest the German government has changed its
view on debt buybacks. Schaeuble said earlier this month that he
had “a number of questions for which I don’t see an answer
yet” on the buyback proposal. The Frankfurter Allgemeine
Zeitung reported on Oct. 13 that the government rejected the
idea, citing officials it didn’t name.  Euro area finance ministers will hold a conference call on
Greece on Oct. 31 after German news magazine Der Spiegel
reported in this week’s edition that the so-called troika of
international creditors proposes a debt restructuring for Greece
that would require public-sector lenders to take heavy losses.  The troika of the European Commission, the ECB and the
International Monetary Fund is compiling its report on the
progress made by Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s government in
meeting internationally agreed targets that are a prerequisite
for the next tranche of aid Greece needs to stay in the euro.  Interim Report  Schaeuble said that his government received an interim
troika report last week, according to an  interview  with German
radio Deutschlandfunk broadcast yesterday.  After agreeing to the biggest-ever write-off on private
bondholders, it would “a bit unrealistic” to impose more
losses on them, he said. Members of the euro area are meanwhile
restricted by law from participating in losses, therefore so-
called official sector involvement “is a discussion that has
little to do with the reality” of euro member states, he said.  Asked about the buyback proposal, Schaeuble said that is
“something one could consider more seriously,” according to a
transcript of his comments.  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen first aired the
plan in an interview with German newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeitung
released on Oct. 12. Greece’s efforts to reduce debt to 120
percent of its gross domestic product by 2020 may be eased if it
were lent money to buy back its own bonds, which have a
current market worth below their nominal value, he said.  Asmussen Plan  Such a move, which he said was being considered among other
instruments to help Greece, would not amount to a debt write-
off, Asmussen was cited as saying. He reiterated that the ECB
could not buy the debt for the Greek government.  While there is “no concrete model” as yet for a debt
buyback, “fundamentally there’s a difference between deferring
debt and writing it off altogether,” Finance Ministry
spokeswoman Marianne Kothe said in Berlin today.  Merkel, whose country is the biggest contributor to
Greece’s 130 billion-euro ($167 billion) bailout, said in August
when Samaras visited Berlin that she was “deeply convinced” his
government would “do what it takes to solve the problem in
Greece.” She said her intention was to help Greece reach “the
light at the end of the tunnel.”  Domestic pressure on Merkel’s government was ratcheted up
today as  Germany ’s biggest-selling newspaper clashed with her
stance on Greece, saying that a second debt restructuring should
mean the end of the road for Greece’s membership of the 17-
nation euro region.  “It’s an official declaration of bankruptcy,” political
columnist Jan W. Schaefer said in an op-ed in today’s Bild. “A
country that cannot repay the debts owed to its European
partners has absolutely no claim to be in the euro. If it does
indeed come to a second debt cut, then Greece has to leave the
euro. No-one can say we haven’t done all we could.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  