-- Germany’s Schaeuble Says Ireland Won’t Need a Second Bailout
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-10-29T15:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/germany-s-schaeuble-says-ireland-won-t-need-a-second-bailout.html
German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said he is “totally confident” Ireland won’t need a
second bailout and reiterated that the country has a “special
case” on legacy bank debt.  Schaeuble, speaking to reporters in Dublin today after a
meeting with Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan, said that
while sending a “wrong signal” to investors must be avoided,
 Germany  would be “as supportive” to the nation as it has been
in the past.  “It is a very specific situation in Ireland,” Schaeuble
said. “Ireland is a special case. On the other hand we agree
that we have to avoid any announcement that could be
misunderstood in the way that everyone all over the world is
thinking that the actual program for Ireland doesn’t work well.
It works well.”  Ireland is pushing for a deal to ease the burden of its 64
billion euro ($83 billion) bank-rescue bill as it seeks to exit
an international aid program next year. German  Chancellor Angela
Merkel  said this month that Ireland had a special case, after
earlier ruling out a retrospective capitalization of banks.  Schaeuble said today that the group of euro-area finance
ministers will take Ireland’s special case into account.  The country is also negotiating with the European Central
Bank to replace about 30 billion euros of so-called promissory
notes used to bail out the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. with
long-term government securities. Schaeuble declined to comment
on that issue.  When asked whether he would agree to Ireland getting a
retrospective bank deal, Schaeuble said “there have been some
misunderstandings.”  “A lot of people, not in Ireland, maybe have had some not
realistic expectation on the issue of direct recapitalization of
banks after the declaration, the announcement of the meeting of
the heads of states and governments in late June,” he said.
“Now we are strongly working together to deliver the
preconditions for European banking supervision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net 
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  