-- Spain Bonds Drop After Retail Sales Slump
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-10-29T16:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/german-10-year-bunds-rise-for-a-second-day-before-inflation-data.html
Spanish and Italian  government bonds 
fell after a report showed Spain’s retail sales slumped in
September, underscoring the nation’s deepening recession as its
government resists seeking a sovereign bailout.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year
bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds widened for a
third day as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he’ll request a
bailout when he judges it’s in the nation’s interests. Italian
 two-year notes  declined for a sixth day, the longest run since
May, after former premier  Silvio Berlusconi ’s party threatened
to topple the government by withdrawing support. Bunds rose as
investors sought the region’s safest assets.  “Investors are becoming nervous that Spain won’t ask for
aid and then they also see the negative macro news coming from
the nation,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates
strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “There’s a lot of
political risk surrounding Spain and  Italy  and those risks are
increasing for Italy so we see some volatility in the bonds.”  Spain’s 10-year yield climbed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 5.66 percent at 4:50 p.m.  London  time,
extending its increase from this month’s low of 5.26 percent on
Oct. 19. The 5.85 percent bond due in January 2022 fell 0.455,
or 4.55 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,290) face amount, to 101.34.  The yield spread over German bunds expanded as much as 16
basis points to 421 basis points, the widest since Oct. 17.  Sales Decline  Retail sales in Spain dropped 11 percent from a year
earlier, the National Statistics Institute said. Figures on
public finances, consumer prices and gross domestic product
tomorrow are likely to confirm a deteriorating economy and debt
profile, according to Bloomberg News surveys.  Spain has yet to request a bailout that would trigger
European Central Bank purchases of its debt. The plan, unveiled
by ECB President  Mario Draghi  last month, is designed to help
contain the region’s debt crisis.  “As soon as I think that it’s good for the general
interests of Spain to ask for it I will ask for it,” Rajoy said
today at joint press conference with Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  in  Madrid . “While I don’t think that, I won’t.”  Bank of Spain deputy governor Fernando Restoy today set out
plans for establishing a so-called bad bank to buy impaired
property assets from the lenders it is bailing out. The nation
is creating the bad bank as part of its 100 billion-euro
European bank bailout.  Italian Bonds  Italian 10-year  yields  climbed to the highest in two weeks
after Berlusconi, whose People of Liberty Party is the biggest
in the national parliament, said on Oct. 27 the government’s
economic policies were deepening the recession.  National elections are due by May though there is a risk
that Berlusconi’s actions will trigger an earlier vote. Monti
told reporters in Madrid his government can’t be threatened by
parliamentary backers who consider withdrawing their support.  “The specter of political risk is beginning to rear its
head in Italy,”  Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-income analyst at
Investec Bank Plc in London, wrote in a note to clients.
Berlusconi “has begun making headlines again. The developments
over the weekend capped off a week which saw peripheral debt
trade weaker,” she said.  Italian  10-year yield  rose 11 basis points to 5.02 percent,
the highest level since Oct. 12.  Italy sold 8 billion euros of 181-day bills at an average
yield of 1.347 percent, down from 1.503 percent at the previous
auction on Sept. 26.  ‘Disappointing’ Data  German 10-year bunds advanced for a second day as
speculation the regional economy is deteriorating underpinned
demand for the securities.  “The economic data so far has been rather disappointing,
and in that sense the ECB will want to leave the door open to
another rate cut,” said Elwin de Groot, a senior market
economist at Rabobank Nederland in Utrecht. “Given that  Spain 
still hasn’t applied for official aid, we’re still in a
situation where bunds should perform fairly strongly.”  Germany ’s 10-year yield dropped eight basis points to 1.46
percent after falling to 1.45 percent, the  lowest  since Oct. 15.  Germany auctioned 1.92 billion euros of 12-month bills at
an average yield of minus 0.0095 percent. The nation last sold
12-month securities on Sept. 24 at  yield  of minus 0.018 percent.  Belgian Sale  Belgium  sold 10-year bonds at 2.418 percent, down from
2.609 percent last month and the least since the introduction of
the euro in 1999. The nation also auctioned debt maturing in
2017, 2032 and 2035.  The Belgian auction “was well absorbed,” Annalisa Piazza,
a strategist at Newedge Group in London, wrote in an e-mail to
clients. “Demand for non-German core debt is still solid.”  The yield on  Belgian 10-year bond  fell three basis points
to 2.43 percent.  Volatility on Germany bonds was the highest among euro-area
markets today, followed by those of the Netherlands and  Finland ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the spread between two-
and 10-year securities, and credit default swaps.  German bonds returned 2.8 percent this year through Oct.
26, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities
also gained 2.8 percent, while Italy’s rose 17 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  