-- Giants Cash In on Early Errors, Hold on for Win as Cowboys Rally
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/giants-cash-in-on-early-errors-hold-on-for-win-as-cowboys-rally.html
The  New York Giants  cashed in on
early errors by the Cowboys and held on for a 29-24 win in
 Dallas  that extends their lead atop the National Football
Conference East Division.  The Giants led 23-0 less than two minutes into the second
quarter at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington,  Texas , yesterday,
scoring 20 points after a series of botched plays by the
Cowboys. The home team then scored 24 unanswered points to seize
the lead before a pair of field goals secured victory for the
visitors, who have now won four straight in Dallas.  “It shouldn’t have been as close as it was,” Giants
defensive end Osi Umenyiora told reporters. “We let them come
back into the game and we shouldn’t have.”  After limiting Dallas quarterback  Tony Romo  to 37 passing
yards and the Cowboys to 48 yards of total offense in the first
quarter, Romo threw for 400 yards the remainder of the game.  By contrast, New York quarterback Eli Manning amassed 79
passing yards in the first quarter before being limited to 45 in
the second and third quarters. The Giants gained 103 yards of
total offense in the first quarter and then slumped to 53 and 32
yards in the second and third, respectively, before recovering
to 105 yards in the fourth.  New York leads the NFC East with a 6-2 record over the
Cowboys and  Philadelphia Eagles , who both have 3-4 marks. The
 Washington Redskins  are last, at 3-5. The Eagles lost 30-17 to
the  Atlanta Falcons  and the Pittsburgh Steelers defeated the
Redskins 27-12 yesterday in the  National Football League .  Trailing 3-0 after New York’s opening possession, Dallas’
first drive ended with Stevie Brown intercepting Romo and
returning the ball 37 yards. Tynes converted the turnover into
another three points with a 37-yard field goal.  Romo Interception  On the home team’s second drive, Romo’s deep pass intended
for  Miles Austin  was picked off by Corey Webster and returned 38
yards to the Cowboys’ 31-yard line. Four plays later, Andre Brown scored on a 1-yard run for New York.  Dallas’ third drive ended in a punt following a fumble by
Ryan Cook that Romo recovered before throwing an incomplete
pass. On the next possession, New York got the ball at the
Dallas 15-yard line after Dez Bryant fumbled a punt and Michael Coe recovered the ball. The error led to another three points as
Tynes made a 26-yard field goal to make it 16-0.  Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  told reporters he was frustrated
his team couldn’t convert the turnovers into more touchdowns.  “I kept calculating in the first half if those field goals
had been touchdowns,” Coughlin said. “The touchdowns certainly
would have made a big difference.”  Turnover Touchdown  New York did succeed in getting seven points from Romo’s
next interception, which  Jason Pierre-Paul  returned 28 yards for
his first career touchdown.  “I was supposed to rush on that play,” Pierre-Paul told
reporters. “I was kind of patient on my rush. It looked like he
was going to throw it that way, so I just jumped up and caught
the ball and ran it.”  Romo ended the game with four interceptions to take his
total for the season to an NFL-high 13.  “The early turnovers were too difficult to overcome,”
Cowboys coach  Jason Garrett  told reporters. “We simply have to
do a better job of taking care of the ball and going to get the
ball from them. That was the difference in the ballgame.”  During a first-half break in play, loud jeers engulfed the
stadium as the image of Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  appeared on
the television screen above the field in an appeal for the Susan
G. Komen for the Cure cancer charity.  Cowboys’ Comeback  Dallas kept New York at bay on its last four possessions of
the first half and began its comeback when Felix Jones rounded
out an eight play, 72-yard drive with a 4-yard touchdown run.
Dan Bailey added a field goal from 51 yards to make it 23-10 at
halftime.  Romo continued the recovery in the third quarter when he
scrambled for a 1-yard score and found John Phillips with a 1-
yard touchdown pass to give his team a 24-23 lead.  “We did a great job of coming back into this game,”
Dallas cornerback Morris Claiborne told reporters. “Our offense
did a tremendous job of fighting and we tried to hold up our end
of the bargain.”  After failing to score on six straight possessions,  New
York  retook the lead for good on a pair of field goals by Tynes
from 43 and 37 yards. The second field goal came after Jones
fumbled at the Cowboys’ 45-yard line with 6:40 left.  Romo’s final interception came on an attempted fourth-down
conversion with 1:14 to play, sending Cowboys fans streaming
toward the exits. Those who left missed the game’s final twist.  With 10 seconds to play, Romo hit a leaping Dez Bryant in
the back of the end zone from 37 yards. Following a review,
Bryant was ruled to have touched the back line of the end zone
with his right hand before his body hit the turf inbounds.  “Tremendous play,” Garrett said. “Tony made a great
throw, Dez made a great catch and apparently missed it by an
inch or so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas,
   atdmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 