-- Giants Sweep Tigers for Second World Series Title in Three Years
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-29T05:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/giants-beat-tigers-4-3-for-second-world-series-title-in-3-years.html
The  San Francisco Giants  captured
their second World Series title in three years with a four-game
sweep of the  Detroit Tigers  that followed comebacks during the
first two rounds of  Major League Baseball ’s postseason.  Marco Scutaro’s run-scoring single in the top of the 10th
inning gave the Giants a 4-3 victory last night in  Detroit  and
the seventh championship in franchise history.  The Giants, whose 103 regular-season home runs were the
fewest among MLB’s 30 teams, won the World Series behind a
pitching staff that allowed just seven runs in a seven-game,
season-ending winning streak. After staving off elimination six
times in rallying to win postseason series against the
Cincinnati Reds and St.  Louis Cardinals , the Giants outscored
Detroit 16-6 in the  World Series  and limited the Tigers to 12
hits in the final three games.  “We overcame a lot of adversity, a lot of challenges
throughout the year and then six elimination games,” Giants
President Laurence Baer said at the post-game trophy
presentation. “This team had a lot of heart and the fans of  San
Francisco  behind them.”  Scutaro snapped a 3-3 tie with his two-out single to
centerfield off Tigers reliever Phil Coke, who hadn’t allowed a
run in his previous nine appearances in the postseason.  Giants relievers Jeremy Affeldt, Santiago Casilla and
Sergio Romo held the Tigers hitless over the final three innings
in relief of starting pitcher  Matt Cain , who allowed three runs
over seven innings. Romo struck out the side in the bottom of
the 10th and got Triple Crown winner  Miguel Cabrera  looking at a
called third strike to end the game. The Giants players then
raced to the mound to begin a celebration that carried into a
champagne-soaked visitor’s clubhouse.  Fitting End  “It was a fitting way for us to end it,” said Giants
catcher  Buster Posey , who had a two-run home run in the sixth
inning to help his team erase its only deficit of the World
Series. “Those guys played hard. They didn’t stop. It’s just an
unbelievable feeling.”  The Giants are the third National League team in 68 years
with two World Series titles in a three-year span after the
1975-76 Reds and the 1963, 1965  Los Angeles Dodgers .  It’s the 21st World Series sweep since 1903 and the first
by an NL team since the 1990 Reds.  “They beat us, they earned it,” Tigers manager  Jim Leyland  said. “We didn’t hit enough. For a team that was down
to Cincinnati 0-2 and won, and then fought their way through the
other series, they deserve it. They’re world champions.”  Former Underdogs  The Giants had entered the World Series as underdogs after
their first two playoff series went the distance. Odds at Las
Vegas sportsbooks following the two league championship series
indicated the Giants had a 38 percent chance of beating the
Tigers, who had swept the  New York Yankees  to win the American
League pennant.  San Francisco bucked those odds and ran off a streak in
which it didn’t trail for 56 postseason innings. The Giants fell
short of the 2004 Boston Red Sox’s record of 60 innings as
Cabrera hit a two-run home run in the third inning last night to
give the Tigers a 2-1 lead.  The Giants ranked eighth among MLB’s 30 clubs with a
season-opening player payroll of $118 million, while the Tigers
were fifth at $132 million. The team with the higher payroll had
won the previous six World Series titles.  While Game 7 starter Cain is regarded as the Giants’ ace
and pitched a perfect game on June 13 of this season, a pair of
reclamation projects helped fuel the team’s postseason success.  Other Aces  Barry Zito, a former Cy Young Award winner who was left off
the Giants’ World Series roster in 2010, went 2-0 with a 1.69
earned run average this postseason. And 35-year-old Ryan Vogelsong, who two years ago was pitching in the minor leagues
and the Venezuelan winter league, had a 3-0 record in four
starts with a 1.09 ERA. Vogelsong’s postseason ERA was the
lowest by a starting pitcher with at least 24 innings since  Orel Hershiser  had a 1.05 ERA in 1988 for the Dodgers.  “They deserve all the credit,” Posey said of the Giants’
staff. “They executed pitches. They had a game plan going in.
Tons of credit to Dave Righetti, our pitching coach.”  The Giants won the title despite the absence of two of
their top players and a two-time Cy Young Award winner relegated
to pitching in relief.  Relief pitcher Brian “The Beard” Wilson, who had 84 saves
over the previous two seasons, appeared in only two games this
year before having elbow surgery in April. Outfielder Melky Cabrera was leading the NL with a .346 batting average when he
was suspended 50 games by MLB on Aug. 15 for using the banned
muscle builder testosterone.  Sandoval’s Award  Tim Lincecum , who won NL Cy Young awards in 2008 and 2009,
lost his only postseason start after going 10-15 with a 5.18 ERA
during the regular season. He turned things around as a reliever
in the playoffs, going 1-0 with a 0.69 ERA over 13 innings in
five games. Giants third baseman Pablo Sandoval, who was benched
for most of the World Series in 2010, was named Most Valuable
Player of the championship round this year after hitting .500
with three homers.  “It was such an unselfish group,” Giants manager Bruce Bochy said. “They played for themselves and the fans, and had a
never-say-die attitude. We put them in different roles and they
never complained. It makes a manager’s job easy.”  Postseason Comebacks  The Giants showed a similar resiliency in the postseason
after winning the NL West division title with a 94-68 record.  After falling behind two-games-to-none against Cincinnati
in the division series, the Giants rallied to win the final
three games. San Francisco was in a 3-1 hole in the NLCS against
the defending-champion Cardinals and again won three in a row to
reach the World Series.  The Giants entered the championship round with momentum
while the Tigers came in rested, having had five days off after
completing a four-game sweep of the Yankees in the American
League Division series. It was the fourth World Series meeting
between a team pushed to a decisive seventh game and a club
coming off a sweep. And for the fourth time, the team that
played a seven-game LCS went on to win the World Series.  “They pitched their butts off and shut down our bats,”
Coke said. “I don’t think the layoff had anything to do with it.
They just went out and earned it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  