-- Global Banks Caught in Capital Rules Delays, Basel Group Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-29T13:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/global-banks-caught-in-capital-rules-delays-basel-group-says.html
Most global banks deemed too big to
fail may not be forced to start applying international capital
and liquidity rules from January because national lawmakers are
struggling to meet the deadline for implementing them,
regulators said today.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said there’s a
“high probability” that some nations won’t meet a Jan. 1,
2013, deadline for overhauling their bank capital rules. The
laggards, including the U.S. and European Union, contain the
majority of the world’s systemic banks, it said in a report
published on its  website .  “This means there is now a high probability that just six
of the 29  globally systemically important banks ” will be
covered by the so-called Basel III rules from the “agreed start
date,” the group said in the report, submitted to the Group of
20 nations.  Global regulators last year compiled the list of 29 so-
called globally systemic banks, saying they should hold more
capital than required by other international agreements.
Citigroup Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  were provisionally
earmarked to face the top level of surcharges, set at 2.5
percent of risk-weighted assets.  Those surcharges would come on top of Basel III standards,
and would be phased in from 2016. Other parts of the Basel
overhaul are scheduled to take effect from January and should be
fully applied by 2019.  International Standards  Stefan Ingves, chairman of the Basel committee, said today
he’s seeking swift progress toward implementation of the
international standards.  “We expect that the remaining jurisdictions will be able
to finalize their rules swiftly and in a way that is true to the
globally agreed minimum requirements,” he said.  The Basel group said that “only eight” of its 27 members
have taken all necessary steps to implement the standards, which
more that triple the core capital that lenders must hold against
losses. These are:  Australia ,  China ,  Hong Kong ,  India ,  Japan ,
Saudi Arabia, Singapore and Switzerland.  Global regulators have said they’ll publish an updated list
of systemically important banks once it’s been submitted to a
meeting of G-20 finance ministers next month.  The Basel group is also carrying out “on-site visits” of
banks as part of a probe into whether lenders are correctly
assessing the risk of losses on their assets, according to the
report.  Preliminary inspections have shown “material unexplained”
differences in the losses banks expect to suffer, according to
the report. Detailed findings will be reported to the committee
“around the end of 2012 or early 2013.”  Diplomats will discuss the EU’s implementation of the Basel
rules at a meeting on Oct. 31, according to the bloc’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  