-- Goldman Sachs Ducks Behind Sandbags as Sandy Aims at NYC
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-10-30T00:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/goldman-sachs-ducks-behind-sandbags-as-sandy-aims-at-nyc.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  surrounded
its headquarters with sandbags, and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  closed
flood-prone offices as water driven by  Hurricane Sandy  lapped
into Manhattan.  Banks shifted duties to other cities and had some New York-
based employees working at home as exchanges closed so financial
industry employees wouldn’t risk their lives amid the largest
Atlantic tropical storm system recorded. Sandy forced the halt
of subways and the interruption of electricity, and U.S. stock
trading was canceled yesterday and today, the first time weather
caused consecutive days of shutdowns for exchanges since 1888.  Predictions of an 11-foot  storm surge  prompted Goldman
Sachs to stack sandbags around its West Street office in  Lower
Manhattan , home to some of the world’s largest financial firms,
as the city ordered downtown neighborhoods evacuated. Partial
shutdowns included offices of the nation’s three biggest banks,
JPMorgan,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “We operate in  60 countries  and have these types of events
happen outside the U.S. more commonly than they do in places
like  New York ,” said JPMorgan co-Chief Operating Officer Frank Bisignano in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “We’ve seen tsunamis in  Asia ,
we’ve seen floods in India and managed through volcanoes in
Chile. Until the event occurs, you really don’t know the impact
on your business.”  Fixed-income trading at Goldman Sachs was mostly limited to
money markets and ensuring clients had funding they needed to
meet obligations that are coming due, said a person familiar
with the bank, who declined to be identified because the
information is private. Plans may be the same today, according
to the person.  Power Cut  Goldman Sachs is counting on employees in locations
including London and Salt Lake City, with the West Street office
scheduled to be closed today, according to a memo from Chief
Administrative Officer Jeffrey Schroeder.  Consolidated Edison Inc.,  New York City ’s utility, said
late yesterday it was cutting power to parts of lower Manhattan
as flood waters threatened underground electrical systems. The
cuts affected more than 5,000 customers, the utility said.  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank , closed all buildings and
branches in New York’s Zone A, the mandatory evacuation area,
the four main heads of retail and mortgage operations said in an
e-mail to the bank’s 160,000 retail employees. Bisignano said in
the interview the New York-based company has about 35,000 people
who may be affected by the storm.  ‘Very Light’  While some trading still occurred, “it was a very light
day, I mean very, very light,” Bisignano said. “Even though
there’s fabulous remote ability by every company in this
industry, including by our clients, you saw most people focused
on safety at home.”  More than 20,000 of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s employees used remote
connections to work from home, according to a staff memo from
 Jim Rosenthal , chief operating officer of the New York-based
investment bank.  Citigroup’s main U.S.-based trading office at 388-390
Greenwich Ave. is included in New York’s mandatory evacuation
order, as are some branches and an office at 111 Wall St.,
according to the bank.  Bank of America , the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
said it closed its offices at Two and Four World Financial
Center as well as all of its New York City branches and Merrill
Lynch wealth-management offices in New York and the mid-Atlantic
markets.  American Express Co. (AXP) , the credit-card lender with
headquarters in Lower Manhattan, will shut all its offices in
the tri-state region today, the second straight day of closures,
a spokeswoman said.  European Banks  European-based firms including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Credit
Suisse,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , which have offices outside of
the mandatory evacuation zone, made arrangements to provide
transportation and hotels for workers.  UBS booked hotels for staff in Manhattan, Stamford,
Connecticut, and Weehawken,  New Jersey , according to  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman at the Zurich-based bank. Paris-based BNP
Paribas told all non-critical workers to work from home and is
providing hotel rooms for staff who are reporting to the office,
said Cesaltine Gregorio, a New York-based spokeswoman.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s second-largest bank by market
value, told most of its staff in New York City and New Jersey to
stay home, said  Jim Galvin , a spokesman for the Paris-based
bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors; responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  