-- Liberty Proceeds With Telenet Deal Amid Valuation Dispute
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-10-30T09:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/liberty-proceeds-with-telenet-deal-amid-valuation-dispute.html
Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  doesn’t plan to
change its offer to buy out the shares of  Belgium ’s  Telenet
Group Holding NV (TNET)  for 35 euros ($45) a share, despite a  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ)  report saying the company is worth 37 euros to 42 euros.  Liberty announced plans last month to buy the almost 50
percent of Telenet that it doesn’t already own for a total of
about 2 billion euros. Lazard, a financial advisory firm, was
hired to assess the shares under Belgian takeover rules.
Liberty, a cable company led by billionaire  John Malone , said
yesterday that Lazard’s methodology was flawed.  “ Liberty Global  has serious reservations regarding the
long-term business plan assumptions that were used in the
valuation report prepared by Lazard,” the Englewood, Colorado-
based company said yesterday in a statement. “Liberty Global
believes that these assumptions form a speculative plan that
cannot be reasonably achieved or implemented.”  The U.S. company, working with Morgan Stanley, values the
Belgian cable provider at 28 euros to 35 euros a share,
according to the statement. It also removed the 95 percent
requirement for acceptance of the offer.  Shares Drop  “Liberty Global continues to believe that the offer price
represents a meaningful premium to its view on the intrinsic
value of Telenet and a unique opportunity for the shareholders
to monetize their entire investment at a time when the European
cable sector is trading at a multiyear high,” Liberty Global
said.  Telenet dropped as much as 1.8 percent to 35.22 euros in
Brussels and was down 1.1 percent as of 10:23 a.m. Liberty
Global dropped 1.9 percent to the equivalent of $59.42 in
Frankfurt trading. The stock closed at $60.40 on Oct. 26 in the
U.S. and didn’t trade yesterday because  New York  markets were
shut in anticipation of a tropical storm.  Telenet’s Response  Telenet’s board of directors is preparing a response to
Liberty Global that will argue its valuation is higher than
Liberty’s offer, the company said in a separate statement. The
Swiss bank UBS AG is assisting in the preparations.  Vincent Bruyneel, a spokesman for Telenet, declined to
comment on Liberty’s statement.  The current offer values Telenet at 5.6 times its earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. That
compares with a median multiple of 5.3 for 114
telecommunications deals in Western  Europe  in the past year.  The deal would increase Liberty’s role in Europe, already
its biggest market for cable customers. The transaction also
would allow Liberty to save money from duplicate operations and
take advantage of “untapped synergies,” Liberty Chief
Executive Officer Mike Fries said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  