-- Libor-Rigging Banks Leave London Customers Disillusioned
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-10-29T15:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/libor-rigging-banks-leave-london-customers-disillusioned.html
British lawyer  David Doble  held a
conference at a Frankfurt hotel this month to tell an audience
of German Landesbank executives they had good reason to seek
punishment for those who rigged  interest rates .  It was an about-face for Doble to be touring  Europe  talking
to investors about how to recoup losses from lenders. He used to
work for big banks drafting securitization deals, so he’s more
familiar than most with esoteric financial products and what
happens when they go wrong.  While U.S homeowners, a futures trader and the City of
Baltimore have sued banks claiming they were harmed by the
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate and other
benchmark rates, potential victims in Europe have been slower to
come forward. Guardian Care Homes Ltd., one of the few companies
to file a Libor-related lawsuit in the U.K., started laying out
its case at a London court hearing today.  “Individuals within the banks that were manipulating Libor
were doing so in contemplation of making gains for themselves
and their trading desks,” Doble said at the event. “If they
were making gains, then somebody out there was suffering
losses.”  Regulators across the globe are investigating claims banks
altered submissions that were used to set Libor in an effort to
benefit traders, or to appear financially healthier than they
were.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  paid a 290 million-pound ($465.5 million)
fine in June to settle with regulators over rate rigging.  Guardian Lawsuit  Guardian, a Wolverhampton, England-based company that
provides housing for the elderly, claims a Libor-based interest-
rate swap bought from Barclays isn’t valid because the bank
knew, or should have known, the rate wasn’t accurate. The deal
cost Guardian, which isn’t represented by Doble, about 12
million pounds, according to the lawsuit.  “With Libor fixed to stay low, banks knew full well that
there was no way businesses like mine would do anything but lose
out on a hedging product,” Guardian Chief Executive Officer
Gary Hartland said in an e-mail. It’s right that “individuals
involved should face criminal charges for the damage caused, and
that these toxic products based on Libor be rescinded.”  Guardian wants its money back and for the swaps to end
without having to pay a break fee. The company’s lawyer, Tim
Lord, today used evidence from U.S. and U.K. regulators to link
London-based Barclays to Libor manipulation.  Fixing Purposes  Barclays and its senior managers “consistently sought to
lower submissions for the purposes of the Libor fixing
process,” Lord said. Guardian is also seeking disclosure of
thousands of internal e-mails from Barclays.  Lawyers for the bank sought to remove the Libor-related
claims from the Guardian lawsuit, which was filed before the
scandal was widely publicized.  “This business had a suite of advisers, including
Rothschilds, as well as several law firms and a lot of financial
experience and skill in-house,” said John McGuinness, a
Barclays spokesman. “Barclays understands the client entered
into their swap agreements with sufficient understanding to
exercise their own judgment as to whether the products would
meet their business objectives. This is a significant business
which owes Barclays 70 million pounds. We do not believe any
aspect of the case has merit and are defending it.”  Doble is working with lawyers pushing investors, consumers
and companies like Guardian to hold lenders accountable for
shifting the baseline on which about $300 trillion of contracts
worldwide are built.  Lost Business  How much those losses may total and what the banks will
have to cover -- or suffer in lost business -- isn’t clear.
Morgan Stanley analysts predict Libor-related lawsuits may end
up costing 16 banks, including  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , as much as $6 billion collectively.  The  New York  Attorney General subpoenaed nine additional
lenders including  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, Royal Bank of Canada, and
Bank of America Corp. in its Libor manipulation probe, a person
familiar with the matter said last week. That brings to 16 the
total number of banks subpoenaed in the states’ investigation.  The fallout goes beyond litigation costs. Jane Coffey, who
manages 12 billion pounds as head of U.K. equities of Royal
London Asset Management Ltd., said Libor and other controversies
have made her reluctant to invest in British banks.  Culture Breakdown  “The Libor scandal is another example of the breakdown of
culture within these organizations,” she said in an interview.
“There are so many scandals banks can be fined for, or will
have to compensate for, that it is difficult to quantify.”  A $2.3 billion loss at UBS AG on unauthorized trades and
mis-selling of loan insurance and interest swaps, which prompted
Barclays to set aside 1 billion pounds to cover customer claims,
have hit bank profits and damaged London’s reputation as a
financial center.  PGGM NV, a Dutch pension provider that manages about 125
billion euros ($163 billion), said it’s taking action, though
not necessarily in the courts. As part of its responsible
investment program, the  money manager  said Libor activities will
be a factor in deciding which banks it does business with.  “PGGM is concerned about this scandal, which increases the
distrust in the financial sector and affects PGGM and its
institutional clients,” spokeswoman Ellen Habermehl said.  Traders Suspended  The company, based in Zeist, was part of a U.S. class-
action lawsuit by shareholders against Bank of America Corp.
over losses from its acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co. Bank of
America agreed to pay $2.43 billion to settle the case last
month.  More evidence about how rates were manipulated has emerged
since August, when RBS fired four traders. This month the bank
suspended its head of rates trading in Europe and Asia-Pacific,
Jezri Mohideen, as it probes evidence traders and their managers
regularly tried to influence Libor submissions between 2007 and
2010, according to a person familiar with the matter that
declined to be identified. RBS is investigating its procedures
and cooperating with regulators,  Linda Harper , a bank
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Internal Messages  Internal messages from both RBS and Barclays show traders
boasting of how they influenced Libor submissions. That doesn’t
mean suing them will be easy, said Edward Allen, a lawyer at
London-based Enyo Law, who spoke at the Frankfurt meeting.  “There is no silver bullet,” he said. Part of the problem
is determining what the Libor rate should have been, without
manipulation, to work out what, if anything, was lost and by
whom.  Swaps that had a “trigger provision” linked to Libor --
meaning if the rate reached a certain level, the bank paid less
interest to the contract holder, causing an easy-to-measure loss
-- may be the focus of the first cases, Doble said at the
conference. Doble, who specializes in advising investors on
their derivative contracts with banks, presented data showing
that as much as $230 trillion of swaps were tied to Libor.  Other claims may come under antitrust law if regulators
find banks colluded to fix rates, according to Cologne-based
lawyer Maxim Kleine, who is advising some German municipalities.  If Guardian gets its way and a judge rules its swap was
invalidated by Libor rigging, it could have ramifications for
$300 trillion worth of contracts worldwide.  Tom Hibbert, a lawyer at U.K. firm RPC who isn’t involved
in the suit, thinks it unlikely any judge will tear up contracts
instead of awarding damages for losses.  “The impact of that on the financial system would be
substantial,” he said. “It’s a brave judge who causes that
sort of apocalypse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  