-- Illinois Rally Defies Warning of Pension Insolvency: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/illinois-rally-defies-warning-of-pension-insolvency-muni-credit.html
Debt sold by  Illinois  issuers is
rallying the most in 20 months in the face of a warning that the
state’s pensions may run out of money and drain funding from
education, infrastructure and local aid.  Investors seeking to enhance returns amid the lowest
municipal  interest rates  in a generation shrank the  extra yield 
on bonds of Illinois and its localities to 1.43 percentage
points last week, the least since February 2011, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The yield spread relative to AAA tax-exempts
is still the highest among 19 states tracked by Bloomberg.  Debt-holders in the lowest-rated U.S. state by Moody’s
Investors Service are willing to take the risk because of their
confidence in getting repaid. Illinois is one of seven states
with the strongest legal provisions for paying debt service on
its general obligations, according to  Fidelity Investments .  “You would think the state would be penalized for its
lower rating, but I believe people look at its statutory
requirement to pay debt,” said Michael Belsky, head of muni
research at SF Investments Inc., which oversees about $500
million in  Highland Park , Illinois. “Before they pay the
governor, build a highway or fund a prison, they have to pay
debt service first.”  Growing Appetite  Illinois joins lower-rated issuers in the $3.7 trillion
muni market benefiting as  sinking yields  spur investors to
stomach more risk. Near-junk hospital debt has rallied the most
in four years just months before potential Medicare cuts. The
yield penalty for  California , rated one step above Illinois by
Moody’s, is close to the slimmest since 2008.  Investors got the latest reminder of Illinois’s fiscal
challenges last week. A group headed by  Paul Volcker  and  Richard Ravitch  said in a report that the state’s pensions are
“destined for insolvency” and may absorb a quarter of the
state’s budget in 2015.  The fifth-most-populous state’s retirement system had 43.4
percent of assets needed to cover promised obligations in 2011,
the weakest among the 50 states, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Two months ago today,  Standard & Poor’s  cut the state’s
credit one level to A, sixth-highest, citing retiree costs, and
gave it a negative outlook. Moody’s downgraded the debt in
January to A2, also sixth-highest.  Failed Session  State lawmakers failed to advance any measures in a special
session called by Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn  on Aug. 17 that
sought to address $83 billion of unfunded pension liabilities.  “The culture of budget gimmickry and short-sightedness
pushes costs off to the future, but eventually that will be
impossible -- retirees may lose their pensions as the funds
dwindle,” the State Budget Crisis Task Force wrote in last
week’s study. Volcker, a former Federal Reserve chairman, and
Ravitch, a former lieutenant governor of New York, are co-
chairmen of its advisory board.  Richard Ciccarone  at McDonnell Investment Management LLC
said the state’s pension deficit and backlog of $8 billion in
unpaid bills mean its fiscal prospects may deteriorate further.  “They’ve got a long way to go to prove themselves,” said
Ciccarone, chief research officer at  Oak Brook , Illinois-based
McDonnell, which oversees about $8 billion in munis. “It’s very
hard to feel that their interest in correcting these problems
will lead to a solution without a crisis.”  ‘Miniscule’ Risk  Some investors still can’t get enough Illinois bonds
“because they’re cheap, and the risk of non-payment is
miniscule,” said Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord,
Massachusetts-based research firm Municipal Market Advisors.  The state has also had some cause for fiscal cheer. Its
revenue has grown 2.9 percent in the fiscal year that started
July 1, beating the state’s 1.8 percent estimate, according to
MMA. The boost comes in part from the temporary increase in
personal-income taxes that Quinn pushed for in 2011.  Highlighting the appeal of higher-yielding securities,
interest rates on local debt held close to  45-year lows  last
week. Twenty-year general-obligations yielded 3.68 percent,
after touching 3.6 percent in January, the lowest since 1967,
according to a Bond Buyer index.  The state pays its debt service by allocating money to its
General Obligation Bond Retirement and Interest Fund, according
to John Sinsheimer, Illinois’s director of  capital markets . At
the end of each month, it adds enough cash to cover one-sixth of
semiannual coupon payments and one-twelfth of all principal
payments.  Only  South Carolina ,  Minnesota ,  Utah ,  Missouri , Texas and
 Virginia  have safeguards that are equal to or better than
Illinois’s, according to a Fidelity  report  released in May 2011.
No state has missed payments since Arkansas in 1933.  Following are pending sales:  CONNECTICUT plans to sell $400 million in general-
obligation bonds as soon as this week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. About $220 million will taxable securities.
(Added Oct. 29)  THE TRUST FOR CULTURAL RESOURCES OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK,
which sells debt on behalf of museums and non-profits, plans to
issue $112.5 million of revenue bonds as soon as this week, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Wildlife Conservation Society
will use the proceeds to help finance a building for sharks and
other sea creatures at the  New York  Aquarium in Coney Island.
The deal will also fund renovations at the Bronx Zoo and
refinance debt, according to offering documents. (Updated Oct.
29)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  