-- Linde Targets Extra 900 Million Euros in Savings to Boost Profit
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-10-29T08:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/linde-targets-extra-900-million-euros-in-savings-to-boost-profit.html
Linde AG (LIN) , the industrial gas maker
that’s set to overtake  Air Liquide SA (AI)  to become the world’s
biggest, has extended a savings program until 2016 to boost
profitability and counter an economic slowdown.  Linde plans to save an additional 750 million euros ($969
million) to 900 million euros in the next four years, the
Munich-based company said today. The company’s acquisition of
Lincare Holdings Inc. helped third-quarter operating profit beat
analyst estimates on higher sales of oxygen to respiratory
disease patients for treatment at home.  Linde has doubled its North America gases sales with the
$3.8 billion purchase of Lincare in August and the acquisition
of Air Products & Chemicals Inc.’s home care business in
January. Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Reitzle said today he
will seek further savings in purchasing,  information technology 
and the cylinder and liquefied gas supply chain.  “This will help to reinforce our high level of
profitability even in a challenging environment,” Reitzle said
in the statement. “We are still on track, even though the
economic situation has worsened in the past few months.”  Linde shares gained as much as 2.1 percent, and were up 1.6
percent at 130.85 euros as of 9:27 a.m. in Frankfurt trading.
The stock has increased 14 percent this year, boosting the
company’s market value to 24 billion euros.  Echoing Rivals  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization including joint ventures advanced to 908 million
euros in the quarter. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
estimated 892 million euros. Sales rose 13 percent to 3.89
billion euros, beating a 3.80 billion-euro analyst estimate.  The Lincare acquisition contributed 231 million euros in
revenue and boosted operating profit margins. Demand for gases
in  Europe  was negatively affected by “unfavorable” economic
conditions in the euro region, Linde said.  Linde’s comments echo those of Air Liquide, which on Oct.
25 reported higher-than-expected quarterly sales as demand in
the U.S. and developing economies offset slowing revenue in
western Europe and  Japan . Smaller rival  Air Products & Chemicals
Inc. (APD)  missed estimates on Oct. 19.  Linde today reiterated a goal for earnings and sales to
increase this year as well as a target to reach 4 billion euros
in operating profit in the 2013 financial year. Return on
capital employed will be at least 14 percent in 2015, Linde
reiterated.  Third-quarter net income gained 7.9 percent to 313 million
euros, ahead of a 292 million-euro prediction in the Bloomberg
survey. Earnings per share in the three months through September
remained at 1.70 euros because Linde’s 1.4 billion-euro capital
increase in July boosted the number of shares outstanding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  