-- Most Indian Stocks Climb Before RBI Policy; Bharat Heavy Falls
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-10-29T10:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/indian-stock-futures-gain-before-central-bank-s-economic-report.html
Most Indian stocks advanced before a
central bank report on  Asia ’s third-largest economy today and an
interest-rate decision tomorrow.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose less than
0.1 percent to 18,638.17, accordingly to preliminary closing
prices in Mumbai. Sixteen shares climbed and 14 dropped on the
30-stock gauge, which changed directions at least 12 times.
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s largest refining
complex, climbed the most in a week.  Bharat Heavy Electricals
Ltd. (BHEL) , the biggest power-equipment maker, fell the most in nine
months after reporting net income that trailed estimates.  India’s central bank will leave  interest rates  unchanged at
8 percent, 16 of 28 economists said in a Bloomberg News survey.
Eleven expect a second cut this year, to 7.75 percent, and one
7.5 percent. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram has called
for lower borrowing costs to back an economic-policy revamp that
includes fuel-subsidy curbs to narrow a budget gap, steps to
spur investment and efforts to bolster the rupee.  “The eventual direction of  interest rates  is down, so
whether they do it in this meeting or they do it in the next
meeting is not very important,”  Ridham Desai , India managing
director at Morgan Stanley, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV
India today. “What’s more important is that the liquidity in
the market doesn’t get squeezed.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India may cut banks’  reserve ratio  by
25 basis points to 4.25 percent, according to 18 of 28 analysts
in another Bloomberg survey. Two expect a reduction of 50 basis
points and the rest no change.  The Sensex has increased 21 percent this year, driven by
overseas fund purchases and government policy reforms announced
since mid-September to revive the economy. Foreign funds bought
a net $18.2 billion of local shares this year, the most among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding  China . They were
net buyers for a fifth day on Oct. 23, purchasing a net $79.6
million of shares, data from the regulator show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in  Mumbai  at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  