-- India’s Chidambaram Outlines Deficit Plan Before RBI Policy
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-10-29T09:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/india-seeks-to-narrow-budget-gap-to-3-of-gdp-chidambaram-says.html
India  unveiled a road map to curb
its budget deficit to the least in nine years by 2017, a move
seen as a bid to persuade the central bank to cut interest rates
in its monetary policy review tomorrow.  The government will gradually reduce fiscal deficit to 3
percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months through March
2017 starting from 5.3 percent in the current year that began
April 1, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in a
briefing in New Delhi today to outline a fiscal consolidation
path. He reiterated the goal of raising money from the sale of
shares in state companies and an auction of telecom permits.  India began an overhaul of economic policy last month,
including fuel-subsidy curbs to pare a  deficit  that has put the
nation’s investment-grade credit rating at risk. The central
bank, due to announce its interest-rate decision tomorrow, has
signaled that curbing the shortfall would boost room for a
reduction in borrowing costs to revive growth.  “This is an attempt to create space for a favorable
monetary policy response tomorrow,” said Shubhada Rao, chief
economist in Mumbai at Yes Bank Ltd. “The government has
reiterated its commitment toward fiscal discipline and keeping
slippage to manageable levels.”  The rupee has strengthened more than 2.5 percent against
the dollar since Sept. 13, when the government announced an
increase in diesel prices and limited the supply of subsidized
cooking gas. It opened industries including retail to more
foreign investment the next day.  Flagship Programs  The currency weakened 0.7 percent to 53.95 per dollar as of
3:06 p.m. in Mumbai, while the BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of
stocks was little changed. The yield on the 10-year bonds due
June 2022 stayed at 8.13 percent.  “The burden of fiscal consolidation should be shared
fairly and equitably by different classes of stakeholders,”
Chidambaram said today. “The poor should be protected and
others must bear their fair share of the burden. All flagship
programs designed to help the poor and bring about inclusive
development will be fully protected under the revised fiscal
consolidation plan.”  The Reserve Bank will leave the  repurchase rate  at 8
percent for a fourth meeting, 19 of 33 economists said in a
Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s policy decision, while
13 predict a cut to 7.75 percent and one to 7.5 percent.  “The ball is now in the RBI’s court,” Arvind Mayaram,
Economic Affairs Secretary, told reporters after the finance
minister’s briefing. “The government has decided on what it has
to do, now they have to take a call.”  Panel Recommendations  Chidambaram said he accepted some of the recommendations of
a panel he set up to study ways of containing the budget gap. At
3 percent, the deficit will be the lowest since the year through
March 2008, when the shortfall was 2.5 percent of GDP.  The panel, headed by Vijay Kelkar, recommended subsidy cuts
and faster sales of shares in state-owned companies, steps it
said would help limit the shortfall at 5.2 percent. The deficit
may widen to 6.1 percent if no action is taken, the panel said,
a level termed “unacceptable” by Chidambaram.  India’s goal is to narrow the budget gap from 5.8 percent
of GDP in the last financial year. In the March budget, it
originally set a target of 5.1 percent for 2012-2013. Slower
growth has hurt tax revenue while subsidies have stoked
spending, exacerbating the shortfall. Standard & Poor’s projects
the deficit will widen to about 6 percent of GDP this year.  The finance minister said he is confident that capital
inflows will fully finance India’s current-account deficit,
adding he is committed to reviving faster economic expansion.  Asia’s No.3 economy expanded 5.5 percent in the three
months through June from a year earlier, close to the 5.3
percent pace of the previous quarter that was a three-year low.  S&P and Fitch Ratings reduced the outlook on India’s credit
rating to negative from stable earlier in 2012, bringing the
nation a step closer to junk status on risks such as the fiscal
imbalance and a trade deficit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  