-- India’s 10-Year Bond Yield Near a Three-Month Low on Easing Bets
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-10-29T12:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/india-s-10-year-bond-yield-near-a-three-month-low-on-easing-bets.html
The yield on  India ’s 10-year bonds
held near a three-month low on speculation the central bank will
loosen monetary policy to help revive growth.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will lower  reserve  requirements
for banks from an eight-year low of 4.5 percent at a policy
review tomorrow, according to 23 of 33 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Ten predict no change. The RBI will cut the repurchase
 rate  from 8 percent, according to 14 of the analysts, while the
rest expect it to be unchanged. Since mid-September, Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  has reduced fuel subsidies and allowed
more foreign investment in industries including retailing.  “We expect the RBI to cut  interest rates , by way of a pat
on the back to the government for its various fiscal reforms,”
 Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG
in Singapore, wrote in a note today.  The yield on the benchmark 8.15 percent bonds due June 2022
held at 8.13 percent in Mumbai, matching the lowest level since
July 27 reached last week, according to the central bank’s
trading system. The market was closed on Oct. 26 for a holiday.  Quarterly expansion in Asia’s third-largest  economy 
averaged 5.4 percent in the first half of 2012, compared with
7.5 percent in the whole of 2011.  The monetary policy may have space in future to support
growth if price pressures ease and fiscal and trade deficits
narrow, even as caution is necessary for now to focus on
inflation, the nation’s central bank said.  “ Monetary policy  needs to be cautious in the interim,
focusing on inflation while using the available space to support
growth to the degree it can,” the Reserve Bank of India said in
a report today ahead of its interest-rate decision in Mumbai
tomorrow. If threats from inflation and the deficits recede,
that “could yield space down the line for monetary policy to
respond to growth concerns.”  The one-year interest-rate swap, derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.59 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  