-- Telefonica Germany Completes Europe’s Biggest IPO of 2012
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-10-30T08:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/investors-bet-on-gains-from-kpn-deal-as-telefonica-debuts.html
Investors betting on a high-yield
telecommunications stock in a market so far sheltered from
Europe’s debt crisis -- and a potential wireless network deal --
helped  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s German unit complete the largest initial
public offering in Europe this year.  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D)  raised 1.45 billion euros
($1.87 billion) in the IPO, pricing the shares at the top of a
narrowed range. The German unit priced 258.8 million shares at
5.60 euros each, compared with an original range of 5.25 euros
to 6.50 euros. The stock climbed as much as 2.9 percent to 5.76
euros on the Frankfurt exchange today.  Russian wireless carrier OAO Megafon postponed marketing
its IPO this month amid a global slowdown in the equity markets.
Telefonica, which has net debt of more than 58 billion euros, is
considering sharing its mobile phone network in Germany with
Royal KPN NV’s local E-Plus division to lower costs, Telefonica
Deutschland told investors on a call about the IPO last week.  “Telefonica Deutschland’s dividend yield is almost 8
percent, which is slightly above the rest of the industry in
 Europe ,” according to Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based
strategist at FGA/MG Valores. “That, combined with more
earnings growth potential compared to its peers,” may be the
primary reasons why Telefonica has successfully carried out the
IPO, he said.  Shares of Madrid-based Telefonica  dropped  1.3 percent to
10.07 euros yesterday. They have dropped 25 percent this year,
compared with a 10 percent decline in the benchmark IBEX 35
index. The Germany unit’s IPO is the biggest in that country
since engine-maker Tognum AG raised 1.8 billion euros in 2007.  Low Price  “Telefonica has sought to secure the transaction at a low
price in order to make it more attractive to investors, as it
really needs to raise the cash,” said Adrian Zunzunegui, a
Madrid-based analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux.  Telefonica’s deteriorating cash flow and lower earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization will
continue even after the IPO, Zunzunegui said. The company is
Europe’s most  indebted  phone operator.  “When people were looking at a potential coming together
of Telefonica Deutschland and E-Plus, there was some significant
analysis of potential network synergies,” Rachel Empey, chief
financial officer of Telefonica Deutschland, told investors on a
conference call last week. “Quite a lot of those synergies
might be available through network sharing.”  E-Plus  A hypothetical merger of Telefonica Deutschland and E-Plus
could generate synergies worth about 4 billion euros for the
companies, according to a document prepared by one of the banks
managing the IPO and obtained by Bloomberg News. KPN said last
year that such a deal may generate 3 billion euros of synergies.  Telefonica Deutschland vies with E-Plus for the position of
the third-largest wireless company in  Germany , where Vodafone
Group Plc and Deutsche Telekom AG are the leaders.  Moody’s Investors Service has given Telefonica a long-term
debt rating of Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade, with a
negative outlook. Standard & Poor’s said this month that it may
reduce Telefonica’s BBB rating, the equivalent of Moody’s,
citing the company’s exposure to Spain’s sovereign-debt risks.  “I just don’t see the equity story after the deal, unless
Telefonica achieves a network-sharing agreement with KPN,”
Peter Braendle, who helps manage about $55 billion at the
Zurich-based Swisscanto Asset Management, said in a phone
interview. Braendle said he hadn’t subscribed to any shares in
the IPO.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  managed the IPO of
Telefonica’s German unit, with help from  Bank of America Corp. ,
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 Mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ; 