-- This Election Is About the Court, Not the Economy
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-10-29T22:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/this-election-is-about-the-court-not-the-economy.html
One-issue voters have always seemed
like cranks to me. It’s natural enough to have priorities, but
who thinks one of them is more important than all the other
political issues combined?  This  U.S. presidential election , though, is different. A
reasonable person could vote on the basis of future U.S.  Supreme
Court  nominations alone -- because on almost everything else
that matters, the differences between the candidates are going
to be vanishingly small when put into practice.  Start with some obvious truths that no one is much
mentioning in the news media’s frenzied effort to generate
excitement. Because the election is going to be close, whoever
wins will have little or no mandate to act definitively. The
House and Senate will probably be split, meaning that either
 Barack Obama  or  Mitt Romney  will have to govern in the center.
Partisans on either side will tell you that the policy
differences are legion, which is true. It’s just that presidents
don’t get to implement the majority of their most important
domestic policies without Congress, and Congress is not going to
back either side in making radical changes.  Both candidates want to lower the deficit, but neither
controls the economic cycle, which will either generate millions
more jobs and higher tax revenues, or won’t.  On foreign policy, as the lackluster final debate revealed,
there is essentially no daylight between the candidates. It
won’t be in either president’s interests for the U.S. to be
dragged into a Middle Eastern war, or to take a soft line on
 China ’s monetary policy.  Special Auras  But wait, you say, surely the two men have radically
different personalities, and divergent approaches to government.
Their personalities differ, of course, and Obama may trust
government a shade more than Romney. But let’s be honest: These
are two highly pragmatic, highly intelligent, highly competitive,
very tall men.  Each has had a special aura around him at least
since his student days. They both went to elite private high
schools, fancy colleges and then graduate school at Harvard.  There is a reason that the word “pragmatist” has been
attached to each of them for many years. Obama supporters accuse
Romney of having no fixed beliefs, but of course pragmatism
embraces that stance as open-mindedness. Romney backers say
Obama is actually a leftist who thinks government can do a
better job of building wealth than private industry. But Obama
is no leftist -- just ask the leftists who are sorely
disappointed by his centrist presidency.  When it comes to Supreme Court appointees, though, the
differences really are going to be stark -- and they will last
for a generation. Somehow the campaigns have failed to remind us
that four justices are 74 or older, meaning they will be at
least 78 by the end of the term. Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  is
already 79, with Justices Antonin Scalia and Anthony Kennedy not
far behind at 76 and Justice  Stephen Breyer  at 74. One hopes of
course they all live long lives, but the notion that all four
will still be willing and able to serve the next four years is
preposterous. Several will retire and be replaced -- and even
one replacement could fundamentally change the configuration of
the court.  If Romney becomes president, Ginsburg will certainly do all
she can to remain in the saddle. But if she were to have to
retire for health reasons (she has been treated for  colon cancer 
and pancreatic cancer), the court would become ineluctably
conservative. The present 4-to-4 split with Kennedy as the swing
vote would change into a stable 5-to-3 conservative majority,
with Kennedy no longer important.  Conservative Majority  Under Romney, Scalia might retire to give a Republican
president the chance to replace him with someone young and
comparably conservative. That would consolidate the conservative
majority of Chief Justice  John Roberts , Justice  Samuel Alito  and
Justice  Clarence Thomas  (now 64) for as long as Thomas stayed
healthy.  Or consider the scenario where Obama is re-elected and
either Scalia or Kennedy is replaced by a relatively more
liberal justice. That would in turn create incentives for
Ginsburg and Breyer to retire, which would allow the possibility
of a five-justice liberal majority in which Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , now 58, would be the eldest.  The Senate can constrain the president’s pick in either
direction so that we do not get a radical justice on either side.
But just because we will not have a  Robert Bork  does not mean we
will get an  Anthony Kennedy . Roberts and Alito both got
substantial Democratic support when they were confirmed. No
president of either party can be denied a reasonably moderate
Supreme Court nominee who is not an ideologue.  In today’s world of detailed vetting, it is increasingly
unlikely that an apparent conservative could be nominated who
would either become a liberal over time or come to be seen as
one, as happened with David Souter. And in Supreme Court history,
liberal justices have come to be seen as conservative only when
the court itself moved far to the left (which is what happened
to Felix Frankfurter, who believed he had not moved at all).  The justices of the future will decide our nation’s course
on abortion, affirmative action, civil liberties and gay rights,
not to mention big-ticket policy items such as health care. Our
Founding Fathers never imagined such a role for the court, but
for better or worse, it is here to stay. Vote your conscience
this time around, but for heaven’s sake, vote on the Supreme
Court. It’s going to matter.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on using the WTO to curb  China’s
unfair trade  and on  abortion, rape and politics ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  how Hurricane Sandy affects  the presidential campaign;
 Edward Glaeser  on how  San Francisco beat Detroit  in the economic
race;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on whether  Romney is “going soft” on Iran ;
 Ramesh Ponnuru  on his hopes for a  Romney presidency ; A. Gary
Shilling on the  beneficiaries of low interest rates ; Richard
Vedder on those stifling the  online revolution in higher
education .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 