-- This October Surprise Could Hurt Obama
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-10-29T23:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/this-october-surprise-could-hurt-obama.html
Who would you rather weather a storm
with?  That’s what this presidential campaign has come down to,
and the choice is between the candidate with no responsibilities
and the one already in charge (although not yet in charge,
despite the hopes and beliefs of his most ardent supporters, of
the wind and rain). This election’s October surprise is a
surprising late-season hurricane.  For Republican nominee  Mitt Romney , the best strategy is to
first, do no harm. If he truly has momentum, as some  polls and
pundits  would have it, then mum’s the word. When he goes
unscripted, it’s never pretty. “ Corporations are people , my
friend”; “ I’m not concerned  about the very poor”; his  infamous
apathy  for “the 47 percent”: This is not a man practiced at
expressing common cause with the little guy.  So far this week, so good. Romney has been both grounded in
the details (bring those  campaign yard signs  inside; “in high
winds they can be dangerous and cause damage to homes and
property”) and full of lofty rhetoric (“I’m never prouder of
America than when I see how we pull together in a crisis,”  he
said  Sunday night). From afar -- wisely he has not donned the
cliched parka, lest it blow in the wind -- he says he’s getting
updates on the storm from Governor  Chris Christie  of New Jersey
and Governor  Bob McDonnell  of Virginia.  Keeping Quiet  At all costs, Romney needs to avoid putting himself at the
center of the disaster. That didn’t work out so well on Libya,
when he jumped ahead of the president with his  ill-considered
statement  after the consulate in Benghazi was attacked.  Romney has another reason to keep quiet: He  may not support 
the  Federal Emergency Management Agency . (As always with Romney,
it’s hard to know where he actually stands.) In a Republican
primary debate in June, Romney -- then in his severely
conservative phase -- said more responsibility for  disaster
relief  should fall to the states. “It is simply immoral,” he
said, for the federal government “to continue to rack up larger
and larger debts and pass them on to our kids.”  As governor of Massachusetts, Romney had no catastrophe to
compare to this. When floods ravaged the state in May 2006, many
mayors  complained  that he’d vetoed flood-prevention funds a few
years earlier. The Democratic mayor of one town said that Romney
only “showed up for the pictures” after the flood.  Which is why Romney as mere candidate may be better off
than Romney as actual officeholder. No public official, not even
the most powerful one on the planet, is more powerful than
Mother Nature. No matter what President  Barack Obama  does, Sandy
will result in more people dying and losing their homes, while
millions of others will be frustrated and angry. So much for
those early-voting returns, which Obama seems to be winning.  Natural disasters usually cause elected officials to lose
their jobs, not keep them. Michael Bilandic,  Richard J. Daley ’s
successor, was ousted as mayor of Chicago by a snowstorm.  George W. Bush ’s presidency never recovered from his slow reaction to
 Hurricane Katrina . Christie got it wrong when he decided  not to
interrupt  his 2010 Christmas holiday in Disney World for a storm
back in New Jersey. (He’s now getting a second chance to make a
first impression, and  making the most of it . He may not be able
to stop the rain, but he can go on TV and talk about it.)  So maybe Sandy gives Obama a chance to appear presidential.
Unlike Christie, he doesn’t need a second chance: No one has
ever looked more presidential  than this . And unlike Bush, Obama
didn’t hire a political hack as head of FEMA.  Obama has also had some experience traveling to the sites
of natural disasters and listening -- always more important than
talking -- to local officials. He saw what remained of Joplin,
Missouri, after tornadoes blew through in May 2011. He visited
the Gulf Coast several times just after the  oil spill  there in
2010.  Averting Mistakes  And he stopped himself (almost in midair) from making a
mistake this time. On Monday morning, instead of remaining in
Florida to keep a crucial campaign appearance with former
President  Bill Clinton , Obama returned to Washington. Did the
Big Dog call and say he could handle it alone, not to risk the
blowback? Or did Obama have some quiet time to rethink the
situation for himself? Did someone on his staff describe the
split screen that awaited him, with the raging storm on one side
and Obama deplaning Air Force One in sunny Orlando on the other?  Like everyone else, public officials can’t do anything
about the weather, and the impact of Sandy is far more than
political. But how our elected leaders respond to the weather --
in terms of words and actions -- does matter. Obama doesn’t have
Clinton’s minister-in-chief demeanor, which carried the country
through the  Oklahoma City bombing . And it wouldn’t be
presidential to adopt the tweeter-in-chief persona of Mayor  Cory Booker  of  Newark , New Jersey,  offering to shovel  constituents’
sidewalks after a snowstorm.  Still, Obama might try to channel a little of Booker’s man-
of-the-people energy with Clinton’s I-feel-your-rain warmth. He
could come out on the other side of the storm better than he
went in if he drops the cool. He used up his lifetime supply of
that in Denver.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on using the WTO to curb  China’s
unfair trade  and on  abortion, rape and politics ;  Noah Feldman  on
the  next U.S. president’s Supreme Court picks ;  Edward Glaeser  on
how  San Francisco beat Detroit  in the economic race;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on whether  Romney is “going soft” on Iran ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on his hopes for a  Romney presidency ; A. Gary Shilling
on the  beneficiaries of low interest rates ; Richard Vedder on
those stifling the  online revolution in higher education .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 