-- Italy’s Banks Struggle on Cost Goals After Pension Age Raised
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-10-29T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/italy-s-banks-struggle-on-cost-goals-after-pension-age-raised.html
Italian banks seeking to trim costs
as profitability declines are struggling to meet job-reduction
targets as unions oppose firings and pension changes curb
voluntary early retirements.  Banks’ plans to trim more than 11,000 posts by 2015, half
by the end of 2013, are being reexamined after  Italy  raised the
pension age in January to 67, stemming early retirement programs
typically used to cut staff. Most Italian banks resumed talks
with unions in September to seek an agreement on job reductions.  “The pension-age hike knocked out agreements between banks
and unions, turning into higher costs and slower exits and
turnover,” said Nicola Trivelli, chief executive officer at
Sella Gestioni Sgr in Milan, which manages about 2.7 billion
euros ($3.5 billion). “Some lenders are seeking alternative
ways to cut costs, such as selling branches and outsourcing
businesses, though such solutions face the opposition of
unions.”  Italian banks are trying to trim costs and build capital as
the country’s third recession in a decade and higher funding
costs related to the sovereign-debt crisis curb profit.  The
profitability  of the country’s five largest lenders dropped by
about a third in the first half, according to a  Bank of Italy 
report published Oct. 16.  Austerity  Italy has approved austerity measures to fight the debt
crisis since  Mario Monti  became prime minister in November,
including a pension overhaul and tax increases that pushed the
nation deeper into a recession. Monti’s government last month
said gross domestic product will probably shrink 2.4 percent
this year, twice the government’s forecast in April. The slump
is forecast to extend through 2013, when GDP may shrink by 0.2
percent, according to the government.  UniCredit SpA and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s biggest
banks, reached accords with unions between September and October
committing them not to fire employees, Massimo Masi, head of the
UILCA union, said in an interview. UniCredit will have 800
departures from retirement by 2015, according to Masi, compared
with a total of about 1,800 staff reductions planned for the end
of next year. A UniCredit official confirmed the terms of the
accord.  “Even if we consider the normal turnover of employees,
this goal seems hard to reach on time without firings,” said
Giuseppe Belfiori, head of research at FT support, an advisory
firm in Milan. “UniCredit should probably act more intensively
on administrative expenses to compensate for lower job cuts.”  ‘Growing Difficulties’  UniCredit CEO Federico Ghizzoni said last week he is
confident the company will meet its target of 3,500 job
reductions by 2013, half of which have already been made.  “Banks are facing growing difficulties in cutting their
cost base with the aim of recovering profitability,” said
Fabrizio Bernardi, a Milan-based analyst at Fidentiis Equities.  Intesa’s former CEO,  Corrado Passera , said last year the
firm planned 3,000 job cuts by 2013 on a voluntary basis, a
target that was raised to 5,000 as more workers than planned
took up the offer. The program was halted earlier this year
after the pension reform made 3,500 of them no longer eligible.
The bank had to reinstate 561 of the employees that had accepted
the offer.  “The old business plan has been pronounced dead,” Enrico Cucchiani, who replaced Passera at the top job in November, said
on a conference call in August. “You should continue to expect
a committed, determined, focused attitude in cost cutting,” he
said, without giving further details.  Union Talks  Intesa will start new talks with unions today to discuss
job implications from the approved merger of its BIIS unit into
the parent company, which may lead to a staff reduction, Masi
said.  UniCredit, Intesa and other lenders that announced job-
cutting plans before the pension reform relied on employees over
55 accepting early retirement to meet their goals. Banks were
able to offer early retirement as the so-called solidarity fund
let the workers get a salary until they reached the age they
could receive pensions. The fund can provide money for as long
as five years. Following the increase in the pensionable age to
67 from a range of 60 to 65, fewer people are eligible for the
program.  Staff costs of Italian banks are higher than European
peers, according to the country’s  banking association, known as
ABI . The average annual cost per banking employee is 77,000
euros in Italy, compared with the 60,000-euro-average in the
European Union, according to an ABI internal report discussed
with unions last week. The ABI also estimates that there are
35,000 excess workers in the Italian banking industry, according
to banking unions.  Banks ‘Overstaffed’  “There is no question that the Italian banking system, if
you look at all the macro figures, is overstaffed and over-
branched, relative to the rest of  Europe ,” Intesa’s Cucchiani
told analysts on Aug. 3.  Twenty-two of the world’s 50 biggest lenders have announced
plans to eliminate at least 1,000 positions each since the start
of August 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More
than 22,500 cuts were disclosed this year.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , which plans to reduce
its workforce by 15 percent, or 4,600 posts, by 2015, has the
most aggressive job-cutting program among Italy’s banks. The
company said in September it would go ahead with the plan even
as it faces opposition from unions.  Monte Paschi, the only Italian bank still short of the
European Banking Authority’s capital requirements, is seeking
state aid for a second time. Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola is seeking to outsource 2,300 back-office positions and
cut 1,200 employees as the company sells assets.  Lenders such as Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA and Banca
Popolare di Milano Scarl also are struggling with unions to
implement their cuts. While Popolare di Milano’s talks on the
bank’s planned 700 cuts are continuing, UBI interrupted
negotiations on Oct. 17 without reaching an agreement on about
1,600 reductions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  