-- Italy Sells $10 Billion of Bills as Borrowing Costs Fall
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-10-29T11:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/italy-sells-8-billion-euros-of-bills-as-rates-drop-at-auction.html
Italian borrowing costs dropped at
an auction of 8 billion euros ($10.3 billion) of six-month
Treasury bills as investors view the country as a safer bet than
 Spain  even amid rising political tension.  The Treasury in  Rome  sold the 181-day bills at 1.347
percent, the lowest since March 28 and down from 1.503 percent
at the last auction on Sept. 26. Investors bid for 1.52 times
the amount of bills offered today, up from 1.39 times last
month.  Italy  returns to the market tomorrow with the sale of as
much as 7 billion of five and 10-year bonds.  Today’s auction comes as investors await the outcome of a
regional vote in Sicily that could signal the direction of
national elections that may come sooner than expected. Former
premier  Silvio Berlusconi , whose People of Liberty Party is the
biggest in the national parliament, threatened on Oct. 27 to
withdraw support for Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
government, saying its policies are deepening the country’s
recession.  “While tomorrow’s auction of long-dated paper is a more
important test of sentiment, heightened political risk in Italy
isn’t putting upward pressure on yields,” Nicholas Spiro of
Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London  said by e-mail. “The
Treasury got all its debt out the door today at an even lower
yield than at a similar sale last month. Berlusconi’s posturing
is no competition for the Draghi effect.”  Monti-Rajoy  Monti is meeting with his Spanish counterpart  Mariano Rajoy 
in Madrid today. Three months after  European Central Bank ’s
President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do “whatever it takes” to
safeguard the euro, a move followed in September by the
announcement of a bond-buying program for countries in financial
distress, Spain and Italy have yet to decide whether to seek
help. The meeting comes less than a week after Monti signaled
that he would like Spain to jump first in requesting external
aid.  Rajoy, who has sought as much as 100 billion euros of EU
aid to shore up its lenders, is ignoring pressure to seek more
aid as the country’s recession deepens. A Spanish bailout would
probably prompt a relief rally and bring down Italy’s borrowing
costs.  Italy has managed to decouple itself from Spain because
it’s running a primary surplus, its banks are relatively healthy
and its deficit will be below the EU’s limit of 3 percent of
gross domestic product this year, less than half the amount
projected for  Madrid . Still, Spain’s hesitation to seek aid,
coupled with concerns about the European economic outlook, risks
renewed pressure on Italy, which is mired in its fourth
recession since 2001 and burdened by Europe’s second biggest
debt.  Italy’s 10-year yield rose 7 basis points to 4.97 percent
at 11:54 a.m. in Rome, boosting the difference with comparable-
maturity German debt to 347 basis points.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  