-- Jamie Oliver Protegee Returns to Her U.K. Roots
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-10-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/jamie-oliver-protegee-returns-to-her-u-k-roots.html
April Bloomfield was working at the
River Cafe when the TV chef  Jamie Oliver  recommended her to  New
York  restaurateur Ken Friedman in 2003.  Born in Birmingham,  England , Bloomfield moved to the U.S.,
where she opened the Spotted Pig, the Breslin and the John Dory,
with Friedman, gaining kudos and a degree of celebrity for her
gutsy cooking. Her focus is on maximum flavor with minimum fuss.  Bloomfield, 38, is back in London. She’s marking the U.K.
publication of her book “ A Girl and Her Pig ,” featuring
recipes from her New York restaurants, with a residence at St.
John Chinatown, where she will be cooking tomorrow and Oct. 31.
(St. John owner Fergus Henderson cooks with Bloomfield each year
in New York.)  How did she feel about returning to the kitchen in the
U.K.?  “I’m sure I’m going to be nervous, which is always a good
thing,” Bloomfield said over breakfast at Quo Vadis, in Soho.
“But it’s going to be fun sharing meals with some old
friends.”  Friedman, who formerly worked in the  music industry  and is
friends with stars such as Bono and Jay-Z, will be there. Oliver
also has a booking, along with several London chefs, such as
Jeremy Lee of Quo Vadis, who said he has two copies of the book.  The two-day residency (two lunches and two dinners) sold
out in three hours. Bloomfield shook her head when told of this.  “It was reassuring to know that it sold out so fast,” she
said. “I thought no one might come.” Her menu will feature
pig’s-ear salad with bitter greens and lemon caper dressing; and
Spotted Pig burger with Roquefort and shoestring fries.  Michelin Star  This sort of cooking isn’t for everyone. It’s gastropub
rather than fine dining. You might be forgiven for wondering
what all the fuss was about after a long wait for a table at the
Spotted Pig. That venue’s Michelin star denotes a very good
restaurant in its category, not a sublime dining experience.  Bloomfield started at restaurants such as Kensington Place
and Bibendum. It was under the guidance of Ruth Rogers and Rose Gray at the River Cafe that she learned the simplicity of food.
The book is dedicated to Gray, who died in 2010.  Bloomfield is known for her no-nonsense approach. A char-
grilled lamb burger with feta, cumin mayo and thrice-cooked
chips is among her best-known dishes. The U.S. cover for her
book features a photo of her with a piglet over her shoulder.  She is also capable of subtlety: Her salads and vegetable
dishes show a lightness of touch and the same originality as
Bloomfield’s meatier creations.  Female Chefs  Did she think there was a difference of approach between
male and female chefs?  “Women tend to cook from their souls more, whereas men are
sometimes more analytical and cerebral,” she said. “But there
are guys like Mario (Batali), who really cooks from his soul.”  What does Bloomfield make of the  London  restaurant scene
and would she consider opening a restaurant in the city?  “I would love to come back and open somewhere: Ken and I
talk about it all the time,” she said. “I don’t know if it
would be like the Pig. We’re just not sure. I visit London all
the time. It’s my second home. London is going through a boom
now, with lots of new places opening.  “There has been a lot of influence from New York. Soho has
a  West Village  feel, with an undercurrent of grittiness. I like
that.”  “A Girl and Her Pig” is published by  Ecco Press  in the
U.S. priced $30. It will be published by  Canongate  in the U.K.
on Nov. 1 priced at 14.99 pounds. To buy the book in  North
America , click  here .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Warwick Thompson  on theater,  John
Mariani  on wine and  Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 