-- Japan Jobless Rate Holds at 4.2% as BOJ Meets to Decide Easing
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-10-29T23:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/japan-jobless-rate-holds-at-4-2-as-boj-meets-to-decide-easing.html
Japan’s jobless rate stayed the same
in September as the  Bank of Japan (8301)  meets to decide whether to add
to stimulus for the second time in two months.  The  unemployment rate  was 4.2 percent, the statistics
bureau said today in Tokyo. That was the same as the previous
month and matched the median forecast in a survey of 29
economists by  Bloomberg News . A separate report showed 81 jobs
available for every 100 applicants.  The world’s third-largest economy is at risk of contraction
in the second half of the year, as slowing global growth and a
dispute with China weaken exports and the end of car subsidies
saps domestic demand. The government last week announced 750
billion yen ($9.4 billion) of stimulus to shore up growth and
economists expect the BOJ to take additional monetary easing
steps at its meeting today.  Exports fell 10.3 percent in September, the most since the
aftermath of last year’s earthquake, figures from the  Finance
Ministry  showed last week. Retail sales rose less than forecast
in the same month as the expiry of government subsidies for car
purchases hit demand, a report showed yesterday.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  yesterday cut its full year profit forecast
by 20 percent as Chinese consumers shunned Japanese brands amid
a territorial dispute.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest camera
maker, last week cut its full-year profit forecast.  Most economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the
central bank to add 10 trillion yen to its asset-purchase fund
at today’s meeting. At its last gathering that ended Oct. 5, the
bank held off from more easing after expanding the fund in
September.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  forecast two quarters of
contraction in the Japanese economy through year-end.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  