-- Japan’s Retail Sales Rise Less Than Expected in September
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-10-29T03:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/japan-s-retail-sales-rise-less-than-expected-in-september.html
Japan ’s retail sales rose less than
forecast in September as the expiry of government subsidies for
car purchases sapped consumer demand.  Retail sales  rose 0.4 percent from a year earlier, the
Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today, after a revised 1.7 percent
rise in August. The  median estimate  of 15 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  was for a 1 percent increase. Sales dropped 3.6
percent from August, the largest monthly fall since March 2011.  The report adds to signs that the world’s third-largest
economy is at risk of contraction in the second half of the
year, as slowing global demand and a dispute with  China  hurt
exports and manufacturers like  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Canon Inc. (7751) 
expect weaker earnings. The government last week announced 750
billion yen ($9.4 billion) of stimulus to shore up growth.  “There are no positive signs in Japan’s economy,” as
domestic demand slumps and external demand remains weak, said
 Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo. “The
economy will probably contract for two consecutive quarters
through the end of the year.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was 0.2 percent lower at 12:39
p.m. in Tokyo. The yen was trading at 79.72 against the dollar
after rising 0.8 percent to 79.65 on Oct. 26, the largest
advance since Aug. 22.  Auto Sales  Domestic sales of motor vehicles in September fell 13.9
percent from the previous month, the data showed, the biggest
drop since March last year as government subsidies for purchases
of fuel-efficient cars ended. The government stopped accepting
applications for the subsidies on Sept. 21.  Honda cut its full year profit forecast by 20 percent to
375 billion yen, as Chinese consumers shunned Japanese brands
amid a territorial dispute. In September, sales in China by
Honda fell 40 percent and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s plunged 49
percent.  Canon, the world’s largest camera maker, last week cut its
full-year profit forecast on sluggish global demand, disrupted
production in China and a stronger yen.  Japan’s Economy Minister  Seiji Maehara  said Oct. 26 that
the government’s stimulus package announced last week would
boost gross domestic product by 0.1 percentage point, without
specifying over what period. The government hasn’t decided how
to fund planned further stimulus steps to be drawn up next
month, Maehara said, adding that it’s too early to say how big
those extra measures will be.  BOJ Pressure  Maehara said last week that he wants to attend tomorrow’s
 Bank of Japan (8301)  policy meeting, at which the bank will decide
whether to add monetary stimulus. All but one of 27 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the central bank to add to
easing at the meeting.  Japan’s government this month cut its economic assessment
for a third straight month, the longest streak since the 2009
global recession, as exports fell for a fourth month in
September and machinery orders fell more than expected in
August. Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc. are among those who
expect the economy to contract in the third and fourth quarters
of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  