-- Japan Exchange Aims to Combine Equities Systems by July
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-10-29T06:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/japan-exchange-aims-to-combine-equities-systems-by-july.html
Japan  Exchange Group, the company to
be formed by the merger of the country’s two largest bourses,
aims to unify its trading systems for cash equities by July,
Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. said in a  statement  today.  The new bourse, which plans to list on Jan. 4 in Tokyo,
will adopt the Arrowhead trading system currently used by the
TSE, according to the statement.  Osaka  Securities Exchange Co.’s
J-Gate platform will be used for derivatives trading, which the
bourses are aiming to combine by the end of March 2014, it said.  Tokyo and Osaka are merging as part of a government push to
revive Japan’s financial markets amid regional competition. The
TSE was reprimanded in August by the regulator after computer
malfunctions interrupted trading twice this year. Osaka’s J-Gate
hasn’t had a major error since it began operations, according to
the OSE.  “Our task is to bring the bourses up to global
standards,” TSE Chief Executive Officer  Atsushi Saito  told
reporters in Tokyo. “Japan’s exchanges haven’t been able to
accommodate the changing needs of their clients.”  Shares of OSE fell 1.9 percent to 304,500 yen today in
Osaka after reporting net income fell 35 percent from a year
earlier in the six months through September. The Nikkei 225
Stock Average swung between gains and losses.  January 4  The Japan Exchange aims to list Jan. 4 on the TSE first
first section and on the Jasdaq Exchange, Saito said. Privately
held Tokyo Stock Exchange reported profit gained 44 percent in
the first half of the fiscal year.  About 7 billion yen ($88 million) a year could be saved
through integrating information technology systems, the  Tokyo 
and Osaka bourses said in their merger document last November.
As of June 30. Tokyo was the world’s biggest equity market by
value outside the U.S., according to World Federation of
Exchanges. Osaka is the only venue in the country where futures
on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average change hands.  The TSE adopted the faster Arrowhead platform developed by
Fujitsu Ltd. in January 2010 amid growing competition from
alternative trading venues such as SBI Japannext, Chi-X Japan
Ltd. Both major errors in Tokyo this year have been blamed on
the failure of backup systems.  Exchanges and their trading systems globally are under
scrutiny amid a series of malfunctions. U.S.-based Knight
Capital Group Inc. was taken to the brink of bankruptcy after a
system error caused a $440 million trading loss. The initial
public offering of Facebook Inc. on the Nasdaq Stock Market in
May was marred by delays and malfunctions, while Bats Global
Markets Inc. withdrew its own IPO in March after it failed to
get shares to trade properly on its own exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  