-- JPMorgan Math Nonsense to MetLife in CPI Spat: Argentina Credit
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-10-29T15:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/jpmorgan-math-nonsense-to-metlife-in-cpi-spat-argentina-credit.html
The alleged data rigging by
 Argentina  that cost inflation-linked bondholders $7 billion and
earned the nation a rebuke from the  International Monetary Fund 
is now turning MetLife Inc. against its banker.  The local unit of the largest U.S. life insurer is suing
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to recoup $107 million in losses on notes
securitized by the lender, claiming the biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets used government inflation data that is estimated to be
less than half the actual rate to value the debt. The underlying
bonds lost 9.5 percent in dollars this year, the biggest drop
among inflation-linked debt in  Latin America , after plunging 25
percent in 2011, according to Barclays Plc. Economists estimate
inflation at 24 percent, versus the official rate of 9 percent.  The lawsuit, filed in  London , is emblematic of the mistrust
Argentina has sowed since it fired statisticians in 2007 and
began reporting consumer prices that economists say are
inaccurate. That’s shut the nation out of its own  bond market 
and caused trading in notes tied to consumer prices to dry up.
Unable to sell debt overseas since its record default in 2001,
Argentina has also imposed currency controls and seized oil
producer YPF SA in the past year as it faces borrowing costs
that are twice the average in  emerging markets .  Inflation-linked bonds have “fallen off the map,”
Leonardo Chialva, a partner at Delphos Investment in  Buenos
Aires , said in a telephone interview. “They barely trade among
a reduced, highly speculative group of investors who are not
looking at the fundamentals because they depend on the highly
subjective and arbitrary component that is official inflation.”  ‘Good Faith’  Spokesmen for JPMorgan and MetLife declined to comment
about ongoing litigation. Officials at Argentina’s Economy
Ministry didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Metropolitan Life Seguros de Retiro SA alleges that by
using the government’s data, JPMorgan paid less interest on
securities that were created by the bank and tied to the
performance of underlying Argentine bonds, according to court
documents filed in September and made available last week.
JPMorgan put the redemption value of the notes at $177 million,
a figure based on official inflation, while MetLife said their
value should have been $284 million.  The Argentine unit of the New York-based insurer says a
clause in the bond contract stipulates that JPMorgan was
required to determine consumer prices “in good faith and in a
commercially reasonable manner based in available market
information,” in the event the country’s official data was
deemed unreliable. Instead, New York-based JPMorgan used
official inflation that one of its analysts deemed “grossly
distorted,” MetLife said.  U.S. Ruling  Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has said
since taking office in December 2007 that her government’s data
is accurate.  In a separate case, Argentina lost a bid to reverse U.S.
court rulings on Oct. 26 that may help creditors including
billionaire  Paul Singer ’s hedge fund Elliott Management Corp.
collect $1.4 billion on defaulted debt, sparking the biggest
decline in the country’s bonds in four months.  The government’s dollar-denominated notes due in 2015 fell
4.98 cents to 84.55 cents on the dollar, pushing yields to an
almost three-month high 13.82 percent, after the U.S. Appeals
Court in  New York  ruled that Argentina can’t discriminate
against holders of the defaulted bonds in favor of those that
own the securities it restructured following the default.  New York-based Elliot Management this month won a court
order in  Ghana  to seize an Argentine navy frigate when it docked
in the West African nation on a training mission.  ‘Captive Buyers’  The nation’s foreign-exchange restrictions, which Fernandez
imposed after her re-election in October 2011, have also
undermined trading in inflation-linked bonds, according to
Bulltick  Capital Markets .  In the unregulated market, which traders use to acquire
dollars by buying assets locally in pesos and selling them
abroad in U.S. currency, the peso has weakened 27 percent this
year to 6.5252 pesos per dollar.  “Basically, everybody bailed on that trade,” Alberto Bernal, head of fixed-income research at Bulltick, said in a
telephone interview. “Local trading is mostly arbitrage by
captive buyers at this point.”  Argentina’s credit-rating outlook last month was revised to
negative from stable by Moody’s Investors Service, which said
misreporting inflation data has resulted in the underpayment of
holders of inflation-linked bonds.  Moody’s Downgrades  Combined with the $8.9 billion still owed to the  Paris Club 
of creditor nations, the underpayment demonstrates a lack of
willingness to pay back creditors, according to Moody’s. The
country is rated B3, six levels below investment grade.  Moody’s lowered the foreign debt ratings of three Argentine
banks from B2 to B3 on Oct. 26, citing the risk that debtors
will be unable to access foreign currency.  South America ’s second-biggest economy is on track to be
the first country censured by the IMF for not sharing accurate
inflation data. The IMF’s board of directors gave Argentina
until Dec. 17 to respond to its concerns. After that, the board
can issue a declaration of censure.  Enrique Alvarez , the New York-based head of Latin America
fixed-income research at IdeaGlobal, says the threat of a
downgrade and censure by IMF won’t compel the Argentine
government to change its inflation data.  “Argentina is not going to fully budge,” he said in a
telephone interview. “You see that in their actions. I don’t
believe that they’ll make an immediate U-turn and start
reporting something that would cost them.”  ‘Blow Up’  Last year, Fernandez fined economists for reporting
independent inflation estimates, prompting opposition lawmakers
to compile the reports and publish them anonymously.  In September, she questioned whether U.S. inflation was
close to 2 percent and told a Georgetown University student in a
televised conference that “if inflation in Argentina was 25
percent, the country would blow up.”  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold
Argentine government dollar bonds instead of Treasuries swelled
six basis points to 993 at 12:32 p.m. in Buenos Aires, according
to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps surged 246 basis points
to 1,533, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
cash if a government or company fails to comply with debt
agreements.  The peso was little changed at 4.7537 per dollar.  Edwin Gutierrez , who helps manage $9 billion of emerging-
market debt at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc and owned Argentine
inflation-linked bonds in the past, says MetLife may be locked
in a legal battle with JPMorgan for years.  “This will be a long, drawn-out battle,” Gutierrez said
in a telephone interview from London. “Good luck with that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  