-- Juncker Calls Extra Euro Talks as Greece Showdown Looms
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-10-30T10:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/juncker-calls-extra-finance-chief-talks-as-greece-showdown-looms.html
Euro-area finance chiefs may talk
three times in the next two weeks as the 17-nation bloc grapples
over ways to fill  Greece ’s financing gap and ease investor
concerns that it might have to exit from the euro.  “It’s a possibility” that finance ministers will meet on
Nov. 8, Guy Schuller, a spokesman for the Luxembourg government
of Jean-Claude Juncker, who chairs euro finance meetings, said
in a phone interview today. “But this won’t be certain until
Nov. 6 at the earliest, because we don’t yet know when the
troika report on Greece will be finalized.” That gathering
would be in addition to a Greece-related conference call at
12:30 p.m. tomorrow and a Nov. 12 meeting scheduled in Brussels.  International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde is due
to meet with German Chancellor Angela Merkel in Berlin today as
officials try to work out a plan that will cut Greek debt to 120
percent of gross domestic product by 2020 from about 144 percent
now amid the worst recession in a generation. Failure to hit the
debt target could see the IMF withdraw aid, sparking another
wave of speculation about Greece’s future in the 17-nation euro.  “It’s yet another standoff between  Athens  and its
creditors,” Nicholas Spiro of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London  said in an e-mail. “Berlin may not want to cut Greece
loose, but neither is it prepared to fork out more money to keep
it inside the euro zone.”  European stocks and the euro gained today, with the single
currency rising 0.4 percent to $1.2955 as of 11:40 a.m. in
Berlin. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained 0.6 percent.  Crisis Center  European policy makers are preparing their opening gambits
on Greece as the so-called troika of the European Commission,
the European Central Bank and the IMF compiles its report
Greece’s finances. The report will address progress made by
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s government in meeting targets
that are a prerequisite for Greece’s next instalment of a 130
billion-euro ($168 billion) rescue.  Merkel’s government, as the biggest country contributor to
Greece’s two bailouts, signalled that it is willing to consider
an ECB proposal for a buyback of Greek debt. Finance Minister
Wolfgang Schaeuble, who cast doubt on the proposal earlier this
month, said in a weekend radio interview that a buyback “is
worth serious discussion.”  At the same time, German officials said Greece shouldn’t
expect other euro-area nations to renegotiate the loans they’ve
already given the country. A restructuring of Greek sovereign
debt held by its public sector partners “is out of the
question” for  Germany  and “not in Greece’s interests,”
Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, told reporters in
Berlin yesterday.  Troika Report  “There is no consensus right now,” said  Carsten Brzeski ,
a senior economist at ING Group in Brussels. “I still think
that some kind of debt forgiveness will happen in the future but
I don’t see it happening right now.”  German news magazine Der Spiegel reported in this week’s
edition that the troika proposes a debt restructuring for Greece
that would require public-sector lenders to take heavy losses.
Greece already carried out the biggest write-off of privately
held debt in history. An interim troika report was distributed
to the German government last week, Schaeuble said.  ‘Has to Stop’  Juncker said yesterday there won’t be any decisions taken
during the Oct. 31 conference call, and that decisions are
unlikely at the Nov. 8 meeting if it goes ahead. He tried to
quash speculation that Greece might be forced out of the euro
zone if its woes continue.  “The talk about an exit of Greece from the euro zone has
to stop,” he said separately in a speech yesterday.  Merkel, the key political player during the crisis, said in
August when Samaras visited Berlin that she was “deeply
convinced” his government would “do what it takes to solve the
problem in Greece.” She said her intention was to help Greece
reach “the light at the end of the tunnel.”  Merkel and Lagarde are due to brief reporters in Berlin at
about 6:30 p.m. together with the heads of the World Bank, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the World
Trade Organization and the International Labor Organization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  