-- Kansai Electric Mulls Increasing Tariffs on Increased Fuel Costs
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-10-29T09:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/kansai-electric-mulls-increasing-tariffs-on-increased-fuel-costs.html
Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) ,  Japan ’s
second-biggest power generator, said it is considering
increasing tariffs after posting a 117 billion yen ($1.5 billion)
loss in the first half.  Increasing electricity prices to maintain stable supplies
is “an agonizing choice”, the Osaka-based utility said today
in a statement. The company has incurred rising fuel costs for
thermal power generation to make up for the nuclear reactors it
idled after the Fukushima disaster of March 2011.  Kansai Electric plans to raise prices by more than 10
percent for households and by as much as 30 percent for
companies by September 2013, the Nikkei newspaper reported Oct.
21, without saying how it obtained the information. The loss in
the six months to Sept. 30 was the biggest posted by the utility
in the first half of a year,  Kansai Electric  spokesman Kazushige
Akita said.  Of Japan’s 50 nuclear reactors, all except two owned by
Kansai Electric remain offline after the Fukushima disaster
shattered public confidence in the safety of nuclear energy and
prompted weekly anti-nuclear protests. The nuclear shutdown
could mean Japan’s nine biggest utilities will have to pay about
6.8 trillion yen for fossil fuel replacements in the year ending
March 2013, nearly double the costs of two years earlier,
according to the government.  Momosuke Ozuku, general manager at the company’s accounting
and finance office, declined to comment on the details of the
rate increase at a news conference today.  Kansai Electric didn’t provide a full-year forecast, citing
uncertainty about the restart of idled reactors and the effect
of power-saving measures on revenue. The forecast “will be
disclosed as soon as it becomes available,” it said in its
statement.  Kansai Electric gained 3.5 percent to 621 yen at the close
of trading in  Tokyo , before it announced its loss and plan to
increase rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  