-- NBC Lands U.S. Media Rights for English Premier League Soccer
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/nbc-lands-u-s-media-rights-for-english-premier-league-soccer.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal
acquired exclusive U.S. media rights to English Premier League
soccer games starting next season.  The league, which features 20 teams including  Manchester
United (MANU) , Liverpool and Chelsea, has had its games televised in
the U.S. by the Fox Sports Media Group for almost 20 years.  NBC Sports Group said it reached a multiyear agreement with
the Premier League to broadcast games on NBC, NBC Sports Network
and NBCSports.com, with Telemundo and mun2 providing Spanish-
language coverage. Financial terms of the deal weren’t disclosed
in a news release. NBC will pay $250 million over the next three
years, the  Associated Press  said without saying where it got the
information.  “The Barclays Premier League is the preeminent soccer
league in the world and is on the cusp of exponential popularity
growth here in the U.S.,” NBC Sports Group Chairman Mark Lazarus said in the release. “NBCU will provide the broadest
programming and promotional commitment that the league has ever
experienced here in the United States.”  NBC gains exclusive English- and Spanish-language media
rights in the U.S. to all 380 of the league’s games each season,
which runs over a 41-week period from August to May.  NBC Universal  said additional platforms and networks will
occasionally be used to air matches, while NBC Sports Live Extra
will provide the live streaming platform across web, tablet and
mobile devices. In addition to live coverage, NBC Sports Group
will have pre- and post-match shows, as well as highlight and
weekly wrap-up programs.  The Premier League’s previous three-year deal with Fox,
which included some games televised on Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN,
was worth about $80 million, AP said.  NBC televised men’s and women’s soccer games at the 2012
London Olympics and also has rights to  Major League Soccer  and
the U.S. men’s and women’s national team matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  