-- Nedbank’s Income Rises 9.2% in Third Quarter, Bad Debts Fall
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-10-29T11:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/nedbank-s-income-rises-9-2-in-third-quarter-bad-debts-fall-1-.html
Nedbank Group Ltd., the South
African lender controlled by  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , said income rose in
the third quarter while bad debt levels fell.  Net interest income increased 9.2 percent to 14.52 billion
rand ($1.7 billion), the Johannesburg-based lender said today in
a trading update. Non-interest revenue gained 14 percent to 12.4
billion rand, while the bank reported a credit-loss ratio of
1.03 percent, compared with 1.13 percent a year earlier.  “The group is still on track to achieve its earnings
growth target in 2012, notwithstanding the more challenging
economic environment,”  Mike Brown , chief executive officer,
said in the statement. “Our balance sheet remains well
capitalized and liquid.”  Nedbank, South Africa’s fourth-largest lender by assets, is
boosting lending to win a bigger share of South Africa’s
consumer market from rivals such as  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  and
Barclays Plc’s  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  During the past year, the South
African economy has slowed and mining was hurt by labor action.  “It’s still business as usual with our mining clients,”
Brown said in an interview on Oct. 24.  The lender’s stated profit target is to achieve growth in
diluted earnings per share, excluding one-time items, at the
same rate as gross domestic product plus the  consumer price
index  in percent terms and then an additional 5 percent. South
Africa’s GDP was forecast at 2.5 percent by National Treasury
while the most recent CPI figure was 5.5 percent.  “Given the prevailing economic slowdown and uncertainty
combined with the effects of wage-related strike actions, the
group remains cautious on its outlook,”  Nedbank (NED)  said in the
statement.  Nedbank rose as much as 1.2 percent and was trading 0.4
percent higher at 181.88 rand as of 1:25 p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  