-- Nets-Knicks Ticket Price at Brooklyn NBA Opener Falls With Storm
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/nets-knicks-entry-price-for-brooklyn-nba-opener-falls-with-storm.html
Hurricane Sandy  is knocking down the
price of tickets to Brooklyn’s first regular-season National
Basketball Association game.  The least-expensive secondary market ticket for the Nov. 1
game between the Brooklyn Nets and  New York  Knicks at the new
Barclays Center in Brooklyn is $200, according to TiqIQ, an
aggregator of the ticket resale market. That’s 13 percent less
than the cheapest “get-in price” of $230 for tickets at the
end of last week.  The lower prices probably stem from falling demand amid
concerns about how the weather will affect people’s ability to
get to the game, said Chris Matcovich, a spokesman for TiqIQ.
Sandy, the largest tropical storm on record in the Atlantic, led
 New York City  to close the Hugh Carey Tunnel, formerly the
Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel connecting Brooklyn and  Manhattan , and
the  Holland Tunnel  connecting Manhattan and  New Jersey , the
Nets’ former home.  The arena is located next to the Atlantic Avenue-Barclays
Center stop that serves nine New York City subway lines and also
is adjacent to the Long Island Rail Road’s Atlantic Terminal.
All service on the subways and the LIRR has been suspended due
to the storm.  “Dependent on level of disruption of mass transit, I could
see these tickets decreasing significantly, 20-50 percent,”
Matcovich said. “If the bridges and tunnels are still closed or
there are downed trees and flooding, it’s going to be hard to
get to Brooklyn, if you have your own vehicle or are relying on
mass transportation.”  Price Rise  Tickets are being purchased for an average of $322 on
TiqIQ. The average list price of $892 is 31 percent higher than
it was on Oct. 1.  Matcovich said in a telephone interview that a number of
factors have heightened interest in the game, including the new
arena, the absence of professional sports in Brooklyn since
 Major League Baseball ’s Dodgers left for  Los Angeles  in 1958 and
the proximity of the Knicks, whose Madison Square Garden is a
six-mile drive from the Barclays Center.  The average price for a game between the Nets and Knicks in
April at the Prudential Center in  Newark , New Jersey, was $115,
with the least expensive going for $42, according to TiqIQ. For
some, selling their seats to the game in the 18,000-seat
Barclays Center is not an option, regardless of weather.  “There’s no way on God’s green earth I’d sell them for any
amount of money,” said Anthony Davenport, a Brooklyn resident.
Davenport, 36, who owns a credit-restoration company, moved to
 Brooklyn  in 2000 and said he’s been anticipating the Nets’
arrival since reading news reports in the year after he
relocated.  Ticket Dilemma  Davenport’s tickets have a face value of $200. He said his
biggest dilemma has been whether to take his 3 1/2-year-old son,
Jackson. Though the boy would probably forget the moment, he’d
be able to say he was at the first regular-season game in
Brooklyn Nets history.  “I took him to the Nets’ first preseason game,” Davenport
said in a telephone interview. “I’m taking his mommy instead.”  What the couple could face is as many Knicks’ fans as Nets’
fans.  Of those who have already bought tickets on the secondary
market, 62 percent are from Manhattan, home of the Knicks, and
21 percent from Brooklyn, according to TiqIQ.  The Knicks went 36-30 during the lockout-shortened 2011-12
season, falling in five games to the eventual-champion  Miami
Heat  in the first round of the playoffs. The Nets went 22-44,
finishing last in the  Atlantic Division , which also includes the
Knicks.  “I expect that there’s going to be a lot of Knicks fans
there,” Davenport said. “The only way that I’m prepping for
that is warming up on my trash talk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  