-- New York Taxis as Empty as Streets as Sandy Shuts City
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z ,   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   T o r i   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-10-29T21:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/new-york-taxis-as-empty-as-streets-as-sandy-shuts-city.html
Hurricane Sandy ’s impending arrival
in the most populous U.S. city has ended at least one perennial
 New York  frustration -- getting a taxi in the rain.  Over an hour and a half this morning, Nassir Pandhair,
who’s been driving a cab for 25 years, picked up just three
customers and earned about $25, half what he’d normally earn in
the period.  “It feels like a quiet Sunday morning,” Pandhair, 54 of
Valley Stream, New York, said as he cruised up Third Avenue on
 Manhattan ’s Upper East Side alongside a half-dozen yellow taxis
whose backseats were empty as his.  Residents bracing for the largest Atlantic storm ever
recorded woke up to a more muted version of the city that never
sleeps as public schools, the New York Stock Exchange and even
 Saks Inc. (SKS) ’s Saks Fifth Avenue and  Macy’s Inc. (M) ’s Bloomingdale’s
flagship outlets were shuttered.  The normally 24-hour-a-day mass transit system closed due
to weather for just the second time in its 108-year history.
Pedestrians were sparse and the usual Manhattan traffic jams
nonexistent as thousands of evacuees camped out in shelters
after evacuating low-lying areas where water had begun
collecting. Winds caused the partial collapse of a crane
attached to a luxury tower on West 57th Street in Manhattan.  Besting Irene  The major risk to the city’s 8 million people in five
boroughs will come at high tide after 8 p.m. local time, when a
 storm surge  is predicted to near a record 12 feet (3.7 meters),
enough to flood streets, basements and, potentially, subways and
car tunnels, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said at a press briefing at
the Office of Emergency Management in  Brooklyn .  A 3-meter storm surge at the Battery in Manhattan might
cause between $5.65 billion and $11.55 billion in damage,
according to Ning Lin, professor of civil and environmental
Engineering at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey . She said any
wind and rain damage aren’t included in the estimate.  Even before the tidal surge,  New Yorkers  were seeing
flooding comparable to the worst of  Hurricane Irene  last year,
with water covering the esplanade at Battery Park City along the
 Hudson River  and the FDR Drive on Manhattan’s East Side,
Bloomberg said.  “The greatest danger posed by Sandy is the coastal storm
surge it will produce,” said Bloomberg, founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP. “It may be a good
time to just stay hunkered into your home and have a sandwich
out of the fridge and sit back and watch television.”  Powerless Breakfast  At the  Loews (L)  Regency Hotel on Park Avenue, where Wall
Streeters, politicians and media moguls greet the day over eggs
and coffee, “it wasn’t much of a power breakfast today,” said
Leigh Wynn, restaurant manager. By 10 a.m., the dining room’s
skeleton work crew had served 30 customers, mostly hotel guests,
compared with its typical 170, she said.  As Manhattanites disappeared from the streets, residents
and businesspeople in Coney Island prepared for the worst as
police cleared the boardwalk and beach. Half of the area could
be under water after the tide comes in, said Domenic Recchia, a
 New York City  council member who’d been surveying the storm from
the boardwalk.  Frank Sciortino, co-owner of Knapp Street Pizza in Coney
Island, said his gas-powered ovens will keep cranking out pies
until 11 p.m. Sciortino said he didn’t take precautions against
the storm, calling his preparation for Irene a ”waste of
time.”  Storm Skeptic  “People have to eat,” said Sciortino, 29, whose family
has owned the space since 1994. “We don’t think it’s going to
be that bad of a storm. I don’t trust the weatherman. If it
comes, it comes.”  Back in Manhattan, the storm began to cut residents off
from much of the outside world  Expected flooding prompted New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
to order the closing of the Tappan Zee Bridge north of New York
City as well as crossings in the city, including the Holland
Tunnel and George Washington and Verrazano-Narrows bridges to
New Jersey, the Hugh L. Carey Tunnel to Brooklyn -- also known
as the Brooklyn-Battery -- and the Throgs Neck, Bronx-Whitestone
and Henry Hudson spans.  Cuomo also doubled, to more than 2,000, the number of
National Guard troops to help deal with a storm surge already
about 9.5 feet high, the peak water levels seen when Irene
struck in August 2011, he said.  Lights Out  As of 4 p.m., about 45,000 people were without  power 
throughout the city’s five boroughs. About 6,500 in lower
Manhattan below  Wall Street  will likely lose power this evening
to protect the system, said Alfonso Quiroz, a spokesman for
 Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , which supplies New York City and parts
of Westchester County with electric power.  Business at Ray Bari Pizza in midtown Manhattan was
bustling. Alejandro Vazquez, 27, had already delivered, on bike
and foot, 20 pizzas by lunchtime to hungry urbanites holed up in
their apartments.  “It’s very busy today,” Vazquez said while zipping up his
windbreaker. “Nobody wants to go outside so everybody stays at
home and orders pizza and pasta.”  It’s too early to estimate how much the storm will cost the
city in worker overtime, said Chris Miller, press secretary for
the municipality’s Office of Emergency Management.  While Bloomberg must close a $635 million midyear deficit
in his $68.5 billion budget, created when a judge barred the
city from selling 2,000 taxi medallions, the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency  will soften the financial impact of repairing
damaged infrastructure and personal property, U.S. Senator
 Charles Schumer  said.  Keeping Watch  Repairs were not the immediate concern of Ricky Coronado,
however, as he sat on the steps of his mother’s house in the
Rockaways, a Queens beachfront neighborhood.  As water lapped at the tops of fire hydrants a few blocks
away, Coronado, 32, said he was concerned about people seeking
shelter breaking into abandoned houses.  “It’s worse than last year,” he said. “I don’t want to
leave the house alone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  