-- New York Times Reaches Tentative Deal for New Contract
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-10-29T04:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/new-york-times-reaches-tentative-deal-for-new-contract.html
The  New York Times Co. (NYT)  and the union
representing employees at its flagship newspaper have reached a
tentative agreement after more than 18 months of negotiations.  The Newspaper Guild of New York, which represents the
workers, said the accord was struck late yesterday with the help
of mediator Martin Scheinman. The agreement preserves the
workers’ pensions, protects medical benefits and boosts
compensation, Guild President Bill O’Meara said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The Guild Negotiating Committee has voted to support the
settlement,” O’Meara said. “We will provide more information
in coming days, and a ratification meeting will be scheduled in
the near future.”  New York Times Executive Editor Jill Abramson said the two
sides reached an agreement “in concept” on a new five-year
contract, the newspaper  reported  on its website. The deal hasn’t
yet been put down in writing, and details won’t be coming soon,
the paper reported. Robert Christie, a spokesman for the Times,
said there would be no further comment on the deal.  An agreement with the union, which represents newsroom
workers and other employees, would remove one of the challenges
facing incoming Chief Executive Officer Mark Thompson. The
former British Broadcasting Corp. executive, who is scheduled to
take charge on Nov. 12, will have to cope with a shaky
advertising market and lingering questions about a sex scandal
at his former company.  Ad Slump  The union has been negotiating with the company against the
backdrop of a declining newspaper industry. Weaker-than-expected
advertising revenue led to a surprise third-quarter loss at New
York Times Co. last week, and executives warned to expect more
of the same this quarter.  The company’s print-ad sales for the period dropped 11
percent, and total ad revenue declined 8.9 percent. The loss
from continuing operations was 1 cent a share, excluding
severance and other costs. Analysts had estimated a profit of 8
cents on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
stock tumbled 22 percent after the results were released on Oct.
25, the biggest one-day drop in at least three decades.  Scheinman, who was appointed mediator on Oct. 10, has been
working with the two sides to expedite an agreement. The
defined-benefit pension -- prized by employees for predictable
payments at a time when many workers have shifted to more
volatile 401(k) plans -- has loomed as one of the most
contentious issues.  Savile Scandal  Thompson’s arrival at the Times has been clouded by
questions about how the  BBC  handled a story about one of its
former stars. Last December, reporters for the BBC show
“Newsnight” prepared a broadcast featuring interviews with
women saying they had been sexually abused as children by Jimmy Savile, a popular BBC TV host who died in 2011.  Top editors at the BBC knew of the pending report,
including BBC News Director Helen Boaden, according to people
familiar with the matter. Boaden reported to Thompson, who has
said he knew nothing of the Savile report and had no involvement
in its cancellation.  “Mark has provided a detailed account of that matter and I
am satisfied that he played no role in the cancellation of the
segment,” Times Co. Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr. said last
week on a conference call.  Shares of the New York-based company declined 1.4 percent
to $8.19 on Oct. 26, the most recent trading day. The stock has
climbed 6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  