-- Noda Urges Bond Bill Stalemate End With Majority at Risk
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-10-29T05:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/noda-urges-bond-bill-stalemate-end-with-majority-at-risk.html
Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda urged the opposition to end a stalemate over funding this
year’s budget as his parliamentary majority narrowed after two
lawmakers left the ruling party.  “Endless energy continues to be expended on fighting for
power by exploiting an issue everyone faces,” Noda said today
in the text of a speech marking the opening of a parliamentary
session. He urged the opposition to cooperate to pass the bill
“as soon as possible.”  Noda also vowed to tackle deflation and the strong yen,
both of which are weighing on a weakening economy. The speech
came hours after Tomohiko Mizuno and Atsushi Kumada resigned
from the  Democratic Party of Japan  and a poll showed Noda’s
approval rating fell 13 percentage points to 20 percent.  Parliament re-opens with Noda deadlocked with the largest
opposition parties over legislation needed to fund the rest of
the year’s budget ahead of an election that must be called by
August. The DPJ, which along with a coalition partner once
controlled more than two-thirds of the 480 seats in the lower
house, now has a six-seat majority.  “Noda’s reliant on just six people,” said Tokyo-based
independent political commentator Harumi Arima. “From the
public’s point of view, it looks as though he’s unable to stem
the flow.”  Today’s resignations came after the justice minister last
week quit, having admitted to links to the Yakuza and to
accepting donations from a foreign-run company. Noda has failed
to persuade opposition leaders to back legislation authorizing
the issuance of deficit-financing bonds without specifying when
he will fulfill an August pledge to call elections “soon.”  Talks Fail  Talks on the legislation with main opposition Liberal
Democratic Party leader Shinzo Abe and New Komeito leader Natsuo Yamaguchi, fell apart this month. The two lawmakers said they
could not cooperate on the passage of bills without a firmer
commitment on the election.  Finance Minister Koriki Jojima today reiterated that the
government will run out of money at the end of November unless
parliament passes the legislation. The standoff leaves Noda with
few options to boost an economy hit by plummeting exports amid a
territorial dispute with  China ,  Japan ’s biggest trading partner.  Some LDP officials have shown signs of flexibility on the
bond issuance bill. “In any case it will have to be passed,”
policy chief Akira Amari said in an interview broadcast by BS
Asahi television at the weekend.  Noda today said he would work even more closely with the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  to revive growth. Japan suffered a worse-than-
expected trade deficit in July as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a
slowdown in China dragged down exports and nuclear shutdowns
boosted energy imports.  The favorability rating for Abe’s LDP rose 5 points to 32
percent, according to the Nikkei newspaper poll published today.
The paper surveyed 931 people and provided no margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  