-- Nokia to Sell Phone Through Verizon to Step Up U.S. Push
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-10-29T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/nokia-to-sell-phone-through-verizon-to-step-up-u-s-push.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , struggling to revive U.S.
sales, will start offering a handset through the country’s
largest wireless carrier for the first time in three years,
targeting new smartphone users.  Verizon Wireless will start selling the Lumia 822 as part
of its “fall portfolio,” Nokia said today in a statement,
without giving exact date or price details. The device is aimed
at those moving up from a more basic handset or seeking to
transfer from a BlackBerry, for example, said Chris Weber, head
of sales and marketing.  A deal with Verizon Wireless, which has about 100 million
subscribers, expands Nokia’s push in the U.S. beyond  AT&T Inc. (T) 
and T-Mobile USA as the Espoo, Finland-based company tries to
halt market-share losses to Android devices and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone. The agreement is also a boon for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , whose
new Windows Phone 8 operating system runs the Lumia 822.  “This is a market that has lots of impact globally and
lots of influence, so it’s one we have to get right,” Weber,
47, said in an interview. “It’s really important for us to be
successful in the U.S.”  Nokia, which controlled more than half of global smartphone
sales before the first iPhone and Android devices were
introduced, jettisoned its homemade Symbian software last year
in favor of Windows to stop users from defecting. Its market-
share decline has accelerated since, with the company accounting
for just 4 percent of the worldwide smartphone market in the
third quarter, down from 14 percent a year earlier, according to
research firm Strategy Analytics.  Shares of Nokia have lost about 90 percent since Apple
started selling the iPhone in 2007, and  dropped  1.2 percent to
1.98 euros at 1:51 p.m. Helsinki time.  ‘Halo Effect’  The U.S. market is crucial in the smartphone business
because most innovative devices are often introduced there, and
handsets that become successful there gain attention globally
and tend to find buyers in other countries. That “halo effect”
is the biggest reason Nokia needs to win over U.S. customers,
said Weber, who was named to his current role as global sales
chief in June after spearheading Nokia’s re-entry into the North
American market.  Nokia accounted for about 2 percent of U.S. smartphone
purchases in the second quarter, according to Strategy
Analytics. The iPhone and devices using Google’s Android
software combined for about 90 percent.  “The U.S. is a huge market and one where Nokia has not
seen any significant sales in recent years,” said Geoff Blaber,
an analyst at CCS Insight in  London . The market is “essential
for Nokia to capture if it’s to seize some high-margin
business.”  City Lens  The Lumia 822, the first Nokia phone sold at Verizon
Wireless since the 7705 Twist in 2009, is aimed at the almost
100 million U.S. mobile-phone users who still don’t have
smartphones, Weber said. It follows other Lumia devices Nokia
has introduced for the U.S. market in the past year as part of
its comeback bid, including the higher-end Lumia 900.  “What we wanted to do was establish a beachhead -- we feel
like we’ve done that and we need to grow on that,” Weber said.  The Lumia 822 features software called City Lens that
displays the names of restaurants and shops when users point
their camera at them. The phone also comes with turn-by-turn
navigation, while special map software shows customers nearby
attractions.  ‘Top Priority’  Nokia is betting on the Windows operating system and its
business functions to also appeal to U.S. corporate customers
abandoning  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerrys, Weber said.
Weber has business-customer experience after spending 15 years
at Microsoft before joining Nokia last year.  Weber was brought in by Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, who himself joined from the software maker in 2010.  “Winning U.S. customers is a top priority for Nokia, and
Chris’s efforts to strike our first deal with Verizon in over
three years is proof that we’re on the right track,” Elop said
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  