-- Nomura Trails Goldman in Return on Equity Amid Losses Abroad
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-10-30T08:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/nomura-turns-to-second-quarter-profit-as-trading-income-jumps.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  trailed the
world’s biggest investment banks last quarter in generating
shareholder returns, underscoring the challenge for Chief
Executive Officer Koji Nagai in trimming costs without
sacrificing revenue.  Return on equity , a measure of how well the firm reinvests
stockholder funds, was 0.5 percent in the three months ended
Sept. 30, Japan’s biggest brokerage said yesterday after posting
net income of 2.8 billion yen ($35 million). That compared with
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s 8.6 percent.  “The current levels of net income are absolutely not
adequate,” Nomura’s Co-Deputy Chief Financial Officer  Jonathan Lewis  said in a phone interview yesterday. “Return on equity of
0.5 percent for the second quarter is not where we want to be.”  Nagai, 53, who took the post on Aug. 1, has pledged to save
$1 billion and put to rest an insider-trading scandal that
crimped investment banking business and prompted his predecessor
to resign. Boosting return on equity is “extremely critical”
for Tokyo-based Nomura and restoring confidence among clients
should be a priority, said analyst Shiro Yoshioka.  “It’s inevitable for Nomura to generate such a low ROE as
it’s in the middle of restructuring,” said Yoshioka, who works
at  Japaninvest Group Plc (3827)  in  Tokyo . “But they could have raised
the figure if it hadn’t been for the scandal. The bond
underwriting and M&A advisory businesses could have been a
stabilizer.”  Fixed Income  Shares of Nomura rose 1.4 percent to 287 yen at the close
of trading in Tokyo. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 1
percent. Last quarter’s profit, the fourth in a row, was driven
by fixed income as Nomura, like global competitors including
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Morgan Stanley, benefited from trading.  “Revenue from the fixed-income business was stronger than
we expected,” said  Masao Muraki , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG. “Nomura’s share performance has been low on a
price-to-book basis compared with other Japanese brokerages.”  The company’s  price-to-book ratio , a measure of its share
price relative to net assets, is 0.5 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s cheaper than Daiwa Securities
Group Inc.’s 0.68 percent and Matsui Securities Co.’s 1.81
percent, the  data  show. The Tokyo-based brokerages are Nomura’s
biggest publicly traded domestic rivals by market value.  Missed Estimates  Nomura’s quarterly net income compared with a 46.1 billion
yen loss a year earlier. It missed the 5 billion yen average
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News  as
brokerage commissions declined and operations abroad lost money
for a 10th straight quarter.  “Fixed income will continue to be the main driver for the
wholesale business,” Lewis, 44, said in Tokyo. “In  investment
banking , we are actually starting to see some M&A businesses
recovering, and revenue rising on the back of Asia-related
cross-border M&A transactions.”  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. and  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s two biggest banks, announced
quarterly earnings for securities operations today.  Mitsubishi
UFJ Securities Holdings Co.  posted net income of 8 billion yen,
compared with a loss of 504 million yen a year earlier. Profit
at  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  fell to 2.7 billion yen from 6.7
billion yen.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs’s return on equity widened to 8.6 percent for
the third quarter, from 5.4 percent in the second, as it had a
profit of $1.51 billion. New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  posted 6
percent return on equity for the period, excluding accounting
charges known as debt-valuation adjustments, following a loss of
$1.01 billion.  Chief Operating Officer Atsushi Yoshikawa said the company
is seeking licenses in  China  and  India  to increase revenue in
 Asia .  “We are actually in difficult situation in Asia in terms
of profitability,” Yoshikawa, 58, said on a conference call
with analysts yesterday. “There is potential for us to grab
more revenue in Asia, where our market share is low,” by
focusing on cross-border deals involving other regions.  Revenue rose 22 percent last quarter from a year earlier to
461.2 billion yen, Nomura said. Trading profit climbed more than
threefold to 88.9 billion yen, led by fixed income. Brokerage
commissions slid 16 percent to 72.3 billion yen. Investment
banking fees advanced 24 percent to 17.1 billion yen.  JAL IPO  Nomura missed out on mandates including a lead role
managing  Japan Airlines Co. (9201) ’s $8.3 billion initial public
offering following revelations that staff gave tips to traders
on share sales the brokerage managed in 2010.  The firm’s share of the Japanese equity and bond
underwriting businesses fell 5 percentage points each from the
previous three months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Its portion of the mergers advisory market dropped 12 percentage
points, the data show.  “I get the impression Nomura was just making ends meet”
in the quarter, judging from its 2.8 billion yen profit, said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $626 million at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. in Tokyo. “The impact from the
insider-trading scandal has passed its peak and will fade away
as time goes by.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  