-- Obama Says Public Should Prepare for Long Sandy Recovery
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-10-29T17:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/obama-says-public-should-prepare-for-long-sandy-recovery.html
President  Barack Obama  urged the
public to heed the warnings of state and federal authorities and
prepare for lengthy power outages and transportation disruptions
in the wake of  Hurricane Sandy .  “This is going to be a slow moving process through a wide
swath of the country,” said Obama from the White House briefing
room. “Please, listen to what your state and local officials
are saying.”  The president said he’s confident equipment and supplies
are in place to speed relief efforts once the storm lets up.
Failure to evacuate designated areas or not follow instructions
may endanger emergency personnel, he said.  Obama spoke after getting a a briefing on the storm and
emergency preparations from  Craig Fugate , administrator of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency,  Janet Napolitano , Secretary
of  Homeland Security , Richard Knabb, the director of the
National Hurricane Center Director, and other officials.  With eight days before the election and Hurricane Sandy
barreling towards the East Coast, Obama canceled campaign events
and rushed back to the White House as the Atlantic’s largest-
ever tropical storm threatens to sever power lines and disrupt
the lives of millions.  Mitt Romney , his Republican opponent,
announced today that he would cancel events for the next two
days.  Campaigning Suspended  Obama left Florida early this morning, skipping a scheduled
rally in Orlando where he was going to appear with former
President  Bill Clinton . The early morning decision did not leave
time for the charter airplane that transports many reporters who
cover the president to return to Washington before the storm,
stranding most of Obama’s traveling press corps in  Florida . The
Obama campaign also canceled a rally that was planned for
tomorrow in Green Bay, Wisconsin, taking Obama off of the
campaign trail for two days.  The storm forced Obama to balance his duties as the
country’s commander-in-chief with his role as his party’s
nominee for president.  “I am not worried at this point about the impact on the
election. I am worried about the impact on families and I am
worried about the impact on our first responders. I am worried
about the impact on our economy and on transportation,” Obama
said. “The election will take care of itself next week.”  “He has real responsibilities and those responsibilities
come first,”  David Axelrod , Obama’s senior campaign adviser,
said in a conference call with reporters. “We’re obviously
going to lose a bunch of campaign time, but that’s as it has to
be and we’ll try to make it up on the back end.”  Yesterday, as he delivered pizzas to campaign workers in
Orlando, Florida, Obama said he realized that the storm would
impede his ability to make the final push for a second term in
person. Canceling events would put “a little more burden on
folks in the field because I am not going to be able to campaign
quite as much over the next couple of days,” he told campaign
staff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  