-- Holt Renfrew Opens Discount Chain as Competition Steps Up
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-10-29T18:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/holt-renfrew-opens-discount-chain-as-competition-steps-up.html
Holt Renfrew & Co. Ltd., a Canadian
luxury fashion retailer, said today it will open new stores
offering lower prices as it braces for increased competition
from the U.S.  The Toronto-based company will open its first hr2 store in
March in  Quebec  and plans to have locations across the country
by 2015. The stores will range in size from 25,000 to 35,000
square feet, smaller than Holt Renfrew’s nine department stores,
said Heather Arts, vice president in charge of the new chain.  Women aged 25 and up will be the target market of the new
stores, which will carry womenswear, menswear and accessories
delivered daily, she said.  “This type of concept does not exist currently,” in
 Canada , Arts said. “The way we’re going to be showcasing our
product and curating it when it comes in the store, it’s going
to be an interesting and fun environment for the consumer to
shop in.”  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , the Seattle-based department store chain,
announced it will open as many as nine locations in Canada
starting in 2014. Canadian competitor Hudson’s Bay Co. plans to
go public to help finance its turnaround.  Holt’s foray into the lower end of the market will also be
met by  Target Corp. (TGT)  from  Minneapolis  when it enters Canada next
year. Nordstrom operates a similar second chain in the U.S.
called Nordstrom Rack where merchandise from Nordstrom
department stores is sold at discount.  Holt’s new chain will carry new clothing by the same brands
featured in the department stores at a lower price, rather than
aged product sold at a discount, said Arts.  Holt Renfrew, in business since 1837, was bought by W.
Galen and Hilary Weston in 1986. Galen Weston is the chairman of
 George Weston Ltd. (WN) , the bakery company that also controls Loblaw
Cos. Ltd., the country’s biggest grocery store chain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 