-- On Abortion, Absolutists Will Always Lose
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-29T22:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/on-abortion-absolutists-will-always-lose.html
Abortion has been a campaign issue
for decades. Rape is a more recent, and more troubling, point of
political discussion. But understanding the connection between
the two is essential to evaluating the controversies percolating
in  Senate races  in  Missouri  and  Indiana  and what they entail for
national politics.  In a debate last week against his Democratic opponent,
Republican Senate candidate  Richard Mourdock  of Indiana said
that “even when life begins in that horrible situation of rape,
that it is something that God intended to happen.” Mourdock
opposes abortion even in cases of rape and incest, which is a
logical position to hold if you believe a fertilized egg is
fully human. In that case, there can be no distinction between
abortion and murder.  Mourdock is not the first opponent of abortion rights to
have this view. (It is held by the Republican vice presidential
nominee,  Paul Ryan , as well.) But context matters in politics,
and Mourdock’s statement followed both a flurry of anti-abortion
legislation in the states and  the assertion  by Republican Senate
candidate Todd Akin of Missouri that women don’t get pregnant
from “legitimate rape.”  Mourdock and Akin are exponents of an anti-abortion
movement that grew strikingly assertive after the Republican
electoral success of 2010, promoting “personhood” amendments
on state ballots and in Congress and placing restrictions on
abortion rights in more than 40 states.  Three dozen states  now
require pre-abortion counseling, often with the goal of
dissuading patients. Texas requires women to receive an
ultrasound and requires doctors to tell patients that abortion
is linked to  breast cancer , a claim  scientists  dispute.  Rape Distinctions  Anti-abortion legislators in the  House of Representatives 
recently entered into the political lexicon the notion of
“forcible rape,” a corollary to Akin’s “legitimate rape.”
The unstated implication of such language is that some rapes are
not forced but invited -- the victim either welcomed or somehow
deserved what she got. By implementing a total ban on abortion,
even in cases of rape, incest or where the life of the mother is
endangered, Mourdock, Akin and their ideological brethren would
enshrine that logic while ensuring that no woman could escape
rape’s ultimate consequence. This is a radical departure from
the ungainly but otherwise stable consensus that has marked
abortion politics for decades -- in which support for rape,
incest and life-of-the-mother exceptions has been commonplace,
even among abortion opponents.  “Consensus” may seem an odd way to describe the state of
abortion politics, in which warring sides have long pitted their
absolutes against each other in noisy and sometimes violent
conflict. But that battle took place largely at the extremes of
the two parties. Mainstream Republican presidents paid lip
service to the anti-abortion crusade while appointing to the
Supreme Court Sandra Day O’Connor, David Souter and  Anthony Kennedy  -- all protectors of Roe v. Wade.  Meanwhile, Democrats gradually quieted their militant
abortion-rights wing, refuting philosophical claims that a fetus
has no moral value and legal claims that abortion rights have no
limits. In the 1990s, Democrats struck upon the message that
abortion should be “safe, legal and rare,” the last word an
implicit rebuke to those claiming public morality has no
purchase on this private issue.  The  disappearance  of the “safe, legal and rare”
formulation from the Democratic platform this year now seems
like a troubling omen. With anti-abortion militants increasingly
dominating the  Republican Party , Democrats appear tempted to
retreat from the muddled middle and hunker down on their own
fringe. That would be a moral miscalculation and a political
blunder. It is precisely the ambivalent middle of the debate
that most deserves reinforcing.  Judicial Compromise  Critics have derided Roe v. Wade as a kind of legal
Frankenstein cobbled together from spare parts in the murky
shadows -- penumbra, if you prefer -- of the Constitution. We
won’t rise here to defend the architecture of one of the
judiciary’s most inelegant compromises. But what Roe lacks in
constitutional aesthetics it more than compensates for in
political acumen.  The decision legalizes abortion while placing parameters on
it, in particular the higher hurdle for abortions after the
fetus achieves viability. By qualifying the right, the  Supreme
Court  underscored the consensus view that abortion is a matter
of serious conscience and consequence. In effect, it shaped its
decision in accord with the notion that abortion should be
“safe, legal and rare.”  Most Americans agree. Public opinion on the issue isn’t
fixed, yet through the years the majority has never strayed from
the view that abortion is an unpleasant but necessary reality,
one that should be simultaneously lawful and discouraged.  The anti-abortion movement is newly animated by its growing
power in the Republican Party and its victories in state
capitals. In some states, abortion is now legal in theory only.
In  Mississippi , for one, among women who are poor and distant
from the state’s sole abortion provider, it might as well be
outlawed.  But like a previous generation of prohibitionists, anti-
abortion absolutists risk being broken on their own hard
aversion to compromise. The rhetoric emanating from Mourdock and
Akin is symptomatic. As a result of their stands on abortion,
the two candidates will emerge from their campaigns either
defeated, as seems probable, or emboldened, in which case defeat
merely awaits a later turn.  This isn’t a course that politicians who support abortion
rights should emulate. Those rights will be better protected if
supporters recognize and respect the validity of opposing views.
Even if Roe v. Wade is eventually overturned -- and we hope it
won’t be -- the anti-abortion victory will be short-lived. The
political middle may appear mushy, but if provoked it will prove
surprisingly powerful. There is a reason Republican presidents
have preferred to let the sleeping dog lie. The militants of
either side will not win this one.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on using the WTO to curb  China’s
unfair trade ;  Margaret Carlson  on  how Hurricane Sandy affects 
the presidential campaign;  Noah Feldman  on the  next U.S.
president’s Supreme Court picks ;  Edward Glaeser  on how  San
Francisco beat Detroit  in the economic race;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
whether  Romney is “going soft” on Iran ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on his
hopes for a  Romney presidency ; A. Gary Shilling on the
 beneficiaries of low interest rates ; Richard Vedder on those
stifling the  online revolution in higher education .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 