-- Honda Shows Japan Automakers to Wait for Crisis-Free Year
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   M a   J i e
-- 2012-10-29T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/honda-cuts-profit-forecast-as-chinese-shun-japanese-cars-1-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  President  Akio Toyoda  said seven months ago that his biggest wish at the time
was for a year free of disasters. He’s not going to get it.  Analysts have scaled back full-year earnings estimates for
Toyota,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  in the past month
amid concerns about anti-Japan sentiment in China, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg. They were right about Honda, which
yesterday cut its annual profit  forecast  by 95 billion yen ($1.2
billion), or 20 percent, as a wave of protests spread across the
world’s biggest automobile market in September.  For the Japanese automakers, Chinese consumers’ aversion
toward their products follows last year’s tsunami and Thai
floods that destroyed factories and disrupted  supply lines . The
latest adversity -- fueled by a territorial dispute over a group
of islands claimed by both countries -- is turning into an
opportunity for  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  to pick up
market share in China.  “What Honda’s announced is a good indication of the storms
ahead for the Japanese earnings season,”  Ashvin Chotai , London-
based managing director at Intelligence Automotive  Asia , said by
phone. “Bad as it is, these sort of anti-Japanese feelings
don’t go away very quickly.”  Honda, Japan’s third-largest automaker, cut its full-year
China sales estimate 17 percent and lowered projections for
operating profit and revenue. The announcement comes less than a
month after the Tokyo-based company reported September sales in
the country tumbled 40 percent to 16-month low.  Islands Dispute  The decades-long territorial dispute, involving a group of
islands called Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, was
reignited in April, when Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara, a
longtime critic of China, proposed buying the territories. That
led Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s administration to purchase
the islets last month, escalating tensions between the two
nations and sparking violent protests across China.  While traffic at dealerships in China is gradually
recovering, sales may not return to normal until the Lunar New
Year in February, Honda Executive Vice President  Tetsuo Iwamura 
told reporters yesterday. The company is planning to adjust
production through at least mid-November, he said.  “China is a major risk, and this is causing confidence to
wane,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees more than $600
million at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.  Shares Tumble  Honda, which accidentally released earnings before the
market close, fell 4.7 percent to 2,399 yen yesterday, becoming
the  biggest drag  on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average. Toyota and
Nissan shares also fell, reversing earlier gains, after Honda
reported its earnings and forecasts.  Full-year average earnings estimates by analysts have
fallen in the past four weeks for Honda, Nissan and Toyota,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Toyota has said it may fail to meet its target to sell 1
million units in  China  in 2012 after last month’s deliveries in
the market tumbled 49 percent -- the most in a decade. Nissan,
the biggest Japanese carmaker in China, may cut its operating
profit estimate by as much as 100 billion yen, the Nikkei
newspaper reported last week. Toyota reports earnings Nov. 5,
followed a day later by Yokohama-based Nissan.  Downplaying Toll  Honda’s profit in the second quarter ended Sept. 30 was 25
percent below the average analyst  estimate  compiled by
Bloomberg, even after the revisions in the past month. The
average analyst estimate for Nissan’s second-quarter net income
has fallen in the past four weeks to 91.2 billion yen. For
Toyota, the consensus has risen to 233.5 billion yen.  “Financial analysts are certainly underestimating the
scale of the anti- Japan  feelings in China,” Chotai said.  By contrast,  Germany ’s Volkswagen this month reported that
China sales in the July-to-September period climbed 21 percent.
Seoul-based Hyundai Motor last week  reported  second-quarter
profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates and said the Korean
carmaker benefited from anti-Japanese sentiment in China.  Aside from last year’s natural disasters, Japanese
automakers in recent years have battled with a stronger yen and
the global financial crisis following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. Toyota also had to cope with the recall
of more than 10 million vehicles in 2009 and 2010 for defects
associated with unintended acceleration.  And until Chinese consumers return to Japanese dealerships,
executives such as Toyota’s president will have to put their
wishes for a crisis-free year on hold.  “I feel that we have hit rock bottom and that we are
turning the corner,” Toyoda told reporters in  Tokyo  on March
22, a year after the earthquake-triggered tsunami ravaged Japan.
“What we want more than anything is for nothing to go wrong
this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  