-- Honda May Share Platforms, Facilities With Malaysia’s Proton
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-10-29T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/honda-may-share-platforms-facilities-with-malaysia-s-proton.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Japan ’s third-
largest automaker, may share car platforms and production
facilities with Malaysian national carmaker Proton Holdings Bhd.  The companies signed an agreement yesterday and will also
explore opportunities to collaborate in technology and new
product line-up, according to a Kuala Lumpur stock exchange
filing by Proton’s parent,  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB)   “Having a strong and renowned global automotive player
like Honda Motor as the foreign strategic partner to Proton will
provide the group with the opportunity to grow as an original
equipment manufacturer,” DRB said in the statement. “The
opportunities are endless.”  Honda already produces cars in Malaysia, including CR-V
sports utility vehicles. For Proton, the deal may provide access
to technology that could help it boost exports, after holding
unsuccessful alliance talks with Volkswagen AG and Peugeot SA.  DRB,  an autos-to-property group controlled by billionaire
Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary, wants to bolster Proton after taking
over the Malaysian carmaker this year.  DRB’s shares jumped as much as 5.3 percent to 2.60 ringgit
in Kuala Lumpur trading yesterday, the highest intraday level
since Aug. 24, after Business Times reported Proton may sign a
strategic partnership with an unnamed Japanese carmaker. The
stock later pared gains to close at 2.53 ringgit before the
announcement, having risen 24 percent this year. The  benchmark 
FTSE Bursa  Malaysia  KLCI Index is up 9.3 percent this year.  The agreement “indicates DRB’s commitment and initiative
in restructuring Proton and turning it around with strategic
partnership,” Daniel Wong, an analyst at Hong Leong Financial
Group Bhd., wrote in a report yesterday, ahead of the statement.
“We strongly believe that DRB is taking swift actions in
integrating newly acquired Proton and contributing positively to
the group.”  Proton, set up by former Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in
1983 to steer the Southeast Asian nation’s industrialization
plan, owns unprofitable British sports-car maker Lotus Group
International Ltd. and has been struggling to compete with
rivals including Toyota Motor Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho in Tokyo at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  