-- Top 10 U.K. Law Firms Increase Market Share With Overseas Work
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-10-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/top-10-u-k-law-firms-increase-market-share-with-overseas-work.html
The U.K.’s 10 largest law firms
control nearly half of the revenue for legal services among the
country’s top 100 firms and are continuing to increase their
share of the market through overseas business.  Most of the top-10 firms already get 40 percent of their
revenue from outside the U.K. and are looking to expand through
mergers or acquisitions in other countries,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a report published today.  International growth into new markets “offers an
opportunity for revenue growth for firms that have the scale and
appetite to compete,” said David Snell, head of PwC’s
professional partnerships group in  London .  Gains in market share can’t offset an otherwise difficult
environment for legal services that is still behind the levels
recorded before the financial crisis began in 2008, PwC said.
With inflation stripped out from annual results, profits per
partner at the 10 largest U.K. firms dropped by 22 percent since
2008 to 2.5 million pounds according to the 84-page report.  The U.K.’s so-called magic circle of law firms produced a
mixed bag of financial results this year. Clifford Chance LLP,
the country’s highest-grossing law firm, reported a 7 percent
rise in revenue to 1.3 billion pounds ($2.1 billion). Allen &
Overy LLP posted a 6 percent increase while Linklaters LLP rose
0.6 percent. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP’s fee income
fell by about 0.9 percent to 1.13 billion pounds.  The large firms are also increasing income and profits by
charging higher fees than smaller rivals and managing senior
lawyers better.  “The big differentiator for the largest firms remains
their higher chargeable hours, premium pricing and tightly
managed fee earner headcount,” Snell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  