-- Morgan Lewis, Cravath, Munger Tolles: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-29T14:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/morgan-lewis-cravath-munger-tolles-business-of-law.html
Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP hired a
Washington team of white collar attorneys formerly of White &
Case LLP and led by former acting U.S. Attorney General and
Deputy Attorney General George J. Terwilliger III.  Also joining as partners in the litigation department are
white collar investigations and litigation practitioners Daniel
Levin, Matthew Miner, and Robert J. Bittman.  “Coming on the heels of our extensive international
expansion in 2012, the arrival of this team -- led by one of the
world’s foremost Washington-based white collar and government
investigations lawyers -- offers our clients a unique and
valuable combination of capabilities,” said firm Chairman
Francis M. Milone.  Terwilliger, former head of White & Case’s global white
collar practice group, has represented energy, financial
services, telecommunication, health care and industrial
companies in government investigations and in civil and criminal
litigation.  Levin has worked on internal investigations involving
allegations of accounting irregularities, options backdating and
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. He has also
held positions in the government including senior associate
counsel to the president and legal adviser to the National
Security Council; acting assistant attorney general, Office of
Legal Counsel; chief of staff to Attorney General William Barr;
and chief of staff to FBI Director  Robert Mueller .  Miner focuses his practice on white collar enforcement and
compliance matters, as well as congressional inquiries and
committee investigations, the firm said. Before going into
private practice, Miner advised the  U.S. Senate  in a number of
roles, including as minority staff director to the Senate
Judiciary Committee and, earlier, as majority chief counsel for
crime, terrorism and oversight to the same committee.  Bittman represents companies and individuals in connection
with criminal and regulatory investigations before the U.S.
Securities & Exchange Commission and the U.S. Departments of
Justice, State, Commerce and Treasury, as well as in parallel
civil and administrative proceedings. His areas of focus include
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Sarbanes-Oxley Act,
international data privacy laws and corporate governance.
Bittman was deputy independent counsel for the Office of
Independent Counsel Ken Starr.  Morgan Lewis has more than 1,600 lawyers and professionals
in 24 offices across the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Reed Smith Hires Employment Partner in Pittsburgh  Reed Smith  LLP hired Beth M. Henke as a partner in the
labor and employment practice in Pittsburgh. She was previously
at Marcus & Shapira LLP.  Henke handles the defense of employment-related actions in
federal and state tribunals. She has also been involved in
Sarbanes-Oxley litigation, as well as defended class and
collective actions involving wage and hour and discrimination
issues. Her expertise includes traditional labor and employment
matters, such as labor arbitrations and negotiations, union
organizing campaigns, union avoidance campaigns, and National
Labor Relations Board litigation.  Reed Smith has more than 1,700 lawyers in 23 offices
throughout the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Barnes & Thornburg Hires Minneapolis Corporate Partner  Joe R. Thompson joined Barnes & Thornburg LLP’s Minneapolis
office as a partner in the corporate department. He was
previously at Stoel Rives LLP, where he was a partner and
chairman of the agriculture and food initiative, the firm said.  Thompson focuses his practice on advising agribusiness,
food processing and renewable energy clients on joint ventures,
mergers and acquisitions, divestitures and related commercial
transactions. He also has experience with strategic business
entity structuring and restructuring, project development
matters, private and public equity capitalization, debt
financing, and co-packing, supply and tolling agreements.  Barnes & Thornburg has 12 U.S. offices.  News  NFL Asks Judge to Dismiss Vilma Move to Disqualify Tagliabue  The National Football League said there’s no basis for
disqualifying its former commissioner, Paul Tagliabue, from
arbitrating a dispute over New Orleans Saints player Jonathan Vilma’s full-season suspension for alleged bounty-hunting.  The NFL called the move to take Tagliabue off the case an
“untoward and baseless demand” that has “no merit,”
according to a filing Oct. 26 in federal court in New Orleans.  Vilma argued in court filings this week that Tagliabue has
a conflict of interest because he is a senior counsel with the
 law firm  representing the current NFL commissioner,  Roger Goodell . Vilma also said the firm, Covington & Burling LLP, has
represented the NFL since at least 2006 and collected millions
of dollars in legal fees from the league.  “Tagliabue now has been placed in a position of presiding
over a matter in which one of his firm’s most important clients,
the NFL, and one of his longtime colleagues have an undeniable
interest,” Vilma’s attorneys said in a court filing.  The NFL claimed that about two dozen Saints players paid
one another as much as $1,500 for trying to injure opposing
players including quarterback  Brett Favre . The players have
denied the league’s allegations.  The league announced Tagliabue’s appointment as appellate
arbitrator on Oct. 19. He will decide whether Goodell’s
disciplinary ruling was proper.  Tagliabue served as NFL commissioner from 1989 until 2006,
when Goodell replaced him.  The NFL said that Tagliabue hasn’t represented the league
in any matter since returning to Covington & Burling in 2007.  “Commissioner Tagliabue has had no personal involvement in
the investigation, arbitration or litigation of the bounty
matter,” NFL lawyers said in the filing.  The league said it will be represented by the law firm
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP at an appellate hearing for Vilma and
the other three players set for Oct. 30.  The case is Vilma v. Goodell, 12-1283, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  California Withdraws Mitchell as Mediator in PG&E Pipe Talks  The California Public Utilities Commission withdrew a
proposal for former U.S. Senator  George Mitchell  to serve as
mediator in settlement talks with  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  over potential
fines from a 2010 pipeline blast.  Mitchell was removed after consumer advocacy groups and the
cities of San Bruno and San Francisco objected to his selection,
the commission said in a statement. The groups said they weren’t
consulted on Mitchell’s selection and his law firm, DLA Piper
LLP, had a conflict of interest in the case.  An explosion on a PG&E natural gas pipeline killed eight
people and destroyed 38 homes in San Bruno in September 2010.
The California commission suspended hearings into PG&E’s role in
the pipeline blast earlier this month in an effort to reach a
negotiated settlement on penalties.  “Unless a stipulation can be reached, I am worried it
might take until mid-next year before these cases can be
concluded in the normal litigation manner,”  Michael Peevey ,
president of the commission, said in the statement. “We want
justice and remedies much sooner than that, to get closure and
true justice for the people of San Bruno.”  PG&E “supports settlement negotiations and we will
continue to support them as a party to this process,” Brittany
Chord, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based utility, said
in a telephone interview.  The withdrawal of the mediator “indicates that the
negotiations could be in a more difficult position” as
“several parties now seem to be voicing more skepticism about
the role the CPUC might be playing in the negotiations,” said
 Paul Patterson , a New York-based utility analyst with Glenrock
Associates LLC, in an e-mailed statement.  Berlusconi Sentenced to Prison for Mediaset Tax Fraud  Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who
describes himself as the most persecuted man in history, was
found guilty of tax fraud and sentenced to four years in prison
in a film-rights case involving his  Mediaset SpA (MS)  television
company.  Berlusconi’s lawyers,  Niccolo Ghedini  and Piero Longo,
called the verdict “absolutely incredible” and “lacking legal
logic,” in an e-mailed statement. They plan to file an appeal
of the decision, and said “they trust” that a higher court
will overturn the verdict. Berlusconi can appeal the verdict two
more times under Italian law.  It is unlikely that Berlusconi will serve any jail time
given his age, 76, and the Italian appeals process, which can
run out the statute of limitations. The court pardoned three
years of the sentence. He was also barred from public office for
five years, according to a sentence read Oct. 26 by a judge in
Milan.  “He won’t go to jail because criminal sentences in the
first instance aren’t executed if an appeal is presented within
15 days,” said Fabio Belloni, a criminal lawyer who previously
defended  Parmalat (PLT)  Chairman Calisto Tanzi in Italy’s biggest
bankruptcy case.  “‘The sentence remains suspended until the end of the
appeals process. The same thing with the ban from public
office,’’ he said.  The ruling comes as Berlusconi faces another trial on
charges of paying for sex with a minor. The revelations about
his relationship with a 17-year-old Milan nightclub dancer and
the so-called Bunga Bunga parties he threw at his Milan
residence led to a slump in his popularity last year that
contributed to his resignation as prime minister in November.  ‘‘There will be consequences,’’ Berlusconi said Oct. 27 in
an interview on the news bulletin of his Mediaset Spa’s Canale 5
when asked to comment on the verdict. ‘‘I feel forced to remain
in politics to reform the justice system, so that what happened
to me will not happen to other citizens.’’  Deals  Mergers to Get Boost in 2013 Regardless of Election, Varney Says  Merger activity will see a boost next year, said the former
chief of the U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust unit,  Christine Varney , head of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP’s antitrust
practice. She predicted that the winner of the White House won’t
have a significant impact on the field.  ‘‘I see it very, very busy in my own practice,” Varney
said in a panel Oct. 25 at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in
New York, at which she and former Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Arthur Levitt  downplayed the impact of the
presidential election.  Varney, a former U.S. Assistant Attorney General, said she
has half a dozen projects brewing and has observed the
availability of “a lot of capital on the sidelines,”
especially in areas such as emerging industries looking to
augment portfolios. She predicts “a lot of M&A” in 2013.  Levitt, a senior adviser to the  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and a board member of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, dismissed arguments that President Barack Obama’s administration has been heavy-handed with new rules,
saying “regulation is on shakier ground that it’s been in many,
many years.”  “The congressional committees that oversee the regulators
are universally in the pockets of the companies being
regulated,” Levitt said, accusing Congress of pushing such laws
as the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act that threatens
investor safety. “Investors have never been more exposed.”  Bankruptcy  Buffett’s Berkshire Wins ResCap Auction With $1.5 Billion Offer  Munger, Tolles & Olson LLP partners Thomas B. Walper, Seth
Goldman, Mary Ann Todd and Brett J. Rodda advised  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , which won an auction for a portfolio of
Residential Capital LLC’s loans with a $1.5 billion bid, adding
to  Warren Buffett ’s bet on a housing market recovery.  Morrison & Foerster LLP is ResCap’s law firm handling the
bankruptcy case. Partners include Larren Nashelsky, Gary Lee,
Lorenzo Marinuzzi, Todd Goren and Norman Rosenbaum.  The competing bidder was a group that included a unit of
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , according to two people familiar with
the matter, who declined to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  ResCap auctioned its mortgage-servicing business to  Ocwen
Financial Corp. (OCN)  on Oct. 24 for $3 billion. Ocwen beat  Nationstar
Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  in an auction that would create at least
the fifth-largest U.S. mortgage servicer.  Mayer Brown LLP served as primary deal counsel to Ocwen
Loan Servicing. Banking and finance partners Jon Van Gorp as
well as John Lawlor and corporate and securities/mergers and
acquisitions partner Bill Kucera worked on the deal.  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , a Detroit-based auto lender majority
owned by U.S. taxpayers, allowed its New York-based ResCap unit
to file for bankruptcy in May to distance itself from the
mortgage lender’s losses and help repay its 2008 bailout
following the U.S.  housing  crash and subsequent credit crisis.
Ally was previously owned by General Motors Corp.  ResCap’s board approved Berkshire’s offer for the portfolio
of about 47,000 whole loans as the “highest and best bid,”
according to a statement. The agreement must now be approved by
the bankruptcy court. A hearing is set for Nov. 19. The two
auctions were expected to generate about $4 billion, ResCap said
in a May 14 statement announcing its bankruptcy.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Firm News  Kilpatrick Townsend Opens Shanghai Office for IP Work  Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP  opened an office in
Shanghai which will be led by Kenneth Chang, an intellectual
property attorney who has practiced for more than 10 years in
the firm’s Denver office.  Charles Gray, an intellectual property associate in the
same office, also has relocated permanently to Shanghai.  “Kilpatrick Townsend’s internationally recognized
intellectual property department, with over 300 attorneys, is
committed to creating a significant presence in this burgeoning
area of the world,” said Paul Aguggia, Kilpatrick Townsend’s
chairman. “The Shanghai office creates an outstanding
opportunity for growth. A presence here, along with our offices
in Tokyo and Taiwan, is critical to giving direct access to the
region’s key markets.”  Chang focuses his practice on intellectual property
litigation and counseling. He has experience litigating matters
related to semiconductor processing and equipment, circuitry
design, software and medical devices both in Federal Court and
before the U.S. International Trade Commission, the firm said.  Kilpatrick has 18 offices in the U.S., the Middle East and
Asia.  Herbert Smith Freehills to Open Office in Guinea  Herbert Smith  Freehills LLP is opening an office in
Conakry, the capital of Guinea in West Africa, in early 2013.  Bertrand Montembault, a projects partner for Africa
currently based in the firm’s Paris office, will initially be
heading the office. He will be assisted by senior associate
Salimatou Diallo. The office will have a regional focus on
corporate and projects work in West Africa.  Legacy Herbert Smith was active in Africa for three
decades, the firm said, and developing a particular reputation
among firms looking to invest in Francophone West Africa.
Herbert Smith advised Bharti Airtel on its $10.7 billion
acquisition of the 15 African mobile networks of Zain Africa,
the firm said. The firm also advised Rio Tinto on many aspects
of the Simandou iron ore integrated project in Guinea.  Legacy Freehills also worked in Africa, particularly on
resources projects and also in the areas of finance,
infrastructure and disputes, the firm said. The firm advised
AMCOL International Corporation on its agreement to acquire
Chrome Corp. Ltd.’s 74 percent interest in the Ruighoek chrome
project in South Africa for $41 million. The firm also advised
South African AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. on its proposed A$4.5
billion ($4.7 billion) hostile takeover bid of Normandy Mining
Ltd.  “Having a presence in Guinea is a clear demonstration of
our commitment to being a firm that works in Africa through
Africa, and we want both our clients and local communities to
benefit from this presence,” Stephane Brabant, the head of
Herbert Smith Freehills’ Africa practice, said in a statement.  Herbert Smith Freehills has more than 2,800 lawyers in more
than 20 offices across Asia Pacific, Europe, the Middle East,
Africa and  North America .  Litigation  BBC Faces Lawsuits by TV Star’s Alleged Sex-Abuse Victims  The British Broadcasting Corp. may be weighed down for
years by a wave of civil lawsuits and reputational damage
resulting from allegations of decades of sexual abuse of
children by former television star Jimmy Savile.  London police are probing allegations that Savile, who died
last year at the age of 84, may have abused more than 300 people
as early as 1959. Claims may reach the  BBC ’s highest ranks if
there was a cover-up to save its reputation, said Mark Burden, a
liability insurance director at Prime Professions Ltd.  “If there’s some systemic issue about the way the
institution was being run, obviously the directors or officers
who were there at the time could be held accountable,” Burden
said in London. “From a reputational point of view, you just
don’t know how that’s going to affect the business going
forward. It could have significant consequences.”  The  BBC , the world’s largest public broadcaster, is running
internal probes and cooperating with police and lawmakers
investigating the incidents. It seeks to avoid the type of
damage that befell  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. publisher after civil
lawsuits revealed that a phone-hacking conspiracy, with hundreds
of victims, had been covered up for years by executives.  Savile’s alleged victims “deserve their day in court,”
said  Liz Dux , a lawyer at Russell Jones & Walker Solicitors, who
is representing at least 10 people. Many of the potential
claimants have said they told people years earlier about the
abuse and “weren’t believed,” Dux said.  “The victims feel somewhat robbed, because he obviously
cannot be prosecuted and cannot give evidence -- he’s not there
to suffer the repercussions,” Dux said of Savile.  BBC Trust spokeswoman Hannah Murdoch declined to comment on
potential suits, saying it may conflict with the internal
investigations.  Previous attempts to investigate Savile failed. A woman
called the Metropolitan Police in 2003 claiming Savile touched
her inappropriately in the 1970s, though she didn’t file a
complaint, Commander Peter Spindler said Oct. 25. Prosecutors
who reviewed similar claims in 2007 didn’t press charges.  The scandal was brought to light in a documentary by
broadcaster  ITV Plc (ITV)  this month that featured several women
accusing the host of BBC’s “Top of the Pops” music show of
sexual abuse when they were teens. Savile, who was knighted in
1990, also fronted “Jim’ll Fix It,” which granted children’s
wishes, such as meeting celebrities.  The BBC will probably be sued for negligence in failing to
stop the TV star and may be forced to pay “hundreds of
thousands of pounds” to each victim, said  David Foster , a
lawyer with Barlow Robbins LLP in Guildford, England, who isn’t
involved in the cases.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  