-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall for Second Day; Kia Slumps
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-29T22:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/most-emerging-stocks-gain-as-technology-industrial-shares-rise.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
second day as automakers tumbled and companies from Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd. to Petroleo Brasileiro SA reported
disappointing results.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost less than 0.1 percent
to 990.24 at the close of trading in New York, the lowest close
since Sept. 13.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , South Korea’s second-biggest
automaker, slid to a 14-month low after Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. downgraded the stock and Honda Motor Co. cut its full-year
profit forecast. Bharat,  India ’s largest maker of power-plant
equipment, fell the most in nine months and Petrobras,  Brazil ’s
state-run oil company, had its biggest drop since July.  Russia ’s
Micex slipped for a fifth day as oil retreated.  More than 59 percent of companies in the developing markets
gauge that reported quarterly earnings this month have missed
analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Equity trading volumes in Asia slumped as  Hurricane Sandy 
approached New York City, prompting America’s securities
industry to shut U.S. stock markets today.  “There’s no big momentum investors can lean on for the
moment,” Chung Yun Sik, chief investment officer for equities
at ING Investment Management Korea Ltd., which oversees about
$19 billion, said by phone in  Seoul . “We’re seeing
directionless trade depending on earnings results. Even after
earnings estimates by analysts had already been lowered, we have
seen more negative surprises.”  Lower Volume  The number of shares changing hands on Russia’s Micex was
40 percent below the 30-day average for the index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. About 24 percent fewer shares of
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  companies changed hands, and trading
volumes were 39 percent lower versus the average for the Kospi
and 21 percent for the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index, the data
show.  The Ukrainian Equities Index jumped 6.2 percent after
President Viktor Yanukovych’s ruling party won more votes than
its rivals in parliamentary elections.  Brazil’s Bovespa index slipped 0.2 percent and Russia’s
 Micex (INDEXCF)  dropped 0.1 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.4
percent, while the Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong rose 0.9 percent. The BSE India
Sensitive Index added less than 0.1 percent.  Argentine bonds posted their biggest two-day plunge in four
years as JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp., and
Barclays Plc cut their recommendations on the debt following a
U.S. court decision favoring holders of defaulted securities.
Yields on the government’s bonds due 2033 rose 12.85 percent,
after sinking a record 10 cents on Oct. 26, according to pricing
provided by JPMorgan.  Yuan Gains  China’s  yuan  advanced, touching a 19-year high of 6.2371
per dollar, as signs the world’s second-largest economy is
recovering from a seven-quarter slowdown lured foreign funds.
The Hungarian forint had the biggest two-day drop in two months
on concern  Hungary  won’t obtain aid from the International
Monetary Fund and the European Union. The forint fell 1 percent
against the euro, extending its two-day decline to 1.8 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has dropped 26 percent from
its all-time high five years ago on Oct. 29, 2007. The emerging-
market gauge trades at 11.4 times estimated earnings, compared
with a multiple of 13.1 times for the MSCI World Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The developing-nations gauge has lost 1.2 percent in
October, set for its biggest monthly decline since May. The
index fell 1.5 percent last week amid concerns over economic
growth and corporate earnings.  A gauge of consumer-discretionary companies led declines
among 10 industry groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,
falling by 0.9 percent to the lowest level since Sept. 13. Kia
sank 4 percent in Seoul after Daiwa cut its stock rating to hold
from outperform. The automaker extended a 5.6 percent slump on
Oct. 26 after it posted profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Bharat Falls  Bharat (BHEL)  Heavy slumped 6.4 percent, the most since January,
after reporting second-quarter profit of 12.7 billion rupees
($235 million), less than the 13.6 billion rupees estimated by
analysts.  Petrobras slid 3.4 percent, the most since July 31. Net
income declined to 5.57 billion reais ($2.7 billion), or 43
centavos a share. The company was expected to report adjusted
profit of 58 centavos a share, the average estimate of seven
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  M. Dias Branco SA (MDIA3) , a Brazilian maker of cookies and pasta,
fell 1.4 percent, reversing two days of gains, after posting
third-quarter adjusted net income of 114.3 million reais, which
compares with the average estimate of 120 million reais in a
Bloomberg survey of four analysts.  CCX Carvao da Colombia SA, the coal company controlled by
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , fell 5.6 percent to a record
low after the company said in a regulatory filing on Oct. 26.
that Chief Executive Officer Leonardo Moretzsohn had resigned.  Diageo Talks  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , the Indian whiskey maker controlled by
Vijay Mallya, fell 9 percent, the most in eight months on
speculation that discussions to sell a stake to Diageo Plc may
fall through.  Tongaat Hulett Ltd. (TON)  retreated 4.6 percent, the most in 16
months, after Zimbabwe’s government gave the South African sugar
producer company 14 days to submit a plan to sell a majority
stake in its local operations.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (1171)  slumped to a one-month low in Hong
Kong after posting a quarterly loss, retreating 5 percent. The
company reported a net loss of 79.6 million yuan ($12.7
million), compared with a 1.08 billion yuan profit a year
earlier.  HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-largest smartphone maker, tumbled
by the daily limit of 7 percent in Taipei, after saying revenue
this quarter will be about NT$60 billion ($2.1 billion). That’s
less than the NT$74.6 billion average of 24 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock was the second-worst performer
in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index after United Spirits.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.04
percent, to 292 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  