-- Outokumpu Bid for Inoxum Unit Set to Win EU Approval
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-10-29T16:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/outokumpu-bid-for-inoxum-unit-set-to-win-eu-approval.html
Outokumpu Oyj (OUT1V) ’s bid for  ThyssenKrupp
AG (TKA) ’s Inoxum unit may win European Union approval as soon as next
week following an agreement to sell an Italian steel mill,
according to two people familiar with the regulator’s
preliminary decision.  The European Commission’s proposal to approve the deal with
the company’s commitments was accepted by national competition
authorities last week, said one of the people. This may allow
regulators to approve it at a Nov. 7 meeting, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the merger authorization
process isn’t public.  The steelmaker agreed to buy Inoxum on Jan. 31 in a deal
valuing the German unit at about 2.7 billion euros ($3.5
billion.) The EU sent an antitrust complaint listing possible
competition concerns with the deal in August. It previously
cited worries that the transaction would shrink to three the
number of producers of stainless steel flat products in  Europe .  Outokumpu will add to concessions it made to the European
Commission earlier this month after regulators said it must
offer the plant’s buyer the option of purchasing a bright-
annealing-production line at the plant in Terni, said Saara
Tahvanainen, a spokeswoman for the Espoo, Finland-based company.
She declined to comment on whether the deal would be approved.  “The EU specified their demands and said that it must be
included in the proposal as a buyer’s option,” Tahvanainen said
in a telephone interview. “If the buyer doesn’t want it,
Outokumpu will keep it.”  Year End  ThyssenKrupp expects to complete the transaction by the end
of the year, said Peter Sauer, a spokesman for the company in
Essen. He declined to comment further. Antoine Colombani, a
spokesman for the European Commission, declined to comment.  Outokumpu shares rose as much as 1 percent in Helsinki on
headlines saying the Inoxum deal was set for EU approval. The
shares later declined 1.4 percent to 65 euro cents.  Outokumpu offered to sell Inoxum’s Terni plant and several
European service centers “to ensure the approval” of the
transaction, it said Oct. 9. The pledge excludes a tubular steel
unit in  Italy  and replaces an earlier commitment to sell Swedish
stainless steel units.  Mika Seitovirta, Outokumpu’s chief executive officer, said
last week the company has six months to sell the plant before
the EU can step in and appoint a trustee to manage the
divestment.  “Our firm intention is to keep the pencil in our own hands
here and make the divestment happen during the first six
months,” he said in an Oct. 24 earnings call.  Outokumpu has said the Inoxum purchase, which it plans to
finalize by the end of the year, will result in annual cost
savings of 200 million euros. ThyssenKrupp would retain a 29.9
percent stake in the business, receive 1 billion euros in cash,
and transfer 422 million euros of Inoxum’s liabilities to
Outokumpu.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 