-- Pearson to Merge Penguin With Bertelsmann’s Random House
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-10-29T15:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/pearson-to-merge-penguin-with-bertelsmann-s-random-house.html
Pearson Plc (PSON)  agreed to combine its
Penguin unit with Bertelsmann SE’s Random House to create by far
the largest book publisher in the U.K. and the U.S.  The joint venture, named Penguin Random House and to be
based in New York, will be 53 percent owned by Guetersloh,
Germany-based Bertelsmann, with London-based Pearson holding the
remainder, the companies said today. The venture’s chief
executive officer will be Markus Dohle, now CEO of Random House,
and Penguin CEO John Makinson will be its chairman.  As print sales drop and electronic books give authors
greater control over where their work appears, publishers are
seeking ways to combine to lower costs. Large booksellers, such
as Amazon.com Inc., have gained more negotiating power over
prices. Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp., owner of the HarperCollins
publishing house, has also expressed interest in buying Penguin,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  “The joint company will have more resources to push
forward the digitalization toward the e-book and new
distribution channels,” Bertelsmann CEO Thomas Rabe said in a
phone interview. “We want to increase our exposure to growth
markets. Penguin is well established in  Brazil ,  India  and in
first steps also in  China .”  Smaller Competitors  The venture between 77-year-old Penguin and  87-year-old 
Random House will control about 25 percent of the industry, Rabe
said in a conference call today. The two companies controlled a
combined 29 percent of U.S. publishing sales and 26 percent of
the U.K. market, according to this year’s sales data through
Oct. 6 compiled by Nielsen BookScan.  That would make the venture more than three times bigger
than its nearest competitor HarperCollins in the U.S. and more
than twice as large as French-owned Hachette Group in the U.K.,
according to the data.  Pearson  rose  0.3 percent to 1,224 pence at 3:31 p.m. in
 London , giving the company a market value of 10 billion pounds
($16 billion). Bertelsmann is closely held by the Mohn family,
descendants of Carl Bertelsmann, who founded the company in
1835.  Bertelsmann CEO Rabe, who took over in January, has been
looking for acquisitions to reduce the company’s dependence on
 Europe  and expand its digital businesses. Pearson is seeking to
boost its education unit and has selected that division’s chief,
John Fallon, to succeed CEO Marjorie Scardino, who will step
down by the end of this year.  First Refusal  Bertelsmann isn’t obliged to increase its stake in the
venture should Pearson decide to exit, Rabe said on a conference
call. The German company has the right of first refusal in such
a case, meaning Pearson would have to offer its stake to
Bertelsmann first before approaching other interested parties.  Pearson and Penguin only discussed non-cash combinations,
and an acquisition of one publishing house by the other was
never discussed, Rabe said.  “Pearson was not a seller of Penguin,” Rabe said.  Random House had a boost this year from carrying the
“Fifty Shades of Grey” books, which have spent  32 weeks  on the
New York Times best-sellers list. Penguin carries popular titles
such as the “Diary of a Wimpy Kid” series and “The Help.”  Penguin and Random House had combined sales of about 2.5
billion pounds and operating profit of 272 million pounds last
year. A merger could reduce the publishers’ estimated combined
cost base of 2 billion pounds by 2 percent to 3 percent,
according to  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at Panmure Gordon &
Co. in London.  Pearson will nominate four directors to the venture’s board
and Bertelsmann five.  Regulatory Issues  “Penguin was always going to be a drag on organic growth,
no matter what,” said  Claudio Aspesi , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein Ltd. in London with an “outperform” rating on
Pearson shares. “Pearson through this structure is not able to
totally divorce itself from the risk, but probably this is as
good a deal as they could hope to get.”  Rabe said Bertelsmann had discussed potential regulatory
issues internally and “we are confident that we will get
approval for the transaction in the second half of next year.”
Bertelsmann hasn’t discussed the deal with competition
authorities yet, Rabe said.  No breakup fee is included in the Penguin-Random House
agreement, and the partners are prohibited from selling their
holdings for three years, according to a statement. After five
years, either company can ask to carry out an initial public
offering of the venture.  News Corp. (NWSA)  Bid?  “After five months of detailed discussions both sides are
firmly committed to this transaction and saw no need for” a
breakup fee, said Christian Steinhof, a Bertelsmann spokesman.  Still, this could leave a window of opportunity for rivals.
News Corp.’s HarperCollins has expressed interest in acquiring
Penguin and is preparing an offer for the business, said a
person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions are private. Penguin is valued at 1
billion pounds by News Corp., the Sunday Times reported
yesterday. The newspaper is owned by New York-based News Corp.  Rabe said News Corp. hasn’t contacted him.  “Do you want 1 billion pounds today or potentially 47
percent of an enterprise years down the line?” said DeGroote.
Shareholders would prefer a clean exit from an acquirer, such as
HarperCollins, he said.  Piracy Threat  The venture will exclude Bertelsmann’s trade publishing
business in Germany and Pearson will keep rights to use the
Penguin brand in education titles.  Pearson said  sales  increased 5 percent in the first nine
months of the year, while profit declined 5 percent. The company
reiterated its full-year forecast for growth in sales and profit
at constant exchange rates.  The popularity of e-books will make the industry more
vulnerable to piracy and has led to fewer print sales of some
genres, such as thrillers and romances, Bernstein’s Aspesi said.
Deals such as this give publishers more control over content, he
said.  Other publishers “all probably would have liked to merge
with Penguin and they didn’t understand the urgency,” Aspesi
said. “You can really be very late to the dance floor if you’re
not involved in the first deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  