-- Petrobras Profit Falls as Drilling Costs Rise: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-10-29T19:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/petrobras-profit-falls-as-drilling-costs-rise-corporate-brazil.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s
largest deep-water oil driller, is becoming less profitable as
costs rise faster than sales because of equipment shortages and
falling output.  For every $100 of revenue in the third quarter, Petrobras
had a  gross profit  of $25, down from $32 a year earlier and $40
in the same period of 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Gross margins have fallen on a year-over-year basis
for 11 straight quarters. Petrobras’s shares plunged by the most
in almost three months after the company posted an unexpected
drop in net income on Oct. 26.  The producer, which is investing $236.5 billion as it
develops the Americas’ largest oil finds in more than three
decades, is struggling to contain surging labor and equipment
costs as inflation accelerates after  Brazil ’s central bank cut
 interest rates  to a record low. Petrobras has also faced delays
of more than a year in getting the drilling rigs it needs to tap
deposits trapped under as much as 3,000 meters (9,800 feet) of
salt and rocks below the Atlantic seabed.  “As long as Petrobras is increasing production offshore in
deeper areas, of course that has associated cost increases,”
Ana Paula Ares, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings  who covers Latin
American oil producers, said in a telephone interview from
 Buenos Aires . “Lifting costs at Pemex are almost half that of
Petrobras, because Pemex is on shore and in shallow waters,
while Petrobras is in deep waters.”  Lifting Costs  Rio de Janeiro-based Petrobras reported lifting costs, the
average expense to produce one barrel of oil equivalent, of
$15.42 in the third quarter compared with $13.37 a year earlier.
 Mexico ’s state-run  oil company  Petroleos Mexicanos, known as
Pemex, had lifting cost of $6.12 in 2011, according to the
company’s website.  Petrobras reported in an Oct. 26 regulatory filing that net
income unexpectedly fell 12 percent to 5.57 billion reais ($2.7
billion), or 43 centavos a share, from 6.34 billion, or 49
centavos, a year earlier. The company was expected to report
adjusted profit of 58 centavos a share, the average  estimate  of
seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Petrobras’s total oil and natural gas output fell to 2.47
million barrels a day in September, the lowest since January
2009, as heavy maintenance and declines at existing fields
curbed production. Oil production in Brazil rose in October
after the company began connecting new wells to the Cidade de
Anchieta production vessel, Petrobras said in a presentation
today.  Share Drop  The stock fell 3.4 percent in Sao Paulo trading, after
earlier declining as much as 4.2 percent, the most since Aug. 6.  “We continue working with a determined focus to recover
the profitability of the company,” Chief Executive Officer
Maria das Gracas Foster said in the earnings release. “We’re
directing our best efforts at developing production.”  Shares have lost 3.1 percent for investors this year before
today in U.S. dollar terms, the fourth worst performance by a
global oil company with a market value of more than $50 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Colombia ’s Ecopetrol SA
returned 54 percent, while Cnooc Ltd. registered a 22 percent
return, the data show.  Higher Rates  Operators of drilling rigs are charging higher rates as
demand for new deep-water equipment increases and the labor
market tightens, said Bloomberg Industries analyst Christian O’Neill. Costs are also rising as Brazilian inflation
accelerated for a third month to 5.28 percent in September.  “Given the shortage of labor and materials, and the
specialization that’s required, naturally you’re going to put
upward pressure on costs,” O’Neill said in a telephone
interview from  New Jersey . “That’s an industry-wide phenomenon
when you go into specialized deep-water offshore type of
projects.”  Petrobras, which operates the largest fleet of production
platforms of any oil company, plans to triple its drilling
vessels by 2020. The producer had an average delivery delay of
542 days for 10 rigs built outside of Brazil and delivered in
2011, according to the 2012-2016 business plan it released June
14.  ‘Technical Breakthroughs’  Diamond Offshore Drilling (DO)  Inc. Senior Vice President Gary Krenek said on an Oct. 18 conference call that the Houston-based
drilling contractor will save $40,000 a day in operating costs
by moving a rig out of Brazil.  Noble Corp. (NE)  Chief Executive
Officer David Williams said on another call that same day that
the Swiss driller “happily” doesn’t have any big new projects
in Brazil lined up.  As Petrobras gains knowledge of the conditions in the so-
called pre-salt region in coming years, it will improve
technology and become more efficient to reduce the costs of
these projects, said Cleveland Jones, an oil specialist and
geology professor at Rio de Janeiro State University.  “There are a lot of technical breakthroughs that will make
these original project estimates conservative,” Jones said by
telephone from Rio de Janeiro. “I don’t think it’s fully being
accounted for.”  While the bulk of the rigs in Brazil are built and operated
by foreign companies such as Noble and Diamond, the Brazilian
government is pushing to increase the amount of locally
manufactured rigs. Petrobras needs to purchase as much as 70
percent of its equipment from domestic suppliers to meet
mandates set by former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva .  Shipbuilder Delays  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , the shipbuilder controlled by billionaire
 Eike Batista , built its first platform outside of Brazil and has
plans to construct the second and third vessels at sites abroad
after its shipyard in the state of Rio de Janeiro was delayed.  Petrobras has missed  output goals  for at least the past
eight years as production from its deep-water discoveries failed
to compensate for faster-than-expected declines at older fields
in Brazil’s offshore Campos Basin. The company, which forecasts
its output to remain little changed through the end of 2013, has
a track record of missing project deadlines as requirements to
purchase goods and services from local suppliers contribute to
delays, its CEO said on June 25 when presenting the company’s
five-year investment plan to investors and analysts.  “You’re spending the capital up front but don’t really
have the production to show for it yet,” Bloomberg Industries’
O’Neill said. “That’s going to put pressure on the operating
metrics of the company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  