-- Philippines’ Credit Rating Boosted by Moody’s to Ba1
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2012-10-29T14:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/philippines-rating-raised-by-moody-s-as-investment-grade-nears.html
(Corrects 10th paragraph to remove reference in Moody’s
quote of Mindanao being largest island.)  The  Philippines ’ debt rating was
raised to the highest level since the start of 2004 by Moody’s
Investors Service, bringing the Southeast Asian nation one step
away from investment grade. The peso and bonds rose.  The country’s foreign and local currency long-term bond
ratings were upgraded to Ba1 from Ba2, Moody’s said in a
statement today. That brings the Philippines on par with Turkey
and  Hungary . The ratings outlook is stable.  “The writing is clearly on the wall,” said Roberto Juanchito Dispo, president of  First Metro Investment Corp. (FMIC) , one
of the arrangers of the government’s record retail bond sale
this month. “The Philippines is definitely on its way to
becoming investment grade in due course. This will bring
numerous tangible economic benefits to the country.”  President Benigno Aquino has won ratings upgrades as he
takes steps to contain the budget deficit and lure foreign
investors to spur expansion in the $225 billion economy.
Standard & Poor’s in July raised the debt rating to BB+, one
level below investment grade, citing improved prospects for
growth, while an agreement with Muslim rebels this month to end
a four-decade insurgency in the mineral-rich south has boosted
the country’s appeal.  Peso Gains  The peso erased losses, gaining 0.1 percent to 41.177 per
dollar as of 2:06 p.m. in  Manila , according to data from Tullett
Prebon Plc. It is the top gainer this year among the 11 most-
widely traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Philippine
dollar-denominated bonds maturing in January 2037 rose after the
upgrade, halting a four-day slide. The yield on 5 percent bonds
fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.78 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Improved economic performance and continued fiscal
revenue buoyancy in the face of deteriorating global demand”
led to the upgrade, Moody’s said in a statement. “In contrast
to similarly rated countries, the country is poised to record a
combination of faster growth, lower  inflation , exchange rate
appreciation, and an increase in foreign exchange reserves,
while maintaining trend debt consolidation,” it said.  Aquino is taking steps to reduce corruption while seeking
more than $16 billion of investments in roads and airports to
spur expansion to as much as 7 percent in 2013 to create jobs
and reduce poverty.  Gross domestic product  rose 5.9 percent in
the second quarter from 6.3 percent in the previous three
months, which was the fastest expansion in Southeast Asia.  “This is another affirmation of the economic agenda of
President Aquino,” Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said in a
mobile text message today. “Good governance indeed is good
economics. We will continue to focus on the fundamentals of
fiscal sustainability and business environment enhancement.”  Beneficial Effects  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas last week cut its  overnight
borrowing rate  by 0.25 percentage point to a record 3.5 percent,
bringing the total reduction in 2012 to 1 point. An investment-
grade rating is possible next year, Governor Amando Tetangco
told reporters today.  “Over the longer term, the landmark peace agreement signed
between the government and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front may
have wider beneficial effects on investment and economic growth
in Mindanao,” which has untapped agricultural and mining
potential, Moody’s said.  The central bank lowered its inflation forecast for this
year to 3.3 percent from 3.4 percent, and to 3.9 percent from
4.1 percent next year. Inflation unexpectedly eased in September
to 3.6 percent from a year earlier.  Today’s upgrade contrasts with recent actions on other
Asian nations.  Vietnam ’s government bond rating was cut last
month by Moody’s for the first time since 2010 as the nation
grapples with rising bad debt in its banking system that has
hurt growth, while S&P said this month  India  may lose its
investment-grade rating within the next 24 months if growth
slows and political opposition to policy overhauls increases.  “A stable outlook signals possible further upgrades in the
future,” central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Gunigundo said in a
mobile text message. “The challenge for us is to sustain what
we have been doing in strengthening the macro economy and
enhancing good governance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  