-- Poland Renewables Bill to Forge New Solar Market as EU Cuts Back
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-10-29T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/poland-renewables-bill-to-forge-new-solar-market-as-eu-cuts-back.html
Poland  is set to approve renewable-
energy laws that may spur a 100-fold increase in solar-power
capacity next year, just as the rest of Europe scales back.  The country that has 3 megawatts of solar capacity may
build as much as 400 megawatts next year if the renewables bill
comes into effect on schedule in January, said Stanislaw
Pietruszko, the head of Poland’s photovoltaic association.
Neighboring Germany has 30,000 megawatts installed.  The east European nation is seeking to lure investors that
have turned away from Germany,  Italy  and the U.K. after cash-
strapped governments cut subsidies for clean-energy projects.
Poland, which gets about 85 percent of its power from coal-fired
plants, is poised to join Ukraine in offering some of  Europe ’s
highest solar subsidies as its economy grows.  “The proposed rates are very good, higher than those in
Germany,” Pietruszko, who is president of the  Polish Society
for Photovoltaics , said in an interview.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s government is seeking to
double the share of energy provided by clean sources by 2020 and
plans to triple support for large solar plants through a green-
certificate program starting in January, the final draft of the
bill shows. It will also introduce feed-in tariffs, or premium
rates paid for renewable power, for small projects.  Government Plan  The government proposes paying tariffs of as much as 1.30
zloty (41 cents) for projects of less than 100 kilowatts until
2027. Larger plants will qualify for as many as 2.85 green
certificates per megawatt-hour over 15 years. Each tradable
certificate, which utilities are obliged to buy, averaged 248.6
zloty a megawatt-hour last month.  “If effective from January, the tariffs could lead to at
least 300 to 400 megawatts in applications for plants that could
be built by year-end,” Pietruszko said.  Poland, which has already developed a wind-power market
with about 2,300 megawatts in capacity, has no utility-scale
photovoltaic plants operating even though its solar radiation is
similar to that in Germany, Europe’s largest solar market.  German developers such as Gehrlicher Solar AG and  Conergy
AG (CGYK)  are preparing to tap the Polish market once the new rules
come into effect. Chinese companies are also “on the starting
blocks,” according to Pietruszko.  “The Polish market will definitely be very interesting
once feed-in tariffs and green certificates are approved,”
Antje Stephan, a spokeswoman for Hamburg-based Conergy, said by
e-mail. “We’ve already started establishing our local
network.”  Stable Economy  Poland is “interesting” given its proximity to Germany,
its political and economic stability and high prices for
electricity, said Stefanie Biala, Gehrlicher Solar’s director of
project development.  Some investors aren’t waiting for the energy legislation to
be approved. Unam, a Polish maker of metal tools, is about to
start building a 70-megawatt solar park in Zlotow. It will begin
preliminary work on the project next month for local developer
Smart Eco-Wind, said Anna Jarka, a spokeswoman for Unam.  Poland’s Economy Ministry said it aims to approve the
renewables bill along with two others for energy and gas by
January. The draft has been sent to a government committee and
needs to be approved by the whole Cabinet before being sent to
the parliament, Iwona Dzygala, an Economy Ministry spokeswoman,
said by phone. “Our priority is that draft comes into force
next year,” she said.  Delay Possible  The bundling of three bills probably will lead to a delay
that could push back the legislation until the middle of 2013,
said Pietruszko.  Feed-in tariffs led to a boom in renewables projects in
European countries such as Germany, the U.K., the Czech Republic
and  Spain . Poland is following the example of Britain, which
introduced a dual system of green certificates and premium-rate
tariffs. Romania is one of few European countries to use
certificates only.  “Many expect a delay to the introduction of the law to as
late as January 2014,” said Martin Simonek, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London . “However, the market is
already buzzing with developers securing land and permits. So
once it’s approved, if terms remain favorable, we’ll see a surge
in installations.”  Some of the rules in the draft would establish a stable
solar market, he said. These include a renewables surcharge akin
to that in Germany, requiring consumers to cover the higher
prices utilities need to pay for clean electricity, and fixed
annual cuts for solar tariffs of 5.5 percent.  ‘Catch Fire’  “The proposals will definitely ignite a new solar market,
even if it may be slow to catch fire properly for large-scale
projects due to slow permitting,” Simonek said. “The returns
available and the proximity to experienced developers and
contractors in  Germany  should allow for several hundred
megawatts per year, at the very least.”  While the latest draft introduces a 10-megawatt limit on
solar plants, there’s no cap on total installations. The Economy
Ministry has forecast 50 megawatts of solar capacity in the
first year and 600 megawatts by 2020, according to the
photovoltaic association.  “The ministry expects 50 megawatts, but in my opinion it
will be much, much more,” Pietruszko said. “This capacity will
go immediately and I don’t know what the ministry will do if
installed capacity exceeds 50 megawatts next year.”  The government and industry will have to work together to
avoid a boom-and-bust scenario like those seen in the  Czech
Republic  and Spain, he said. Costs and subsidy cuts in much of
Europe will compound the effect of the financial crisis to
reduce the pace of installations in most countries next year,
according to New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  