-- Gilts Advance as BOE Damps Optimism on U.K. Economy; Pound Slips
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-10-29T16:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/pound-weakens-versus-dollar-after-home-prices-decline-in-october.html
U.K. government bonds advanced for a
second day as speculation that Britain’s economy will require
further stimulus lifted demand for the safest assets.  Ten-year yields fell to a two-week low as Bank of England
Deputy Governor Charles Bean cautioned against over-optimism
following third-quarter gross domestic product data. Policy
makers will decide Nov. 8 whether to increase bond purchases, or
quantitative easing, to boost the economy. German bunds rose as
Spain’s Premier Mariano Rajoy said he will request a bailout
when he judges it’s in the nation’s interests. The pound
weakened versus the dollar and the euro.  “Gilts are tracking the move in German bunds today as
there continues to be uncertainty over a Spanish aid request,”
said Sam Hill, a fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada
in  London . “Comments over the weekend from BOE’s Bean have
helped balance out the anti-QE rhetoric that prevailed last
week. That is helping gilts to keep up with bunds.”  U.K. 10-year yields dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.80 percent at 4:12 p.m. London time, the
least since Oct. 16. The 1.75 percent gilt maturing September
2022 advanced 0.575, or 5.75 pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,605)
face amount, to 99.52.  Raise Target  Hill said RBC stuck by its forecast for the Bank of England
to raise its asset-purchase target by 50 billion pounds to 425
billion pounds next month.  U.K. gross domestic product expanded 1 percent in the three
months through September from the previous period, the fastest
growth since 2007, the Office for National Statistics said on
Oct. 25. That exceeded the highest estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey for a 0.8 percent increase.  The figures were “stronger than we expected, but we should
avoid getting over-excited,” Bean said in an interview with Sky
News television yesterday. “It’s quite possible that we see
weak growth in the next quarter. The big picture is of an
economy that’s been bumping along the bottom.”  The strongest growth in five years last week prompted
economists at Barclays Plc and Investec Securities to abandon
forecasts for the Bank of England to boost its bond-buying
program next month.  Overseas investors increased their holdings of U.K.
government bonds for a third month in September, according to
Bank of England data.  Increased Holdings  Non-residents bought 1.84 billion pounds more gilts than
they sold last month, after raising their holdings by 5.57
billion pounds in August, the data showed.  Spain has yet to request a bailout that would trigger
European Central Bank purchases of its debt. The plan, unveiled
by ECB President Mario Draghi last month, is designed to draw a
line under the region’s debt crisis.  “As soon as I think that it’s good for the general
interests of Spain to ask for it I will ask for it,” Rajoy said
today at a joint press conference with  Italy ’s Prime Minister
Mario Monti in  Madrid . “While I don’t think that, I won’t.”  The U.K. Debt Management Office is scheduled to auction 1.5
billion pounds of three-year debt tomorrow. The 4.75 percent
gilt due in September 2015 being sold yielded 0.27 percent in
secondary-market trading. The U.K. last sold three-year
securities on May 19, 2011, at an average yield of 1.456
percent.  Gilts returned 2.4 percent this year through Oct. 26,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds gained
2.8 percent and U.S. Treasuries earned 1.8 percent.  Pound Falls  The pound fell for a second day against the dollar after an
industry report showed house prices in England and  Wales  dropped
for a fourth month in October.  Home prices  declined 0.1 percent from September and 0.4
percent from a year earlier, Hometrack Ltd., a London-based
property research group, said in an e-mailed statement. U.K.
mortgage approvals rose to 50,000 last month from 47,700 in
August, a separate report showed.  An  index  of retail sales compiled by the Confederation of
British Industry climbed to 8 in October from 6 a month earlier,
according to the median forecast of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. The report is scheduled for release at 11 a.m. London
time tomorrow.  The pound declined 0.5 percent to $1.6019 after gaining 0.6
percent last week. Sterling weakened 0.2 percent to 80.52 pence
per euro after touching 80.02 pence on Oct. 26, the strongest
since Oct. 3.  The U.K. currency will end the year at $1.61 and 80 pence
per euro, according to median estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  The pound has risen 1.8 percent this year according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The euro weakened 2.3 percent and
the dollar dropped 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  