-- Prague Diners Find Appetite for Fine Food Without Ramsay
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-10-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/prague-diners-find-appetite-for-fine-food-after-ramsay-s-exit.html
When  Gordon Ramsay  abandoned his
Maze restaurant in Prague after barely a year, many saw it as
evidence the Czech capital wasn’t ready for the sophistication
and the price tag that comes with a culinary master.  How things can change in three short years.  Today, the city is home to two restaurants with Michelin
stars -- both headed by Czech chefs -- and six venues with a Bib
Gourmand. Tourists may still come for the beer and the Old Town
rather than for fine dining, but there’s no question Prague now
has something to offer in terms of great food.  “Prague gastronomy is experiencing an enormous boom,”
said chef Roman Paulus, whose Radisson Blu Alcron restaurant
received its first star this year. “I feel really lucky to be
in my most productive age now, because I have the unique chance
to help create the new school of Czech haute cuisine, rather
than follow in someone else’s footsteps.”  Decades of communist rule in the former  Czechoslovakia  took
their toll both on the culture of dining and on the quality of
ingredients. Land appropriation, followed by the creation of
cooperatives in the 1950s, wiped out small farmers and shifted
focus solely on quantity.  By the time the regime collapsed in 1989, the country was a
culinary wasteland dominated by greasy sausages, rubbery
dumplings and deep-fried cheese. It took Czechs two decades to
start appreciating quality food again, said Paulus, who honed
his skills at the Savoy in  London  and the Hilton Vienna Plaza.  Dancing Couples  Czechs represent more than 60 percent of Alcron’s patrons.
That’s a shift from the days when the expensive restaurant,
whose Art Deco interior is adorned by  Tamara de Lempicka ’s
dancing couples, was frequented mostly by well-heeled tourists.
Paulus said he tries to use as much local produce as possible,
helping to revive small-scale production of quality ingredients.  “It’s still a far cry from France or  Germany , where
farmers weren’t trampled by the communists,” he said. “But
farmers are beginning to understand that mass production is no
longer profitable, and they’d better concentrate on quality.”  Ordinary Czechs are increasingly willing to pay a little
extra for quality, said Tomas Vesela, a representative of
Bohaemer Spargel Kultur, which specializes in growing asparagus.  “People are finally becoming respectful of good produce,”
he said. “Czechs used to shun quality because of the price, but
no more.”  Bohemian Bourgeoisie  Top-notch seasonal local produce is also at the heart of
the success of La Degustation Boheme Bourgeoise, the other
Prague restaurant that earned a star this year. Chef Oldrich
Sahajdak draws inspiration from a 19th-century cookbook written
by Marie B. Svobodova.  Sahajdak showcases the Czech terroir. A recent seven-course
menu included cold smoked south Bohemian trout with buttermilk,
fennel, chives and trout eggs; a south-Bohemian catfish in
Moravian sparkling-wine sauce; a rabbit with juniper and
beetroot essence; and the pungent, fermented olomoucke tvaruzky
cheese.  The Czechs still have a long way to go, according to Pavel
Maurer, the founder of the annual  Prague  Food Festival, who
publishes a “Top 100” list of Czech restaurants. The really
good restaurants are too expensive for most people, while most
of the cheap ones compromise on quality, he said.  “What we’re missing is the middle tier, the affordable but
good bistros,” Maurer said. “The problem is that we don’t yet
have a strong, affluent middle class, and even wealthy people
aren’t necessarily willing to spend money on food. It’s about
culture. We need to rebuild it from scratch.”  Still, the proliferation of cooking TV shows, food events
and culinary courses indicate that a growing number of Czechs is
once again taking interest in what’s on their plate.  “It’s true that a typical Czech still wants a full plate
for as little money as possible,” Maurer said. “But there is a
growing group of mostly young foodies who love good cooking, and
that warms my heart.”  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and
 Martin Gayford  on London art shows.  (Ladka Bauerova is a reporter for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 