-- Premier Foods Advances on Report of Potential Sale: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-10-29T17:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/premier-foods-advances-on-report-of-potential-sale-london-mover.html
Premier Foods Plc (PFD) , owner of the
Hovis bread and Bisto gravy brands, rose to the highest in four
months in London trading after a report it may invite offers.  The shares rose 11 percent, the second-biggest advance on
the FTSE All-Share Index today. Private-equity firms have been
approached about a possible 1.2 billion-pound ($1.92 billion)
takeover of Premier Foods, the Sunday Telegraph reported
yesterday. The idea was floated as a “fallback position” to
Premier Foods’s restructuring strategy, the newspaper reported.
The Sunday Telegraph cited a source it didn’t identify.  “If anyone was willing to offer eight or nine times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
for a part of the business, I think that would weigh heavily
against any strategic consideration,”  Martin Deboo , an analyst
at  Investec Plc (INVP) , said in telephone interview. “Despite 275
million pounds of disposals in the last six months, Premier’s
leverage ratio hasn’t changed much.”  The disposals have left Premier Foods’ ratio of net debt to
Ebitda unchanged at about 5.5 times, said Deboo. Premier Foods
is selling assets to cut debt and today said it completed the
 sale  of a spreads and jellies unit including Hartley’s jam and
Frank Cooper marmalade for 200 million pounds.  Premier Foods climbed 10 pence to 101.5 pence, the highest
closing price since June 1. That extended the advance to
75 percent this year, giving the company a market value of
243 million pounds. The volume of shares traded was about triple
the three-month daily average.  Company Debt  The company had  net debt  of 1.27 billion pounds at June 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Premier Foods said in August that the disposal of the
spreads division would bring the total from divestitures to 275
million pounds from a target of 330 million pounds by June 2014.  Premier Foods,  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF)  and Warburtons
Ltd., a closely held family business, control close to 90
percent of the U.K. bread market, according to Deboo. Warburtons
and ABF would face major competition barriers to owning Hovis,
he said.  The company might be of interest to private-equity buyers
if the strategic bind represented by the bread business can be
resolved, Deboo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net ; 