-- Presidential Vote Count Could Be Delayed in a Close Ohio
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-10-29T13:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/presidential-vote-count-could-be-delayed-in-a-close-ohio.html
With polls showing a tightening U.S.
presidential contest in  Ohio , there’s a chance for what
elections officials call the “nightmare scenario”: The race
comes down to Ohio on election night, and the election can’t be
called for days.  That could happen if the margin of votes in Ohio were
significantly less than the number of provisional ballots cast.
These ballots are cast by voters who show up at the polls and
have moved residences and haven’t updated their registration, or
who don’t appear in the polling-place books. Provisional ballots
are held for 10 days to verify voter eligibility.  Senator  John Kerry , the 2004 Democratic presidential
nominee, waited to concede to President-elect  George W. Bush 
that year until he was persuaded that the outstanding
provisional ballots in Ohio wouldn’t change the outcome.  The potential for a close vote in Ohio on Nov. 6 raises the
specter of a fight like the 2000 dispute in  Florida  over flawed
ballots -- this time, a battle over whether provisional ballots
in the Buckeye State are valid and should be counted.  “The odds probably are not higher than 50-50 that it will
happen, but as the race tightens and as Ohio becomes more
central to the final results, the odds creep up,” said  Paul Beck , a political scientist at  Ohio State University . “It’s now
something that I think we really need to think about.”  Close Contest  An Ohio newspaper poll released yesterday showed the race
between President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  deadlocked at 49 percent. The poll was conducted by the
University of Cincinnati’s Institute for Policy Research for
Ohio’s eight largest newspapers.  There were 206,859 provisional ballots cast in Ohio in the
2008 election, of which 81 percent were counted, according to
Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted’s office. There were 105,195
provisional ballots issued in 2010, with 89 percent counted.  The number of provisional ballots could be reduced this
year by a Husted initiative to update addresses on voter
registrations, according to Aaron Ockerman, a spokesman for the
Ohio Association of Election Officials in Columbus.  They also could increase because every Ohio voter received
an application for an absentee ballot this year, and if voters
request one and don’t return it, they would cast a provisional
ballot on Election Day, Ockerman said.  “It’s kind of nightmare scenario, but so many things would
have to wrong for that to be the case,” Ockerman said.  While directors of Ohio’s largest county elections boards
also say they aren’t overly concerned about the prospect at this
point, Amy Searcy, director of the Hamilton County Board of
Elections in Cincinnati, offered a version of the elections
supervisor’s prayer: “I don’t care who wins, just make them win
by a lot.”  Republican Governor  John Kasich  said on “Meet the Press”
yesterday he thinks Romney will carry Ohio and that provisional
ballots won’t decide the race.  “It’s going to be very close,” Kasich said. “But yes, I
do think that we will know before the end of the night.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  