-- Progress’ Petronas Sale Fails to Die as Deal Odds Rise
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-10-30T20:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/progress-petronas-sale-fails-to-die-as-deal-odds-rise.html
Traders are regaining confidence
that  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ) , battered last week after
the Canadian government blocked its takeover by  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd., will get bought after all.  The natural-gas producer based in Calgary added 7.9 percent
yesterday to C$19.81, the biggest rally since July, as Petroliam
Nasional, known as Petronas, extended the deadline for
completing the C$5.2 billion ($5.2 billion) deal to Nov. 30. For
Bank of Nova Scotia, the delay is a sign the state-owned
enterprise wants to negotiate with the Canadian government,
which requires foreign takeovers to benefit the nation.  While Progress Energy sank 15 percent last week after the
rejection, Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  did say
Petronas can try to persuade government officials to reconsider.
The  narrowing  difference between Progress Energy’s price and the
C$22-a-share offer implies odds the bid will succeed rose to
about 75 percent from 60 percent, said Westchester Capital
Management Inc. Even after yesterday’s rally, traders willing to
stomach the risk can still earn 11 percent if the agreement
closes, or four times more than the median spread for pending
Canadian deals, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It looks like the parties are saying the right things,
and, as a result, people have become more optimistic,” Roy Behren, who co-manages the $4.7 billion  Merger Fund (MERFX)  at
Westchester Capital, said in a telephone interview from
Valhalla,  New York . “Given the body language of the merging
parties, it appears that they’re committed to try and work at
getting the deal done,” he said. If the deal succeeds, traders
holding the stock “are going to make the money.”  Net Benefit  Greg Kist, a spokesman for Progress Energy, declined to
comment on the deal’s prospects. Azman Ibrahim, a spokesman for
Kuala Lumpur-based Petronas, didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment outside normal business hours.  Progress Energy fell 9.3 percent to C$19.64 on Oct. 22
after Canadian Minister of Industry Christian Paradis blocked
the deal late on Oct. 19, saying the proposal wasn’t in the
nation’s best interests. The Investment  Canada  Act requires
foreign takeovers to provide a net benefit to the country.  Six
factors  are considered, such as the effect on jobs, competition
within an industry, the degree of participation by Canadians in
the business and Canada’s ability to compete globally.  The same test prompted officials to block BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s 2010 purchase of Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
Petronas can still negotiate with government officials to
salvage its rejected agreement, Flaherty said Oct. 21.  Satisfying Concerns  “I’m sure they will continue to work on it,” the finance
minister said during an interview with the CTV television
network. “There is another period of time during which they can
continue to have discussions and try to satisfy the concerns
that the department of industry has.”  Yesterday, Petronas and Progress Energy issued a statement
saying they extended the deal’s deadline to the end of November
from Oct. 31, prompting the surge in Progress Energy’s shares.
Both companies have both met with officials at  Industry Canada 
to gain clarity on the government’s opposition, and Petronas
plans to make “further submissions” to the government in a bid
to win approval, according to yesterday’s statement.  Progress Energy’s stock rose because the statement showed
the companies’ continued commitment to the transaction and gave
investors renewed optimism it can close, Catharine Sterritt, a
Toronto-based risk arbitrage strategist at Bank of  Nova Scotia ,
said in a phone interview. She estimated a 70 percent chance
that Petronas will get the regulatory approval it needs.  ‘Still Interested’  “We view this announcement positively as this indicates
that Petronas is still interested in completing the transaction
and is going to cooperate to address Industry Canada’s
concerns,” Stacey McDonald, a GMP Securities LP analyst, wrote
in a note to clients yesterday. Petronas’s “intention to stay
involved was a key hurdle and in our view the extension
increases the probability that it will submit another bid.”  Petronas has 30 days past the government’s Oct. 19
rejection to resubmit the deal for approval, Paradis said in a
statement a week and a half ago.  Cnooc Ltd.,  China ’s largest offshore oil producer, is also
awaiting approval from Canada for its $15.1 billion purchase of
Nexen Inc. To appease the government, Cnooc pledged to locate
its North and Central American headquarters in Calgary, retain
Nexen’s employees and management, enhance the company’s planned
capital expenditures in Canada, and expand charitable programs.  Attractive Spread  While the gap between Progress Energy’s stock price and the
C$22 bid from Petronas has narrowed after reaching its widest
point last week, the spread is still attractive, Sterritt said.  “We continue to like it,” she said. “The next event
we’re going to be focused on is what happens during the 30-day
notice period that they’re currently in with respect to the
Investment Canada net-benefit test. We believe the transaction
makes a lot of sense and that they’re highly likely to be able
to meet the net-benefit test.”  Should the acquisition succeed, traders who bet on mergers
and acquisitions would get an 11 percent return from the stock’s
closing level yesterday. The median spread among pending
Canadian deals is 2.8 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Today, the stock rose 0.4 percent to C$19.89.  Without a deal,  Progress Energy  shares may drop to about
C$14, Steve Toth, an analyst at Canaccord Financial Inc., wrote
in a report yesterday. That’s a 29 percent decline from
yesterday’s closing price.  Still, the market is implying that the odds are in
Petronas’s favor, Westchester Capital’s Behren said.  “You don’t know what’s going on behind closed doors,” he
said. “But it’s heading in the right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  