-- Rajoy Faces Bailout Split With Monti at Madrid Meeting
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-10-29T16:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/rajoy-faces-bailout-split-with-monti-at-madrid-meeting.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
and his Spanish counterpart Mariano Rajoy tried to mask a
growing divide over  Europe ’s new bailout strategy by emphasizing
their commitment to the timetable for banking union.  While both urged their European partners to meet a year-end
deadline to establish a single banking supervisor, strains
emerged when a Spanish reporter asked Monti whether he would
request a bailout alongside Rajoy. The Italian premier pushed
back against formalizing ties between the nations and signaled
Spain will probably have to go it alone in negotiations with the
gatekeepers of Europe’s rescue money.  “The collaboration with Spain has been very useful, same
as with  France , but also with  Germany ,” Monti said at a joint
press conference in  Madrid  today. “Without prejudice to the
decision of any other country, we don’t believe  Italy  is in a
condition to need to” ask for help.  European officials are waiting for Spain to trigger a
bailout plan unveiled by European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  last month and designed to draw a line under the region’s
debt crisis. Monti would probably benefit from lower borrowing
costs if Spain brought the ECB into play, while leaving Rajoy to
weather the political flak of seeking emergency funds.  ‘Jiggery Pokery’  “This is a little bit of jiggery pokery between Europe’s
two big problem countries,”  George Magnus , senior economic
adviser at UBS AG in  London , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview before the press conference. “Structurally, Spain is
still deteriorating. Its funding position will become much more
difficult in 2013 as the investor base begins to fade away.”  Spanish and Italian bonds fell today. The yield on 10-year
Spanish debt rose 7 basis points to 5.66 percent at 4:28 p.m. in
Madrid while Italian  10-year yields  advanced 10 basis points to
5 percent. The current Spanish yield exceeds the 4.48 percent
average over the past decade.  Rajoy stood up to those, including Monti, who have leaned
on him in recent weeks to request aid and tried to play up the
support of his Italian counterpart.  “As soon as I think it’s good for the general interests of
 Spain  to ask for it I will ask for it; while I don’t think that,
I won’t,” he said. “Spain and Italy are more united than
ever.”  Monti repeated the idea he raised on Oct. 23 that the
European crisis-fighting effort would benefit from the startup
of the ECB’s bond-buying program.  Timing Guesses  “It’s very important, now that the guidelines have been
laid out, that this instrument works and it’s not just a
theoretical solution,” he said. “We don’t think Italy has to
activate this.”  With more than 200 billion euros ($258 billion) of
financing needed in 2013, Rajoy will probably request aid by the
end of the year, says Tullia Bucco, an economist at  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  in Milan.  Blackrock Inc. (BLK)  Chairman  Larry Fink  said on Oct. 26
he expects Rajoy will cave in this week.  Rajoy has already asked European partners for as much as
100 billion euros to prop up banks hobbled by the collapse of
the country’s real-estate bubble. The resulting recession has
pushed the  jobless rate  to 25 percent.  The Bank of Spain’s deputy governor, Fernando Restoy, today
set out plans for establishing a bad bank, ordered by the
European Union as a condition of the rescue.  Greek Woes  Spain’s benchmark  10-year bond  yield has fallen more than
200 basis points since its peak of 7.75 percent in August, just
before Draghi vowed to do whatever it takes to save the euro.  As Spain debates whether to seek a rescue, officials are
still struggling to find a solution for  Greece , the epicenter of
Europe’s crisis. In the fifth year of recession, Greek leaders
are trying to agree on labor reforms and other structural
changes in a bid to qualify for more aid under a rescue that has
included the biggest write-off of privately held debt.  Euro-region finance ministers will hold a conference call
on Greece on Oct. 31, and  Der Spiegel  reported yesterday that
that the troika -- the ECB, the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Commnission -- proposed a restructuring that would
require public-sector lenders to take losses.  Imposing a further write-off on Greek creditors would be
“a bit unrealistic,” Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
German radio Deutschlandfunk on Oct. 28.  German officials are trying to damp down the prospect of
more money for Greece as voters question the wisdom of the
latest drive to end the crisis. Draghi, who visited Germany’s
parliament last week to defend his bond-purchase plan, used an
interview with Spiegel to follow up that diplomatic initiative.  “Unlimited does not mean uncontrolled,” he said in the
interview released yesterday. “We will only buy bonds from
those countries that accept strict conditions, and we will check
very carefully whether those conditions are adhered to.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  