-- RBI Signals Inflation Needs to Ease to Boost Rate-Cut Scope
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-10-29T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/rbi-says-it-may-have-space-to-aid-growth-if-prices-deficit-ebb.html
Indian  monetary policy  may have
space in future to support growth if price pressures ease and
fiscal and trade deficits narrow, even as caution is needed for
now to focus on inflation, the nation’s central bank said.  “Monetary policy needs to be cautious in the interim,
focusing on inflation while using the available space to support
growth to the degree it can,” the  Reserve Bank  of  India  said in
a  report  yesterday ahead of its interest-rate decision in Mumbai
today. If threats from inflation and the deficits recede
further, that “could yield space down the line for monetary
policy to respond to growth concerns,” it said.  Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said yesterday
India seeks to pare the budget shortfall to a near decade-low by
2017, after earlier this month calling for cheaper credit to
back a policy revamp that included fuel-subsidy curbs. The
central bank said further measures are necessary to contain the
fiscal imbalance, adding there remains a risk India’s inflation
rate of almost 8 percent may accelerate in the short term.  “The central bank will oblige only when inflation comes
down,” said  Indranil Pan , chief economist at  Kotak Mahindra
Bank Ltd. (KMB)  in Mumbai. The comments indicate “they may do a token
cut in the  cash reserve ratio  to lower the cost of funds for
banks and support the economy.”  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao will leave the repurchase rate at
8 percent for a fourth meeting, 19 of 33 economists said in a
Bloomberg News survey before the policy decision, while 13
predict a cut to 7.75 percent and one to 7.5 percent.  Interest Rates  Nineteen of 33 analysts in another survey estimate the
central bank will reduce banks’ reserve requirements for the
fourth time this year, to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent, to spur
lending. Four expect 4 percent and the rest no change.  The rupee has strengthened 2.5 percent against the dollar
since Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration began the
policy overhaul on Sept. 13, paring its drop in the past year to
9.8 percent. It fell 0.9 percent yesterday to 54.0725 per dollar
at the close in Mumbai, while the BSE India Sensitive Index of
stocks rose 0.1 percent. The yield on the 10-year bonds due June
2022 was little changed at 8.13 percent.  “Recent policy measures have reduced macroeconomic risks,
but speedy implementation and sustained reforms are important
for turning the economy around,” the central bank said. Steps
such as the push to curb spending on fuel subsidies “are
welcome but are less than adequate to avert fiscal slippage in
2012-13. Further steps will need to be taken soon,” it said.  Growth Slowdown  The economy may expand 5.7 percent in the year through
March 2013, based on a compilation of forecasts from other
organizations, yesterday’s report showed. July’s survey
projected 6.5 percent growth. Inflation may average 7.7 percent,
the survey said, compared with an earlier 7.3 percent estimate.  The government last month raised diesel prices about 14
percent and limited supplies of subsidized cooking gas. It also
opened industries such as retail to more investment from abroad,
snapping months of gridlock over how to bolster growth.  Singh is trying to narrow the widest  fiscal shortfall  in
major  emerging markets  to avert a credit-rating downgrade.  The government will aim for a gap of 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product in the year that began April 1, 4.8 percent by
March 2014 and 3 percent in the 12 months through March 2017,
Chidambaram said in  New Delhi  yesterday as he outlined goals for
fiscal consolidation.  ‘Political Pressure’  The weakest stretch of economic growth since the 2009
global recession has hurt tax revenues even as subsidies stoke
spending, exacerbating the deficit.  Standard & Poor’s  predicts
it will widen to about 6 percent in the current fiscal year.  “The fiscal road map is a step in the right direction, but
it lacks detail,” said  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Mumbai.  Indian inflation quickened to 7.81 percent in September,
the fastest pace in 10 months, stoked by food and fuel prices
and supply congestion caused by choked roads and ports. Further
currency gains will help damp costs, Chidambaram said on Oct.
12, adding “ interest rates  must come down.”  While near-term price risks are on the upside, inflation
should start moderating in the three months through March next
year, the Reserve Bank said. It has previously said the comfort
zone for inflation may be about 5 percent.  Countries from  Brazil  to  Thailand  have cut borrowing costs
this month as  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on the world economy.
Subbarao lowered rates in April by 50 basis points and has
reduced banks’ reserve ratios 1.5 percentage points in 2012.  Indian  GDP rose  5.5 percent in the three months through
June from a year earlier, below Singh’s goal of about 8 percent.
The current-account deficit narrowed to $16.4 billion in the
second quarter of 2012, from $21.7 billion.  The “falling growth cycle appears to have reached its
trough” and the government’s policy revamp may support a
recovery later if successfully implemented, the central bank
said. Bolstering investment remains the key to reviving the
economy, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  