-- Treasuries Gain as Hurricane Sandy Looms; Bonds Closed
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-10-29T16:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/treasuries-hold-gain-before-job-data-early-close.html
Treasuries  rose , pushing 10-year
note yields to almost a two-week low in an abbreviated trading
session, amid concern that Hurricane Sandy will disrupt business
and hurt the U.S. economic recovery. Trading in bonds will be
closed tomorrow.  Trading volume slowed to a 10-month low as the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association  recommended  trading
in dollar-denominated fixed-income securities end at noon in  New
York  because of the storm. Treasuries were also supported on
speculation that Greece will need to restructure its debt, and
before a report this week that economists predict will show the
U.S. jobless rate climbed in October. The  Federal Reserve 
postponed its open market operations until Oct. 31.  “Most eyes are on the hurricane and as such volume is half
the normal amount,” said  David Ader , head of U.S. government
bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“The same European stories and uncertainty brought us a little
lower in yield overnight, and those stories and the uncertainty
persists. There was nothing in the data that we didn’t know
coming into today.”  The U.S. 10-year  yield  fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.72 percent at 12 p.m. in New York, the
lowest since Oct. 16, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 1.625 percent note due in August 2022 rose 7/32, or $2.19
per $1,000 face amount, to 99 5/32.  Trading Slows  Treasury volume reported by ICAP Plc, the largest inter-
dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , fell to $81.79 billion,
the lowest volume since December 2011, from $243.96 billion on
Oct. 26 in New York. The volume was nearly of third of the yearly
average of $242.5 billion a day in 2012.  Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are among Wall
Street firms that shifted operations to other cities and told
staff to work from home as  Hurricane Sandy  forced evacuations in
New York.  The U.S. Treasury Department sold $25 billion in four-week
bills at a high discount rate of 0.13 percent. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing the amount bid with the
amount offered, was 5.23, the highest since January.  The Treasury also sold $32 billion of  three-month  bills at
a rate of 0.125 percent and $28 billion of  six-month  securities
at 0.160 percent.  The Fed will resume operations on Oct. 31. The central bank
sold $7.8 billion of Treasuries due from November 2015 through
December 2015 today. The  sales  are part of the Fed’s program to
replace short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term
Treasuries in an effort to keep borrowing costs low.  Economic Outlook  U.S. consumer household purchases, which account for about
70 percent of the economy, rose 0.8 percent, the most since
February, after a 0.5 percent gain the prior month, a Commerce
Department report showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 71 economists called for a 0.6
percent rise. Incomes rose 0.4 percent, the most since March.  The jobless rate climbed to 7.9 percent this month from a
three-year low of 7.8 percent in September, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the Nov. 2 report.
Employers hired 125,000 workers, following an increase of
114,000 in September, according to another Bloomberg survey.  “Despite Sandy’s dislocation of the market the employment
number is still in the back of people’s mind as well as the
uncertainty of the elections, the fiscal cliff, Europe and all
the usual suspects, which means Treasuries will remain well bid
for the next several weeks,” said  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income
strategist at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Bond market buying at this point is all
about insurance, not value.”  European Issues  Treasuries rose on Oct. 26, sending the 10-year yield down
eight basis points, after a report showed Spain’s unemployment
rate climbed to a record 25.02 percent, fueling demand for the
relative safety of  U.S. debt .  The European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  proposed a restructuring of Greek
debt that would require public-sector lenders to take losses,
Spiegel reported without saying there it got the information.  From Treasuries to mortgage securities to corporate bonds,
returns on U.S. fixed-income assets have averaged 6.5 percent
throughout President  Barack Obama ’s term, exceeding the 4.6
percent during the previous four years under  George W. Bush ,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Yields on
America’s fixed-income assets are seven basis points less than
the global average, compared with 51 basis points more back
then, the data shows.  Treasuries gained 1.7 percent in 2012 through last week,
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch figures show. The  MSCI All-
Country World Index (MXWD)  returned 13 percent, according to data
compiled by  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  