-- Republican Report Faults Finger-Pointing After Gun Effort
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-10-29T19:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/republican-report-faults-finger-pointing-after-gun-effort.html
The U.S. Justice Department failed
to heed the warning signs raised by a federal gun operation,
according to a report released today by two Republican
lawmakers.  Senator  Charles Grassley  and Representative  Darrell Issa 
released their second of three reports on Fast and Furious, a
law enforcement effort that allowed illegal gun purchases in the
U.S. in an effort to link the weapons to Mexican cartels.  Two of the guns from Fast and Furious were found at the
scene of the 2010 killing in  Arizona  of U.S. Border Patrol Agent
Brian Terry.  Senior officials at the Justice Department failed to
recognize the problems presented by the operation “until it was
too late,” according to the report released today.  “Every senior Department official interviewed during the
Committees’ investigation claimed either ignorance of Fast and
Furious or that it was someone else’s responsibility to ask
questions or draw connections,” the 104-page  report  said.
“Senior managers placed blame elsewhere and retained plausible
deniability.”  The report comes a month after  Justice Department ’s
inspector general released a 471-page report that outlined
management failures at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives and the Justice Department, as well as flaws in
the program that lost track of about 2,000 guns purchased by
straw buyers. ATF is part of the Justice Department.  The inspector general recommended 14 officials for
disciplinary action. Two of those officials resigned the day of
the report’s release.  Attorney General Eric Holder, in a statement on the day of
the inspector general report’s release, said that it outlined a
strategy that had been in place -- and was driven by field
agents -- since 2006 and that the department’s leadership did
not know or authorize “the use of the flawed strategy or
tactics.”  Along with the resignations, the department put in place
changes in policy and to internal controls aimed at preventing a
repeat of the operation.  Grassley, of  Iowa , is the top Republican on the Senate
Judiciary Committee. California Republican Issa is the chairman
of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  