-- Riverbed Agrees to Buy Opnet Adding Network Management
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2012-10-29T14:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/riverbed-agrees-to-buy-opnet-adding-network-management.html
Riverbed Technology Inc. (RVBD)  has agreed
to acquire Opnet Technologies Inc. in a transaction with an
equity value of $1 billion, expanding its offerings to help
businesses manage computer networks.  Opnet investors will get about $43 a share, made up of
$36.55 in cash and 0.2774 Riverbed shares, the companies said in
a statement. That’s about a 34 percent premium over Opnet’s
closing price on Oct. 26.  Riverbed, which creates technology to help customers run
their software in far-flung data centers more efficiently, has
benefited from the growth of cloud computing. Opnet will help
Riverbed meet demand for cheaper, faster tools to run corporate
data networks, which will increasingly be controlled over the
Internet, said Alex Henderson, an analyst at Needham & Co.  “This deal makes a lot of sense and the strengths of Opnet
and Riverbed are highly synergistic,” Henderson said in an e-
mail interview.  Riverbed, based in  San Francisco , will use cash and debt
for the transaction, which is expected to close by the end of
2012. Riverbed has a market value of $3.48 billion and had cash
and short-term investments of $533.1 million as of Sept. 30.  “The addition of Opnet establishes Riverbed as the clear
leader in the high-growth and converging application and network
performance management markets,” Riverbed Chief Executive
Officer Jerry Kennelly said in the statement. “This acquisition
also transforms Riverbed into a billion-dollar revenue
company.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  advised Riverbed and will provide
financing for the transaction, along with  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  Opnet,
based in Bethesda, Maryland, received financial advice from
Lazard Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  