-- Romney’s New Thinking on Iran
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-10-29T15:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/romney-reveals-new-thinking-on-iranian-nukes-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Last week, shortly after the third
and final presidential debate, the one ostensibly devoted to
foreign policy, I got a call from a major Romney supporter (not
a Sheldon Adelson-sized donor, but still someone with throw-
weight) who sounded worried about his candidate’s position on
the Iranian nuclear threat.  You will recall that  Mitt Romney , the Republican candidate,
seemed to be auditioning for the role of President  Barack Obama ’s national-security adviser during the debate, more or
less agreeing with the president on everything from  Iraq  to
 Afghanistan  to  Syria , and emphasizing his desire for a peaceful,
negotiated resolution to the Iranian crisis.  “It is also essential for us to understand what our mission
is in  Iran , and that is to dissuade Iran from having a nuclear
weapon through peaceful and diplomatic means,” Romney said.  The Republican nominee has spent his entire campaign
hammering Obama as a squish on Iran. The arguments are familiar
by now: Obama is naive; Obama writes mash notes to the supreme
leader; Obama is ambivalent about sanctions; and most of all,
when the moment of decision arrives, Obama will accede to Iran’s
nuclear capability rather than launch a military strike. Romney,
by contrast, has positioned himself as the candidate who won’t
flinch if the time comes to order the bombers into the air.  New Tone  Was Romney going soft? my caller asked. Was his candidate
Etch-A-Sketching away from his commitment to stop Iran from
acquiring nuclear weapons? This donor wasn’t the only one
flummoxed by the apparent shift. I have been told that  Senator
Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina , a Romney supporter and
possibly the hardest among the hard-liners on Iran (he said
recently the “time for talking is over”), expressed frustration
with senior campaign officials over Romney’s new tone.  I, too, was perplexed. Not about debate tactics -- it
doesn’t take a genius to understand that most Americans aren’t
eager to open a new front in the seemingly endless war against
Muslim militancy -- but about whether Romney had been head-
faking us the whole time. After all, it isn’t always easy to
identify his fixed positions on a range of subjects.  So I e-mailed Romney some questions. The first couple were
simple: Has your stance softened? Has your thinking shifted on
the question of whether negotiations with Iran could bear fruit?  He e-mailed back a lengthy response. Here are the crucial
bits: “I have always talked about the diplomatic process,” he
wrote. “I will not rule out diplomatic options, so long as we
would not be rewarding bad behavior and so long as the Iranian
leadership was truly cornered and ready to change its behavior.
A crumbling economy is not enough. Because even with a crumbling
economy, the Iranian leadership is still racing towards a bomb
right now.”  Romney went out of his way to suggest that the Obama
administration plans to spring some sort of late-November
surprise on America’s Middle East allies, citing a recent  New
York  Times report that Iran and the White House had agreed to
face-to-face negotiations after the election (a report denied by
the White House). “Our closest allies, like  Israel , will not
learn about our plans from the New York Times,” Romney wrote.
“And I’ll be clear with the American people about where I’m
heading. I won’t be secretly asking the Ayatollahs for more
flexibility following some future election.”  Biggest Mistake  He also denied that his new emphasis on negotiations means
that he would accept less than a complete halt to Iran’s nuclear
work: “To be clear, the objective of any strategy will be to get
Iran to stop spinning centrifuges, stop enriching uranium, shut
down its facilities. Full stop. Existing fissile material will
have to be shipped out of the country.”  I asked Romney to name the biggest mistake he thinks Obama
has made on Iran. “President Obama has sent the Ayatollahs mixed
messages throughout the past four years,” he wrote. “That’s why
he has lost credibility on the negotiating track. Round after
round after round of talks and nothing to show for them. Iran
continues to race to a nuclear weapons capability and continues
to become more brazen in its support of terrorism around the
world, including a terror plot in Washington, D.C.,” a reference
to a thwarted plot, hatched in Tehran, to assassinate the Saudi
Arabian ambassador to the U.S.  Romney went on: “What do I mean by mixed messages? In the
first year of his administration, the President said he would
sit down with Ahmadinejad without pre-conditions, and President
Obama deliberately remained silent during the  Green Revolution ,
signaling to the Ayatollahs that Iran’s dissident movement would
not have America’s support. President Obama also pursued a
policy of creating ‘daylight’ -- his word -- between the U.S.
and Israel. And through the end of the third year of his
administration, the president fought congressional efforts --
bi-partisan congressional efforts -- to pass crippling sanctions
on Iran’s  Central Bank . This all happened against the backdrop
of the president’s top advisors and cabinet secretaries
broadcasting the risks of the military option, therefore
conveying to Iran’s leadership that the threat is simply not
real. Add all of this together, one can understand why Iran’s
leaders are not taking the  United States  very seriously these
days.”  A Caricature  Some of this is campaign bluster. Decision making inside
the Iranian regime is too opaque for us to know exactly what the
supreme leader thinks of Obama. And the Romney campaign’s
portrayal of Obama’s policy is a caricature; Obama has never
been as naive about Iran as Republicans have alleged.  Romney’s more potent criticism of Obama has more to do with
statements made by Obama’s underlings. It is true, as Romney
wrote, that administration officials have discussed publicly the
risks of an American (or Israeli) attack on Iran’s nuclear
facilities. There are risks, of course -- potentially
catastrophic ones -- of attacking. But it doesn’t help the
American negotiating position to publicly telegraph to the
Iranians these sorts of doubts.  Which brings me to a central contradiction in this looming
crisis: Obama, the putative appeaser, is more likely than Romney
to use military force against the regime’s nuclear sites. As a
liberal Democrat, he will face less opposition, and find more
international acquiescence, for such an attack, and a study of
his record on the subject of non-proliferation shows him to be
preoccupied by the threat posed by Iran.  Romney, on the other hand, isn’t the warmonger the Obama
camp makes him out to be. He has never closed the door on the
idea of negotiations, and his answers in the debate, and in our
e-mail exchange, are consistent with earlier statements. In
 Jerusalem  in July,  he said , “We should employ any and all
measures to dissuade the Iranian regime from its nuclear course,
and it is our fervent hope that diplomatic and economic measures
will do so.”  Moreover, as a Republican governing in the shadow of
President  George W. Bush , Romney will also have a more difficult
time mustering support for an eventual strike. But if he
calibrates his approach well -- if the Iranians are led to
believe that he might just be crazy enough to strike -- he would
find it easier to force the regime to the negotiating table. In
other words, if he becomes president, it may be in the American
interest for Romney to be privately reasonable and publicly
unreasonable.  As we saw in last week’s debate, that’s a very hard line to
walk.  (Jeffrey Goldberg is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jeffrey Goldberg  at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  