-- Romney Started War on Coal with EPA Lawsuit, Trumka Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-10-29T18:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/romney-started-war-on-coal-with-epa-lawsuit-trumka-says.html
Coal miners will fare better if
President  Barack Obama  is re-elected, as opponent  Mitt Romney 
doesn’t understand the “nature of hard work,” AFL-CIO
President  Richard Trumka  said.  “President Obama stands head and shoulders above Mitt
Romney when it comes to protecting the lives of coal miners and
giving them a future,” Trumka, a former coal miner who heads
the largest U.S. labor federation, said today on a conference
call.  Trumka’s narrative is at odds with Romney’s warnings to
coal miners that a second Obama administration will lead to
tougher regulations and fewer mining jobs.  Obama “has gone so far as to impose regulations designed
to bankrupt the coal industry,” according to Romney’s website.  The number of coal jobs in the U.S. is half what it was 30
years ago. Some of those that remain are clustered in rural
enclaves in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia that both candidates
see as critical to winning the White House, which has made coal
a prominent election issue.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under Obama plans
to phase in limits on industrial emissions of carbon dioxide
through 2016. The rules stem from a 2007 U.S.  Supreme Court 
ruling that the EPA had authority to regulate  greenhouse gases 
such as carbon dioxide and methane under the  Clean Air Act .  The case was initiated by Massachusetts Attorney General
Thomas Reilly, a Democrat who ran unsuccessfully to succeed
Romney as governor in 2006. Eleven other states were among
petitioners in the case.  “Those EPA regulations were ordered by the Supreme Court
as a result of a lawsuit by Mitt Romney while he was governor,”
Trumka said. “If there is a war on coal, it starts and ends
with Mitt Romney.”  Fracking Impact  Ryan Williams , a Romney spokesman, said the Massachusetts
attorney general is elected by voters, “is independent of
governor’s office and makes his or her own decisions regarding
the Commonwealth’s legal strategy.”  In 2008, about 48 percent of U.S. electricity came from
coal. In August, that total had slipped to 38 percent, according
to the Energy Information Administration. Coal is losing its
place as the mainstay in power generation to increased
production of natural gas as a result of hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking, which has driven down prices for natural gas to
their lowest levels in 10 years.  Trumka also praised Obama for better enforcement of coal-
mine regulations through the U.S. Mine Safety and Health
Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  