-- RTS Futures Fall on Oil as Sandy Closes Market: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-10-30T03:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/rts-futures-fall-on-oil-as-sandy-closes-market-russia-overnight.html
Russian stock  futures  retreated and
contracts for OAO Rosneft, the nation’s biggest oil producer,
slipped as  Hurricane Sandy  approached the U.S. East Coast,
driving down crude prices.  December futures on Russia’s RTS Index declined 0.5 percent
to 142,320 during New York trading hours as U.S. equity markets
shut because of the storm. Russian shares listed in the U.S.
didn’t trade after the Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index dropped
3.8 percent last week. Crude headed for the lowest close in
three months, losing 0.3 percent to $85.33 a barrel in after-
hours trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange today.  Crude tumbled as much as 1.9 percent in New York yesterday
as U.S. refineries reduced operations ahead of Sandy. Oil is
Russia’s biggest export earner and along with natural gas
contributed about 50 percent of government revenue last year.
Moscow’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid 1.8 percent last week as oil had its
biggest decline since the third week of September.  “With oil showing downward movement and no direction from
the U.S., the Russian markets are continuing their negative
movement from last week,” Ilya Kravets, who helps manage $100
million of investments at ED Capital LLC in New York, said by e-
mail yesterday.  The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
futures, fell 0.5 percent to 27.53 points. Volume of trading in
RTS stock index futures fell to 20 percent of the average daily
volume in the past three months yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows.  ‘Driving Factor’  “The market is dead because of the hurricane,” Igor Nuzhdin, an analyst at OAO Nomos Bank in Moscow, said by phone
yesterday. “Investors are lacking direction. Oil remains the
only driving factor and it pushes us down.”  Futures on the ruble weakened 0.1 percent to 31.758 per
dollar yesterday.  Futures on Rosneft fell 0.3 percent yesterday as the  stock 
slid 0.3 percent to 230.98 rubles in Moscow. Contracts on OAO
Surgutneftegas,  Russia ’s fourth-biggest oil producer, declined
0.2 percent yesterday while the stock retreated 0.9 percent to
27.357 rubles in Moscow.  Oil fell for a second day in electronic trading today as
Sandy slammed into southern New Jersey and churned north over
land. The storm, the largest in the Atlantic on record, has been
downgraded to a post-tropical cyclone by the National Hurricane
Center. Crude prices are down 14 percent this year.  Brent oil for December settlement slipped 0.1 percent to
end the session at $109.44 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange yesterday.  Urals crude , Russia’s main
export oil blend, fell 0.7 percent to $107.75 per barrel.  Altimo Stake  Altimo, the Russian investment company fighting Telenor ASA
for control of U.S.-traded mobile provider  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , said
yesterday that it boosted its voting stake in the company to
47.85 percent. Telenor owns 43 percent of VimpelCom’s voting
shares.  “This will bring the balance of power back to Altimo,”
Markus Bjerke, an analyst at Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo with
a hold rating on the shares, said by e-mail yesterday.
“Shareholder conflict is likely to ease in the near term and
dividends are likely to resume. Although we think it is
premature to call off the shareholder conflict, the situation
has improved for the medium term with regard to VimpelCom share
price performance.”  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s biggest producer of coal for steel
makers, increased coal production by 5 percent to 20.8 million
tons in the January-through-September period, the company said
in a statement after the market closed in Moscow yesterday.
 Mechel (MTLR)  increased steel production by 13 percent to 5.1 million
tons during the period, according to the statement.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 1.6 percent to HK$4.23 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:20
a.m. local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  