-- Rule Tweaks May Dissuade California Carbon Bidders, RBC Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-10-29T12:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/rule-tweaks-may-dissuade-california-carbon-bidders-rbc-says.html
Tweaks to the rules governing the
 California  carbon market may dissuade bidders in the state’s
first auction next month, said a trader at RBC Capital Markets.  California’s air resources board on Aug. 17 suspended a
rule requiring companies to pledge annually that they haven’t
engaged in “shuffling” electricity resources to comply with
state emissions limits. The board may propose regulatory
amendments by the middle of next year to change supply of free
allowances to factories at risk of shifting their emissions to
regions outside the state, according to a  Sept. 20 statement  on
the board’s website. The market starts Jan. 1.  “Here we are a month or two away from the market’s start
and we are relaxing the rules,” said Anthony D’Agostino,
director of emissions markets at RBC. “I don’t see where the
demand for the auction is going to come from. If they start
changing rules, it gives traders pause.”  California carbon allowances  for December 2013 have dropped
35 percent since July, when Bloomberg started tracking data from
brokers. California’s first auction of permits on Nov. 14 may
cause prices to fall by offering too many too quickly, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said last month.  The state Air Resources Board on Nov. 14 will sell at least
21.8 million allowances to be used during the first compliance
phase of the cap-and-trade program, designed to help curb
California’s greenhouse-gas emissions by 2020 to 1990 levels.
The agency will also offer about 39.5 million tons of permits
for the second compliance phase beginning in 2015.  “The first time covered entities need to surrender
allowances for compliance is November 2014,” D’Agostino said
Oct. 25 from Cincinnati,  Ohio . “Market participants would
rather not tie up capital.”  D’Agostino said trading in the secondary market was
sporadic.  ‘Absolutely Nothing’  “We’ll have two-to-three days where absolutely nothing
trades,” he said. “Most trading is being done by a few
financial players and the trading arms of energy companies.”  The people trading appear to be testing the market before
the sale rather than trading for compliance, D’Agostino said.  Volumes are low prior to the first sale partly because most
allowances are being allocated free of charge, he said.  “There’s not a lot of trading to do. I doubt it will be
oversubscribed and it may be under subscribed,” he said.  RBC plans to participate in the auction, he said. The sale
price may turn out at about $12 a metric ton, he said.  That’s compared with prices last week of $12.88 a ton,
according to data from brokers compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices for 2015 permits will reach $10 a metric ton should
allowances go unsold in the November auction, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. California lawmakers, who are
counting on at least $660 million in revenue from auctions held
in the 2012-2013 fiscal year, may “miss that mark,” New
Energy’s research showed.  Carbon in Power  Some electricity generators may buy in the auction to cover
sales of power, which is sold ahead of generation, D’Agostino
said.  “The forward power prices already have carbon built into
them,” he said.  Demand for greenhouse-gas offsets in California is low
partly because of the regulator’s ability to revoke credits once
they have been issued, D’Agostino said. Banks and others “don’t
like to trade that stuff,” he said.  “The buyer liability issue has definitely slowed volumes
down,” he said. “It’s been super illiquid.”  It’s possible that insurers will be willing to underwrite
the risk of credits being revoked after issuance, which would
probably boost demand, D’Agostino said.  The state in January is set to create the world’s second-
largest carbon market, behind the European Union’s emissions
trading system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  