-- Sandstorm Bets on Buying Not Finding Gas, Gold
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-10-29T20:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/sandstorm-bets-on-buying-not-finding-gas-gold-corporate-canada.html
Nolan Watson, whose  Sandstorm Gold
Ltd. (SSL)  has risen five-fold by buying and selling gold rather than
mining it, says his smaller company focused on base metals and
energy has even more growth potential.  Watson co-founded Sandstorm Gold to buy bullion from mining
companies in so-called streaming deals that pay in advance for a
percentage of output at a discounted fixed price. He then sells
the gold to reap the spread between the purchase price and the
spot price. Watson set up  Sandstorm Metals & Energy Ltd. (SND)  in 2010
to apply the same financing model for companies in non-precious
metals, oil and gas.  “I firmly believe it will be the larger of the two
entities in the long run just because the space is so much
larger,” Watson, 33, said in an Oct. 25 interview at his
Vancouver office. “The companies are bigger, the mines are
bigger, there’s more of them and we’re going to take advantage
of that.”  As the cost of building mines and developing petroleum
deposits soars, Watson is positioning the Sandstorms as
alternative sources of funding for natural resources companies
that may not be able to sell debt or equity.  Watson is developing a lucrative niche by carving out deals
too small for heftier peers such as  Silver Wheaton Corp. (SLW) ,
 Franco-Nevada Corp. (FNV)  and  Royal Gold Inc. (RGLD) , said Ian Armstrong, co-
founder and chief operating officer of New York-based Clear
Harbor Asset Management LLC, that owns shares in both of
Watson’s companies.  Youngest CFO  “We have 100 or 200 mining companies come through our
offices every year and the source of funding for those companies
just isn’t there right now,” Armstrong said in a phone
interview. “That’s a fantastic runway for companies like the
Sandstorms.”  Three-month implied  volatility , a measure of expected
volatility in the stock over the next three months, has risen
from a low of about 30 percent on Aug. 17 to 46 percent at the
end of last week.  The shares have more than doubled in the past 12 months on
the Toronto Stock Exchange’s Venture bourse for a market value
of C$1.18 billion ($1.18 billion), compared with a 20 percent
drop in the junior exchange’s 418-member composite index and an
18 percent decline in the broad Standard & Poor’s/TSX Global
Gold  Index. (SPTSGD)  Sandstorm fell 1 cent to C$13.65 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto. It has soared from C$2.78 when Watson was appointed CEO
in 2008.  Brazil Mine  Armstrong attributes Sandstorm Gold’s success to Watson,
who said he became the youngest chief financial officer of a
multi-billion-dollar company listed on the  New York  Stock
Exchange when the then 26 year old was appointed CFO of Silver
Wheaton,  North America ’s largest metals streamer with a market
value of more than C$13.9 billion.  Watson is chief executive officer of Sandstorm Gold and the
metals streamer. His 1.1 percent stake in Sandstorm Gold is
worth C$12.7 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have incredible confidence in him and his team,”
Armstrong said. “Being on the smaller side, they have the
ability to be more nimble and with the sister company --
Sandstorm Metals -- they have the ability to look at multiple
streams.”  Last month, the Vancouver-based companies said Sandstorm
Gold agreed to buy gold and platinum from Toronto-based  Colossus
Minerals Inc. (CSI) ’s Serra Pelada mine in  Brazil  while Sandstorm
Metals also acquired a palladium stream at the same project.  The deal came after Sandstorm Gold raised C$150 million
selling shares to banks and brokerages including Casimir Capital
Ltd. Watson’s in no hurry to deploy the cash.  Capital Costs  “Our goal is to only do good deals and there may be years
in the future where doing only good deals means there may be
years that we don’t do any,” said Watson, sporting a neatly
trimmed reddish beard.  Those deals involve high-quality resource projects under
development by small companies that have a high cost of capital
that will ultimately translate into out-sized profits for his
companies, Watson said.  “We don’t want to be a lender of last resort,” he said.  Watson says the price of bullion will extend its upward
trend as long as the global economy stays mired in the aftermath
of the 2008-2009 economic crisis.  “As long as there’s quantitative easing, central banks
printing money, or other fundamental things that will weaken
currencies, gold goes up,” he said.  A higher gold price may help keep Sandstorm Gold’s share
price aloft, shielding the company from being swallowed up by
one of its peers, Watson said.  “Our goal is to trade at valuation multiples similar to
the other streamers so it just doesn’t make economic sense for
any of them to take a run at us,” he said. “The risk reward
wouldn’t make sense.”  Not Applicable  Sandstorm Gold has never paid more than $500 an ounce for
gold and typically sells its share of incoming production within
two weeks, Watson said.  Prospects for growing Sandstorm Metals to be bigger than
the gold company hinge on how much time Watson and his 15
employees can devote to the little sister, said Eric Winmill, a
Toronto-based analyst at Casimir.  “As they turn more and more attention on Sandstorm Metals,
I can only think that they can eclipse Sandstorm Gold,” Winmill
said by telephone. “Nolan has tremendous support from his
institutional and retail investors.”  Sandstorm Metals may not have what it takes to outpace the
gold company, said Clear Harbor’s Armstrong.  “I don’t think the model is quite as applicable in the
non-precious metals space” because those companies have more
access to traditional funding, Armstrong said. “We’re
disproportionately interested in precious metals streaming
companies.”  Watson said amid the gold company’s success, Sandstorm
Metals has stumbled on ill-timed bets on “a bunch” of natural
gas and metallurgical coal projects.  Sandstorm Metals rose 5.2 percent to 51 cents on the
venture exchange, for a market value of C$162 million. It has
risen 52 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  