-- SBI Said to Seek Acquisition of Repower Loan to Fund Suzlon
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2012-10-29T11:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/sbi-said-to-seek-acquisition-of-repower-loan-to-fund-suzlon.html
Lenders led by  State Bank of India 
are seeking to acquire loans made to  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ’s German
unit, a move that would enable  India ’s largest wind-turbine
maker to access cash at the business, said three people with
knowledge of the matter.  The terms of a 750-million euro ($967 million) loan, made
to Repower Systems SE this year, prohibit Suzlon from tapping
the Hamburg-based unit’s cash or drawing on credit available to
the business, two of the people said asking not to be identified
as the information is private. The SBI-led group plans to change
those terms after acquiring the loan, the people said.  Access to Repower’s cash would help the Pune-based company
address debt that has reached 140 billion rupees ($2.6 billion)
as of March 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Suzlon, which
has lost money for three years, failed to repay $209 million of
debt on Oct. 11 after bondholders rejected its request for a
four-month extension. The default was the biggest on convertible
bonds by an Indian company.  Repower’s cash balance was about $163 million, said Antoine Bourgault, a London-based analyst at ISM Capital LLP, citing
data provided by Suzlon. The German unit also has $163 million
of debt, “which may or may not have to be redeemed,” according
to him.  Verena Puth, a spokeswoman at Repower, said the terms of
the loan that prevent Suzlon from tapping the funds haven’t
changed and declined to provide the unit’s standalone cash
balance or total debt. Citing a quiet period, a spokesman at
Suzlon declined to comment on the status of the loan. A
spokesman at SBI did not reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  “We are looking at ways to resolve the issue and need time
to sort this out,” SBI Deputy Managing Director Santosh Nayar
said on Oct. 11.  The 750-million loan to Repower was made by a group led by
BayernLB Holdings AG, Commerzbank AG and Deutsche Bank AG, the
company said in March. Thirteen banks and credit insurance
companies took part in the loan which comprised a  725 million
euro  letter of guarantee and a 25 million euro credit facility,
according to a March 1 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  