-- HSH Nordbank’s Owners Willing to Replenish Lender’s Guarantees
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-10-29T20:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/hsh-nordbank-s-owners-willing-to-replenish-lender-s-guarantees.html
HSH Nordbank AG’s main owners, the
German federal states of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein, are
willing to replenish the world’s largest shipping lender’s
guarantees as the bank struggles with a shipping industry in
crisis.  The two states, which control more than 80 percent of HSH
Nordbank, provided the bank with 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion)
in capital and 10 billion euros in guarantees to cover potential
losses during the global financial crisis. The lender has since
repaid 3 billion euros of the guarantees it received from
Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein, and the two states may now bring
the guarantees back up to the original 10 billion euros.  “The replenishment of the guarantees would at the moment
be the most effective measure,” Claudia Prehn, a spokeswoman
for  Schleswig-Holstein’s finance ministry , said in an e-mailed
response to questions today. “Both states have signaled that
they are determined to support the bank.”  HSH Nordbank had begun to recover from the global financial
turmoil -- posting its first profit in three years in 2010,
embarking on a new business strategy and implementing the
changes required by the European Union in exchange for the state
aid -- when the shipping industry crisis deteriorated. During
2011 it repaid the guarantees it had received from its owners
and it redeemed its last guaranteed bond from the German
government’s Soffin bank-rescue fund in July this year.  The shipping crisis worsened in the second and third
quarters of this year, with more of the bank’s shipping clients
struggling to service their debt amid low freight rates, an
overcapacity of ships, slumping demand and rising fuel costs.  Repayment ‘Mistake’  HSH Nordbank’s repayment of 3 billion euros of the
guarantees from Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein, which it made in
2011, “was a mistake, from today’s perspective,” Prehn said.
Now, the “new business model must also prove itself in a
difficult environment, which is neither easy, nor impossible.”  HSH Nordbank’s capital ratios fell in the second quarter
after the shipping industry crisis and a stronger U.S. dollar
brought an increase in the lender’s risk-weighted assets. Loan
loss provisions jumped to 68 million euros in the three months
through June, from 43 million euros in the first quarter. In the
second quarter of 2011, it recouped 244 million euros set aside
for bad loans. HSH swung to a loss of 67 million euros in the
second quarter, from profit of 212 million euros a year earlier.  As a result of a deteriorating situation in the shipping
industry, HSH Nordbank said Aug. 31 that it forecasts a further
increase in loan-loss provisioning in the second half of this
year and that “in the current environment, it is therefore
likely to become more challenging for HSH Nordbank to fully
achieve its financial targets.” It forecast on March 23 that it
would post a 2012 profit, followed by a “gradual” further
improvement in earnings, after a net loss in 2011. It likely
needs to make a profit if it is to raise capital ratios.  Capital Levels  The bank is now evaluating what measures it can take to
boost its capital levels and reduce risks without injecting
fresh capital, it said in an e-mailed response to questions on
Oct. 19. That process may take several weeks or months, the bank
said, adding that it is not in talks with its owners Hamburg and
Schleswig-Holstein to increase the guarantees.  An injection of fresh capital into HSH Nordbank is not an
option for  Germany ’s northern-most federal state, Prehn said.  HSH Nordbank on Oct. 17 announced that Chief Executive
Officer Paul Lerbinger would step down at the end of this month
after only 19 months on the job and be replaced by Chief
Financial Officer Constantin von Oesterreich. Stefan Ermisch
will become the lender’s new CFO, the lender said Oct. 24.  The bank, which plans to cut more than 1,100 jobs by 2014,
has been exiting businesses such as airplane financing and
international real estate and closing offices to gain approval
for the state aid it received during the global financial
crisis. HSH, which intends to reduce total assets at its main
business to 82 billion euros by 2014, forecasts cutting the size
of its core shipping lending portfolio to 15 billion euros by
then, compared with 19 billion euros at the end of last year.  New proceedings about state aid with the EU are likely if
the guarantees are replenished, Schleswig-Holstein’s Prehn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  