-- Shinsei Bank Plans Japan Health-Care REIT Amid Aging Population
-- B y   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o ,   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2012-10-29T01:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/shinsei-bank-plans-japan-health-care-reit-amid-aging-population.html
Shinsei Bank Ltd. (8303) , the Japanese
lender partly owned by J.  Christopher Flowers , plans to set up a
health-care real estate investment trust to capture growth in
one of the world’s fastest-aging nations.  The bank seeks to start the REIT with about 100 billion yen
($1.25 billion) in two years, said Takashi Fujimura, general
manager of the health-care finance division at Shinsei. The bank
may be able to list a REIT as early as 2014, once the Japanese
government establishes guidelines to allow the listing of such
REITs, he said.  One in every four people in Japan will be older than 65
years in 2014, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The bank
plans to provide lending for nursing homes and senior housing in
 Japan  to match the rising demand as it expects the nation’s
health-care market to double in size to 6 trillion yen in five
years, said Fujimura.  “There is no other asset types that offer double growth in
volume,” said Fujimura. “Health-care assets are scarce from
the start. It offers a tremendous growth opportunity.”  About 23 percent of 421,000 applicants had to wait for the
availability of a bed in public nursing homes in 2009, according
to the latest  data  available from Japan’s Ministry of Health,
Labour and Welfare. The number of people using nursing homes is
estimated to increase by a quarter to 1.15 million in 2015 from
920,000 in 2011, according to  data  from the Cabinet Office.  REIT Lending  The Japanese government is preparing to allow the listing
of the REITs in a bid to encourage more supply of such
facilities amid Japan’s aging population, the land ministry said.
The government in September set up a committee to discuss
details to allow the listing of health-care REITs. Shinsei is a
member of the committee representing the financial sector.  Shinsei plans to invest in a company that operates health-
care REIT as a way to get into the market and will also provide
lending to the REITs, Fujimura said. It costs about 1 billion
yen to 2 billion yen to build 50 to 100 room senior housing, he
said.  “Building senior housing facilities needs a lot of capital
and it would be impossible for the local owners to finance such
projects,” said Fujimura. “It’s best to go to the  capital
market  or finance by using securitization.”  An average nursing-home facility charges about 100,000 yen
to 250,000 yen per person per month, while luxury health-care
housing can cost as much as 800,000 yen per person, according to
presentation material provided by Shinsei.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  