-- Virgin Australia Sells 10% Stake to Singapore Airlines
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-10-30T07:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/singapore-air-buys-10-of-virgin-australia-amid-airline-shakeup.html
Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  sold
a 10 percent stake to  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and sought control
of two local rivals, creating the biggest challenge to  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s market leadership in more than a decade.  Singapore Air will spend A$105 million ($109 million) on
new Virgin shares, according to a statement today. Brisbane-
based Virgin will pay at least A$35 million for 60 percent of
budget carrier  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) ’s Australian unit and
it will bid for all of regional operator  Skywest Airlines Ltd. (SXR) ,
according to filings.  Virgin jumped the most in almost two months on the deals,
as Chief Executive Officer John Borghetti builds on a strategy
of alliances that already includes investments from Etihad
Airways PJSC and  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR)  The move adds to pressure
on Qantas, which last month announced a tie-up with Emirates in
a bid to end losses on international routes.  “They’re going to give Qantas a run for their money,”
Simon Fitzgerald, an analyst at Moelis & Co. in Sydney, said by
phone. Borghetti “is making really well thought-through
strategic moves with this company. He’s not sitting back waiting
for things to happen.”  Buying control of Tiger Australia will give Virgin a budget
brand to compete with Qantas’ Jetstar and bolster its operations
on Australian east coast routes where competition has driven
business-class ticket prices to  20-year lows .  Tiger Australia, whose parent is part-owned by Singapore
Air, won back a full operating license this month after fixing
safety faults that had caused regulators to ground the carrier
last year.  “Tiger will allow us to compete against the Jetstar brand
much stronger,” Borghetti told a media conference in Sydney.  Scoot Focus  For Singapore Air, handing over control of Tiger  Australia 
will let it bolster its focus on new long-haul budget carrier
Scoot, Neil Hansford, chairman of consultants Strategic Aviation
Solutions Pty., said by phone from Salamander Bay, Australia.  “It’s a bit of saving face by Singapore Air,” he said.
They are “exiting something that is going through the motions
but is never going to deliver what they wanted,” he said. Tiger
Australia accounts for 25 percent of Tiger’s  group revenue .  Virgin Australia, which also cooperates on U.S. routes with
Delta Air Lines Inc.,  rose  5.4 percent to 48.5 Australian cents
at the close of trading in Sydney, the most since Sept. 4.
Skywest, which flies workers for the  mining industry , surged 57
percent to 44 cents, its biggest increase since the company
first sold shares to the market in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Virgin will offer 45 cents a share in cash and stock for
Skywest, it said today. The takeover, which values the regional
carrier at A$94 million, is subject to shareholder approval.  Virgin Transformation  Qantas was unchanged at A$1.34 in Sydney and Singapore Air
rose 0.7 percent to S$10.61 as of 3:05 p.m. in Singapore. Tiger
Air, which also today reported a second-quarter loss of S$18.3
million ($15 million) driven by S$20 million of operating losses
at its Australian unit, climbed 0.7 percent to 74 Singaporean
cents.  Borghetti, a former Qantas executive, has transformed
Virgin since taking over in 2010, changing the company’s name,
and completing the abandonment of its previous budget-carrier
strategy while adding business-class facilities to lure
executive travelers from Qantas.  Virgin has also altered its corporate structure since
February to get around a cap limiting its ability to add more
foreign investors.  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Group already owns
26 percent stake and Air NZ has an 18 percent share, according
to  data compiled  by Bloomberg.  The investment by Singapore Air and Etihad’s purchase of a
10 percent stake this year would have been impossible under the
previous structure, which mandated that the company be majority
Australian owned.  Bigger Fleet  The heads of Virgin Australia’s major alliance partners
Etihad, Air NZ and Delta have all backed the enhanced tie-up
with Singapore Air and none are in talks to seek a board seat at
Virgin Australia, Borghetti said.  Virgin Australia will increase its fleet to 139 aircraft
and more than 9,000 employees following the deals, according to
a statement. The  Singapore  Air investment has already been
approved by Australia’s foreign investment regulator, Virgin
said.  For Singapore Air, the deal expands its presence in
Australia as it faces rising competition from Middle East
carriers on flights connecting the country to  Europe . The
airline also owns a stake in Virgin Atlantic, Richard Branson’s
U.K. carrier.  The deal marks a return to Australia for Singapore Air,
which previously had a foothold through a stake in Air NZ. The
New Zealand carrier owned Ansett Holdings Ltd., which was
Australia’s No. 2 carrier until its collapse following the Sept.
11 2001 attacks. Singapore Air subsequently wrote down and sold
off its Air NZ stake following Ansett’s failure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  