-- Sky Cycling Team Says De Jongh Leaves After Admitting Doping
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-10-29T18:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/sky-cycling-team-says-de-jongh-leaves-after-admitting-doping.html
Team Sky, whose rider Bradley Wiggins won this year’s Tour de  France , said sports director
Steven de Jongh left the team after admitting to doping while he
was a professional rider.  The Dutchman is the third Sky coach to leave this month.
Four days ago, the team said race coach Bobby Julich left after
admitting doping as a rider in the late 1990s, and yesterday
another sports director, Sean Yates, retired from professional
cycling.  De Jongh, 38, left after telling Sky officials that he had
take a “banned substance” earlier in his career. The 38-year-
old rode for Rabobank between 2000 and 2005 and for Quickstep-
Innergetic and Team Quick Step between 2006 and 2009, according
to his website.  “There’s no doubt about Steven’s work with us or his
approach,” team principal Dave Brailsford said today in a
statement on the squad’s website. “He’s been a highly-valued
sports director and colleague over three seasons. Steven
deserves our respect for the courage he’s shown in being honest
about the past and it’s right that we do our best to support
him.”  The resignations come after cycling’s ruling body endorsed
a decision by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency to strip  Lance Armstrong  of his seven Tour de France titles and banned the
American from the sport. Sky has implemented a zero-tolerance
policy on doping.  The team said the 52-year-old Yate’s departure was not
prompted by any “admissions or disclosures.” Yates has been in
the sport for three decades, and his career has included spells
on the same teams as Armstrong. Earlier this month Yates told
the British Broadcasting Corp. he’d never seen any indication of
“anything dodgy” going on while working with the Texan.  Julich left Oct. 25. The Texan, riding for Cofidis,
finished third in the Tour in 1998, the year that the Festina
team was kicked out because of a doping scandal. Julich never
finished in the top 10 after that year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  