-- Softbank Succeeds Where Shirakawa Struggled on M&A Deals
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a ,   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2012-10-29T12:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/softbank-succeeds-where-shirakawa-struggled-on-m-a-deals.html
Japan’s biggest corporations are
weakening the yen through record takeovers of everything from a
U.S. phone company to a Swiss drugmaker, after central bank
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s attempts to halt the currency’s
rise proved fleeting.  The yen has depreciated 5.5 percent this year, the most
among peers in Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes,
as companies from  Softbank Corp. (9984)  to  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  exchanged the
currency for the equivalent of $103 billion to pay for overseas
mergers and acquisitions. That’s the most in data going back to
1987 and 13 percent above the $91.3 billion in all of 2011.
Options show traders see further weakness, paying record
premiums for contracts that profit if the yen weakens.  The combination of an appreciating currency and stunted
economic growth is prompting Japanese companies to buy overseas
as official efforts to boost exports have failed. Since reaching
a postwar record of 75.35 per dollar a year ago, 44 trillion yen
($553 billion) in asset purchases and intervention have left it
28 percent stronger than its 10-year average. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg say the central bank will probably loosen
monetary policy at a meeting tomorrow.  “The BOJ’s easing on its own hasn’t been very effective,”
Hiroshi Morikawa, an economist in  Tokyo  at the Institute for
International Monetary Affairs, which conducts research projects
commissioned by the government, said by phone on Oct. 26. “Even
if the BOJ plays its tune, the yen won’t weaken unless
businesses get up to dance.”  Currency Trading  The yen fell for eight days through Oct. 22, the longest
streak in seven years, and reached 80.38 per dollar on Oct. 26,
a four-month low. It was little changed at 79.60 as of 12:29
p.m. London time following a 0.4 percent decline last week.  Prices for currency options are signaling the slide will
continue. The three-month 25-delta risk reversal rate, which
measures market sentiment for the dollar against the yen,
climbed to 0.75 percent on Oct. 19, the highest on record going
back to 2003 and reflecting greater demand for rights to buy the
greenback versus those to sell. The rate was minus 0.255 percent
at the start of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures traders are losing confidence in the yen’s
strength, building a so-called  net short  position in the
currency for the first time since May.  Bullish Reversal  Wagers that it will fall against the dollar exceeded those
betting on a gain by 18,196 contracts, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed. In
January, there was a net long position of 59,657 contracts, or
the most since March 2008.  The yen has traditionally been a haven for investors
seeking safety during times of financial turmoil.  Because  Japan  has more trade and investment inflows than
outflows, the country can finance deficits and the world’s
biggest debt burden without relying on foreigners, who hold 8.7
percent of its government bonds, according to BOJ figures.
Overseas investors own about 50 percent of U.S. Treasuries,
Treasury Department data show.  Japan’s economy, which has fallen to No. 3 in the world
behind  China ’s, probably failed to expand last quarter and may
grow 0.2 percent in the final three months of this year,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Lagging Behind  The nation’s growth trailed the average of other major
economies as domestic businesses cut wages to match falling
prices for their products, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sony Corp. (6758) , the maker of Bravia televisions and Cyber-shot
cameras, and  Sharp Corp. (6753) , Japan’s largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, have fired workers and sought to cut expenses
by outsourcing production to other manufacturers as the yen’s
strength made their products more expensive overseas and reduced
repatriated income.  Sony said Oct. 19 it plans to reduce about 2,000 workers by
the end of fiscal 2012 through buyouts. Sharp is cutting more
than 10,000 jobs, people with knowledge of the plans said last
month, declining to be identified because the matter isn’t
public.  Elpida Memory Inc., Japan’s largest maker of dynamic random
access memory chips, sought bankruptcy protection in February.
Honda Motor Co. today cut its full-year profit forecast 20
percent, citing the exchange rate.  Shrinking Exports  Japan’s exports fell 10.3 percent in September from a year
earlier, the fourth-consecutive decline and the most since the
aftermath of last year’s quake, the latest government data
showed. Shipments to China plunged 14.1 percent.  Exporters break even if the yen is at 82 per dollar or
weaker, according to an annual government  survey  released on
Feb. 28. The BOJ’s latest Tankan report showed the country’s
large manufacturers expect it will average 79.06 in the year
through March 2013.  Stymied at home, Japanese companies are selling yen to
invest overseas. Foreign direct investment, which includes
mergers, stock purchases, lending and spending on expanding
factories or branches, jumped 46 percent for the first eight
months of 2012 to 6.27 trillion yen, the most since the record
6.51 trillion yen in 2008, official data show.  “Thanks to the yen’s strength, overseas assets have become
substantially cheaper and that’s boosting acquisitions abroad,”
Minori Uchida, Tokyo head of global market research at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit of Japan’s biggest financial
group by market value, said by phone on Oct. 23.  Softbank Spree  The spree is being led by Tokyo-based Softbank, Japan’s No.
3 mobile phone company, which agreed Oct. 15 to buy a 70 percent
stake in  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  of Overland Park,  Kansas , for $20.1
billion. That’s equivalent to about 1.6 trillion yen, compared
to the 4.5 trillion yen it would have cost to buy a similar
stake five years ago when the yen averaged 117.79.  Marubeni said in May it would purchase Gavilon Group LLC,
based in Omaha,  Nebraska , the third-largest U.S. grain
merchandiser, for $3.6 billion, the biggest deal for Japanese
buyers this year after Softbank’s acquisition.  Bloomberg data shows that Japanese companies have been
purchasers in 656 cross-border deals worth $103 billion so far
this year, compared with $91.3 billion in 832 deals in 2011.
Trading companies Mitsui & Co., Mitsubishi Corp. and Marubeni
were the most acquisitive.  “A deal as large as Softbank’s serves as a reminder that
cash-rich companies in this country would rather invest overseas
than domestically,” Masafumi Yamamoto, chief foreign-exchange
strategist in Tokyo at Barclays Plc, said by phone on Oct. 24.  Barclays predicts the yen will drop to 82 per dollar by
year-end, and to 87 by the end of 2013.  Government Support  The government began a 10 trillion yen program last year
using dollars from its $1.2 trillion of foreign-exchange
reserves to help domestic companies acquire overseas assets, a
package Vice Finance Minister  Tsutomu Okubo  said may be extended
beyond its March 31 expiry date.  Shirakawa said in August the strong yen gave companies a
good “chance” at mergers and acquisitions.  Purchases abroad may help strengthen the yen as companies
bring home earnings and convert the proceeds back into their
home currency.  The flows already are the primary contributor to the
surplus in the nation’s current account, the broadest measure of
trade. The gauge widened in August for the first time in 18
months, expanding to 454.7 billion yen from a year earlier, the
Finance Ministry said earlier this month.  ‘One-Sided’  “To think of Japan’s M&A activity overseas as producing
only weakness in the yen would be one-sided,” Daisuke Karakama,
a market economist in Tokyo at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., a
unit of the country’s third-largest banking group by market
value, said by phone on Oct. 23. “If those deals are
successful, the resulting profits will make their way back into
Japan.”  The yen may also gain against the dollar as U.S. central
bankers expand the supply of dollars in the economy. The Federal
Reserve said Sept. 13 it would buy $40 billion a month in
mortgage bonds for an unlimited period, on top of $2.3 trillion
in stimulus since 2008.  BOJ policy makers will probably expand its stimulus
measures at a meeting tomorrow, according to all but one of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The central bank held off
on easing further Oct. 5 after boosting its asset-purchase
program in September.  That difference in central bank firepower will help the yen
rally against its U.S. counterpart, according to Monex Europe
Ltd., the most-accurate dollar-yen forecaster in the past six
quarters, according to rankings by Bloomberg. The yen will
strengthen to 78 by the end of next year, Monex predicts.  ‘Tight’ Range  “The Fed is really the ultimate, big central bank to deal
with, and I think they trump the BOJ,” Eimear Daly, a London-
based currency market analyst at Monex, said in an Oct 25
telephone interview. “We’ll be back under this 80 level and
back in to the tight trading range we saw before.”  The 8.15 yen spread between the Japanese currency’s lowest
and highest points this year is the smallest since 1973 when
exchange controls ended, Bloomberg data show. As currency
volatility cooled, overseas M&A heated up.  Seiji Maehara, appointed economy minister in Prime Minister
Yoshihiko Noda’s Cabinet Oct. 1, has increased pressure on the
central bank. He attended the BOJ’s last meeting, the first
minister to do so in nine years, and has proposed it buy foreign
bonds to weaken the yen. Shirakawa, due to step down in April,
has resisted, saying such purchases amount to currency
intervention, which is the government’s purview.  Inflation Target  Japan hasn’t intervened to influence the direction of its
current since Nov. 4, the last in a series of sales in 2011 that
totaled 14.3 trillion yen, the third-largest annual sum in the
data going back to 1991.  The currency reached its peak of 76.03 this year on Feb. 1,
13 days before Shirakawa surprised investors by announcing a 1
percent inflation target and expanded the BOJ’s asset-purchase
fund. The yen went on to weaken more than 8 percent against the
dollar in the next four weeks.  “Japanese companies are vigilantly looking for
opportunities outside,” Makoto Noji, a foreign-exchange
strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo, a unit of
Japan’s second-biggest financial group, said by phone on Oct.
16. “There’s no reason for them to remain in the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  