-- Soybeans Fall Most in 4 Weeks on Supply; Corn Declines
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-10-29T19:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/soybeans-fall-most-in-two-weeks-on-supply-outlook-corn-steady.html
Soybeans fell the most in four weeks
on speculation that improving weather for crops in  Brazil  and
 Argentina  will reduce demand for supplies from the U.S. Corn
also declined.  Rains will boost depleted soil moisture and bolster
planting in parts in central and eastern Brazil,  World Weather
Inc.  said in a note. Soybean planting in the country was 28
completed on Oct. 26, up from the prior five-year average of 24
percent, consultant Safras e Mercado said in a  report . Drier
weather in the next two weeks will firm muddy soils for farm
machinery and quicken planting in Argentina, World Weather said.  “Soybeans are falling with improved South American  weather
forecasts  for rapid planting progress,” Greg Grow, the director
of agribusiness at Archer Financial Services Inc. in Chicago,
said in a telephone interview. “Weather conditions appear
favorable for big crops in  South America .”  Soybean futures for January delivery dropped 2.2 percent to
close at $15.2975 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, the biggest decline for a most-active contract since Oct.
1.  Brazil is forecast to take over from the U.S. this year as
the world’s biggest producer and exporter, according to the
Department of Agriculture. Argentina is the largest shipper of
soy-based animal feed and vegetable oil.  Corn futures for December delivery fell 0.1 percent to
$7.37 a bushel on the CBOT, the sixth straight decline and the
longest slump since March 2011. The grain has dropped 13 percent
since reaching a record $8.49 on Aug. 10 amid slowing demand.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s weekly report on crop
progress won’t be issued as scheduled today after Washington
offices were shut because of  Hurricane Sandy .  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  