-- SpaceX Completes First Cargo Mission in Commercial Spaceflight
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-10-29T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/spacex-completes-first-cargo-mission-in-commercial-spaceflight.html
Space Exploration Technologies
Corp., headed by billionaire Elon Musk, completed the first
regular cargo mission in commercial spaceflight with a
splashdown in the Pacific Ocean.  After detaching from the International Space Station, the
company’s unmanned spacecraft parachuted into the water about
250 miles off the coast of southern California at 12:22 p.m.
local time yesterday.  The closely held company, known as SpaceX, has a $1.6
billion contract with the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration for at least a dozen resupply flights to the
station. NASA is relying on Hawthorne, California-based SpaceX
and Dulles, Virginia-based  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  to do the work
after retiring its shuttle fleet last year.  “This historic mission signifies the restoration of
America’s ability to deliver and return critical space station
cargo,” Musk said in a statement after the company recovered
the craft.  SpaceX’s Dragon capsule was carrying almost 2,000 pounds of
supplies, including science experiments and biological samples.
It’s the only spacecraft capable of returning a significant
amount of cargo from the station.  The company sent four boats to the area to recover the
supply ship, including a 100-foot-long vessel with a crane to
lift the vehicle onto its deck, SpaceX said.  ‘American Ingenuity’             The spacecraft was shipped to a port near Los Angeles,
where  NASA  officials will within days retrieve time-sensitive
cargo such as refrigerated blood samples, NASA said. The capsule
itself and its remaining supplies will be taken to the company’s
McGregor, Texas, facility for processing, the agency said.  “We are reminded American ingenuity is alive and well,”
NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said in a statement.  The agency plans to begin flying astronauts on private
spacecraft in 2017. It currently relies on  Russia  for rides to
space, paying about $63 million per astronaut. NASA wants
companies to transport crew and cargo to Earth orbit so it can
focus on missions to asteroids and Mars.  SpaceX launched the craft atop a Falcon 9 rocket on Oct. 7
from Cape Canaveral,  Florida . It docked with the station three
days later. The company accomplished a similar feat on May 25
during a test mission, becoming the first to do so. SpaceX’s
second regular flight to resupply the space station is planned
for Jan. 18.  Orbital plans to test its new  Antares (ANT)  rocket designed for
station missions in December. A test flight to the station has
been delayed to the first or second quarter of 2013. The company
has a $1.9 billion contract with NASA for eight resupply
missions.  Engine Failure  SpaceX is still investigating why one of the rocket’s nine
engines suddenly lost pressure and shut down during the Oct. 7
launch.  A team of engineers from SpaceX and NASA will continue to
“analyze all data in an effort to determine root cause and will
apply those findings to future flights,” the company said in
the same statement.  The failure caused the loss of an  Orbcomm Inc. (ORBC)  satellite
that was flying in the rocket as a secondary payload.  The Orbcomm satellite, a prototype for a communications
network, was placed in a lower-than-expected orbit because the
SpaceX rocket didn’t have enough fuel for a second burn of the
upper-stage engine to take it higher and safely out of range of
the space station.  As a result, the satellite began to fall and re-entered the
atmosphere on Oct. 10, according to Jonathan McDowell, an
astronomer at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics
who analyzed surveillance data from U.S. Strategic Command.  ‘Burned Up’  “My inference is that it burned up,” McDowell said in a
telephone interview. “From what I can tell, it came down a
little west of  Vancouver  in the northeast Pacific.”  The Fort Lee, New Jersey-based provider of wireless
messaging services filed an insurance claim for a “total loss”
of the satellite, Orbcomm said in an Oct. 11 statement. The
policy’s $10 million limit would largely offset the expected
cost of the prototype and associated launch services, it said.  Spokesmen for Orbcomm didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Orbcomm plans to launch more satellites on two Falcon 9
flights in 2013 and 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  