-- Spain Sets Discount for Bad Bank Assets, Seeks Investors
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-10-30T14:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/spain-sets-discount-for-bad-bank-assets-seeks-private-investors.html
Spain ’s bad bank will buy foreclosed
real estate assets at an average discount of 63 percent as the
state seeks investors to become shareholders in the 60 billion-
euro ($77 billion) facility, the bank-rescue fund said.  The bad bank, known as SAREB, will apply an average
discount of 46 percent to gross book value on loans to
developers, the so-called FROB rescue fund said in a
presentation yesterday in Madrid. Nationalized lenders will
transfer 45 billion euros of assets to the bad bank, while other
lenders with capital shortfalls may transfer about 15 billion
euros, FROB Chairman Fernando Restoy said.  Spain is setting up the bad bank, a mechanism also used in
Ireland, to help lenders that receive state aid sell real estate
that has plunged in value. The creation of the vehicle is a
condition of a European bailout of as much as 100 billion euros
for Spain’s banking industry agreed to in July. The transfer
values shouldn’t be a “reference” for the property held on the
books of the rest of the banking industry, Restoy said.  “A positive sign would be if we see an investor come in
after they’ve run the rule over the valuations and determine
that there could be a return on these assets at these
discounts,” said Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura
International Plc. in  Madrid . “They could be right or they
could be wrong but it would send a positive message.”  ‘Conservative’ Estimate  Spain will discuss the planned structure of the bad bank
with potential investors in coming days. The government aims to
keep its stake in the entity below 50 percent to avoid including
it in national accounts, Restoy said. The vehicle, which will
exist for as long as 15 years, will be profitable, with a 14
percent to 15 percent annual return on equity as a
“conservative” estimate, he said.  “For foreclosed assets, the transfer prices seem
reasonable but on the loans side they haven’t been tough enough
and this will mean the vehicle will generate losses,” said
Mikel Echavarren, chief executive officer of Irea, a Madrid-
based financial adviser.  Foreclosed Land  Echavarren said he was also skeptical about the estimates
given for the possible future return for the vehicle, whose
equity will be equivalent to about 8 percent of total assets.  “How can they predict that?” Echavarren said in a phone
interview. “To make a 15-year business plan in Spain on the
real estate sector today, not even God could do that.”  The discounts include reductions of as much as 80 percent
for foreclosed land, 63 percent for foreclosed unfinished
housing developments and 32 percent for loans to finance
finished apartments, according to the FROB.  It may be too early for investors to decide whether they’ll
put money into the bad bank because details of the assets to be
transferred to it are still too scant, said Simon Martin, head
of research and strategy at Tristan Capital Partners, a real
estate investment company in  London  with 3 billion euros of
assets under management.  “There isn’t much to go on at this stage,” said Martin.
“It’s sparse on detail so I’d say it’s a step forward but for
us to draw conclusions we would need a lot more detail on the
quality and location of what is going in.”  Stress Test  The starting point for the valuations is the base-case
scenario in a  stress test  carried out by consulting firm Oliver
Wyman, with an additional discount added, FROB said.  Government decrees in February and May ordering banks to
recognize a combined 84 billion euros of losses on real estate
had raised coverage levels for those assets to 45 percent. The
stress test by  Oliver Wyman  published Sept. 28 said seven
Spanish lenders had a combined capital deficit of 59.3 billion
euros in an adverse economic scenario.  The discounts being applied by the bad bank look similar to
those being set in the adverse economic scenario in the Oliver
Wyman stress test, said Owen Callan, an analyst at  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin.  “It doesn’t look like they’ve lowballed it,” he said.  It may prove hard to find private investors to put money
into the bad bank, Andrea Filtri and Andres Williams, analysts
at Mediobanca SpA in London, said in a note, adding that the
government may ask Spanish lenders to “foot the bill.”  ‘Transfer Risk’  “This would trigger an infra-sector transfer risk,
defeating the purpose of the bad bank in the first place,” they
said. The bad bank “helps but it is not an oversized cushion,”
they said, pointing out that it copes with currently recognized
problem loans but doesn’t cover impairments that aren’t linked
to real estate.  Transferring real estate assets to the bad bank will reduce
the capital needs of lenders by 5 billion euros to 6 billion
euros, Restoy said.  Banks including  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the biggest lender in
Spain, have expressed concern about the impact that the transfer
prices imposed for the bad bank could have on their assets as
they book provisions for their own real estate.  “What worries us is the possible relations between
 transfer pricing  to the bad bank and the prices at which we have
valued our assets once we have covered the provisions from the
royal decrees,” Santander CEO Alfredo Saenz told analysts in an
Oct. 25 webcast.  ‘Higher Discount’  “The market will always try to make the read across and
will conclude that the banks should be holding these assets at
the higher discount,”  Antonio Ramirez , an analyst at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Ltd. in London, said in a phone interview. “It
doesn’t look like the regulator will force the banks to take
additional haircuts.”  The Bankia group will transfer 38 billion euros in real
estate loans and 12 billion euros of foreclosed assets by gross
value to the bad bank, FROB Director General Antonio Carrascosa
said at a news conference in Madrid.  Some lenders are stepping up efforts to dispose of real
estate assets before the bad bank comes into effect.  Santander said Oct. 25 it reduced its stock of foreclosed
real estate assets for a second quarter in a row as the gross
amount held on its books slipped to 8.3 billion euros from a
peak of 8.6 billion euros in March.  Banco Sabadell SA (SAB) , a Catalan lender, said the same day it
sold 708 million euros of real estate in the first nine months
of the year as it applied discounts of as much as 50 percent on
assets such as holiday apartment complexes that it owns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Smyth in Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  