-- Starbucks Expects to Squeeze Profits From Juice Stores
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-10-30T17:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/starbucks-expects-to-squeeze-profits-from-juice-stores.html
(Corrects juice-making method in 15th paragraph of story
first published Oct. 29.)  While its caramel frappuccinos and
pound cake haven’t helped Americans’ waistlines,  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
says its juice can.  After opening Evolution Fresh stores in its hometown of
Seattle and Bellevue,  Washington , Starbucks is speeding up
expansion with a shop in San Francisco now operating and another
in Seattle set to open in the next month. It’s also quickly
introducing the cold-bottled juice to grocery stores and may
soon add Evolution Fresh branded food to its juice line-up at
Starbucks cafes.  Chief Executive Officer Howard Schultz has said that
selling juice and better-for-you food is a significant part of
his recent health and wellness pursuit. The company has started
opening Tazo tea shops and selling energy drinks made with
green-coffee extract, all of part of Starbucks’s plan to get
healthier.  “We have to look in the mirror and say: ’We were not
providing as healthy products as we could have,’” Schultz said
during an interview in Houston. “So as the result of that, we
began a significant mission within the company to look at health
and wellness.”  Starbucks, along with restaurant operators including
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , has been trying to improve its image as
Americans become more concerned with high-calorie foods amid a
national obesity epidemic. About 36 percent of adults in the
U.S. are considered  obese , according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. In response, McDonald’s has promoted a
“Favorites Under 400 Calories” menu, while  Dunkin’ Donuts (DNKN) 
advertises so-called DDSmart items such as egg-white wraps and
multigrain bagels.  ‘More Attuned’  American consumers are “more attuned to healthy eating and
what they’re eating,” Dennis Lombardi, executive vice president
at restaurant consultant WD Partners in Dublin,  Ohio , said in an
interview. Starbucks has an “open and uncontested playing
field” to open juice stores in the U.S. as baby boomers and
millennials look for more nutritious food and beverages, he
said.  The first Starbucks shop opened in 1971 in  Seattle ’s Pike
Place Market selling coffee, tea and spices, and has since
expanded to more than 17,600 stores worldwide, including about
10,900 in the U.S.  While the chain hasn’t been known for health food, it has
made some efforts, including introducing sugar-free syrups in
1997 and making 2 percent milk the default for espresso drinks
at U.S. locations in 2006. More recently, the company has
started selling 140-calorie oatmeal, so-called skinny lattes and
smaller-portioned desserts.  Brand Evolution  “Evolution juice is going to take a while to evolve,”
Larry Miller, an Atlanta-based analyst at RBC Capital Markets,
said in an interview. “They’ve talked about it being a billion-
dollar brand, but they’ve said that about a lot of things.
There’s a lot of potential for them if they can crack the code
on health and wellness.”  Starbucks stores with bottled Evolution Fresh juice are
already selling more than they sold of  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s Naked
brand drinks, which are lower priced, Schultz said during the
interview.  Last year, Starbucks removed the word “coffee” from its
logo, paving the way for its recent non-java  acquisitions , which
included Evolution Fresh for $30 million in November 2011.
Analysts project revenue rose 14 percent to $13.3 billion in the
company’s fiscal 2012, the third straight annual gain, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Starbucks  shares  are little
changed this year, compared with a 6.1 percent decline for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Restaurants Index.  Extra Calories  America’s collective weight gain isn’t the result of chili
cheese fries -- it’s the extra 100 or 200 calories a day that
people are consuming, said Margo Wootan, nutrition policy
director at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a
Washington-based consumer advocacy group. For that reason,
diners should still proceed with caution at healthier restaurant
chains, she said.  “You don’t want to overdo it, even on healthy foods,” she
said. “You still have to watch the portion sizes. When you go
into a restaurant that has a healthy reputation, in some ways
you need to be even more vigilant.”  Consumers should limit their juice intake to about six to
eight ounces per serving because, while it may be healthier than
soda, “it’s still a lot of extra calories that most people
can’t afford,” she said. “It’s really much better to get your
fruit from pieces of whole fruit.”  Berrybeet Smoothies  The Evolution Fresh menu includes items such as a 390-
calorie turkey and caramelized onion sandwich for $7 and 230-
calorie berrybeet smoothies. The high-pressure processed juice
is sold on tap at Evolution Fresh stores and bottled at
Starbucks cafes and grocery stores including Supervalu Inc.’s
Albertsons chain, Safeway Inc. locations and  Whole Foods Market
Inc. (WFM)   For breakfast, Evolution Fresh has eggs scrambled with wild
rice for $4.95 and 120-calorie steel-cut oatmeal, while dessert
options are limited to a bite of dark chocolate, a granola bar,
chocolate coconut mousse and an oatmeal cookie.  The stores themselves are a far cry from Starbucks’s earth-
toned cafes. Evolution Fresh eateries have a more modern feel,
with marble countertops and metal furniture, said Arthur Rubinfeld, president of global development and Evolution Fresh
retail. The patent-pending taps, which dispense juices just like
beer on draught, are below a changing video screen touting
nutritional benefits such as antioxidants found in blueberries.  While restaurants hype their tactics to get America to eat
healthier -- listing calorie counts on menu boards, cutting
sodium and fat and selling more produce -- consumers are eating
less fresh fruits and vegetables, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau and Department of Agriculture. Americans ate about 184.8
pounds (84 kilograms) of fresh vegetables a person in 2009, a
7.9 percent drop from 2000, the data show.  Schultz is determined to change that as Starbucks looks to
sell other healthier food and possibly gluten-free items.  “The health and wellness opportunity we have,” he said,
“this is just the beginning of what we think we can do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  