-- Storm Keeps Long Island Jewish Shelter Short of Men for Prayers
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-29T19:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/storm-keeps-long-island-jewish-shelter-short-of-men-for-prayers.html
Moshe Najjar is having a lonely wait
as the South Shore of New York’s Long Island prepares for
 Hurricane Sandy  to arrive. The only Orthodox Jewish man at a
specially created Kosher shelter, he is a minyan of one, lacking
the rest of the 10-man minimum required for many important
prayers.  Evacuated from his home in Cedarhurst, one of the largely
Orthodox Five Towns on Long Island’s southern Atlantic coast,
Najjar, 47, said today he was pleasantly surprised by the
religiously appropriate shelter in the West Hempstead High
School, where men and women can bunk separately and Kosher meals
are served on paper table cloths.  “I was going to go to a hotel, but right now, the
financials are not doing it for me,” Najjar said, wearing a
black trench coat and the traditional yarmulke, or skull cap of
observant Jews.  “I’m looking for a job; I have some leads,” he said.
“Today, tomorrow might not be a good time to be having
interviews.”  Officials have ordered a mandatory evacuation of  Long
Island ’s Nassau County coast as Sandy’s winds, combining with a
nearly full moon and high tides, are expected to send water
surging up to 8 feet deep across the Atlantic Coast and 11 feet
or more on the North Shore, from the normally placid Long Island
Sound. With 230,000 Jews, the fourth largest Jewish population
in the U.S. according to the North American Jewish Data Bank,
Nassau County opened the Kosher shelter to encourage people who
might not otherwise have a place to stay.  ‘Accommodate’ Customs  By midmorning, only 21 people had registered at the center,
and Najjar was the only Jewish man. A clutch of elderly women
sat chatting in a corner. Several dozen green cots, each with a
white Red Cross blanket, stretched across the floor of the
school gym.  “We’re trying to accommodate their customs, and the
shelter is open to all,” said Susan Dubourg, a Red Cross
volunteer managing the shelter.  Not everyone who had come so far appeared to be an
observant Jew, she said. With separate sleeping quarters, the
shelter can house up to 100 people, and in a crunch could sleep
300 if needed, Dubourg said.  “They are definitely well-prepared here,” said John
Rocchetti, 66, an Italian Catholic who grew up in  Brooklyn ’s
predominantly Orthodox Borough Park neighborhood, and was
evacuated from his top-floor apartment in the seaside district
of Far Rockaway.  Kosher Food  “I live in a Jewish neighborhood, and some of my best
friends are Jewish,” he said with a laugh. As a vegetarian, the
retired school-bus driver says he likes the Kosher food at the
shelter.  The lack of arrivals didn’t surprise Chaim Shapiro, a West
Hempstead resident who popped in to the shelter to see how he
and his nearby synagogue could help.  “The community tends to rally around itself; people open
their spare bedrooms to neighbors and family, so I’d guess there
will be less than 100 people here,” he said.  “If they get 10 men here, I’ll tell them to bring over the
siddurim and the Torah,” he added, referring to prayer books
and the scroll of the Old Testament.  When  Hurricane Irene  hit Long Island last August, Najjar
and his then-wife and children didn’t seek out a shelter. “She
said, ’Let’s go hide in the basement.’ She did it, but, Baruch
Hashem, nothing happened,” he said intoning a Hebrew phrase
praising the name of God.  While he follows the Yemenite rite, Najjar welcomed word
from Alan Cabelly, a West Hempstead resident who invited him to
worship at Young Israel of West Hempstead, an Orthodox synagogue
which follows the Ashkenazi traditions of Eastern Europe.  Najjar smiled broadly when he heard there would be enough
men for full prayer at the synagogue, a short walk through the
wind and rain.  “There’s a minyan two blocks away,” he said. “Ashkenzi,
Sephardic -- I swing both ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in West Hempstead,  New York  at 
6758 or  psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 