-- Stricter European Slot Rule for Airlines Opposed by EU Nations
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-10-29T18:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/stricter-european-slot-rule-for-airlines-opposed-by-eu-nations.html
European Union governments opposed a
proposal for airlines to face a stricter EU rule on the use of
takeoff and landing slots, potentially undermining draft
legislation meant to tackle a “capacity crunch” at airports.  EU transport ministers defended current European law
requiring carriers to use airport slots at least 80 percent of
the time in order to retain them the following year. The
European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, last year
proposed to raise the use-it-or-lose-it slot obligation to 85
percent.  “We are not too happy,” European Transport Commissioner
Siim Kallas told reporters after the ministers from the 27-
nation EU reached a preliminary accord on the matter today in
Luxembourg. The outcome is still open because the draft
legislation is also going through the European Parliament, which
has yet to give its verdict.  The number of  Europe ’s saturated airports is due to rise
from five, including  London Heathrow  and Paris Orly, at present
to 19 major hubs over the next two decades without policy
changes, the commission said when proposing the legislation in
December 2011. The commission said this would lead to delays
affecting half of all flights in the EU.  In its draft law, the commission also proposed to permit
EU-wide secondary trading of slots by airlines. Current EU
legislation is silent on the question of slot trading, a
practice permitted in the U.K. and banned in some EU nations
including  Spain .  Restrictions  At their meeting today, the transport ministers endorsed
this provision while adding conditions that could restrict
trading in practice,  Helen Kearns , a spokeswoman for the
Brussels-based commission, said by phone.  The EU Parliament is preparing to vote on the draft
legislation in coming weeks. After that, national governments
will make their position formal and any differences with the
Parliament would have to be resolved through negotiations.  The Cypriot minister for communications and works,
Efthymios Flourentzou, who chaired the Luxembourg ministerial
meeting because Cyprus holds the EU’s rotating presidency, told
reporters that today’s result “is far from being the end of the
story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.ne  