-- Supreme Court Justices May Allow Challenge to Wiretap Law
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-10-29T19:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/supreme-court-justices-may-allow-challenge-to-wiretap-law.html
Several U.S. Supreme Court justices
suggested that a group of lawyers and civil rights activists
should have the right to challenge a federal law allowing
government surveillance of international phone calls and e-mail.  The Obama administration is trying to halt a legal
challenge filed by the  American Civil Liberties Union ,
representing Amnesty International and lawyers, international
rights activists and journalists.  The groups contend the 2008 law violates the Constitution
by allowing the monitoring, with minimal court supervision, of
international communications by Americans who aren’t suspected
of criminal or terrorist activities. The appeal heard today asks
whether the ACLU and its allies can pursue their suit. It
doesn’t address the lawfulness of the wiretapping law itself.  The justices held today’s court session as  Hurricane Sandy 
moved toward Washington.  The groups and people who sued haven’t shown they suffered
harm from surveillance, U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli
told the court.  Their claims “depend upon a cascade of speculation” that
they will be subject to surveillance, Verrilli said.  Justice  Anthony Kennedy  expressed skepticism.  ‘Wide-Reaching Power’  “You are saying that the government has obtained this
extraordinarily wide-reaching power and we have extraordinary
risks that face this country, and the government’s not going to
use it,” Kennedy said. “It’s hard for me to think that the
government isn’t using all of the powers at its command under
the law.”  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said there may be numerous uses
of the law, “but we will never know” because the targets of
surveillance won’t be notified.  “Given that lawyers are unlikely to be the targets of an
investigation, if their conversations would be intercepted,
according to you they’d never have standing,” Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  told Verrilli.  Still, Justice  Antonin Scalia  said the court has had other
cases in which it was clear that nobody would have legal
standing to file a case. In such cases, “it’s none of our
business” under the separation of powers between the branches
of government, he said.  The administration argues that those who sued lack legal
standing because the law is aimed at monitoring communications
by non-Americans outside this country, not the people on the
U.S. end of a phone call or e-mail.  ‘Not Enough’  “It’s not enough, of course, to know that the government
is using the statute” to conduct surveillance, Chief Justice
 John Roberts  told Jameel Jaffer, the lawyer for the groups that
sued. “The whole question is whether or not your clients have
been injured, not whether the statute’s being used.”  The law was enacted following the public disclosure in 2005
that President  George W. Bush , after the 2001 terrorist attacks,
ordered the National Security Agency to intercept telephone
calls between suspected terrorists overseas and their comrades
in the U.S. The surveillance was conducted without court review.  The law protects companies such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  from lawsuits claiming they let the
government use their networks for improper wiretaps.  Appeals Court  The ACLU sued, and the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
New York said the suit could proceed.  The 2008 law requires the government to get authorization
from a special body, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court, to establish wiretaps.  The ACLU says the law’s requirements are so minimal that an
order from the special court can authorize surveillance of
thousands or millions of communications. Barring the lawsuit may
mean people can never challenge the law because they won’t know
they were under surveillance, it says.  The justices will rule by late June. The case is Clapper v.
 Amnesty International  USA, 11-1025.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  