-- Swedish Banks to Direct Excess Cash to Dividends: Nordic Credit
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-10-29T11:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/swedish-banks-to-direct-excess-cash-to-dividends-nordic-credit.html
Sweden’s largest banks, the European
Union’s best-capitalized lenders, are likely to steer excess
capital this year to investors, boosting dividends by an average
16 percent.  The banks,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , SEB AB
and Nordea Bank AB, are required to hold higher capital reserves
than their European peers as Sweden seeks to protect its
taxpayers from future banking crises. Capital ratios that
already exceed the 12 percent target set for 2015 mean most of
the banks have enough cash to increase shareholder payouts.  “We don’t have any ambition to have higher capital levels
than what is beneficial and seen purely from a risk-perspective,
we obviously today have a lot more capital than we need,”
Handelsbanken’s Chief Financial Officer Ulf Riese said by phone
from Stockholm on Oct. 26. “If we find we have too much
capital, we will of course return it to the bank’s
shareholders.”  Handelsbanken may raise its 2012 dividend by 11 percent to
10.8 kronor a share; pay out 11.2 kronor next year and 12 kronor
for 2014, according to  Bloomberg dividend forecasts . Swedbank
will probably increase its dividend for 2012 by 17 percent to
6.2 kronor a share, 6.6 kronor the following year and 7 kronor
for 2014.  SEB AB (SEBA)  may boost it by 20 percent this year to 2.1
kronor, while Nordea Bank by 15 percent to 0.3 euro.  Deutsche, Barclays  Such shareholder rewards would be in contrast to payout
rates at lenders such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Barclays Plc,
which will probably leave their dividend payments unchanged as
they navigate the euro-area debt crisis, according to Bloomberg
dividend estimates. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
 Germany ’s Commerzbank AG are likely to skip any dividend
payments this year, the Bloomberg forecasts show.  Bloomberg’s dividend forecasts are based on seven factors,
including company guidance, analyst estimates, regression
analysis, put-call parity and industry analysis.  Swedbank declined 0.4 krona, or 0.3 percent, to 123.3
kronor as of 12:21 p.m. in  Stockholm  trading. Handelsbanken fell
1.8 kronor, or 0.8 percent, to 229.4 kronor while SEB decreased
0.9 krona, or 1.6 percent, to 54.35 kronor. Nordea lost 0.5
krona, or 0.8 percent, to 60.6 kronor. The Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index dropped 0.6 percent.  Handelsbanken, Swedbank and SEB were the best-capitalized
major lenders in the European Union in the second quarter,
according to a Bloomberg ranking of 20 of the region’s largest
banks. Nordea was No. 6, after retaining earnings, cutting costs
and risky assets in recent quarters. The Swedish banks increased
capital ratios further in the third quarter.  Surplus Capital  “The surplus capital and high dividend levels are very
attractive for investors, and we’ve seen a safe-haven-related
inflow of investors in the Swedish banks,” said Mads Thinggaard, an analyst at Nykredit Markets in Copenhagen.  Shareholders won’t be the only beneficiaries of the Swedish
banks’ high capital levels. The banks themselves have seen their
funding costs tumble and capital inflows from clients soar.  Household deposits at Swedish banks jumped an annual 11
percent to 1.26 trillion kronor ($187 billion) in the three
months through June, while corporate deposits increased 9.7
percent to 2.25 trillion kronor, according to an Aug. 28 report
from the Financial Supervisory Authority in Stockholm.  SEB’s ample capital buffer gives the bank cheaper funding
and means clients “happily” place deposits there, Chief
Executive Officer Annika Falkengren said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television on Oct. 25. Still, having to set aside
bigger reserves than European rivals may in the long run hurt
Swedish banks’ competitiveness, she said.  Core Capital  The Stockholm-based lender probably “has more capital than
we need for the future,” she said, adding that the bank is
awaiting clarification on future regulatory requirements before
working out adequate capital levels and dividends.
Handelsbanken’s Riese also said the bank needs more clarity on
capital rules before it can decide on shareholder payout levels.  SEB’s core Tier 1 capital ratio of 13.3 percent under Basel
III rules is “far above the regulatory requirement,” she said.  Handelsbanken and Swedbank had core Tier 1 capital ratios
of 17.9 percent and 17.3 percent, respectively, at the end of
September. SEB’s core Tier 1 ratio stood at 16.5 percent at the
end of the third quarter, while Nordea’s was 12.2 percent.  Swedbank, which has a core Tier 1 ratio of 14.5 percent
under Basel III rules, including higher risk-weights on Swedish
mortgages, sees a ratio of between 13.5 percent and 14 percent
as adequate in the future, CEO  Michael Wolf  said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television on Oct. 23. He supports the government’s
stricter bank rules.  Position of Strength  “It’s a position of strength to be so well-capitalized in
this economic environment,” he said.  Swedish banks “need to have buffers” because the small
economy is exposed to the vagaries of global changes, he said,
adding that the high capital buffers at the nation’s lenders
have cut their funding costs.  Still, excess capital “is an issue Swedbank will need to
address,” Wolf said, adding that one option is to distribute
the surplus cash to shareholders.  “Swedbank appears to be the best positioned bank ahead of
Basel III and we expect the bank to be overcapitalized by year-
end 2014, which should allow for extraordinary dividends of up
to 12 kronor per share,” Vegard Eid Mediaas and Jon David
Gjertsen, analysts at Pareto Securities ASA in Oslo, said in a
report today. They have a “buy” rating on Swedbank.  Christian Clausen, CEO of Nordea Bank, the Nordic region’s
largest, said it’s already ahead of Swedish government targets
and “can of course keep increasing” the ratio if needed.  Stricter Rules  Sweden , whose bank industry assets are four times the size
of the economy, requires its lenders to target 10 percent core
Tier 1 buffers of their risk-weighted assets next year and 12
percent from 2015.  That compares with the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision’s target of at least 7 percent, while the European
Banking Authority has set a temporary 9 percent target for some
banks. Norway requires its banks to have a ratio, including so-
called transition rules, of 9 percent.  Handelsbanken is now awaiting clarification on new European
and Swedish capital rules before making any decision on what an
adequate capital ratio would be for the bank, Riese said. While
high capital buffers positively affect a bank’s funding costs,
there “is a limit somewhere where that doesn’t matter
anymore,” he said. If Handelsbanken concludes it has too much
capital, it will be distributed to its shareholders, said Riese.  “Technically, doing so would be very easy, either through
an extra dividend as we did in 2009 or through share buybacks,
which we have also used in the past and which would allow us to
continuously adjust our capital levels,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  