-- U.A.E. ’Shocked’ at EU Parliament Resolution on Human Rights
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-10-29T07:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/u-a-e-shocked-at-eu-parliament-resolution-on-human-rights.html
The United Arab Emirates’ Federal
National Council criticized a European Parliament resolution
calling on the Persian Gulf state to rectify alleged human-
rights abuses.  “The FNC is shocked at the way in which the EU Parliament
tackled such a sensitive issue without approaching the U.A.E.,”
the council said in a  statement  published on state-run news
agency WAM. “The FNC hoped that the EU Parliament had not
harried in taking such a decision and viewed the issue with
neutrality and objectivity.” The council has the power to
examine and amend federal laws.  The 27-nation European Parliament called for the U.A.E.
government to respect human-rights freedoms, to conduct thorough
and unbiased investigations into the allegations of assault, and
for the immediate release of prisoners of conscience and
activists, according to the Oct. 26 resolution.  The U.A.E. arrested more than 64 people tied to the
domestic Islamist group known as Islah, the Parliament said.
Some of the detainees may have been tortured and denied legal
representation, the European Union assembly said.  The Emirates Human Rights Association has determined that
the people arrested haven’t been subjected to torture, its
chairman, Abdul Ghaffar Hussain, said last week.  The U.A.E. authorities closed two non-governmental
organizations that promote democracy in the region this year,
notably the Dubai office of the National Democratic Institute
and the Abu Dhabi office of the German pro-democracy think tank
Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, the EU Parliament said.  U.A.E.’s Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash said the resolution “throws accusations haphazardly
without substantiating facts,” according to a  statement 
published on the ministry’s website.  The nation requested a deferral of the resolution to give
the U.A.E. a chance to respond, “but the Parliament’s procedure
made it difficult to consider that request,” Gargash said. “As
a result, the final resolution came prejudiced and unfair which
impacted its credibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  