-- U.K. October House Prices Fall for Fourth Month, Hometrack Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-10-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/u-k-october-house-prices-fall-for-fourth-month-hometrack-says.html
U.K.  house prices  fell for a fourth
month in October and a property-market recovery is unlikely
without sustained economic growth, Hometrack Ltd. said.  Prices declined 0.1 percent from September and 0.4 percent
from a year earlier, the London-based property research group
said in an e-mailed statement today. The annual decline was the
smallest in two years. Sales jumped 9.2 percent as prices of old
housing stock were lowered, it said.  While data on Oct. 25 showed the U.K. exited recession in
the third quarter, Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said
last week that  the recovery  is “slow and uncertain.” Lending
growth remains subdued, with mortgage figures later today
forecast to show approvals staying at less than half their pre-
crisis average.  “The foundation of any national and sustainable recovery
in the housing market rests on growth in the wider economy and
household incomes,”  Richard Donnell , Hometrack’s director of
research, said in the statement. Demand for homes is “likely to
slow down in the run-up to the year-end with agents looking to
push through as many sales as possible.”  A measure of demand for homes increased 0.3 percent in
October from the previous month, boosted by a 3.9 percent surge
in London, the report showed. The number of homes being put on
the market rose 1.4 percent.  U.K.  mortgage approvals  probably rose to 48,700 in
September from 47,665 in August, economists said in a survey
before a  Bank of England  report today. That compares with an
average of about 103,000 in the decade through 2007.  Price Pessimism  The central bank is trying to boost credit growth with its
Funding for Lending program, which began in August, and a house-
price survey today said property pessimism has eased. Rightmove
Plc showed the proportion of people forecasting higher prices in
12 months rose to 29 percent from 22 percent a year ago.  In a separate report, Lloyds Bank said an index of  U.K.
company optimism  rose to 17 in October, the highest in six
months, from 10 in September. Still, a gauge of expectations for
trading prospects fell to 26 from 43, the lowest level this
year. The bank surveyed 300 companies with sales exceeding 1
million pounds ($1.6 million) from Oct. 1 to Oct. 15.  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien, Eddie Buckle  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  