-- U.K. Stocks Drop for First Time in Four Days; BT Falls
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-10-29T17:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/u-k-stocks-decline-for-first-time-in-four-days-bt-drops.html
U.K. stocks fell for the first time
in four days as  Hurricane Sandy  headed for the U.S. East Coast,
potentially affecting 60 million people.  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  slid 1.5 percent after a person familiar with
the matter said an unfavorable regulatory decision will reduce
the company’s wholesale revenue.  Hargreaves Lansdown Plc (HL/)  dropped
4.2 percent after Citigroup Inc. cut its recommendation on the
shares.  Premier Foods Plc (PFD)  jumped to the highest level in almost
five months after a report said the company may seek a bid.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  fell 11.61 points, or 0.2 percent, to 5,795.1
at the close in London. The equity benchmark has  rallied 10
percent from this year’s low  on June 1 as the  European Central
Bank  announced an unlimited bond-buying plan and the Federal
Reserve started a third round of quantitative easing. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index lost 0.2 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index retreated 0.5 percent.  Markets have made “a quiet start to the week as Hurricane
Sandy hits the U.S.” said  Michael Hewson , a market analyst at
CMC Markets Plc in London. “Speculation about the timing of a
Spanish bailout request continue to dominate investor’s
thoughts.”  In the U.S., the Securities and Exchange Commission may
extend the trading shutdown through Oct. 30. The securities
industry deemed the storm, which is expected today on the shores
of southern New Jersey, too risky for workers to travel.  The volume of shares changing hands on the FTSE 100 Index
companies was 41 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Spain, Italy  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said today he will
seek a sovereign bailout when he judges it’s in his country’s
interests. He spoke at a joint press conference in Madrid with
his Italian counterpart  Mario Monti , who signaled last week he
would like Spain to seek a full sovereign bailout from the
European Union.  European policy makers are awaiting a final report due Nov.
12 on Greece’s progress in meeting its debt targets. Officials
from the European Commission, the ECB and the International
Monetary Fund proposed a restructuring of Greek debt that would
require public banks to take heavy losses, Spiegel reported
yesterday, without saying where it got the information.  BT, the U.K.’s largest fixed-line phone company, lost 1.5
percent to 213.9 pence. A regulatory decision about the amount
it charges mobile-phone operators for certain calls may reduce
wholesale revenue according to a person familiar with the
matter. The company will report second-quarter earnings on Nov.
1.  Hargreaves Lansdown slid 4.2 percent to 727.5 pence after
Citigroup lowered its rating on the shares to sell from neutral.  BP Plc (BP/)  slid 1.5 percent to 425 pence after crude oil prices
dropped for the first time in three days.  Premier Foods jumped 11 percent to 101.5 pence, the highest
price since June 1. The company has asked private equity firms
to consider buying it for 1.2 billion pounds, Sunday Telegraph
reported citing unidentified people close to the matter.  Sage Group Plc (SGE)  advanced 1.8 percent to 309.8 pence after
Citigroup upgraded the shares to buy from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  