-- U.K. Submarine Development Reignites Nuclear Tensions
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-10-29T14:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/u-k-invests-568-million-in-submarine-development.html
The U.K. government’s investment of
353 million pounds ($568 million) in the development of
submarines reignited a dispute over nuclear-weapons policy in
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  accused Conservative
Defense Secretary Philip Hammond of “jumping the gun” today
after U.K. media reported that the investment amounted to a
government commitment to retaining the submarine-based Trident
nuclear deterrent, which Clegg’s  Liberal Democrats  oppose.  “Having seen the papers this morning, I think some people
are jumping the gun on this Trident decision,” Clegg said in
London today. “The coalition agreement is crystal clear -- it
will not be changed, it will not be undermined, it will not be
contradicted. The final decision on Trident replacement will not
be taken until 2016, however much other people may not like it
that way.”  The issue of whether to replace Trident has dogged
relations in the coalition, with Cameron’s Conservatives
favoring its replacement. Cameron’s spokeswoman Vickie Sheriff,
asked by reporters in London today about Clegg’s statement, said
that “we are committed to an at-sea nuclear deterrent.”  Hammond used a visit to the Faslane naval base in western
Scotland today to announce 315 million pounds of funding for  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/)  and 38 million pounds for  Babcock International
Group Plc. (BAB)  The work will sustain 1,200 jobs, he said in an e-
mailed statement. It follows the announcement of 350 million
pounds for design work on a new generation of submarines earlier
this year.  ‘Ultimate Safeguard’  “Our continuous submarine-based nuclear deterrent is the
ultimate safeguard of our national security and the government
is committed to maintaining it, both now and in the future,”
Hammond said. “This latest expenditure for the next generation
of nuclear-armed submarines is an investment in U.K. security
and the British economy, sustaining high-quality jobs and vital
skills.”  The funding announced today is part of 3 billion pounds
earmarked for the design phase of the Successor nuclear-armed
submarine program in May 2011, the defense ministry said. The
Successors are intended to replace the current Vanguard class of
ships starting in 2028.  The funding will allow BAE to transition its design teams
to the strategic nuclear submarine effort now that activities on
the Astute-class attack submarines are winding down, John
Hudson, the managing director for submarines, said in an
interview. Another 100 engineers will be hired in the next year
and 300 more thereafter for detailed design of the vessel.  Faslane Jobs  The project is in the functional design phase where large
mechanical systems are specified and many supplier decisions are
taken, Hudson said. That phase runs until about 2015. The latest
block of money pays for design activities lasting into 2014,
Hudson said.  Hammond also used the visit to  Scotland  to highlight the
contribution Trident makes to the Scottish economy ahead of the
referendum on Scottish independence due in late 2014.  “We are confident that the Scottish people will choose to
remain part of the  United Kingdom ,” Hammond said. “The Faslane
complex is the largest employment site in Scotland with over
6,500 jobs underpinning the local economy.”  The government has “no plans to move the nuclear deterrent
from the Clyde,” Hammond said. “On the contrary, we intend to
move the Astute and Trafalgar-class attack submarines to
Faslane, creating a further 1,500 jobs. The Scottish government
needs to explain how their policy would benefit Scotland’s
economy and safeguard Scottish jobs.”  Squandered Cash  The  Scottish National Party , which is campaigning for
independence from the rest of the U.K., criticized Hammond’s
argument.  “The vast amount of taxpayers’ cash squandered by the U.K.
government on designing the new Trident system -- during a
period of austerity, and cuts to services and benefits by the
Tory-led coalition -- is a staggering waste of money,” Scottish
Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said in an e-mailed
statement. “Trident supports only a fraction of the number of
jobs claimed.”  Although the go-ahead for the Vanguard-replacement purchase
is not planned until 2016, BAE will be allowed to order some
long-lead items in advance to make sure the overall schedule can
be met, Hudson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  