-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Climb to Four-Month High in September
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-29T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/u-k-mortgage-approvals-climb-to-four-month-high-in-september.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  rose to a
four-month high in September as the Bank of England’s new
credit-easing plan boosted the availability of home loans.  Lenders granted 50,024 mortgages, compared with a revised
47,921 the previous month, the Bank of England said today in
London. Economists forecast that approvals would gain to 48,700
from an initially reported 47,665 in August, based on the median
forecast of 18 economists in Bloomberg survey.  While approvals increased, Hometrack Ltd. said today that
house prices fell in October for a fourth month and a property-
market recovery is unlikely without sustained economic growth.
Bank of England policy makers must decide whether to inject more
stimulus into the economy next week as they assess the impact of
their  Funding for Lending Scheme , which aims to provide banks
with cheap funding.  “The decline in house prices should be limited by recent
healthy employment growth and low interest rates, while
mortgages could become increasingly available helped by the
FLS,” Howard Archer, an economist at IHS Global Insight in
London, said before the data was released. “However, we are
doubtful that the economy can grow fast enough on a sustained
basis in the near term at least to really help the housing
market.”  Net mortgage lending was 491 million pounds ($798 million)
in September, while consumer credit was 1.2 billion pounds, the
highest since February 2008, the central bank said. Credit-card
lending was 307 million pounds while other personal lending was
893 million pounds, also the highest since February 2008.  BOE Program  The central bank is trying to boost credit growth with its
Funding for Lending program, which began in August, and a house-
price survey today said property pessimism has eased. The Bank
of England said on Sept. 25 that 13 banks had signed up to the
FLS so far and initially may be able to borrow 61 billion pounds
in total under the plan.  Banks have curtailed lending since the financial crisis to
strengthen balance sheets. The lack of credit supply has hurt
Britain’s housing market. Mortgage approvals are still only
about half the monthly average of 103,000 in the decade to 2007
before the financial crisis struck.  Prices declined 0.1 percent this month from September and
0.4 percent from a year earlier, London-based property research
group Hometrack said in an e-mailed statement today. In a
separate report, Rightmove Plc showed the proportion of people
forecasting higher prices in 12 months rose to 29 percent from
22 percent a year ago.  A measure of M4 money-supply growth the bank uses to assess
the effectiveness of its asset purchases slowed to 7.4 percent
in the three months through September on an annualized basis,
the central bank said. That compares with a 7.9 percent gain in
the three months through August. The gauge excludes financial
companies that specialize in intermediating between banks, such
as holding companies and non-bank credit grantors.  Total M4 rose 0.2 percent in September from August and was
down 3.5 percent from a year earlier, the Bank of England said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  