-- U.S. Supreme Court Debates Copyright ‘Gray Market’ Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-10-29T20:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/u-s-supreme-court-debates-copyright-gray-market-case.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  raised
questions about the multibillion-dollar trade in goods outside
authorized distribution channels, hearing arguments in the case
of a graduate student sued for selling foreign-edition textbooks
in the U.S. at discount prices.  The copyright dispute may restrict the so-called gray
market, with ramifications for publishers, retailers,
entertainment companies, manufacturers and consumers. Retailers
that offer gray-market products, led by  eBay Inc . and Costco
Wholesale Corp., are seeking limits on copyrights. The motion
picture, music, software and publishing industries say the gray
market illegally undercuts their U.S. sales.  The high court case concerns Supap Kirtsaeng, who was
ordered to pay  John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A)  $600,000 for importing the
publisher’s copyrighted textbooks from his native  Thailand  and
selling them in the U.S. for a profit.  Allowing copyright holders to sue over such importations
would give them “endless, eternal downstream control over sales
and rentals” of their goods, Kirtsaeng’s lawyer, E. Joshua Rosenkranz, told the court. That would give companies an
incentive to send their manufacturing overseas, he said.  “Your reading is, essentially, once a copy is sold
anywhere, the copyright owner loses control of distribution
everywhere,” Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  told Rosenkranz.  Toyota Example  Justice  Stephen Breyer  asked Wiley & Sons’s lawyer  Theodore Olson  whether a ruling for the publisher would mean that someone
who bought a Toyota that included copyrighted sound and global-
positioning systems couldn’t sell the vehicle without getting
permission from the copyright holders.  Olson said that in some cases an implied license, or “fair
use” doctrine, would protect people.  Gray-market products are genuine goods that retailers
acquire through unauthorized channels to exploit the lower
prices manufacturers sometimes charge overseas. Imports of those
products to the U.S. cost makers as much as $63 billion in sales
a year, according to a 2009 Deloitte LLP analysis conducted for
 Bloomberg News .  The case poses a question that deadlocked the Supreme Court
4-4 in a 2010 clash between Costco and Swatch Group AG’s Omega
unit over discounted watches.  Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part in that case and now
stands to cast the deciding vote.  Original Sale  The dispute turns on a legal doctrine that says a copyright
holder can profit only from the original sale of a product. In
1998, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the so-called
first-sale doctrine applies to U.S.-made products that are sold
overseas. The ruling meant that purchasers could bring those
goods back into the U.S. to sell or distribute even if the
copyright holder objected.  The question now is whether that same reasoning applies
when companies manufacture goods abroad. The New York-based 2nd
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that it doesn’t, siding with
Wiley and upholding the jury award.  The appeals court pointed to a provision in the 1976
Copyright Act that limits the first-sale doctrine to goods
“lawfully made under this title.” The panel said foreign-made
goods don’t fit that description.  Chinese Rights  Kagan told Rosenkranz that a copyright isn’t “one right
that applies everywhere in the world.” Instead, she said, “You
have your U.S. rights and you have your Chinese rights, and you
have your rights under each jurisdiction’s law.”  “Your position is essentially to say that, when I sell my
Chinese rights to somebody, I’m also selling my U.S. rights to
that same person, because the person who has the Chinese rights
can just turn around and import the goods,” Kagan said.  Deputy U.S. Solicitor General Malcolm Stewart, arguing in
support of the publishers, suggested the court adopt a middle
ground in which copyright holders would have control over the
import of foreign goods using copyrighted material, though not
over future sales of those goods.  Kirtsaeng, who studied mathematics at the  University of
Southern California , generated about $900,000 in revenue by
selling textbooks published by Wiley and other companies. His
family members bought the books from stores in Thailand and
shipped them to the U.S., where Kirtsaeng sold them on eBay.  The Wiley books were virtually identical to the U.S.
editions, though each was marked to say it wasn’t to be exported
to another part of the world.  $600,000 Award  A Manhattan federal jury found Kirtsaeng liable for
copyright infringement and awarded the company $600,000. A judge
later ordered Kirtsaeng to turn over personal property,
including his computer and golf clubs -- something Wiley says
occurred only because he had transferred at least $170,000 out
of the country.  Kirtsaeng and his supporters in the Supreme Court case say
the 2nd Circuit’s reasoning would undermine the longstanding
notion that the purchaser of a legitimate product has full
ownership rights, including the right to pass the item on to
someone else.  Taken to its logical extreme, elimination of the first-sale
doctrine for foreign-made goods would prevent libraries from
lending books, bar consumers from reselling items and even stop
museums from displaying artwork in violation of the copyright
owner’s rights, those critics say.  Moving Overseas  Kirtsaeng also contends that a ruling favoring Wiley would
give manufacturers an incentive to move production facilities
overseas.  Wiley and its allies say lower courts have uniformly ruled
in favor of copyright owners on the issue, without any of the
repercussions forecast by Kirtsaeng and his supporters.  Wiley contends that Congress intended that publishers,
moviemakers and other copyright owners would be able to control
where their products would be sold and at what price.  As in the  Costco (COST)  case, the Obama administration is backing
the copyright owners, contending that other provisions in the
law provide protection against abuses. The government points to
a provision it says guarantees that libraries could lend books
they import legally.  In its clash with Omega, Costco may have cleared a separate
path for retailers to avoid copyright liability. That fight
centers on Seamaster watches that bore a copyrighted logo on the
back and were originally sold abroad. Costco acquired the
watches from a distributor and sold them for $1,200, almost $700
below Omega’s suggested retail price.  The Supreme Court’s split in the case meant that Costco
couldn’t invoke the first-sale doctrine. Costco later won
dismissal of the suit anyway when a federal trial judge ruled
that Omega had misused its copyright. Omega is appealing.  Bloomberg Press is an imprint of Wiley.  The case is Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons, 11-697.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  