-- U.S. Asks Judge to Dismiss Sany Affiliate Wind-Farm U.S.
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-29T23:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/u-s-asks-judge-to-dismiss-sany-affiliate-wind-farm-u-s-.html
An affiliate of  Sany Group Co. ,
 China ’s biggest machinery maker, shouldn’t be able to challenge
President  Barack Obama ’s decision blocking a planned Oregon
wind-farm project on national-security grounds, the U.S. said.  The  Justice Department , in a filing today in federal court
in  Washington , asked a judge to throw out a lawsuit by Ralls
Corp., arguing the Defense Production Act bars judicial review
of presidential orders suspending or prohibiting an acquisition
of a U.S. business by a foreign person.  “Neither the president’s findings nor his actions in the
presidential order fall outside his extremely broad discretion,
and Ralls’s constitutional claims are nothing more than
disguised challenges to his exercise of that discretion,” Joel
McElvain, a Justice Department lawyer, wrote in the filing.  Obama’s Sept. 28 order blocking Ralls from acquiring the
wind-farm assets was the first time in 22 years a president has
blocked a transaction on national security grounds. Obama was
added as a defendant to a lawsuit filed Sept. 12 that challenged
an earlier ruling by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the
U.S., known as CFIUS, blocking the project.  Ralls, based in  Delaware , is “actually controlled” by
Sany, even though the listed legal owners are two of the group’s
executives, Zhou Qing, Sany’s in-house lawyer, said in an Oct. 3
telephone interview. He declined to say why wind-farm company
had been set up that way.  Tim Xia, a lawyer with Morris, Manning & Martin LLP, who
represents Ralls, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on the filing.  Navy Airspace  Ralls was seeking to place Sany-made  wind turbines  at the
Oregon installations after purchasing land and other rights
earlier this year. The assets consist of four locations, all of
which are near or within restricted Navy airspace, the Treasury
Department, which heads CFIUS, said Sept. 28.  Ralls said Obama’s decision could cost the company $20
million in lost design and construction costs. It will also miss
out on $25 million in federal investment tax incentives if the
wind farms aren’t in service by Dec. 31, according to a court
filing.  The case is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign Investment
in the U.S., 1:12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 