-- U.S. Treasury Lowers Borrowing Estimate by $29 Billion
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-10-29T19:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/u-s-treasury-lowers-borrowing-estimate-by-29-billion.html
The U.S.  Treasury Department  lowered
its net borrowing estimate for the current quarter, reflecting
lower spending and higher revenue.  The Treasury decreased its  borrowing estimate  for October
through December to $288 billion, or $29 billion less than
projected in July, it said in a statement today in Washington.
Officials see net borrowing of $342 billion in the quarter
starting Jan. 1. In the period that ended Sept. 30, the Treasury
borrowed $264 billion. The estimates set the stage for the
department’s quarterly  refunding announcement  on Oct. 31.  “Tax receipts have been pretty solid throughout most of
the year, and we haven’t really seen a significant slowdown
recently,” Thomas Simons, a government debt economist at
Jefferies Group Inc. in New York, said before the estimates were
released. “There’s no reason to expect that they would not be
decent in the fourth quarter as well.”  Economic growth in the U.S. was stronger than forecast in
the third quarter, as gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent
annual rate after climbing 1.3 percent in the prior period. An
accelerating economy will boost tax revenue, helping the federal
government control its budget deficit, which reached $1.09
trillion in fiscal 2012.  “The decrease in borrowing relates to lower outlays,
higher receipts, and changes in the cash-balance assumptions,”
the Treasury said in the statement.  Debt Limit  The department has said it expects to reach its  debt limit 
of $16.4 trillion near the end of this year unless Congress
acts. The department said Aug. 1 it can implement extraordinary
measures for government funding to give Congress “more time”
to lift the ceiling. The measures can include suspending the
sale of bonds to finance state and local infrastructure
projects.  The Treasury said today its forecasts assume a cash balance
of $60 billion for end of the current quarter and $30 billion at
the end of the January-to-March period.  Lawmakers in the Republican and Democratic parties are
seeking to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, the more than $600
billion of federal spending cuts and tax increases that will
automatically take effect at the start of next year unless
Congress acts.  The spending cuts were put in place as an incentive to
ensure an agreement after U.S. leaders couldn’t reach a deal
last year to increase the debt ceiling and ensure long-term
deficit reduction. Tax cuts enacted under President George W. Bush and a temporary payroll-tax reduction also expire at the
end of 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  