-- Bond Market Close Recommended Tomorrow by Sifma on Sandy
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-10-29T17:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/u-s-bond-market-close-recommended-tomorrow-by-sifma-on-sandy.html
The Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association recommend a full market close
tomorrow in dollar-denominated fixed-income securities in the
U.S. because of  Hurricane Sandy .  The suggestion follows today’s noon New York time halt of
trading of  government securities , mortgage- and asset-backed
debt, over-the-counter investment grade and high-yield corporate
bonds, municipal bonds and secondary money market trading in
bankers’ acceptances, commercial paper and Yankee and Euro
certificates of deposit. Sifma also recommended full closures of
U.S. government securities trading in  Tokyo  and  London , the New
York-based  trade group  said in a  statement .  “There is a lot of risk with a weather event of this
magnitude,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York
of government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-
income broker and dealer for institutional investors. “When we
get back after the close, the market will have to assess the
aftermath of the hurricane.”  Hurricane Sandy, the Atlantic’s largest-ever tropical storm,
will strike the East Coast today or early tomorrow with a life-
threatening surge, emptying the streets of the nation’s largest
cities and lashing a region of 60 million with gales, rain and
even snow. The storm, 900 miles across, shut the federal
government and state administrations from  Virginia  to
 Massachusetts . It halted travel, prevented U.S. stock markets
from opening and stopped the presidential campaign. It may cause
as much as $20 billion in economic damages, according to Eqecat
Inc., a risk-management company in Oakland,  California .  Light Trading  Treasury volume reported by ICAP Plc, the largest inter-
dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , fell to $81.79 billion,
the lowest volume since December 2011, from $243.96 billion on
Oct. 26 in New York. The volume was nearly of third of the
yearly average of $242.5 billion a day in 2012.  The Treasury Department sold $25 billion in four-week bills
at a high discount rate of 0.13 percent. The bid-to-cover ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing the amount bid with the amount
offered, was 5.23, the highest since January. The auction had
originally been scheduled for tomorrow.  The Treasury also sold $32 billion of  three-month  bills at
a rate of 0.125 percent and $28 billion of  six-month  securities
at 0.160 percent. The U.S. isn’t scheduled to sell any more debt
this week.  Fed Operations  The  Federal Reserve  sold $7.8 billion of Treasuries due
from November 2015 through December 2015 today. The  sales  are
part of the Fed’s program to replace short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to keep
borrowing costs low. The Fed canceled tomorrow’s open-market
operations.  The Fed said in a separate  statement  that the debt sold
today will settle Oct. 31 as opposed to the standard one-day
settlement.  The central bank’s securities lending program ended at
11:45 a.m., 15 minutes early. Securities lending operations will
not take place tomorrow.  In its daily securities lending program, the Fed offers
 Treasury securities  held by its System Open Market Account, or
SOMA, for loan to dealers against Treasury general collateral on
an overnight basis. Dealers bid in a multiple-price auction held
every day at noon  New York  time.  Futures Close  The Chicago-based CME Group, the world’s largest futures
exchange, ended trading of contracts, including Treasury,
Eurodollar and fed funds futures and options on both the trading
floor as well as on Globex, its electronic platform, in
accordance with the Treasury market, according to a  statement .  The U.S. securities industry canceled equity trading on all
markets today. The shutdown, announced by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, may extend through tomorrow and followed an
earlier decision by the New York Stock Exchange to close floor
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  