-- UBS, RBS Traders Suspended as Rates Probe Goes Past Libor
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-10-29T01:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/ubs-rbs-traders-suspended-as-rates-probe-goes-beyond-libor-1-.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  suspended more than three traders in  Singapore  as
regulators investigating Libor-rigging turn their attention to
the rates used to set prices on foreign exchange derivatives.  At least two foreign-exchange traders at UBS,  Switzerland ’s
largest bank, have been put on leave as part of an internal
probe into the manipulation of non-deliverable forwards, a
derivative traders use to speculate on the movement of
currencies that are subject to domestic foreign exchange
restrictions, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
operation. Edinburgh-based RBS also put Ken Choy, a director in
its  emerging markets  foreign exchange trading unit, on leave, a
person briefed on the matter said on Oct. 26.  Regulators around the world are broadening the scope of
their investigations beyond interbank offered rates such as the
London interbank offered rate to encompass more benchmarks. The
 Monetary Authority of Singapore  last month announced it was
extending its probe into rate-rigging to include NDFs. About
$1.02 trillion of the contracts are traded in a year, according
to 2003 figures, the most recent available, compiled by the
 Emerging Markets (EEM)  Traders Association.  Spokesmen for UBS and RBS declined to comment. Choy didn’t
answer a call to his work phone in Singapore today.  Unlike foreign exchange forward contracts, where two
parties agree to physically exchange currencies at a set rate at
a specific date in the future, NDF traders settle the net
position in U.S. dollars. Who pays and how much at the end of
the contract is determined by reference to a fixing rate which
in some jurisdictions is set, like Libor, by a survey of banks.  Ringgit, Rupiah  Contracts that reference the Malaysian ringgit and the
Indonesian rupiah against the dollar are among NDFs that are
traded in Singapore. The spot rates for both currencies are
fixed by the Association of Banks in Singapore based on data
submitted by banks. If traders can move the spot rates, they
could boost their profit, said a person familiar with the
process who asked not to be identified.  The Russian ruble spot rate is set by  CME Group (CME)  Inc., which
operates the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Each day, the company
surveys at least 15 lenders at a randomly selected time between
noon and 12.30 p.m. in Moscow and asks them for both a bid and
offer price on a hypothetical $100,000 ruble-to-dollar
transaction.  Changed Methodology  In other jurisdictions, the rate is set by central bankers.
The  Reserve Bank of India  sets the spot rates for dollar-rupee
and euro-rupee by polling “a select list of contributing
banks” at a “randomly chosen five minute window” between
11.45 a.m. and 12.15 p.m. each day, according to its website.
Before it changed the methodology in June 2011, all banks were
called at noon each day.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest lender by assets,
was fined a record 290 million pounds ($467 million) in June
when it became the first bank to settle with regulators over the
rigging of  interest rates . Derivatives traders at the bank
systematically sought to influence where Libor was set each day
to suit their trading positions and boost profits, according to
the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  