-- Hughes May Be Fired If QPR Doesn’t Win Next Game: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-29T05:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/hughes-may-be-fired-if-qpr-doesn-t-win-next-game-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Job in Jeopardy  Queens Park Rangers manager  Mark Hughes  may be fired if his
winless team doesn’t beat Reading in their Nov. 4 Premier League
match, the  Daily Mail reported .  A number of senior officials are said to have lost patience
with Hughes and the final decision will be left to co-owners
 Tony Fernandes  and Amit Bhatia, the newspaper added.  Magpies Midfielder  Newcastle United  agreed to sign France midfielder Moussa
Sissoko ahead of Premier league rivals Tottenham, Liverpool,
Everton and Fulham, the  Sun reported .  The 23-year-old is free to sign a pre-contract agreement
from Jan. 1 because his Toulouse deal expires at the end of the
season and he’s already committed to the Magpies, the Sun added.  Mancini Blow  Manchester City ’s hiring of Txiki Begiristain as Director
of Football effectively reduced manager  Roberto Mancini ’s role
to that of first-team coach, the  Independent reported .  Mancini will now find himself below City’s chief executive
officer Ferran Soriano and Begiristain in City’s new “pyramid
of excellence,” and leaves the Italian able only to recommend
which players City might buy, the newspaper said.  Knee Surgery?  Manchester City defender Micah Richards may be out until
Christmas amid fears he needs surgery after injuring his knee
during the 1-0 win against Swansea two days ago, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  Initial tests suggested that Richards might have damaged a
cartilage, although a full assessment will not be made until the
swelling has subsided enough for him to have a scan, the
newspaper added.  Sampirisi Scouted  Chelsea,  Manchester United  and Liverpool had scouts watch
Genoa full-back Mario Sampirisi play against AC Milan two days
ago, the  Daily Mail reported .  Sampirisi, 19, began his career in Milan’s academy as a
wing-back before reverting to a deeper position, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  