-- Ukraine Eurobond, Stocks Climb as Yanukovych Tops Vote
-- B y   A l e x   N i c h o l s o n   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-10-29T16:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/ukraine-s-2017-dollar-bond-climbs-yield-drops-most-in-9-days.html
Ukraine’s dollar Eurobond climbed,
cutting the yield by the most in nine days, and stocks advanced
after President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s ruling party won more votes
than its rivals in parliamentary elections.  The government 2017 Eurobond rose for a fourth day, cutting
the yield 17 basis points to 7.11 percent by 7 p.m. in Kiev.
That’s the biggest decline since Oct. 16 and the lowest level
since the notes were sold in July. The country’s benchmark
equity market gauge, the  UX Index (UX) , added 6.2 percent to 875.15,
increasing for a second day as all 10 stocks climbed. The
hryvnia declined 0.6 percent to 8.1818 per dollar.  The new regime faces the task of unlocking a $15.4 billion
loan from the  International Monetary Fund  that was frozen after
the government refused to raise household gas prices. The
economy may have slipped into recession last quarter and policy
makers could be forced to counter the contraction by devaluing
the hryvnia to boost exporters’ competitiveness, according to
HSBC Holdings Plc and Barclays Plc.  “Once the new cabinet is formed we expect to see a push
toward a greater liberalization of utility tariffs for the
population and more flexibility in the country’s currency
exchange policy,” Vladimir Tikhomirov, Otkritie Capital’s chief
economist in Moscow, said in an e-mailed report today. “Both
are crucial steps that have been long seen as a precondition for
the release of new loans by the IMF and other creditors of
Ukraine.”  The Party of Regions got 34.86 percent, compared with 22.07
percent for opposition groups united under jailed ex-Premier
Yulia Tymoshenko, with 52 percent of ballots counted in party-
list voting as of 1 p.m., the Kiev-based Central Electoral
Commission said on its website today.  Forwards, Swaps  The hryvnia lost 1.8 percent against the dollar this year
and may slide further, derivatives trading shows. The hryvnia
will retreat to 9.5 per dollar in six months and 10.35 in a
year’s time, non-deliverable forwards predict.  The cost of insuring Ukraine’s government debt for five
years using  credit default swaps  dropped three basis points
today to 638. The swaps cost 849 basis points at the end of last
year, reflecting an improved perception of risk, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Ukrainian Equities Index is down 41 percent this year,
the second-worst performance in the world behind Cyprus’s
General Market Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Stocks
slid as the economy slumped after growing 5.2 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nicholson in Moscow at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  