-- Hungary Set for Third Rate Cut as Growth Trumps Inflation
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-10-30T08:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/hungary-set-for-third-rate-cut-as-growth-trumps-inflation.html
Hungary  will probably cut its  main
interest rate  for a third month as concern about economic growth
outweighs the European Union’s fastest inflation and fading
chances of obtaining an international aid deal.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  will reduce the  two-week deposit
rate  by quarter-point to 6.25 percent, still the EU’s highest,
according to 16 of 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Two
forecast no change. A decision will be announced at 2 p.m. in
Budapest followed by a news conference an hour later.  The central bank cut its benchmark by a quarter-point on
Sept. 25 as policy makers focused on a deepening recession
rather than on price growth. The decision split the Monetary
Council as the four non-executive members outvoted central bank
President Andras Simor and his two deputies for a second month.  “It seems the easing cycle will continue until the market
tells the MPC to stop,” Dan Bucsa, a London-based economist at
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , said in an e-mail yesterday. “The current
monetary-policy easing cycle looks unsustainable without an IMF
agreement.”  The forint, the world’s best-performing currency this year
as investors bet on an IMF deal, weakened 1.9 percent against
the euro since Origo news website reported on Oct. 26 that the
IMF doesn’t plan to restart talks. The IMF the same day
confirmed Hungary has no date to continue talks, which Premier
 Viktor Orban  requested in November.  ‘Depressed Economy’  The yield on the 10-year government bond in the past two
trading sessions rose 47 basis points to reach 7.16 percent by
8:41 a.m. in Budapest, the highest since Oct. 10. The cost of
insuring Hungary’s bonds from default traded at 270 basis
points, a one-week high.  “The majority of the MPC is still likely to vote for
another cut to try and boost the depressed economy,”  Gaelle Blanchard , a London-based emerging-market strategist at Societe
Generale SA, said in an e-mailed research note today. “The
recent pressure on the forint and local rates is unlikely to be
enough to prevent a cut.”  Stimulus Benefits  Hungary has benefited from the stimulus of central banks
such as the U.S. Federal Reserve and the  European Central Bank ,
easing debt financing pressure as investors hunt for higher-
yielding assets. The government is sticking to its conditions
for accepting any aid and “life goes on” if no deal is signed,
negotiator Mihaly Varga said yesterday.  The central bank is cutting rates even as the  inflation
rate  rose to 6.6 percent in September, the highest since July
2008, from 6 percent in August. Policy makers target 3 percent
inflation. MNB staff last month forecast that with a main
 interest rate  of 6.75 percent, the inflation goal would only be
reached in the second half of 2014.  The four non-executive members of the rate body considered
that rates may be cut further if financial-market conditions are
“favorable” for a “sustained” period and if medium-term
inflation risks remain “moderate,” according to the minutes of
last month’s meeting published Oct. 10.  Policy makers were divided on the inflation outlook and
potential impact of a rate cut on output, according to the
minutes.  Forecasts Cut  The government this month cut its forecast for  gross
domestic product  to a contraction of 1.2 percent this year from
0.1 percent growth. The Cabinet expects an expansion of 0.9
percent in 2013, compared with a previous estimate of 1.6
percent, according to the updated outlook.  The effect of rate cuts on growth is limited as the
monetary transmission channel is “impaired,” Pasquale Diana
and Jaroslaw Strzalkowski, London-based economists at Morgan
Stanley, said in an Oct. 26 research note, who nonetheless
forecast a rate cut to 5 percent by “next summer.”  “We think that as long as the risk backdrop is reasonably
supportive, the same narrow majority will continue to argue for
monetary easing to support growth,” Diana and Strzalkowski
said. “After all, as we often stress, the fact that monetary
policy is not working effectively at present can also be used as
a reason to do more, not less.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  