-- United Spirits Tumbles on Diageo Deal Concerns: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-10-29T10:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/united-spirits-tumbles-on-diageo-deal-concerns-mumbai-mover.html
United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , the Indian
whiskey maker controlled by Vijay Mallya, fell the most in eight
months in Mumbai trading on speculation that discussions to sell
a stake to  Diageo Plc. (DGE)  could fall through.  United Spirits shares fell 9 percent to close at 1095
rupees, the biggest decline since Feb. 22. The stock was the
biggest loser on the 10-member BSE Fast-Moving Consumer Goods
Index.  “I do not have to do a deal with Diageo at all. I am under
no compulsion whatsoever,” Reuters quoted Mallya, the alcohol
company’s chairman, as saying in a report over the weekend.  Diageo in September said it is in talks to buy a stake in
United Spirits, a deal that would help the world’s biggest
distiller build its presence in the Indian whiskey market.
United Spirits shares have more than doubled this year on
expectations of a deal with the U.K.-based company.  “It’s more of the rumors about the deal with Diageo not
going through,” said Ganesh Ram, an analyst at Kim Eng
Securities. “The deal is important from the United Spirits
perspective because it would give them the edge of reducing debt
as well as the edge of new premium brands.”  Mallya has held discussions with Diageo on United Spirits
amid troubles at his cash-strapped  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) ,
which had its license suspended following a strike. The airline
has said it plans to resume flights in the next few weeks after
employees agreed to return to work. Kingfisher Airlines shares
rose 3.5 percent to close at 11.75 rupees.  United Spirits’ spokesman Prakash Mirpuri could not be
reached on his mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  