-- Turkish Police Fail to Stop Secularists’ Mausoleum March
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-10-29T13:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/turkish-police-fail-to-stop-secularists-mausoleum-march.html
Police using tear gas, smoke bombs
and water cannons failed to stop thousands of secularists who
forged ahead to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk’s mausoleum in a march
that highlighted the divide over secularism on the 89th
anniversary of the founding of modern  Turkey .  Police removed roadblocks as tens of thousands of flag-
waving secularists marched to the mausoleum of Turkey’s founder
following clashes outside the parliament building in Ankara
where Ataturk declared the republic, CNN-Turk television said.  “Some policemen kicked youths who only wanted to unfurl
Turkish flags,”  Kemal Kilicdaroglu , head of the main opposition
 Republican People’s Party , or CHP, told CNN-Turk. “It is very
sad. How can a government that is against the republic call
itself the government of the republic?”  Marchers were reacting to the Islamic-rooted government of
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , which they accuse of
raising the profile of Islam in predominantly Muslim and
officially secular Turkey. The government has recently allowed
Koran courses in schools while lifting the ban on graduates of
imam and preacher schools to become military cadets.  The crowd included supporters of the CHP as well as smaller
opposition parties and more than 40 non-governmental
organizations that shunned official celebrations at a nearby
stadium, CNN-Turk said. Erdogan invited people to join
celebrations at a stadium in Ankara while Cabinet members
accused the opposition party of attempting to divide the public.  Pepper Spray  Ayse Gulsun Bilgehan, a CHP lawmaker, told CNN-Turk she was
burned with pepper spray during the clashes.  CHP supporters also confronted police during official
celebrations in the Mediterranean cities of Mersin and Antalya,
Hurriyet newspaper reported today. In Antalya, some CHP members
accused military commanders, self-proclaimed guarantors of the
secular government, of not doing enough to protect the republic,
Hurriyet said.  The country’s leaders, who hailed the recent convictions of
dozens of generals and officers on charges of plotting to
overthrow the government in 2003, reject the allegations of
undermining secularism.  “Neither Ataturk nor the republic is anyone’s monopoly,”
Idris Bal, a lawmaker from Erdogan’s  Justice and Development
Party , told CNN-Turk. “Everyone should refrain from acts that
could lead to polarization” among Turks.  The secular opposition party said it will also boycott a
reception later today by President  Abdullah Gul , who for the
first time invited government members with their wives, many of
whom wear Islamic head scarves, to mark the anniversary.
Erdogan’s Islamic-rooted government is trying to ease a ban on
Islamic head scarves in public offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  