-- Turkish Banks Go for Gold to Lure $302 Billion Hoard
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-10-29T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/turkish-banks-go-for-gold-to-lure-302-billion-hoard.html
Deniz Kalkan, a 32-year-old
housewife in Istanbul, is ready to move her gold.  “I’ll put these in a deposit account as soon as I get the
time,” Kalkan said of the half-dozen gold coins she has
collected and stashed in her apartment. “It’s much safer to
keep them in the bank than at home.”  When Kalkan brings in her coins, she’ll be joining a wave
of Turks responding to a drive to lure an estimated $302 billion
of hidden gold into the economy to help ease the nation’s
 current-account deficit , the world’s biggest after the U.S.
Gold-based deposit accounts surged 15 percent this year through
the end of July, three times the increase in standard savings
accounts, according to the  central bank .  The gold accounts give customers an amount in Turkish lira
equivalent to the weight of the precious metal they turn over to
the bank. They can then withdraw cash or take out loans, while
the lender is able to sell or hold onto the gold.  At  Yapi Kredi Bankasi AS (YKBNK) , owned by  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Koc
Holding AS (KCHOL) , deposits in gold-based mutual funds, which invest at
least 51 percent of their money in precious metals and offer a
guaranteed return on capital, increased 62 percent in 2012.
 Turkiye Is Bankasi AS (ISCTR) ,  Turkey ’s largest bank by assets, said
gold deposits increased 10-fold in the two years through June.  The campaign by Turkey’s banks, featuring ads for “golden
age” accounts and products such as gold gift checks, is
targeted at Turks who traditionally give gold coins or jewelry
as presents at weddings, births and circumcision ceremonies. The
custom gained popularity a decade ago as Turkey’s inflation rate
topped 70 percent, making gold an attractive store of wealth.  Irish GDP  By bringing some of what the World Gold Council estimates
are 5,000 metric tons (5,512 tons) of treasure into the banking
system -- an amount greater in value than Ireland’s gross
domestic product -- Turkey hopes to reduce gold imports and
external borrowing, according to Erdal Aral, deputy chief
executive officer of Isbank.  “We have to get the gold that’s out there into the
financial system,” Aral said in an interview in Istanbul this
month. “This is going to be an important step toward solving
our current-account problem.”  Turkey’s current-account deficit, the amount its imports
exceeded exports, peaked at $77 billion in 2011. The gap
narrowed by 23 percent this year to $59 billion at the end of
August on a 12-month rolling basis as record gold sales by
Turkish companies to the United Arab Emirates and  Iran  pushed up
exports, according to the government’s statistics office.  Exporting Gold  Imports shrank at an annual rate of 4.8 percent in August,
while exports rose 14.5 percent, driven primarily by gold. Sales
of precious metals to the UAE and Iran, which is grappling with
trade sanctions, jumped to $9.2 billion this year through August
from $645 million a year earlier, statistics office data show.  “Gold exports to Iran and UAE are helping Turkey to
improve its current-account gap quicker than expected,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at Istanbul-based brokerage BGC Partners,
said in an e-mail.  Turkey doesn’t produce enough gold to account for its
exports. Production this year through August was about 25 metric
tons, according to data from the Gold Miners Association. Gold
imports were 109 tons as of the end of September, the Istanbul
Gold Exchange said on its website.  “The gold has to come from somewhere so that it can be
exported,” Altug said. “It’s obvious the gold under the
mattress is fast entering the system.”  Household Savings  The effort to lure gold into banks also will increase
household savings, the lowest among  emerging markets . Turkey’s
savings rate is 12.7 percent compared with  China ’s 53 percent,
according to a  World Bank report . Raising the savings rate will
reduce the amount banks have to borrow to fund their lending and
enable them to make more loans.  “We support the government’s drive to increase savings,”
Galip Tozge, executive vice president for consumer banking at
Istanbul-based  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , part-owned by  Citigroup Inc. (C) , said in
an interview. “Gold accounts will play an important role in
this, as unregistered assets will come into the system.”  The rise in gold prices in recent years added to the
metal’s popularity. Spot gold, which traded at $1,711.38 an
ounce on Oct. 29, has climbed 9 percent this year, heading for a
12th consecutive annual gain, as investors bought bullion to
protect against inflation.  Turkish women began holding “golden days,” when a gift,
in the form of coins or jewelry, was brought to the hostess of a
party. That’s how Kalkan accumulated her small hoard, she said.  ‘It’s Profitable’  “I buy gold every month, usually in the form of jewelry,”
said Ozlem Basar, a 26-year-old Istanbul shipping-company
executive. “It’s profitable, as prices are rising fast and
inflation’s increasing.”  Turkey’s  inflation  accelerated to 9.2 percent in September,
climbing to a five-month high, almost double the central bank’s
year-end target of 5 percent. GDP growth fell to 2.9 percent in
the second quarter from 9.1 percent a year earlier.  Banks are competing to attract gold with a variety of
products. Isbank and  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the country’s
biggest lender by market value, offer gold-backed loans, where
customers can bring jewelry or coins to the bank and take out
loans against their value. Garanti also has a credit card linked
to gold deposit accounts. The bank said it soon will enable
customers to withdraw their savings in gold, instead of Turkish
lira or foreign exchange.  ‘Golden Days’  Islamic  Asya Katilim Bankasi AS (ASYAB)  has hosted its own “golden
days,” when customers bring in coins and jewelry to be
evaluated by experts. The Istanbul-based lender said it
collected three metric tons of bullion through such promotions
since March 2012 and that gold accounts have climbed 22 percent
this year through July.  HSBC Holding Plc’s (HSBA)  Turkish unit is promoting a gold-based
mutual fund on its website with the slogan, “Let the fund you
touch turn to gold.”  While Indian banks offer some instruments linked to gold to
discourage hoarding, the choices are not as varied as those in
Turkey, according to Isbank’s Aral.  “Turkey seems to be trying the hardest to get the stashed
gold into the system,” he said.  Government measures, including an Aug. 16 central bank
decision to raise the proportion of reserves lenders can keep in
gold to 30 percent from 25 percent, have encouraged efforts to
attract more bullion, Aral said. Central bank Governor Erdem Basci has said he may make adjusting the ratio his main monetary
policy tool.  Grand Bazaar  Banks will have to diversify their services further for
customers to find keeping gold in the bank attractive, Gokhan
Ceviker, senior vice president for retail management at Bank
Asya, said in an interview.  To speed up diversification, Turkey’s regulators have been
discussing planned legislation to enable customers to buy or
sell gold at bank branches or transfer gold into other accounts,
according to an Aug. 29 report in  Milliyet , a daily newspaper.
Bank Asya has said it will soon start purchasing and selling
bullion at its branches.  Turkey’s jewelers, many of them located in Istanbul’s Grand
Bazaar, one of the world’s largest covered markets, have opposed
the move. They say banks buying and selling gold would cut their
revenue and push them into underground trading.  “I always viewed gold deposit accounts positively because
the funds will return to our industry as loans,” Kamil Karakas,
chairman of gold producer  Karakas Atlantis Kiymetli Madenler AS (KRATL) ,
said in an interview. “But banks buying and selling gold is a
serious blow for jewelers.”  Changing Habits  The plan will fail as banks won’t be able to replicate the
trust between the jeweler and the customer, said Faruk Bektas, a
spokesman for the Grand Bazaar Tradespeople Association, which
represents jewelers.  The six-century-old Grand Bazaar is host to almost 4,000
jewelers, and about 1.5 metric tons of scrap gold is processed
into bullion there every day, according to  Istanbul Gold
Exchange  data. Transaction volume totaled 8.5 billion liras
($4.7 billion) last year.  “It will take a while for tradition to break, but habits
will eventually change,” Bank Asya’s Ceviker said. “More and
more people will see banks as the place to take their gold.
These new resources will help us fund more loans, which will
help the Turkish economy to grow.”  Editors: Robert Friedman, Dale Crofts  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  