-- Hurricane Sandy Threatens November Retail Sales
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-10-29T20:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/hurricane-sandy-threatens-november-retail-sale.html
Hurricane Sandy is threatening to
reduce sales of clothing and holiday gifts during one of the
most important shopping months of the year, while benefiting
supermarkets and home-improvement stores such as  Home Depot Inc. (HD)   Sandy may cut November same-store sales by as much as 3
percent, according to Oliver Chen, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.
in New York. Traffic may fall 40 percent in affected areas in
November’s first week, which accounts for about 22 percent of
the month’s sales, Chen said in a note.  Retailers shut locations along the East Coast today as
Sandy barreled into the region. The storm may help discount and
home-improvement stores as consumers stock up on supplies, while
reducing purchases at specialty-apparel chains, he said.
 American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) ,  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD)  and  Urban
Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  are among the companies with the highest
percentages of their stores affected by the storm, Chen said.  “We expect Hurricane Sandy’s impact on the East Coast to
be mixed,”  Deborah Weinswig , a Citigroup analyst, said in an e-
mail. “The storm will disrupt last-minute Halloween sales and
mall traffic but drive stock-up trips to the discounters.”  Retail is just one industry hit by the storm as
restaurants, schools, office buildings and equity markets shut
for the day and travel is restricted. Economic damages from the
hurricane may total as much as $20 billion, including as much as
$10 billion in insured losses, according to estimates from
Eqecat Inc., a provider of catastrophe risk models.  Economic Effect  Sandy could shave 0.1 percentage point to 0.2 percentage
point from the annualized rate of U.S. economic growth in the
fourth quarter, said  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at Wells
Fargo & Co. in Charlotte, North Carolina. The economy expanded
at a 2 percent pace in the third quarter.  While some retailers may see a boost in sales after the
hurricane, “there’s a loss of activity that’s going to be hard
to make up,” he said. “If you’re a restaurant and you’re
closed today, people are not going to eat two lunches
tomorrow.”  Home Depot has a command center of 300 to 350 employees in
four rooms at its home office in Atlanta working to prepare
stores and associates for the hurricane, Doug Spiron, the
company’s storm captain and merchandising manager for its
southern division, said yesterday.  “This one has got so may facets to it -- you’ve got wind,
you’ve got rain, you’ve got snow, you’ve got the full moon,
you’ve got the storm surge and yesterday we had a tsunami
warning, for goodness sake,” Spiron said today by telephone.
“Then there’s the impact of the sheer size of the storm. This
one takes it to another whole level of preparation.”  Home Depot  Home Depot and  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , the largest U.S. home-
improvement retailers, have trucked hundreds of loads of
generators, flashlights, plywood and chainsaws to stores in
Hurricane Sandy’s path, according to Spiron and Terry Johnson,
Lowe’s senior vice president for its North region.  Home Depot has closed 18 stores in areas where local
governments have mandated closings, Spiron said. Lowe’s, based
in Mooresville,  North Carolina , said in an e-mailed statement it
plans 73 closings.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s biggest retailer, has
identified about 900 stores and clubs that are in the projected
path of the storm, Dianna Gee, a spokeswoman for the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company, said today in a phone
interview. The company has closed 88 stores, according to its
website.  Possible Shortages  Some locations may have temporary shortages of water and
other key items, Gee said. Immediately replenishing supplies may
become impossible if trucks are forced to stay put due to high
winds or road closings, she said.  In stores along evacuation routes, Wal-Wart has filled
shelves with can-openers, ready-to-eat packaged foods and air
mattresses for people forced from their homes, Gee said.  The company’s staff meteorologists are keeping tabs on
potential long-term impact to stores along the East Coast. Wal-
Mart has back-up generators ready in areas that may need
emergency power.  “As the storm intensifies, we anticipate more store
closings,” Gee said. “We hope that they are temporary.”  Hurricane Sandy is predicted to make landfall late today in
southern New Jersey, then turn inland, according to an advisory
from the National Hurricane Center in Miami. Winds may cause a
tidal surge as high as a record 11 feet (3 meters), according to
New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg .  Sustained Winds  Sandy packed maximum sustained winds of 85 miles (140
kilometers) per hour, up from 75 mph earlier, the center said at
5 a.m. New York time. The storm’s eye was about 285 miles east
of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, and about 385 miles south-
southeast of New York, moving north at 15 mph. It is not
expected to weaken before landfall, the center said.  Target Corp. (TGT)  closed 14 stores in New York, New Jersey and
Delaware, Jessica Deede, a Target spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. An additional 16 stores in Virginia will close this
afternoon, Deede said.  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  has closed 11 of its Acme stores in New
Jersey and one in Maryland,  Mike Siemienas , a company spokesman,
said in an interview. The company also has closed some Save-A-
Lot stores in New Jersey, he said.  “Our goal is to open our stores as quickly as possible,”
he said. “We know that customers will need products.”  Grocery Closings  Other Supervalu chains that may be affected include Farm
Fresh, Shoppers and Shaw’s, he said.  Kroger Co. (KR) , the largest U.S. grocery-store chain, has been
stocking its mid-Atlantic locations with extra bread, milk, and
bottled water, Keith Dailey, a spokesman for the Cincinnati-
based company, said in an interview. The stores also are
increasing inventories of batteries, flashlights and ice, he
said.  “We’ve been preparing for well over a week,” he said.
Some locations in Virginia Beach, Virginia, are selling plywood,
sandbags and consumer generators, he said.  Kroger stores and warehouses in the Midwest are getting
ready for high winds and possible power outages with generators
and refrigerated trucks, he said. There were no Kroger stores
closed as of this morning, Dailey said.  Cabin Fever  Deborah Chusid, a 50-year-old art director who lives in the
Upper West Side of Manhattan, was out at the Petco pet-supply
store this morning to pick up some dog food and delay the onset
of cabin fever.  “I know it’s going to get worse,” she said.  Chusid took care of her emergency grocery shopping
yesterday and will be temporarily housing her son, a freshman at
the City University of New York’s Macaulay Honors College who
was evacuated from his dorm near the East River.  About 130 Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s stores will be closed
today, as well as the Macy’s unit’s New York offices, said  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman. Cincinnati-based  Macy’s Inc. (M)  has more
than 800 stores in the U.S.  Saks Inc. (SKS) , the New York-based luxury chain, closed 10
stores from the Washington area to Boston, including the
Manhattan flagship, which it boarded up at 4 p.m. yesterday,
said Julia Bentley, a spokeswoman.  Macy’s has about 30 percent of its stores exposed to the
hurricane, and Saks has about 27 percent, according to Bloomberg
Industries. The two retailers reported a 150 basis-point loss to
August sales last year because of Hurricane Irene, according to
Bloomberg Industries.  Best Buy Co. closed about 179 stores along the East Coast,
Amy von Walter, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Limited Brands  Limited Brands, which owns the Victoria’s Secret and Bath &
Body Works chains, has about 160 stores closed today, Tammy Roberts Myers, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The Columbus,
Ohio-based company is watching the impact of the storm to
determine future plans, she wrote. Limited Brands had 2,883
stores as of Sept. 29.  American Eagle has 64 stores closed today and shut its
Manhattan locations at 5 p.m. yesterday for the safety of
employees, Iris Yen, a spokeswoman for the Pittsburgh-based
company said in an e-mail. American Eagle had 1,063 locations as
of July 28.  Starbucks will have almost 1,000 stores closed along the
East Coast from Virginia to Maine as of 4 p.m., Haley Drage, a
spokeswoman for Seattle-based  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , said in an
interview.  Dunkin’ Closings  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN) , owner of the Dunkin’ Donuts
coffee-shop brand, has closed about 100 stores in the Northeast,
Michelle King, a spokeswoman for the Canton, Massachusetts-based
company, said in an e-mail.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the world’s largest snack-food maker, told
the 1,300 employees at its headquarters in Purchase, New York,
to stay home today and took its delivery trucks off the road
ahead of Sandy’s arrival, Aurora Gonzalez, a spokeswoman, said
in an interview.  The company’s distribution centers and plants in the area
ran overtime on the weekend to meet increased demand as stores
stocked up on Pepsi, Frito-Lay and Quaker Oats products, she
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  