-- ViiV to Acquire Rights to HIV Drugs Created With Shionogi
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-10-29T09:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/viiv-to-acquire-rights-to-hiv-drugs-created-with-shionogi.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s ViiV Healthcare
Ltd. agreed to buy the rights to HIV treatments the unit has
developed with Shionogi & Co., giving the Japanese drugmaker a
10 percent stake in ViiV as the companies prepare to seek
approval of the most advanced medicine from the collaboration.  Shionogi will get royalties in the “high teens” from
sales of HIV drugs known as integrase inhibitors, including the
experimental dolutegravir, Glaxo said in a statement today.
ViiV, also owned by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , will book all sales and incur
the remaining research, development and commercialization costs.  Dolutegravir may challenge the world’s best-selling AIDS
medicine, made by  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  The drug, combined with
one of ViiV’s older treatments, reduced the HIV virus to
undetectable levels in more people than Gilead’s Atripla in a
clinical trial released last July. The medicine will be
submitted for approval by the end of the year, Glaxo said.  “We’re all excited about the data from the registration
studies completed in 2012,” ViiV Chairman David Redfern said in
a phone interview. “For ViiV, this gives us a lot of simplicity
to the execution” of bringing dolutegravir to market.  After the transaction, Glaxo will own 76.5 percent of ViiV
and Pfizer 13.5 percent. If dolutegravir is approved in the U.S.
and  Europe , Glaxo will be entitled to an extra 1.8 percent.  The new arrangement doesn’t change the possibility that
ViiV may offer shares to the public, said Redfern, also the
chief strategy officer of Glaxo.  “We retain optionality on what to do with ViiV,” he said.
“We will continue to look at it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  