-- Vonn Won’t Abandon Ambition to Race in Men’s Downhill
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   S o p h i e   C a r o n e l l o
-- 2012-10-29T10:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/vonn-won-t-abandon-ambition-to-race-in-men-s-downhill.html
The  International Ski Federation  is
planning to hold World Cup downhill races in central Rome and
 New York  City as an effort to boost the sport.  Munich and Moscow will be staging so-called city events
this season as part of the  alpine World Cup  calendar. The
International Ski Federation, known by its French acronym of
FIS, first held promotional events in metropolitan areas in
2009. The city events -- held on ramps with two competitors
going head-to-head in races that last around 20 seconds -- have
been carrying World Cup points since 2011.  “We have to bring our athletes to the public from time to
time,” FIS President Gian Franco Kasper said in an interview at
the start of skiing’s World Cup season last week in Soelden,
Austria. “Unlike with some summer sports, the public doesn’t
come to the mountains by the thousands, that’s too
complicated.”  Kasper said financing is in place to stage the first city
race in  Rome ’s Circus Maximus -- the venue for chariot races in
ancient Rome -- as early as 2014. Skiers will be taken to the
60-meter high ramp in chariots, and will compete on snow made in
hangars.  There are also plans to stage an event in New York City
although that is still in the early stages, Kasper said.  Holding races in major cities is important “to create an
interest in the sport and in our athletes,” FIS chief race
director Guenther Hujara said. “We have to build a platform,
and we want to have global stars.”  Munich’s Olympic Park will hold its World Cup city event on
New Year’s Day, while Moscow’s race is scheduled for Jan. 29 at
the Luzhniki Olympic Complex.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Soelden,  Austria , through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Caronello in Soelden, Austria at  scaronello@bloomberg.net 
or   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  