-- Wal-Mart Seeks Denial of Florida Class Gender-Bias Claim
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-29T18:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/wal-mart-seeks-dismissal-of-gender-bias-class-action-in-florida.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  asked a federal
judge to deny a bid by 11 women to pursue gender-discrimination
claims on behalf of female employees who worked for the retailer
in  Florida ,  North Carolina ,  Virginia  and four other southeastern
U.S. states.  Citing a 2011 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that shattered a
planned national group lawsuit known as Dukes v. Wal-Mart, the
company on Oct. 26 asked Fort Lauderdale, Florida, U.S. District
Judge Robert N. Scola Jr. to reject the women’s bid to create a
smaller, regional suit and asked him to limit participation in
the case to those who brought it.  Filed on Oct. 4, the Fort Lauderdale lawsuit is one of four
regional cases being pressed by women who worked for the world’s
biggest retailer and allegedly suffered pay and promotion
discrimination.  “The  Supreme Court  held that the Dukes plaintiffs could
not proceed on behalf of a nationwide class, not because of its
size, but because plaintiffs had failed to ‘establish the
existence of any common question,’” the Bentonville, Arkansas-
based company told Scola in its filing.  Wal-Mart currently employs more than 94,000 people in
Florida alone, the company said, citing the plaintiffs’
complaint.  Bid Dismissed  While Wal-Mart contends the class action rejected by the
Supreme Court cannot be revived, plaintiffs’ attorney Joseph Sellers said in a phone interview today that other high court
precedent supports his position.  Members of a failed class don’t lose the right to sue as a
group simply because the time to do so lapsed while legal
challenges were pending, he said.  “Our clients ultimately want a chance to try their
claims,” Sellers said. “If they win, they win. If they lose,
they lose.”  U.S. District Judge Reed O’Connor in  Dallas  on Oct. 15
dismissed a bid by women from  Texas  and neighboring states to
sue the company as a group, ruling the class claims were filed
too late.  The original Dukes case is still pending in  San Francisco ,
where a federal judge last month said a group could be certified
if it meets criteria outlined by the Supreme Court. Another case
has been filed in Tennessee.  The case is Love v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., 12-cv-61959, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  