-- Who Benefits From Keeping Interest Rates Low?
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-10-29T22:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/who-benefits-from-keeping-interest-rates-low-.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  calculates that the benefits of a third round of
quantitative easing will outweigh the negatives.  By buying mortgage-related securities, the Fed aims to
further drive down house-loan rates to encourage refinancing and
induce home buying. Yet  mortgage rates  have already declined
tremendously with no obvious impact on housing activity, and
homebuyers certainly didn’t show the enthusiasm for the first
two rounds of quantitative easing that equity investors did.  Some observers believe the Fed wants to use inflation and
negative real rates to reduce the burden of the Treasury’s huge
debt by paying bond holders negative real returns. I am
skeptical that the Fed has any sinister motivation. This notion
of a policy of “financial repression” belongs in the same
category as the mistaken belief that the Fed is hyping its
balance sheet and bank reserves to generate serious inflation as
a way to reduce the real value of federal debt, also at the
expense of government-security owners. Such strategies are the
hallmark of the likes of  Zimbabwe  or banana republics.  Yet the absence of sinister motivations doesn’t mean the
Fed’s actions haven’t had distorting effects on the economy.
 Interest rates  close to zero create deviations from the norm and
produce a new set of relationships that few forecasters and
policy makers fully understand. This low- or no-interest-rate
world also has winners and losers.  Negative Rates  Let’s look at the beneficiaries. At a zero  federal funds
rate , the Fed can’t cut any further in reaction to economic
weakness. If deflation occurs, the central bank can’t push real
rates negative to stimulate borrowing. Furthermore, the lack of
response to almost-zero interest rates by lenders and borrowers
is what compelled the Fed, and earlier the  Bank of Japan , into
the new world of quantitative easing. This and other non-
interest rate actions taken previously also have pushed the Fed
uncomfortably close to fiscal policy and threatened its
independence.  While I doubt that the Fed in any way intended to ease the
federal debt and  deficit , it is important to keep in mind that
low interest rates keep the cost of financing the debt low, even
as the amount of borrowing leaps. I wouldn’t suggest, of course,
that these low financing costs encourage Congress and the
administration to delay dealing with the mushrooming federal
debt.  Still, after deducting its own operating expenses, the Fed
returns the interest it receives on the holding of Treasuries
and agency securities to the Treasury, helping to offset the
deficit. In a recent speech, Bernanke said that in the past
three years the Fed has remitted $200 billion to the Treasury.
Central banking is a neat game. The Fed creates money out of
thin air, uses it to buy securities and then sends the interest,
after expenses, back to the government. How do the rest of us
get in on it?  Central-bank rates close to zero also promoted the strange
phenomenon of negative returns on  short-term government
securities . Then there is the recent negative 0.75 percent yield
on 10-year Treasury inflation-protected securities, whose
returns are adjusted for inflation. If annual consumer-price
increases over the next decade turn out to be 2.5 percent, as
forecast by the spread between 10-year TIPS and 10-year Treasury
notes, the return on the TIPS would be slightly less than 2.5
percent annually.  The federal government, of course, isn’t the only borrower
benefiting from low interest costs and negative real rates.
Residential  mortgagors , if they can qualify for loans, obviously
are getting a break with 30-year rates at 3.4 percent.  Corporate Debt  Investment-grade corporations have been able to issue debt
and refinance at low rates, and many are doing so. In July, $75
billion was issued, a record for any July, at 3.2 percent
average yields, a record low, and particularly noteworthy
compared with an average 7.2 percent yield over the last 30
days. In the third quarter, $257 billion was issued, 64 percent
more than a year earlier. To be sure, low corporate-bond yields
are partly due to individual investors’ disdain for stocks; and
investment-grade corporates also have appeal as havens.  Low interest costs as well as tax deductibility make it
attractive to issue bonds instead of equity. Some entities are
issuing century bonds. Last year, the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , Norfolk Southern Corp., Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
 Procter & Gamble Co . and Coca-Cola Co. all locked up borrowing
that doesn’t mature for 100 years.  In August 2011, the University of  Southern California 
issued $300 million in century bonds with a 5.25 percent coupon
yield, compared with a 3.4 percent yield at the time on 30-year
Treasuries. The relatively small premium for an additional 70
years suggests that buyers of that issue don’t see a danger of
inflation for many years.  Another winner from low interest rates, and especially QE3,
are agency securities. On Sept. 13, when QE3 was announced,
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  mortgage-backed securities with a 3 percent interest-
rate coupon jumped 1-10/32 points, outperforming the 10-year
Treasury note by 1-4/36 points. Normally, the performance
difference in a trading day is less than 5/32 point. The Fed’s
$40 billion-a-month purchase of agency debt via QE3 is the
equivalent of a major part of the normal $140 billion monthly
issuance.  Dividend-paying stocks have also benefited from low
interest rates, despite average yields of only 2.1 percent for
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  stocks. Furthermore, the equities
collapse in 2008 and the S&P 500’s zero net gain from 1998
through 2011 and no gain in 2011 have steered many institutional
and individual investors to bonds and to stocks that pay high,
sustainable and increasing dividends. These investors want
income here and now as opposed to pie-in-the-sky  capital
appreciation  sometime in the future.  Dividend Payouts  Investors are putting increasing pressure on corporate
managements to pay dividends, and in August, S&P 500 companies
paid out a record $34 billion. This pressure is also reflected
in stock repurchases. Although they aren’t always completed, the
timing of actual purchases is uncertain and repurchases
sometimes simply offset new issuances to employees,  S&P 500
companies (SPX)  have announced $429 billion in equity buybacks for
2012. That’s down, however, from $555 billion last year.  Companies such as  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
that are no longer perceived as  growth stocks  are under heavy
pressure to pay dividends.  Wal-Mart’s (WMT)  dividends have risen 5.3
times in the past decade and the dividend yield is now an
average 2.1 percent, even as the stock price has risen only
about 50 percent in that time.  Interestingly, the total return on dividend-paying stocks
beat nonpayers in every year since 2000, except 2003 and 2009.
If $10,000 had been invested in nondividend-paying stocks in
1979, it would have been worth $250,000 in 2010, but the same
amount invested in dividend-payers would have risen to $413,000.
Part of this superior result, of course, is the compounding of
reinvested dividends.  Interest rates close to zero have also made highly
leveraged speculation in commodities very cheap. Still,
commodity prices have been declining on balance since early
2011, suggesting that low-cost financing, droughts and other
positive factors have been more than offset by the global
recession and hard landing in  China .  I have always been agnostic on gold. Its price is
influenced by so many forces that it is hard to figure out how
they play out on balance, and often they cancel each other out.
Think about political risk, economic uncertainty, inflation and
deflation, central-bank holdings, Indians who buy gold in good
times and trade down to silver in bad, new gold-mining
techniques, the gold bugs who hold a gold bar in one hand and an
AK-47 and dried food in the other.  In the inflationary 1970s, gold leaped to more than $800
per ounce as it was sought as an inflation hedge. Then its price
fell for two decades. The current jump seems to be a haven play
and also reflects distrust for paper currencies in general.
There has been little inflation lately, and the dollar has been
trending up, so those factors aren’t responsible. Gold is also
probably being propelled by low interest rates, which reduce its
carrying costs, and the uncertain atmosphere that surrounds zero
or even negative rates. Still, gold returns nothing, and even at
zero interest rates, costs money to keep secure and to store.  Tomorrow, I will describe the negative effects of low
interest rates.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the second in a five-part series.
Read  Part 1 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on using the WTO to curb  China’s
unfair trade  and on  abortion, rape and politics ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  how Hurricane Sandy affects  the presidential
campaign;  Noah Feldman  on the  next U.S. president’s Supreme
Court picks ;  Edward Glaeser  on how  San Francisco beat Detroit  in
the economic race;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on whether  Romney is “going
soft” on Iran ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on his hopes for a  Romney
presidency ; Richard Vedder on those stifling the  online
revolution in higher education .  To contact the writer of this article:
Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  