-- Why San Francisco Beat Detroit
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-10-29T22:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/why-san-francisco-beat-detroit.html
Couldn’t the  San Francisco Giants ,
representatives of the second-wealthiest U.S. metropolitan area,
 manage  to lose at least one World Series game to the  Detroit
Tigers , the standard-bearers for one of the most troubled U.S.
urban areas?  The ever-magnanimous  New York  Yankees generously boosted
the Motor City’s morale by giving the Tigers a clean sweep in
the American League Championship Series, but the  Giants  crushed
their opponents. Perhaps the Giants felt compelled to send the
country, and our presidential candidates, a clear reminder that
their home city, and not  Detroit , provides a clear model for
America’s economic future.  Yet their victory should also remind us that the San
Francisco model is not always kind to less-skilled Americans.  As recently as the early 1970s,  San Francisco  and Detroit
seemed to be on a similar trajectory. The San Francisco area’s
per capita income was 31 percent higher than the U.S. average in
the 1970 census;  incomes in Detroit  were also a healthy 18
percent above the nation. Their central cities had both been
declining from 1950 to 1970, like most older U.S. urban areas.
Murder rates were already quite high in Detroit, but San
Francisco was filled with fear of the  Zodiac Killer , who
provided the model for Dirty Harry’s first antagonist.  Income Disparity  Today, the two areas couldn’t seem more different. In 2010
(the latest year available), per capita income was $59,295 in
the San Francisco area, which was  wealthier  than any
metropolitan area except for Bridgeport,  Connecticut  (including
Greenwich and  Stamford ). It was $38,197 in the Detroit area. The
mean  household income  in the city of San Francisco in 2011 was
 more than  $100,000; the comparable number for the city of
Detroit was $35,709. The  unemployment rate  in greater San
Francisco is 8.2 percent; the unemployment rate in greater
Detroit is 10.9 percent. San Francisco had about six murders per
100,000 people in 2011, while Detroit had more than 48 murders
per 100,000.  Those remarkable economic and social differences help
explain the different population paths of the two cities since
1970. Detroit’s population declined by 37 percent from 1970 to
2000, and fell by an additional 25 percent from 2000 to 2010.
San Francisco’s population actually rose by more than 12 percent
from 1970 to 2010. In 1950, Detroit’s population of 1.85 million
was 139 percent higher than San Francisco’s population, but
today San Francisco is the more populous city, despite Detroit’s
having more than twice as much land.  Detroit’s decline was rooted in its spectacular 20th
century rise. Like San Francisco, Detroit rose as a port -- the
city is named for straits that ultimately connect Lake Huron
(via Lake St. Claire) and Lake Erie. Companies, such as Detroit
Dry Dock, formed on those straits to sell to the vast flows of
American waterborne commerce. Those companies provided training
for talented farm boys, such as  Henry Ford , who ultimately
became one of Detroit’s great automobile entrepreneurs -- a
cluster  comparable in every way  to the nexus of talent that
gathered in Silicon Valley 70 years later.  The talented men -- Charles Kirby, the Dodge Brothers, the
Fisher Brothers, Ransom E. Olds (in Lansing), Billy Durant (in
Flint) -- competed and cooperated and collectively created the
mass-produced automobile.  Ford’s big idea was mass production with automated assembly
lines, and this innovation both made Detroit marvelously
productive and blessed ordinary Americans with wonderfully
affordable Model T’s. Ford paid $5 a day, bringing remarkable
prosperity to ordinary Americans, something that San Francisco’s
Silicon Valley has so far failed to achieve.  Isolated Factories  But vast factories, such as Ford’s River Rouge, are
kingdoms unto themselves. They don’t need the cities that
surround them, and when economic conditions change, factories
are  relocated  to lower-cost areas, such as the right-to-work
states of the South and the developing world.  San Francisco’s manufacturing base, including its once-
mighty shipyard at Hunter’s Point, also declined after World War
II. But the city, unlike Detroit, was able to rebuild itself,
because it had skills and entrepreneurship.  Detroit in its heyday was marvelously productive, but it
was never education-intensive. In 1950, only 5 percent of the
Detroit area’s adults had college degrees and that number had
only increased to 9 percent by 1970. Wages were so good in the
factories, why would anyone waste time in college? Nine percent
of the San Francisco area’s adults had college degrees in 1950,
and that number had doubled by 1970.  From 1940 to 2000, those places that started with slightly
more education typically experienced  far faster  growth in human
capital. By 2000, 44 percent of greater San Francisco had a
bachelor’s degree, as opposed to 23 percent of adults in greater
Detroit.  Informal skills, learned on the job and at the breakfast
table, such as the talent and inclination to be an entrepreneur
can be even more important for urban success. Detroit taught
plenty of informal skills, especially around the assembly line,
but its big companies didn’t inculcate entrepreneurship.  The middle managers of General Motors may have been superb
cogs in a corporate machine, but they were not trained to start
an electronic greeting company if things went wrong for GM. San
Francisco had fewer dominant companies and consequently more
entrepreneurs per capita. Entrepreneurs, such as Donald Fisher,
who founded San Francisco’s the Gap, always play an outsize role
in urban rebirth.  Skills enabled San Francisco to specialize in creating
ideas, while Detroit remained a center of goods production.
Measures of skill, such as the share of the population with a
college degree, do a good job  explaining  the relative success of
U.S. cities. Measures of entrepreneurship, such as having a lot
of small companies, also  predict  employment growth.  Weather Matters  Globalization has been kind to idea-intensive workers, who
can now capitalize on their insights by selling and producing
across the world, but it has been  murder on  good U.S. producers
who face cutthroat competition from overseas. San Francisco also
has better weather, and temperature in January is yet another
predictor of urban success.  President  Barack Obama  points to assembly lines as a symbol
of his success in rebuilding America, but Detroit doesn’t seem
like an urban success story to me. In 2011, 37 percent of
Detroit residents older than 16 were  employed , as opposed to 63
percent of San Francisco’s adults. It is easy to imagine that
San Francisco’s corporate heroes, such Apple Inc. and Google
Inc. and Twitter Inc., will lead the world in the 21st century.
It is far harder to imagine any similar success for General
Motors, despite the bailout.  San Francisco’s success symbolizes the extraordinary
importance of education and innovation, which are the ultimate
creators of urban and national success. Detroit’s failure
reminds us that American manufacturing faces the tremendous
challenge of competing with lower-wage areas.  Yet I understand President Obama’s fondness for assembly
lines: Those assembly lines provided an enormous number of
decent jobs for ordinary Americans. Henry Ford provided
employment for hundreds of thousands of less-skilled Americans.
Apple’s success has brought wealth to thousands of skilled
Americans, but manufacturing predominantly occurs offshore. A
more prosperous future for all Americans must combine the
innovation of Silicon Valley with the inclusiveness of Detroit.  I hope that the next generation of U.S. entrepreneurs will
figure out opportunities for the millions of less-skilled
Americans. Every unemployed person is ultimately a failure of
entrepreneurial imagination. Until that happens, we must invest
more in educating the less fortunate, and hope that a bit of
Detroit’s ability to employ the less skilled rubs off on San
Francisco, and a bit of San Francisco’s economic energy rubs off
on Detroit.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on using the WTO to curb  China’s
unfair trade  and on  abortion, rape and politics ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  how Hurricane Sandy affects  the presidential
campaign;  Noah Feldman  on the  next U.S. president’s Supreme
Court picks ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on whether  Romney is “going soft”
on Iran ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on his hopes for a  Romney presidency ; A.
Gary Shilling on the  beneficiaries of low interest rates ;
Richard Vedder on those stifling the  online revolution in higher
education .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 