-- Rich Stuck as Salient Curbs Withdrawals for Investors
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-10-29T14:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/yale-strategy-leaves-rich-stranded-as-salient-curbs-redemptions.html
Salient Partners LP, whose $3.3
billion Endowment Fund mimics the strategy of sophisticated
institutions like Yale University and the Ford Foundation, is
limiting withdrawals after clients pulled more than $1 billion
this year amid lackluster returns.  Instead of allowing investors to redeem at their
discretion, the fund will return 5 percent of assets as of Dec.
31, according to a letter to clients obtained by Bloomberg News.
Clients who want to keep their money in the fund may be able to
reinvest the cash they receive.  “The board determined that allowing the prior pace of net
outflows to continue would likely result in the illiquid asset
percentage reaching a level that would disadvantage the fund’s
remaining investors,” Salient said in the letter dated Oct. 26,
adding that the fund has 35 percent of assets in hard-to-sell
investments.  The Endowment Fund, whose slogan is “democratizing
investing,” is designed to offer wealthy individuals a strategy
that has historically been open only to the most sophisticated
institutions, investing in assets ranging from stocks and bonds
to hedge funds, private equity and real estate. Now these
investors are getting the same treatment that endowments and
foundations received in 2008: A manager is blocking them from
getting their money out.  No ‘Emergency’  “When investors bought this fund they had no expectations
that they would be restricted in pulling their money unless
there was some sort of emergency,” said  Geoff Bobroff , a fund
consultant based in East Greenwich, Rhode Island. “I’m not sure
this is an emergency.”  The fund did not say in the letter when it would allow full
redemptions again. While Houston-based Salient sells the fund,
it is managed by Mark Yusko’s Morgan Creek Capital Management
LLC in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Before starting Morgan Creek
in July 2004, Yusko was the chief investment officer at the
University of North Carolina. He also spent five years at the
University of Notre Dame Investment Office.  Morgan Creek, which offers its own fund of funds, limited
withdrawals in its Morgan Creek Absolute Return Fund in 2008,
according to an investor, who asked not to be named because the
fund is private. As of October of that year, about 18 percent of
the hedge fund industry’s assets were subject to withdrawal
restrictions, according to GFIA Pte, a Singapore-based hedge
fund consulting firm.  Minimum Investments  While investors must have a net worth of at least $1
million to put money into the Endowment Fund, the minimum
investments are much lower than other vehicles such as hedge
funds, helping the fund to attract $5.5 billion as of mid-2011,
according to a regulatory filing. The minimum initial investment
is $100,000, and additional investments are as low as $25,000
according to a fund sales document. The fund had 17,035
investors, according to a fund letter dated Sept. 28.  The Endowment Fund is among the larger funds registered
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that offer
alternative investments to wealthy clients. Banks including
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. also sell registered
funds that invest in hedge funds.  Yusko and Chris Moon, a spokesman for Salient, declined to
comment.  The Endowment Fund has been sold by brokers at Merrill
Lynch & Co., now a part of  Bank of America Corp.  The bank has
put the sale of the fund on hold, according to the Wall Street
Journal, which first reported the withdrawal limits on Oct. 26.  The Endowment Fund doesn’t come cheap. The clients pay a 2
percent management fee, in addition to the underlying fees of
managers that averaged 1.3 percent of assets and 16 percent of
profits, according to an Endowment Fund sales document.  Merrill Clients  Clients of Merrill Lynch brokers paid a 2.5 percent sales
fee for an investment up to $150,000, with fees dropping as the
investment size grew. They were also charged an additional 2
percent fee if they withdrew their money before the end of the
first year.  The Endowment Fund has returned an annualized 5.6 percent
since its inception in April 2003, underperforming stocks and a
portfolio of 60 percent stocks and 40 percent bonds, according
to a September letter to clients, while beating a Hedge Fund
Research Inc. index that tracks  funds of hedge funds . Its goal
is to return 7 percent above inflation with less volatility than
stock or bond markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  