-- Yuan NDFs Drop as Baidu Outlook Trails Analysts: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-29T21:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/yuan-ndfs-weaken-as-new-oriental-earnings-miss-china-overnight.html
Investors boosted bearish bets on
the yuan, driving forwards down the most in six days, on
speculation Chinese policy makers are less inclined to allow
appreciation or to ease monetary policy to support the economy.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the yuan weakened
0.18 percent to 6.36 per dollar yesterday in  New York , defying
the currency’s surge to a 19-year high in  Shanghai . Equity
trading on U.S. exchanges was canceled for two days as  Hurricane
Sandy  moved toward  New York City .  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  issued a fourth-
quarter sales forecast that trails analysts’ forecasts, while
 New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU)  reported lower-
than-estimated earnings.  Further strength in the yuan, which is poised for its third
monthly gain versus the dollar, is unlikely because of economic
“uncertainty,”  China  Securities Journal reported yesterday,
citing Chen Daofu, a researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center. The People’s Bank of China is also
“much less” inclined to continue cuts to bank reserve ratios,
Financial News, a publication attached to the central bank, said
in a front-page commentary yesterday.  “Foreigners are generally skeptical of China’s recovery,”
Gabriel Wallach, chief investment officer at BNP Paribas
Investment Partners in  Boston , said in a phone interview
yesterday. “We’re still in the early days and investors have
been disappointed with the speed of Chinese authorities in terms
of cutting  interest rates  and banks’ reserve requirements.”  Rising Inflows  The decline widened the yuan forward contracts’  discount  to
the onshore rate to 1.8 percent, from a gap of 1.5 percent on
Oct. 26. The yuan appreciated 0.08 percent to 6.2436 per dollar
yesterday in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trading System. It touched 6.2371, the highest level in 19
years.  Yuan positions at local lenders accumulated from sales of
foreign exchange to the central bank, an indicator of investment
inflows, rose 130.7 billion yuan ($21 billion) to 25.77 trillion
yuan in September, after two months of declines, according to
official data issued on Oct. 19. China-focused equity funds took
in $913 million in the week ended Oct. 24, the most since July
2008, Cambridge, Massachusetts-based data provider EPFR Global
said in an e-mail Oct. 26.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares fell 0.4
percent to a one-month low of 2,058.94 yesterday. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong 
climbed 0.9 percent to 10,546.24, after a 2.2 percent loss last
week.  Sinopec Profit  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. declined 1.3 percent last week
after rising in the previous four weeks.  Baidu Inc., which runs the most-popular search engine in
China, said third-quarter profit rose 60 percent from a year
earlier to 3.01 billion yuan. The average forecast of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for 2.77 billion yuan.  The Beijing-based company expects sales in the fourth
quarter to increase as much as 42 percent to 6.35 billion yuan,
after gaining 50 percent in the previous three months, according
to its statement yesterday. That falls below the analysts’
projection of 6.41 billion yuan. Baidu’s American depositary
receipts have lost 2.6 percent this month to $113.83 by Oct. 26.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,  Asia ’s biggest refiner
that is also known as Sinopec, posted better-than-expected third
quarter profit as two increases in state-controlled retail fuel
prices and improved petrochemical sales bolstered earnings.  Below Cost  China, which controls retail fuel prices to contain
inflation, raised prices in August and September, after
inflation dropped to 1.9 percent in September from as high as
4.5 percent in January. Sinopec is forced to sell fuel below
cost under the pricing system.  Net income fell 9.4 percent to 18.3 billion yuan ($2.93
billion) in the three months ended Sept. 30, from 20.2 billion
yuan a year ago, Sinopec said Oct. 28 in a statement. That beat
the 14.19 billion- yuan  median of nine analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sinopec’s American depositary receipts have dropped 1.3
percent this year to $163.67 when they last traded in New York
on Oct. 26.  New Oriental, the biggest private educational service
provider in China, said yesterday that net income for the three
months ended Aug. 31 increased by 5.7 percent from a year ago to
$95.9 million, missing the $113 million average projection of
four  analysts . The company’s 61-cent per share profit compared
with the analysts’ forecast for 72 cents per share.  SEC Investigation  ADRs of Beijing-based New Oriental have dropped 31 percent
this year. The company said in an Oct. 12 statement that the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which started an
investigation into New Oriental in July, has no objection to the
inclusion of its schools into its China-based units, and to the
consolidation of the Chinese entity into the listed company’s
financial statements.  Muddy Waters LLC, a short-selling firm founded by  Carson
Block , first alleged in July that New Oriental misled the market
about the number of its schools, accusations New Oriental
denied.  China Telecom Corp., the country’s biggest fixed-line
carrier, said yesterday that third-quarter profit fell 7.3
percent after it subsidized Apple Inc. iPhones to boost wireless
users. Net income fell to 3.75 billion yuan from about 4.05
billion yuan a year earlier, the Beijing-based company said in a
statement. Sales in the third quarter rose 16 percent to 72
billion yuan.  Spreadtrum Downgraded  Sina Corp. (SINA) , which runs the Twitter-like Weibo service in
China, was cut to the equivalent of sell at HSBC Holdings Plc by
Hong Kong-based analyst Chi Tsang, who also lowered his price
target for the company to $54 from $62. Sina’s shares have lost
13 percent this month.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a Shanghai-based maker of
mobile phone chips, was initiated as a new buy by Deutsche Bank
AG equity analyst Jessica Chang, who set a 12-month target price
of $28.70. The company’s shares have advanced 11 percent this
month to $22.70 on Oct. 26 in New York.  BYD Co. (BYDDF) , the Chinese carmaker partly owned by  Warren
Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said yesterday that net
income this year may fall as much as 98 percent to 27.7 million
yuan, as a slowing global economy damps demand for its cars,
batteries and solar-energy cells. Its ADRs have gained 13
percent this month in over-the-counter trading in the U.S.,
paring losses this year to 8.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  