-- Rupee, Ringgit Slide as Hurricane Shuts U.S. Markets; Yuan Rises
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-10-29T10:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-29/yuan-leads-gain-in-asian-currencies-on-u-s-gdp-chinese-data.html
India’s rupee and Malaysia’s ringgit
slid the most among Asian currencies as Hurricane Sandy forced
the U.S. to shut equity markets, while  China ’s yuan rose to a
19-year high on signs of a pickup in the global economy.  The U.S. securities industry canceled trading on all
markets today, moving to protect workers as the storm barreled
toward  New York  City with 70-mile-per-hour winds. The country
holds its presidential election on Nov. 6, and Democratic
Senator  Mark Warner  of Virginia said the weather would “throw
havoc” into the race.  “There’s general  risk aversion ,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja ,
an economist in  Singapore  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
“This is the final week before the U.S. election. If financial
markets in the U.S. will be closed for a prolonged period
because of Hurricane Sandy, people would like to hold dollars.”  India’s rupee dropped 0.8 percent to 54.0175 per dollar as
of 3:59 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The ringgit weakened 0.6 percent to 3.0615, while the Philippine
peso fell 0.1 percent to 41.245. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia
Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-active
currencies outside of  Japan , slid 0.1 percent.  India’s rupee earlier touched 54.08, its lowest level in a
month, on speculation importers stepped up dollar purchases to
pay month-end bills.  Importers Buy Dollars  Demand for the greenback increased as trading resumed after
a three-day break due to a local holiday, and the rupee may pare
its losses if inflows into the stock market increase, according
to Edelweiss Financial Advisors Ltd. Investors are awaiting the
 Reserve Bank  of India’s monetary policy review tomorrow, and the
Indian currency could surge in the event of an interest-rate
cut, it said in a report today.  The RBI will keep its repurchase rate at 8 percent
tomorrow, according to 16 of 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Eleven expect a 25 basis point reduction and one
predicts a half percentage point cut. The central bank will
lower lenders’ reserve requirements to 4.25 percent from 4.50
percent, according to 18 of the analysts, while eight see no
change and two forecast a cut to 4 percent.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, faster than the 1.8 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey, official figures showed Oct. 26. The net
income of Chinese industrial companies rose 7.8 percent in
September from a year earlier, the first increase in six months,
according to a report released Oct. 27 in Beijing.  Stronger Yuan  The  yuan  gained 0.08 percent to 6.2436 per dollar in
 Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency touched 6.2371 earlier, the strongest level since
the government unified the official and market exchange rates at
the end of 1993.  Yuan  positions  at local lenders accumulated from sales of
foreign exchange to the central bank, an indicator of investment
inflows, rose 130.7 billion yuan ($21 billion) to 25.77 trillion
yuan in September, after two months of declines, according to
official data released Oct. 19. Reports this month showed a
pickup in retail sales, manufacturing and exports, while the
Chinese currency has rallied 2 percent since the end of July.  “This round of appreciation reflects the renewed
confidence that the economy is recovering,” said  Nizam Idris ,
head of Asian fixed income and foreign-exchange at Macquarie
Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “If you look at the new banking sector
foreign-exchange purchases, numbers are suggesting inflows are
returning,” said Idris, adding that he forecast the yuan would
end the year at a similar level to where it is today.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar closed at NT$29.292 against its
U.S. counterpart, compared with NT$29.30 at the end of last
week. Indonesia’s rupiah was little changed at 9,609, while
Thailand’s baht was steady at 30.74. South Korea’s won
appreciated 0.1 percent to 1,095.90.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  