-- 
Tea Party Freshman Finds Voters Uneasy About Stance on Debt

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-07-25T20:28:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/-crazy-freshman-finds-his-tea-party-stance-on-debt-makes-backers-nervous.html
Illinois Representative Joe Walsh
rode a wave of economic anxiety to an upset win last November.
Now, he’s trying not to get pulled under as voters concerned
about a debt default turn a skeptical eye toward his service.  At a July 22 town hall meeting in a community center gym
just north of  Chicago  in Lindenhurst, the freshman Republican
paced the room as he told the crowd of about 80 constituents
that President  Barack Obama  has mishandled the economy and
overstated the repercussions of a default on the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt. Not everyone was buying it.  “I disagree with you,” said Tom Weber, a Walsh supporter
who watched his construction business decline during the
recession. “I think not only the president doesn’t understand,
I think Congress doesn’t understand,” he added, as the audience
burst into applause.  National polling shows that Republicans are critical of
their party’s role in the negotiations aimed at paving the way
for a vote to increase the debt ceiling. Almost 6 in 10 said
Republican leaders are too resistant to a deal, according to a
July 19  Washington  Post-ABC News poll.  How the role of the new House majority in the debt talks is
ultimately judged by voters will be critical in the 2012
elections, when Walsh and 86 other House Republican freshmen
will be up for re-election and control of the chamber will hinge
on their collective fates.  Obama ‘Lying’  Walsh, who on a web-video and cable talk shows has accused
Obama of “lying” about the seriousness of an Aug. 2 default,
is already a prime target for the Democrats.  He has been among the most outspoken critics of the
bipartisan negotiations, which has made him a favorite of anti-
government Tea Party activists, limited the maneuvering room of
House Speaker  John Boehner  in his negotiations with Obama, and
caught the attention of his constituents -- not always in a good
way.  “The thing that concerns me the most is a default,”
Jeanne Marie Dauray, a 39-year-old paralegal, asked Walsh in a
town hall meeting. “Isn’t this of concern?”  Walsh, bouncing on his heels, explained that he believes
accepting a deal that doesn’t mandate balanced budgets and deep
cuts is more dangerous than failing to raise the debt ceiling.  “I don’t believe anybody in Washington is going to change
the course we are on unless we force them to,” he said.  291-Vote Victory  A former teacher with a history of foreclosure and liens
for failing to pay income taxes, Walsh ran against runaway
spending in Washington and the health-care overhaul law and won
his swing district in 2010 by just 291 votes. He defeated
Democratic Representative Melissa Bean, who had the support of
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other business organizations.  Among his constituents, 34 percent are employed by
financial services companies, according to Bloomberg data. The
industry is pressing Congress to raise the debt ceiling, as all
three major  credit rating agencies  have threatened to downgrade
the country if there is a default.  The cost of insuring  U.S. debt  rose amid the partisan
standoff in Washington over raising the borrowing limit, sending
credit-default swaps on Treasuries up three basis points to
56.15, approaching the highest in 17 months, according to CMA
Analytics.  Two-year Treasury yields increased two basis points today
to 0.42 percent and 10-year yields added four points to 3.01
percent. It is still below the 10-year average of 4.06 percent.  Constituent Paulson  Former Treasury Secretary  Hank Paulson , a retired Goldman
Sachs chief executive officer and the architect of the bank
bailout during the  Bush administration , is one of Walsh’s
constituents. Paulson recently urged lawmakers to adopt a
“sense of urgency” toward raising the limit.  “Failing to raise the debt ceiling would do irreparable
harm to our credit standing, would undermine our ability to lead
on global economic issues and would damage our economy,” he
said in a July 22 statement.  Smaller companies in the district are also concerned.  “I’m worried about not only our credit but how our whole
banking system and finances are going to be affected,” said
Jason Speer, general manager of Quality Float Works, Inc., a
metal products company that employs 24 people in Schaumburg.
“There could be a giant ripple effect.”  Walsh said he doesn’t want the country to default.  “I’m a crazy Tea Party freshman and I don’t want the
country to default,” he told voters. “None of us do.”  Already Compromised  His position is that he has already compromised by voting
to raise the debt ceiling as part of legislation that would cut
 government spending , cap future federal budgets, and install a
constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget. The  U.S.
Senate  rejected that legislation on July 22.  Walsh remains unbowed. He said he’s willing to go beyond
the Aug. 2 deadline -- a possibility dismissed by Republican
leaders -- if it means  House Republicans  can get their plan
passed.  “I don’t know why we’re talking to this president,” he
said, as he ate a grilled cheese sandwich between constituent
events. “The bolder Republicans are these 16 months, the better
off we’ll be politically.”  Tea Party leaders have urged their members to support his
efforts by encouraging them to sign a letter Walsh wrote urging
House leaders to oppose a plan drafted by Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, that would authorize
Obama to raise the debt ceiling without congressional approval.  ‘Facts on the Line’  “The people in  Illinois  appreciate that he’s coming out
and calling the president a liar and putting the facts on the
line,” said Jenny Beth Martin, co-founder of Tea Party
Patriots, in an interview.  Democrats are already maneuvering to retake his seat. The
Democratic-controlled Illinois legislature has redrawn his 8th
District to favor their party. Walsh’s home is now outside its
boundaries.  Iraq war veteran Tammy Duckworth, the former Democratic
assistant secretary at the Department of  Veterans Affairs  who
may challenge Walsh, is on the attack.  “He is now a voice for a rigid element that I think people
are very uncomfortable with,” she said in an interview.  Illinois political strategists expect Walsh to run in the
more heavily Republican 14th District, which would create a
contested primary with fellow freshman Randy Hultgren.  Safe Seat  The 14th, said Illinois Republican strategist Doug O’Brien,
offers Walsh the chance to hold a safe Republican seat.  “The general consensus is that the 8th is going to be a
very, very difficult district for any Republican to win,” he
said.  Walsh said he will wait for the results of a Republican
Party lawsuit challenging the new district lines before he
decides where he’s running.  To his constituents, he stressed that he is his own man.  “Boehner, my speaker, gets mad at me a lot because I don’t
vote with him a lot,” he told voters.  Still, he is aware of the risks of his outspoken position.
“If most in this district doesn’t like what I’ve done, what
will they do to me in 18 months,” he asked voters in Gurnee.
“Boom, they’re going to send me right back home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington
at   or  llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  