-- 
‘You’re Fired’ Doesn’t Mean Fired to Four of 10 Air Controllers

-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s ,   C h a r l e s   B a b c o c k   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 
2011-07-25T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/-you-re-fired-doesn-t-mean-fired-to-four-of-10-air-controllers.html
Moments before a single-engine
aircraft and a helicopter collided over the  Hudson River  near
 Manhattan  in 2009, an air-traffic controller who should have
been advising the plane’s pilot was on the phone, joking with an
airport worker about a dead cat.  Nine people, including three teenage boys, died. The
Teterboro,  New Jersey , controller, whom safety investigators
said was distracted and partly to blame for the accident, still
works for the  Federal Aviation Administration . Although the
agency tried to fire him, his punishment was reduced to a
suspension, a transfer and a demotion.  What happened to the controller isn’t surprising, according
to data obtained by Bloomberg News under the Freedom of
Information Act. More than four of every 10 air-traffic workers
the FAA tried to fire over almost two years kept their jobs or
were allowed to retire, the data show. That included two-thirds
of those targeted for firing over drug or alcohol violations.  “Americans should be outraged,” said  Marc Scribner ,
transportation analyst for the Competitive Enterprise Institute,
a nonprofit Washington group that advocates limited government.
“Most government employees are good people and are not screwing
up, not doing drugs, but there are bad apples in all levels of
government and they should be fired.”  The findings spotlight Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood’s challenge in carrying out his pledge to fire three
controllers caught sleeping on the job in  Seattle , Miami, and
Knoxville,  Tennessee . The Miami worker still works for the FAA
after the proposed termination was reduced to a lesser penalty,
the Seattle case is pending and the Knoxville worker retired,
according to an agency official who isn’t authorized to speak on
personnel matters and asked not to be named.  Disciplinary Data  Workers in 58 of 140 proposed firings who kept jobs had
penalties rescinded, reduced or deferred, the data show. The
disciplinary information was culled from a pool of 20,486 FAA
workers, including about 15,600 controllers, and excludes
employees with less than one year of service who lack
disciplinary protections in the union contract.  The  National Air Traffic Controllers Association , the union
for the 15,600 employees, declined three requests to respond to
the findings of the Bloomberg analysis and offered an e-mailed
comment.  Controllers “work to ensure the safety of 70,000 flights
every day and make our system the world’s safest,” Doug Church,
the group’s spokesman, wrote. “This is the story that the
public needs to hear.”  The Senate aviation subcommittee will “ensure that safety
standards are a top priority” as the panel evaluates FAA
personnel practices, said Senator  John Thune  of South Dakota,
the panel’s leading Republican, in a statement.  “While many factors need to be considered when making air
traffic control personnel decisions, safety must be the FAA’s
guiding principle,” Thune said.  Dual Protections  The FAA’s firing rate, as a percentage of its total
workforce, is similar to that of other federal agencies, where
disciplinary terminations are also rare, government data show.  Federal workers have due-process protections to prevent
wholesale firings when a new administration comes to power.
Union contracts provide another layer of protection.  Controllers are among the top-paid government workers,
according to a Web page published by Embry-Riddle Aeronautical
University in Daytona Beach,  Florida . Certified controllers,
excluding trainees, earned an average of $136,000 in the fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30, according to FAA figures.  The pay figure excludes benefits and includes overtime pay,
incentives and other sorts of extra compensation, according to
agency figures from last fiscal year.  15 Pages  The agency’s public-safety mission should allow it to fire
more easily than other government bodies can, Scribner said.
“Any time there is a greater risk of human casualties due to
government error, those employees should be held more
accountable,” he said.  Federal workers including controllers can challenge
disciplinary penalties through a  government panel  called the
Merit Systems Protection Board. Controllers also have the option
to use a process described in 15 pages of their union contract
to appeal sanctions to an arbitrator. The process has been in
contracts for at least two decades, signed during both
Republican and Democratic administrations.  Two Years  Disciplinary cases can take months, even years, to
complete. A controller appealed to the Merit Systems Protection
Board after the FAA fired him in August 2009 for testing
positive for marijuana during rehabilitation for an alcohol
violation in January of that year, according to the board, an
independent federal agency.  The FAA challenged his right to appeal, saying he had
waived it when he agreed to rehabilitation, board documents
show. The employee contends he was forced into the waiver as the
only way to keep his job, according to the documents. Almost two
years later, the case is still pending before an administrative
law judge, though the employee no longer works for the agency,
according to the agency official who couldn’t be named.  LaHood said he hasn’t given “one second worth of thought”
to seeking changes in the controller contract, which expires
next year, to make it easier to dismiss workers.  “We have due process so that people can be treated
fairly,” LaHood, whose department includes the FAA, said in an
interview in May.  The FAA’s disciplinary system is “essentially the same
process that every federal employee enjoys in the interest of
fairness,” FAA Administrator  Randy Babbitt  said in an interview
in May. “I have experience in the private sector, and it’s not
unsimilar there.” He is a former airline pilot and former head
of the Air Line Pilots Association, the world’s largest union
for cockpit crews.  ‘Kafkaesque’ System  The “Kafkaesque” FAA and federal-government personnel
processes lead to firing rates below that of the private sector,
said Andrew Steinberg, a partner at Jones Day in  Washington  and
FAA chief counsel under President  George W. Bush . “That tells
you we have extremely low standards or we aren’t able to enforce
them, and I’d say it’s the latter,” he said.  Managers who crack down on bad employees often receive
harassment, discrimination or whistle-blower complaints, said
Mary Schiavo, a former Transportation Department inspector
general.  “Federal managers take the easy way out and let some
underperformers or troublemakers retire, or they transfer
them,” said Schiavo, now an attorney with Motley Rice LLC in
Mount Pleasant,  South Carolina . “It is just easier to go with
the flow than weed out underperformers.”  ‘Fire Up the Cat’  Babbitt announced the Teterboro worker’s planned firing in
November 2009, three months after the accident, citing
violations of procedures “we expect employees to follow,
period.”  The controller, about two minutes after he had cleared a
small plane for takeoff, called an airport worker who had been
forced to pick up a dead cat.  “We got plenty of gas in the grill,” the controller said,
according to a  transcript  of the call on the  National
Transportation Safety Board ’s website. “Fire up the cat.”  The nearly three-minute call, which ended four seconds
before the collision over the Hudson, distracted the controller
from correcting the small-plane pilot’s mention of a wrong radio
frequency and delayed handing off responsibility for the flight,
according to the  board .  Penalty Reduced  The NTSB in September 2010 partly blamed the controller for
the accident, which killed five Italian sightseers -- two
teenage boys and three of their parents -- and the pilot aboard
a Eurocopter AS 350 BA. The pilot, his brother, and his 16-year-
old nephew aboard the Piper PA-32R-300 single-engine airplane
also died.  The FAA moved to fire the controller for “negligent or
careless work performance.” The termination was reduced to a
suspension in May 2010 after “the opinion by neutrals, or
outside parties, suggested” the firing wouldn’t be upheld,
Babbitt said in the interview, without elaborating. “That’s
part of the due process.”  The employee no longer controls traffic, according to the
agency official who couldn’t be named.  “He should have been fired,” House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee Chairman John Mica, a Florida
Republican, said of the controller in an interview July 14.
“That was just dereliction of duty.”  JFK Firing Dropped  Another proposed firing dropped by the FAA was of a
controller at  John F. Kennedy International Airport  in  New York 
who allowed his son and daughter to make radio calls to aircraft
from the tower on two successive days in February 2010,
according to agency data, news media reports and a recording
posted on the website  LiveATC.net .  “This is what you get, guys, when the kids are out of
school,” the controller told pilots 10 seconds after a child
cleared a  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  flight for takeoff, according to
a recording posted at LiveATC.  “These kinds of distractions are totally unacceptable,”
Babbitt said in a statement two weeks after the incidents.  The controller appealed the proposed firing, succeeded in
getting the penalty reduced to a 45-day suspension without pay
and is still on the job, according to the FAA official.  Records Request  Bloomberg requested 10 years of FAA data on controller
disciplinary actions after cases of workers napping and watching
a movie on duty became public earlier this year. Nine
controllers have been reported by the FAA as sleeping or being
unresponsive on the job since January, resulting in five
suspensions and a reprimand letter, and the three proposed
firings, according to FAA statements.  The FAA provided a database of disciplinary decisions only
from Oct. 1, 2009, through May 20, 2011, deleting names and
locations of the workers. Information from 2001 to Sept. 30,
2009, is in a database “that is no longer in use and is not
searchable,” Angela Porter, the FAA acting deputy assistant
administrator for human resource management, said in a letter
May 27.  The database provided by the FAA contained records of 715
disciplinary cases, mostly non-termination actions such as
reprimands and suspensions, from the pool of 20,486 workers.
Besides about 15,600 controllers, workers with the same job
classification included supervisors, support staff and other
executives in air-traffic management.  Firings Breakdown  The agency carried out proposed firings in 82 of 140, or 59
percent, of termination cases completed during the period, the
data show. Terminations were proposed for actions ranging from
inappropriate conduct to unauthorized absences. They led to 73
firings and nine resignations to avoid firing, the data show.  Of the other 58 cases, the penalty was lessened,
overturned, settled or rescinded in 21. In 17 cases, proposed
firings were deferred, pending no further violations, data show.
Workers were transferred, reassigned or demoted in 11 cases and
retired in nine.  The Bloomberg analysis excludes 91 cases of proposed
terminations during the 20-month period -- 33 because outcomes
haven’t been determined and 58 because workers were on
probationary status. That means they’d been federal employees
for less than a year and lacked due-process rights of more
experienced colleagues.  No Sleepers Fired  Six of the 715 disciplinary cases involved sleeping
offenses, the Bloomberg analysis found. One of those cases -- in
 Fort Worth ,  Texas , this year -- was previously publicized by the
agency.  The FAA proposed termination in one of the sleeping cases,
involving a probationary employee, who resigned. The other five
cases resulted in two letters of reprimand and three
suspensions.  Penalties for sleeping on the job when safety is endangered
range from a 14-day suspension to removal on the first offense,
and removal for the second, according to the “ Human Resources
Operating Instructions ,” a 12-page table that lists offenses
and sanctions supervisors should administer in response.  Penalties for sleeping when safety isn’t threatened start
with a reprimand to a 10-day suspension for the first offense, a
10- to 30-day suspension for the second offense, and removal for
the third offense, according to the table.  Drug, Alcohol Violations  The agency didn’t carry out proposed removals in 18 of 27,
or 67 percent, of drug or alcohol violations cited among the 140
cases, FAA data show.  In 14 cases the sanction was deferred pending an
opportunity for rehabilitation and no further violations. The
employee settled, was transferred or accepted a lesser penalty
in the other four cases, the data show.  The employee failed drug or alcohol tests in 10 of the 27
cases, the data show. In three of those 10, the worker was fired
or resigned, according to the FAA.  Controllers who test positive for illegal drugs or have a
blood-alcohol content of 0.04 percent, half the legal limit for
automobile drivers in most U.S. states, face termination,
according to the FAA’s penalty table. Workers who use illegal
drugs or misuse legal drugs off duty should be fired on the
first offense, according to the table.  Conflicting Drug Policies  However, a broader Transportation Department order calls
for employees to generally get a chance at rehabilitation after
a first failure of a drug or alcohol test. A second offense
calls for removal, according to the order.  On-duty use of alcohol, or use or possession of illegal
drugs on the job, results in termination with no offer of a
chance for rehabilitation, according to the FAA penalty table.
The FAA said July 19 it was investigating a controller near
Denver who tested positive for alcohol on the job, according to
media reports.  Giving workers a “last chance” to get off drugs and
alcohol is better than firing them, said Patrick Forrey, former
president of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association.  “Alcoholism and drug abuse addiction is a disease,”
Forrey said. “Everyone should be given one opportunity to come
forth and address that.”  0.5 Percent  The FAA overall fired 247 of 48,343 workers, or 0.51
percent, for discipline and performance reasons in the year
ending Sept. 30, 2010, based on data on the U.S. Office of
Personnel Management website. The entire government fired 11,668
of an average of 2.08 million workers on the payroll during the
same period, a 0.56 percent rate.  While there are no directly comparable figures, the Bureau
of Labor Statistics found private sector layoffs and discharges
ranged between 18 and 23 percent annually from fiscal 2001
through 2009, while the figure for the government was 4 to 8
percent during the same period.  “The disciplinary process or lack thereof is an ugly
secret in our dysfunctional government personnel system,” said
Paul Light, a professor of public service at  New York University 
who has written on federal workforce issues. “It’s nearly
impossible to fire someone” in the federal government, he said.  Fewer than one percent of federal workers get performance
ratings below “fully successful,” Jeffrey Zients, the
government’s first chief performance officer, said in a speech
in February 2010. Only 29 percent of employees believe steps are
taken to address poor performers, he said.  The government is working on “strengthening the
performance appraisal system,” said  Kenneth Baer , a senior
adviser at the Office of Management and Budget, where Zients is
based, in a statement.  ‘Damn Good Reason’  Proposed penalties at the FAA are sometimes reduced because
of poor investigations and incomplete evidence, said Forrey, the
former controllers’ union president.  “Once the facts come out, firing isn’t always the most
advantageous for the agency,” which spends years and tens of
thousands of dollars training controllers, Forrey said. “When
you’re going to talk about terminating an employee and throwing
all that away, you better have a damn good reason.”  For instance, the FAA found after proposing to fire a
controller in February, for failing to report the use of a
prescription drug, that the charge was incorrect, according to
the FAA official. The worker was transferred anyway after a
“training failure,” the data show.  Layers of Appeals  Controllers can contest the penalties under a process
described in their collective-bargaining agreement with the FAA,
if they choose not to pursue an appeal at the Merit System
Protection Board.  The agency, for instance, must give controllers 30 days
written notice of a proposed termination, according to the
contract. The worker has 15 days to reply, and the agency must
consider the response before issuing a written decision,
according to the contract.  The union can file a grievance with the agency over the
action within 20 days, and if managers uphold the termination,
the union can appeal to a higher level within the agency.  If the FAA upholds the termination again, the union can
appeal within 30 days to an independent arbitration process.
After a hearing is scheduled and an arbitrator issues a
decision, the contract allows the dispute to be taken to a U.S.
appeals court.  The FAA addresses the vast majority of disciplinary matters
before they become significant enough to warrant termination,
through steps such as decertifying workers, said William Voss, a
former FAA controller and training manager.  “When you are told you are being removed, you’re at the
end of a long road,” said Voss, chief executive officer of the
nonprofit Flight Safety Foundation, based in Alexandria,
Virginia. “You’ve done something really awful. It’s likely
something in your private life -- you stole a car or got
convicted for a drug possession.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Babcock in Washington at 
 cbabcock1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  