-- 
After a Rocky Start, Semprae’s Female Arousal Oil Gains Traction

-- B y   K a r e n   A .   F r e n k e l
-- 
2011-07-26T15:13:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/after-a-rocky-start-semprae-s-female-arousal-oil-gains-traction.html
In 2004, Zestra Laboratories started
making an over-the-counter female arousal ointment that it sold
in hundreds of  Wal-Mart (WMT)  stores across the country.
Notwithstanding a seemingly immense market of women who
experience sexual difficulties -- 43 percent in the U.S.,
according to an influential  University of Chicago  study
published in the “Journal of the  American Medical Association ”
in 1999 -- the privately held North Charleston, S.C., business
filed for bankruptcy in 2008.  “The company was undercapitalized for their business model --
mass retail distribution -- and didn’t provide women with the
communication or the discretion many want,” says Rachel Braun
Scherl, whose Saddlebrook, N.J., business,  Semprae Laboratories ,
bought Zestra’s assets for $2.5 million in early 2009. Scherl
and her business partner, Mary Wallace Jaensch, who together had
run a consumer products consulting firm for 15 years, set about
resuscitating Zestra, tapping $8.5 million in  venture capital .  After running 17 focus groups, they changed the packaging to
mint green and purple, introduced new sizes, and altered
Zestra’s earthy scent to a more neutral one. They also repriced
the product, described on its website as a blend of botanical
oils and extracts: Single-use three-packs are available at Wal-
Mart from $8 to $9; six-packs are available through Semprae’s
site for about $20, along with other price packages.  While a slew of female arousal products are sold in the U.S.,
only a handful are topical, hormone-free, and available over-
the-counter. LibiGel, a topical medication from  BioSante
Pharmaceutical (BPAX)  that contains testosterone, is in clinical
trials. If the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approves it,
LibiGel won’t be available until 2013, says Oppenheimer analyst
Chris Holterhoff in  New York , who follows biopharma and
specialty pharmaceutical companies. He notes that demand for
LibiGel could help define the size of the market for further
drugs to treat female sexual dysfunction. “Assuming a very low
percent of women get treated, that would imply sales of $150
million in the early years of the launch. Longer-term we could
conservatively estimate $500 million-plus in peak sales.”  TV STATIONS’ THUMBS DOWN  Since relaunching Zestra in September 2009, Scherl says the
product’s biggest stumbling block has been getting its ads on
TV. Only 24 of the 136 stations that responded to her
submissions approved them in full, according to Scherl. (Fifty-
nine stations denied them outright; 53 approved them with
significant restrictions). She says the Big Three networks’
decisions not to run her ads are representative of her struggle.
 ABC (DIS)  spokesperson Susan Sewell would not comment and  CBS
(CBS)  spokesperson Dana McClintock would not comment on the
record. NBC spokesperson Liz Fischer says the network has “no
issues with the product category” but “never received the
necessary substantiation we requested or did not receive a final
spot that was approved for air.” Shows have also passed on
running Zestra ads, including TMZ, the celebrity news show owned
by  Warner Bros. (TWX) . Scott Rowe, a  Warner Bros . spokesperson,
declined to give specifics, saying TMZ “[adheres] to broadcast
guidelines for advertiser content.”  Scherl believes the networks maintain a double standard for
products related to female sexuality. “I asked the standards-
and-practices folks at the networks and cable stations to
explain their concerns. I said: ‘You’re talking about four-hour
erections on “The  Super Bowl .” I don’t want my ads on during
“The Super Bowl.”’ I’m fine with standards, I just want them to
be equally applied.” Semprae edited its ads, removing references
to sex, sexuality, and arousal. In February 2011, about two
dozen national outlets, including  AMC (AMCX) , E! Entertainment,
and the Food Network, started airing one of the spots called
“The Secret.” Says Scherl: “As a result of the vagueness of the
message required to get clearance, it was not a terribly
effective commercial.”  Does Zestra deliver on its ads’ promise of sexual satisfaction?
A 2010 study of 200 women with histories of sexual difficulties
paid for by Semprae and published in “The Journal of Sex and
Marital Therapy” found mixed results. For two metrics, the women
reported significant improvement in desire and arousal, but not
significant benefit for sexual satisfaction. The researchers
also used a third metric, designed to measure five areas --
treatment satisfaction, sex-life satisfaction, self perception,
relationship satisfaction, and partner perception. Results
showed significant benefit for all but one -- “relationship
satisfaction.”  TESTING, TESTING  Do women have more orgasms when they use Zestra or not? Scherl
says they do, but her data are anecdotal, drawing on e-mails,
calls to the company’s 800-number, and feedback from sexual-
health experts. Scherl says the study included a population with
“many health issues, so we missed significance for orgasm by a
small degree.” She says another study of healthy women is in the
works for early 2012 to test for significance for orgasm. “We
don’t make claims for orgasm. We make claims for satisfaction
... we say Zestra improves arousal and desire and satisfaction
for 70 percent of women, which is demoed in our study. We say it
increases sensitivity to touch for deep, pleasurable
sensations.”  Today the 20-employee company’s strategy -- which limits Zestra
sales to its website, its call center, and some 1,800  Wal-Mart
stores  across the country -- is working. Scherl says that
because Wal-Mart requires sales of one package per week per
store, “we have to be selling about 2,000 units a week.” Online
sales are “growing dramatically,” she notes, tripling in the
past year. Scherl expects $10 million in revenue this year,
twice that of 2010.  By August, Semprae is scheduled to roll out a multimedia ad
campaign with a celebrity spokesperson. The idea is to use
social media to get potential customers to watch video vignettes
that prompt casual conversations about female sexual
satisfaction. “Better sex effortlessly -- that’s our headline,”
says Scherl, “Making sex fun, enjoying something you’re doing on
a weekly basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen A. Frenkel at
 kfrenkel@nyc.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  