-- 
Magazine Stands by Report Questioning Zhongpin Stores

-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 
2011-07-25T15:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/magazine-stands-by-report-questioning-zhongpin-stores-correct-.html
(Corrects location of Zhongpin’s investor relations
manager in seventh paragraph of story originally published July
22.)  The China Economic Review said it
stands by its July 18 report questioning the credibility of
China-based pork processor  Zhongpin Inc. (HOGS) , after researchers
found only four of 10 Shanghai stores they attempted to visit.  Zhongpin’s list of 1,312 retail outlets was “confusing and
incomplete,” with only 30 including a street number, according
to the e-mail yesterday from Deon Widjaja, director of Digital
Products at the magazine’s parent, SinoMedia Holdings Ltd. Six
Shanghai locations researchers tried to visit accompanied by
Zhongpin workers couldn’t be found, he wrote.  The Hong Kong-based magazine said on its website this week
that Zhongpin overstated figures such as hogs bought from farms
in  Henan province  and its number of retail stores. Zhongpin said
on July 19 that the report had “numerous incorrect facts,” and
showed a poor understanding of the industry.  “Our conclusion based upon the tour arranged by Zhongpin
is that the company has more outlets than was apparent in our
initial research, basically because many are very small, or are
in inaccessible or incongruous locations,” Widjaja wrote. “We
stand by the basic conclusions of the original report.”  Zhongpin is among Chinese companies listed abroad that have
faced questions about their credibility in recent months. Short
sellers said companies including  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  and  Longtop
Financial Technologies Ltd. (LFT)  were exaggerating operations. The
Review said it has no long or short position in Zhongpin.  Zhongpin shares fell 14 percent this week and 53 percent
this year in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Zhongpin rose 86
cents, or 9.8 percent, to $9.66 at 4 p.m. in  New York  yesterday.  Two calls to Sterling Song, Zhongpin’s investor-relations
manager, rang unanswered after normal business hours in Beijing,
where he’s based.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  