-- 
Airbnb Venture Funding Said to Value Travel-Rental Startup at $1.3 Billion

-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-07-25T18:44:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/airbnb-venture-funding-said-to-value-travel-rental-startup-at-1-3-billion.html
Airbnb Inc. , the website that lets
homeowners turn extra bedrooms into vacation rentals, raised
$112 million in a funding round led by venture capital firm
Andreessen Horowitz.  The investment values the San Francisco-based company at
$1.3 billion, said a person with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be named because the valuation wasn’t made public.
Russia’s Digital Sky Technologies and venture firm  General
Catalyst Partners  participated in the financing.  Founded in 2008 by Brian Chesky, Joe Gebbia and Nathan
Blecharczyk, Airbnb lets users rent out a couch, bedroom or full
house. The company, which makes money by charging a fee for each
transaction, lists properties in 16,701 cities in 186 countries,
according to its website. The  funding  will be used to bolster
Airbnb’s workforce and sign up more homes and apartments around
the world.  “It’s a very rapidly growing company that is competing in
a big market and appears to be the leader in the space,” said
Jeff Jordan, a partner at  Menlo Park , California-based
Andreessen Horowitz, who led the firm’s investment. “A big use
of the proceeds is to go global fast.”  The company has raised a total of $119.8 million. Airbnb
first received capital in 2009 from startup incubator Y
Combinator and later that year from  Sequoia Capital . Andreessen
Horowitz is contributing $60 million of the new round.  Airbnb spokesman Christopher Lukezic declined to comment on
the valuation.  The funding comes less than a month after vacation-rental
site HomeAway Inc. sold shares to the public. The Austin, Texas-
based company has jumped 53 percent since its initial public
offering, and is now valued at $3.3 billion on the Nasdaq Stock
Market.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen Horowitz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  