-- 
Alafco Forecasts Record Profit on Relinquishing Plane Orders

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-25T13:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/alafco-to-report-record-full-year-profit-chairman-says.html
Aviation Lease & Finance Co. said it
will post “record” fiscal-year profit after the Kuwait-based
company allowed other purchasers to pick up planes it had on
order at Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)   The 38 million-dinar ($139 million) gain from waiving the
rights to the aircraft will come on top of growth in operating
profit following a fleet expansion, Chairman Ahmad al-Zabin said
in a phone interview today from  Kuwait City , without specifying
figures.  Aviation Lease, also known as Alafco, provides Shariah-
compliant commercial-aircraft leasing agreements. It reported
net income of 10.8 million dinars in the year ended Sept. 30.
Al-Zabin has led Alafco since 2000, when it started operations
as a Kuwaiti registered company after eight years as a
subsidiary of state-owned Kuwait Airways Corp.  The gain includes 17 million dinars from waiving an
agreement with Airbus to buy six A350 XWBs, and 20 million
dinars from shifting a contract last November for eight Boeing
787s to Saudi Arabian Airlines, al-Zabin said.  Alafco has 36 aircraft on order this year from Toulouse,
France-based Airbus, including 30 A320neos and six A350 XWBs,
al-Zabin said. The company is on track to take delivery of the
first of 14 Boeing 787s in 2014, he said.  ‘Thirsty’ for Planes  The size of industry orders placed at the Paris air show in
June shows “demand is good, and gives an indication of how
people are thirsty for fuel-efficient and environmentally
friendly aircraft,” al-Zabin said. “It indicates that the
coming years to 2020 are good years.”  Alafco wants to settle a claim of $70 million against
privately held customer  Kuwait National Airlines Co. (KNA) , owner of
collapsed carrier Wataniya Airways, and “is still open to talks
with them so we can reach an amicable solution,” al-Zabin said.
“We didn’t close any doors with Wataniya or Kuwait National
Airlines and are still open to any suggestions.”  Wataniya Airways halted operations in March, two years
after starting flights. Kuwait National Airlines said on July 7
that it failed to reach an agreement with Alafco on the payment.  “There’s no change in our position since last month,
there’s been no developments,” Kuwait National Airlines
Chairman Abdulsalam al-Bahar said in a phone interview today.
“What we’ve announced to the general assembly meeting is that
the conditions requested, we simply, financially and legally,
can not meet. And Alafco knows that very well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  