-- 
Hamptons Scene: Itzhak Perlman, Gary Fuhrman, Barbara Goldsmith

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-07-25T15:10:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/hamptons-scene-itzhak-perlman-gary-fuhrman-morgan-stark-cornelia-foss.html
If you want to encourage your
children in their piano studies, hosting a concert of world-
class youth musicians in your backyard isn’t a bad idea.  It helps if you have a backyard like that of Gary Fuhrman,
chief executive officer and chairman of GF Capital Management &
Advisors LLC, and his wife, Dorian. It overlooks Hook Pond in
 East Hampton , New York, and features a tennis court, jungle gym
and plenty of lawn.  The Fuhrmans hosted the annual benefit for the  Perlman
Music Program , founded by violinist Itzhak Perlman and his wife,
Toby, to train highly talented musicians. The program operates a
Summer Music School for 11-to-18-year-olds in a camp setting on
Shelter Island.  “We just love the people involved,” said Dorian Fuhrman,
who is 8 1/2 months pregnant.  The concert Saturday night took place under a tent pitched
between the tennis court and the jungle gym. The Fuhrmans’ two
boys sat in the front row, wearing blue-striped dress shirts and
white pants. Almost 200 guests joined them, including: William Hoh of Soros Fund Management LLC and his wife,  Wandy Hoh , co-
founder of the children’s electronic books company  MeeGenius! ;
Andrew Nussbaum, a partner at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz,
and his wife, Darcy Miller, weddings editorial director at
 Martha Stewart  Living Omnimedia; broadcast journalist Lynn
Sherr;  art dealer Barbara Gladstone ; architect Annabelle
Selldorf; author and tireless advocate for imprisoned writers
Barbara Goldsmith; filmmaker Peter Rosen, who has a film on
violinist Jascha Heifetz coming out Oct. 22 in New York; and
painter Cornelia Foss.  ‘No Hierarchy’  The Perlman Music Program string orchestra played Bartok
and Brahms, with the students changing chairs during breaks
because they had no set places.  “There’s no hierarchy here, no room for showing off,”
said Itzhak Perlman during the cocktail hour. “What we
appreciate is that everybody does their best.”  Developing the musicians’ social skills is an important
part of the program. In addition to studying viola, violin,
piano, bass and cello, the students play capture the flag and
charades and make bonfires. There is no color war.  “They play this heartbreaking music and then they say,
’I’m gonna stick a marshmallow in your ear,’” said Sidney
Stark, the wife of the program’s president, Morgan Stark. “The
kids are a huge family. They don’t come that way, and within
weeks they become that way.”  Morgan Stark, who by day is chairman of the asset-
management business and head of macro investments at Cowen &
Co., is leading a $3 million capital campaign to upgrade the
Shelter Island campus. So far $1.9 million has been raised.  On Aug. 24, construction begins on a new building with
sound-proofed practice rooms, air conditioning and heat. The
idea is to use the campus for recitals and retreats beyond the
summer months. The benefit raised $100,000.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 