-- 
Anadarko Reports $544 Million Second-Quarter Profit After Oil Prices Climb

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-07-25T21:15:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/anadarko-reports-544-million-second-quarter-profit-after-oil-prices-climb.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the
second-largest U.S. independent oil and natural-gas producer by
market value, reported a second-quarter profit on record sales
of petroleum liquids amid higher crude prices.  Net income was $544 million, or $1.08 a share, The
Woodlands, Texas-based company said today in a statement. A year
earlier, Anadarko reported a net loss of $40 million, or 8 cents
a share, citing hedging contracts.  Excluding such items as asset impairments, profit was $1.14
a share, 19 cents more than the average of 28 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Anadarko hit the top end of its forecast
for sales volumes with the equivalent of 62 million barrels of
oil in the quarter. That included an increase of about 34,000
barrels a day in petroleum liquids, which includes crude.  The company owns a 25 percent stake in BP Plc’s Macondo
well, which exploded in the  Gulf of Mexico  in April 2010,
leading to a record U.S. offshore oil spill. Anadarko has
disputed BP’s claim that it should help pay the costs of the
spill.  Revenue in the second quarter rose 41 percent from a year
earlier to $3.68 billion. Oil futures in New York averaged
$102.34 a barrel in the second quarter, a 31 percent increase
from $78.05 a barrel a year earlier. Average gas prices rose
less than 3 cents to $4.378 per million British thermal units.  Jubilee Production  Anadarko is developing projects in areas such as the
onshore U.S., the Gulf of Mexico and  Africa  to boost production
in coming years. The company has seen increasing output this
year from the Jubilee project in which it’s a partner off the
coast of  Ghana . Gross production at Jubilee is about 80,000
barrels of oil a day, the company said today.  In  North America , Anadarko has reported higher production
in such formations as the Eagle Ford in  Texas  and the Marcellus
Shale in Pennsylvania.  Today’s earnings report was issued after the close of
regular trading on U.S. stock markets. Anadarko rose 42 cents to
$83 as of 5:09 p.m. in after-hours trading in New York.  Apache Corp. (APA)  is the largest U.S. independent oil and gas
producer by market value. Independent companies don’t own
refining, chemical or retail fuel businesses.  (Anadarko will hold an earnings conference call for
investors and analysts tomorrow at 10 a.m.  New York  time. To
listen, go to  http://www.anadarko.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  