-- 
Mandiri Seeks Bank-Stake Limits to Level Asean Playing Field

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-07-25T04:35:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/mandiri-seeks-bank-stake-limits-to-level-asean-playing-field.html
PT Bank Mandiri,  Indonesia ’s biggest
bank by assets, said it welcomes limits on commercial bank
stakes as it would help level the playing field with regional
rivals from markets that already cap ownership.  “We need to have a more reciprocal policy with other
countries,” Managing Director Pahala N. Mansury said in an
interview yesterday in Bali, Indonesia. “If other banks coming
from other countries can establish their presence here, why is
that we are not allowed” to do the same in their countries?  Bank Indonesia ’s plan to cap investor ownership in
commercial banks at less than 50 percent will probably be
enacted this year, Deputy Governor Muliaman Hadad said July 13.
Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s biggest economy, currently allows
foreign investors to hold stakes in banks up to 99 percent.  Mandiri is aiming to become one of  Southeast Asia ’s five
biggest banks in terms of market capitalization by 2014, a year
before the 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
plans to shed investment and trade restrictions. Of the top five
banks now, three are Singaporean and two are Malaysian.  Mandiri faces obstacles opening new branches or accepting
retail deposits in other Asean countries, Manusry said. The
company is hoping to capitalize on increased access,
particularly in Malaysia, before investment restrictions fall by
2015, he said.  ‘Long Way’  “Four years is a long way, so there is still an
opportunity for us,” Manusry said. “Obviously we are behind
for several years already compared to our Asean counterparts,
but better late than never.”  For banks in  Malaysia , collective foreign ownerhsip cannot
exceed 30 percent, said Wee Siang Ng, director and regional head
of ASEAN Financials at BNP Paribas Securities (Singapore) Pte.
Ltd. Within this, a single foreign corporation can hold a
maximum of 20 percent, and a foreign individual, 10 percent.  “For Singapore banks, there is no explicit cap on foreign
ownership,” Ng said. “Investors, however, have to get approval
from the regulator if they want to increase their stake beyond
three pre-designated thresholds.” These thresholds are at 5
percent, 12 percent and 20 percent, he said.  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY) , Malaysia’s biggest lender by assets,
holds a 97 percent stake in PT Bank Internasional Indonesia,
while Kuala Lumpur-based  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  owns a 96.92
percent stake in PT Bank Cimb Niaga. Singapore’s biggest banks
include Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.,  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB) 
and  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)   Malaysia Liberalization  Malaysia may allow Southeast Asian banks to open more
branches as it liberalizes its finance industry, central bank
Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said July 18. It currently restricts
the number of branches licensed foreign lenders can open,
particularly in urban areas.  Bank Indonesia  oversees 121 foreign and local commercial
banks in the country, with total assets of 3,069.1 trillion
rupiah ($360 billion). The central bank is seeking to increase
efficiency and reduce risk among the nation’s lenders.  Since March, banks have been required to set aside 5
percent of their total foreign exchange holdings as reserves,
and the foreign currency reserve requirement was raised to 8
percent from 5 percent in June. Banks with assets of at least 10
trillion rupiah are required to publish their prime lending
rates.  Mandiri’s loan growth may reach 27 percent, said Mansury,
also the company’s chief financial officer. Net income for all
of 2011 is set to exceed 20 percent on domestic growth, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bali at
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  