-- 
Amplats Sees Costs Exceeding Previous Forecasts, Above Average Metal Price

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-07-25T15:59:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/anglo-american-platinum-says-first-half-headline-earnings-increased-by-26-.html
Anglo American Platinum Ltd., source
of about 40 percent of world output of the metal, expects costs
to exceed its forecasts after energy charges rose and deaths at
its mines doubled in the first half.  Costs may increase by as much as 7.4 percent to 12,600 rand
($1,860) an equivalent refined platinum ounce this year from
11,730 rand in 2010, the unit of  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  said in a
statement today. In February, the company said costs would be
similar to 2010. Platinum has averaged $1,785 an ounce in  London 
this year.  Chief Executive Officer Neville Nicolau is completing a
three-year plan to curb costs, cut fatalities and meet output
targets. He began the program in 2009 to stem rising debt after
platinum prices tumbled the previous year, and to improve
competitiveness against rivals Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. and
Lonmin Plc.  “Productivity improvements will be essential if cash costs
are to fall back in line with financial year 2011 guidance,”
Dominic O’Kane at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London said in a note.  The stock declined 0.2 percent to 600 rand by the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg, giving a drop of 14 percent this year.  Amplats, as the Johannesburg-based company is known, had
“a very challenging start to the 2011 financial year,” it
said. While the second half should be “stronger,” there’s
“still a lot of work to be done,” the producer said.  Productivity Drops  First-half costs climbed 13 percent from a year earlier as
gains in electricity, diesel, explosives, steel and wages
“materially” exceeded consumer price inflation, it said. The
 National Union of Mineworkers , on strike at De Beers diamond
mines and Anglo American coal operations, this month threatened
to halt work at Amplats to secure above-inflation pay increases.  Productivity fell 18 percent per employee in the first
half, partly because of public holidays, Amplats said.  The company maintained its target of refining and selling
2.6 million ounces for the year, even after eight deaths in the
first half led to mine stoppages and curbed a planned surge in
output. Production in the half rose 17 percent to 1.17 million
ounces at Amplats, which also mines palladium and rhodium.  The government imposed 33 safety stoppages in the first
half, equaling about 12.5 days of production, or about 67,000
ounces, at Amplats’ own operations, Pieter Louw, head of mining,
told investors in Johannesburg today.  Profit Rises  First-half earnings excluding one-time items rose 20
percent to 12.32 rand a share from 10.24 rand as platinum prices
extended their recovery by a further 12 percent following a 2008
slump.  Demand will grow about 4 percent a year and supply
“slightly less than that,” Amplats said in its statement.
“This will result in an increasing market deficit, particularly
in palladium and platinum markets.”  The current dollar price of platinum is “understated” and
should be closer to $2,000 an ounce, Nicolau said in an
interview in Johannesburg today. The market has overestimated
the effect of  Japan ’s earthquake on demand and hasn’t factored
in all supply constraints, he said, forecasting platinum will
trade at an average of at least $1,800 an ounce in the second
half of the year.  Current rand prices are “inadequate to incentivize
sustainable investment to secure future supply,” Amplats said.  Amplats remains in talks with Zimbabwe, which in March said
foreign companies must cede or sell 51 percent of their
operations to locals. The government hasn’t yet accepted or
rejected a plan from the company on responding to the policy,
Nicolau said.  The government has rejected 175 proposals from companies on
adressing the ownership issue, Indigenization Minister Saviour
Kasukwere said July 20. Amplats started the Unki mine in
 Zimbabwe  this year.  Anglo American owns about 79 percent of Amplats, which is
the world’s largest supplier of the precious metal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  