-- 
ANZ Bank Debt Hiring Spree Boosts Loan Market Share in Asia

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-07-25T02:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/anz-bank-debt-hiring-spree-boosts-loan-market-share-in-asia-pacific-region.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  boosted its  Asia  loan market share and rose to the
joint No. 1 spot in the Philippines after more than quadrupling
its debt team in the region.  Australia’s third-largest lender increased its debt capital
markets staff in the Asia-Pacific region to more than 80 from
less than 20 three years ago, according to Reuben Tucker, global
head of bond origination. Will Clay, vice-chairman of debt
capital markets, and Cecily Fan, head of Asia primary loan
sales, who both started July 4 in Hong Kong, are among recent
hires. Carl Roberts, Asia head of loan syndications,
specialized lending, begins next month in Singapore.  “There was an acknowledgment that to service our clients
this was an absolutely critical part of the business we needed
to build,” Tucker said in a phone interview from  Hong Kong .
“We’re looking to bring our global customers to the Asian
capital markets and take our Asia-Pacific clients to a global
investor base.”  ANZ Bank, under Chief Executive Officer  Mike Smith , hopes
to grab a bigger share of a syndicated loans market in the Asia-
Pacific region outside of  Japan  that grew 75 percent to $383.5
billion last year and a market for  U.S. dollar , euro or yen
bonds that totaled $145.2 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Melbourne-based bank is seeking to expand all
parts of its business in the region as competition intensifies
at home and moved global head of capital markets, Cathryn Carver, to Hong Kong from Sydney in September.  Asian Revenue  Total employees in the Asia-Pacific region rose to 14,513
as at March 31 from 10,200 a year earlier,  Kevin Foley , a
Sydney-based spokesman for the bank, said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The region accounted for 15 percent of
revenue in the first half to March, Foley said. ANZ Bank is
forecasting 20 percent of revenue from the Asia-Pacific in the
full year ending Sept. 30, 2012, and between 25 percent to 30
percent in 2017, he said.  ANZ Bank is the equal top arranger of loans in the
Philippines this year, with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,
Malayan Banking Bhd., Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  all with a 13.7 percent market share.  It is the No. 2 arranger of Asia-Pacific loans outside of
Japan, behind  State Bank  of India, holding the spot as its
market share grew to 6 percent this year from 4.9 percent in
2010, Bloomberg data show. Its share of U.S. dollar, euro or yen
bonds in the region outside of Japan rose to 1.8 percent this
year from 0.9 percent, putting it two spots higher in 18th
place.  In the Singapore dollar bond market, ANZ Bank is ranked No.
4, up from fifth in 2010, the data show.  Growing Business  The 80 members of the debt capital markets team are split
mainly between Hong Kong and  Singapore  and ANZ Bank will add
more people as its business grows, Tucker said.  “We’re going to be adding more local-currency capabilities
over the next few years and the Indonesian rupiah is a market
we’re looking closely at,” Tucker said.  The bank is “not looking to be all things to all people”
and will maintain a strong focus on natural resources, utilities
and infrastructure, and food and agriculture, he said.  “That’s a logical extension of the bank’s traditional
competencies,” Tucker said. “There’s a strong link between
what Australia has and what Asia needs.”  Other recent hires include London-based Fergus Elder as
head of global loans and capital markets for  Europe , and another
banker whose name cannot yet be made public who will drive the
loans business in  Taiwan  from Sept. 1, according to John Corrin,
global head of loan syndications.  “We’ve got some 18 branches in Taiwan, 28 in Indonesia and
eight in Vietnam,” Corrin said in a phone interview from Hong
Kong. “We rely heavily on our colleagues in those branch
networks to identify loans and bonds opportunities for us.”  Having Elder based in  London  will allow ANZ Bank to better
service its clients such as BHP Billiton Ltd., which conduct
their financing operations from the city, Corrin said. Another
two people are likely to be hired to assist him, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  