-- 
Apple, Coke Defy Economy to Lead Earnings Ahead of Estimates

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   J o s h u a   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-07-25T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/apple-coke-defy-economy-to-lead-earnings.html
U.S. second-quarter corporate
earnings are outstripping estimates as companies from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
to  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  boost sales with new products and benefit from
a weaker dollar, surprising analysts who predicted a bigger drag
from the economy.  Earnings per share jumped 19 percent from a year earlier
for the 122 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that
reported second-quarter results as of July 22, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That beat the 13 percent average growth
estimate that analysts held at the start of the month, and about
82 percent of the companies reporting have exceeded forecasts.  The earnings outlook had been tamped down by analysts
because of the earthquake that cut supply lines in Japan, a
looming debt crisis in Europe, unrest in the  Middle East  and
weaker U.S. economic indicators, said  Jonathan Golub , UBS AG’s
chief U.S. market strategist in  New York .  “It reflects how pessimistic everyone is after the ‘08
crisis,” said Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells
Capital Management in Minneapolis. “ Wall Street  estimates just
can’t catch up to Main Street reality because we can’t believe
it’s actually that good.”  Analysts in the past week began to raise projections for
the second quarter after companies started reporting better-
than-anticipated results. The average earnings-per-share growth
estimate for the quarter reached 17 percent at the end of last
week, up from 13 percent a week earlier, according to Bloomberg
data. Revenue is projected to have risen about 10 percent.  ‘Bright Light’  Companies have kept costs low, increased use of existing
factory capacity and tapped into faster-growing markets abroad,
Golub said in an interview. Across industries, companies are
coaxing sales gains out of consumers who look weak on paper, he
said.  U.S. unemployment rose to 9.2 percent in June, the highest
level since the end of last year, and the University of
Michigan’s consumer confidence index dropped to 63.8 points in
July, a two-year low.  Cupertino, California-based Apple reported on July 19 net
income of $7.79 a share, beating analysts’ forecasts by $1.92 on
record sales of iPhones and iPads. Coca-Cola, the world’s
largest soft-drink maker, said the same day that its profit rose
18 percent, more than projections. Earnings were boosted by a 47
percent jump in sales, helped by an acquisition last year that
gave the Atlanta-based company control of 90 percent of its
North America beverage distribution.  “The companies are doing an extraordinary job of managing
themselves,” Golub said. “This is a bright light in the
distance of a murky macro environment.”  Tapering Growth  The S&P 500, which rose 5.4 percent in the first quarter,
fell 0.39 percent in the second quarter. The best performing
stocks in the quarter include  National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM) ,
 Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  The worst performers include
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  and  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR)   Earnings growth may taper in the second half, when
companies have to spend more to expand factories and hire
workers, said Gina Martin Adams, an equity strategist in New
York with Wells Fargo & Co. Companies will also meet resistance
among consumers when they begin to seek price increases to make
up for higher material costs, such as energy and aluminum.  Of the companies in the S&P 500 that have reported, 20 of
them, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,
reported profit below analysts’ average estimate. The misses
were specific to the companies, rather than to the broader
industries, Golub said.  A drop in fees from trading debt, currencies and
commodities caused Goldman to report earnings last week that
fell 45 cents a share short of the $2.30 average estimate. The
New York-based company said it will eliminate about 1,000 jobs.  Caterpillar Misses  Caterpillar reported on July 22 profit excluding some costs
of $1.72 a share, trailing the $1.75 average of analysts’
estimates. The Peoria, Illinois-based company’s shares fell the
most in about 15 months that day.  “The quarter was very messy, with a low  tax rate , losses
on interest-rate swaps, and various impacts from” Caterpillar’s
acquisition of Bucyrus International Inc., said  Stephen Volkmann , an analyst with Jeffries & Co. in New York.  Caterpillar, betting demand for construction equipment will
improve, increased its guidance for the year, excluding the
acquisition, by 50 cents to a range of $6.75 to $7.25.  Weak Dollar  A weak dollar is fueling some of the positive earnings
reports.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  posted a 12
percent sales gain to $26.7 billion in the quarter, topping
analysts’ forecast of $25.4 billion of revenue. The gain would
have been 5 percent after stripping out the currency effect.  “What the consensus missed was how positive an impact on
reported revenues the overall weakness in the dollar would
have,” said Douglas Cliggott, U.S. equity strategist in Boston
for Credit Suisse Securities USA LLC.  The euro gained 19 percent on the dollar in the 12 months
ended June 30.  Sales in the S&P 500 will rise to $1,041.45 a share this
year, the highest ever, analyst estimates show. Earnings for the
full year are forecast to gain 18 percent to $99.60 a share.
Profits from all countries in Europe represent about $17.92 of
that amount, data from Bank of America Corp. and Bloomberg show.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant chain,
posted earnings per share of $1.35, outpacing an estimate of
$1.28 from 22 analysts, on the back of increased sales from
McCafe coffee and frozen drinks.  Higher Prices  “As we move through the year, we will continue to consider
future price increases, balancing our desire to maintain growth
and guest counts in market share amidst rising input costs,”
Peter Bensen, McDonald’s chief financial officer, said in a
conference call with analysts on July 22.  Consumer are likely to balk at the higher prices companies
will need to maintain profit margins, said Martin Adams of Wells
Fargo. That may slow earnings growth in the third and fourth
quarters, she said.  “These companies will start to test the market to try to
pass on price increases,” she said. “There will probably be
pushback from ultimate consumers and that’s going to cause some
disruption to some of these earnings trends we’ve been
accustomed to.”  Concern about U.S. economic growth, a debate on the U.S.
debt ceiling and a hot spell flogging most of the country
haven’t damped investor enthusiasm over company earnings,
 Keith Wirtz , chief investment officer for Fifth Third Asset
Management in Cincinnati. The resilience of company earnings
drive gains in the  S&P 500 , said Wirtz, who helps manage about
$16.7 billion.  “It’s going to be a good earnings season,” Wirtz said.
“It’s going to be a continuation of six or seven quarters of
above average earnings results and that’s potentially going to
provide a floor for the stock market for the rest of the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Armstrong in Detroit at 
 jarmstrong39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  