-- 
Arrowsight Reinforces Hygiene, from Meatpacking to Fast Food

-- B y   J a n e   A p p l e g a t e
-- 
2011-08-04T17:29:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/arrowsight-reinforces-hygiene-from-meatpacking-to-fast-food.html
Mike Siemens, Cargill’s head of animal
welfare husbandry, encourages the 19,000 employees working
double shifts in the company’s 10 North American beef processing
plants to compete against each other. But instead of rewarding
workers for the fastest production, Siemens gives pizza parties
and gift certificates to those who properly sterilize their
butchering knives and treat cattle humanely.  Cargill, the second-largest beef producer in the U.S.’s $174
billion, so-called protein processing industry, is one of the
biggest clients for  Arrowsight , a 50-employee Mt. Kisco, N.Y.,
company. Arrowsight sells remote video-monitoring and -auditing
systems to keep an eye on workers in meatpacking plants, health-
care facilities, and fast food restaurants -- industries in
which hygiene and  food safety  are critical. “It’s the next tool
in the tool box,” says Cargill’s Siemens, who first installed
Arrowsight systems in 2008. “Everyone is taking more pride in
their work. Plus, now we can compare employees across the board,
not just in one plant.”  Food safety is an increasingly important concern for consumers
and businesses. Every year inspectors stationed at meat
processing plants by the U.S. Dept. of Agriculture’s Food Safety
and Inspection Service prompt the recall of millions of pounds
of beef, pork, and other protein products. Despite the recalls
and regulations, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control estimates
that about 48 million Americans get sick annually, with 128,000
hospitalized and 3,000 killed by food-borne illnesses.  Now that  Germany ’s May outbreak of E. coli has been traced to
tainted bean sprouts that sickened 2,800 people and killed 26,
Chief Executive Officer Adam Aronson says, demand for
Arrowsight’s systems and services is increasing. First quarter
2011 revenue rose more than 100 percent over the first quarter
of 2010, according to Aronson, who says Arrowsight had close to
$3 million in revenue in 2010. He expects revenue to exceed $3
million in 2011, noting that the company has raised $65 million
from private-equity firms.  NO DIRECT COMPETITORS  Joseph Sarachek, managing partner of Triax Capital Advisors, a
Manhattan firm that brokers deals and turns around midsize
companies in the meat and poultry industry, says he’s not aware
of any company that competes directly with Arrowsight. In
addition to setting up video systems, Arrowsight staffers
monitor clients’ facilities 24 hours a day, says founder
Aronson. He says a small restaurant might pay $400 a month for
Arrowsight’s services while a large protein processing plant
could pay about $25,000 a month. The company has installed about
250 systems to date.  Dr. Temple Grandin, a professor at  Colorado State University  who
helped develop the protocol and animal-handling scoring system
used by Arrowsight, says cameras have been installed in meat
processing plants since the 1980s. She notes that having an
outside firm monitor employees makes sense. “When the back is
turned, people don’t always do the right thing,” says Grandin,
who is widely credited with encouraging protein processors to
treat animals more humanely prior to slaughter. “When no one is
looking, there is high use of electric prods and low use of the
knife sterilizer.”  Aronson, a former currency trader and hedge fund manager, didn’t
plan to join the meat industry. He left  Wall Street  in 1997 to
start a company called Parent Watch, which provided online
video-monitoring services for parents who wanted to observe
their kids remotely in day care centers. Fueled with millions in
 venture capital  during the dot-com boom, Aronson says Parent
Watch grew to 140 employees before faltering in 2000. Aronson
downsized the company to 20 employees, keeping mostly software
engineers.  FINDING THE BULL’S EYE  From 2002 to 2007, Aronson and his team grappled with how to
exploit the remote video-auditing systems. While engineers and
software developers perfected and patented the technology, he
hired a team of consultants to help him figure out which
industries to pitch. After studying 30 industries, they
determined that protein processing was ideal because it was huge
and relied on manual labor to process an extremely perishable,
high-risk product. The industry is also risk-adverse and
understandably concerned about public health and safety, notes
Aronson.  Dr. Michael Doyle, director of the Center for Food Safety at the
 University of Georgia , says he sees the potential for remote
video auditing to someday replace USDA’s 8,000 inspectors. “This
[technology] could eliminate inspectors and possibly get better
results,” says Doyle. He says that because USDA inspectors are
in contact with every carcass, they may transmit bacteria from
animal to animal. For his part, Aronson -- who testified before
Congress as an industry expert about the importance of
monitoring hygiene in protein processing plants after the
nation’s largest beef recall in 2008 -- doesn’t expect cameras
in plants to replace inspectors.  Beyond hospitals and quick-service restaurants, Aronson is
searching for another big industry sector to tackle. Aronson
says helping to combat so-called agro-terrorism is next on his
list. “Now we are helping food manufacturers secure their
highest risk storage areas ... anywhere where a small amount of
contamination could create a dangerous situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Jane Applegate at
 jane@theapplegategroup.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  