-- 
Arsenal’s Wenger Wants Crackdown on Illegal Approaches to Players: Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-25T09:43:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/arsenal-s-wenger-wants-crackdown-on-illegal-approaches-to-players-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Wenger’s Call  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  wants soccer chiefs to clamp
down on illegal approaches to players as he struggles to keep
midfielder Samir Nasri at his club,  the Sun  reported.  Wenger is “furious” with Manchester City coach  Roberto Mancini  after he publicly said he’d like to sign Nasri, the
newspaper added.  Striker Shortage  Birmingham manager  Chris Hughton  is stepping up efforts to
recruit Newcastle’s Nile Ranger as he has a shortage of
strikers, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Cameron Jerome, Marlon King and Nikola Zigic will all be
out at the start of the season, the Mirror said.  Smith on the Move?  Newcastle forward Alan Smith may try to revive his career
by switching to U.S. team Orlando City,  the Sun  reported.  The 30-year-old spoke about the move with Orlando coach
Adrian Heath before the 1-0 defeat to the American team two days
ago, the newspaper added.  Warnock ‘Gagged’  Neil Warnock’s future as Queens Park Rangers manager is in
doubt after he was “gagged” by main shareholders Bernie Ecclestone and Flavio Briatore,  the Sun  reported.  Warnock criticized the club’s lack of spending on new
players since winning promotion to the Premier League at the end
of last season, the newspaper added.  Neymar Sought  Russian team Anzhi Makhachkala may compete with Chelsea and
Real Madrid to sign striker Neymar from Santos,  the Independent 
reported.  The team signed  Roberto Carlos  last year, and the 38-year-
old said he’s trying to persuade Neymar to join him at Anzhi,
the newspaper added.  Blackburn Target  Blackburn is interested in Partizan Belgrade midfielder
Radoslav Petrovic, according to the  Daily Mail .  The 6-foot-4 (1.93-meter) Serb was due to join Dutch club
Vitesse Arnhem but the deal fell through,  the Mail  added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 