-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Surges to Record on Debt Impasse

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-07-25T22:14:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-surges-to-record-on-debt-impasse.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Gold Surges to Record on Haven Demand Amid U.S. Debt Deadlock  Gold futures climbed to a record
$1,624.30 an ounce as U.S. lawmakers failed to reach an
agreement on raising the federal debt limit, boosting demand f
the metal as a haven investment.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  DuPont, Bunge Said to Seek Sale of Soy Products Joint Venture  DuPont Co. and Bunge Ltd. are seeking to sell Solae LLC,
their joint venture that makes soy products used in foods such
as cereal bars, infant formula and milk, said three people with
knowledge of the matter.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Declines on Concern U.S. Default May Damp Growth Outlook  Copper fell for the third time in four sessions amid
intensifying concern that the U.S. will default, after lawmakers
failed to agree on raising the debt ceiling, damping growth
prospects.  MINING:  Mine Strike Contagion Afflicts BHP, Anglo American, Xstrata (1)  Mine workers across three continents are striking over pay,
disrupting production as near-record prices for coal, copper and
gold boost profit at BHP Billiton Ltd., Xstrata Plc and Anglo
American Plc.  Sterlite to Spend $4.5 Billion on  Power Plants , Smelter Capacity  Sterlite Industries ( India ) Ltd., the nation’s largest
copper producer, plans to spend as much as 200 billion rupees
($4.5 billion) in three years to build power plants and expand
aluminum capacity at its subsidiaries.  PRECIOUS METALS:  South Africa Gold-Mining Unions Declare Deadlock, Chamber Says  South African unions involved in wage negotiations with
gold miners declared a deadlock following talks that saw
companies increase their offers on pay, the country’s Chamber of
Mines said today.  AGRICULTURE:  U.S. Corn, Soybean Conditions Worsen in Heat, USDA Says (1)  The condition of the U.S. corn and soybean crops worsened
last week as hot, dry Midwest weather increased stress on
developing plants, the Department of Agriculture said.  Corn, Soybeans Drop Most in Three Weeks on Beneficial Weather  Corn and soybean futures slumped the most in three weeks on
speculation that rain and cooler weather will bolster crop
development in the U.S., the world’s biggest producer.  Wheat Falls as Russian Output May Cut Demand for U.S. Exports  Wheat futures fell for the second time in three sessions on
renewed concern that rising output from  Russia  will erode demand
for supplies from the U.S., the world’s largest exporter.  Cattle Prices Drop on Rising U.S. Feedlot Supplies; Hogs Steady  Cattle futures dropped to a two-week low after a government
report showed U.S. feedlots unexpectedly increased purchases of
young animals last month, signaling rising supplies of beef.
Hogs were little changed.  Sugar Drops on India Export Plan; Cocoa Falls; Coffee Advances  Sugar declined the most in more than a week on speculation
that increased exports from India, the world’s second-biggest
producer, will ease global supply concerns. Cocoa also declined,
while coffee advanced.  SHIPPING:  Commodity-Shipping Costs Slide for 12th Day on Ore-Carrier Glut  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity-transportation
costs, slid for a 12th day in  London  because of a glut of iron-
ore carriers competing to transport the ingredient used to make
steel.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Stocks Decline as Lawmakers Wrangle Over Rival Debt Plans  U.S. stocks declined as Republicans and Democrats wrangled
over separate plans to raise the federal debt limit,
intensifying concern that lawmakers will fail to reach a
compromise and cause a government default.  OTHER MARKETS:  Franc Reaches Record Versus Dollar on Debt Ceiling; Yen Rallies  Switzerland ’s franc strengthened to a record against the
dollar on demand for the safest assets as U.S. lawmakers failed
to agree on raising the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and
 Greece ’s credit rating was cut.  U.K. Currency Trading Reaches $2 Trillion a Day as Euro Gains  Foreign Exchange trading in the  United Kingdom  rose to a
record $2.19 trillion a day in April, an increase of 23 percent
from October, as the euro strengthened for a fifth month against
the dollar.  Reid, Boehner Offering Competing Plans to Raise Debt Ceiling (1)  House Speaker  John Boehner  and Senate Majority Leader  Harry
Reid  are offering competing plans for Congress to lift the
U.S.’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and avert default before an
Aug. 2 deadline.  Emerging-Market Stocks Fall on U.S. Debt Talks; China Tumbles  Emerging-market stocks declined, with the benchmark index
falling for the first time in a week, as a stalemate over
raising the U.S. debt limit raised concerns of a default that
could threaten the global recovery.  SPORTS:  England Defeats India by 196 Runs in First Cricket Test (1)  England defeated India by 196 runs in the first cricket
Test at Lord’s in London as the hosts try to take the sport’s
top ranking.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 