-- 
Foreclosure-Deal Releases Draw State Resistance Amid Probes

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-07-26T21:07:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/massachusetts-to-spurn-any-foreclosure-accord-with-some-liability-releases.html
Three states conducting their own
probes of residential mortgage practices are resisting broad
liability releases sought by banks to settle a nationwide
foreclosure investigation.  The banks, in settlement talks with state and federal
officials, are seeking releases that would protect them from
future legal liabilities.  Massachusetts  Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said yesterday she won’t endorse a deal that includes
certain releases.  New York  and  Delaware  have raised similar
concerns over terms of a possible deal.  All three states are conducting investigations tied to
mortgage operations of banks. Delaware and Massachusetts
officials say a settlement shouldn’t release banks from some
claims, including those related to bundling mortgages into
securities, while the inquiries continue.  “We’re not prepared to do a broad liability release for
either securitization issues or for MERS until we’ve completed
that piece of investigation,” Coakley said in a telephone
interview yesterday. Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems
Inc., or MERS, is a national mortgage database used by banks.  State and federal officials are negotiating a settlement
with the five largest mortgage servicers, including  Bank of
America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , over their servicing and
foreclosure practices.  Attorneys general  from all 50 states
began investigating the practices last year.  Banks’ Goal  The banks want releases that go beyond servicing to include
lending and securitization of loans, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesmen for Bank of America, and
 Thomas Kelly  of JPMorgan declined to comment about the issue
last week. They didn’t respond today to e-mails seeking comment.  New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman’s office
said in a statement last week that he “remains concerned by any
settlement agreement that would preclude state attorneys general
from conducting comprehensive investigations of the mortgage
crisis.”  Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  said in an interview
last week that he had “strong reservations” about releasing
claims other than for servicing of mortgages because he is
investigating related issues, including securitization.  “We have an investigation going on,” Biden said. “It
would hinder our ability to do that, so that’s why I have real
reservations about anything beyond releases as it relates to
servicing.”  Delaware Probe  Delaware is also investigating MERS, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  MERS was created by the mortgage finance industry and
tracks servicing and ownership interests in  mortgage loans .
Coakley said she is investigating whether MERS complies with
Massachusetts law. At issue is the integrity of real-estate
transfers, she said.  In proposed settlement terms sent to the banks in March,
state and federal officials said “issues relating to the use
and performance of MERS are reserved for further discussion.”  Eric Tabor, chief of staff for Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , declined to comment about negotiations over MERS. Miller
is leading negotiations for the states.  Scope of Liability  States besides New York, Delaware and Massachusetts have
concerns about the scope of the liability releases in any
settlement with mortgage servicers, Coakley said. She declined
to name the states. Banks are looking for the broadest releases
possible in any settlement, Coakley said, and the issue is
“under intense discussion.”  Merscorp Inc., which owns MERS, will cooperate with the
investigations by Massachusetts and Delaware, Janis Smith, vice
president of corporate communications, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The use of MERS has been litigated in Massachusetts
courts, and judges have upheld the legality of the MERS business
model in the commonwealth,” Smith said.  Coakley said she disagreed with that view.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  