-- 
Aussie Joining Reserve Currencies as Central Bankers Seek Commodity Havens

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-07-25T20:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/aussie-joining-reserve-currencies-as-central-bankers-seek-commodity-havens.html
Commodities are losing their
influence over currencies of nations that depend on raw
materials exports as traders seek havens from the deficit and
debt turmoil roiling the European Union, U.S. and  Japan .  As the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return index of 24
commodities fell 8.45 percent since April, the Canadian,
Australian and New Zealand dollars and Norwegian krone gained an
average of about 1 percent, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes show. When commodities slumped 11.6 percent in the same
period a year ago, the currencies fell 2.4 percent on average.  Alternatives to the euro, dollar and yen are attracting
traders as bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal grow, U.S.
leaders put the nation’s AAA credit rating at risk and Japan
struggles to recover from its biggest earthquake on record. The
share of global currency reserves in a category that includes
 Canada  and  Australia  dollars now exceeds that held in pounds and
yen, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “The desire for diversification of reserves out of U.S.
dollars and euros is part of the reason for the performance of
the commodity currencies,” Steven Englander, head of Group of
10 foreign-exchange strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said
in an interview last week. “There is a disproportionate
willingness or desire to buy some of the commodity currencies
now, likely because there is so much concern about the U.S. and
the euro zone as well as Japan.”  Declining Correlation  Movements in the so-called Aussie and New Zealand dollars
are declining relative to commodity prices.  The correlation between  New Zealand ’s currency, known as
the kiwi for the flightless bird on the nation’s dollar coin,
and the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB index of 19 raw materials
has fallen to 0.346 from a peak of 0.626 in March 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s 0.508 for
Australia, compared with a record 0.718 in October 2009, the
data show. A value of 1 would mean they move in lock step.  Canada’s dollar and  Norway ’s krone have inverse
relationships with the index, meaning they tend to move in the
opposite direction of commodities.  Australia’s currency fell about 0.1 percent to $1.0845 as
of 3:57 p.m. in New York after gaining 1.86 percent last week.
New Zealand’s dollar was little changed at 86.46 U.S. cents,
while Canada’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to 94.58 cents per U.S.
dollar. The krone traded at 5.4186 per U.S. dollar from 5.4144
in New York on July 22.  Rising Share  The latest data from the IMF show the greenback accounted
for 60.7 percent of global currency reserves in the first
quarter, down from 61.8 percent a year earlier and 72.7 percent
a decade ago. The share for the 17-nation euro fell to 26.6
percent from 27.2 percent and the peak of 27.9 percent in 2009.  A category the IMF calls “other currencies” that
strategists say includes the Australian, New Zealand and
Canadian dollars soared to 4.7 percent from 3.6 percent. The IMF
calculates the reserve  allocation  share based on data from
central banks.  China , the world’s largest reserve holder, doesn’t give
breakdowns. China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange,
which manages the country’s $3.2 trillion of foreign currencies,
said July 20 that it will continue to diversify.  “Asian central banks are very keen to buy alternative
currencies, and the Australian and Canadian dollars have reached
a point now where they are major, big-hitting currency pairs,”
Neil Jones, head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London , said in an interview last week.
“The dollar is slowly but surely losing its status as the
world’s reserve currency.”  Buying Canada  Statistics Canada in Ottawa said last week that net
securities purchases by investors outside the country totaled
C$15.4 billion ($16.1 billion) in May, the most in a year. Net
inflows into the so-called loonie, named for the aquatic bird on
the nation’s dollar coin, were higher last week than the past
year’s average, according to Bank of New York Mellon, the
world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in
assets under administration.  The amount of capital entering fixed-income markets of
Canada and Australia is above average, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, based on an analysis of EPFR Global data.
Australia was second behind Norway in the first week of July.  Investors may be turning to Australia and New Zealand’s
currencies to profit from their links with China, according to
Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s largest currency trader. China’s
economy grew 9.5 percent last quarter from a year earlier and
accounts for 25 percent of Australia’s exports,  Reserve Bank  of
Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a speech in New York on
April 13.  Asia ‘Faith’  Traders “still have faith in the Asia-growth story
generally speaking,”  Henrik Gullberg , a London-based currency
strategist at Deutsche Bank, said in an interview last week.
“They have faith in emerging markets being robust enough to
withstand all the potential weakness and the uncertainty that we
are seeing in the major economies.”  Raw materials  account for about 60 percent of Australia’s
exports and 50 percent of Canada’s international revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Norway is the world’s
seventh-largest oil exporter. Overseas sales of milk products,
wool and lumber account for about 30 percent of New Zealand’s
economy.  Commodity prices have declined since April as economists
trim forecasts for global growth. The International Monetary
Fund said last month it expects developed economies to expand
2.2 percent this year, down from 2.4 percent in April.  Crude Down  Crude for September delivery fell to $99.87 a barrel July
22 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  from $113.93 at the end
of April.  While demand is growing for commodity currencies, they each
account for less than 8 percent of daily trading in global
foreign-exchange markets, according to the Bank for
International Settlements’ most recent Triennial survey
published in April 2010. The dollar is No. 1 at 84.9 percent,
followed by the euro at 39.1 percent.  The dollar’s dominance is unlikely to change even if the
U.S. loses its AAA rating, according to John Taylor, whose firm
manages $8 billion, including the world’s largest hedge fund
focused on currencies.  “Even if the U.S. has a single A, it still will be the
currency that everybody is pegged off of,” Taylor said in an
interview last week.  Broad Depreciation  The currencies of the U.S., EU and Japan depreciated the
last six months, led by the dollar’s 6.47 percent slide.  Federal Reserve efforts to flood the financial system by
purchasing $600 billion of Treasuries weakened the dollar. Now,
lawmakers risk a default by failing to come to an agreement with
President Barack Obama on how to boost the U.S.’s $14.3 trillion
debt limit.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service said
they may lower the nation’s credit rating if they see any deal
fall short of real fiscal reform or if the U.S. misses a debt
payment.  “The dollar is losing its ability to rally when equity
markets fall,” said John Normand, the London-based global head
of foreign-exchange strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “These
foreign-exchange market patterns suggest that most investors
already view the U.S. as less than a AAA sovereign credit.”  In  Europe , officials agreed on July 21 to provide Greece
with 159 billion euros ($228.3 billion) of new aid with lower
 interest rates  and longer repayment times. Leaders declined to
increase a broader 440 billion euro fund that would buy bonds of
debt-laden nations, prompting economists from Citigroup Inc. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to question whether it’s big enough to
insulate Spain and Italy from contagion.  Greece ’s sovereign credit rating was cut three steps today
by Moody’s Investors Service, which said the financing package
for the debt-laden nation implies “substantial economic
losses” for private creditors.  Rates Unchanged  Bank of Japan policy makers kept their target interest rate
this month in a range of zero to 0.1 percent to support the
economy after gross domestic product shrank following the March
earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster. The calamities left
more than 22,000 people dead or missing, and the government
estimates it caused 16.9 trillion yen ($215.2 billion) in
damage.  Relatively high interest rates are another lure of the
commodity currencies. Two-year  government bonds  in Australia,
Canada, New Zealand and Norway yield as much as 4.35 percentage
points more than Treasuries of similar maturity.  Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said the country
will be able to eliminate its deficit as soon as the fiscal year
that starts in April 2014.  ‘Outrun’ Commodities  “It seems like the Canadian dollar has outrun its
commodity-price fundamentals,”  Doug Porter , deputy chief
economist with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, said in an
interview last week. “Quite a bit of the strength in the
currency can be directly traced back to the heavy buying of
Canadian bonds.”  Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard has slowed federal
borrowing and her government said two months ago that it will
return to a surplus by 2013. Exports exceeded imports in May by
A$2.33 billion ($2.5 billion), the most in seven months, the
Bureau of Statistics said in a report in Sydney on July 5.  The nation’s government bonds have returned 3.94 percent
the last three months, the most of 26 debt markets tracked by
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes.  “Investors are definitely having a love affair with the
Australian dollar and the bond market,” David Woo, global head
of rates and currencies at Bank of America Corp. in New York,
said in a July 22 interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  