-- 
Australia’s Carbon Tax May Slash Coal-Industry Value by $8.7 Billion

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-07-25T04:33:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/australian-coal-tax-may-cut-coal-industry-value-by-a-8-billion.html
Australia ’s planned carbon tax may
reduce the value of the coal industry by about A$8 billion ($8.7
billion) as producers including  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Anglo American
Plc (AAL)  bear higher costs, according to a research group Wood
Mackenzie Ltd.  “This is an average of a 4 percent reduction in net
present value of coal companies’ Australian portfolios,” Ben
Willacy, Wood Mackenzie’s Australasia coal supply lead analyst
said in an e-mailed report today.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  plans to charge companies an
initial A$23 a ton of carbon dioxide from July 2012 before
moving to an emissions trading system by 2015. Coal mining
companies in Australia, the world’s largest exporter, must pay
for fugitive emissions -- gas emitted naturally from coal
operations -- while receiving A$1.3 billion in compensation,
with the biggest polluters getting assistance over six years.  The effect of carbon pricing will vary significantly
depending on gas emissions from different mines, with gassy
underground mines hit hardest, including those operated by
Caledon Resources Ltd. and Gujarat NRE Ltd., Willacy said.  Operators with open-cut mines, including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
 Macarthur Coal Ltd. (MCC)  and Aston Resources Ltd., will be less
impacted by the tax and those with so-called non-gassy
underground mines will be least affected, he said.  “Companies in the early stages of project planning are
likely to re-evaluate their investments in new coal mines,
particularly underground thermal projects,” Willacy said.  The tax will make certain projects uneconomical and cost
jobs, the Minerals Council of Australia said this month. The
Australian Coal Association said overseas coal buyers may switch
to other nations, forcing mine closures.  Australia will increase the charge by 2.5 percent a year,
plus inflation, through to 2015. The country will then switch to
a cap-and-trade system, while providing about A$47 billion
through 2020 to help households and industries and spur
investment in renewable energy. The government also plans to cut
a fuel rebate on diesel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  