-- 
Layton Develops Second Cancer and Steps Down as New Democratic Leader

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-07-25T20:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/layton-says-he-s-temporarily-stepping-down-as-new-democratic-party-leader.html
Canadian New Democratic Party leader
 Jack Layton , who led his pro-labor party to its best election
result ever in May, said he will take a “temporary” leave of
absence after doctors discovered he has a second form of cancer.  Layton recommended NDP lawmaker Nycole Turmel, former head
of the country’s largest public sector union, to be interim
leader of the party, speaking at a  press conference  in Toronto.
Party executives will announce their selection after a meeting
Thursday.  “I am going to follow the advice of my doctors by focusing
totally on my treatment,” Layton said. “I will beat this new
cancer and I will be back in the House of Commons,” he said,
adding he expects to be back when Parliament returns from its
summer break Sept. 19.  Layton’s New Democrats won 103 of  308 seats  in the House of
Commons in the May 2 campaign, allowing it to replace the
Liberals as the country’s largest opposition party, largely on
the back of a surge in popularity for Layton, particularly in
Quebec. His departure raises the possibility the NDP could erupt
into infighting over succession, said Darrell Bricker, a
Toronto-based pollster.  “It’s obviously going to be a huge problem because it’s
not like there’s a plan B in place,” said Bricker, chief
executive of Ipsos Public Affairs Worldwide. “There is a lot of
potential for disunity in the party as a result of this.”  Economic Policies  During his reign as NDP leader, which began in 2003, Layton
sought to deflect criticism the party was not fit to govern
because its positions would undermine the economy ranked 9th
largest by the  International Monetary Fund . In an April 29
interview with Bloomberg, Layton said his economic plan would
cut the country’s deficit as quickly as the ruling Conservatives
and create more jobs.  In a poll by Nanos  Research  taken just after the election,
Layton was considered more trustworthy than any other federal
leader.  “There are some real implications here, because the NDP
just had this huge surge, this rather strange new parliamentary
caucus, and what brought it together was Jack Layton,” said
Jonathan Malloy, a political science professor at  Carleton
University  in Ottawa. “The party really is associated with his
personal leadership and style.”  Layton announced last year that he was fighting prostate
cancer. While dogged by questions about his health during the
election campaign, Layton touted himself as a “fighter” in his
speeches, regularly drawing cheers on the campaign trail by
waving the cane he was using in his recovery.  ‘Pragmatic Agenda’  “If he is not able to return, the new leader is going to
have to assume a steady-as-she-goes agenda and that means a more
pragmatic agenda that is catered to  Quebec ,” said Kathy Brock,
a political scientist at Queen’s University in Kingston,
Ontario.  Conservative Party leader  Stephen Harper , in power since
2006 without control of the legislature, won a majority of seats
in Parliament for the first time in the May election.  Layton didn’t say today what type of new cancer he has.  Party President Brian Topp told reporters NDP lawmakers
will meet Wednesday and the party’s executive will meet Thursday
before naming an interim leader.  Layton’s nominee for interim leader, Turmel, has held labor
positions at the local, regional and national levels since 1979,
most recently as president of the Public Service Alliance of
 Canada .  Before parliament broke for a summer recess in June, Layton
and Harper clashed over the  Conservative Party ’s efforts to end
work stoppages by postal workers and employees at Air Canada.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at   targitis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 