-- 
Bank of Ireland to Avoid State Control With Sale of Stake

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-07-25T16:24:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/bank-of-ireland-to-avoid-state-control-with-sale-of-stake-2-.html
Ireland agreed to sell as much as 37
percent of Bank of Ireland Plc to an investor group for 1.12
billion euros ($1.61 billion), a day before a rights offering
was set to give the government majority ownership of the lender.  Private investors will own at least 68 percent of the
country’s largest bank after the transaction closes tomorrow,
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said in a statement today. The
stake is being sold to fewer than 10 institutional investors
from outside the country, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter. U.S. billionaire  Wilbur Ross  is among
the investors, RTE reported today.  Bank of Ireland is seeking to raise 1.9 billion euros in a
rights offering to bolster capital. The lender is offering
investors shares at 10 cents each, compared with the 10.1 cents
the stock traded at on July 22. The Dublin-based lender said on
July 8 that the state may own between 29 percent and 70 percent
of the lender, depending on how many private investors purchase
stock in the rights offering.  “Foreign investment in Bank of Ireland is an important
milestone for the Irish government,” analysts including  Jim Ryan  and  Michael Cummins  at Dublin-based fixed-income firm Glas
Securities, said in a note to clients. “It sends a positive
signal to the market after what has been a fairly miserable 18
months for the Irish banking sector.”  Bank of Ireland rose 1 percent to 10.2 cents at the 5:10
p.m. close of Dublin trading.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the
nation’s second-largest lender, rose 8.9 percent to 13.5 cents.  Allied Irish  Most of the investors are new to the bank, said two of the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. The identity of the investors will become known in the
coming weeks as each passes the stock exchange’s 3 percent
disclosure threshold, they said. Officials at the Bank of
Ireland and  Finance Ministry  declined to comment. Officials at
Ross’s New York office said he wasn’t available to comment.  Ireland was forced to seek an 85 billion-euro international
bailout in November following the near-collapse of the country’s
banks as deposits flowed out of the system. The state already
controls Anglo Irish Bank Corp., Irish  Nationwide Building
Society  and EBS Ltd., with Irish Life & Permanent Plc also close
to falling under the state’s aegis.  “We still value the bank closer to 8 to 8.5 cents compared
to the rights price of 10 cents, given our view on the headwinds
facing the domestic financial system,” said  Eamonn Hughes , an
analyst at based Goodbody Stockbrokers, in a note to clients.  Investor Talks  Separately,  Allied Irish  said today its underlying loss
widened to 2.6 billion euros in the first half from 2.1 billion
euros in the year-earlier period as bad debts climbed.  Allied Irish Chairman David Hodgkinson said he wants to
persuade investors to return to the lender in 2012. The state’s
holding in the bank is set to rise to 99.8 percent by the end of
this month from 93 percent, as the government injects a further
14.8 billion euros into the company.  Hodgkinson has had “positive” talks with investors who
want to wait to see how loan losses develop in the second half,
he said in an interview with Dublin-based RTE Radio today.  Allied Irish acting Chief Financial Officer Paul Stanley
said in a phone interview the bank’s bad loan losses should peak
this year. Loans in arrears of more than 90 days rose to 7.8
percent of its Irish home loans at the end of June from 4.8
percent six months earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  