-- 
Bank Lobbyists Push European Members to Support Greek Debt Rollover Plan

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-07-25T19:51:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/bank-lobbyists-push-european-members-to-support-greek-debt-rollover-plan.html
The  Institute of International
Finance , which lobbies on behalf of banks, is pressing members
that hold Greek government debt to support a rescue package amid
concern it may not reach its 90 percent participation target.  European lenders including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA pledged to back the plan brokered by the Washington-based
lobby group. Together, banks that own a total of 61 billion
euros ($88 billion) of Greek debt have signed up, according to
figures from the European stress tests this month. Banks holding
a further 37 billion euros have yet to state their intentions.  “We are contacting institutions to explain the merits of
the proposal and the list is growing,” Hung Tran, the IIF’s
deputy managing director, said in a telephone interview today.
“If several banks don’t sign up, we will cross that bridge when
we come to it. Ultimately it is a voluntary process.”  Banks pledged on July 22 to participate in a bond exchange
and debt buyback program as European leaders sought to halt the
spread of the sovereign debt crisis. The IIF said in a statement
it had secured support from 18 European banks for the proposal,
by which bondholders will swap holdings for new securities with
lower  interest rates  and longer maturities. The IIF said it
wanted owners of 90 percent of Greek debt to back the plan.  ‘Some Doubts’  “We have some doubts about the targeted 90 percent
participation,” said  Kinner Lakhani , bank analyst at Citigroup
Inc. in London. “Although the need for collective action has
been obvious, there is always the risk of some banks holding
out.”  Austria’s Erste Group Bank AG, Cyprus’s Marfin Popular Bank
Pcl,  Portugal ’s Banco Comercial Portugues SA and  France ’s Groupe
BPCE are yet to decide whether to sign up to the project,
according to four people with knowledge of the situation who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. The
four own about 5.7 billion euros of Greek debt, according to the
EBA data. Officials at the banks declined to comment.  Agricultural Bank of  Greece , the third largest holder of
Greek bonds with 7.9 billion euros, is also yet to pledge its
support, as is Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which holds 1.2
billion euros. A spokesman for Edinburgh-based RBS declined to
comment, while Agricultural Bank of Greece didn’t return calls.  Greece’s financing package will consist of 109 billion
euros from the euro region nations and the  International
Monetary Fund . Financial institutions will contribute 50 billion
euros through a series of bond exchanges and buybacks to cut
 Europe ’s biggest-debt load.  Market Return  “Europe knows, the IMF knows, we all know this does not
work without continued IMF support,” IIF Managing Director
 Charles Dallara  told reporters in  Washington  today. He didn’t
say what the IMF share of total financing would be.  If all participants in the bailout play their part,
“there’s every reason to believe” that Greece could return to
capital markets within two years, he said. “That assumes
performance.”  After focusing on getting support from European
institutions last week, the IIF will now work on getting broader
participation, including in the U.S., where the holding of Greek
debt is small, he said. He expects the deal to “gain further
momentum.”  The timeline for the bond exchange program depends on the
Greek government, which is hiring a team to set up the specifics
of the exchange, Dallara said. He said he expects the precise
terms to be ready “in a matter of weeks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in  London  at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  