-- 
Barclays’ Robinson Says Euro, Yen ‘Most Attractive’ on U.S. Debt

-- B y   S u s a n   L i   a n d   R o c k y   S w i f t
-- 
2011-07-25T02:51:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/barclays-robinson-says-euro-yen-most-attractive-on-u-s-debt.html
Paul Robinson , the global head of
foreign-exchange research at  Barclays Capital , comments on
effects on the dollar and major currencies as U.S. lawmakers
debate cutting the deficit and raising the debt limit.  He spoke in an interview today on Bloomberg Television’s
“First Up.”  On effects on the dollar from the U.S. debt ceiling issue:  “It’s amazing how little impact there is on important
announcements on the debt issues.”  “The negative U.S. shock, to some extent, offsets the
global-risk shock when it comes to the dollar overall.”  “It’s typically a safe-haven currency.”  On how the U.S. debt negotiations will play out:  “If the U.S. doesn’t get its fiscal house in order, then
the global economy has problems.”  “I think it is just going to go to the wire.”  “What they’re both hoping is the other guy will blink. I
think that’s a very dangerous game of chicken they’re playing.”  The best bets in  currency markets :  “Now is not the time to get too risky, too adventurous
when it comes to FX markets.”  “The two currencies that are most attractive at the moment
are the euro, because the debt issues haven’t really been
resolved in the long term but have in the shorter run, and the
yen, the classic risk-off trade.”  On why Japanese authorities are less likely to try to weaken the
yen now compared to the intervention in March:  “That was a very special case, the earthquake had just
happened. Importantly, the yen was appreciating very quickly,
not just against the dollar but against all currencies. That
isn’t happening now. The yen is grinding higher. That’s a big
difference.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rocky Swift in Tokyo at   rswift5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  