-- 
Bentley Explores SUV With Demand Beyond Brunei

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-07-25T23:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/bentley-explores-suv-with-demand-beyond-sultan-of-brunei-cars.html
Bentley Motors Ltd. , whose customers
include  Queen Elizabeth II  and the Sultan of  Brunei , may expand
its line-up with a sport-utility vehicle to satisfy appetite for
bigger luxury models, two people familiar with the matter said.  Bentley Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Duerheimer, who as
Porsche development chief oversaw the sports-car maker’s push
into SUVs in 2002, wants the 92-year-old British manufacturer to
build an off-road model and has already discussed his plan with
executives at parent  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the people said, on
condition they not be identified because the matter is private.  “The traditional perception of brands -- Bentley as the
maker of large, luxurious sedans -- is open to expansion,” said
 Michael Tyndall , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London ,
adding that Bentley might be able to fetch a price of more than
120,000 euros for an SUV. “There appears to be customers out
there who are willing to spend that much on a luxury SUV.”  Porsche AG, once best known for  sports cars  like the 911,
now relies on the Cayenne SUV for half its deliveries. Porsche
will add a second SUV in 2013 to capitalize on the model’s
success, while Jaguar Land Rover is mulling a crossover vehicle.
Aston Martin also says it’s not ruling out an SUV-type car.  Production of luxury SUVs, including the 58,000-euro
($83,000) Cayenne, the 75,000-euro Mercedes-Benz GL-Class and
the 56,000-euro Range Rover Sport, is set to expand 15 percent
to 481,000 vehicles in 2015 from 417,000 last year, according to
research firm IHS Automotive. Automakers built 298,654 luxury
SUVs in 2005, IHS said.  ‘No Limits’  “The margins for these vehicles continue to be very high
and may attract more players to the segment,” said Henner
Lehne, a Frankfurt-based IHS analyst. “Customers in  China  and
Russia usually opt for the specially-equipped versions, they’re
under no limits.”  Crewe, England-based Bentley, part of Volkswagen’s stable
of ultra-luxury brands including  Lamborghini SpA  and  Bugatti ,
posted a 57 percent surge in six-month China sales to 680 cars.
Duerheimer is keen for the carmaker to tap growing demand for
SUVs in the U.S., China and U.K., Bentley’s three biggest
markets, to further propel growth, the people said.  Bentley spokeswoman Benita von Maltzahn said there are “no
concrete plans” for an SUV, declining to elaborate. VW
spokesman Michael Brendel declined to comment.  The U.K. brand, which makes sedans, convertibles and coupes
based on the Mulsanne and Continental model lines, says on its
website that it takes 150 hours to build a Continental GT by
hand and 400 hours to make an Arnage, predecessor of the
flagship Mulsanne sedan. Steering wheels are double-stitched
using two needles, with 15 hours needed to create one wheel.
Every piece of glass in a Bentley is given its final polish with
finely powdered pumice normally used to polish optical lenses.  ‘Finest Handicraft’  “Bentleys are known for the finest handicraft,” said
 Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive Management
at the University of Applied Sciences in Bergisch-Gladbach,
 Germany . “They’ll have to aim for an absolute top-end SUV to be
true to their heritage.”  The Cayenne, Porsche’s best-selling model, accounted for
half the Stuttgart, Germany-based carmaker’s 10,670 deliveries
last month. Chinese customers wait an average of 15 months for
delivery of the version with a 3.0-liter engine.  Porsche, which charges 121,000 euros for the 500-horsepower
Turbo version of the Cayenne, is planning to increase production
of the model by 10 percent to 20 percent starting next year to
try and meet demand, sales chief Bernhard Maier said on July 10.  Cayenne Popularity  “Porsche is very much a sports-car maker but many people
would argue that the Cayenne has been the making of the
company,” Tyndall said.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , is adding assembly of the X3 model to a factory
in Chennai,  India , while  Daimler AG (DAI)  is spending more than $2
billion to boost capacity at a Mercedes-Benz plant in
Tuscaloosa, Alabama, where M-, R- and GL-Class SUVs are made.  Volkswagen’s Audi division, which started selling the Q3
compact SUV last month, may add a fourth variant to its Q3, Q5
and Q7 lineup, sales chief  Peter Schwarzenbauer  said in a July 8
interview. Audi suspended summer holidays at its main
Ingolstadt, Germany-based factory to maintain output of the Q5,
and has extended around-the-clock production of its Q7 model at
a VW plant in Bratislava, Slovakia, until the end of the year.  “We firmly expect this boom to continue and have a lot of
creative ideas for the future,” Schwarzenbauer said. “The
potential of the SUV market is huge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  