-- 
Bioline Begins Nasdaq Trading in Bid to Lure U.S. Investors

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-25T11:26:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/bioline-begins-nasdaq-trading-in-bid-to-lure-u-s-investors-1-.html
Bioline RX Ltd. (BLRX) ’s American
depositary receipts start trading on the  Nasdaq  Stock Market
today as the biopharmaceutical company seeks to raise its
profile among U.S. investors.  The listing “gives us real exposure and also confidence
with the investing public that we are reporting according to
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules,” Chief Financial
Officer Philip Serlin said in an interview in  Jerusalem . The
Nasdaq listing may lead to a share sale in the U.S. “when the
timing is right and the market is right.”  Israel  has 59 companies, including Bioline, trading on the
Nasdaq, the most of any non-U.S. country other than  China . The
Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest Israeli companies
traded in  New York  has declined 2.2 percent this year, while
Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index lost 4.8 percent this year, or 1
percent in dollar terms, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bioline shares, which have dropped 12 percent in Tel Aviv
since the company bought back rights to its schizophrenia drug
from Cypress Bioscience Inc. on May 11, trade at 18 times 2010
earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a regional industry average of 32 times. Its ADRs represent
10 ordinary shares. The company is the 10th most heavily
weighted on the 30-member  Tel Aviv Biomed Index . The measure has
fallen 3.8 percent since the Cypress buyback.  Bioline jumped 7.4 percent to 1.895 shekels at 1:38 p.m. in
 Tel Aviv , bringing the two-day gain to 14 percent, or the most
since July 4. The U.S. listing was arranged by Bank of New York
Mellon Corp.  Israeli Companies  “The listing of the ADRs might improve the company’s
access to future financial resources by exposure to U.S.
investors,” said Yoav Kedar, a biotechnology consultant for
Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd., which has a “market perform”
recommendation for the shares.  The schizophrenia drug is one of the company’s leading
products, along with a cardiac device that acts as a scaffolding
to help the heart recover after an attack, the company said.
Bioline has out-licensed the cardiac device to biotherapeutics
company Ikaria Inc. and expects it to be ready for the market
within a few years. It is looking for a new partner for its
schizophrenia drug, which it says targets a market of $13.6
billion.  Cardiac-Device Market  “We currently rate the two lead programs as high-risk,
high-reward options,” said Kedar. “The next value driver will
be the nature of additional plans that will be advanced to
clinical trial.”  The cardiac device out-licensed to Ikaria, the Clinton, New
Jersey-based developer of respiratory systems, in exchange for
as much as 15 percent of sales in royalties, may have global
demand of $4 billion a year, Bioline Chief Executive Officer
Kinneret Savitsky said.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, is Bioline’s largest shareholder. Teva
on May 2 agreed to buy biopharmaceutical company Cephalon Inc.
for $6.8 billion, giving it more than 30 experimental drugs in
the late stages of development.  “It will take time before we get sustainable revenue and
then we can make some strategic decisions,” about whether or
not to take its  drug development  through to the final stages or
continuing licensing out as it is now, Serlin said. “We are on
schedule for what we’ve wanted to achieve until now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net . 