-- 
Resort Developer Blixseth Seeks to Join $2.5 Billion Credit Suisse Lawsuit

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-07-25T16:37:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/blixseth-seeks-to-join-2-5-billion-suit-against-credit-suisse.html
The founders of the Yellowstone Club
and Tamarack Resort are seeking to join a group lawsuit against
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , according to a July 22 filing in  U.S.
federal court  in Boise, Idaho.  Tim Blixseth and Alfredo Miguel want to join the suit
against the Swiss bank originally filed in January 2010 that
seeks at least $2.5 billion, according to a statement they
issued today.  The two contend they were defrauded through a “predatory
loan scheme that artificially inflated the value of the resorts
to saddle them with enormous and unsustainable debt,” according
to the statement.  Property owners and other investors lost billions of
dollars at the  luxury resorts , which defaulted on their loans,
the two said in their statement. Yellowstone Club filed for
bankruptcy in 2008. Creditors put Tamarack Resort into
involuntary bankruptcy in 2009.  Blixseth and his former wife,  Edra Blixseth , founded the
Yellowstone Club, near Big Sky, Montana, in 2000 as a ski resort
for millionaires looking for vacation homes. Tamarack, a golf
and ski resort in Valley County, Idaho, is on leased state land.
It’s partly owned by VPG Investments Inc., controlled by Miguel,
a Mexican businessman.  “Credit Suisse rejects these entirely meritless
allegations,” Steven Vames, a spokesman for the Zurich-based
company, said in an e-mailed statement. “Mr. Blixseth’s attempt
to latch onto an existing suit, which has already seen many of
the plaintiffs’ claims dismissed, is simply his latest attempt
to shift blame to others and away from his own conduct.”  The case is Gibson v. Credit Suisse AG, 10-cv-001, U.S.
District Court, District of  Idaho  (Boise).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 