-- 
BP Gulf Claims Fund Pressures Spill Victims, Lawyers Say

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-07-25T18:27:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/bp-violates-oil-pollution-law-in-claims-process-lawyers-say.html
BP Plc (BP)  is using “coercive tactics”
to force victims of the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill to agree
to final settlements with its claims fund, lawyers suing the
company said.  BP set up the $20 billion Gulf Coast Claims Facility to pay
emergency, interim and final payments to the victims under the
provisions of the U.S. Oil Pollution Act. Lawyers for property
owners, businesses and others claiming harm say victims have
been forced to sign releases for inadequate payments because
they could no longer afford to wait for full compensation.  A federal judge should appoint a special master to oversee
the process, the lawyers said in papers filed today in federal
court in  New Orleans . They also asked U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is overseeing the litigation, to “suspend the
effectiveness” of any releases signed by spill victims who
received money from the fund.  “BP has failed to comply with the letter and spirit of
OPA, a law designed to provide an interim claims process,”
according to the filing. The primary function of the claims
process has been to convince victims “that the only
compensation available is a minimal set amount that comes with a
full release attached,” the lawyers said.  “The GCCF will respond to the filing in due course,”
 Kenneth Feinberg , administrator of the BP fund, said in an e-
mail. “We have paid interim payments to over 20,000 claimants
and there are over 40,000 final payment offers outstanding. The
GCCF has so far paid out over $250 million in interim payments
and $4.8 billion in total claims.”  Scott Dean  and Daren Beaudo, spokesmen for London-based BP,
didn’t immediately respond to e-mail or phone messages seeking
comment.  Attorneys General   In April, after four Gulf state attorneys general asked the
judge to intervene with the fund, Feinberg said Barbier had no
legal authority to oversee the BP claims process. The state
officials asked Barbier to conduct an independent audit and hold
public hearings on the results, as they claimed Feinberg’s fund
was stalling interim payments to pressure “economically
desperate’’ victims into settling too soon for too little.  “Even if it did have legal authority,’’ imposing the
court’s supervision over Feinberg’s fund would “divert
resources and chill the ability of GCCF personnel to work
expeditiously without fear of running afoul of an independent
auditor and a court-imposed evidentiary hearing,’’ David Pitofsky, Feinberg’s lawyer, said in an April filing.  Independent Audit  Last week, Feinberg agreed to commence an independent audit
of the fund before the end of this year, after U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder requested one following a face-to-face
meeting over government concerns about delays in payments to
spill victims.  BP faces more than 350 lawsuits by thousands of property
owners, fishing interests and tourism businesses claiming harm
from the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. The spill
resulted from the April 2010 explosion and sinking of the
Deepwater Horizon rig while drilling a BP well off the  Louisiana 
coast.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net  and;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 