-- 
Broadcom Rises After Sales Forecast Beats Analyst Estimates

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-07-26T20:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/broadcom-forecasts-quarterly-sales-exceeding-some-estimates-shares-climb.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) ’s shares rose after
the supplier of communications chips for Apple Inc.’s mobile
devices forecast third-quarter sales that topped analysts’
estimates on surging demand for the iPhone and iPad.  Third-quarter sales will be $1.9 billion to $2 billion, the
Irvine, California-based company said in a statement yesterday.
Analysts on average estimated sales of $1.93 billion, according
to a Bloomberg survey.  Broadcom makes wireless radio chips that help Apple’s
smartphones and tablets connect over Wi-Fi and Bluetooth
signals. Apple said last week it sold 20.3 million iPhones and
9.3 million iPads in the quarter that ended in June, topping
analysts’ predictions. Broadcom also makes chips for computer
and telecommunications networking equipment.  “Apple is a meaningful customer,” said Ambrish Srivastava, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in  San Francisco .
“Networking and infrastructure should be recovering as well.
That’s their least appreciated business by investors.”  The stock increased $3.29, or 9.4 percent, to $38.20 at 4
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, for the biggest
gain since Oct. 27. The shares had dropped 20 percent this year
before today.  Demand from Apple helped counter slower demand from Finnish
handset maker Nokia Oyj, which Broadcom supplies with longer-
range cellular radio chips, according to Srivastava, who
recommends buying the shares and said he doesn’t own the stock.  Orders  Orders from makers of cable and satellite set-top boxes
have also been weak as manufacturers worked through stockpiles
of unsold chips, the company said on a conference call
yesterday.  Second-quarter net income fell to $175 million, or 31 cents
a share, from $278 million, or 52 cents, a year earlier, the
company said. Sales in the second quarter rose 12 percent to
$1.8 billion. Analysts projected Broadcom would have net income
of 40 cents a share on sales of $1.81 billion, the average
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Broadcom’s third-quarter gross margin, or the percentage of
revenue left after subtracting production costs, will be
unchanged to “up slightly” from the second quarter’s 49.6
percent, the company said.  “We’re certainly seeing our markets rebound nicely to give
us the guidance that we do have,” Chief Executive Officer Scott McGregor said on the conference call. “Broadcom has very strong
products right now, and we do see an opportunity to grow our
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  