-- 
Canadian Stocks Fall as U.S. Lawmakers Argue Over Debt Ceiling

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-07-26T20:40:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/brookfield-canadian-national-cenovus-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks fell for a second
day as financial companies dropped after President  Barack Obama 
warned of a “deep economic crisis” if lawmakers there can’t
agree on a plan to raise the debt ceiling by Aug. 2.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Canada ’s second-largest lender by
assets, decreased 1.9 percent.  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,
Canada’s largest wireless carrier, retreated 3.5 percent after
reporting a decline in profits from its wireless unit.  Canadian
National Railway Co. (CNR) , the country’s biggest railroad, lost 4.2
percent after an analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. cut his rating on
the shares.  “We have this issue in the U.S. that seems to be hanging
around for a while,” Sadiq Adatia, chief investment officer at
Sun Life Global Investments in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. The unit of Sun Life Financial Inc. manages C$2.3
billion ($2.4 billion) for clients. “Canada’s looking over its
shoulder at the U.S. If they have an issue down there, it’s
going to affect us as well.”  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index dropped 135.39
points, or 1 percent, to 13,300.56.  The S&P/TSX rose 1 percent this month through yesterday as
the European debt crisis and U.S. debt-ceiling deadlock led to
gains in gold stocks and drops in financial companies’ shares.
The S&P/TSX Financials Index, the biggest part of the equity
benchmark, is on pace to fall for a fourth-straight month for
the first time since February 2009.  Debt Battle  Canada’s six largest banks each retreated as Obama battled
with U.S. Republicans over how to cut the country’s debt. TD
decreased 1.9 percent to C$78.68.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , Canada’s
third-biggest lender by assets, fell 2.1 percent, the most in 11
months, to C$55.91.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,  North America ’s
fourth-largest insurer, slipped 1.4 percent to C$15.60.  S&P/TSX energy stocks retreated for the first time in six
days as natural gas futures dropped.  Canadian Natural Resources
Ltd. (CNQ) , Canada’s second-largest energy company by market value,
lost 1.9 percent to C$40.62.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the owner of
Canada’s largest pipeline system, retreated 1.3 percent to
C$40.25. Canadian Oil Sands Ltd., the largest owner of the
Syncrude project, declined 2.4 percent to C$27.57.  Wireless Operations  Rogers dropped 3.5 percent, the most since October, to
C$36.50. Profits excluding certain items from its wireless
operations declined more than most analysts had estimated,  Maher Yaghi , an analyst at Desjardins Securities, said in a note to
clients.  CN lost 4.2 percent, the most in two years, to C$72.05
after reporting second-quarter earnings excluding certain items
that surpassed the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg
survey by 0.6 percent. The profit trailed the forecast of Jason H. Seidl, an analyst at Dahlman Rose, by 3.1 percent. He cut his
rating on CN to “hold” from “buy,” citing its share price
and economic uncertainty. The shares had rallied 13 percent this
year through yesterday.  Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN) , which produces copper and zinc in
 Turkey ,  Spain  and  Finland , plunged 4.9 percent to C$66.60. The
company’s second-quarter profit trailed the average estimate in
a Bloomberg survey by 30 percent, excluding certain items. Orest Wowkodaw, an analyst at Canaccord Financial Inc., cut his 12-
month price estimate on the shares to C$87 from C$90.  Sino-Forest  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the forestry company fighting a short
seller’s assertions of financial manipulation, rose 12 percent
to C$7.12. The shares have doubled since July 18, the day before
New Zealand billionaire Richard Chandler increased his stake in
the company.  Cardiome Pharma Corp. (COM) , which develops heart drugs, soared
28 percent to C$5.27 after saying it will transfer the North
American development and commercialization rights for
vernakalant (IV), also known as Kynapid, to Merck & Co. In a
note to clients, Neil Maruoka, an analyst at Canaccord Financial
Inc., raised his rating on the shares to “buy” from “hold.”  “The addition of Cardiome’s long-standing partner to this
program provides new clarity of the potential path to approval
for this drug,” Maruoka wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  