-- 
BSkyB Faces $4.2 Billion Payout Quandary on Murdoch Scandal

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T12:29:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/bskyb-directors-face-4-2-billion-quandary.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s
board of directors faces a dilemma over a potential 2.6 billion-
pound ($4.2 billion) payout to shareholders that would also go
to  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , the company whose bid for BSkyB
collapsed because of a phone-hacking scandal.  The 14-person board, chaired by son James Murdoch, will on
July 28 consider a one-time dividend to investors, said a person
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named because the
meeting is private. BSkyB stock dropped 17 percent in seven days
before the hacking allegations forced News Corp. to shelve its
offer for full control of the U.K. pay-TV company. News Corp. is
BSkyB’s biggest shareholder with a 39 percent stake.  “They’ve ended up in a position where they can’t do the
right thing, because that involves doing the wrong thing by some
people,” said  Chris Bryant , the opposition Labour lawmaker who
is suing News International, the News Corp. unit that published
the News of the World, the newspaper that was closed down this
month as the phone-hacking crisis engulfed Murdoch’s media
empire.  BSkyB shares soared as high as 850 pence before the
Guardian reported on July 4 that News of the World employees
intercepted murder victim Milly Dowler’s voice mails in 2002.  1,000 Pence  Closing at 739 pence in London yesterday, the stock was
still 13 percent below that level and 26 percent less than the
1,000 pence Citigroup Inc. analysts said in March News Corp.
might eventually pay. New York-based News Corp. had bid 700
pence, or 7.8 billion pounds in total, for the remaining 61
percent stake.  BSkyB slid 11 pence, or 1.5 percent, to 728 pence as of
8:51 a.m. in  London .  BSkyB declined to comment on the board meeting or any
possible dividend plan. Alice Macandrew, a News Corp.
spokeswoman in London, declined to comment when asked about News
Corp.’s position on a BSkyB dividend.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  London-based BSkyB could pay 80 pence a share in special
dividends using its own cash, said Lorna Tilbian, an analyst at
Numis Securities, who recommends buying BSkyB shares. The
dividend could reach as much as 150 pence if the board opts to
increase the ratio of its net debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization to two times, she said.  Cash Flow   “Pressure is on the board to do something and the most
obvious sign of that would be a cash return,” said Derek Mitchell, a  fund manager  at Royal London Asset Management, which
holds BSkyB shares through its  index funds . “Sky is such a cash
generative vehicle. They’ve got to the end of their investment
phase, which is why Murdoch wanted to take it over. So it seems
an obvious move.”  While BSkyB was in a year-long offer period, its board
didn’t consider changes to its  capital structure , the person
said. BSkyB’s nine-month free cash flow climbed 60 percent to
615 million pounds from a year earlier.  The company may say July 29 earnings before interest and
taxes rose 29 percent to 1.05 billion pounds in the year through
June, helped by the addition of high-definition TV subscribers,
according to the average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. BSkyB may propose a final dividend of 12.6 pence,
bringing the full-year total to 21 pence, the survey shows.  Dividend Yield  The broadcaster trails European rivals in rewarding
investors. BSkyB’s gross dividend yield of 3 percent over 12
months is half of that for  Germany ’s  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. (PSM) 
RTL Group SA’s stock yields 7.3 percent, while  Mediaset SpA (MS) 
reached 11 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The last time BSkyB shares fell more over a seven-day
period was in August 2004, when James Murdoch, then chief
executive officer, announced an expanded spending plan, a target
for more than 10 million subscribers and returning cash to
shareholders via share buybacks.  The pay-television provider is unlikely to repurchase
shares this time as a buyback would increase News Corp.’s own
holding, Numis’s Tilbian said. “Given that they’re being
investigated, shareholders will not want them to have a creeping
shareholding.”  News Corp. is dealing with three probes by police and
regulators into phone hacking at the News of the World. At least
10 people have been arrested, including former News
International CEO Rebekah Brooks and ex-News of the World editor
 Andy Coulson , who was Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s press chief
until January. The scandal has wiped almost $4.8 billion off
News Corp.’s market value since July 4.  Board Changes?  “My smell of it is that it wouldn’t be appropriate even if
it might make sense in business terms,” said Steven Barnett, a
professor of communications at the University of Westminster in
London, of a one-time BSkyB dividend. “The last thing they want
is more bad headlines to pile up on the bad headlines they’ve
had over the last two weeks.”  BSkyB’s board has also come under pressure to review  James Murdoch ’s role as non-executive chairman, after his testimony
last week was contradicted by two former News International
employees. While the hacking incidents took place before he
started overseeing News International since 2007, he authorized
settlements to hacking victims that are now being questioned.  As CEO of BSkyB, James Murdoch more than doubled the
company’s profit in four years and increased sales by 42 percent
as he drove the broadcaster beyond traditional pay-TV business.  Investor Backing  “If it hadn’t been for James Murdoch then Sky wouldn’t
have been as brilliant as it is,” said  David Stewart , CEO of
Odey Asset Management in London, which holds 2.7 percent of
BSkyB’s shares. “Unless the police find something we don’t see
any reason for that to change.”  Some long-serving board members, including  David Evans , the
former Crown Media Holdings Inc. CEO who joined the board in
2001, may step down at the company’s annual general meeting in
the fall, the person familiar with the situation said.  James Murdoch plans to attend this week’s board meeting and
has no plan to step down as chairman, another person familiar
with the matter said last week.  The 38-year-old also sits on the boards of  Sotheby’s (BID) , the
largest publicly traded auction house, News Corp.-backed software
company NDS Group Ltd. and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s 
biggest drugmaker. Glaxo CEO  Andrew Witty  said today that 
Murdoch remains on its board.  “We’re of the view that we’d like to see various
investigations run their course, so then the whole thing can
come to a more considered conclusion,” Witty said on the
drugmaker’s earnings conference call. “It’s important that we
just wait for the facts to be established.”  BSkyB may still want to distance itself from News Corp. in
the short term and delay a dividend for 12 months to 18 months
instead, said Guy Peddy, an analyst at Macquarie Securities in
London, who has a “neutral” rating on BSkyB shares.  “This news flow could draw BSkyB into the wider media
frenzy,” Peddy said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  