-- 
Euro ‘Not a Hot Topic,’ Bulgaria’s Djankov Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-07-25T12:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/bulgarian-euro-not-a-hot-topic-finance-minister-djankov-says.html
Bulgaria  is putting its euro-
adoption plans on hold until the currency union overhauls its
rules to prevent future crises, Finance Minister  Simeon Djankov 
said.  “We want to wait and see how the remaining questions for
the euro zone itself are resolved,” Djankov said in a July 22
interview in London. “We want to see how this develops before
we decide when to go. It’s not a hot topic right now.”  Bulgaria may decide this year on when to revive its efforts
to adopt the euro, including joining the pre-euro exchange-rate
mechanism, known as ERM, after lawmakers vote on a plan to
enshrine spending and deficit limits in the constitution,
Djankov said.  Euro-area leaders on July 21 hammered out a new aid package
for  Greece  to end a 21-month old sovereign debt crisis that
threatened to rip apart the single currency. Leaders, including
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , have called for tighter fiscal
discipline within the currency union.  The yield on Bulgaria’s 2015 dollar bonds fell for a fourth
day, dropping 1 basis point to 3.27 percent, the lowest level
since July 11. The yield on its 2013 bonds denominated in euros
was little change, at 3.09 percent.  Bulgaria, a European Union member since 2007 and the bloc’s
poorest nation, cut spending and raised tax collection to trim
its deficit, targeting a shortfall of 2.5 percent of economic
output this year and 0.5 percent by 2014.  No Target Date  The Balkan nation has no official target date for adopting
the euro. Prime Minister  Boiko Borissov ’s government, which took
office in July 2009, scrapped plans last year to apply for
joining the ERM after it was forced to revise the 2009 and 2010
deficit beyond the EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product.  The constitutional change is aimed at ensuring long-term
financial stability and helping Bulgaria prepare for euro
adoption. It’s designed to cap the  budget deficit  at 2 percent
of GDP and  government spending  at 40 percent of GDP. While not
yet part of the constitution, which requires a two-thirds
majority to modify, the limits were passed as a law this month,
Djankov said.  Moody’s Investors Service raised the nation’s debt rating
on July 22 to Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade, from
Baa3, citing the government’s budget rigor for the improvement.
The rating is on par with Brazil and  Kazakhstan  and is a step
above Hungary and  Romania .  The increase reflects “ongoing fiscal discipline and
improving institutional strength as well as the financial
system’s relative resilience in a volatile regional
environment,” Moody’s said.  Eurobond Plans  While the improved rating would cut financing costs,
Bulgaria may not need to tap international bond markets this
year as the deficit in the first six months, at 0.9 percent of
GDP, was smaller than the government expected, Djankov said.
Bulgaria plans to raise about 500 million euros ($718 million)
to refinance bonds maturing in 2014, he said.  The rating upgrade “certainly helps us to issue
Eurobonds,” he said. “We’re not in a hurry. We need less money
now than we thought we’d need at the beginning of the fiscal
year. It’s very unlikely that it should happen this year.”  Djankov said he’s “quite confident” the economy will
expand at least 3.6 percent this year, as targeted by the
government. The economy grew 0.2 percent in 2010 and shrank 5.1
percent in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  