-- 
Bunds Lose to Treasuries as Credit-Default Swaps Count for Costs of Rescue

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-25T16:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/bunds-losing-to-treasuries-as-default-swaps-count-costs-of-merkel-s-rescue.html
For the first time, the U.S. is at
risk of defaulting, and derivatives show that it’s riskier to
hold German bunds than Treasuries.  Credit-default swaps tied to bunds jumped about 39 percent
this month, pushing the cost of insuring against losses above
that for  U.S. debt . That hasn’t happened since April. All 20
strategists and economists surveyed by Bloomberg say yields on
10-year German securities will rise by year-end, after falling
as investors sought a haven from the region’s debt turmoil.  While  Germany ’s economy is growing faster than the U.S. and
the rest of the euro zone, bond traders are concerned about the
spiraling costs the nation will face as  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
leads the bailout of cash-strapped partners among the 17 nations
that share the currency. Germany has failed to receive enough
bids for all the bonds offered at auctions three times this
year.  “The solution to the peripheral crisis is Germany
pillaging its balance sheet by lending more and more money to
troubled countries,”  Stuart Thomson , a money manager in Glasgow
at Ignis Asset Management, which oversees $120 billion, said in
an interview last week. “That view is reflected in the CDS
prices, but not bond yields. The idea of fiscal union will
eventually undermine German sovereign credibility. We are more
positive about Treasuries than bunds.”  Europe Bailouts  The European Union and  International Monetary Fund  have
committed about 365 billion euros ($525 billion) to bail out
Greece, Ireland and Portugal, including an additional 109
billion euros for Greece last week. The aid comes partly from a
440 billion-euro EU facility, which can buy bonds of debt-laden
nations.  Germany is responsible for 27 percent of the rescue funds,
according to a European Financial Stability Facility document.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year German bund jumped 13
basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, last week to 2.83
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Treasury 10-
year yields rose 6 basis points to 2.96 percent. The spread has
narrowed from as much as 53 basis points in January.  Treasury 10-year notes yielded 2.98 percent today as of
11:49 a.m. in  New York , while bund yields were six basis points
lower at 2.76 percent.  Bund yields will rise to 3.36 percent by year-end, while
Treasury rates will increase to 3.5 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists and strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Lagging Behind  Returns on bunds are already lagging behind Treasuries,
gaining 1.4 percent this year, compared with 3.3 percent in the
U.S., according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Treasuries rose this month even after Moody’s Investors
Service and  Standard & Poor’s  said the U.S. may lose its top AAA
credit rating if lawmakers don’t raise the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling and there is no credible plan to lower the
$1.3 trillion  budget deficit . Germany has the same ranking.  “Although Germany’s public finances have worsened as a
result of the recession, the deterioration has been more
contained than that of several ‘AAA’ rated peers, whose steep
deficit increases have been more pronounced and may well persist
for longer,” S&P said in a May 18 report.  Credit-default swaps suggest the forecasts for bund yields
may be too conservative. The cost of hedging against losses in
German debt for five years ended last week at 56.8 basis points,
compared with 52.9 for the U.S., according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by Chicago-based exchange owner CME Group Inc.
German swaps rose above their U.S. counterparts on July 11 for
the first time since April 26.  Contracts Outstanding  The contracts typically increase as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall when it improves. Swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  “CDSs can lead or foreshadow a movement in the cash
market,” Bradley Tank, the chief investment officer for fixed
income in  Chicago  at Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC, which
oversees about $83 billion, said in an interview last week.
“What’s viewed as positive for bunds over the short term, to
the extent that Germany shoulders a substantial portion of the
restructuring responsibility, this could be construed as a
negative.”  Banks and investors had bought or sold a net $16.6 billion
of protection on German bunds as of July 15, compared with $4.8
billion on Treasuries, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp., which runs a central registry for the market.  Smaller Deficit  While Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, is bearing the
brunt of the euro-area bailouts, its finances are in better
shape than the U.S. and the nation is growing faster.  Germany’s budget deficit is 3.3 percent of its economy,
compared with 9.1 percent for America, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Gross domestic product will likely expand
3.4 percent in 2011, versus 2.5 percent for the U.S., based on
the median estimate of at least 25 economists in separate
Bloomberg surveys.  Republicans yesterday prepared to force action on a
shorter-term extension of the U.S. debt limit than President
 Barack Obama  has requested, defying a veto threat amid warnings
that continued stalemate risks roiling financial markets. The
president would veto a measure to raise the debt ceiling if it
doesn’t extend the limit into 2013, White House Chief of Staff
Bill Daley said in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  Less Safe  “The risk to the U.S. credit rating may cause bunds to
outperform,” John Canavan, a fixed-income strategist at Stone &
McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton,  New Jersey , said in
an interview last week. “If we’re not able to pay the bills
we’ve already amassed, then people will be less likely to see
the U.S. as the historical safe haven.”  A default would be the first of its type in U.S. history,
 Steven Hess , the senior credit officer at Moody’s in New York,
wrote in an e-mail last week. The government was late to make
payments on about $122 million of bills in 1979, in part,
because of “severe technical difficulties” that the Treasury
said stemmed from a failure in word-processing equipment, Terry Zivney and Richard Marcus wrote in August 1989 in the “The
Financial Review.”  Bunds to Rally  A deterioration in Europe to the point that  Greece  or
another nation leaves the currency union would cause bunds to
rally, said  David Keeble , the head of interest-rate strategy at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in New York.  “If there’s a hint of a breakup, everyone would flood out
of peripheral countries and into the core,” Keeble said in an
interview last week. “Countries would be a lot weaker. You
would want to keep your money in bunds, so you would see a move
downward in yields.”  Greece may be joined by Portugal and Ireland in asking for
a second bailout, Moody’s said this month after cutting the
nations’ credit ratings to junk. Italian and Spanish 10-year
bond yields exceeded 6 percent in July, within 1 percentage
point of the level that triggered rescues for Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal .  Merkel is committing more German money to ensure the EU
holds together, though 61 percent of the nation’s citizens are
opposed to granting Greece partial debt relief and 56 percent
said the euro has mainly brought them disadvantages, N24
television reported July 21, citing a poll it commissioned from
Emnid GmbH.  “Europe is unthinkable without the euro,” Merkel told
reporters July 22 in Berlin.  ‘Worst Case Scenario’  The euro has weakened 1.22 percent the past month, trimming
its gain for the year to 0.78 percent, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track a currency’s
performance against a basket of nine others, including the
dollar and yen.  To deal with the “worst case scenario” of contagion
spreading to Italy or Spain, European leaders should almost
triple the size of the rescue fund under the European Stability
Mechanism to 2 trillion euros, said Paolo Manasse, an economics
professor at University of Bologna.  Under that scenario, Germany could be liable for as much as
540 billion euros of loans and guarantees, equivalent to about
22 percent of its 2010 gross domestic product.  The cost to Germany would be even greater under a proposal
to issue common euro area bonds, according to Mohit Kumar, head
of euro-region and U.K. interest-rate strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG in  London .  Declining Demand  “Common euro bonds would be an ideal solution, but it will
definitely raise borrowing costs of AAA countries like Germany
and France,” he said. Every extra 75 billion euros in AAA debt
could push bond yields up by 30 basis points, he said.  Germany hasn’t received enough bids for all the bonds
offered at auctions three times this year and six times in 2010.
Unsold bonds are kept by the Bundesbank and released to the
market in the following days and weeks.  Demand fell at a German auction of 10-year bunds on July
13, the day after Ireland was downgraded to below investment
grade. Bids totaled 1.2 times the amount of securities offered,
the lowest so-called bid-to-cover ratio this year. Speculative
grade bonds are rated below BBB- by S&P and less than Baa3 by
Moody’s.  Debt Sales  The  U.S. Treasury  attracted higher-than-average demand at
three note and bond auctions totaling $66 billion in the week
ended July 15.  Investors bid for 3.22 times the amount of securities
offered at a sale of three-year notes on July 12, up from an
average of 3.14 for the past 10 auctions. The bid-to-cover ratio
was 3.17 at the 10-year note offering the following day, rising
from an average of 3.11. The measure was 2.8 for the 30-year
bond auction on July 14, higher than the 2.64 average.  “Treasuries will retain the safe-haven status even with a
downgrade because it still remains the world’s lone
superpower,” said Gary Pollack, a  money manager  who helps
oversee $12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche
Bank Private Wealth Management in New York. “The dollar is
still the world’s reserve currency. We’re still the wealthiest
nation. Our  bond market  is still the largest and most liquid,
and there’s no competition from a global point of view.”  The $9.3 trillion Treasury market may even rally in a U.S.
default as stocks, mortgage debt and corporate bonds will likely
be the first to decline as investors ditch risky assets,
according to Thomson at Ignis.  “If anything, Treasuries will become even more of a safe
haven in that situation,” said Thomson. “There aren’t that
many alternatives for this market in terms of depth. Where else
would China be able to park $1.2 trillion of its money?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  