-- 
Cadel Evans Puts Australia on Cycling Map With Tour de France Race Victory

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-25T04:34:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/cadel-evans-puts-australia-on-cycling-map-with-tour-de-france-race-victory.html
Cadel Evans ’s Tour de France victory
marked Australia’s arrival as a major player in world cycling,
officials and former riders said, as his breakthrough win drew
comparisons with the country’s greatest sporting feats.  Evans, 34, became the first southern-hemisphere champion in
the sport’s most-prestigious race yesterday, winning the 21-
stage event by 1 minute, 34 seconds. He’s the third non-European
in 108 years to take the yellow jersey home after  Greg LeMond 
and  Lance Armstrong  of the U.S.  “This has put us on the map,” Graham Fredericks, Cycling
Australia’s chief executive officer, said yesterday at the Bike
& Lifestyle Show in Sydney. “We’re here to tell the Europeans
and the North Americans that  Australia ’s here to play
seriously.”  With his victory, Evans joined cricketer Donald Bradman,
swimmer Dawn Fraser and the 1983 America’s Cup-winning sailing
crew of Australia II among Australia’s greatest sporting
champions,  Melbourne ’s Age newspaper said in an opinion piece.  Sydney’s  Daily Telegraph  ranked Evans’s win second amongst
the country’s sporting achievements behind  Rod Laver ’s sweeps of
tennis’s four Grand Slam titles in 1962 and 1969.  Evans earned the right to wear the yellow jersey into Paris
after overcoming a 57-second deficit to  Andy Schleck  of
Luxembourg in a time-trial on the next-to-last day. He crossed
the finish line yesterday following a 59-mile ride from Creteil
in which the leading cyclists, abiding by tradition, didn’t
compete for places in the overall standings.  The nation of 22.6 million people, of whom 2 million cycle
regularly according to Cycling Australia, has been sending
riders to the Tour de  France  since about 1911, said Stephen
Hodge, a vice president of the Sydney-based governing body who
rode in six Tours in the 1980s and 1990s.  ‘100 Years in Making’  “This win is 100 years in the making and Cadel’s done it
for us,” Hodge said. “If anyone was going to do it from
Australia, he’s always been the guy who would do it.”  Evans, who divides his time between homes in  Switzerland 
and Barwon Heads, Australia, started as a mountain biker and won
World Cup series in 1998 and 1999 before switching to a road
bike. He says his 5-foot-8 frame made him “completely
unsuitable” for most Australian school sports because they
required speed, size or both.  “It’s strange that I could become a professional
athlete,” Evans, the great grandson of a Welsh immigrant to
Australia’s Northern Territory, says on his  website .  Evans isn’t likely to return to Australia until the end of
October after the European season ends, Cycling Australia’s
Fredericks said. In the meantime, officials plan to capitalize
on his time in the spotlight to lift the sport’s profile.  Corporate Interest  “The corporate market out there is showing a lot more
interest and this will certainly help,” Fredericks said in an
interview. “We have to be very focused and structured, it’s no
use just taking a lump of cash out of a spike in interest and
stuffing it. We’ve got to make sure that we’re delivering and
that we’re giving good value for it.”  Evans’s ride to victory on the Champs-Elysees yesterday was
the most-watched  Tour de France  stage in Australian television
history with a peak of almost 2.5 million viewers nationally,
according to SBS, which has been broadcasting the race for 21
years. Stages typically finish between 1 a.m. and 2 a.m. local
time on Australia’s east coast.  “There’s no doubt Cadel’s win will have a huge impact on
the future growth of the sport in Australia,” Ken Shipp, SBS’s
head of sport, said in a statement.  At the Bike & Lifestyle Show in Sydney yesterday, the BMC
Racing Team stand was among the most popular as patrons flocked
to get a glimpse of Evans’s bike and purchase replica jerseys.  Russia, Guadeloupe  “As many as we can pull out of the bag, they’re walking
out the door,” Chris Thomas,  BMC ’s licensee in Australia, said
in an interview. “Cadel’s victory will mean a greater profile
for cycling in Australia, which for me as a member of the
cycling community is as big a win as it is for the brand.”  Evans’s triumph shows the sport is expanding outside  Europe 
and will boost popularity and lure sponsors from Australia and
 Asia , according to Daniel Malbranque, former general secretary
of the riders’ association.  Katusha, backed by OAO Gazprom, fielded the first all-
Russian team at the Tour de France. Also this year, Guadeloupe’s
Yohann Gene of French team Europcar was the first black entrant
in the race, reported L’Equipe newspaper, whose parent company
Groupe Amaury owns the Tour. An Australian squad called
GreenEDGE is seeking a license for top-tier events in 2012.  Tour Down Under  “Cycling is not just about Europe anymore,” Malbranque
said in an interview from Perpignan, France. “The money is in
Asia, not Europe.”  In 2008, Australia’s Tour Down Under became the first race
outside Europe to join the Aigle, Switzerland-based Union
Cycliste Internationale’s  World Tour . Last week, the governing
body and the Tour de France organizer announced details of the
inaugural Oct. 5-9 Tour of Beijing.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if we see the first presence from
 China  at the Tour de France soon,” Brian Cookson, a member of
the UCI management committee, said in an interview.  Evans, who overcame previous injury setbacks and runner-up
disappointments to take the yellow jersey south of the equator
for the first time, is a popular winner, Malbranque added.  “He’s a human champion,” he said, adding the Australian
had frequently made reference to his former Italian trainer Aldo
Sassi who died from cancer last year. “He’s a champion who
knows how to cry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  