-- 
California’s Governor Brown Vows to ‘Crush’ Renewable-Energy Opposition

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-07-25T19:23:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/california-governor-vows-to-crush-renewable-energy-opposition-in-state.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown  said
his state would become a world leader in solar power by
implementing his  campaign pledge  to produce 20,000 megawatts of
renewable energy in the state by 2020.  The 73-year-old Democrat said that while Germany and China
may lead in total power garnered from the sun, California would
be the most productive in that category in the U.S.  “We’re in a very real sector here; it’s like the
beginnings of the computer industry,” in which California
entrepreneurs such as William Hewlett and  Steve Jobs  played a
critical role, Brown said today at a conference on renewable
energy at the University of California  Los Angeles .  Brown on July 22 asked a federal court to dismiss a request
for an injunction sought by opponents of a 370-megawatt solar
power plant in the Mojave desert that environmentalists say will
harm native tortoises.  “There’s technical problems, there’s financial problems,
regulatory problems, there’s coordination problems,” Brown said
of the challenges his energy plan faces. “When local
communities try to block the installation of photovoltaic, we
act to overcome the opposition. Some kinds of opposition you
have to crush.”  Creating Jobs  Brown said during his campaign last year that his “green-
energy jobs program” would create more than a half-million new
positions for a state with an 11.8 percent unemployment rate in
June.  California legislators passed an $85.9 billion general-fund
budget last month, a process that occupied much of Brown’s time
during his first six months in office.  Texas , the nation’s second-largest state by population,
created 165,000 jobs in the past three years, while California
lost 1.15 million, Republican Assemblyman Dan Logue said in
April.  “People talk about Texas -- they don’t have any
regulations, they don’t have any taxes, the people work
virtually for nothing,” Brown said. “Whatever amount of oil
they have in Texas, we have a hell of a lot more sun right here
in California.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 