-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls as U.S. Heat Wave Becomes Stale News

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-25T21:09:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/canadian-natural-gas-falls-as-u-s-heat-wave-becomes-stale-news.html
Canadian natural gas fell as traders
lost interest in hot weather driving the price.  Canadian gas prices, which usually follow their U.S.
counterparts on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , dropped 1.4
percent as MDA EarthSat Weather of Gaithersburg, Maryland,
forecast temperatures 5 to 7 degrees Fahrenheit (3 to 4 Celsius)
above normal from Texas to the Great Lakes and mid-Atlantic
coast, continuing a wave of heat that has lasted for about two
weeks.  “The market reverts back whenever the fundamentals get
stale,” Guy Gleichmann, owner of Wavelength Energy CTA in
Pompano,  Florida , said in a telephone interview. “The heat
factor is the big issue, but those headlines have played out.”  Alberta gas for August delivery declined 4.75 cents to
C$3.43 per gigajoule ($3.44 per million British thermal units)
as of 4:50 p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX , a Canadian
Internet market. Gas traded on the exchange goes to users in
Canada and the U.S. and is priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta
system.  Natural gas for August delivery fell 1.3 cents to settle at
$4.386 per million Btu on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Power plants  use 30 percent of U.S. gas supplies, according
to the Energy Department.  Temperatures in  Dallas  today reached 104 degrees, 7 above
normal, according to AccuWeather Inc. of  State College ,
Pennsylvania.  Moderating Heat  “While still plenty hot, compared to last week’s record-
breaking heat this next round should be less impressive, with
just some borderline ‘much-aboves’ present for a couple of
days,” Travis Hartman, a meteorologist at MDA EarthSat, said in
a note to clients. “Barring any unforeseen storminess, the
streak of 100-degree-plus Fahrenheit days in Dallas should
continue into this time frame, as extreme dryness continues to
further enhance the heat.”  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta  system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.7 billion cubic
feet as of 3 p.m. in New York.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.45 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.68 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 965 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.79 billion cubic feet today, about 65 percent of its
capacity of 2.76 billion.  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near Chicago
fell 1.79 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $4.5387 per million Btu as
of 1:50 p.m. New York time on the Intercontinental Exchange.
Alliance is an express line that can carry 1.5 billion cubic
feet a day to the Midwest from western  Canada .  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas dropped 0.83 cent, or 0.2 percent, to $4.1419.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 