-- 
Canadian Solar Names Potter Second Finance Chief in Nine Months

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-07-25T17:49:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/canadian-solar-names-potter-cfo-raises-second-quarter-shipment-guidance.html
Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , a Chinese solar
panel maker, named its second chief financial officer in nine
months and increased its board from four to five.  Michael G. Potter, an independent director of Canadian
Solar since September 2007, was named senior vice president and
finance chief, effective July 20, Suzhou, China-based Canadian
Solar said today in a statement. Weiwen “Andrew” Chen, who
became CFO in October, is leaving to pursue “a new challenge,”
Canadian Solar said.  The brief tenure of Chen increases the company’s risk
profile, Jonathan Dorsheimer, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity
Inc. in  Boston , said in a research note today. Dorsheimer has
had a $9 price target and a “hold” rating on the stock.  A chartered accountant, Potter was CFO of  San Jose ,
California-based optical components maker NeoPhotonics Corp. and
before that senior vice president and CFO of Stats ChipPac Inc.,
a semiconductor assembly and test services company based in
 Singapore , according to the statement. Potter previously held a
variety of executive positions at  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ,
it said.  The shares dropped 2.4 percent to $9.40 at 1:40 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading in  New York . They’ve slumped 30
percent since the end of October.  Some are categorizing this as yet another CFO departure in
an industry facing cyclical headwinds,  said Jesse Pichel,
managing director of cleantech equity research at Jefferies
Group Inc. in New York, in an interview today. “However, this
doesn’t address that this CFO has many years of semiconductor
experience and is native English speaking.” Pichel has an $11
price target and a “hold” recommendation on the stock.  Expanded Board  Calls for comment to Ed Job, Suzhou-based director of
 investor relations  at Canadian Solar, weren’t answered after
business hours.  The company also said today that it added Harry Ruda to its
board of directors, raising the number of members to five from
four. Ruda, director of the Centre for Advanced Nanotechnology,
is a professor of applied science and engineering at the
 University of Toronto .  The company increased its guidance for second-quarter
shipments to 295 megawatts from as much as 255 megawatts, it
said today. Gross margin will be at the lower end of the 13
percent to 15 percent forecast because of a more outside cell
purchases, it said.  Both the revised forecasts and the new CFO are positive
catalysts for the stock, said Ivan Lee, analyst at Nomura
International Hong Kong Ltd., in a research note today.  Lee maintained his “neutral” recommendation, awaiting
“more evidence of further improvements in execution in cost
reduction, new technology introductions and market share
gains,” he said in the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in London at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  