-- 
Canon Raises Full-Year Profit Outlook on Lower-Than-Expected Quake Impact

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-07-25T08:56:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/canon-raises-full-year-net-income-estimate-18-increases-sales-forecast.html
Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest
camera maker, raised its profit forecast on higher sales and a
lower-than-expected impact from Japan’s strongest earthquake.  Full year net income may total 260 billion yen ($3.3
billion), 18 percent higher than the company’s April prediction,
it said in a statement today. Canon also increased its forecasts
for revenue, operating profit and sales of single-lens reflex
cameras used by professionals.  Canon lowered the estimated impact from the March 11
earthquake and tsunami on sales by 37 percent to 197.4 billion
yen this year after the maker of EOS digital cameras resumed
work at all its factories in June and suppliers try to speed up
recovery. Japan’s exports last month fell less than economists
expected as a decline in auto shipments slowed, underscoring the
recovery of the world’s third-largest economy.  “Canon is among Japanese manufacturers that are recovering
production faster than expected,” said Koji Toda, chief  fund
manager  at Resona Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “The company probably put
in a lot of effort to bring all its factories back into
operation.”  Full-year sales may be 3.78 trillion yen, compared with an
earlier forecast for 3.73 trillion yen, according to the
statement. Operating profit may be 380 billion yen, compared
with 335 billion yen forecast earlier.  Professional Cameras  The company’s shares were unchanged at 3,785 yen at the 3
p.m. close in Tokyo trading. They have fallen 10 percent this
year. Fourteen of the 23 analysts tracking the company in the
past year recommend investors “buy” the stock while nine have
“hold” ratings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Net income in the three months ended in June declined 20
percent to 53.9 billion yen. That beat the 15.6 billion yen
average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Operating profit tumbled 31 percent to 78.4 billion yen, also
beating estimates.  Canon raised the forecast for sales of cameras with
interchangeable lenses, typically used by professionals, to 7.3
million units from 7 million predicted earlier. The forecast for
sales of compact cameras was kept unchanged at 20 million units.  Interchangeable Lenses  Demand for high-end cameras including models with
interchangeable lenses is robust in  China , Toshizo Tanaka, Canon
executive vice president, told reporters in Tokyo.  India  is
another region that may drive camera sales this year, he said.  Global shipments of digital-cameras tumbled 7 percent in
units and 17 percent in value during the first five months from
a year earlier, according to the  Camera & Imaging Products
Association .  Profit at Canon’s consumer products operations, which makes
cameras and inkjet printers, decreased 32 percent to 45.3
billion yen in the quarter to June 30.  Income at the office-equipment division, Canon’s biggest,
dropped 29 percent to 59.8 billion yen in the quarter as revenue
fell 11 percent. This division makes copiers and multifunction
printers.  “Production at most of our factories returned to pre-
earthquake level at the end of June,” said Tanaka. The company
foresees little impact from power-supply shortages this fiscal
year as Canon has taken measures at its plants and offices such
as adding generators, he said.  Stronger Yen  Canon, which generated 81 percent of sales outside  Japan 
last year, revised its assumptions for the yen exchange rate to
the euro to 115 yen for the six months from July 1, compared
with 120 yen projected three months ago. The company also
revised its assumption for the dollar at 80 yen from 85 yen
estimated in April.  The world’s second-largest printer maker may lose about
10.2 billion yen of operating profit in the fiscal second-half
for every 1 yen decline in the value of the dollar and 5.3
billion yen of income for each 1 yen decline by the euro, the
company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  