-- 
India Central Bank Signals Higher Interest Rates on Outlook for Inflation

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-07-25T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/central-bank-says-taming-inflation-is-unfinished-task-as-pressure-persists.html
India ’s central bank said curbing
inflation remains an “unfinished task” even as economic
growth slows, signaling it may raise  interest rates  today.  “The policy exigency at this juncture warrants
continuation of anti-inflationary stance,” the  Reserve Bank
of India  said in a  report  yesterday before its policy meeting
in Mumbai. The RBI cited a high share of production capacity
in use, risk of a “wage-price spiral” and “stickiness” in
food costs adding to price pressures.  The report followed signs of a clash between economists
and bond traders over whether the RBI would keep increasing
borrowing costs after today’s projected move     of a quarter
point in the benchmark rate. Swap traders last week bet that
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao was approaching the end of India’s
fastest credit tightening since 1974.  “The hawkishness of the RBI’s comments suggests that
it’s nowhere near changing its stance,” said Dipankar Mitra,
an economist at Motilal Oswal Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “As
long as inflation is uncomfortably high, it won’t give the
central bank room to look anywhere else.”  The RBI is scheduled to release its monetary-policy
announcement at 11 a.m. today. Subbarao, who raised borrowing
costs 10 times since mid-March 2010, may boost the repurchase
rate to 7.75 percent from 7.5 percent, according to 20 of 22
economists in a Bloomberg survey, with the remaining two
predicting no change.  Bond Yields  The yield on the 7.8 percent government bonds due April
2021 fell 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.29
percent in Mumbai yesterday, on speculation the central bank
will slow the pace of rate increases as debt uncertainties in
the U.S. threaten the global recovery.  Yesterday’s RBI report cited risks to world growth,
including from the European debt crisis, and pointed to
business surveys that have shown evidence of a moderation in
the economy. At the same time, the RBI said “it is important
to break” the dynamics sustaining inflation pressures.  Motilal’s Mitra expects the inflation rate to stay above
9 percent until October after Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s
government increased diesel costs in June for the first time
in a year to cut subsidies and narrow losses at state-run
refiners including Indian Oil Corp.  BRICS Inflation  Price gains in India are the highest among the so-called
BRICS nations. India’s benchmark wholesale-price Inflation
accelerated to 9.44 percent in June. By comparison, consumer
prices rose 6.7 percent in  Brazil , 9.4 percent in  Russia , 6.4
percent in China and 5 percent in  South Africa .  “Inflation pressures are still rising,”  Abheek Barua ,
New Delhi-based chief economist at HDFC Bank Ltd., said
before the report. “A rate hike is almost certain.”  India will take several months to reduce inflation to
“an acceptable level” of 5 percent to 6 percent and the
rate increases haven’t hurt the economy,  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , the deputy chairman of India’s Planning Commission,
said in a July 19 interview in  New Delhi .  The RBI said it will need to maintain a tight stance
until “there is credible evidence of inflation trending
close to a level within the  Reserve Bank ’s comfort zone,”
without specifying a level. It said “high inflation” may
persist between July and September.  Rural Wages  Higher rural wages have both increased the input cost of
agricultural goods and boosted demand for them, keeping food
inflation elevated even as it has slowed, according to the
RBI. A “near normal monsoon” may not ease food inflation,
it said.  The central bank also warns that the government may
overshoot the budget-deficit target, causing monetary policy
effectiveness to “weaken.”  Inflation may average 8.6 percent in the fiscal year
through March 31, according to a survey compiled by the
central bank of forecasts from agencies including the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  Asian Development Bank ,
the report showed. The survey in May projected inflation of
7.5 percent.  Economists downgraded their projections for economic
growth. According to the RBI survey, gross domestic product
is seen rising 7.9 percent in the current financial year,
compared with the previous estimate of 8.2 percent.  Industrial production in India grew 5.6 percent in May,
the weakest pace in nine months. GDP in the South Asian
nation will increase 8.2 percent this year and 7.8 percent in
2012 compared with more than 9 percent each year in  China ,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  