-- 
Chavez Insists Bolivar Murdered Despite Probe

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 
2011-07-25T18:43:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/chavez-insists-bolivar-murdered-despite-probe.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said that he’s still convinced South American liberator  Simon Bolivar  was murdered in 1830 even though an investigation he
commissioned has come up with no evidence of foul play.  “They killed Simon Bolivar,” Chavez said in a telephone
call broadcast by state television. “They murdered him and,
even though I don’t have proof, the circumstances in which he
died point to that.”  Earlier, Vice President Elias Jaua read out a forensic
report that found there was no evidence Bolivar had been
assassinated, nor that his death was caused by tuberculosis as
some history books say.  “The hypothesis many historians had about Bolivar’s death
by poisoning was ruled out,” Jaua said on state television.
“The possibility that he may have consumed medicines that
poisoned him unintentionally remains open.”  Chavez ordered the exhumation of the independence hero’s
remains a year ago to certify their identity and determine the
cause of death. Chavez, who frequently invokes Bolivar in
speeches and talks of fulfilling the liberator’s dream of
uniting the continent as one state, made a surprise return to
Caracas from chemotherapy treatment in Cuba in time to celebrate
yesterday’s 228th anniversary of Bolivar’s birth.  The socialist leader, who is suffering from an undisclosed
form of cancer, said today he is trying to reverse “two
centuries of lies” and denied claims by “bourgeois
historians” that he is trying to alter historical events to fit
his political agenda.  Changing History  “Some people say we are trying to change history, to alter
history,” he said. “It’s they who altered it. The alteration
of history began early, even before Bolivar died.”  Letters in which Bolivar spoke of his desire to re-enter
politics are proof that he was healthy around the time of his
death and may have been poisoned by his political enemies,
Chavez said.  In July last year, the former paratrooper wrote several
messages on his  Twitter account  describing the 3 a.m. exhumation
from a mausoleum in Caracas.  “I tell you: that glorious skeleton must be Bolivar
because you can feel its flame,” Chavez wrote.  Chavez has said he believes Bolivar was poisoned by
Colombian oligarchs. Bolivar, who liberated  Venezuela ,  Colombia ,
 Ecuador ,  Peru  and  Bolivia , died in Santa Marta, Colombia
complaining that his attempts to unify the continent had been
like “plowing the waves.”  The investigation, headed by Spanish forensics expert Jose
Antonio Lorente of the University of Granada, was able to prove
that the exhumed bones belonged to Bolivar, Jaua said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  