-- 
Chilean Stocks: Falabella, Gener, Molymet Gain; Cap and Lan Fall

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-25T20:57:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/chilean-stocks-aes-gener-gains-cap-and-lan-airlines-fall.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in Chilean trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 4:33 p.m. New York time.  The Ipsa index fell 0.2 percent to 4,620.54.  AES Gener SA (GENER)  ,  Chile ’s second-largest power
generator by installed capacity, rose 0.4 percent to 281.61
pesos. The unit of Arlington, Virginia-based AES Corp. may post
a 63 percent increase in second-quarter profits, Santiago-based
brokerage firm Celfin Capital SA wrote today in an e-mailed note
to clients.  Cap SA (CAP)   fell 1.9 percent to 21,622 pesos. Chile’s
largest steelmaker and iron miner dropped in line with the price
of base metals, which retreated on concern the U.S. may default
after lawmakers failed to agree on raising the debt ceiling.  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)   fell 0.1 percent to 13,148 pesos.
 Latin America ’s largest airline by market value is expected to
report “relatively weak margins” for the second quarter due to
higher  oil prices , the integration of Colombian carrier Aires
and a volcano eruption in southern Chile, Bank of America Corp.
analysts Sara Delfim and Robert Otero wrote today in a note to
clients. Lan will report results tomorrow after the market
closes.  Molibdenos & Metales SA (MOLYMET CC) rose 2.7 percent to
8,951.1 pesos, the biggest gain since July 15. The world’s
largest molybdenum processor was initiated at “buy” at
Santiago-based brokerage IM Trust SA Corredores de Bolsa.  SACI Falabella (FALAB)   rose 2.2 percent to 4,730.7 pesos
for the biggest gain in two weeks. The country’s largest
retailer by market value led advances in the industry “as its
current price represents a buying opportunity and it should
expect strong second-quarter results,” Gustavo Fingeret, an
analyst at Santiago-based brokerage Celfin Capital SA, said in a
phone interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  