-- 
China’s Stocks Fall Most in Six Months on Train Crash, U.S. Debt

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-25T07:25:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/china-s-stocks-decline-on-u-s-debt-concerns-chinese-bullet-train-crash.html
China ’s stocks fell the most in six
months as railway shares plunged after a deadly bullet-train
accident, while a political stalemate over the U.S. debt limit
boosted concern the world’s biggest economy will default.  CSR Corp. and China CNR Corp., the nation’s biggest train
makers, tumbled more than 8 percent after the weekend train
collision killed at least 36 people and prompted the government
to order a rail safety inspection. China Vanke Co. led declines
for developers as Credit Suisse Group AG said the accident may
damp demand for real estate in cities along new railway lines.  “The train crash may trigger an investment cut in railway
construction,” said Tu Jun, a strategist at Shanghai Securities
Co. “The failure to reach agreement on the U.S. federal debt
limit is hurting investors’ confidence in the economic recovery.
All the weekend news is bad for stocks.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slumped 82 points, or 3 percent, to
2,688.75 at the 3 p.m. close, the most since Jan. 17. The
measure dropped 1.8 percent last week, the first decline in five
weeks. The Shanghai index has slumped 4.3 percent this year,
compared with a 0.8 percent retreat for the MSCI Emerging-
Markets Index, on concern the government’s efforts to curb
inflation will hurt economic growth.  The central bank has raised  interest rates  five times and
the reserve-requirement ratio 12 times since the start of 2010
to stem inflation. Consumer prices rose 6.4 percent in June, the
fastest pace in three years, as food costs increased.  Train Stocks  CSR plunged 8.9 percent to 6.04 yuan, its lowest close
since Oct. 29. China CNR dropped 9.7 percent to 5.87 yuan, the
most since its listing in December 2009. Gem-Year Industrial
Co., which makes carriage components, fell by the 10 percent
daily limit to 16.65 yuan.  China ordered a two-month inspection of rail safety and
fired three officials after at least 36 people were killed in a
high-speed train crash two days ago near the eastern city of
Wenzhou. The collision will slow the pace of railway
construction, according to Guotai Junan Securities Co. The
growth of equipment companies will be affected, it said. The
railway ministry will postpone auctions for equipment, Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co. analysts said, cutting their stock ratings
for CSR and CNR to “neutral.”  China Vanke, the nation’s largest developer by market
value, slid 3.3 percent to 8.14 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co.
slipped 4.6 percent to 10.23 yuan.  The train accident, along with “constant malfunctioning”
of the Beijing-Shanghai bullet train, may damp demand for
property in cities along new railway lines, Credit Suisse said.  Land sales in “several” cities along the new Beijing-
Shanghai high-speed railway line surged in 2009 and 2010,
analysts including Jinsong Du wrote in a report.  Global Economy  U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  told Republicans that
there’s no agreement on a plan for raising the ceiling before a
default threatened for Aug. 2. A Republican congressional
official said Boehner, speaking by telephone to lawmakers, is
reporting that discussions are continuing. The impasse has
boosted the chance S&P will cut the U.S. credit rating from AAA
within three months to 50 percent, the company said July 21.  China needn’t take the risk of a U.S. default seriously as
politicians in  Washington  will reach a deal on the debt limit in
the end, said  Zhu Baoliang , chief economist at the State
Information Center, a state-backed research organization in
Beijing under the National Development and Reform Commission.  Although the stalemate in the talks over the debt limit is
“not good news for big creditors such as China and  Japan ,
there’s not much they can do,” Zhu said in a telephone
interview with Bloomberg News today.  Greece  Crisis  Commodity producers also dropped on concern debt crises in
U.S. and  Europe  will hurt the global economic recovery.
PetroChina Co., the nation’s largest oil producer, lost 2.1
percent to 10.36 yuan, the lowest close since Sept. 30. Jiangxi
Copper Co., the biggest copper producer, slid 2.5 percent to
34.85 yuan.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s sovereign credit
rating by three steps today, saying the European Union’s
financing package for the debt-laden nation implies
“substantial economic losses” for private creditors.  --Irene Shen. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  