-- 
Fake Apple Stores Crop Up on China Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-25T10:31:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/china-finds-five-unauthorized-apple-stores-in-kunming-city-shuts-two.html
Chinese authorities shut two
unauthorized  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  stores in Kunming for operating without
business licenses, a newspaper run by the southwestern city’s
government reported.  Investigators also examined three other stores that used
Apple’s logo without the company’s permission, though they were
found to have operating permits, according to the Dushi Shibao
newspaper report posted today on the Kunming government’s
website. The findings were part of a probe into more than 300
electronics vendors in the city, according to the report.  The move comes about a week after the “ BirdAbroad ” blog
began posting photographs of a fake Apple store complete with an
acrylic staircase and crew of blue-shirted sales staff, showing
the extent some dealers will go to profit from booming demand
for iPhones and iPads. The company’s network of more than 900
retail outlets has failed to keep up with demand, forcing
customers to buy from vendors not sanctioned by Apple.  “In areas outside of the biggest cities, it’s difficult to
find Apple products, and there is strong demand,” said Jim Tang,
a technology analyst at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. in
 Shanghai . “For a big country like China, Apple’s sales network
doesn’t go far enough, and the company needs to expand.”  The city government hasn’t received any requests from Apple
on the matter, and the company declined to comment on the
findings, according to the report.  ‘Doing Apple a Favor’  Yu Cheng, who owns three stores selling authentic Apple
products in Kunming without the company’s permission, isn’t
violating any Chinese laws and is actually “doing Apple a
favor,” Deng Hai, a lawyer with the Sichuan Law Offices
representing the businessman, said in an interview. Yu’s stores
haven’t been ordered to shut, Deng said.  Yu, who wants to become a legitimate part of the Cupertino,
California-based company’s network, has applied for permission
to use the Apple logo and sell the company’s products, Deng said.
Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment on Yu and his stores.  Xinhua News Agency, citing an unidentified worker at the
municipal industrial and commercial department, reported July 23
that Kunming officials had started inspecting local electronics
shops. Inspectors will examine business licenses, permits
authorizing brand use and purchasing channels, the official news
service reported.  ‘Negative Impact’  “The authorities should stop these fake stores from
operating and selling whatever they want,” said Xie Yonglin, an
employee at Nanfang Yuan, one of Kunming’s authorized Apple
sales agents. The unauthorized stores “have a negative impact
on our products and brands.”  Apple operates four stores in  China , all in Beijing and
Shanghai, and has more than 900 authorized sales agents. It also
has a distribution agreement with carrier partner China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd. Apple’s stores in Beijing and Shanghai generate,
on average, the company’s highest traffic and revenue, Chief
Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  said in January.  Still, the lack of stores is driving some Chinese consumers
to unauthorized sellers. Only 53 percent of the 1.07 million
Apple iPads sold in China last quarter were through vendors
sanctioned by Apple, according to research firm Analysys
International.  “The Chinese are suckers for iPhones and iPads, just like
everybody else,” said Paul French, founder of Shanghai-based
market research company Access Asia. “Apple should police their
supply chain a bit better.”  Passing Lenovo  By comparison,  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , China’s biggest personal-
computer maker, said last year it has more than 10,000 outlets
in the country, and Nokia said it had more than 100,000 sales
points.  A smaller distribution network hasn’t hindered demand for
Apple’s products. The U.S. company’s revenue in China,  Taiwan 
and Hong Kong climbed six times to $3.8 billion in the quarter
ended June 25, Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  said last week.
Apple’s sales last quarter for the region may have surpassed
Lenovo’s for the first time in at least a decade, according to
four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Yu opened two stores in Kunming in June and another this
month. New hires have four days of training on how to make the
outlets look and feel like an Apple store, said a manager at the
Wu Cheng Road shop, who only identified himself by his surname,
He.  ‘Simple’ to Copy  On the morning of July 23, a group of five new employees
took notes as He showed them how to angle signs on a large
wooden table as they would be at an Apple store.  “An Apple store is one of the easiest stores to do; that’s
the genius of it,” French said. “It’s so simple. It’s just
like a school chemistry lab.”  Yu’s stores buy iPhones, iPads and iPods from authorized
dealers and sell them at the same prices listed on Apple’s
website, said He, the manager at the Wu Cheng Road shop. Margins
are low, he said.  Nanfang Yuan, the authorized Apple reseller, operates a
stall with fewer than half-a-dozen counters displaying products
inside a larger mall that specializes in electronics.  Yu’s largest outlet is a two-floor, stand-alone store on
Zhengyi Road, Kunming’s busiest shopping area, near shops
selling Calvin Klein Inc. and  Nike Inc. (NKE)  products.  ‘Right to Invest’  Yu has “the right to invest in as many stores as he wants,
as long as he is not breaking the law,” Deng said. If the
stores in Kunming are profitable, Yu may open similar outlets
elsewhere, Deng said. Yu declined to be interviewed.  The Chinese market is a “substantial opportunity,” Cook
said last week. The nation’s economy, the world’s second-biggest,
grew 9.5 percent in the second quarter.  China is also one of 12 countries on the “priority watch
list” of the U.S. Trade Representative, according to a May
report on intellectual property rights. Apple didn’t open its
first store in the nation until 2008.  “I don’t care if it’s authorized or not, as long as it’s
the real product,”  Li Yang , a 32-year-old employee of a local
 software company , said as she shopped at one of Yu’s stores. “I
am a customer and I don’t want to wait until they open a store
in Kunming.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  