-- 
Citadel Requests Meeting, Says E*Trade ‘Failed’ in Response

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-07-25T20:28:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/citadel-requests-special-meeting-again-after-e-trade-response.html
Citadel LLC, the biggest shareholder
of E*Trade Financial Corp., said the online brokerage’s decision
to hire Morgan Stanley isn’t sufficient in addressing plans for
a strategic review and called again for a special meeting.  E*Trade’s plan to have Morgan Stanley report to the board’s
Finance and Risk Oversight Committee is “manifestly
inappropriate” because most members are part of the company
management or legacy directors, who “have failed” shareholders
in the past, according to a July 22 regulatory filing received
today.  Ken Griffin ’s Chicago-based hedge fund is also calling
for two directors, Michael Parks and Donna Weaver, to be
removed.  “Once again, E*Trade’s board has failed to act in
shareholders’ best interests,” Citadel wrote in a letter to the
brokerage today. “Your response to our July 20 letter further
demonstrates the board’s entrenchment and the lengths to which
members of the board will go to maintain the status quo to the
detriment of shareholders.”  In a letter last week, Citadel called on the company to
perform a review of strategic alternatives, including a sale of
the company. The online brokerage, whose shares have fallen 94
percent in four years, responded to its request to address those
“catastrophic losses” by deciding to retain  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
after saying that JPMorgan Chase & Co. completed a strategic
review in 2010. The company, which has counted Griffin as a
board member since June 2009, said it wouldn’t call a meeting.  Second Review  “Requests from Citadel come from one who is likely
knowledgeable of these issues,”  Richard Repetto , a New York-
based analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, wrote in a
note today, referring to Griffin. “Clearly we can deduce he was
dissatisfied with JPMorgan’s work in asking for a second
investment banking review as well as with Michael Parks, who
chairs the FROC and who Citadel has asked to be removed from the
board.”  E*Trade shares climbed 5.6 percent to $16.52 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  today. Last week, they surged 21 percent, the biggest
weekly gain since June 2009, after Citadel’s first letter.  Citadel asked today for a special meeting to be held no
sooner than 10 days and no later than 60 days after E*Trade
receives notice from holders of 10 percent of the company. At
the meeting, shareholders would vote on removing some board
members and hiring an investment bank to help arrange a sale.
E*Trade would be required to call a meeting once investors
owning 10 percent of the company request one. Citadel owns about
9.8 percent of the New York-based company.  Special Meeting  “Given Citadel’s 9.8 percent ownership stake and the
likely participation of other owners, it will be possible for
them to call a special meeting of shareholders,” Chris Allen, a
New York-based analyst with Evercore Partners Inc., wrote in a
note today.  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , the biggest independent U.S.
brokerage by assets, and TD Ameritrade Holding Corp., the third
largest, are the most likely buyers, according to Sandler
O’Neill’s Repetto and Patrick O’Shaughnessy, an analyst for
 Raymond James  in  Chicago . Directors of TD Ameritrade plan to
hold a meeting tomorrow to discuss the possibility of buying
E*Trade, the Wall Street Journal said, citing people familiar
with the matter.  “It has long been our practice to not comment on any rumor
or speculation in the marketplace,” said Kim Hillyer, a
spokeswoman for TD Ameritrade. “Our board of directors is
meeting this week for their regularly scheduled quarterly
meeting. Strategic matters are discussed by the board on a
regular basis, but it would be inappropriate for me to comment
further on specific topics -- hypothetical or otherwise.”  Greg Gable , a spokesman for San Francisco-based  Charles
Schwab , declined to comment Friday on deal speculation regarding
E*Trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  