-- 
Citigroup Names Adams, Drury as Capital Markets Co-Heads

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-07-25T22:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/citigroup-names-adams-drury-to-help-lead-equity-capital-markets.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. bank by assets, promoted Doug Adams and Philip Drury to co-
heads of  equity capital markets  for the Americas.  Adams and Drury will report to Richard Zogheb and John Chirico, co-heads of New York-based bank’s Americas capital
markets origination business, according to an employee memo
today. The memo’s contents were confirmed by Mark Costiglio, a
company spokesman.  Citigroup is overhauling management of its equity capital
markets business to boost performance. Doug Baird, hired from
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in May as vice chairman of Americas equity
capital markets, will lead a five-person “steering team”
including Adams and Drury, as well as Russell Chong and Clayton Hale, who were promoted to new roles.  “Together, this team represents the most experienced on
the street,” Chirico and Zogheb wrote in the memo.  Citigroup jumped to third from eighth among underwriters of
equity sales in the U.S. in the first half of 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm outpaced rivals including
Bank of America and Morgan Stanley as it sold shares for clients
including  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , Pandora Media Inc.,
and  MetLife Inc. (MET) , according to the data.  Drury is head of the Americas equity syndicate business,
which handles sales of newly issued shares, and Adams is an
investment banker focusing on the  energy industry .  Chong, a health-care investment banker, was promoted to
head of growth equity solutions. Hale will head strategic equity
solutions, focusing on “carve-out IPOs, spinoffs, split-offs,”
as well as complex financing for mergers and acquisitions,
according to the memo.  Citigroup fell 35 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $39.91
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  