-- 
Clinton Assures China That U.S. Will Reach Debt Solution

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-25T06:10:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/clinton-assures-china-on-u-s-debt-ceiling.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
reassured China, the top holder of American Treasuries, that the
U.S. will resolve its impasse over the debt ceiling and improve
the country’s long-term fiscal outlook.  “Many have questions about how the  United States  is going
to resolve our debt-ceiling challenge,” Clinton said today in
Hong Kong. The “political wrangling” is part of democratic
problem-solving, she said. “I am confident that Congress will
secure a deal on the debt ceiling and work with President Obama
to take steps to improve our long-term fiscal outlook.”  The top U.S. diplomat made the remarks as talks over the
debt ceiling stalled again in  Washington , sending the value of
the  U.S. dollar  down and gold to record highs. Failure to reach
an agreement before Aug. 2 risks a default and a cut in the
nation’s AAA credit rating. Chinese officials have expressed
confidence that it won’t get to that point.  “They will definitely reach an agreement,” Xia Bin, one of
three advisers to the People’s Bank of  China , said in a
telephone interview with Bloomberg News today.  Characterizing the debt debate as a short-term bump in the
road, Clinton held the U.S. “opportunity society” up as a model
for the Asia-Pacific. Speaking before the American Chamber of
Commerce in Hong Kong, she said that requires attributes that
“characterize healthy economic competition, not just in Asia,
but across the world: open, free, transparent and fair.”  Balancing Economies  Clinton noted that balancing the global economic order will
require changes from both the U.S. and in Asia. While America
must save more and borrow less, she said, Asia must do more to
foster domestic demand.  Her message, delivered on China’s doorstep, is directed at
the world’s second largest economy, its state-owned enterprises
and a government procurement policy that has favored local firms
over foreign competitors, a State Department official told
reporters, speaking on condition of anonymity because he wasn’t
authorized to talk on the record. He emphasized that the message
also applies to other U.S. competitors.  Clinton said that some  developing countries  that are
focused on fighting poverty might be slow to implement at home
the same rules they benefit from abroad. Others “might even
think the rules don’t yet apply to them,” she said.  “All who benefit from open, free, transparent and fair
competition have an interest and a responsibility to follow its
rules,” Clinton said. “Enough of the world’s commerce takes
place with developing nations that leaving them out of the
rules-based system would render that system unworkable --- and
ultimately that would impoverish everyone.”  China SOEs  Clinton referred indirectly to China’s state-owned
enterprises, saying that it is essential to have a level playing
field for all business.  “We seek an open system where a person anywhere can
participate in markets everywhere,” she said.  The Chamber’s China counterpart in April called on China to
open its financial sector to more foreign competition. Business
lobbies in China have also criticized the country’s procurement
rules and other administrative regulations that hinder access to
the country’s market.  Clinton’s remarks reflect her increasing alignment of
economic and  foreign policy . The Secretary has mobilized U.S.
companies to help with development projects and to support
larger foreign policy goals, including the stabilization of
countries such as Iraq and  Afghanistan .  Foreign Policy  In comments around the world to business audiences, Clinton
has repeatedly drawn a link between foreign policy and U.S. jobs
growth, a central issue with unemployment now around 9 percent
and a national election looming next year.  “As we pursue recovery and growth, we are making economics
a priority of our foreign policy,” Clinton said today.
“Increasingly, economic progress depends on strong diplomatic
ties, and diplomatic progress depends on strong economic ties.”  Clinton spoke out against tariffs and regulations that
strangle trade and said the U.S. was hoping to unveil plans for
“genuine free trade zone” in the  Asia  Pacific, the Trans
Pacific Partnership, when Obama hosts the next Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation forum meeting in November.  “There’s a danger of creating a hodgepodge of bilateral
agreements that create new complexities,” she said. “We should
aim for true regional integration, and that is the spirit of the
Trans Pacific Partnership.”  The TPP would go beyond previous free trade agreements by
including protections “for workers, the environment,
intellectual property and innovation,” Clinton said.  ‘Here to Stay’  “We are a resident power in Asia -- not only a diplomatic
or military power, but a resident economic power,” Clinton said.
“And we are here to stay.”  After her speech, Clinton was traveling to Shenzhen to meet
China’s State Councilor Dai Bingguo.  She will discuss  North Korea , and will ask Dai to deliver
the message to the country’s leaders that the U.S. expects to
see progress on nuclear issues before six-party talks can
continue, the State Department official said.  Clinton will also convey messages from Southeast Asian
foreign ministers that she heard during last week’s regional
security forum in Bali,  Indonesia , according to the official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Hong Kong  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  