-- 
Contador Swaps Cycle Team for Lawyers to Defend 2010 Tour de France Title

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-26T15:05:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/contador-swaps-cycle-team-for-lawyers-to-defend-2010-tour-de-france-title.html
Alberto Contador ’s eight teammates
on the Saxo Bank-Sungard squad couldn’t lead him to victory at
this month’s Tour de France. Now it’s up to a smaller crew of
attorneys to try to save his 2010 title.  The  World Anti-Doping Agency  and cycling’s ruling body, the
International Cycling Union or UCI, are appealing the three-time
champion’s acquittal for doping in a hearing at the Court of
Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne,  Switzerland . The hearing,
scheduled for Aug. 1, will be postponed until November to allow
more time for written evidence, CAS said today in an e-mail.  The Spanish cycling federation accepted the 28-year-old’s
defense that he had the banned stimulant, clenbuterol, in his
body because of eating contaminated beef. While the Contador
ruling may be overturned after the three-day hearing, according
to some lawyers, others say sports’ top tribunal is getting more
lenient in cases where athletes argue that their food was
contaminated.  “A positive doping test used to be a death sentence,”
Rodrigo Garcia, a lawyer at Laffer Abogados in Madrid who has
represented cyclists in doping cases, said in a telephone
interview. “There are signs that is changing and the Contador
case could be a turning point.”  Contador finished the Tour de  France  in fifth place two
days ago, 3 minutes, 57 seconds behind  Cadel Evans , the first
Australian winner in the race’s 108-year history. Dani Navarro
and other so-called domestiques on the Saxo Bank-Sungard team
sacrificed to lead Contador up mountains last week, although
after one stage to the Col du Galibier on July 21 the Spaniard
said “his legs didn’t respond.”  Athletes Liable  Contador won’t ride in the Spanish Vuelta this year, the
 Associated Press  reported today. CAS today postponed the
hearing, which will probably be rescheduled for November.  “The second round of written submissions will allow the
parties to complete their evidence and arguments relating to
some specific scientific issues,” CAS said in an e-mailed
statement.  Andy Ramos, a lawyer at Bardaji & Honrado in  Madrid , is
coordinating Contador’s defense and said last October he was
working with “four or five” attorneys including Jean-Louis Dupont, a Belgian who won a landmark case in 1995. That
judgment, dubbed the Bosman ruling after player Jean-Marc
Bosman, allowed soccer players in the European Union to leave on
free transfers once their contracts expired.  Ramos declined to comment when reached last week and Dupont
didn’t return an e-mail.  WADA Rules  Under WADA’s code, athletes are liable if a banned drug is
found in their system, and it’s up to them to prove they didn’t
illegally ingest the substance. Recent rulings show the Swiss
court is putting more pressure on WADA and sports federations to
provide proof of wrongdoing, according to Garcia.  Last week, it backed a ruling not to punish Olympic
champion swimmer Cesar Cielo and two Brazilian compatriots, who
blamed contaminated food supplements for testing positive for
the diuretic furosemide in May. A fourth Brazilian, who had a
previous violation, was suspended. In 2009, the court cleared
French tennis player  Richard Gasquet  of doping after he argued
that he tested positive for cocaine because he kissed a woman
who’d taken the drug.  Beef Contamination  Contador says his failed test was caused by a cut of beef
brought by a friend on the last rest day of the 2010 Tour de
France and that the amount of clenbuterol found in his body was
too small to boost performance. The reading was 50 picograms per
milliliter of clenbuterol. A picogram is one trillionth of a
gram. Farmers sometimes use the stimulant to bulk up cattle.  The Spanish federation “completely caved in to the
pressure of its leading athlete” when acquitting Contador, Mike
Townley, head of sports at law firm Bates Wells & Braithwaite
LLP in London said. Juan Carlos Castano, federation president,
said in an interview in late June he stood by the decision,
although added future cases should be reviewed by international
authorities to speed up the process and avoid “accusations of
favoritism.”  Should Contador be absolved on a technicality or because of
his profile, it would “undermine a decade’s worth of work by
WADA in trying to bring about a system that can’t be beaten by
drug cheats,” Townley said.  WADA spokesman Terence O’Rorke declined to comment on the
case or its implications.  Schleck?  If Contador loses his title, it could go to  Andy Schleck ,
the 26-year-old Luxembourg rider who’s been runner-up the last
three times. He lost the 2010 Tour by 39 seconds to Contador and
this year took the lead on July 22 on the final mountain climb
to Alpe d’Huez, only to lose it a day later to Evans in the time
trial.  Oscar Pereiro of  Spain  inherited the 2006 Tour title after
 Floyd Landis  failed a drug test. Landis blamed whiskey, among
other reasons, as a possible explanation for having synthetic
testosterone in his body. Last year, the American admitted
doping.  The Court of Arbitration for Sport is unlikely to be guided
by the recent judgments in swimming and tennis when it considers
Contador, according to Patrick Russell, a senior partner at
Charles Russell LLP, who’s advised the British Horseracing
Authority on doping.  “These things are very fact specific,” Russell said,
adding that the case won’t change the current rules on athlete
liability if Contador’s lawyers are successful in defending him.  Like the riders who couldn’t lead Contador to victory over
the 2,132-mile Tour, there’s little chance of his lawyers being
successful, according to Townley. He said he’s prepared to wager
money on that outcome.  “I will be amazed,” Townley said. “I will call you up
and send you 10 pounds if CAS don’t find him guilty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  