-- 
Cyberwar Hysteria Aids Consultants, Hurts U.S.: Susan Crawford

-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 
2011-07-25T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/cyberwar-hysteria-aids-consultants-hurts-u-s-susan-crawford.html
On Feb. 3, President  Barack Obama  and the entire West Wing lost  access to e-mail  for
more than seven hours. A tree-trimmer had accidentally cut
the lines running out of the White House data center. White
House Communications Director  Dan Pfeiffer  sent a  bulletin 
via Twitter -- the only way he could get the news out, he
said -- letting the world know that “Verizon is working to
solve the problem.”  A single, careless scissor snip had compromised the
center of the most powerful government in the world.
Staffers accustomed to constant, twitchy BlackBerry
attachment were stopped in their tracks. “It felt like a
snow day,” one adviser told the Washington Post.  The federal government clearly has some housecleaning
to do when it comes to running its own networks. Relying on
a single data connection to ensure that the leader of the
free world can communicate seems shortsighted. Redundant,
competing backup systems would be better. Rather than focus
on the shortcomings in its own electronic operations,
though, the Obama administration -- spurred by vendors such
as  Booz Allen  Hamilton -- is opening the door to
centralized monitoring of any private communications in the
name of increased security.  Familiar Bush administration politics of fear, as well
as vendors’ desires, are animating the current policy push.
You can hear the drumbeat in communications from the
defense and national security elements of the
administration: William Lynn, deputy defense secretary,
 told  the National Defense University earlier this month,
“In the 21st century, bits and bytes can be as threatening
as bullets and bombs.”  Just a few months ago, Lynn proposed extending “the
high level of protection afforded by active defenses” to
private networks that operate infrastructure critical to
the military or the  U.S. economy . Declan McCullagh,  writing
for CNET , interpreted “active defenses” as code for
National Security Agency efforts that, as Lynn wrote in
 Foreign Affairs  last fall, “are a cross between a ‘sentry’
and a ‘sharpshooter’ that can also ‘hunt within’ a network
for malicious code or an intruder who managed to penetrate
the network’s perimeter.”  Government Control  The drumbeat in support of government monitoring and
control over private networks becomes deafening when the
drummer is Bush-era cybersecurity chief (and now executive
vice president of Booz Allen) Michael McConnell. He  voices
concern  that the U.S. “is fighting a cyber-war today, and
we are losing.” Even ordinarily reasonable Senator  Susan Collins  uses this kind of language,  warning  of a “digital
 Pearl Harbor ” in a recent Washington Post op-ed written
with Senator  Joseph Lieberman .  Howard Schmidt, the White House cybersecurity
coordinator, doesn’t buy the hype. “My father was in a war,
my son has been in a war, I’ve been in a war, and this is
not what we’re going through right now,” Schmidt said in an
 interview  with  National Public Radio . “To label every
cyberintrusion, every theft of intellectual property, as
cyberwar is just a total mischaracterization of what’s
going on in the world today,” Schmidt has said.  Security Breaches  We’re hearing more about chinks in private  computer
networks  these days because  46 states have laws  requiring
notification of security breaches involving personal
information -- and not necessarily because there are more
breaches. It’s not clear these breaches are having much
effect on our economy. Cisco Systems Inc., the networking-
equipment maker, suggests that mass online  bank fraud and
spam  are both down, but that personalized fraud may be
increasing.  At any rate, criminals accessing electronic
information without authorization are being arrested and
current laws appear to be adequate to reach them. The
drumbeat of fear continues anyway. The administration’s
draft  cybersecurity bill  released in May would result in
regulation of private Internet access providers by the
Department of  Homeland Security . The DHS approach maps to
the framework under which chemical plants handling
hazardous substances are regulated, signaling that some
sector of the administration views the Internet as akin to
an informational toxic-waste dump.  Unrestrained Sharing  Most importantly, the bill would allow unrestrained
“voluntary” sharing of any information by private operators
with DHS, no matter how it was acquired and no matter how
existing law would otherwise restrict disclosure of the
information. Such sharing would be justified for
cybersecurity purposes, if the operator made efforts to
remove irrelevant identifying information and complied with
not-yet-written privacy protections. This government-
centered structure bypasses the Fourth Amendment’s right to
privacy. The stated limitations are no real limitation at
all.  The White House proposal would also broaden the scope
of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, make the CFAA part of
a racketeering prosecution (triggering harsh penalties),
and generally enhance the sentences available under that
statute. The CFAA already is interpreted breathtakingly
broadly. All computers connected to the Internet are
protected by the CFAA against undefined “unauthorized
access,” which has made it possible for disgruntled
employers to go after employees who use any information for
purposes the employer doesn’t like. Expanding an already
unconstrained scheme is the D.C. equivalent of jumping the
shark; it calls the entire cyberwar enterprise into
question.  Busy Contractors  The bill would certainly create work. Cybercontractors
would stay busy carrying out the audits, evaluating the
providers’ plans, and suggesting draft rules. We have to
hope that Booz Allen and kindred firms would be up to the
job.  The astounding asymmetry of information in this area
makes Americans susceptible to cyberpanics. The day after a
tree-trimmer’s lapse paralyzed the White House, a website
called KnowledgeEmpire  asserted  darkly that the outage had
been caused by a “malware cyber-attack” supposedly aimed at
British diplomats.  It may be in consultants’ interest to create an
atmosphere of fear when it comes to the Internet. But
mindless saber-rattling is hardly in America’s interest.
Some basic work is needed to improve security of the
government’s own networks. Beyond that, if we want to make
private networks more secure, the answer involves calmer
approaches:  investing in research and development,
spurring the creation of safer software and educating our
citizens and companies about computer security.  (Susan Crawford, a professor of law at Cardozo School of
Law, specializing in Internet policy and communications
law, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer on this column:
Susan Crawford in New York at 
 scrawford@scrawford.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
George Anders at   ganders1@bloomberg.net . 