-- 
Dancers Strip, Pay Homage to Styrofoam Boy Statue in Israel

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-07-26T09:56:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/dancers-strip-pay-homage-to-giant-styrofoam-statue-of-black-boy-in-israel.html
Five dancers gather under a
Styrofoam statue of an African boy in  Jerusalem ’s  Israel Museum ,
start stripping off their clothes and screaming.  “I’m a stranger and I see many strange things here,” a
tall male dancer says as he addresses onlookers in Russian-
accented English. “I want to build my nest here. I hope you
aren’t scared anymore.”  The statue is a symbol for foreign workers in Israel, many
of whom live in southern  Tel Aviv . The show, by dancers who are
mostly foreigners, is part of an all-night arts festival called
“Contact Point” featuring dance, music, word and performance
that is inspired by museum artwork in what director James Snyder
calls “a celebration of human creative intervention.”  The dance, called “Foreign Work,” brings together male
dancers from Russia,  France , Guadeloupe and  Brazil  who are
working in Israel, including with the  Batsheva Dance Company .  Their performance takes place next to a Damien Hirst
household-gloss painting. It fits with  Ohad Meromi’s “Boy from
South Tel Aviv”  a 6 meter (20 feet) black statue.  On the plaza that houses Anish Kapoor’s “Turning the World
Upside Down,” people from Jerusalem dance to music piped
through wireless headphones.  “This is definitely a way to open yourself to a wider
audience,” said Snyder of the 4,000 people attending.  In the Modern Art section, visitors “hire” a private
musician to play into individual headphones as they tour. In the
auditorium, art experts answer call-in questions about paintings
on view. In the hall outside the exhibition of Egyptian mummies,
writers sit in high chairs typing out spontaneous stories that
are projected onto a wall.  Children Expelled  The foreign worker became a political issue when Interior
Minister Eli Yishai decided last year to expel 400 children of
foreign workers born in  Israel , a move protested by Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s wife Sara. This year the subject
has arisen again as Netanyahu seeks to bolster the number of
construction workers to accelerate building of homes.  “The meaning is to point out fear, fear of them,” said
choreographer Irad Mazliah, a Canadian-born Israeli who was
inspired by complaints he heard from dancer friends from abroad
about the bureaucracy they encounter as “foreign workers.”  Mazliah, who began dancing after serving in Israel’s air
force, said he was raised by a father who came from  Iraq , a
mother with Polish roots and a grandmother who is French.  Modern Voyagers  “We are most of us foreigners in our own land,” he said.
“We actually have a lot in common with those that come here
from  Darfur , those who come here from France. Everyone a
voyager, a modern voyager, that is escaping his past, his home,
coming to a new land, another land.”  There are about 225,000 foreigners in Israel, of which less
than a third are legally employed, according to Interior
Ministry figures. More than 100,000 of these entered the country
as tourists and their visas have expired. About 40 percent of
these are from the former  Soviet Union .  About 36,000 people, most of them from Eritrea and  Sudan ,
entered Israel illegally by crossing the Sinai border desert,
including 1,200 who arrived in June, a record for the year.  Israelis are divided on the policy toward foreign workers.
The Bible admonishes Israelites to be kind to foreigners, since
they themselves were strangers in the land of  Egypt .  At the same time, economists have argued that the extent of
employment of foreign workers in Israel’s labor market is high
by international standards and that the outsiders don’t help the
employment and wages of Israelis.  “We actually don’t think art is about politics,” Snyder
said. “The point is that a group of dancers who define
themselves as foreigners in Israel are using this setting as a
place to choreograph and adding to the power of the piece.”  Contact Point is an annual festival that is a joint project
between Israel Museum and the Jerusalem Season of Culture.  To contact the writers on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 