-- 
Repatriation Tax Rate of 25% Planned by Nevada Democrat Berkley

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-07-26T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/democrat-berkley-to-offer-offshore-tax-break-tied-to-hiring.html
Representative Shelley Berkley, a
Nevada Democrat, is the latest lawmaker to consider legislation
allowing multinational companies to send offshore profits to the
U.S. at a reduced  tax rate .  Her proposal, which was confirmed yesterday by Berkley’s
communications director, David Cherry, would allow companies to
return profits to the U.S. at a 25 percent tax rate, 10
percentage points below the maximum statutory rate. Most
companies publicly supporting a holiday, such as  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK) , have spoken favorably of the 5.25 percent rate that is
being offered by Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican.  Berkley’s openness is a sign of further thawing in
Democratic opposition to a repatriation holiday, which they have
argued would be a giveaway to companies that wouldn’t have to
use the money to create jobs. As recently as 2009, 48 members of
the Senate Democratic caucus opposed a proposed repatriation
holiday.  Under Berkley’s proposal, which hasn’t been introduced,
companies can lower the tax rate on their repatriated profits by
increasing their payroll. The rate could go as low as 5.25
percent if companies increase their payroll by 14 percent. Like
Brady and a host of companies including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , Berkley’s office is portraying a repatriation
holiday as an inducement for companies to create jobs.  ‘Incentivize’ Jobs  The legislation would “incentivize the creation of new
jobs at home by directly linking the rate at which these
earnings are taxed with the expansion of a company’s payroll,”
according to a summary of the bill that Berkley’s office has
circulated. “Even a portion of this money returning to the
United States will result in a sizable boost to our economy.”  Berkley, who is seeking a Senate seat from Nevada and sits
on the Ways and Means Committee, wouldn’t restrict how companies
use their repatriated profits. Companies were criticized for
using the 2004 holiday to boost dividend payments to
shareholders.  “Ms. Berkley’s voice is a welcome addition to the growing
number of members, Republican and Democrat, that recognize the
need to bring this money home,” said Doug Thornell, a spokesman
for the WIN America Coalition, which counts  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Cisco
and Pfizer as members.  Other Democrats, including Senators  Charles Schumer  of  New
York ,  Kay Hagan  of  North Carolina  and John Kerry of
Massachusetts, have said they would support a repatriation
holiday to stimulate job creation. They all voted against a
repatriation holiday that was proposed in the Senate in 2009.  Infrastructure Bank  Schumer has said Senate Democrats might support a
repatriation holiday if the tax revenue generated went to fund
an infrastructure bank.  Brady’s bill addresses concerns about job losses by
requiring companies to add $25,000 to their taxable income each
time they reduce their total work force below the company’s
average workforce. With a 35 percent tax rate, the provision
would increase a company’s tax bill by $8,750 for each job
reduction.  Repatriation supporters must still overcome criticism from
Democrats, including Representative Lloyd Doggett of  Texas ,
about a holiday’s cost. The congressional Joint Committee on
Taxation has said a repatriation holiday at 5.25 percent would
cost $78.7 billion in foregone revenue over 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  