-- 
Deutsche Bank Names Jain and Fitschen Co-Chief Executives

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-07-26T09:01:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/deutsche-bank-poised-to-appoint-jain-fitschen-as-co-chiefs.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said Anshu Jain and
Juergen Fitschen will become co-chief executive officers in
2012, ending more than two years of speculation over who would
succeed  Josef Ackermann  at the helm of Germany’s largest bank.  Ackermann, 63, will step down at the next annual general
meeting, a year before his contract expires, the Frankfurt-based
bank said in a  statement  yesterday. Deutsche Bank plans for him
to join the supervisory board and replace Clemens Boersig as
chairman, the company said.  Jain, 48, a native of  India  who’s based in London, rose in
his 16-year tenure at Deutsche Bank from fixed-income salesman
to the head of the corporate and investment bank, which put him
in charge of more than 70 percent of group revenue and made him
a leading candidate to run the bank. Fitschen, 62, as CEO for
Germany and the longest-serving Deutsche Bank employee on the
board, is enmeshed in the country’s political and business
affairs.  “ Anshu Jain ’s investment bank is still the principal
profit driver at the bank and he was obviously the best
candidate,” said  Peter Thorne , a London-based analyst with
Helvea who has a “neutral” recommendation on the stock. “It
may be an issue that he doesn’t speak German and is based in
London but that’s why they also named Fitschen. It’s a fantastic
compromise.”  Earnings Rise  Deutsche Bank today said second-quarter net income rose 3.3
percent to 1.2 billion euros ($1.74 billion), helped by gains at
the retail unit and investment banking. While the lender
reiterated a goal today of 10 billion euros in operating pretax
profit this year, it said the European sovereign debt crisis
will make it more difficult to reach the 6.4 billion-euro target
at its investment bank.  Deutsche Bank rose as much as 2 percent in Frankfurt
trading, and was up 14 cents, or 0.4 percent, to 38.36 euros by
10:57 a.m. The shares fell 2 percent this year, less than the 10
percent decline in the 49-company Stoxx 600 Banks Index.  The CEO decision ends mounting speculation over the
replacement for Ackermann, who turned the 141-year-old-
institution into one of the world’s top five investment banks by
fees and served as an informal adviser to  Germany ’s chancellor,
 Angela Merkel , during the credit crisis. Ackermann has run the
bank since 2002.  ‘Temporary Solution’  Pairing Jain, an investment banker, with Fitschen, is an
attempt to balance Deutsche Bank’s dual roles: A global trading
house that competes with the likes of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and gets most of its revenue abroad, and a German institution
with longstanding ties to the nation’s companies and political
establishment.  “I think it’s a temporary solution,” Ralph Silva, an
analyst at London-based Silva Research Network, told Linzie
Janis on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” today. “In
history, there’s never been a bank that has been run by two
people successfully. It can’t work.”  Deutsche Bank ducked the issue of succession in 2009 by
extending Ackermann’s tenure until 2013 after the board failed
to agree on a replacement.  Armin Niedermeier, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, said the
bank won’t make Ackermann, Fitschen or Jain available for
interviews for this article.  The Swiss-born Ackermann helped steer the bank through the
credit crunch following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. without a state bailout. He counselled Merkel on the rescue
of property lender Hypo Real Estate Holding AG in 2008, and
stood beside Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  on June 30 in
Berlin to announce an agreement by banks and insurers to roll
over Greek debt holdings.  Stricter Rules  The new leadership will take over at a time of stricter
rules on capital and liquidity that make it harder for banks to
generate the returns they did before the financial crisis. The
bank is also integrating acquisitions, including Deutsche
Postbank AG, to cut its dependence on  investment banking  and
raise pretax earnings from  consumer lending , money management
and transaction banking to 50 percent of the total from 29
percent in 2009.  Having the trio of Jain, Fitschen and Ackermann running the
bank would help the company manage regulatory issues and
macroeconomic risks, JPMorgan Cazenove analysts led by Kian Abouhossein said in a note yesterday, before the announcement.  ‘Powerful’ Trio  In a world “where bank managements are stretched with
regulatory and macro issues, we feel the trio would be powerful
in managing this difficult environment,” the analysts wrote.  While the continuity at the top of the bank may bolster the
shares, there is a risk that Ackermann’s presence as chairman
might keep Jain from “making his own mark” on the company, the
analysts said.  Deutsche Bank periodically had co-CEOs in the 1960s, 1970s
and 1980s. Boersig, 62, accelerated the search for a new leader
after former Bundesbank president  Axel Weber  decided to join
Switzerland’s UBS AG, removing a potential replacement for
Ackermann and adding to pressure on the bank to map out a
succession plan. UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, plans to
appoint Weber, 54, as chairman in 2013, the Zurich-based company
said July 1.  Additional candidates for the top job at Deutsche Bank
included Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger, 55, consumer-banking
head  Rainer Neske , 46, and Chief Financial Officer Stefan Krause, 48, people with knowledge of the deliberations have
said.  Co-CEO Pitfalls  Co-CEO arrangements don’t always go smoothly. At Zurich-
based Credit Suisse Group AG,  Oswald Gruebel , 67, and  John Mack ,
66, served as co-CEOs for less than two years, before Mack left
in 2004. He became chairman and CEO of New York-based Morgan
Stanley a year later. John Reed, 72, left Citigroup Inc. in
April 2000 following a boardroom struggle with  Sandy Weill , 78,
less than two years after the merger of Citicorp and Travelers
Group Inc.  “Co-CEO arrangements are notoriously challenging,”  Bruce Weber , a finance professor at the  London  Business School, said
in an e-mail. “I trust Anshu will build a productive
relationship with Juergen Fitschen.”  Jain, born in Jaipur in India’s Rajasthan state, joined
Deutsche Bank in 1995 from Merrill Lynch & Co., following his
mentor Edson Mitchell to the German bank. After the 47-year-old
Mitchell died in a plane crash before Christmas in 2000, Jain
took over as head of debt. He was picked to run the combined
debt and equity sales and trading unit in 2004.  Kidder Peabody  Jain studied economics at Sri Ram College of Commerce at
Delhi University, earning a bachelor’s degree with honors. He
enrolled in business school at the University of Massachusetts
at Amherst, where he learned about derivatives -- financial
instruments derived from stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and
commodities, or linked to specific events like changes in the
weather or interest rates.  After graduating in 1985, he joined Kidder Peabody & Co.,
which was acquired the following year by General Electric Co.
and is now part of Zurich-based UBS AG, as a research analyst.
Three years later, he moved to Merrill as a derivatives
strategist and then a salesman.  Deutsche Bank named Jain the sole head of its corporate and
investment bank in January 2010, handing him responsibilities
for the corporate finance and transaction banking units
previously run by Michael Cohrs, 54. Jain helped build the bank
into a bond-market leader since becoming co-head of the
investment bank in 2004.  Germany CEO  Jain’s appointment “reflects that Deutsche Bank has
successfully transformed itself to become a global capital banks
powerhouse,” said Weber, the finance professor. “The other
German banks have struggled outside of their home markets, but
Deutsche Bank stands apart, and this appointment rewards a
leader responsible for their attractive position today.”  Fitschen joined the bank in 1987, and was appointed CEO for
Germany, based in  Frankfurt , in 2005. He joined Deutsche Bank’s
management board in 2009. He is on the supervisory boards of
Metro AG and Schott AG, as well as the board of directors of
Kuehne + Nagel International AG.  Fitschen is also a board member at Germany’s Committee on
Eastern European Economic Relations, which represents German
industrial companies, insurers, banks and retailers with
interests in  Russia  and eastern  Europe . German executives on the
board include Eckhard Cordes and Johannes Teyssen, the CEOs of
Metro and utility EON AG, respectively, as well as Harald Schwager, a board member at BASF SE, according to the website of
the group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net 
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  