-- 
Dodd-Frank Reducing Bank Revenues by $9 Billion Spawns New Fees

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-07-25T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/dodd-frank-cutting-9-billion-of-revenue-spurs-u-s-banks-to-invent-fees.html
Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are among the 10 largest U.S.
banks that may lose more than $9 billion in annual revenue from
two parts of the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul.  The group of lenders estimated lost revenue of at least
$4.6 billion a year from new caps on debit-card swipe fees as
they reported results this month. The Volcker rule, which limits
bets that banks can make with their own money, may result in the
loss of stand-alone proprietary-trading units that produced
average annual revenue of $4.5 billion over the past two years,
the Government Accountability Office said in a July 13  report .  The Dodd-Frank Act, passed in July 2010, may cost 23 U.S.
financial companies --including the top-10 banks -- at least $22
billion in additional expenses or lost revenue, according to a
Bloomberg Government study released last week. Banks laid out
plans this month to recoup some of that revenue with new fees
and fewer customer perks such as debit-card rewards.  “The more onerous parts of Dodd-Frank are now being openly
discussed and banks have been able to get their arms around
certain numbers as the regulations become clear,” said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets . The debit caps “and
prop-trading are the big areas of revenue challenges from Dodd-
Frank.”  Bankers including JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 55, have questioned whether the regulations will hurt
lenders’ ability to support the economy. The 10 biggest banks’
estimated impact of the two rules accounts for less than 2
percent of the $514.6 billion net revenue they posted last year.  Debit-Fee Caps  Bank of America said the cap on debit-card swipe fees
charged to merchants would reduce revenue by about $475 million
a quarter, while JPMorgan and San Francisco-based Wells Fargo
each pegged the decrease at about $1 billion a year. U.S.
Bancorp,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  and  SunTrust Banks
Inc. (STI)  reported anticipated annual revenue declines of about $300
million, $250 million and $180 million, respectively.  The  Federal Reserve  last month limited the fees to 21 cents
per swipe, while letting banks tack on 5 basis points of each
transaction, or almost 2 cents based on the average debit ticket
of $38. The cap, set to start Oct. 1, replaces a formula that
averages about 1.14 percent of the purchase price, or 44 cents.
The Fed conditionally approved an additional 1 cent adjustment
for banks that follow certain fraud-prevention standards.  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s biggest payment
networks, set swipe fees and pass the money to card-issuing
banks. Retailers say the payments can be their highest expense
after labor. U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat,
pushed for the caps last year as an amendment to Dodd-Frank.  Eliminating Perks  To restore some of the lost revenue, banks are moving to
eliminate perks associated with  debit cards , including rewards
programs and free checking. Lenders including Wells Fargo and
Atlanta-based SunTrust have said they expect they can mitigate
about 50 percent of the impact from Durbin.  “The re-pricing of our products was in response to Dodd-
Frank, there’s no question,” James Rohr, chairman and CEO of
Pittsburgh-based PNC, said last week during a conference call
with analysts and investors. Banks will introduce fees and
encourage customers to use credit cards rather than debit cards
“in order to recover this terrible hit that the Durbin
amendment put through the industry,” said Rohr, 62.  Smaller banks also are adjusting to make up for lost
revenue. BB&T Corp., based in Winston-Salem,  North Carolina ,
said July 21 that the regulations will cost the firm about $395
million in annual revenue. Chairman and CEO Kelly King said he
expects lenders to charge an annual fee for debit cards.  ‘Make No Mistake’  “Make no mistake about it, over a period of time, we will
recover these revenues because it’s too significant for us to
just absorb,” King, 62, said after the bank reported that
second-quarter profit climbed 46 percent.  Stand-alone proprietary trading accounted for as much as
3.1 percent of total revenue in a quarter, according to the GAO
report, which collected information from the six biggest U.S.
lenders. The business of betting money for banks’ own accounts
produced net revenue in 13 of the 18 quarters examined, totaling
$15.6 billion, and generated losses of $15.8 billion in the
other five, the GAO said.  Banks also may face costs tied to additional collateral
they will have to post if ratings firms including  Standard &
Poor’s  downgrade their credit because of a Dodd-Frank provision
that prohibits future taxpayer bailouts of troubled lenders,
according to the Bloomberg study. Higher Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. fee assessments and derivatives regulations will
result in lower revenues and increased costs, the study shows.  ‘We Can’t Forget’  It’s difficult to analyze the interactions between rules
and assess the cumulative impact of all the new regulations in
the banking industry, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the
Senate Banking Committee earlier this month.  “We are doing what we can to assess the costs and
benefits,” Bernanke said. “We can’t forget where we were three
years ago when the financial system almost collapsed and, of
course, we’re still seeing the damage from that. So we’re trying
to apply rules in a way that will minimize the risk of another
crisis and still permit good loans to be made to creditworthy
borrowers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  