-- 
Dollar May Increase Without Agreement on U.S. Debt Ceiling, Citigroup Says

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o
-- 
2011-07-25T16:34:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/dollar-may-increase-without-agreement-on-u-s-debt-ceiling-citigroup-says.html
A failure by President  Barack Obama 
and U.S. lawmakers to reach an accord raising the debt ceiling
and cutting the  budget deficit  may fuel a short-term rise in the
dollar as investors seek safety, according to Citigroup Inc.  “When risk aversion picks up and uncertainty dominates
 market psychology , people look for the most liquid and deepest
markets they can find, and that’s historically been U.S.
Treasuries and U.S. dollars,” Andrew Cox, a currency strategist
at Citigroup in New York, said in a telephone interview.  The stalemate between the White House and congressional
Republicans over increasing the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and
reducing the deficit has pushed stocks down and is likely to
contribute to a move away from higher-risk assets, Citigroup
said in a note to clients today.  Standard & Poor’s  reiterated July 21 it may cut the U.S.
debt rating to AA+ from AAA if a deal is reached that doesn’t
address the U.S.’s long-term debt burden. The New York-based
ratings company said the chance of a downgrade during the next
three months is 50 percent. It placed the rating on
“CreditWatch” for a downgrade on July 14.  House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio told fellow Republicans
he was determined to force action on a two-step debt-limit
extension that would provide a roughly $1 trillion, shorter-term
increase than President Barack Obama has requested, defying a
veto threat and the administration’s warnings of dire economic
consequences.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners including the
euro, yen and pound, declined 0.1 percent today to 74.105 in  New
York . The measure reached 73.889 on July 21, the lowest level
since June 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  