-- 
Don’t Let the Egyptian Army Follow Caesar’s Script: Noah Feldman

-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 
2011-07-25T00:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/don-t-let-the-egyptian-army-follow-caesar-s-script-noah-feldman.html
At least since Julius Caesar came
back from Gaul and made himself emperor, generals who overthrow
the government have followed the same script: They take power
only to make the country safe for rule by the people. Then they
usually find a way to maintain their influence, even if they
allow elections.  The latest generals playing this game are in  Egypt . They
have  asked  a commission of constitutional drafters to come up
with a provision that will institutionalize their power, perhaps
by establishing them as protectors of the secular, democratic
character of the state, on the Turkish model.  On the surface, the declarations may look attractive.
Voters in this fall’s national elections are likely to empower
many Islamists associated with the Muslim Brotherhood. Call it
the Islamic elections rule: In every Arabic speaking country
where there have been even modestly free elections since 1990,
Islamists have done much better than anyone expected.  It is also true that in  Turkey  the secular military has
contributed to moderating the Islamic democrats of the ruling
 Justice and Development Party . They are able to do so because
their threat of intervention is credible: In 1997, in what was
called a “soft” or “postmodern” coup, the military overthrew
a government led by the Islamically oriented Virtue Party.  Since taking power in 2002, the Justice and Development
Party has moved carefully when trying to tweak Turkey’s
unamendable constitutional value of secularism. For example, in
2008 Turkey’s constitutional court rejected amendments passed by
the parliament that would have allowed female university
students to wear head scarves. The government chose not to
challenge the ruling -- in part to avoid giving the military an
excuse to step in.  Bad for Egypt  Nonetheless, when it comes to Egypt, giving the military
the formal power to protect secular democracy is a terrible
idea. Indeed, even the Turkish model is a bit deceptive: Nothing
in the written constitution of Turkey gives the military any
special powers to ensure that secularism is maintained. The
military’s powers are wholly self-appointed.  In recent years, the Turkish generals have mostly exercised
this power wisely. But there is no guarantee that will continue.
A few years ago, if prosecutors are to be believed, a secret
group with roots in the military plotted a coup.  In Egypt in particular, the legacy of military takeover is
a story of frustrated efforts at democracy.  Hosni Mubarak , the
recently deposed president, was an  air force  general before he
became vice president under  Anwar Sadat , who was also a general.
And Sadat followed Gamal Abdel Nasser, the original modern Arab
dictator. Nasser was a colonel in the Egyptian army and came to
power via a revolution led by young officers. In each case, any
promises of democratic reforms were quickly forgotten.  Just Another Dictator  The problem goes beyond Egypt or Turkey. General  Pervez Musharraf  was met with optimism when he took over the messy,
contentious Pakistani democracy in 1999 and promised reform and
a fast return to free elections. Eight years later, he had
become a garden-variety dictator. It took a fresh democracy
movement to bring him down -- one spearheaded by lawyers after
Musharraf fired the chief justice of the  Supreme Court .  The bottom line is that the military as an institution is
dangerous to a developing democracy. No matter how well-
intentioned the generals may be when they take over, their
institutional incentive is to maximize their own power at the
expense of other branches of government. In some cases, the
military as an institution may balance other institutions. But
when that happens, it is usually by accident -- and some other
institution would always do a better job.  Army as Stakeholder  How, then, do you stop the army from overthrowing the
government? Most ancient writers thought the only answer was to
have no standing army at all. Some of the framers of the U.S.
Constitution shared this classical republican view. We have them
to thank for the Second Amendment, which guarantees the people
the right to form militias and bear arms, to counterbalance the
danger of an army.  Today few countries are able to protect themselves without
an army -- so other answers must be possible. The most prominent
answer, heard often in the U.S., is that the military’s culture
should be steeped in the principle of civilian control. Teaching
both officers and enlisted personnel the values of democracy --
and the importance of following legal orders -- is meant to
ensure that the military will not interfere in affairs of state.  Culture matters, and so does discipline. But a major reason
no one in the U.S. fears a military coup is that the interests
of the military would not be served by challenging the nation’s
constitutional structure. Our other institutions of government,
whatever their painfully obvious limitations, are credible and
legitimate.  Imagine that the Joint Chiefs of Staff announced they would
take over the government unless President  Barack Obama  and  House
Republicans  agreed to raise the debt ceiling before the date of
financial Armageddon. The generals would not be better off than
they are today. The military, like the rest of the citizenry,
has much more to gain by the peaceful functioning of the
government than it would be likely to gain by attempting to
replace the government with something else.  The trick, then, to getting the military to respect
democracy is for its members to have a large stake in the
success of democratic institutions. This is made harder when the
military is competing with other institutions. In Egypt, for
example, the army controls a nontrivial sector of the economy,
which gives the generals little incentive to share power.  The  Bush administration  disbanded the Iraqi army in large
part because it feared the army would overthrow any elected,
democratic government. The decision was wrong because it
weakened the state too much, leading to a full-on insurrection.  Egypt’s army should not be disbanded. But Egypt needs its
military to be less powerful, not more. The protesters who have
returned to Cairo’s streets in recent weeks understand this.
Egypt’s allies, including the U.S., should realize it too.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at Harvard, is a Bloomberg
View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah.feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  