-- 
Dow, Saudi Aramco Approve $20 Billion Petrochemical Project

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-07-25T17:05:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/dow-chemical-will-build-20-billion-petrochemical-plant-with-saudi-aramco.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and Saudi Arabian
Oil Co. said they will proceed with a $20 billion petrochemical
plant at the Saudi port of Jubail as the world’s largest crude-
oil exporter tries to diversify its economy.  The joint venture, Sadara Chemical Co., will have capacity
to make more than 3 million metric tons of chemicals a year, the
companies said today in a statement. Sales of advanced chemicals
used in applications such as cable coatings, packaging, carbon-
fiber composites and water treatment will be $10 billion a year,
Dow said. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will be about $1 billion.  “ Saudi Arabia  will be able to boost the value of its heavy
crude by developing many types of derivatives such as advanced
plastics that very few other plants can do,” John Sfakianakis,
the chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi in  Riyadh , said by
telephone. “Dow is bringing the expertise and knowledge which
is important to help develop cluster industries.”  Saudi Arabia, the largest Arab economy, is seeking foreign
investors to help it build clusters of manufacturing industries
around refineries and chemical plants that would create jobs for
a population that’s increasing by 2 percent a year, according to
an HSBC Holdings Plc report released last month.  Low Energy Costs  Dow, the largest U.S. chemical maker, will gain access to
low-cost raw materials for making petrochemicals and products
such as food packaging for export to fast-growing economies in
 Asia . Saudi Arabia has historically charged local petrochemical
makers an ethane price of 75 cents per million British thermal
units. That’s about a sixth of U.S. spot prices, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sadara, which has been discussed publicly since 2007, will
be based around a single cracker than can use raw materials
derived from oil and natural gas, said Dow and  Saudi Aramco , as
the state oil company is known. A cracker breaks hydrocarbons
such as naphtha and ethane into ethylene and propylene, the
building blocks for petrochemicals.  The venture has long-term agreements with the Saudi
government to supply raw materials at a price that will make
ethylene production costs among the lowest 25 percent in the
world, Midland, Michigan-based Dow’s Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Liveris  said today on a conference call. He declined to
be more specific on feedstock arrangements. Natural-gas liquids
are becoming “scarce” in the kingdom, Liveris said.  Saudi IPO  The venture will issue about $13 billion of debt and the
remaining $7 billion of funding will come from the two partners
and an initial public offering in Saudi Arabia, Dow Chief
Financial Officer William Weideman said on the call. Dow will
have a “modest” cash commitment starting in 2014 because it
already has paid for pre-engineering and is contributing
technology, he said.  Bulldozers will arrive on the site in two weeks to begin
construction, Liveris said. Sadara’s first production unit will
start operating in the second half of 2015 and the facility will
be complete by 2016, the companies said.  About 45 percent of sales will be to the Asia Pacific
region, 25 percent to the  Middle East  and 10 percent to  Europe ,
Liveris said. The venture will make polyurethanes, propylene
oxide, propylene glycol, elastomers and polyethylene.  Sadara will market its output in eight countries in the
Middle East and Dow will sell the products outside the region,
the companies said.  ‘Thousands’ of Jobs  Saudi Aramco Chief Executive Officer Khalid Al-Falih said
the venture will help generate “thousands” of jobs.  Saudi Aramco plans to invest about $40 billion in three
domestic refining and petrochemical projects that would add more
than 8 million tons of production capacity, Al-Falih said at a
Dubai conference in December. In addition to the Dow plant, they
include a $12 billion facility that Aramco is building with
 Total SA (FP) , also at the Gulf port of Jubail, and an $8 billion
facility with Sumitomo Chemical Co. planned for the Saudi Red
Sea coast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 