-- 
Drought Withers Smallest Hay Crop in Century to Boost Beef Costs

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-07-25T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/drought-withers-smallest-u-s-hay-crop-in-a-century-to-boost-cost-of-beef.html
The smallest U.S. hay crop in more
than a century is withering under a record  Texas  drought,
boosting the cost of livestock feed for dairy farmers and beef
producers from California to Maryland.  The price of alfalfa, the most common hay variety, surged
51 percent in the past year, reaching a record $186 a short ton
in May, government data show. Hay and grass make up about half
of what cattle eat over their lifetimes, so parched pastures are
forcing ranchers to find alternative sources of feed, pushing
some spot-market corn to the highest ever.  Farmers in Oklahoma and in Texas, the biggest producer of
hay and cattle, may harvest only one crop from alfalfa and
Bermuda grass this year, compared with three normally, said
Larry Redmon, a state forage specialist at  Texas A&M University .
Cattle that usually graze on fields through September or October
are instead being sold to feedlots, where they are confined in
pens and eat mostly corn.  “We’re just running out of grass,” Bo Kizziar, the
feedlot manager at Hansford County Feeders, said by telephone
from Spearman, Texas. With pastures disappearing, Hansford is
moving cattle into its 50,000-head feedlot three months earlier
than normal, boosting costs as the company buys more corn, he
said.  The drought, which is the worst ever in Texas, is
compounding a hay shortage caused by farmers shifting this year
to more profitable crops, including corn. The U.S. may harvest
57.605 million acres of hay in 2011, the least on records going
back to 1909, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Corn was
sown on 92.282 million acres, the second-most since 1944.  Ethanol Corn Grab  Surging demand from ethanol refiners, livestock producers
and importers sent corn futures up 75 percent in the past year,
as of yesterday. The U.S. is the world’s largest corn grower and
exporter, and the government said June 9 that, for the first
time ever, more of the crop will be used to make fuel than
 animal feed .  Jeff Oyen, 47, who has run a hay-brokerage business since
1991, converted all 1,000 acres of his farm near Crook, South
Dakota, to other crops the past three years, partly because
corn, wheat and soybeans offered better returns than hay.  Oyen still trucks about 10,000 bales of hay that he buys
from other farmers in central South Dakota to feedlots and
dairies in  Iowa ,  Minnesota  and  Wisconsin . Oyen said he has
shipped some hay as far as  Maryland  because adverse weather
reduced production.  “We are getting lots of calls to buy hay, but we can only
service so many customers,” said Oyen, who is selling hay this
year for $160 a ton, up from about $100 a year earlier and the
most ever at this time of year.  Record Hay Prices  Alfalfa traded at a national average of $180 a ton in June,
compared with $119 a year earlier, according to USDA figures.
For the year, the average may be more than $165, topping the
previous annual peak in 2008, said Katelyn McCullock, a dairy
and forage economist at the Denver-based  Livestock Marketing
Information Center , a forecaster since 1955.  Rising feed costs are prompting a reduction in cattle herds
and eroding profit for milk producers. The USDA yesterday
forecast retail-meat  prices  may increase this year as much as 7
percent and dairy products may jump 6 percent, more than the
rate of overall food inflation at 3 percent to 4 percent.  “All feed costs are high,” McCullock said. “Rising
alfalfa prices will hit dairy farmers’ profitability fairly
quickly, and this will lead to increased culling.” In June, the
U.S. cow herd was the highest in two years, USDA data show.  Shift to Corn  As cattle producers shift more of their feed rations to
grain, regional spot-market prices are climbing.  Corn  in the
northern Texas Panhandle sold for about $6.89 a bushel on July
21, or 9.5 cents above September corn futures on the Chicago
Board of Trade. The spot price was almost twice as high as the
same day a year  earlier , USDA data show. Some livestock
producers in Texas are paying as much as $1.15 more than
futures, according to Kizziar, the feedlot manager.  Parts of Texas,  New Mexico ,  Arizona , Southern California
and western  Oklahoma  had as little as 25 percent of normal
rainfall in the past 90 days, while areas of Kansas,  Louisiana ,
Mississippi,  Alabama ,  Georgia ,  Florida  and the Carolinas had
about half,  National Weather Service  data show.  In Texas, wildfires have burned about 3.3 million acres
this year, said Holly Huffman, a spokeswoman for the state
Forest Service. October through June was the driest nine-month
period ever in Texas, and rainfall totals in July look to extend
the record into a 10th month, State Climatologist John Nielsen- Gammon said in an interview from College Station.  Grinding Stalks  The drought also will hurt local corn production. Some
farmers in central Texas are already cutting crops that have
failed and grinding the stalks into silage to feed cattle,  Texas
A&M ’s Redmon said.  “It’s just a dang disaster everywhere you look,” Redmon
said. “I haven’t even seen a corn crop this year, unless it’s
being irrigated. Those guys just got hammered.”  Lower grain and hay supplies may support corn prices
nationally, as southern livestock producers “are going to have
to come back to the Midwest for those bushels,” said David Smoldt, vice president of operations at INTL FCStone in West Des
Moines, Iowa. U.S. rail shipments of grain during the four weeks
ended July 9 were 5 percent higher than a year earlier,  USDA
data  show.  U.S. corn inventories before next year’s harvest may drop
to 870 million bushels, the lowest since 1996, as ethanol
producers demand record amounts of the grain and livestock
demand increases, according to the USDA.  Corn Record Seen  The tightening stockpile “really puts the pressure on
 Illinois , Iowa, Minnesota and  Nebraska  to have better than a
normal crop,” said Smoldt, who estimates corn might reach a
record $8 if hot, dry Midwest weather continues into August when
plants fill kernels with sugars and starch.  The U.S. cattle herd, including dairy cows and beef animals
on feedlots and ranches, totaled 100 million head as of July 1,
the fewest at that time of year since at least 1973, the USDA
said July 22.  As of July 1, the U.S.  feedlot  herd of beef cattle totaled
10.451 million head, up 3.8 percent from a year earlier, the
USDA said in a report July 22, as drought forced ranchers to
sell more livestock.  Beef producers are culling cows and young females, which
means smaller supplies for the next two years or longer,
according to Steve Kay, the publisher of Cattle Buyers Weekly, a
trade magazine based in Petaluma,  California . The cattle and
calf herd next year may fall to the lowest since 1952,
increasing costs for meat processors including Tyson Foods Inc.
and Cargill Inc., he said.  Smaller Herds  “The drought has dried up any hopes for rebuilding the
beef herd this year or next year,” Kay said in a telephone
interview. “Hay is getting shorter in supply and prices are
running higher. The herd liquidation is increasing. The falling
cattle herd is going to put more stress on the cattle-processing
industry. Beef is going to continue to be more expensive for
U.S. consumers.”  Feedlots also are accelerating sales to meatpackers, which
will ultimately result in lower beef supplies and may send
cattle to a record by the fourth quarter, said Don Close, a
market director with the Texas Cattle Feeders Association in
Amarillo. Cattle futures reached $1.21625 a pound on April 4 on
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the highest ever, before
retreating to $1.149 yesterday.  “Sale-barn receipts for cows and calves have been
extremely heavy because guys are out of feed or out of water and
don’t have a choice but to sell their cattle,” Close said.
“It’s going to make a tight supply even tighter, as we get down
the road.”  Dairy Output Boom  Still, demand remains high for both corn and hay from dairy
farms, which are expanding herds as high milk prices offset the
jump in feed costs. Average Class I milk prices surged 79
percent to $23.92 in June from two years earlier. U.S. milk
production climbed 1.1 in June, while the dairy herd totaled
9.21 million cows, up 0.9 percent from a year earlier, the USDA
said July 19.  “When you look at the projected prices for corn, soybeans
and hay and the price of milk, the profit margin over feed costs
is very slim,” said Steve Bodart, a dairy-industry specialist
at Lookout Ridge Consulting in Baldwin, Wisconsin. “We are
going to have very tight supplies of hay this winter, and that’s
when cow culling will increase.”  Poor Crop Conditions  About 94 percent of pasture in Texas was in poor or very
poor condition as of July 17, the worst shape for the date since
at least 1995, according to the USDA. Little rain is in the
forecast over the next five days, and temperatures in  Dallas 
will top 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) for a 25th
consecutive day today, according to the  National Weather
Service .  “Our pasture conditions are terrible,” said George Enloe,
a partner at Amarillo Brokerage Co., a risk-management firm in
Amarillo, Texas. “It looks like the moon. It looks like it’s
the middle of the winter in a real bad year, except it’s 100
degrees outside.”  To contact the reporters on this story: 
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ; 
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  