-- 
Drunk Mom’s Deadly Crash Baffles Friends; Italian Mystery: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-07-25T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/drunk-mom-s-deadly-crash-baffles-friends-chic-italian-mystery-greg-evans.html
Two summers ago, a 36-year-old
suburban  New York  mom gunned her red minivan the wrong way down
a highway and crashed head-on into an SUV. She died along with
her 2-year-old daughter, three young nieces and three men in the
other vehicle.  After an autopsy revealed that Diane Schuler had chugged
the equivalent of 10 shots of alcohol and smoked pot, possibly
while behind the wheel, she was vilified as a child murderer.  But the Diane Schuler recalled in Liz Garbus’s troublesome
HBO documentary “ There’s Something Wrong with Aunt Diane ” is
no fiend. Family, friends and co-workers describe a devoted
“super mom” who rarely drank, held a six-figure job,
participated in school activities and made time to iron her
kids’ clothes.  Was the autopsy flawed, as husband Daniel Schuler claimed?
Did Diane suffer a stroke or some other ailment?  “Aunt Diane” chronicles the uphill efforts of Daniel
Schuler and his sister-in-law to prove Diane was sober that
Sunday in 2009.  The film treats the husband’s improbable claims seriously
and sympathetically, to the point where Garbus occasionally
grasps at straws as tenaciously as the widower. Medical records
are examined, eyewitness accounts raked over and a road trip
timeline constructed. The outcome probably won’t surprise
anyone, despite a minor and rather unconvincing twist.  Much is made of a statement by the crash’s sole survivor,
Diane’s then 5-year-old son Bryan, that “Mommy’s head hurt. She
couldn’t see.” Corroboration also supposedly comes from a
mobile-phone conversation that Schuler’s 8-year-old niece, Emma,
had with her parents while riding in the car: “There’s
something wrong with Aunt Diane,” the little girl said.  SUV Victims  Astoundingly, the film never discusses the possibility that
the children were noticing she was drunk and stoned.  Emma’s parents refused to take part in the documentary
about the crash that killed their three daughters. But “Aunt
Diane” also gives too little screen time to the SUV victims’
angry relatives, whose ire over Daniel’s denials,
inconsistencies and possible motives has been better reported
elsewhere. (According to the film, family members of all the
victims were offered an unspecified payment to participate.)  Still, “Aunt Diane” is more than cinematic rubbernecking.  The mystery of Schuler’s confounding behavior that day
gives way to something genuinely unexpected: a disquieting
portrait of a woman who appeared to live a decent, even
admirable life, only to leave behind grief beyond comprehension.  “There’s Something Wrong with Aunt Diane” airs tonight on
 HBO  at 9 p.m. New York time. Rating: **1/2  ‘Ratking’  Crime, Italian style, is looking sharp.  The third and final episode of PBS’s latest “Masterpiece
Mystery!” series is the best of the trio.  Based on Michael Dibdin’s mystery novels, the series stars
Rufus Sewell as Aurelio Zen, a police detective whose suits are
even sharper than his sleuthing skills.  Though the action is set (gorgeously) in present-day  Rome ,
the show has a chic, retro feel, with cigarette smoke and crisp
white shirts. Don Draper would fit right in.  In the finale, “Ratking,” Zen’s investigation into the
kidnapping of a wealthy industrialist leads to his secretive
family.  The chief suspect: The rich man’s daughter, a sophisticate
with a page-boy haircut who looks like an extra from
“Cabaret.” If the pacing seems a bit leisurely compared to the
American rat-a-tat rhythms of, say, “ Law & Order ,” at least
“Ratking” ambles with style.  “Ratking” airs Sunday on PBS at 9 New York time. Rating:
***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 