-- 
Dunkin’ Brands Seeks Premium to Starbucks in IPO on Expansion

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-07-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/dunkin-brands-seeks-premium-to-starbucks-in-ipo-on-expansion.html
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc., operator
of Dunkin’ Donuts coffee shops, plans to offer shares at a
premium to  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  as it accelerates a U.S. expansion.  Dunkin’ is seeking to raise as much as $401 million in an
initial public offering tomorrow selling 22.3 million shares for
$16 to $18 each, according to a regulatory filing. At the
midpoint, Dunkin’s market value will be about $2.15 billion, or
3.6 times trailing 12-month sales, compared with about 2.7 times
for Starbucks.  After emerging from a 2006 leveraged buyout, Dunkin’ plans
to more than double its U.S. locations in the next 20 years and
may open more than Starbucks, the world’s largest coffee-shop 
chain. Last year, Dunkin's revenue increased faster than that 
of McDonald’s Corp., which offers the McCafe line of coffees. 
Canton, Massachusetts-based Dunkin’ has less than 2 percent 
of its stores in the western U.S., giving it “a ton more 
opportunity to grow” than the burger chain, according to
Jack Russo, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.  “They’ve got a really good brand name, they’ve got a
really good store presence in the Northeast,” said Russo, based
in  St. Louis . “The question is going to be, can they bring this
to the rest of the country?”  In the U.S., where it has about 6,800 points of
distribution, mostly in  New England  and New York, Dunkin’ plans
to open as many as 250 new locations per year in 2011 and 2012,
with a goal of 15,000. The chain has about 9,800 global
locations, almost all franchised, and may add 500 stores a year
overseas this year and in 2012. Starbucks, with 16,800 stores,
plans about 500 net new locations worldwide in fiscal 2011.  Coffee Ardor  Last year, revenue at Dunkin’ jumped 7.3 percent, compared
with 5.8 percent at McCafe coffee-serving McDonald’s. The burger
chain trades at 3.6 times trailing 12-month sales, the same as
Dunkin’. Starbucks increased revenue 9.5 percent after shutting
down hundreds of underperforming stores in 2008 and 2009.  Dunkin’ and its competitors are betting on Americans’
continued coffee buying. McDonald’s said last week that U.S.
sales of its McCafe specialty drinks rose 29 percent during the
second quarter.  “The coffee segment has been one of the fastest growing”
in the restaurant industry, said  Larry Miller , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Atlanta. “Everybody is putting on a better
cup of coffee because it has been a growth business.”  Dunkin’ plans to use its estimated $348 million of proceeds
from the IPO to repay debt accumulated under the ownership of
private-equity firms Bain Capital LLC,  Carlyle Group  and Thomas
H. Lee Partners LP. All three firms are selling shares in the
IPO, according to the prospectus, each cutting their stake to 26
percent from about 32 percent.  Commodity Costs  While the chain has growth potential, its smaller size may
present a challenge in keeping costs low as it expands, said
 Matt McCormick , a  fund manager  at Bahl & Gaynor Inc. in
Cincinnati.  “This is not somebody who has massive scale and can clamp
down on inefficiencies as much as Starbucks or McDonald’s,”
said McCormick, who helps oversee about $4 billion including
shares of McDonald’s.  Dunkin’s stores have faced rising coffee and dairy prices
over the past year. Arabica coffee surged to a 14-year high in
May and has gained about 50 percent in the past 12 months.
McDonald’s and Starbucks have raised prices this year to help
offset mounting ingredient costs.  Since most of Dunkin’s locations are owned by franchisees,
it is less affected by commodity costs, the prospectus showed.
 Tom Johnson , a spokesman for Dunkin’, declined to comment
because the company is in a quiet period ahead of the IPO.  Krispy Kreme  Overexpansion hurt Krispy Kreme Doughnuts Inc., the
Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based chain that sprung from a
single factory set up in 1937. In the 1980s, the company began
opening stores across the U.S. By 2005, the stock tanked,
several executives left amid an accounting scandal, and the
company was forced to close half of its 390 stores. Krispy Kreme
held an IPO in April 2000.  Bain, Carlyle and Thomas H. Lee paid about $2.43 billion
five years ago for Dunkin’, whose filing names  Oak Brook ,
Illinois-based McDonald’s, Starbucks in  Seattle  and  Tim Hortons
Inc. (THI)  of Oakville, Ontario, as competitors. The acquisition was
part of a wave of leveraged buyouts worth a record $1.6 trillion
that were completed from 2005 to 2007, according to Preqin Ltd.,
a London-based research firm.  The firms each contributed $345.5 million of equity to the
deal in addition to management’s $25 million, with the rest of
the cost financed with debt, according to a letter from Carlyle
to investors. Carlyle marked its investment at 1.55 times as of
March 31, putting the enterprise value of the company at $3.5
billion, including $1.8 billion in long-term debt.  U.S. IPOs Scheduled  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Barclays Plc, Morgan Stanley, Bank of
America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are leading the
Dunkin’ offering. Underwriters have an option to buy an
additional 3.3 million shares within 30 days.  Twelve U.S. IPOs are scheduled to price this week, seeking
to raise as much as $2.1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That would be the most deals since 17 were completed
during the week of Nov. 5, 2007, the data show.  Wesco Aircraft Holdings Inc., the supplier of equipment to
the  aerospace industry  that’s owned by Carlyle, seeks $368
million in its IPO. The Valencia, California-based company is
offering 21 million shares for $15.50 to $17.50 each, according
to a regulatory filing.  Union Agriculture Group Corp., the Montevideo, Uruguay-
based owner and operator of farmland in the country, is aiming
to raise as much as $214 million selling 14.3 million common
shares for $13 to $15 each. The company, partly owned by Boston-
based hedge fund Wellington Management Co., intends to use the
proceeds to acquire more land.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  