-- 
E*Trade Can’t Make Shareholders Whole With 62% Gain in Takeover: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 
2011-07-25T20:25:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/e-trade-shareholders-may-recoup-20-of-losses.html
E*Trade Financial Corp. shareholders
may only recoup 20 percent of their losses even if Citadel LLC
is successful in pushing for a takeover.  Citadel, the online brokerage’s largest investor, called on
E*Trade last week to  explore a sale , which may fetch as much as
$21 a share, Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP said. A bid at that
level would mark a 62 percent premium to the stock price prior
to a July 20 letter from billionaire  Ken Griffin ’s hedge fund.
Investors would still only recover 20 percent of their losses
since November 2007, when Citadel injected cash into E*Trade to
help avert bankruptcy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Citadel has made a profit on its investment,
according to a person familiar with the matter, New York-based
E*Trade has underperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index by 70
percentage points as customer defaults on home loans led to net
losses of $3.5 billion. Potential buyers  TD Ameritrade Holding
Corp. (AMTD)  and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  may be deterred by the mortgage
portfolio and a 21 percent stock gain since Citadel tried to
drum up a bidding war,  Raymond James  Financial Inc. said.  “Investors may not necessarily be looking to break even.
They’re just looking to get something at this point,”  Matt McCormick , a  money manager  at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor
Inc., which oversees $4 billion, said in a July 22 telephone
interview. Still, “anybody willing to buy mortgage assets
better have a strong stomach,” he said.  ‘Catastrophic Losses’  Citadel in the July 20 letter called on E*Trade Chief
Executive Officer Steven Freiberg to hire a bank to review
strategic alternatives and take immediate action to maximize
 shareholder value  after “catastrophic losses.” The online
retail brokerage should also hold a special meeting and remove
two directors, according to the letter.  “We believe a sale of the company could be achieved
promptly and generate significantly higher shareholder value,
avoiding the risks of operating as an independent company
lacking leadership and financial capabilities,” Citadel wrote.
“It is time for E*Trade’s shareholders to come first.”  E*Trade responded July 22, forming a special committee of
independent directors, which recommended hiring  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
of New York to review strategic alternatives. The company said
New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. completed a “thorough
review” in the fourth quarter, and the board determined that
executing the business plan was a better alternative to a sale
at that time. E*Trade said it won’t hold a special meeting.  Susan Hickey, a spokeswoman for E*Trade, declined to
comment on deal speculation beyond the company’s statement. The
shares climbed 5.6 percent to $16.52 today, the highest closing
price since April 25.  Special Meeting  Citadel again called for a special shareholders meeting, to
be held 10 days to 60 days after E*Trade receives notice from
holders of 10 percent of the company, according to a July 22
regulatory filing received today.  E*Trade, the fourth-largest U.S. retail brokerage by client
assets, has a fair value between $18 and $21 a share in an
acquisition, said  Richard Repetto , a New York-based analyst at
Sandler O’Neill. Matt Fischer, an analyst at Credit Agricole SA
in  New York , estimates a price between $11 and $18, based on
revenue and earnings multiples for deals since 1996.  “The thesis by Citadel is for E*Trade to sell at a
reasonable change of control premium and that it’s going to be
better than the prospects of it being a standalone company,”
Repetto said in a July 22 telephone interview. “A lot of things
will have to go right for them to be successful in getting a
sale.”  Citadel’s Investment  Citadel pumped $2.55 billion into E*Trade after the
company’s holdings of home loans and asset-backed securities
caused customers to pull their cash from the online bank and
brokerage. Citadel took a 17 percent stake in E*Trade and bought
about $800 million of securities linked to residential and
commercial mortgages for 27 cents on the dollar after rising
defaults on U.S. home loans by subprime borrowers helped freeze
credit markets from August 2007.  “That loan portfolio is a huge deterrent for an
acquisition,” Credit Agricole’s Fischer said in a July 22
telephone interview. “Their feet are now held to the fire. They
can’t kick the can down the road anymore and ask investors to
wait for the loan portfolio to roll off or take provisions.”  After the hedge fund’s investment in November 2007, E*Trade
fell $39.85, or 75 percent, to $12.95 on July 19, the day before
Citadel’s letter was made public. Stock prices have been
adjusted to account for the company’s reverse split last year,
in which every 10 shares were swapped for one.  Recouping Losses  While an acquisition at $21 a share would represent a 62
percent premium to the July 19 closing price, shareholders would
only make an additional $8.05. That means investors who have
held the stock since November 2007 would only recoup 20 percent
of their losses, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Citadel exchanged bonds it purchased for convertible bonds
that became common stock. While the hedge-fund operator’s
holdings topped 33 percent in 2009, its investment in E*Trade is
now down to a 9.8 percent equity stake.  The Chicago-based firm made money on its investment in
E*Trade, according to a person familiar with the situation, who
declined to be identified because the information is private.
Katie Spring, a spokeswoman for Citadel, declined to comment on
the profitability of the hedge fund’s E*Trade investment.  E*Trade said in its statement last week Citadel made “a
substantial profit” selling debt and equity securities in
E*Trade in the last 18 months, including the sale of about 51
million shares in the past five months for about $831 million.  TD Ameritrade  Citadel agreed in January 2008 to be a passive investor in
E*Trade so that it could increase its stake in the company
beyond 10 percent. The firm’s founder, Griffin, 42, joined
E*Trade’s board in June 2009.  Charles Schwab , the biggest independent U.S. brokerage by
assets, and TD Ameritrade, the third largest, are the most
likely buyers, according to Sandler O’Neill’s Repetto and
Patrick O’Shaughnessy, an analyst for Raymond James in  Chicago .
TD Ameritrade has been increasing its cash holdings and has a
history of deal making, according to O’Shaughnessy.  Greg Gable ,
a spokesman for San Francisco-based Charles Schwab, declined to
comment on deal speculation regarding E*Trade.  Directors of TD Ameritrade plan to discuss at a meeting
tomorrow the possibility of acquiring E*Trade, the Wall Street
Journal said, citing people familiar with the matter. TD
Ameritrade rose 1.8 percent to $19.96 today.  “It has long been our practice to not comment on any rumor
or speculation in the marketplace,” said Kim Hillyer, a
spokeswoman for TD Ameritrade. “Our board of directors is
meeting this week for their regularly scheduled quarterly
meeting. Strategic matters are discussed by the board on a
regular basis, but it would be inappropriate for me to comment
further on specific topics -- hypothetical or otherwise.”  Charles Schwab  TD Ameritrade rejected an offer from E*Trade in 2005.
Instead, Ameritrade Holding Corp., as it was then called, bought
the TD Waterhouse USA unit of  Canada ’s Toronto-Dominion Bank.  Charles Schwab, founder and chairman of the namesake firm,
said in May 2007 that while he would welcome an opportunity to
buy TD Ameritrade or E*Trade, he wouldn’t pay the prices at the
time. E*Trade has fallen 93 percent since then, after adjusting
for the reverse stock split, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Walt Bettinger, CEO of Charles Schwab, said at an analyst
meeting July 22 that he understands “the dynamics around
E*Trade and the consolidation opportunity and the opportunity to
potentially derive value from reducing expenses.”  “At the same time, there are many issues around that that
we are looking at and would always look at with respect to any
possible transaction,” Bettinger said, according to a
transcript. “What’s the purchase price of the transaction, what
are the potential capital holes that would need to be filled
under purchase accounting?”  ‘A Terrible Story’  E*Trade has posted total net losses of $3.5 billion since
Citadel’s investment in the fourth quarter of 2007. The shares
slumped 70 percent since then, the worst performance among the
10 U.S. companies in the NYSE Arca Securities Broker/Dealer
Index. Including dividends, the  S&P 500  slipped 0.8 percent in
the same period, the data show.  “E*Trade, since before the financial crisis, has been a
terrible story,”  Ed Ditmire , an analyst with Macquarie Group
Ltd. in New York, said in a telephone interview July 22. “This
company had exposure to the mortgage market before the
cataclysmic market crash.”  While E*Trade posted net losses in 11 straight quarters
through the period ended in March 2010, the company has reported
profits in four of the last five quarters as provisions for loan
defaults declined, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock’s
21 percent surge to $15.64 since the disclosure of Citadel’s
letter has made a takeover more expensive.  “E*Trade had a great franchise, but there’s not a huge
demand for it now, and the markets are volatile,” Bahl &
Gaynor’s McCormick said. “Any potential buyer would have to
view it with a very skeptical eye.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at +1-212-617-5919 or  nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 