-- 
EBA Derivative Data, Credit Suisse Taxes, Proxy-Rule Reversal: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-25T12:24:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/eba-derivative-data-credit-suisse-taxes-proxy-rule-reversal-compliance.html
Five European banks have a total of
4.8 billion euros ($6.8 billion) of derivatives contracts with
the Italian government, according to data released for the first
time by European regulators.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  has the most with contracts valued at 1.78
billion euros, followed by  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA with 1.13 billion
euros, Dexia with 777 million euros,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  with 661
million euros and Intesa Sanpaolo SA with 458 million euros,
according to data from the European Banking Authority’s stress
tests last week. Banks had 326 billion euros in all of such
deals with Italian central and local governments, the EBA said.  The disclosures, required for the first time in this year’s
stress tests, shed light on an aspect of government debt
management that is subject to only limited disclosure. In 2001,
Greece used off-market swaps with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to
conceal the true size of its borrowings. Repeated revisions of
Greece’s figures, beginning in 2009, spurred a surge in
borrowing costs that pushed the country to the brink of default
and triggered a region-wide debt crisis.  The data also show indirect exposure through contracts with
third parties, such as banks, that reference specific countries,
indicating how banks were managing their exposure to countries
through derivatives. Of the 2 trillion-euro total exposure to EU
governments reported by the EBA, derivatives account for 263
billion euros. Most of the contracts have a maturity of one year
or less. The longer-dated positions include debt management-
related swaps with sovereign counterparties, and credit default
swaps between banks that reference the sovereigns.  For more, click here.  EU’s Reding Proposes Freezing Order for Business-Debt Lawsuits  The European Union proposed a law allowing companies to
freeze debtors’ assets using court orders from any EU
jurisdiction, in a move that lawyers have said will raise bank
costs and liabilities.  The proposal will help businesses recover as much as 600
million euros ($863 million) a year that’s now being written off
to avoid costly cross-border lawsuits, EU Justice Commissioner
Viviane Reding said today in a statement.  The EU’s legislative arm said last year that 63 percent of
cross-border debt can’t be recovered because of a network of
diverging national laws and the high cost of winning separate
freezes in each country where assets are located. The European
Parliament must approve the law before it’s implemented in the
bloc’s 27 member countries.  Under the proposed law, debtors’ assets must be held by
banks until national courts can issue orders in a claimant’s
favor.  When the proposal was outlined in a paper last year,
lawyers said it could trigger lawsuits against banks both by
claimants and debtors alleging a freeze was implemented too
slowly or without enough evidence.  Matthew Newman , a spokesman for Reding, said the proposal
isn’t “reinventing the wheel,” because it’s only expanding on
similar laws on the books in EU member countries.  U.S. FTC Chairman Endorses More Information Sharing With China  U.S. Federal Trade Commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz said
he hopes to increase information sharing with Chinese government
agencies in regard to cross-border mergers and acquisitions.  He made the remarks to reporters in Beijing today.  Leibowitz, who arrived in the Chinese capital yesterday, is
in Beijing to sign a Memorandum of Understanding on Antitrust
and Antimonopoly Cooperation between the U.S. Department of
Justice and the FTC and the Chinese Ministry of Commerce, the
National Development and Reform Commission and the State
Administration for Industry & Commerce.  Compliance Action  Ex-Credit Suisse Offshore Banking Head Charged in Tax Case  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s former head of North America
offshore banking, Markus Walder, was among seven bankers charged
with conspiring to help clients in the U.S. evade taxes through
secret bank accounts.  The seven bankers and an eighth executive were charged July
22 in an amended indictment in federal court in Alexandria,
Virginia. Four of the Credit Suisse bankers were previously
charged. The new defendants include Walder, Susanne D. Ruegg
Meier, a former Credit Suisse manager, and Andreas Bachmann,
another former banker at the Zurich-based lender, Switzerland’s
second largest.  The indictment increases pressure on Credit Suisse, which
said July 15 that the Justice Department notified it that was a
target of a criminal probe over former cross-border private
banking services to U.S. customers. Walder and others helped
U.S. customers evade income tax through accounts not declared to
the IRS, according to the indictment. In the fall of 2008, the
bank maintained thousands of secret accounts for U.S. customers
with as much as $3 billion in assets, according to a Justice
Department statement.  “Credit Suisse is committed to a fully compliant cross-
border business,” the bank said in a statement July 22.
“Subject to our Swiss legal obligations and throughout this
process we will continue to cooperate with the U.S. authorities
in an effort to resolve these matters.”  The case is U.S. v. Adami, 1:11-cr-00095, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  SEC Watchdog Probes Agency’s Oversight of Stanford Receiver  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s internal
watchdog is investigating the agency’s dealings with the man
hired to recover funds for victims of R. Allen Stanford’s
alleged fraud amid claims the court-appointed receiver has taken
too much money for himself.  Inspector General H. David Kotz said July 22 he is
reviewing the SEC’s oversight of the receiver, Ralph Janvey,
after getting a complaint that the bulk of recovered funds has
been used to cover legal bills.  Janvey was appointed in 2009 after the SEC sued Stanford
and a federal grand jury indicted him on 21 criminal counts
alleging that he used his Houston-based  Stanford Financial Group 
and an Antigua-based banking unit to defraud clients through the
sale of certificates of deposit. Stanford, who has denied the
allegations, is being held without bail while awaiting trial.  Kachroo Legal Services P.C.  of Cambridge, Massachusetts,
released a statement July 22 accusing Janvey of “malfeasance
and waste” in his management of collected assets and claiming
there was an “inside deal” between Janvey and the Stanford
investor committee to approve high fees.  Kevin Sadler, Janvey’s attorney, said that the allegations
are “patently false and completely irresponsible.” Janvey, who
hasn’t been contacted by Kotz, will respond “promptly and
appropriately” to any request, Sadler said in a statement.  SEC spokesman  Kevin Callahan  declined to comment.  Whirlpool Sets Aside Up to $306 Million for EU Antitrust Probe  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s largest appliance maker, set
aside as much as $306 million to cover a possible fine by
European Union regulators probing price-fixing of refrigerator
compressors.  Whirlpool said in a regulatory filing July 22 that “based
on recent developments, a minimum loss amount can now be
reasonably estimated” to cover defense costs and expenses tied
to a  European Commission  investigation into its  Embraco  unit.  “We establish accruals only for those matters where we
determine that a loss is probable and the amount of loss can be
reasonably estimated,” the company, based in Benton Harbor,
Michigan, said in the filing.  Under EU law, companies can be fined as much as 10 percent
of annual sales for breaking antitrust rules. The commission has
made fighting cartels a priority in recent years. EU
investigators raided producers of refrigerator compressors in
2009.  Embraco last year paid $91.8 million to settle a similar
U.S. Justice Department probe.  EU Approves Spanish Aid for  Caja De Ahorros Del Mediterraneo (CAM)   Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo obtained European Union
approval for Spanish state aid, the European Commission said in
a statement on its website today.  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo, known as CAM, is a
savings bank that attracts deposits and provides commercial
banking services in Spain.  Earlier, CAM’s board approved making a request to the Bank
of Spain for 2.8 billion euros ($4 billion) from the country’s
rescue fund, FROB, as part of its recapitalization plan,
according to a July 22 e-mailed statement by CAM.  India Panel Said to Advise Easing Limits on Wal-Mart, Tesco  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA (CA)  may gain access to
the retail market of the world’s second most-populous country
after an Indian government panel was said to have recommended
easing restrictions on the industry.  Overseas companies could be allowed to own as much as 51
percent of stores that sell more than one brand if they invest a
minimum of $100 million, a panel of bureaucrats in New Delhi
recommended on July 22, according to a finance ministry
official. Pantaloon Retail Ltd., India’s largest listed store
owner, rose to its highest level in more than six months in
Mumbai today.  India currently allows overseas companies 51 percent
ownership in retail shops selling only one brand and 100 percent
in wholesale stores. The world’s two biggest retailers Wal-Mart
and Carrefour, who already operate wholesale outlets in India,
seek to sell in a market that  Business Monitor International 
estimates will be worth $396 billion this year and may double to
$785 billion in 2015.  The cabinet will make a decision after consultations are
held, said the person, who had direct knowledge of the matter
and declined to be identified before an announcement.  Wal-Mart may open hundreds of retail shops in the country
if the rules are changed,  Raj Jain , chief executive officer of
its India venture, said last year.  Arti Singh, senior vice-president for corporate affairs for
Wal-Mart’s India operations in New Delhi, declined to comment
before seeing an official notice.  For more, click here.  Fake Apple Stores Ordered by Chinese City to Close After Probe  Chinese authorities shut two unauthorized  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  stores
in Kunming for operating without business licenses, a newspaper
run by the southwestern city’s government reported.  Investigators also examined three other stores that used
Apple’s logo without the company’s permission, though they were
found to have operating permits, according to the Dushi Shibao
newspaper report posted today on the Kunming government’s
website. The findings were part of a probe into more than 300
electronics vendors in the city, according to the report.  The move comes about a week after the “ BirdAbroad ” blog
began posting photographs of a fake Apple store complete with an
acrylic staircase and crew of blue-shirted sales staff, showing
the extent some dealers will go to profit from booming demand
for iPhones and iPads. The company’s network of more than 900
retail outlets has failed to keep up with demand, spurring
customers to buy from vendors not sanctioned by Apple.  The city government hasn’t received any requests from Apple
on the matter, and the company declined to comment on the
findings, according to the report.  For more, click here.  Courts  U.S. Appeals Court Rejects SEC Proxy Access Regulations  A U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rule making it
easier for shareholders to oust board members was rejected by a
federal appeals court.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  July 22 agreed with
the U.S.  Chamber of Commerce  and the  Business Roundtable  that
the SEC failed to study the cost of fighting a challenge from
shareholders.  The rule, which was mandated by the Dodd-Frank financial-
regulatory overhaul enacted last year, would have allowed
investors or shareholder groups that own at least 3 percent
stock for three years to put their own board nominees on proxy
statements.  “The commission inconsistently and opportunistically
framed the costs and benefits of the rule; failed adequately to
quantify the certain costs or to explain why those costs could
not be quantified; neglected to support its predictive
judgments; contradicted itself; and failed to respond to
substantial problems raised by commenters,” U.S. Circuit Judge
Douglas Ginsburg wrote for the three-judge panel.  Some of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s Dodd-
Frank rules may face legal challenges following the decision.  The SEC rule written last year was meant to open company
boards to candidates pushed by major shareholders. The defeat
comes as the SEC works on more than 100 rules it was assigned by
the Dodd-Frank overhaul enacted a year ago.  Among federal regulators, the SEC faces the largest share
of Dodd-Frank rule-writing. About 70 of the rules have been
proposed so far, SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro told lawmakers at a
hearing July 21. The law requires the agency to study each
rule’s effect on “efficiency, competition and capital
formation.”  The SEC declined to comment on whether Dodd-Frank rules are
legally vulnerable. On the July 22 ruling, Kevin Callahan, an
SEC spokesman, said the commission is “reviewing the decision
and considering our options.”  The case is Business Roundtable v. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 10-1305, U.S. Court of Appeals, District of Columbia
(Washington).  For more, click here and click here.  SEC Auction-Rate Comments May Aid Investors, Lawyer Says  Auction-rate securities holders seeking to win back part of
the $330 billion they’ve invested, may get help from a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission legal brief supporting claims
that Merrill Lynch & Co. rigged the moribund market, a lawyer
involved in the case said.  Jonathan Levine, a lawyer with Girard Gibbs in San
Francisco, made the remarks in a telephone interview. His firm
represents investors in the appeal.  Merrill Lynch, now part of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , failed to
adequately inform investors of its alleged role in “propping
up” auctions, the SEC said in the brief, filed in the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in  New York . If the
court agrees with the SEC’s argument, it may lead to the
reversal of other dismissed auction-rate cases alleging brokers
and dealers rigged the market, Levine said. “Now it depends on
whether the court accepts the view of the SEC.”  Lawsuits by the agency and state regulators led to the
return of at least $60 billion to individual investors.  Bill Halldin , a Merrill spokesman, declined to comment.  Katrina Cavalli, a spokeswoman for the securities trade
group, said that its brief “speaks for itself.”  The case is Colin Wilson v. Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc., et
al., No. 10-1528, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
New York, New York.  For more, click here.  Pheim Asset, Tan Lose Bid to Overturn Singapore Stock Ruling  Tan Chong Koay and Pheim Asset Management Sdn, ordered to
pay S$250,000 ($207,000) each in Singapore’s first civil lawsuit
for market manipulation, failed in their bid to overturn the
ruling.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore , which sued Tan and his
asset manager Pheim, said the fund manager intended to create a
“false and misleading appearance” in the city’s stock market
by buying shares of  United Envirotech Ltd. (UENV)  in the last three
trading days of 2004.  The “pattern of trading was not consistent with either the
actions of an investor who genuinely believed that UET shares
were undervalued or those of a ‘contrarian’ investor,” a panel
of three judges including Chief Justice Chan Sek Keong wrote in
a 45-page ruling July 22.  Singapore’s central bank, which has tightened the rules for
financial misconduct after the global credit crisis in 2008, has
said it won’t tolerate “window dressing” and allow fund
managers to think they can get away lightly.  Pheim and Tan denied the stock-rigging claims and said they
wouldn’t have risked their livelihood and business. They had a
“genuine commercial intent to buy the shares,” at issue in the
market manipulation case, Vinodh Coomaraswamy, their lawyer had
argued.  The Pheim Group, including its Singapore operations,
manages about $1.8 billion.  The case is Tan Chong Koay v. Monetary Authority of
Singapore, CA186/2010 in the Singapore Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 