-- 
Singapore’s GIC Says Economic, Investment Climate Remains ‘Challenging’

-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 
2011-07-26T04:31:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/economic-climate-still-challenging-gic.html
The Government of  Singapore 
Investment Corp., the city’s sovereign wealth fund, said the
investment environment remains “challenging” as inflation
risks increase and the recovery of developed nations falter.  GIC, manager of more than $100 billion of Singapore’s
reserves, said in its annual report today that it boosted
investments in emerging economies to tap their potentially
higher returns, and cut back in Europe and the U.S.  “The sustainable recovery of the developed economies
remains uncertain, while the emerging economies face challenges
in restraining inflationary pressure and currency
appreciation,” Chief Investment Officer Ng Kok Song said in an
e-mailed statement today that accompanied the report. “GIC will
continue to respond nimbly to this challenging environment.”  The fund, the biggest investor in companies including
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , seeks to boost assets to tackle
future crises and meet the island state’s long-term spending
needs. GIC is ranked the world’s eighth-largest state  investment
company  by  Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute .  The 20-year so-called nominal annualized rate of return was
7.2 percent in U.S. dollar terms as of end-March, said GIC,
established 30 years ago. The annualized real rate of return, in
excess of global inflation, rose to 3.9 percent in the year
ended March from 3.8 percent in the previous 12 months, it said.  Shorter-Term Returns  The investment company also published five-year and 10-year
nominal rates of returns for the first time. Annual returns in
the past five years, net of fees, was 6.3 percent, with a
volatility of 12 percent, while the 10-year rate was 7.4 percent,
with a volatility of 10 percent, according to the statement,
released along with the annual report.  Emerging-market stocks made up 15 percent of its holdings
from 10 percent a year earlier, while those in developed
economies fell to 34 percent from 41 percent, it said in the
report. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 16 percent in
the year ended March, compared with the 11 percent advance in
the MSCI World Index, which tracks developed nations.  GIC’s holdings in equities dropped to 49 percent from 51
percent, it said, while bonds made up 22 percent now, from 20
percent a year earlier. So-called alternative investments were
little changed at 26 percent of its portfolio, with real estate
increased to 10 percent from 9 percent, it said. Cash made up 3
percent from 4 percent a year earlier.  U.S., Europe  European holdings were reduced to 28 percent from 30
percent, and those in the U.S. were lowered to 42 percent from
43 percent, it said. Within those markets, it increased its
investments in  Latin America  and the U.K. Asia had the biggest
boost, rising to 27 percent from 24 percent, it said.  Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state-owned investment
company, said July 7 the value of its assets climbed 3.8 percent
to a record S$193 billion ($160 billion) in the year ended March.
The company, which had a 10-year total shareholder return of 9
percent and 7 percent over five years, also spent more in
emerging markets including China,  India ,  Brazil  and  Mexico .  Citigroup, UBS   GIC’s long-term view on Citigroup and UBS “remains
unchanged” even with higher  capital requirements  that are
likely to reduce the banks’ future profitability, the Business
Times reported today, citing Ng’s comments at a press conference
yesterday.  The bulk of GIC’s European investments is in the U.K.,
 France  and  Germany , while those in countries affected by the
regional debt crisis including Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  are
“negligible,” the newspaper reported, citing Ng.  China , Brazil,  Taiwan ,  South Korea , India and  South Africa 
accounted for almost three-quarters GIC’s investments in
emerging-market stocks, the newspaper said, citing Ng. More than
half of the real estate investments are in China,  Japan  and
increasingly in India, according to the report.  Tony Tan  Tony Tan, GIC’s deputy chairman and executive director,
resigned July 1 as he seeks to run for president of the city-
state as an independent candidate. He was a former deputy prime
minister of Singapore.  If elected, Tan, 71, will be the city-state’s third
president since the constitution was amended 20 years ago to
allow elections for what had been a largely ceremonial role. The
change also gave the president the responsibility to safeguard
the national reserves and veto rights on government budgets and
key appointments to public office during the six-year term,
according to the government’s  website .  The next financial crisis may come five years later and be
more severe than the one in 2008, the Business Times reported on
July 20, citing Tan. The global financial system avoided a
“total collapse” in 2008 because of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
intervention, the newspaper said, citing Tan. The U.S. is GIC’s
biggest investment destination, making up 33 percent of its
holdings, down from 36 percent a year earlier, the fund said in
its report today.  `Serious' Damage  President Barack Obama yesterday warned that the nation’s
burgeoning deficit threatens to do “serious” damage to the
economy and pressured Congress to reach a compromise on a deal
to raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and address future
shortfalls.  “I suspect confidence will take a fairly big hit,”
 Stephen Halmarick , the Sydney-based head of investment markets
research at Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which
oversees about $150 billion, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “You would see people downgrading the growth
forecast pretty aggressively for the second half of this year
and into 2012.”  GIC named Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong as
chairman on May 31, succeeding his father  Lee Kuan Yew . The
elder Lee, who also resigned from the cabinet in May to make way
for younger leaders, took the role of senior adviser at the
sovereign wealth fund.  Prime Minister Lee’s People’s Action Party won the May
general election with the smallest margin of popular votes since
independence. The party that has ruled Singapore for more than
five decades won 81 out of 87 parliamentary seats and 60.1
percent of the popular vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  