-- 
Medco Investor Claims Express Scripts Deal Undervalues Stock

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-07-25T22:17:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/medco-investor-claims-29-1-billion-express-scripts-deal-undervalues-stock.html
A Medco Health Solutions Inc.
shareholder filed a lawsuit claiming the company’s purchase by
 Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  for $29.1 billion undervalues the stock.  Medco directors and executives breached their duty to get
the best price before announcing the $71.36-a-share offer in
cash and stock last week, according to a lawsuit filed July 22
in federal court in  Newark ,  New Jersey , by investor Rena Nadoff.
Nadoff asked a judge to block the deal.  Investors in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey-based Medco will
get $28.80 in cash and 0.81 of an  Express Scripts  share for each
Medco share they own, the companies said in a statement in
announcing the deal. Buying Medco gives St. Louis-based Express
Scripts the scale to become dominant among companies that handle
drug benefits for corporate and government clients.  “The negotiation and structure of the proposed acquisition
are the result of an unfair process, result in the denial to
company shareholders of important information regarding the
value of their shares of Medco, and do not provide adequate
value for Medco,” according to the complaint. It seeks to
proceed as a group, or class-action, lawsuit.  Jennifer Luddy, a spokeswoman for Medco, said the comments
of Medco Chief Executive Officer David Snow “documenting the
many advantages of this merger and the unanimous vote of our
board speak for themselves.”  “These types of actions are common, expected, and nearly
universally without merit,” she added.  A spokesman for Express Scripts, Brian Henry, declined to
comment.  The case is Rena Nadoff v.  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS) ,
U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 