-- 
EDF, Areva Agree on Reactors, Fuel in Bid to Boost Relations

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-07-25T17:50:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/edf-areva-agree-on-reactors-fuel-in-bid-to-boost-relations-1-.html
Areva SA (CEI)  and Electricite de  France 
SA agreed to cooperate on nuclear reactors and fuel as part of
efforts by the government to improve relations between the
country’s two biggest atomic companies.  “It’s new momentum for the French nuclear industry, which
faces challenges,” Areva Chief Executive Officer Luc Oursel
said today. He spoke alongside Industry Minister Eric Besson and
EDF CEO  Henri Proglio  before the first meeting of a panel to
boost France’s ability to compete for nuclear export contracts.  Areva and EDF agreed to cooperate on 1,650 megawatt EPR-
model nuclear reactors, on extending the life of France’s
current plants and on fuel and waste storage, Besson said in a
speech. The officials were visiting Areva’s reactor factory at
Saint Marcel in the Burgundy region southeast of Paris.  Areva and EDF will sign a strategic accord in September
after cooperation on a third-generation 1,000 megawatt reactor
is sealed, Besson said. The French government in January 2010
warned Areva and EDF to end a dispute over the treatment of
nuclear fuel, with Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  summoning the
chiefs of the two companies to his offices.  A deal “will allow the French nuclear industry to be more
successful in operating plants in France and to meet demands of
countries that want to get nuclear plants,” Besson said.  EDF’s Proglio isn’t pushing to increase its stake in Areva,
the minister said in a separate radio interview. Areva’s former
chief  Anne Lauvergeon  previously said such a proposal would hurt
her company’s ability to win EDF competitors as clients.  “Henri Proglio wants to cooperate more with Areva, which
is what will be put in place today through important agreements,
but I don’t think he’s pressuring to invest in Areva,” Besson
said. The prospect of EDF raising its stake “is neither being
considered now, nor is it forbidden in the future,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 