-- 
Egypt Two-Year Bond Beats Estimate, May Fuel Foreign Demand: Arab Credit

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-07-26T15:01:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/egypt-two-year-bond-beats-estimate-may-fuel-foreign-demand-arab-credit.html
Egypt ’s success in selling two-year
debt for the first time since February’s popular revolt may
encourage foreign investors to buy shorter-term securities ahead
of parliamentary elections in the fourth quarter.  The Ministry of Finance raised all 3 billion pounds ($503
million) it sought yesterday, selling bonds with a coupon of
13.10 percent, lower than the 13.25 percent median estimate of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The government also sold 2
billion pounds in three-month bills, as average yields fell 18
basis points to 11.76 percent, central bank data showed.  “Despite the uncertainty of what’s been happening in
central Cairo, the bond markets have actually been pretty
resilient,” said John Bates, the head of fixed income at
London-based Silk Invest Ltd, referring to resurgent protests in
the capital. “All in all, we’re reasonably positive on the
long-term picture for Egyptian bonds.”  Demand from international investors may help Egypt reduce
borrowing costs that climbed to the highest level since 2008
after the revolt ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  in February,
according to EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, a Cairo-based investment
bank. The extra yield investors demand to hold Egypt’s debt over
U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 310 yesterday according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI
Global index. Middle Eastern debt yields on average declined
three basis points to 339, the data show.  Sell-Off  Foreign investors sold 34.7 billion pounds of Treasury
bills in the first four months this year, according to central
bank data. The sales left local lenders to finance the country’s
budget deficit. The government forecasts the gap will narrow to
8.6 percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year that
started this month, from an estimated 9.5 percent in the
previous fiscal year.  Anti-government protests demanding faster political change
and a possible “ currency risk ” may still deter foreign
investors from re-entering the market before the elections,
Moustafa Assal, the Cairo-based head of fixed income at
investment bank Beltone Financial Holding SAE, said. Non-
deliverable forwards for the pound rose to 6.62 per dollar this
month, reflecting an expected 10 percent decline in the
currency’s value.  “To the foreigners, it’s not just the issue of political
instability, but also collecting back their dollars,” Assal
said.  Renewed Protests  A clash over the weekend between supporters of the military
council and protesters demanding the release of political
prisoners and speedy trials of Mubarak and his officials left
more than 300 people injured. Egypt’s default risk surged five
basis points yesterday to 332, according to data provider CMA
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. The contracts fell
to 330 basis points today, according to CMA.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a
government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The Egyptian pound, down 2.6 percent this year, was little
changed over the past month at 5.9574 against the dollar as the
decline in the country’s international reserves slowed. The
currency’s performance as well as the “flatness of the yield
curve” on the government’s debt securities, “helps to make
shorter duration paper more attractive,” said Ashok Parameswaran, senior emerging markets analyst at Invesco Inc. in
 New York .  ‘Risk-Reward Trade’  “From an investor perspective I would prefer to be at the
short end as I think the risk-reward trade off is more
favorable,” Gabriel Stern, a London-based senior economist at
Exotix Ltd, who rated the three-month and six-month securities a
“buy” on July 11, said yesterday by e-mail. “Risks are more
likely to materialize after the elections and if the new
government bows to public pressure to raise spending.”  Yields on government bills dropped after the central bank
canceled the first auction of the fiscal year when investors
demanded returns it deemed too high.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent 10-year dollar bond
maturing in April 2020 retreated five basis points today to 5.56
percent, according to Bloomberg prices, the lowest level since
Jan. 14, the day when Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
fled his country after a popular uprising, triggering Egypt’s
revolt 11 days later.  Economic Expansion  The average yield on Middle East sovereign bonds declined
seven basis points last week to 4.93 percent, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle East Conventional Sovereign US Dollar
Bond Index.  Slowing economic expansion is prompting banks to buy
government debt to deploy their deposits, Beltone’s Assal said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “Demand for loans is very
low so they have nowhere to invest but T-bills and the  interbank
market ,” Assal said.  The Ministry of Finance plans to raise 11 billion pounds
from treasury-bill sales through July 31, according to central
bank data on Bloomberg. The ministry aims to sell 6 billion
pounds from the sale of six-month and one-year securities on
July 28 and five billion pounds of three-month and nine-month
notes three days later, the data show.  Sputtering Economy  Growth may slow to 1.6 percent this fiscal year from an
estimated 2.6 percent in the previous year, according to a
Bloomberg survey this month. The government is forecasting an
acceleration of 3.2 percent  The ratio of loans to deposits at Egyptian banks was 50
percent at the end of the first quarter, according to central
bank data, compared with 93 percent in the  United Arab Emirates ,
home to 7 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves. Local-
currency deposits rose 0.8 percent in May to 648.6 billion
pounds, central bank data show.  Yesterday’s sale shows that domestic investors are betting
on a stable transition of power from the ruling military council
to an elected government, said Khalil El Bawab, the Cairo-based
director of fixed income at EFG-Hermes.  “We’re betting that things might get better from where we
are standing,” he said yesterday. “There’s ample liquidity in
the market and players are betting that these levels won’t be
seen again, so investors are locking in high yields.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  