-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall on U.S. Debt Talks; Shanghai Composite Tumbles

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-07-25T20:50:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/emerging-market-stocks-fall-on-u-s-debt-talks-shanghai-composite-tumbles.html
Emerging-market stocks declined,
with the benchmark index falling for the first time in a week,
as a stalemate over raising the U.S. debt limit raised concerns
of a default that could threaten the global recovery.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 0.4 percent to
1,148.18 as of 4:28 p.m. in  New York . The Shanghai Composite
Index tumbled 3 percent, the most since January, after a high-
speed train collision killed at least 36 people.  Mexico ’s IPC
index dropped 0.8 percent,  Taiwan ’s Taiex Index lost 0.9 percent
and Brazil’s Bovespa index slid 0.5 percent.  “It seems like there’s going to be a deal” on the debt
ceiling, said  Uri Landesman , who oversees about $1 billion as
managing general partner of New York-based hedge fund Platinum
Partners LLP. “But if there isn’t and the U.S. defaults, it’s
going to be cataclysmic, and emerging-markets are the high-beta
play on the S&P right now.”  High-beta refers to volatile stocks. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index retreated 0.6 percent.  Republicans and Democrats prepared dueling plans for
raising the U.S. debt ceiling, unable to break a partisan
stalemate over how to tackle the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt
and quell market concerns the nation is lurching toward a
default as early as Aug. 2 and jeopardizing its AAA credit
rating. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  today reassured
 China , the top holder of American debt, that the U.S. will
resolve the impasse, while People’s Bank of China adviser Xia Bin said he remains confident an agreement will be reached.  Greece  Rating  Greece’s sovereign credit rating was cut three steps by
Moody’s Investors Service, which said the European Union’s
financing package for the debt-laden nation implies
“substantial economic losses” for private creditors.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has fallen 0.3 percent this
year, trailing a 4.8 percent gain in the MSCI World Index, a
measure for developed markets. Stocks in the developing nation
index are valued at 11 times estimated profits, less than the
multiple of 12.8 times for developed shares.  Braskem SA,  Latin America ’s largest petrochemicals
producer, fell 2.9 percent in Sao Paulo on concern that global
economic growth is slowing. Grupo Mexico SAB, the country’s
largest mining company, declined after saying it has been
notified of a lawsuit by Grupo Aeroportuario del Pacifico SAB
seeking an injunction to block its offer to buy shares of the
airport group known as GAP.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s biggest
shipbuilder, and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s largest
automaker, led Korean exporters lower.  Inspection  CSR Corp. and China CNR Corp., China’s biggest train
makers, tumbled after the government ordered a two-month
inspection of rail safety and fired three officials following
the crash near Wenzhou city. PetroChina Co., the nation’s
largest oil company, sank after  oil prices  fell. Petroleo
Brasileiro SA gained after  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil company
said it will raise as much as $91 billion in debt and sell
assets of up to $13.6 billion as part of its 2011-2015 spending
plan.  In  Seoul , Hyundai Heavy retreated 3.2 percent to the lowest
close since Dec. 13, while Hyundai Motor decreased 1.1 percent.
Samsung Techwin Co., a security-system provider, tumbled 7.9
percent, the most since October 2008, after Daewoo Securities
Co. cut its share-price estimate by 14 percent.  CSR dropped 8.9 percent and China CNR tumbled 9.7 percent.
Gem-Year Industrial Co., which makes carriage components,
plunged 10 percent.  The government will slow railway investment as it pays more
attention to safety and travelers switch to other transport,
according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. and Barclays Plc.  The accident occurred on July 23 near the eastern city of
Wenzhou when a train lost power after reportedly being struck by
lightning and was rear-ended by a second train, the state-run
Xinhua News Agency said, citing the provincial emergency office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  