-- 
Temple-Inland Investor Files Suit Over Takeover Bid

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-24T21:55:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/temple-inland-investor-sues-over-rejection-of-international-paper-offer.html
(Corrects sequence of events in fourth paragraph of story
published July 25.)  Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN)  was sued by an
investor seeking to force the producer of cardboard shipping
boxes to consider a $3.31 billion takeover offer by
 International Paper Co. (IP)   Temple-Inland directors’ “utter refusal” to hold talks is
unreasonable and not in the best interests of the company or its
shareholders, investor Alan R. Kahn said in a complaint filed
today in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington. Kahn seeks to
represent all Temple-Inland shareholders in his request for a
court order directing the company to consider and respond in
good faith to acquisition offers.  “The director defendants’ selfish refusal to negotiate
deprives Temple-Inland’s stockholders of the certainty of
receiving a significant immediate cash premium versus waiting
years for a recovery in building products,” lawyers for Kahn
said in the complaint. “Their rejection also ignores that the
economic recovery is slow, which implies a slow recovery in
packaging markets.”  International Paper, the world’s largest pulp and paper
maker, took its buyout offer directly to shareholders on July
12. Temple-Inland said six days later the $30.60-a-share cash
bid “grossly undervalues” the Austin, Texas-based company.  ‘Unrealistic’ Expectations  Tom Ryan, a spokesman for  Memphis , Tennessee-based
International Paper, said in an e-mail on July 18 that Temple’s
board had “unrealistic” price expectations.  Kahn argued in his complaint that it would be in the best
interest of Temple-Inland shareholders for the company to take
advantage of the proposed transaction or at least negotiate
actively with International Paper.  “The director defendants’ stubborn refusal jeopardizes any
chance that Temple-Inland shareholders will have the opportunity
to consider a higher per share price offer by International
Paper,” Kahn said in the complaint.  Chris Mathis, a spokesman for Temple-Inland, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the
complaint.  The case is Kahn v. Temple-Inland, CA6702, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 