-- 
Enerbrax Fights Ruling Barring Coconut-Solar Plant From Auctions

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-07-25T16:46:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/enerbrax-fights-ruling-barring-coconut-solar-plant-from-auctions.html
Enerbrax Projetos e Participacoes
SA, a Brazilian developer of a power plant that will generate
electricity from sunlight and coconut shells, is appealing a
ruling excluding it from government-organized energy auctions.  The company says its combination solar-biomass design
should be allowed to compete in the auctions against other power
plants that generate electricity from wind, hydropower, natural
gas or dedicated biomass systems, Helcio Garcia Camarinha,
executive director of Sao Paulo-based Enerbrax, said today in an
interview.  Enerbrax’s power plant would have been the first in the
country to combine both solar and biomass energy systems.  “We will use all our legal resources to participate in
this auction,” Camarinha said. “There’s no legal or technical
justification” behind the regulator’s decision.  Brazil ’s national energy agency Empresa de Pesquisa
Energetica notified the company July 13 that it could not
participate in the auctions scheduled for Aug. 17 and Aug. 18.  “It was decided that Enerbrax’s project didn’t comply with
the auctions’ requirements,” EPE spokesman Oldon Machado said
today by telephone. “Solar is not part of the auctions.”  Enerbrax is building the 50-megawatt project on 400
hectares (988 acres) in the municipality of Coremas in the
northeastern state of Paraiba. It will combine sun-tracking
parabolic reflective panels and a boiler designed to burn
coconut shells bought from local farmers, Camarinha said.  Brazil has six solar plants with a total capacity of 5
megawatts and 412 biomass plants with a total capacity of 8,311
megawatts in operation. It has no plants that combine the two
technologies, according to Brasilia-based electricity regulator
Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in London at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  