-- 
England Moves Closer to No. 1 Cricket Ranking With 196-Run Win Over India

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-07-26T00:35:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/england-takes-three-wickets-today-to-pressure-india-in-first-cricket-test.html
England  moved a step closer to
becoming the world’s top-ranked Test cricket team with a 196-run
win over India in the opening match of their best-of-four series.  Fast bowler  James Anderson  took 5-65, including the key
wickets of  Rahul Dravid , VVS Laxman and  Sachin Tendulkar , as
England bowled India out for 261 at Lord’s in London yesterday.
Stuart Broad finished with 3-57.  England heads to the second match starting in three days in
Nottingham with a 1-0 lead as it seeks to top the International
Cricket Council’s  rankings  for the first time. Third-ranked
England can overtake No. 1 India if it wins the series by two
Tests or more.  “We’re aware that it’s the opening salvo in the series,”
England captain  Andrew Strauss  said at a post-match news
conference. “There’s a lot of cricket still to be played. We
can’t get too satisfied with ourselves and we’ve got to be ready
to go on Friday.”  England will take an unchanged squad into the second Test
at Trent Bridge, a ground where Anderson has taken 28 wickets at
an average of 15.89 runs apiece in four previous matches.  “There was a lot to be pleased about from the opening
Test,” said national selector Geoff Miller. “We saw some
excellent performances with both bat and ball.”  England batted first and racked up 474-8 declared on day
two after rain cut into play. Man of the match  Kevin Pietersen 
scored 202 runs, while India was dismissed for 286 in its reply
on the third day. Matt Prior then cracked his sixth Test century
as England declared its second innings on 269-6, an overall lead
of 457.  Final Session Slump  India, needing what would have been a record fourth-innings
total of 458 to win a Test, began yesterday’s final session on
218-5 and lost its last five wickets for 36 runs.  Anderson had taken the wickets of Dravid, Laxman and
Tendulkar before the tea break. The swing bowler then removed
 Harbhajan Singh  for 12 and Suresh Raina for 78 to complete match
figures of 7-152.  Chris Tremlett and Graeme Swann also took a wicket each on
the final day. Paceman  Zaheer Khan , whose hamstring injury on
day one had reduced India to three bowlers for much of the
match, was not out without scoring.  India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni said the match had
become quite tough after losing Zaheer so early.  “It was very difficult to bowl with three bowlers,” Dhoni
said. “The pitch did not take too much turn on the first two
days and we did not have too many options. So it was quite
difficult in terms of resources.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser in  London  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  