-- 
EPA Maligned by Business Says U.S. Courts, George W. Bush Made Us Do It

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-07-25T04:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/epa-maligned-by-business-says-u-s-courts-george-w-bush-made-us-do-it.html
The Environmental Protection Agency,
the U.S. regulator criticized by business groups for proposing
the most new rules of any agency, says the courts and former
President  George W. Bush  have left it no choice.  Companies are bracing for and complaining about a raft of
requirements with three- to four-year deadlines for compliance.
American Electric Power Co. of Columbus,  Ohio , has said new EPA
standards would force it to spend as much as $8 billion through
the end of the decade, cut about 600 jobs and shut five coal-
fired  power plants . Electricity rates might rise, new oil-
drilling stall and cement factories close, according to trade
groups.  Prospects for getting the EPA to ease up, as sought by
companies and lawmakers in the Republican-led House, are limited
by the agency’s stand that it’s obeying judicial instructions.
EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson “has made clear that we will be
guided by the science and the law in all the steps we take to
protect Americans’ health,” spokesman  Brendan Gilfillan  said in
an e-mail on July 21.  Jackson said in March at a House hearing that “our major
rules are either under court-ordered deadline” or “the result
of settlements or litigation.”  The EPA is reviewing 28 regulations for implementation. The
Health and Human Services Department, with 21 under review, is
second, while the Agriculture Department is No. 3 with 15,
according to President Barack Obama’s Office of Management and
Budget.  Seven of the eight EPA rules labeled most onerous by the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the country’s largest business lobby,
are tied to legal action and four of those stem from orders to
rework Bush-era regulations.  More Stringent  The agency is taking advantage of judicial pressure to be
more stringent than legislators intended, according to its
detractors.  “The EPA hasn’t been shy about using regulations to impose
broad mandates and restrictions so controversial that similar
provisions couldn’t even pass the Democratic-controlled
Congress,” Bill Kovacs, the Chamber’s senior vice president of
environment, technology and regulatory affairs, said in an
interview.  Republican lawmakers are seeking to counter the flurry of
rulemaking with bills, some with bipartisan support, to limit
the EPA’s authority and funding and to delay deadlines for
compliance.  A measure to cut the EPA’s budget to $7.1 billion, or 20
percent below Obama’s request, “reins in out-of-control
regulation,” Representative Mike Simpson, an Idaho Republican
who is chairman of the House Interior and Environment
Appropriations subcommittee, said in a July 6 statement.  Lawsuits Encouraged  Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican and chairman of the
House Energy and Commerce energy subcommittee, said last week
during a hearing that the EPA “is actually out there
encouraging these lawsuits.” He estimated that 400 to 500 of
them are currently pending against the agency.  Environmentalists such as Melinda Pierce, legislative
director for the San Francisco-based  Sierra Club , said groups
and states sued because the EPA botched or ignored issues during
“years of inaction” under previous administrations.  Agency analyses say new rules would prevent tens of
thousands of premature deaths.  Five of the eight EPA regulations targeted by business
directly concern coal-fired power plants operated by such
companies as American Electric and Atlanta’s  Southern Co. (SO)  These
aim to reduce emissions contributing to climate change, smog,
soot pollution and acid rain, and propose to alter the way power
plants use water and handle coal-related waste.  Other standards described by companies as too expensive
affect cement manufacturers such as  Texas Industries Inc. (TXI)  and
industrial boilers.  Here’s a look at the eight rules and the debate over them.  Ozone  Agency Action: A proposed stricter limit for ground-level
ozone that must be met by local governments would target a main
ingredient of smog.  Where It Stands: EPA Administrator Jackson has said she
expects to meet a July 29 court deadline for issuing final
standards. States and environmental groups challenged a 2008
rule imposed under Bush on grounds that the agency ignored a
scientific advisory panel’s recommendations.  The Debate: Trade groups have said most counties won’t be
in compliance, which may halt expansion of oil and gas drilling
because they will stop issuing new air permits needed for the
work.  Jack Gerard , chief executive officer of the  American
Petroleum Institute , said in an interview the proposal will be
“one of the most expensive EPA regulations.”  While the EPA estimates that the rule will cost $90
billion, the API has said the cost may be as high as $1 trillion
a year from 2020 through 2030. Clean-air advocates say the new
rules protect the public from health hazards including heart and
lung disease.  Greenhouse Gases  Agency Action: Following Congress’s failure to enact a
carbon-dioxide cap, the EPA began restricting emissions from
industrial polluters in January. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in
2007 that the EPA had authority under the  Clean Air Act  to
regulate greenhouse gases blamed for  climate change .  Where It Stands: The agency plans a second wave of
regulations for power plants by Sept. 30 and for oil refineries
by December, as part of a settlement with environmental groups
and states.  The Debate: The agency determined that greenhouse gases
pose a hazard to public health and welfare. Republicans and some
Democrats in Congress have said the rules threaten the economy
and are seeking to delay or block them.  Cross-State Air Pollution  Agency Action: The EPA issued new standards this month
aimed at cutting U.S. pollutants that can drift across borders
and cause acid rain, soot and smog. The rule affects 27 states
from  New York  to  Texas  and allows a limited emissions-trading
program.  Where It Stands: The rule replaced Bush-era regulations
rejected in 2008 by a federal court that said they weren’t
adequate to protect communities against emissions from nearby
states.  The Debate: The standards will lead to as much as $280
billion in yearly health benefits, according to the EPA. The
American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, an industry group
based in Alexandria,  Virginia , has said the rule, along with a
pending EPA regulation to cut air toxics from power plants, will
cost providers $17.8 billion a year from 2011 through 2030 and
increase electric bills 11.5 percent on average in 2016.  Mercury, Arsenic  Agency Action: A March EPA proposal would restrict release
of toxic pollutants such as mercury, arsenic and acid gases from
coal-and oil-fired power plants  Where It Stands: The proposal clears the path for the first
U.S. standards for these pollutants. The EPA was under court
order to act after a federal court declared Bush’s mercury
standard unlawful.  The Debate: The EPA has said the rule would generate health
and economic benefits of as much as $140 billion a year. Energy
companies such as American Electric say they won’t have enough
time to comply with the new standard and Whitfield has said
he’ll introduce legislation to extend the deadlines. The
Electric Reliability Coordinating Council, a Washington-based
coalition of utilities, has said the proposal could cost as much
as $100 billion.  Cooling Water  Agency Action: The EPA proposed rules in March designed to
protect fish from getting sucked into cooling-water systems at
more than 1,200 power plants and factories.  Where It Stands: The agency acted in accordance with terms
of a settlement with environmental groups suing under the  Clean
Water Act . A final rule must be signed by July 27, 2012.  The Debate: The EPA has said the rule will save about 615
million fish and shellfish a year at an annual cost to industry
of $384 million. Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, has said the new regulations may cost utilities as
much as $300 million per site for coal-fired plants.  Coal Ash  Agency Action: In the one instance not spurred by
litigation, the EPA proposed the first nationwide rules last
year for disposal of ash from coal-fired power plants. These
were a response to a 1-billion gallon sludge spill in  Tennessee 
more than two years ago. The agency is considering two competing
approaches. One would treat the waste, which contains arsenic,
mercury and cadmium, as non-hazardous, and the other would call
for a “special waste listing.”  Where It Stands: This month, the House Energy and Commerce
Committee approved legislation that would prevent the EPA from
declaring coal ash hazardous.  The Debate: The agency said regulating the substance would
protect drinking water and promote safe ways to recycle it into
building material. Republican lawmakers say that categorizing
ash as a danger could lead to the loss of more than 300,000
jobs.  Industrial Boilers  Agency Action: The EPA issued final rules in February to
cut emissions of toxics such as mercury from industrial boilers,
including at refineries, chemical manufacturers and factories.
The agency met a federal court deadline after it failed to win a
delay because of company complaints the requirements weren’t
practical.  Where It Stands: The EPA is redoing the standards and plans
to update them by the end of October.  Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, introduced a
bill last week to postpone the rule for at least 15 months. Some
Democrats support a similar Republican-backed bill in the House
giving companies five years to comply.  The Debate: Reduced pollution will prevent 2,600 to 6,600
premature deaths, the agency has said. The regulations in their
current form are still too costly because businesses are trying
to rebound economically, according to the  National Association
of Manufacturers  in  Washington .  Cement  Agency Action: The EPA limited mercury from cement-plant
smokestacks last year following legal challenges to U.S.
standards set during the  Bush administration . The limits weren’t
as strict as the original Obama-administration proposal in 2009,
according to the Portland Cement Association, which represents
manufacturers.  Where It Stands: The agency is reconsidering parts of the
rule.  The Debate: The EPA has said its regulation will cut
mercury and particulate-matter releases from kiln-heating clay,
limestone and shale by 92 percent starting in 2013. The agency
estimated the value of environmental and health benefits at $6.7
billion to $18 billion, and the cost to companies at $950
million a year. The cement trade group said the rules may force
some cement-factory closures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  