-- 
Equity Bank of Kenya First-Half Profit Jumps by 57% as Loan Income Climbs

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-07-25T08:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/equity-bank-of-kenya-first-half-profit-jumps-by-57-as-loan-income-climbs.html
Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , Kenya’s second-
biggest lender by market value, said first-half profit jumped 57
percent as it boosted lending after adding more than a million
customers. The shares headed for the biggest gain since April.  Net income grew to 4.7 billion shillings ($52 million), or
256 cents per share, in the six months through June, from 3
billion shillings, or 163 cents, a year earlier, Chief Executive
Officer James Mwangi said at a presentation today in Nairobi,
the capital. Net interest income, the money banks earn from
interest charges on loans, climbed 26 percent to 6.97 billion
shillings, he said.  “Our success has been driven by prudent risk management
practices, increased efficiency and innovation,” Mwangi said,
without elaborating.  Banks in  Kenya , East Africa’s biggest economy, have boosted
profit by charging loan rates that at an average of 13.9 percent
are more than double the level of the official rate set by the
country’s central bank. At the same time, commercial lenders pay
depositors an average of 1.38 percent on their savings,
according to the Central Bank of Kenya’s website.  “We have no intentions, short term, of reviewing interest
rates,” Mwangi said.  Shares Advance  Shares of the Equity Bank gained for the first time in 17
trading sessions, advancing 50 cents, or 2.2 percent, to 23
shillings at 11:05 a.m. in Nairobi.  “The performance is in line with our expectations,” Renaldo D’souza, an analyst at Nairobi-based Genghis Capital Ltd., said
in an interview today. Equity’s income growth was likely slowed
down by soaring inflation and rising  interest rates , he said.  Inflation in Kenya accelerated to 14.5 percent in June, the
highest in more than two years, from an average of 4.1 in 2010,
according to data from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics.  Equity Bank plans to open units in neighbouring Tanzania
and  Rwanda  in the third quarter, Mwangi said. It will open 10
outlets in Rwanda and five in Tanzania, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  