-- 
Meredith Whitney Wins If We Lose Meaning of Default: Joe Mysak

-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 
2011-07-25T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/meredith-whitney-wins-if-we-lose-meaning-of-default-joe-mysak.html
Cutting the hours a public library
is open isn’t a municipal-bond default.  Disbanding a city’s symphony orchestra isn’t a municipal-
bond default.  Asking retirees to pay more for health-care coverage isn’t
a municipal-bond default.  The picture of state and local finances is murky enough
without analysts and observers muddying it by expanding the
definition of municipal-bond default to include -- well, just
about anything and everything, as some people have suggested.  Let’s be clear. A municipal-bond default occurs when a
borrower fails to repay debt on schedule. Sometimes a borrower
is considered technically in default if it violates terms of its
covenant with bondholders. If the borrower promises not to
invade reserve funds, for example, and then does so in order to
repay debt, that’s a default, even though the bondholders may be
paid in full.  Terms of Debate  This all goes back to  Meredith Whitney ’s appearance on “60
Minutes” last December. That was when the terms of the default
debate began shifting.  If you go back and view the  segment  that was watched by
millions of Americans, you’ll see that correspondent Steve Kroft
asks about municipal bonds, and analyst Whitney predicts there
will be a “spate” of defaults, 50 to 100, and these will amount
to “hundreds of billions of dollars.” This will all come to pass
in the next 12 months, she said.  Airy Talk  That’s what millions of Americans heard. Whitney wasn’t
talking airily about defaults on the social contract or on
promises made to retirees. No. This call and the subsequent
controversy surrounding it were specifically about the debt
securities sold by states and localities to borrow money.  It would be nice if we could somehow proscribe the use of
the word “default,” and limit it to the promises attached to
municipal bonds. We can’t. Webster’s New World College
Dictionary defines default as: “failure to do something or be
somewhere when required or expected.”  But we can, and must, limit the word’s use when it comes to
Whitney’s prediction about the municipal-bond market. The
analyst was referring to something very particular when she
appeared on television.  Out of Time  Bloomberg News carried a story this month about how time is
running out on Whitney’s prediction. After all, in the first
half of 2011, municipal-bond defaults were way down.  So far this year, $746 million in munis have defaulted,
according to the Distressed Debt Securities newsletter. In the
first half of 2010, the figure was $2.3 billion, and in 2009 it
was $4.89 billion.  A lot of people think Whitney should be held to account for
this prediction, and look forward to her saying, on New Year’s
Eve, or perhaps even on “60 Minutes,” I was wrong, and here’s
why, or maybe saying, I didn’t know what I was talking about.
Punditry being what it is, that’s unlikely. Pundits crow, but
rarely eat crow.  Unfortunately, there are those who, for reasons of their
own, now seek to expand the definition of default after the fact
and so extricate the analyst from a predicament of her own
making.  And you know what? If default is redefined to include
everything under the sun, then Meredith Whitney wins.  ( Joe Mysak  is editor of Bloomberg Brief’s daily Municipal
Market. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  