-- 
European Stocks Halt Rally on U.S. Debt Stalemate; Lenders Drop

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-25T15:40:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/european-stock-futures-drop-on-u-s-deficit-stalemate-banks-may-be-active.html
European stocks halted a four-day
rally, after President Barack Obama and Congress failed to reach
a deal to raise the U.S. debt limit, increasing concern that the
world’s largest economy may default.  Banks declined after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
 Greece ’s sovereign- credit rating . Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl
and Intesa Sanpaolo both tumbled more than 8 percent.  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA)  slid 1.8 percent after  Europe ’s biggest discount
airline reported first-quarter earnings that missed estimates.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.2 percent to
271.47 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge rallied last
week after euro-area leaders agreed to a second bailout for
Greece. The Stoxx 600 has still fallen 6.8 percent from this
year’s high in February amid concern that Europe’s fiscal crisis
will derail the economic recovery.  “There will be a last-minute settlement to the U.S. debt
crisis,” said Jeremy Batstone Carr, head of research at Charles
Stanley & Co. in London. “Perhaps the reason we are not seeing
a profound selloff suggests to me that maybe some investors are
actually looking to take on some risk on the assumption that the
U.S. authorities will find a solution.”  Republicans and Democrats prepared dueling plans for
raising the U.S. debt ceiling, unable to break a partisan
stalemate over how to tackle the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt.  Boehner Debt Plan  House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  will pursue a two-step
debt-limit extension that Obama has threatened to veto, fueling
concern the nation is lurching toward a default that will
jeopardize its AAA credit rating.  Mohamed A. El-Erian, whose Pacific Investment Management
Co. is the world’s largest manager of bond funds, warned that
the U.S. government may lose its credit rating even if lawmakers
reach a plan to avoid a default.  National benchmark indexes declined in every western
European market, except  Germany .  France ’s CAC 40 Index lost 0.6
percent, while the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  slid 0.1 percent.
Germany’s DAX Index advanced 0.3 percent.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  paced a selloff in banks after Moody’s downgraded
Greece by three steps to Ca from Caa1, saying that the European
Union’s financing package for the debt-laden nation implies
“substantial economic losses” for private creditors.  Dexia,  BNP Paribas (BNP)   Belgium’s largest lender to local governments plunged 8.2
percent to 1.95 euros. Popolare di Milano, which was downgraded
today to “underweight” at JPMorgan Chase & Co., slumped 8.3
percent to 1.54 euros and France’s BNP Paribas SA sank 4.5
percent to 46.64 euros. Intesa Sanpaolo slumped 8.3 percent to
1.61 euros, the bank’s biggest drop in two years.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
Italy’s biggest lender, tumbled 7.1 percent to 1.23 euros.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  also retreated, falling 4.2
percent to 45.1 pence in London. The Sunday Telegraph said the
lender is considering an initial public offering for the 632
bank branches it wants to sell after getting only two formal
bids. The newspaper didn’t cite anyone.  People with knowledge of the sales process today said
Britain’s biggest mortgage lender has extended a deadline to bid
for the branches. NBNK Investments Plc and Co-Operative Bank Plc
submitted offers this month, said the people who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. Virgin Money Holdings
U.K. Ltd. has held talks with Lloyds about the composition of
the asset sales, a third person said.  Bank of Ireland rallied 1 percent to 10.2 euro cents after
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said the state agreed to sell a
stake in the Dublin-based lender to fewer than 10 unnamed
institutional investors. The private sector will hold a minimum
of 68 percent in the bank following the share sale this week.  Bank of Ireland  Noonan said the state wants to maintain about a 15 percent
stake in Bank of Ireland to recover future investments in the
lender.  “We expect as time goes by there will be a significant
upside in Bank of Ireland,” Noonan said in an interview with
Dublin-based broadcaster RTE today. The 1.12 billion-euro
investment in the lender by the investors is a “strong signal”
of confidence in Ireland, he said.  Ryanair dropped 1.8 percent to 3.40 euros in Dublin, its
first decline in five days. The airline said first-quarter
earnings were little changed at 139.3 million euros after higher
fuel costs eroded gains from rising passenger numbers. That
missed the average analyst estimate of 156.8 million euros,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Fiat Industrial SpA rallied 5 percent to 9.47 euros after
the truck and tractor unit spun off from Fiat SpA in January
raised its 2011 forecast for earnings before interest, taxes and
one-off gains or costs to more than 1.5 billion euros.  Roche, Leoni Advance  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  climbed 2 percent to 145.90 Swiss francs
after BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research raised its
recommendation for the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs to
“buy” from “neutral,” citing an attractive valuation.  Leoni AG (LEO)  jumped 5.5 percent to 42.22 euros after Germany’s
biggest maker of automotive electrical cables raised its full-
year earnings forecast again. The company now expects to report
sales of about 3.6 billion euros in fiscal 2011 and Ebit of
about 230 million euros.  Invensys Plc (ISYS) , the British maker of railway software and
washing-machine controls, climbed 3.7 percent to 314 pence, the
stock’s biggest gain since March, after the Times reported the
company may pay 500 million pounds ($814.6 million) to divest
its pension plans.  Hansen Transmissions International NV (HSN)  surged 93 percent to
65 pence, the largest gain since its 2007 initial public
offering, after the company agreed to be acquired by ZF
Friedrichshafen AG for 66 pence per share, or about 444.8
million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  