-- 
Ex-Credit Suisse Broker’s Case Transferred to Brooklyn

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-25T21:03:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/ex-credit-suisse-broker-butler-s-wire-fraud-case-transferred-to-brooklyn.html
Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker
 Eric Butler , convicted of securities fraud in 2009 and sentenced
to prison, should be prosecuted for wire fraud in Brooklyn, New
York, and not in Manhattan, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge Paul G. Gardephe in Manhattan said the
wire-fraud charges filed against Butler there belong in the
Brooklyn courthouse where he was first tried for fraudulently
selling subprime securities to corporate clients that cost
investors more than $1.1 billion in losses. Prosecutors argued
Butler had been “gaming the system” by attempting to move some
charges into the courthouse in Manhattan, where he worked in a
Credit Suisse office.  While saying he doesn’t think Butler was gaming the system,
Gardephe ruled today in court that it’s “in the interest of
justice” for the case to move back to Brooklyn.  A federal appeals court in June threw out Butler’s
2009  securities-fraud  conviction, saying the Brooklyn court was
the wrong venue for the charge. At the same time, the appeals
court upheld convictions for conspiracy to commit wire fraud and
conspiracy to commit securities fraud.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Dan Spector in Brooklyn, who was
prosecuting the case in Manhattan, declined to comment after
court on the ruling.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Brooklyn
U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch, also declined to comment.  ‘Interest of Justice’  The case is now back with U.S. District Judge  Jack B. Weinstein , who sentenced Butler to five years in prison in
January 2010 after his first trial.  “As the judge said, the interest of justice has been
served and the matter is now before Judge Weinstein,” Butler’s
lawyer, Steven F. Molo, said after court. “We’ll take the
matter before him.”  Butler and co-defendant  Julian Tzolov  were charged with
conducting what prosecutors said was an illegal scheme in which
they falsely told clients their products were backed by
federally guaranteed student loans and were a safe alternative
to bank deposits or money-market funds.  The products were actually linked to auction-rate
securities and generated high commissions for the two, witnesses
testified during Butler’s trial.  Tzolov, who fled to  Spain , was apprehended and returned to
New York. He pleaded guilty and agreed to testify as a
prosecution witness against Butler. Tzolov was sentenced to four
years in prison in June.  The case is U.S. v. Butler, 1:09-cr-00685, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 