-- 
Texas Instruments’ Profit Forecast Misses Some Estimates

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-07-25T22:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/texas-instruments-quarterly-forecast-misses-some-estimates-shares-slide.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog chips, forecast third-quarter profit that fell
short of some analysts’ estimates, hurt by sluggish demand for
consumer devices and computers.  Profit will be 55 cents to 65 cents a share, the Dallas-
based company said today in a statement. The midpoint of that
range missed the 64 cents predicted on average by analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas Instruments gets most of its revenue from analog
chips, semiconductors that are key components in everything from
military hardware to digital picture frames. Slow  consumer
spending  has hurt the industry, and now businesses are
threatening to cut expenditures as well, said Tore Svanberg, an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “Consumer is not where it should be and enterprise
spending is starting to fade a bit,” said Svanberg, who
recommends buying Texas Instruments shares on its long-term
growth prospects. “CEOs of chip companies think this is a one-
quarter correction. We’re taking a more conservative view.”  Texas Instrument’s stock was little changed in extended
trading after the report. The shares, down 3.2 percent this
year, had fallen 31 cents to $31.47 earlier on the New York
Stock Exchange.  ‘Lukewarm’ Production  Third-quarter sales will be $3.4 billion to $3.7 billion,
the company said. Analysts had projected $3.61 billion.  “Production at some computing and consumer manufacturers
appears lukewarm even though we’re heading into the back-to-
school and holiday seasons,” Chief Executive Officer  Rich Templeton  said in the statement.  On the plus side, Texas Instruments is gaining market share
in analog semiconductors and embedded processors -- chips that
handle tasks in industrial equipment. The company also is
rebounding from the Japanese earthquake and tsunami, which
damaged its plants. Customers in that country are beginning to
restart production and need Texas Instruments chips.  “We are gaining the traction that we’ve been talking
about,” Chief Financial Officer Kevin March said in an
interview. Still, concerns about the economy have led some
consumer-electronics companies to curb orders, at a time when
they would be increasing them, he said. “No one can ignore the
glaring headlines. We’ve gotten lackluster outlooks from our
customers in the computer and consumer segments.”  Second Quarter  Second-quarter net income declined to $672 million, or 56
cents a share, from $769 million, or 62 cents, in the same
period a year earlier, the company said in the statement. Sales
fell 1 percent to $3.46 billion.  The company had previously lowered the high end of its
second-quarter forecast, citing  Japan  and a decline in orders
from Nokia Oyj, its main customer for wireless chips. Texas
Instruments is exiting the wireless business to focus on the
analog market, which it expects to deliver more profitability.  The company was once the dominant supplier of digital-
signal processors for mobile phones. In recent years, Qualcomm
Corp. has wrested control of that market.  As more everyday items such as dishwashers and cars get
advanced electronic functions, the need for analog chips is
growing. The semiconductors can regulate a device’s power, and
convert touch and sound into electronic signals.  Texas Instruments announced plans in April to buy  National
Semiconductor Corp. (NSM)  for about $6.5 billion, expanding its analog
lineup. That deal has cleared all antitrust reviews everywhere
except  China , Texas Instruments said today. It expects the
transaction to close this year.  Texas Instruments ranked second behind  Santa Clara ,
California-based  Intel Corp . among U.S. chipmakers in total
sales last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  