-- 
FAA Loses $30 Million a Day as Tax-Collecting Powers Lapse

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-07-25T22:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/faa-loses-30-million-daily-since-taxing-authority-ended-june-22.html
The  Federal Aviation Administration 
said it’s losing $30 million a day in taxes because Congress let
the agency’s revenue-raising authority expire.  Airlines can’t collect excise taxes on tickets, fuel and
cargo until Congress passes legislation to extend the FAA’s
authority,  Randy Babbitt , the agency’s administrator, said today
on a conference call from  Washington . The FAA operated through
July 22 under a series of 20 short-term extensions, after its
multiyear funding legislation expired in 2007.  Most major airlines have raised base ticket prices by at
least 7.5 percent to capture the forgone federal revenue,  Rick
Seaney , chief executive officer of  FareCompare.com , a website
that tracks ticket prices, said in an e-mailed report.  “With the added ticket revenue and the reduction in  sales
tax  on  jet fuel , this could be a major boon for airline bottom
lines if the issue goes unresolved for several weeks,” Seaney
wrote in an e-mail.  The deadlock in Congress continued today as Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said he doesn’t plan to
bring a House-approved FAA extension bill to a Senate vote.  Senate Democrats oppose the House measure to continue FAA
funding through Sept. 16 because it would end taxpayer support
for flights to 13 small-town airports, including one in Reid’s
home state.  Reid said Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation
Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat,
and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas, the panel’s ranking
Republican, agreed with him.  Negotiating a Compromise  Rockefeller today called on House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee Chairman John Mica, a Florida
Republican, and House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican,
to begin negotiating with the Senate by July 27 on a compromise
for a long-term FAA funding measure.  Rockefeller said in an e-mailed statement he hopes Mica
“will finally make a good-faith effort to get going here in
order to restart funding for the FAA, help thousands of workers
around the country who are going without a paycheck and keep
vital airport renovation projects moving forward.”  Mica responded that “to put people back to work and
restart FAA programs,” the Senate needs to adopt the House’s
FAA extension bill.  “If the Senate cannot agree to a simple provision, which
it approved earlier this year, to eliminate excessive subsidies
between $1,358 and $3,720 per ticket at three airports, then we
don’t need” to meet, Mica said in an e-mailed statement.  Furlough Impact  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said on the call that
he would meet today with White House officials to discuss
renewing the agency’s authority. The taxes, which go into the
airport and airway trust fund, are used for airport improvements
and salaries of workers deemed non-essential, such as computer
specialists and administrative assistants.  The agency furloughed about 4,000 employees in 35 states
and contractors have stopped work on airport modernization
projects and new air-traffic control towers. Air-traffic
controllers, considered essential employees, remain on the job.  Travelers booking flights since the authority lapsed are
“generally paying the same ticket prices as they did last
week,”  Steve Lott , a spokesman for the  Air Transport
Association , the airlines’ Washington-based trade association,
said in an e-mail.  “This short-term additional revenue for airlines, which
does not mean a fare increase for consumers, benefits all
stakeholders-customers, employees and investors by temporarily
improving tiny industry margins to better cover costs and enable
airlines to invest in their product and service,” Lott said.  Airport Inspections  Inspections of five airports that need to be certified to
handle  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new 747-8 jumbo jet, the largest plane the
Seattle-based company has built, are “in jeopardy” and may not
be completed by a Sept. 1 deadline, Babbitt said. Certification
of the jet isn’t at risk,  Laura Brown , an FAA spokeswoman, said
by telephone.  The agency also halted $370 million in contracts with
Jacobs Engineering Group, based in Pasadena,  California , for
design, engineering and planning services for existing and
future air-traffic facilities, according to the  FAA .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  