-- 
Famine in Horn of Africa May Lead to a Damaged Generation, UN Agency Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-25T16:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/famine-in-horn-of-africa-may-lead-to-a-damaged-generation-un-agency-says.html
Famine in the Horn of  Africa  that
has killed tens of thousands of people risks leaving a
generation of physically and mentally stunted children, the
 United Nations ’  World Food Programme  said.  “We face the prospect of a generation of children whose
brains and bodies will be damaged if we cannot reach them with
lifesaving nutritional support,”  Josette Sheeran , the WFP’s
executive director, said in a meeting in Rome today.  The  east African region  has suffered from two poor rainy
seasons that have caused one of the worst droughts since 1950-
51, according to the UN’s  Food and Agriculture Organization . The
UN needs $1.6 billion in the next 12 months to provide aid to
the region, FAO Director General Jacques Diouf said.  Malnutrition levels are soaring, and the WFP considers the
famine in Somalia and nearby countries the most critical food
emergency in the world, according to Sheeran, who visited the
region yesterday. Somali women trying to reach refugee camps in
 Kenya  are abandoning the bodies of their dead children along the
roadside, Sheeran said.  The UN last week declared a  famine  in two regions of
Somalia and estimates 12 million people in  Djibouti ,  Ethiopia ,
Kenya, Somalia and  Uganda  require emergency assistance.  ‘Life-and-Death Situation’  “The World Food Programme is currently reaching 11 million
people throughout the Horn,” Sheeran said. “I was in
Mogadishu, where we’re reaching 300,000 people, but thousands of
people are arriving every day. We are in a life-and-death
situation. I literally saw dozens of children who would not make
it.”  Children have half-formed brains at birth and the remaining
formation takes place in the first three years of life, a period
when nutrition is key, according to Sheeran. Food prices in
 Somalia  have more than tripled from a year ago because of
scarcity, she said.  UN agencies need $300 million in the next two months for
emergency aid, according to Diouf. The FAO has also called for
$120 million in emergency agricultural assistance.  The  World Bank  said it will provide more than $500 million
to assist drought victims in the famine region that may be used
to rebuild livestock herds and help farmers resume planting for
the next harvest.  Financial Assistance  European Union countries and the U.S. are in no position to
give financial aid, unlike Persian Gulf nations, according to
Jeffrey Sachs, an economist and adviser to UN Secretary General
Ban Ki-Moon.  “We have two regions that are on the verge of default,
let’s be clear,” Sachs said. “There is no money there. If
we’re serious about mobilizing adequate resources in a short
time, I hope we look to the Gulf states. That’s the only place
where the money is today.”  Military conflict in Somalia is aggravating the effects of
drought, according to Mohamed Ibrahim, the country’s deputy
prime minister. Somalia is one of the most dangerous places for
WFP work, and the agency has lost 14 relief workers there since
2008, Sheeran said at a press conference in  Rome .  “The fragility of the state and the enduring conflict,
which hinder the supply of basic necessities, makes the
situation deteriorate faster than anyone can imagine,” Ibrahim
said at the Rome meeting.  Food Security  The famine shows the need to invest in agriculture and help
developing economies improve food security, French Agriculture
Minister Bruno Le Maire said.  France , which holds the presidency
of the Group of 20 countries this year, called the Rome meeting.  “World public opinion has seen these images before, has
seen other famines before,” Le Maire said. “I clearly see the
trend toward resignation and indifference. France considers that
hunger is a scandal of our times. If we don’t take the necessary
decisions, hunger will be the scandal of tomorrow.”  Governments and aid donors have neglected agricultural
research, and farmers need better crops that are adapted to
 climate change , said Kanayo Nwanze, president of the
International Fund for Agricultural Development.  “In this part of the world, drought is becoming ever more
frequent,” Nwanze said. “With drought comes hunger,
desperation and death. If we do not act now to build this
resilience in anticipation of the next drought, we will have
failed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 