-- 
Fiat Industrial Raises Targets as Quarterly Profit Jumps

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-07-25T14:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/fiat-industrial-raises-2011-targets-as-quarterly-profit-jumps.html
Fiat Industrial SpA, the truck and
tractor business spun off from Italian carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  in
January, raised its full-year forecast as growth at the Iveco
commercial-vehicle brand propelled a 53 percent earnings gain.  Second-quarter trading profit, or earnings before interest,
tax and one-time gains or costs, advanced to 530 million euros
($760 million) from 346 million euros a year earlier, the Turin-
based company said today. Profit beat the 449 million-euro
average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue
rose 11 percent to 6.28 billion euros.  Fiat Industrial, whose main assets are Iveco and
agricultural-equipment manufacturer CNH Global, said trading
profit in 2011 will exceed 1.5 billion euros and revenue will
reach about 24 billion euros. That compares with forecasts in
April of as much as 1.4 billion euros in trading profit and
about 22 billion euros in sales. Fiat Industrial rose to a nine-
week high in Milan trading after the earnings release.  European truckmakers have been reporting earnings growth
this year as the region’s  vehicle market  has expanded. Second-
quarter net income at Gothenburg, Sweden-based  Volvo AB (VOLVB) , the
world’s No. 2 truckmaker after  Daimler AG (DAI) , beat analysts’
estimates as deliveries rose in  Europe  and  North America .  Scania
AB (SCVB) ’s profit rose 2.4 percent as growth in truck sales in Europe
made up for a decline in  Brazil .  “Fiat Industrial raised targets earlier than expected,
following a strong second quarter,” David Arnold, a London-
based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said today in an e-
mail. “The guidance should help the shares recover some of the
ground they’ve lost recently.”  Iveco’s trading profit more than doubled to 135 million
euros as revenue rose 16 percent due to a recovery in major
European markets and sales in  Latin America . The truck unit will
shut a bus plant in  Spain  and sell a bus factory in  Italy  to DR
Motor Company SpA, Fiat Industrial said in a slide presentation.
CHN’s trading profit jumped 45 percent to 381 million euros as
revenue increased 9.5 percent.  The spinoff of Fiat Industrial from Fiat SpA is part of a
strategy by  Sergio Marchionne , head of both companies, to allow
each manufacturer to focus on a narrower range of products and
develop partnerships. Turin-based Fiat SpA is taking over U.S.
carmaker Chrysler Group LLC and reached a majority stake as of
July 21.  Arguments for Separation  Marchionne, 59, has said that different earnings cycles,
capital requirements and returns on capital argued for the
separation of Fiat’s industrial and automaking operations. That
contrasts with the strategy at Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler,
which groups its Mercedes-Benz luxury-car operations and truck
brand in a single company.  Fiat Industrial rose as much as 4.6 percent to 9.40 euros,
the highest intraday price since May 20, and was up 3.5 percent
as of 4:15 p.m. The stock is also up 3.5 percent from its
opening price of 9 euros on Jan. 3, when it began trading.  “The market underestimates the potential scope for
operational gearing in the trucks business as well as the
attractive structural growth story at CNH,” Alasdair Leslie, a
London-based analyst at UniCredit SpA with a “buy”
recommendation on Fiat Industrial stock, said on July 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  