-- 
Boeing 747-8 May Face Airport Curbs With FAA Inspections Idled

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-07-25T17:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/five-airports-may-be-delayed-on-747-8-certification-faa-says.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new  747-8 , the biggest
plane the company has ever built, may be able to land at fewer
airports when it enters service if a deadlock persists in the
 U.S. Congress  over funding the Federal Aviation Administration.  The FAA doesn’t have the money to pay workers who were
inspecting airports that planned to handle the jumbo jet after a
funding bill expired July 22, FAA Administrator  Randy Babbitt 
said on a conference call today. That means five U.S. airports
may not receive certification to handle Boeing’s new jet by the
Sept. 1 deadline, he said.  Boeing has promised Cargolux Airlines International SA that
the first 747-8, a freighter, would be certified and delivered
by the end of September, more than a year later than planned.
The plane-certification work isn’t in jeopardy, said  Laura
Brown , an FAA spokeswoman. Those workers are paid from different
funds than the airport inspectors.  “The airplane itself could still be used, but the customer
would be limited in which airports it could use for some period
of time depending on when this gets resolved,” said Tim Neale,
a spokesman for Chicago-based Boeing. The airports are  New
Jersey ’s Newark,  Chicago ’s O’Hare,  San Francisco , Houston, and
Huntsville,  Alabama .  Cargolux hasn’t yet decided on route schedules for the 747-
8, said Martine Scheuren, a spokeswoman for the Luxembourg-based
freight carrier. Any U.S. airport certification delay can be
accommodated with the company’s existing fleet, she said.  The freight carrier will take delivery in September of the
first of three new 747-8s it expects to receive this year, as
part of an overall 13-plane order mostly meant to replace older
aircraft as they are withdrawn from service, Scheuren said.  The 747-8, the fifth variant of the 41-year-old jumbo jet,
stretches the iconic hump on top and sports new engines and a
longer wing. Deutsche Lufthansa AG expects to receive the first
passenger version at the beginning of next year. The 747-8’s
setback was caused in part when engineers were diverted to the
787 Dreamliner, which is more than three years behind schedule.  That plane, the world’s first composite-plastic airliner,
is still set to be delivered by September as well and won’t be
further set back by the FAA’s furloughs, Neale said July 22.
It’s smaller than the 747-8, so its wingspan doesn’t present any
potential problems for airports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrea Snyder at 
 asnyder5@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  