-- 
Fixed-Rate Sales Dry Up as Investors Brace For Inflation: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-07-25T11:49:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/fixed-rate-sales-dry-up-as-investors-brace-for-inflation-mexico-credit.html
Sales of fixed-rate corporate bonds
in  Mexico ’s local market are in their longest drought in six
months as investors shun the securities on speculation the
central bank will boost benchmark borrowing costs next year.  There have been no fixed-rate offerings in the past six
weeks, the longest stretch since the period ended Jan. 21, while
sales of floating-rate bonds from companies including Banco
Inbursa SA surged more than three-fold this month to 9.7 billion
pesos ($831.7 million), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Variable-rate bonds have accounted for 73 percent of this year’s
112 billion pesos of offerings, putting sales on pace for a
record year.  While inflation is holding near a five-year low, traders
are betting policy makers will raise  interest rates  from a
record low as soon as April as the expansion in  Latin America ’s
second-biggest economy accelerates. A rebound in the U.S.
economy, the destination for 80 percent of Mexico’s exports,
will cause growth to pick up in its southern neighbor, fueling
price increases, said  Alonso Madero , who helps oversee $5.5
billion of debt at Corp. Actinver SAB.  “Investors are protecting themselves against an eventual
rate increase,” Madero said in a telephone interview in Mexico
City. “I am betting on greater economic growth in the U.S.,
which will lead to higher rates.”  Most Mexican companies that sell floating-rate bonds in the
local market lock in a fixed rate by using the swaps market,
Deputy Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said in an interview
in New York last month.  The yield gap between Mexican government inflation-linked
debt due in 2012 and similar-maturity fixed-rate bonds, a gauge
of investor expectations for price increases, swelled 124 basis
points, or 1.24 percentage points, since the end of May to 462
basis points and touched a 17-month high on July 20, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation Outlook  The two-year breakeven rate in the U.S., the world’s
biggest economy, was 1.69 percent, up from 1.53 percent a month
ago. In  Brazil , Latin America’s largest economy, the rate
climbed 43 basis points during the same period to 5.82 percent.  Economists forecast annual inflation in Mexico will quicken
to 3.6 percent by the end of the year from 3.28 percent in June,
according to a July 20 survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.
Consumer prices rose at an annual rate of 3.04 percent in March,
the slowest since May 2006.  Policy makers led by Governor Agustin Carstens kept the key
rate at 4.5 percent on June 8 for the 20th straight meeting, the
only major Latin American country to keep borrowing costs
unchanged in the past year.  Market Demands  “Investors here in Mexico expect rates to go up,” said
Miguel Angel Aguayo, a fixed-income analyst at Grupo Financiero
Banorte-Ixe in Mexico City. “Companies are doing what they have
to do to meet the demands of the market. It’s practically as if
they were saying, ‘What do you like? You like this? OK, I’ll
sell it to you with these characteristics.”  Variable-rate bonds totaled 81.9 billion pesos this year,
up 76 percent from the same period last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Banco Inbursa SA, the banking unit of  Carlos Slim ’s Grupo
Financiero Inbursa SAB, sold 4.9 billion pesos of three-year
bonds to yield 20 basis points over the 28-day TIIE interbank
lending rate on July 21.  ‘More Appetite’  “There’s much more appetite for floating-rate bonds than
for fixed rate,” Luis Frias Humphrey, director of corporate
banking at Inbursa, said in a telephone interview from Mexico
City. “The other thing for the bank is that a good part of our
portfolio is floating rate, so it’s good for us to raise money
in floating rates as well.”  Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte SAB, the airport
operator known as OMA, sold 1.3 billion pesos of floating-rate
bonds maturing in 2016 to yield 70 basis points over TIIE on
July 14.  “OMA decided to sell bonds at a variable rate due to the
attractive level of TIIE and the expectations of economic
stability in the medium term,” Israel Magana, an investor
relations officer with the Apodaca, Mexico-based company, wrote
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Inbursa and OMA said they weren’t using swaps to lock in
rates on those bonds.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 4 basis points
at 7:44 a.m.  New York  time to 132 basis points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Rate Outlook  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 1 basis point to 110, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent if a government or company
fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 11.6631 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in April fell five basis points to 5.09 percent.  Traders have pushed back forecasts for interest-rate
increases 10 times this year as slumping U.S. growth and
declining food prices restrain inflation.  Fund managers are moving into floating-rate bonds too early
because the central bank will wait until the second half of 2012
to raise rates, said Benjamin Souza, who manages 53 billion
pesos ($4.5 billion) at San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico-based
Grupo Invercap SA.  ‘Too Early’  “You buy floaters when you’re afraid rates are going to go
up,” Souza said in a telephone interview. “It’s too early.”  The  U.S. economy  will expand more than 3 percent in the
second half of the year after growing about 2 percent in the
first half, according to the median forecast of 80 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. U.S. inflation was 3.6 percent in the 12
months through June.  Industrial production in Mexico rose 4.6 percent in May
from a year earlier, more than the median estimate for a gain of
3.7 percent from 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The economy
will grow as much as 5 percent this year after a 5.4 percent
expansion in 2010 that was the fastest in a decade, according to
the central bank.  “The good news on inflation has already passed us by,”
Corp. Actinver’s Madero said. “We won’t be surprised to see the
data pick up as economies become more dynamic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net 
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  