-- 
Food Prices to Stay High Amid Underinvestment, Climate Change, IFAD Says

-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-07-25T02:49:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/food-prices-to-stay-high-amid-underinvestment-climate-change-ifad-says.html
Global food prices will remain high
as underinvestment in agriculture over decades has left supplies
unable to meet demand, according to a  United Nations  agency.  “We are just depleting our stocks and now we have this
high  population growth ,” Kanayo F Nwanze, president of the
International Fund for Agricultural Development, said in an
interview.  “Prices won’t come down overnight. They are going
to stay high for some time to come.”  Global food costs tracked by the United Nations increased
in June for the 10th time in the past 12 months, staying near a
record on higher rice, sugar and dairy prices, while meat
reached an all-time high. Aid to agriculture dropped to 4.3
percent of total assistance in 2008 from 18 percent in 1979,
according to  IFAD  data.  “Food price crisis, food price hikes or food price
volatility is not just a simple consequence of shortage of food
because of weather conditions and  climate change ,” Nwanze said
in an interview on July 22 in Seoul. “A primary cause is we’ve
disinvested in agriculture over decades.”  Nwanze has urged the global community for more investments
in rural development to help meet growing food demand led by
emerging economies including  China ,  India  and Brazil. The 165-
member nation agency works to combat rural poverty and hunger by
providing low-interest loans and grants to developing countries.  Rice, the staple food for about half of the global
population, has surged 65 percent in the past year on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Corn, used in food and livestock-feed,
has jumped 78 percent.  World Population  The United Nations has said that by 2050,  food production 
must increase by 70 percent to feed an estimated world
population of 9 billion people, up from almost 7 billion this
year.  “The middle class is growing, their demand for better food
is growing and they want more meat, which takes more grains,”
Nwanze said. “Who is going to feed us in 2020?”  World grain stocks will probably slide for a second year in
the 12 months through June 2012, dropping to a four-year low, as
corn consumption outpaces production and dry weather hurts wheat
prospects, the International Grains Council forecast in April.  “Climate change will compound the whole issue of  food
security ,” Nwanze said. “The world is yet to understand
implications of the impact of climate change,” he said. “We
are not investing enough money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in  Seoul  at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  