-- 
Ford’s ‘Fraudulent’ Tactics Warrant New Acceleration Trial, Judge Rules

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T18:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/ford-must-face-new-trial-in-sudden-acceleration-suit-judge-says.html
Ford Motor Co., ordered by a  Florida 
judge to face a new trial in a lawsuit it previously won, can’t
dispute that a defect caused an Aerostar van to accelerate out
of control.  A state court jury in Bushnell, Florida, cleared Ford of
liability in February 2010 in a lawsuit brought by a woman who
was left paralyzed from the waist down when the van she was
riding in crashed. The woman, Peggy Stimpson, and her husband
sued Ford in 2004, claiming a defect in the 1991 Aerostar’s
cruise control system could trigger unintended acceleration.
They also claimed the company destroyed or concealed documents
related to the risk.  Circuit Court Judge William T. Swigert reversed the jury’s
verdict and ordered a new trial on damages only. Swigert entered
judgment on liability for Stimpson, barring Ford from claiming
in the new trial that the vehicle wasn’t defective.  “The court finds by clear and convincing evidence that
defendant  Ford Motor Co. (F)  engaged in misconduct justifying the
striking of its answer and the entry of judgment in plaintiffs’
favor on liability,” Swigert said in his July 20 decision.
“These acts of misconduct, individually and collectively,
constitute a calculated plan to interfere with the judicial
system’s ability to adjudicate a matter by improperly
influencing the jury.”  Documents Destroyed  Ford presented testimony at trial it knew was untrue and
withheld information from the public about internal reports on
sudden acceleration incidents, Swigert said. The company also
destroyed some documents, he said.  Swigert said the Stimpsons would be entitled to a new
trial, even if an appeals court reverses his ruling barring
Ford’s defense of a defect. He said the new jury would also
consider whether Ford would owe punitive damages to the
Stimpsons.  Ford will appeal Swigert’s decision,  Marcey Evans , a
spokeswoman for the Dearborn, Michigan-based company, said
yesterday in an e-mail.  “Ford strongly disagrees with Judge Swigert’s decision,
which overturned a unanimous jury verdict in Ford’s favor in
this alleged sudden acceleration case,” Evans said.  The Florida “jury carefully considered all of the evidence
and unanimously agreed with Ford that the accident was caused by
Mr. Stimpson’s unfortunate mistake of pressing the accelerator
pedal instead of the brake, not a defect in the product,” she
said.  ‘Unusual’ Decision  The decision is both “unusual” and “extreme,” said
Joseph Little, a law professor at the University of Florida in
Gainesville, who teaches torts and constitutional law.  “Decisions of juries are sacrosanct,” Little said in a
phone interview today. If a judge decides to reverse a jury’s
decision, it’s usually in the favor of a defendant, he said.  The judge had the right to limit Ford’s defense in a new
trial, Little said. “The courts have a lot of discretion and if
they find that litigants have abused the system in a fraudulent
way, they have the ability to refuse to let the defendant deny
there was sudden acceleration,” he said.  Peggy Stimpson’s husband, Ralph, claimed in court papers
that when he turned on the vehicle’s ignition on Oct. 28, 2003,
and shifted to “drive,” the Aerostar took off without him
hitting the accelerator pedal. Even after applying the brakes,
the vehicle wouldn’t stop accelerating and eventually struck a
utility pole, he said.  ‘Fraudulently Concealed’  The plaintiffs claimed that “Ford had fraudulently
concealed this defect,” Tom Murray, their lawyer, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “The order strikes their defenses.
The case now goes to trial on damages only.”  A new trial won’t happen until after and unless the ruling
becomes final on appeal, he said.  Ford developed a series of service investigation reports
related to sudden acceleration, Swigert said in his 46-page
ruling. Ford deemed these reports as “unrelated to safety, and
thus destroyed them within one year after they were created,”
the judge said. “However, those reports were patently relevant
to safety and thus required by federal law to be kept for five
years.”  Had Ford disclosed these reports, “the government would
have discovered years ago that electronic failures in the cruise
control system is a cause of sudden acceleration,” he said.  ‘Physical Evidence’  Swigert said Ford told the  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration  that there were no components that could cause
sudden acceleration and that if an incident had been caused by a
design failure, “it would leave physical evidence” of multiple
failures.  “These claims were false and are contradicted” by the
service investigative reports, an internal Ford study and
engineering reports commissioned by the company’s technical
affairs committee, Swigert said.  The federal agency found no defects in Ford vehicles
related to sudden acceleration in a 1989 examination. Ford knew
this study was “predicated upon false information,” Swigert
said. “Ford’s copious use of that report throughout the trial
was likewise misleading and fraudulent.”  The case is Stimpson v. Ford Motor Co., 2004-CA-13, Circuit
Court for Sumter County, Florida (Bushnell).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  