-- 
Ford Quarterly Profit May Decline Before Negotiations With UAW Commence

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-07-25T20:07:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/ford-quarterly-profit-may-slip-before-negotiations-with-uaw-commence.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , poised to begin
negotiations with the  United Auto Workers , may report lower
second-quarter profit tomorrow on rising costs for commodities
and developing new vehicles.  Profit excluding some items may have dropped to 61 cents a
share, according to the average of 14 analysts’ estimates, from
68 cents a year earlier. Ford formally begins talks this week
with the UAW, which says workers should share more in Ford’s
turnaround. Last year was Ford’s most profitable since 1999.  Industrywide U.S. vehicle sales slowed in the quarter
because of costlier cars and shortages after the March 11
tsunami in  Japan . Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  is
raising prices for Fiesta subcompacts and Explorer sport-utility
vehicles to offset some of the $4 billion in higher costs for
commodities, advertising and new-product development.  “For Ford, the question is can you sustain the price
discipline as the Japanese manufacturers come back?”  Itay Michaeli , a New York-based analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a
phone interview. Michaeli rates Ford “buy” and predicts
second-quarter profit of 60 cents a share.  U.S. auto sales slowed to a seasonally adjusted annual rate
of 12.1 million in the second quarter from a 13.1 million pace
in the prior three months, according to Autodata Corp., as
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. deliveries tumbled.  Second-quarter profit will be equal or “slightly lower”
than in the first quarter, when Ford earned $2.78 billion before
taxes, Controller Bob Shanks said last month at an investor
conference in  Chicago .  Labor Negotiations  Ford has said it wants to further lower labor costs, which
it estimates are $8 an hour higher than the mostly non-union
factories of foreign automakers and Chrysler Group LLC, which
began its labor negotiations with the UAW today.  UAW President  Bob King  said in a July 22 interview in
Southfield, Michigan, that the union will not be granting
concessions.  “No way,” King said. “It would be the wrong thing to do
to talk about concessions, they’re not needed today. The way
that Ford can make up that cost gap really quickly is to grow
market share and open up more facilities.”  Hourly workers at Chrysler and  General Motors Co. (GM) , as part
of U.S-backed bankruptcies in 2009, agreed not to strike over
wages and benefits during this year’s contract talks. Ford
didn’t seek a U.S. bailout and UAW members at the automaker
rejected the strike ban and arbitration.  King has said workers must be rewarded for the $7,000 to
$30,000 in concessions they gave since 2005 to help U.S.
automakers survive. The UAW’s contracts expire on Sept. 14.  Higher Costs  The cost of developing new models and improving the Ford
and Lincoln brand images will add $2 billion to Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford’s structural costs this year, Shanks said.
Ford’s commodity costs may rise by another $2 billion.  Earnings from the Ford Credit finance unit this year will
be $1.1 billion less because of changes in lease depreciation
and credit-loss reserves, Ford said April 26.  Ford  forecast  a smaller year-over-year production increase
in the second quarter than the 14 percent gain through March.
North American output in the second quarter may rise 8.7 percent
to 710,000 units, and production may fall in all other regions
from the year-earlier period, Ford said.  Earnings in  Europe  may “deteriorate” from the first
quarter on a 10 percent sequential drop in production and
“competitive” promotional activity in the region, Joseph Amaturo, a New York-based analyst at Buckingham Research Group,
said in a July 13 research note. Ford reported an operating
profit of $293 million in Europe for the first quarter.  Product Pricing  Ford fell 14 cents to $13.17 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined 22 percent
this year after a 68 percent gain in 2010.  Investors are concerned that Ford’s “product cadence” is
peaking and that pricing may weaken,  Peter Nesvold , a Jefferies
& Co. analyst in New York, wrote in a July 14 research note.  “We think the new Ford Escape can move the needle
meaningfully,” said Nesvold, who has a “buy” rating on Ford.
“It seems to us that the stock is ascribing a very low
probability on Ford’s ability to continue to get price.”  The average price U.S. buyers paid for Ford’s models rose 6
percent in April and 4 percent in May,  George Pipas , Ford’s
sales analyst, said on the company’s monthly sales conference
calls. Ford’s average transaction price increase exceeded the
industry’s in June, Pipas said July 1, without giving specifics.  Incentives Fall  Ford’s average spending on U.S. discounts and promotions
through June declined 14 percent from a year earlier to $2,551,
according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata.
Industrywide incentive spending fell by 11 percent to an average
of $2,437 per vehicle sold.  A new labor agreement with the UAW that “does not
meaningfully erode” Ford’s financial and operating ability
could contribute to an upgrade to the automaker’s credit rating,
 Fitch Ratings  said in July 6 report.  “Although Fitch expects all three Detroit automakers will
seek to tie compensation more closely with profitability, the
negotiations are likely to be difficult, and labor costs could
rise with the ratification of a new agreement,”  Stephen Brown ,
a Chicago-based analyst at Fitch, wrote in the report, which
also named labor talks as one of its rating risks.  Ford may achieve investment-grade ratings by 2012,  Eric Selle , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. debt analyst in New York, said in
May. Ford is rated two levels below investment grade by Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch, and three levels below by  Standard
& Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  