-- 
Dollar Drops to Record Versus Franc as U.S. Struggles With Debt Deadlock

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-07-26T21:10:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/franc-trades-near-record-high-versus-dollar-on-u-s-debt-ceiling-stalemate.html
The dollar fell against all of its
most-traded counterparts as politicians struggled to agree on
raising the U.S. debt ceiling and reducing its deficit.  The greenback slid below 78 yen for the first time since
March and fell to a record versus the Swiss franc on concern
America may default and face a reduction in its  credit rating .
The pound rallied to a one-month high against the dollar after
the U.K.’s economic growth matched the forecasts of analysts.
Sweden’s currency gained as producer prices increased.  “The dollar is selling off and will weaken every single
day until we have some sort of resolution,” said  Greg Salvaggio , senior vice president of capital markets in
 Washington  at the currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc.
“The bigger issue is not necessarily the deal, it’s the scope
of the deal. Without $3 trillion in cuts or deficit reductions,
there’s a high probability S&P will downgrade U.S. debt, and
then all bets are off.”  The dollar fell 0.5 percent to 77.89 yen at 5 p.m. in  New
York , from 78.29 yesterday, after sliding to 77.83, the lowest
level since March 17. The greenback dropped 0.6 percent to 80.13
Swiss centimes after touching the all-time low of 79.98. The
dollar slid 0.9 percent to $1.4511 versus the euro after
reaching $1.4526, the weakest since July 5.  Sterling climbed 0.8 percent to $1.6405 after touching
$1.6429, the highest level since June 14. The U.K.’s economy
grew 0.2 percent in the second quarter, matching the median
forecast of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Flicker of Hope’  “The market was positioned for a weak number, so this
flicker of hope that the U.K. isn’t about to fall back into
recession helped boost sentiment to sterling,” Kathleen Brooks,
London-based research director at Forex.com, a unit of the
online currency trading company Gain Capital Holdings Inc.,
wrote in a client note today.  The Swedish krona appreciated for the first time in three
days against the dollar and euro as a gauge of inflation rose,
supporting the case for higher  interest rates . Producer prices
advanced 0.1 percent in June after sliding 0.9 percent in May,
 Statistics Sweden  said.  Sweden’s currency climbed 1.5 percent to 6.2434 against the
dollar after reaching 6.2384, its strongest level since July 4.
The krona gained 0.6 percent to 9.0601 against the euro.  “With all the focus on the sovereign-debt issues, you
always had the Scandinavian currencies, which were on better
footing, so they gained some traction,” said  Mary Nicola , a
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “More and
more people are getting bearish on the dollar, given the
uncertainty.”  Dollar Index  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.7 percent to 73.526, from 74.064, after
touching 73.446, the lowest level since May 5.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday the U.S. may
experience a “deep economic crisis” if leaders fail to reach a
compromise on spending cuts and the nation defaults. Obama
blamed the stalemate on a group of Republicans in the House who
are insisting on budget cuts and no tax increases.  “If we stay on the current path, our growing debt could
cost us jobs and do serious damage to the economy,” Obama said
in a prime-time address from the White House.  Democrats and Republicans are struggling to reach an
agreement to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling by
an Aug. 2 deadline.  Standard & Poor’s  reiterated last week that
there’s a 50 percent chance the company will lower the U.S.
credit rating from AAA within three months.  Yen Outlook  Gains in the yen were limited on speculation  Japan ’s
officials will intervene to weaken the currency and aid the
export-driven economy, according to analysts.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said currency moves have
been one-sided and he will continue to watch the yen closely.
 Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said yesterday that the
yen’s strength may hurt the economy and the central bank is
ready to take appropriate action as needed.  There were no signs Japan’s central bank intervened in
 currency markets  today to weaken the yen, according to traders.
Japan’s currency slid from 78.10 per dollar to 78.70 within a
minute at about 11:06 a.m. in  Tokyo  before rising again. Group
of Seven nations sold the yen on March 18 after it reached a
postwar record of 76.25 to the dollar the previous day.  The strategists who predicted this month’s tumble in the
lira say more declines are likely as  Turkey ’s failure to cut its
record current-account deficit erodes investor confidence.  The Turkish lira has dropped 5.3 percent this month, the
biggest fall worldwide, and strategists who predicted this
month’s tumble in the currency say more declines are likely as
Turkey’s failure to cut its record current-account deficit
erodes investor confidence.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Societe Generale SA
say the lira may drop as much as 4.8 percent to 1.80 per dollar.  Turkey’s central bank kept benchmark borrowing costs at a
record low for a sixth straight month on July 21, counting on a
weaker lira to narrow the current-account gap by boosting
exports and making imports more expensive. The strategy has
proven unsuccessful as the 12-month deficit widened to $68.2
billion in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  