-- 
Gasoline Declines as U.S. Lawmakers in Stalemate on Debt Plan

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-07-25T13:13:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/gasoline-declines-as-u-s-lawmakers-in-stalemate-on-debt-plan.html
Gasoline futures declined as
Congress and President Obama failed to reach accord to boost the
debt limit before an Aug. 2 deadline.  Futures slid 1.1 percent as Republicans and Democrats
readied competing plans to address the nation’s $14.3 trillion
debt and calm market concerns that the government would default.
Gasoline gained three of the prior four days on optimism that a
compromise would be reached before the deadline.  “The market is responding to the fact we don’t have an
agreement yet,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at
Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Gasoline for August delivery dropped 3.36 cents to $3.0965
a gallon at 9:08 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio told fellow Republicans
he was determined to force action on a two-step debt-limit
extension that would provide a roughly $1 trillion, shorter-term
increase than President  Barack Obama  has requested, defying a
veto threat and the administration’s warnings of dire economic
consequences.  The Senate’s top Democrat,  Harry Reid , readied his own
proposal, which would hand Obama the full $2.4 trillion in
additional borrowing authority he has requested -- enough to
last through the 2012 elections. The plan is tied to a $2.7
trillion package of spending cuts that would leave Medicare and
Medicaid untouched, according to a Senate Democratic aide.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.2
cent to $3.694 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  Heating oil for August delivery dropped 3.4 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $3.094 a gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  