-- 
Gawker Sues Chris Christie Over Records of Contacts With Fox’s Roger Ailes

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-07-26T01:42:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/gawker-sues-chris-christie-over-records-on-contacts-with-fox-s-ailes.html
Gawker Entertainment LLC sued New
Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  over his refusal to release
records of communications between him and Fox News Chairman
Roger Ailes.  Christie’s office invoked executive privilege in denying a
request by the New York-based blog. The governor had declined to
release any correspondence, call log or schedule entries and
written messages reflecting contacts between the men, according
to the  American Civil Liberties Union  of New Jersey, which
represents Gawker. Today, Christie’s office confirmed a dinner
meeting between the governor and Ailes.  The governor’s response today will likely resolve the
lawsuit, the ACLU said in a  statement  on its website.  “We’re happy to see the matter resolved quickly but remain
concerned that the governor’s office initially issued a blanket
executive privilege claim in response to Gawker’s request for
records,” Frank Corrado, a lawyer representing Gawker
journalist John Cook on behalf of the ACLU, said in the
statement. “Is the governor’s office actually reviewing records
requests from the public, or is it simply using executive
privilege as a carte blanche to deny access to all
correspondence with his office?”  Cook sought the information under  New Jersey ’s Open Public
Records Act after  New York  magazine reported that Ailes, a
former Republican strategist, had encouraged Christie, 48, to
join the U.S. presidential race. The magazine reported Ailes,
71, who is also chief executive officer of Fox, hosted Christie,
a first-term Republican, at a 2010 dinner.  ‘Public Interest’  “A strong public interest exists in knowing whether the
executive in charge of the nation’s most-watched cable news
channel is acting as a political consultant to a prospective
Republican presidential candidate,” Gawker said in the
complaint, filed today in state Superior Court in Trenton, New
Jersey.  Brian Lewis, a Fox spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment on the suit. Fox is owned by Rupert Murdoch’s New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA)   Cook sent a May 25 request to Christie’s office, which
Jeffrey Chiesa, Christie’s chief counsel, denied on June 14,
citing executive privilege. The governor’s office release today
revealed a scheduling note detailing a private dinner at an
undisclosed location in New York on Sept. 11, 2010 involving
Ailes, along with Christie and his wife Mary Pat.  Privilege Claim  The records are covered by executive privilege and the
release was done “without any waiver of the right to assert
that privilege or any other privilege with respect to this
matter or any other matter,” Assistant Counsel Raymond Brandes
wrote. “This office is in possession of no other records
responsive to your request.”  The meeting wasn’t on the governor’s public schedule for
the day.  “There’s clearly a strong executive privilege in New
Jersey, but we want to insure that the privilege is invoked
properly, and when it’s invoked, there is a basis for invoking
it,” said Corrado of Barry, Corrado, Grassi & Gibson, the
president of the board of the ACLU of New Jersey, said in an
interview.  The case is Gawker Entertainment v. Chiesa, MER-L-1919-11,
Superior Court of New Jersey, Mercer County (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 