-- 
Gay Marriage Foes File Lawsuit to Overturn Wedding Law in New York

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 
2011-07-25T20:01:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/gay-marriage-foes-file-lawsuit-to-overturn-wedding-law-in-new-york.html
A  New York  political lobbying
organization founded by a group of pastors sued to overturn the
state’s same-sex marriage law, which took effect yesterday.  New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms , founded in 1982 by
a group of pastors, claims the state senate violated open-
meetings laws and suspended normal voting procedures to keep
opposition senators from speaking before passing the Marriage
Equality Act June 24. It wants the law declared null and void.  The suit seeks “to preserve not only marriage as the union
of one woman to one man, but also our constitutional liberties
by acting as a check on an out-of-control political process that
was willing to pass a bill regardless of how many laws and rules
it violated,” according to the complaint.  The suit was filed in state court in Geneseo in Livingston
County.  The suit also claims senate procedures require a bill be
sent to appropriate committees prior to being placed before the
full senate for a vote and that Gov.  Andrew Cuomo  violated a
mandated three-day review period before the vote.  ‘Without Merit’  “The plaintiffs lack a basic understanding of the laws of
the state of New York,”  Josh Vlasto , spokesman for Cuomo, said
in an e-mail. “The suit is without merit.”  The suit names the state Senate and state Attorney General
 Eric Schneiderman  as defendants. Schneiderman declined to
comment on the lawsuit through his spokesman, Danny Kanner.
Scott Reif, a spokesman for State Senate Majority Leader  Dean Skelos , a Republican from Rockville Centre on suburban  Long
Island , declined to comment in an e-mail.  The suit also notes that Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  pledged to
financially contribute to the re-election campaigns of
Republican Senators who voted in favor of the act and that he
donated $41,200 to four such Republican senators.  The Bloomberg administration declined to comment on the
lawsuit, said the mayor’s spokesman, Stu Loeser.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent company Bloomberg LP.  The suit also names as a defendant the state’s Health
Department, which it says is responsible for adopting rules and
regulations for carrying out the state’s marriage laws.  Jeffrey Gordon, a spokesman for the health department,
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  The case is New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms v. New
York State Senate, 807/2011, New York state  Supreme Court ,
Livingston County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 