-- 
GE Moves 115-Year-Old X-Ray Unit’s Base to China to Tap Growth

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-07-25T15:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/ge-healthcare-moves-x-ray-base-to-china-no-job-cuts-planned.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s health-care
unit, the world’s biggest maker of medical-imaging machines, is
moving the headquarters of its  115-year-old  X-ray business to
Beijing to tap growth in China.  “A handful” of top managers will move to the Chinese
capital and there won’t be any job cuts, Anne LeGrand, vice
president and general manager of X-ray for GE Healthcare, said
in an interview. The headquarters will move from Waukesha,
 Wisconsin , amid a broader parent-company plan to invest about $2
billion across China, including opening six “customer
innovation” and development centers.  The move follows the introduction earlier this year of GE
Healthcare’s “Spring Wind” initiative to develop and
distribute medical products and services in China, GE said in a
 statement  today. More than 20 percent of the X-ray unit’s new
products will be developed in  China , LeGrand said.  The division should have “double-digit” growth rates as
the country converts from film and analog to digital X-ray
technology, LeGrand said. “When you look at a market like
China, it’s primarily analog. So we feel this will also bring
digital technology at an appropriate price-point.”  GE Healthcare, also the world’s biggest maker of magnetic
resonance imaging and cardiac tomography scanners, got about
 $1.1 billion  of its $16.9 billion in sales from China last year.
Health-care device markets are forecast to more than double this
year, according to researcher Epsicom.  ‘Intense Competition’  GE’s increasing focus on the Chinese market will heighten
competition for local suppliers, such as Shenzhen-based  Mindray
Medical International Ltd. (MR) , according to Johnson Sun, a health-
care analyst at Guotai Junan Securities HK Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  “This will mean more intense competition for Mindray in
China especially at the lower-end, primary-care market where
growth potential is strong because of government reforms,” Sun
said in a telephone interview. That part of the market is
attracting interest from foreign companies such as GE and
 Siemens AG (SIE) , he said.  Mindray Medical is China’s biggest seller of medical
devices by sales. Its American depositary receipts fell 0.8
percent to $26.95 at the 4 p.m. close of New York Stock Exchange
composite trading on July 22.  Hiring Plans  The X-ray business, whose financial results aren’t reported
separately by GE, will hire 65 new engineers and support staff
at a new Chengdu facility, the company said in the statement. GE
has hired “a large number” of engineers who are in training,
LeGrand said. GE, based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , also has a
global research center in  Shanghai .  “Over the next five years, China will be GE Healthcare’s
most important growth market,” Rachel Duan, the China unit’s
president and chief executive officer, said in Beijing.  The company wants to keep its leading position in providing
medical devices targeted at higher-end Chinese customers, and
also break into China’s growing market for primary health care,
a key goal of the Chinese government’s health-care reform plans.  To do that, GE Healthcare plans to boost China-based
research, enabling it to introduce at least 20 products for the
local market during the next three years, Duan said. Of those
products, 70 percent will be used in primary care, such as by a
general practitioner or family doctor. The company is targeting
doubling production capacity in China in five years, she said.  About 60,000 people work at GE Healthcare globally,
including 820 in the X-ray business, said Benjamin Fox, a
company spokesman. Of health-care employees, more than 5,000 are
in China, including about 2,000 sales representatives, Duan
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 