-- 
Geithner Pushes Greek Finance Minister on Rescue Plan

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-07-25T21:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/geithner-pushes-greek-finance-minister-on-rescue-implementation.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  emphasized the need for “full implementation” of the
international rescue program for Greece.  “Secretary Geithner welcomed the progress Greece has
already made toward strengthening its public finances and
underscored the need for continued and full implementation of
the program,” said Natalie Wyeth, a Treasury spokeswoman, in a
statement sent by e-mail.  The Treasury released the statement after Geithner met with
Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos at the department
this afternoon.  “They also discussed the agreement reached by European
leaders last week to reinforce the institutions of the euro
area,” the Treasury Department statement said of Geithner and
Venizelos.  European Union leaders on July 21 reached an agreement on a
second rescue package for  Greece  worth 159 billion euros ($229
billion). They also strengthened the region’s bailout mechanism
to offer protection to other euro-region nations in a bid to
stamp out contagion from the debt crisis.  In a separate statement, Venizelos said he had “very
positive” talks with Geithner. The talks were “very specific”
and “very practical,” and the U.S. supports the new program
for Greece, Venizelos said in the e-mailed statement.  The U.S. will express support on a “bilateral level”
through the  International Monetary Fund , Venizelos said.  Venizelos also met with International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  today “to discusss recent
economic developments in Greece and implementation of the
government’s economic program,” the IMF said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  