-- 
Italian, Spanish Bonds Slump Amid Concern EU Plan Lacks Necessary Support

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-07-25T15:54:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/german-government-bonds-advance-after-moody-s-lowers-greek-credit-rating.html
Italian and Spanish securities slid
amid concern measures to support the region’s most indebted
nations may struggle to win support from euro-area members.  German 10-year yields fell the most in almost two weeks.
Slovakia’s SaS party, which the governing coalition needs to
secure a parliamentary majority, today said it opposes the
country’s participation in a permanent euro aid fund, bolstering
a temporary fund and rejects the terms of the Greek rescue
package. German bonds rose for a second day as U.S. lawmakers
reached an impasse over raising the nation’s debt ceiling,
boosting the odds of a default as soon as next week.  The Slovakian opposition “doesn’t read particularly
well,” said  Harvinder Sian , a senior fixed-income strategist at
Edinburgh-based Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Last week’s
European agreement is “a poor plan, and it could blow up at any
point,” he said.  Italy’s 10-year government bond yield surged 26 basis
points to 5.67 percent, as of 4:27 p.m. in London. The spread,
or yield gap over benchmark 10-year German bunds widened to 290
basis points, while two-year yields climbed 37 basis points to
4.02 percent.  The Spanish 10-year yield jumped 26 basis points to 6.02
percent. Ten-year bund yields dropped eight basis points to 2.75
percent. The 3.25 percent security maturing in July 2021 gained
0.67, or 6.7 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,438) face amount, to
104.26.  Greek Plan  Greek two-year government notes snapped three days of gains
after Moody’s Investors Service today downgraded the nation’s
sovereign credit rating three steps, driving the yield 50 basis
points higher to 28.13 percent.  Euro-area leaders last week unveiled 159 billion euros of
new aid for  Greece  as well as new powers for the 440-billion
euro rescue fund. Banks will voluntarily agree to write down the
value of their Greek securities by 21 percent as part of the
bond exchange and debt buyback program, the  Institute of
International Finance  said July 22.  The debt deal “implies that the probability of a
distressed exchange, and hence a default, on Greek  government
bonds  is virtually 100 percent,” Moody’s said in a statement.  “We think EU policymakers have surprised the markets by a
wide range of measures, but many points are still not clear,”
Giuseppe Maraffino, a fixed-income strategist at  Barclays
Capital  in London, wrote in an investor note today. “We would
expect some continued volatility and contagion, but probably
less extreme relative to recent behavior, before more details
about the plan will be clear.”  U.S. Debt Ceiling  The risk of bank writedowns and more contagion from the
debt crisis helped to drag the Stoxx 600 Banks Index down by as
much as 3.2 percent today. Italian and Spanish banks including
Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl, Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and Bankinter
SA lost at least 4 percent.  The failure of U.S. officials to reach an agreement on the
debt ceiling boosted demand for bunds, which traditionally
benefit in times of financial turmoil.  House Speaker  John Boehner  plans to press ahead with a
shorter-term increase of the limit than President  Barack Obama 
has requested, he told lawmakers yesterday, defying a veto
threat and signaling continued stalemate in the  U.S. Congress  as
time runs short for a deal.  Boehner told rank-and-file Republicans that they needed to
pull together to block Obama, who has asked for a $2.4 trillion
borrowing boost in the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling, without any
guarantees of spending cuts, according to a person familiar with
the discussion.  U.S. AAA Rating  The U.S. may lose its AAA rating even if lawmakers reach a
plan to avoid a default, according to Mohamed A. El-Erian, whose
Pacific Investment Management Co. is the world’s largest manager
of bond funds.  “In most likelihood, a last-minute political compromise
will avoid a default but will leave the AAA rating extremely
vulnerable,” El-Erian, the  Newport Beach , California-based
chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer at
Pimco, wrote in an e-mail.  “The dominant factor is what’s going on in the U.S.,”
said  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at Lloyds Bank
Capital Markets. “You could end up with a scenario where they
just kick the can down the road and the ratings agencies
downgrade them. It should help bunds on the spread.”  Belgian bonds pared declines after the nation auctioned
around 2.5 billion euros of debt maturing 2017, 2021 and 2041.
The 10-year yield gained four basis points to 4.30 percent,
after earlier rising to 4.33 percent.  Germany  sold 2.5 billion
euros of 12-month bills today, while  France  plans to auction 8
billion euros worth of 91-, 182-and 336-day bills.  German government bonds handed investors 1.3 percent this
year, compared with 3.5 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have lost 9.4 percent,
while  Portugal ’s have declined 23 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  