-- 
Copper, Oil, Grains Drop as U.S. Debt Talks Falter; Gold Jumps to a Record

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 
2011-07-25T12:39:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/gold-climbs-to-record-as-u-s-debt-talks-stall-copper-oil-corn-decline.html
Copper, oil and corn fell while gold
rose to a record as a lack of progress in raising the U.S. debt
ceiling boosted concern the world’s largest economy may default,
hurting commodities demand and increasing demand for a haven.  Immediate-delivery gold traded at $1,618.25 an ounce by
1:14 p.m. in  London  after reaching $1,624.07. Copper declined as
much as 0.7 percent to $9,608 a metric ton on the London Metal
Exchange. Crude for September delivery fell 0.7 percent to
$99.20 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The U.S. is
the biggest crude-oil consumer and ranks second for copper.  House Speaker  John Boehner  told Republicans there’s no
agreement on a plan for raising the ceiling before a default
threatened for Aug. 2. The impasse has boosted the chance
 Standard & Poor’s  will cut the U.S. credit rating from AAA
within three months to 50 percent, the company said July 21.  “We see classic risk-off mode, and they’ll certainly be
selling commodities, gold the exception,” said Paul Deane, an
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Melbourne.  The collapse July 22 of the quest by President  Barack Obama 
and Boehner for a deal to slice as much as $4 trillion from the
long-term debt through overhauls of entitlement programs and the
 tax code  left all sides staring at a crisis with no clear path
forward and little time to spare.  Investors boosted gold holdings in exchange-traded products
to a record 2,122.6 tons last week as European policy makers met
for the second time in a month in a bid to calm Greece’s
financial distress and inoculate Spain and  Italy  from contagion.  Stocks, Dollar  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities dropped as much as 0.9
percent and the MSCI World Index of equities lost as much as 0.4
percent. The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
dollar’s value, declined as much as 0.3 percent.  A Republican congressional official said Boehner, speaking
by telephone to lawmakers, is reporting that discussions are
continuing on raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. S&P said
in a report that even if Congress raises the limit in time to
avert a default, it might lower the U.S. sovereign credit rating
to AA+ with a negative outlook if a deal isn’t accompanied by a
“credible solution” on the debt burden.  “EU resolve on  Greece  shifts market focus to stalled U.S.
debt-ceiling talks, which  gold prices  are likely to track,”
James Steel, an analyst at HSBC Securities USA Inc., wrote in a
note dated July 22. Still, “a sudden agreement on the debt
ceiling is always possible, and we would expect gold to react
quickly and negatively to any such news,” he wrote.  $2.4 Trillion  Republicans prepared to force action on a shorter-term
extension of the limit than Obama has requested, defying a veto
threat. The president would veto a measure that doesn’t extend
the limit into 2013, White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley said
in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on July 24.  Daley warned that “markets around the world” would react
negatively to a short-term measure offering less than $2.4
trillion in borrowing authority.  Corn for December delivery dropped 1.1 percent to $6.78 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. November-delivery soybeans
declined 0.7 percent to $13.78 a bushel and wheat for September
delivery fell 1.1 percent to $6.8475 a bushel.  “It’s probably going to get solved” in the end, Dominic Schnider, director for wealth management research at UBS AG,
said by phone from  Singapore . Still, people are becoming so
aware of ballooning debt in the developed world there’s a risk
that the U.S. sees a rating downgrade, he said.  Clinton Reassures  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  reassured  China , the top
holder of American Treasuries, that the U.S. will resolve the
debt-ceiling impasse and improve its long-term fiscal outlook.
People’s Bank of China adviser Xia Bin also said he remains
confident an agreement will be reached.  “I am confident that Congress will secure a deal on the
debt ceiling and work with President Obama to take steps to
improve our long-term fiscal outlook,” Clinton said in  Hong
Kong  today.  Silver for immediate delivery climbed 2 percent to $40.8775
an ounce. Platinum for immediate delivery slipped 0.1 percent to
$1,792.50 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in  Melbourne  at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at   gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at   rdobson4@bloomberg.net  