-- 
Greece Rating Cut to Second-Lowest Level by Moody’s on ‘Orderly Default’

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-07-25T10:25:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/greece-rating-cut-to-second-lowest-level-by-moody-s-on-orderly-default-.html
Greece ’s credit rating was cut three
steps by Moody’s Investors Service, which said the European
Union’s rescue for the debt-laden nation will cause substantial
losses for investors and amount to a default.  Greece’s long-term foreign currency debt was downgraded to
Ca, its second-lowest rating, from Caa1, the company said in a
statement in  London  today. Moody’s said it will reassess the
risk profile of any outstanding or new securities issued by
Greece after the debt exchange that’s part of the new rescue
plan has been completed.  “The combination of the announced EU program and the debt
exchange proposals by major financial institutions imply that
private creditors will experience substantial losses on their
holding of Greek government bonds and this is something we need
to reflect in the rating,” Moody’s senior analyst  Sarah Carlson 
said in an interview.  EU leaders on July 21 reached an agreement on a second
rescue package for Greece worth 159 billion euros ($223 billion)
and strengthened the region’s bailout mechanism to offer
protection to other euro-region nations in a bid to stamp out
contagion from the debt crisis. The plan for Greece includes 50
billion euros in contributions from private investors through
bond exchanges and buybacks to cut Europe’s biggest debt, a move
the rating companies said constitutes a technical default.  Bond Writedowns  The extra yield investors demand to hold Greek 10-year debt
instead of German bunds widened 9 basis points to 11.97
percentage points after four days of declines. The yield on the
country’s two-year bond gained 8 basis points to 27.70 percent.  “We do not think Moody’s decision to downgrade Greek
government debt ratings by three notches will affect market
volatility substantially,” Fabio Fois, an economist at  Barclays
Capital  in London, said in a note. “We think markets will
remain focused more on other issues, such as the effective
capability” of the EU’s bailout fund “to limit contagion and
also on long-term sustainability of Greek debt.”  Under the EU’s second rescue program for Greece in 15
months, banks will voluntarily write down the value of their
bonds by 21 percent as part of the exchanges, the Institute of
International Finance, which represents banks and insurers, said
July 22.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,  France ’s
largest banks by market value, are among financial firms
supporting the plan, the IIF said.  Investors to Suffer  The program implies that private investors will suffer in
the debt exchange, “hence a default on Greek  government bonds 
is virtually 100 percent,” Moody’s said.  The Moody’s decision puts its rating closer to that of the
other main credit companies.  Standard & Poor’s  cut Greece to
CCC, currently its lowest rating for any country, on June 13.
 Fitch Ratings  also has Greece at CCC. Fitch on July 22 said it
would lower Greece to restricted default when the debt exchange
goes ahead, before raising the rating back once the swap is
completed and the new bonds issued. Standard & Poor’s has also
indicated it will cut Greece to default once the exchange goes
forward. Moody’s doesn’t have a default rating.  The new support program agreed to by European leaders aims
to stop contagion by helping Greece eventually reduce its debt,
Alastair Wilson, Moody’s managing director for EMEA credit
policy, said in an interview. While the program avoids a
“disorderly default,” it “sets a precedent by requiring
private sector participation,” he added.  Other Ratings  For Ireland and  Portugal , which are already in a support
program under the EU’s rescue fund known as the European
Financial Stability Facility, last week’s package is “broadly
credit neutral” as the agreement to lower  interest rates  on
loans balance the risk of bondholder losses, Wilson said.  For other euro-region countries with large debt burdens,
“the balance is going to be slightly negative, and therefore
that’s something we need to factor in to our rating assessments
in the coming month,” he added. The new rescue package was
passed after investors began shunning Spanish and Italian debt
this month, pushing the yields on their 10-year bond to euro-era
records.  The European Commission forecasts that Greece’s debt will
reach 158 percent of gross domestic product this year without
the exchange. The plan also includes 20 billion euros to
strengthen the country’s banks.  Banks Solid  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the banking
system is “one of the most guaranteed” in  Europe  following the
new bailout agreement. Venizelos is in  Washington  today for
meetings with International Monetary Fund Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde , U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and
 Charles Dallara , managing director of the IIF.  Paying down the debt has been complicated by a three-year
recession deepened by the austerity measures enacted as part of
Greece’s initial 110 billion-euro bailout in May of last year.
Greece’s economy is forecast to shrink 3.8 percent this year
after, after a 4.4 percent contraction in 2010, according to
data released by the European Commission on July 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  