-- 
Growth May Slow in South Korea, Taiwan as Debt Crisis Curbs Asian Exports

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 
2011-07-26T02:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/growth-may-slow-in-south-korea-taiwan-as-debt-crisis-curbs-asian-exports.html
Growth in  South Korea  and Taiwan
likely slowed in the second quarter as the debt crisis in  Europe 
and faltering U.S. growth weighed on  Asia ’s exports.  South Korea’s gross domestic product grew 3.5 percent from
a year earlier, less than the 4.2 percent gain in the previous
quarter, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 11 economists. Taiwan’s growth likely slowed to 4.5
percent from 6.55 percent, a separate survey showed.  The forecast moderations in growth may fail to discourage
policy makers from raising  interest rates  during the second half
to restrain price gains.  Bank of Korea  Deputy Governor Kim Jae Chun said yesterday that the central bank’s biggest concern is
that inflation will become a “chronic problem.”  “Even though growth is slowing a little, inflation shows
no sign of cooling both in Korea and  Taiwan ,” said Wai Ho Leong,
a senior regional economist at  Barclays Capital  in Singapore.
“The policy trade-off is getting more challenging and they are
facing some risks due to the U.S. and Europe.”  South Korea will release its preliminary GDP data at 8 a.m.
Seoul time on July 27 while Taiwan’s report will come out at 4
p.m. local time on July 29.  Disruptions from  Japan ’s earthquake in March have also
trimmed Asia’s exports. Shipments from South Korea expanded 14
percent in June, the smallest gain since October 2009. Taiwan’s
export orders, an indication of shipments in the next one to
three months, gained the least in four months in June.  ‘Pretty Strong’  The Bank of Korea’s Kim indicated that he was not concerned
about the outlook, describing exports as still “pretty strong”
and adding that the nation’s economic growth would accelerate on
a year-on-year basis in the second half.  “A possible economic slowdown is not in our list of policy
concerns,” Kim, 57, said in an interview in Seoul.  Second-quarter profit at Samsung Electronics Co., the
world’s largest maker of televisions, dropped 26 percent on a
slump in flat screen sales.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the
number-two maker of computer-memory chips, reported a 34 percent
profit declined on falling chip prices.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest
maker of chips designed by other companies, reported slower
quarterly profit growth for the January-March period.  Stronger Currencies  A strengthening in the two economies’ currencies may also
crimp trade gains. South Korea’s won has risen about 6 percent
against the dollar this year, with the  Taiwan dollar  climbing 5
percent.  “We think the central banks in Asia are still under
pressure to raise interest rates, barring any unforeseen shocks
in the global economy and global financial markets,” said Ma Tieying, an economist with DBS Bank Ltd. in  Singapore . “The
current rate level in the majority of economies in the region
remains significantly below neutral.”  Ma predicts both South Korea and Taiwan will raise interest
rates by half a percentage point more this year.  The Bank of Korea increased its benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate to 3.25 percent from 3 percent in June. Taiwan’s
monetary authority, which sets rates once every three months,
raised borrowing costs by 0.125 percentage point for the fifth
straight quarter on June 30, to 1.875 percent.  “The central banks will keep raising interest rates, for
inflation in Korea and for financial stability in Taiwan,” said
Erik Lueth, a Hong Kong-based economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “Both  Korea  and Taiwan will grow faster for
the rest of this year after some slowdown in the second
quarter.”  Pork Prices  South Korea’s inflation has exceeded the central bank’s
target limit of 4 percent every month this year. Pork prices
surged 46 percent in June from a year earlier, prompting school
cafeterias to serve beef or chicken instead.  President  Lee Myung Bak  held an emergency cabinet meeting
on July 20 to discuss ways to contain inflation. South Koreans’
unhappiness about climbing costs has spurred a drop in his
approval rating to 32.8 percent this month compared with 76
percent when he came to power in February 2008, according to a
poll by Seoul-based Realmeter.  If the government fails to meet its 4 percent inflation
target this year, that “would be highly burdensome politically
given the political backdrop ahead of parliamentary elections in
April 2012 and the adverse impact of inflation on the living
standards of the middle class,” said Kwon Goohoon, an economist
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  Seoul .  In Taiwan, inflation quickened to a 16-month high of 1.93
percent last month and  home prices  rebounded to a record in May.  Taiwan’s labor council said last week it plans to increase
its minimum wage for the second straight year in January as
accelerating inflation and record home prices threaten to widen
the  income gap .  President Ma Ying-Jeou, striving for re-election in January,
is running neck-and-neck with opposition leader Tsai Ing-wen. Ma
would get 37.3 percent of votes to Tsai’s 37.2 percent,
according to a poll by the Taipei-based Global Views Survey
Research Center published July 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net 
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  