-- 
IMF Cites ‘Urgency’ in Raising $14.3 Trillion U.S. Debt Limit

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-07-25T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/imf-cites-urgency-in-raising-14-3-trillion-u-s-debt-limit.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
today it is urgent for the  U.S. Congress  to approve an increase
in the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.  Republicans and Democrats are preparing rival debt-ceiling
plans after they were unable to break a partisan stalemate over
the weekend. The Treasury Department says U.S. borrowing
authority will end on Aug. 2 unless Congress acts.  The 24-member IMF board “highlighted the urgency of
raising the federal debt ceiling and agreeing on the specifics
of a comprehensive medium-term consolidation plan,” according
to an IMF statement on the U.S. economy. “With a well-defined,
credible multiyear framework in place, the pace of deficit
reduction in the short run could be more attuned to cyclical
conditions.”  “The deficit reduction plan will need to include both
changes to entitlement programs and revenue-enhancing
measures,” the staff of the Washington-based lender said in a
separate report on the U.S. The staff also said a fiscal
strategy can include savings in health care and “reducing tax
expenditures.”  Unfavorable fiscal outcomes “could take the form of a
sudden increase in  interest rates  and-or a sovereign downgrade
if an agreement on medium-term consolidation does not
materialize or the debt ceiling is not raised soon enough,” the
IMF staff said. “These risks would also have significant global
repercussions, given the central role of U.S. Treasury bonds in
world financial markets.”  ‘Sluggish’ U.S. Demand  Overall, the lender said the U.S. outlook is for “sluggish
private domestic demand” while the  unemployment rate  “has
declined only modestly from its recent peak.” The jobless rate
was 9.2 percent in June, down from 10.1 percent in October 2009.  The IMF staff said it is projecting U.S. growth of between
2.75 percent and 3 percent “from 2012 onwards.” The IMF, in an
update to its World Economic Outlook released in June, said it
expected the  U.S. economy  to grow 2.7 percent next year.  “A number of directors cautioned that the extraordinarily
low level of interest rates in the  United States  may have
encouraged excessive risk-taking, affected cross-border capital
flows, and added to global inflationary pressures,” the IMF
said in today’s statement, which accompanies the lender’s annual
review of the U.S. economy.  The IMF said “U.S. spillovers on growth abroad are
uniquely large, mainly reflecting the pivotal role of U.S.
markets in global asset price discovery.”  “Spillovers from credible and gradual fiscal consolidation
are limited and ambiguously signed, while those from the tail
risk of a potential loss of confidence in U.S. debt
sustainability are universally large and negative,” the IMF
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  