-- 
India Central Bank Says Taming Inflation Rate ’Unfinished Task’ for Policy

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-07-25T11:28:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/india-central-bank-says-taming-inflation-rate-unfinished-task-for-policy.html
India 's central bank said that while
it will take account of emerging signs of a slowdown in growth in
setting  interest rates , taming inflation remains an "unfinished
task" as price pressures persist.  "Policy will have to preserve the broad thrust on tight
monetary stance until there is credible evidence of inflation
trending close to a level within" officials' comfort zone, the
 Reserve Bank of India   said  in a report before its rate-setting
meeting tomorrow in Mumbai. The RBI cited a high share of
production capacity in use, risk of a "wage-price spiral" and
"stickiness" in food prices contributing to inflation pressures.  Price gains in India are the highest among the BRICS nations
that include Brazil,  Russia ,  China  and  South Africa . Governor
 Duvvuri Subbarao , who raised borrowing costs 10 times since mid-
March 2010, may boost the repurchase rate to 7.75 percent from
7.5 percent, according to 20 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg
survey, with the remaining two predicting no change.  ``Inflation pressures are still rising,''  Abheek Barua , New
Delhi-based chief economist at HDFC Bank Ltd., said before the
report. ``A rate hike is almost certain.''  The RBI is scheduled to release its monetary-policy
announcement at 11 a.m. in Mumbai tomorrow.  Barua expects inflation to be in ``double digits for a few
months'' after Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's government
increased diesel and cooking gas costs in June for the first time
in a year to cut subsidies and narrow losses at state-run
refiners such as Indian Oil Corp.  BRICS Comparison  India's benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
9.44 percent in June. By comparison, consumer prices rose 6.7
percent in  Brazil , 9.4 percent in Russia, 6.4 percent in China
and 5 percent in South Africa.  India will take several months to reduce inflation to ``an
acceptable level'' of 5 percent to 6 percent and the rate
increases haven't hurt the economy,  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , the
deputy chairman of India's planning commission, said in a July 19
interview in  New Delhi . The RBI didn't specify its "comfort
level" in the report.  "It is important to break" the dynamics sustaining inflation
pressures, the central bank said today. Higher rural wages have
both increased the input cost of agricultural goods and boosted
demand for them, keeping food inflation elevated even as it has
slowed, according to the RBI. A "near normal monsoon" may not
ease food inflation, it said.  Economists' Outlook  Inflation may average 8.6 percent in the fiscal year through
March 31, according to a survey compiled by the central bank of
forecasts from agencies including the  International Monetary Fund 
and the Asian Development Bank, the report showed. The survey in
May projected inflation of 7.5 percent.  India's economy may expand 7.9 percent in the current
financial year, the survey said, compared with its previous
estimate of 8.2 percent.  Signs of waning consumer demand prompted economists at
Barclays Plc and ICICI Securities Primary Dealership to say the
central bank will refrain from raising borrowing costs in the
remainder of the year after tomorrow's move.  ``The RBI is reaching a level where they can afford to wait
and watch to see how the previous rate tightening transmits
through the economy and also take stock of the increased global
uncertainties,'' Prasanna Ananthasubramaniam, Mumbai-based chief
economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership, said before the
report.  Prasanna expects the  Reserve Bank  to increase the repurchase
rate by a quarter of a percentage point tomorrow and pause after
that.  Industrial production in India grew 5.6 percent in May, the
weakest pace in nine months. Gross domestic product in the South
Asian nation will expand 8.2 percent this year and 7.8 percent in
2012 compared with more than 9 percent each year in China,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  