-- 
Inflation Bond Gauges at 2011 Low as Economy May Falter: Australia Credit

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-07-25T02:04:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/inflation-bond-gauges-at-2011-low-as-economy-may-falter-australia-credit.html
Investor expectations of Australian
inflation dropped to the least this year on prospects faltering
growth will cool consumer-price gains, giving the central bank
scope to extend its longest interest-rate pause since 2007.  The so-called breakeven rate on 10-year inflation-linked
notes fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, this
month and touched 274 basis points, the least since November.
The rate reached a four-year high at 306 on May 11. The one-year
inflation swap rate touched 2.67 percent on July 20, the lowest
in almost 15 months, and slid 61 basis points in the three
months to June 30, the biggest quarterly drop since 2008.  The  bond market  contrasts with economists forecasting a
July 27 report will show annual consumer price gains quickened
to 3.4 percent last quarter, the most since 2008.  Reserve Bank 
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  has said the data will be
crucial for policy after he kept the developed world’s highest
interest rates unchanged this month as  Europe ’s debt crisis and
a weak domestic recovery eased inflation concerns.  “Investors are feeling downward pressure on the economy,”
said Sungjin Park, who heads the $58.8 billion fixed-income
division at Samsung Asset Management Co. in  Seoul , and
recommends buying Australian long-term bonds on expectations of
slower inflation. The central bank “doesn’t have to be
aggressive in hiking rates,” he said.  Interbank cash rate futures show a 94 percent chance the
RBA will lower the benchmark rate to 4.5 percent from 4.75
percent by December.  CPI Forecasts  Consumer prices rose 0.7 percent in the second quarter,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
23 economists. The RBA’s  core inflation  measures, known as the
trimmed mean and weighted averaged gauges, probably quickened to
an annual 2.5 percent, the survey shows. Second-quarter producer
prices rose 3.4 percent from a year earlier, after rising 2.9
percent the previous period, the statistics bureau said today.  “Breakevens are below the current CPI, which suggests the
market is pricing in an expectation the RBA will get inflation
under control,” said Mat McCrum, the investment director at
Melbourne-based Omega Global Investors Pty, which manages A$1
billion. “The risk is clearly that inflation surprises on the
upside.”  Stevens kept the benchmark rate unchanged July 5,
prolonging a pause that began in December. Since the RBA’s last
meeting, private reports have shown weaker business and  consumer
confidence . Economists are forecasting the RBA will hold rates
on Aug. 2 before raising them by year-end.  Time to Wait  “There’s a sense the global economy has slowed fairly
meaningfully and also all the household-related data suggest to
the RBA that they have a little bit more time on their hands,”
said Ben Jarman, an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney.
“November is an appropriate amount of time to gather enough
evidence for a rate hike.”  Australia’s A$14 billion ($15 billion) of inflation-linked
debt fell last month for the first time this year, snapping its
longest rally since 2006. It advanced 2 percent since June 30,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show, on concerns European
and U.S. debt crises will roil global financial markets. U.S.
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities advanced 2 percent this
month, extending June’s 0.7 percent increase.  Inflation Pressures  Core inflation may accelerate in coming quarters as
unemployment falls, wage costs rise and stronger commodity
prices buoy incomes, said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities in Singapore.  “Inflation is being pushed higher from all sides, with the
labor market pushing up unit labor costs and commodity prices
pushing up tradable inflation” while the Australian dollar’s 21
percent advance over the past year, curbing the price of
imported goods, is starting to “cool,” she said.  Eighteen of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
including Beacher, forecast Stevens will raise the benchmark
rate at least once this year. Two see no change and Westpac
Banking Corp. predicts a quarter-point cut in December.  The RBA raised benchmark rates seven times since October
2009, and in May forecast price gains at the top of its 2
percent to 3 percent target as the nation’s expansion quickens
amid a record mining-investment boom.  The increases in borrowing costs helped spur the Australian
dollar over the past year to $1.1012 on May 2, the strongest
level since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983. The
currency fetched $1.0832 as of 11:45 a.m. in Sydney, paring last
week’s 1.9 percent climb to $1.0851.  Inflation Swaps  Five-year inflation swaps show traders lowered estimates
for inflation over the past three months in six of nine
developed markets tracked by Bloomberg. Contracts fell 20.5
basis points for the U.S., 15 for the euro-zone and 24 for
 Australia . The swaps allow investors to exchange fixed interest
rates for returns equivalent to a nation’s consumer price index.  The yield on the Australian index-linked note maturing in
August 2020 was 2.12 percent today, after touching a two-year
low of 2.08 percent on July 15. The yield on the U.S. security
due July 2021 was 0.60 percent.  Australian 10-year notes that don’t adjust for inflation
yielded 4.95 percent, delivering a so-called real yield of 1.65
percent after deducting the 3.3 percent annual inflation rate
reported by the government for the first quarter. The inflation-
adjusted yield on 10-year Treasuries would be negative 0.60
percent, based on the consumer price index report for June.  The Australian 10-year rate is likely to decline to 4.5
percent by the end of September, according to Park at Samsung
Asset Management,  South Korea ’s largest private bond investor.
An investor who bought the debt now would make a 4.1 percent
profit should his forecast prove correct, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  Debt Sales  Australia, which resumed sales of inflation-indexed debt in
2009, plans to increase the share of such notes to 10 percent to
15 percent of its debt, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in the federal
budget in May. Outstanding issuance will increase to A$15.9
billion by June 30, 2011, from about A$14.1 billion last week,
according to the Australian Office of Financial Management’s
website.  Auctions  on July 19 for federal government inflation-
indexed debt drew bids worth 2.35 times the amount sold, the
lowest so-called bid-to-cover ratio since sales resumed in 2009,
AOFM data show.  Inflation expectations have declined to levels that may
represent a buying opportunity, said Stuart Dear, a Sydney-based
portfolio manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees about A$15 billion of fixed-income assets in Australia.  “Breakeven inflation levels, after the recent fall, look
reasonably attractive, though real yields are quite low so will
no doubt discourage some investors on a real yield basis,” Dear
said. “We continue to argue the rationale for building up
strategic inflation protection at sensible prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  