-- 
ING Sells Latin America Insurance Units for $3.9 Billion

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-07-25T14:55:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/ing-to-sell-latin-american-insurance-unit-to-gruposura-for-3-85-billion.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  agreed to sell most of
its Latin American insurance operations to Grupo de Inversiones
Suramericana, the parent company of  Colombia ’s largest bank, for
about 2.7 billion euros ($3.9 billion).  The sale, which includes ING’s pensions, life insurance and
investment management operations in  Chile , Colombia,  Mexico ,
Uruguay and  Peru , will result in a gain of about 1 billion
euros, Amsterdam-based ING said in a statement today. The
proceeds will be used to reduce leverage, or the amount of debt
used to finance assets, in its insurance unit.  ING is under European Union orders to sell its entire
insurance and investment management businesses before the end of
2013 as a condition for approval of state aid received amid the
financial crisis. The firm, the Netherlands’ biggest financial-
services company, aims to divest the remaining parts of the unit
in two initial public offerings, it repeated today.  “This is a very good price, at the top end of market
expectations,” said Thomas Nagtegaal, an Amsterdam-based
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc who recommends
buying the shares. “ING is making rapid progress with its
divestments, which is positive.”  The transaction values the ING operations at 16 times
estimated 2011 earnings and 1.8 times book value, based on
International Financial Reporting Standards, ING said in the
statement.  Grupo Sura Expansion  ING fell 18 cents, or 2.2 percent, to 7.91 euros by 4:35
p.m. in Amsterdam trading as banking and insurance shares
tumbled across  Europe . Grupo de Inversiones Suramericana, known
as Grupo Sura, rose 1.5 percent to 35,960 pesos in Bogota. The
country’s IGBC index rose 0.8 percent.  Grupo Sura will pay ING about 2.62 billion euros in cash
and assume 65 million euros in debt, according to the statement.
The firm will gain more than 10 million customers and 49 billion
euros of assets under management from the transaction, which is
expected to close at the end of this year.  Shareholders of Grupo Sura, the parent company of
 Bancolombia SA (BCOLO) , approved plans last month to offer as many as
131 million preferred shares in Bogota and allow for the
conversion of as much as 10 percent of existing common shares
into preferred shares.  The Medellin-based company seeks acquisitions in Central or
 South America , Chief Executive Officer David Bojanini said on
June 20. Central America “is an interesting market for us to
take leadership positions,” as the region has a population and
economic output similar to Colombia’s, he said.  ‘First Major Step’  Grupo Sura beat out rival bids, including those from a
group led by Chilean entrepreneur Alvaro Saieh and from  MetLife
Inc. (MET) , said people with knowledge of the talks who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the discussions were private.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising ING on the Latin
American transaction, and UBS AG is advising Grupo Sura.  ING received 10 billion euros of state aid in 2008 and
transferred the risk on 21.6 billion euros of U.S. mortgage
assets to the Dutch government in 2009. The company has repaid 7
billion euros and plans to repay the rest by May. Last month,
the firm agreed to sell its U.S. online bank to  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  for $9 billion to fulfill another EU
requirement.  Today’s sale “is the first major step in the divestment of
ING’s insurance and investment management activities,” the
company said. “We continue to prepare our remaining insurance
and investment management businesses for our base case of two
IPOs -- one for the U.S. businesses and one for the European and
Asian businesses -- so that we will be ready to proceed when
markets are favorable,” Chief Executive Officer Jan Hommen
said.  The deal announced today excludes ING’s 36 percent stake in
Brazilian insurance firm  Sul America SA (SULA3) , which it seeks to sell
separately. ING spokeswoman Carolien van der Giessen declined to
comment further on that process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  