-- 
Invensys Gains on Report Company Considering Pension Plan Deal

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-07-25T09:33:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/invensys-gains-on-report-company-considering-pension-plan-deal.html
Invensys Plc (ISYS) , the British maker of
railway software and washing-machine controls, climbed the most
in almost one month in London trading after the Times reported
the company may pay 500 million pounds ($814 million) to divest
pension plans.  Invensys rose as much as 9.3 pence, 3 percent, to 312
pence, the steepest gain since June 29. The stock traded at
309.7 pence as of 10:11 a.m., giving Invensys a value of 2.5
million pounds. Pension Corp., Lucida Plc and Rothesay Life are
seeking a partial buyout of the 4.2 billion-pound pension
portfolio and Invensys’ board will meet this week to discuss the
proposal, according to the newspaper.  “If the 500 million pounds is in respect of a deal to
remove all of the U.K. scheme’s gross liabilities from the
balance sheet, then this news would represent an incremental
positive,” said Jonathan Mounsey, an analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas with a ‘neutral’ rating on the stock.  A buy-out of Invensys’ U.K. pension fund could prompt asset
sales and takeover approaches, analysts said.  Siemens AG (SIE)  is
flush with cash and both  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  and Schneider Electric SA have
made acquisitions to boost their offering of software to run
industrial machinery and factories.  Buying out the pension plan might cost between 400 million
pounds and 1 billion pounds, analysts including Alex Toms at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch wrote in a note in June.  Invensys has a three-pronged focus on factory automation
gear, software for railways and controls for machinery. It was
formed through a purchase of BTR Plc by Siebe Plc in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  