-- 
Lira Options Show Worst Emerging Currency Approaching Record Low on Trade

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k ,   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-07-26T07:58:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/lira-options-show-worst-emerging-currency-approaching-record-low-on-trade.html
The strategists who predicted this
month’s tumble in the lira say more declines are likely as
 Turkey ’s failure to cut its record current-account deficit
erodes investor confidence.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Societe Generale SA
say the lira may drop as much as 4.8 percent to 1.80 per dollar,
extending a 5.3 percent retreat in July, the biggest worldwide.
Traders are paying the most in a year to protect against lira
depreciation in the options market, with contracts suggesting a
69 percent chance that the currency will weaken to 1.80 by the
end of 2012, from 1.7139 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The lira hit an all-time low of 1.8243 in March 2009.  Turkey’s central bank kept benchmark borrowing costs at a
record low for a sixth straight month on July 21, counting on a
weaker lira to narrow the current-account gap by boosting
exports and making imports more expensive. The strategy has
proven unsuccessful as the 12-month deficit widened to $68.2
billion in May. The lira’s slide may fuel inflation in  Europe ’s
fastest-growing economy and drive away the investors Turkey
relies on for funding, according to Tim Ash, a London-based
emerging market strategist at RBS.  “Turkey needs to get its act together because there is the
potential of having a proper explosion there,” Plamen Monovski,
the London-based chief investment officer of Renaissance Asset
Managers, which oversees about $2.2 billion, said in an
interview. “The central bank has enough resources to contain a
currency crisis, but it’s completely unclear why we need to be
going through all these motions.”  Most Bearish  RBS, SocGen and Citigroup Inc. were the most bearish lira
forecasters among 21 banks surveyed by Bloomberg in June,
predicting a decline this quarter even as the average forecast
was for a gain to 1.56 versus per dollar.  Luis Costa , an
emerging-market strategist at Citigroup in London, wrote in an
e-mailed note today that he still recommends “short” lira
positions, or bets that the currency will decline.  The lira may weaken to 1.75 per dollar in the next three
months, before appreciating to 1.55 over 12 months, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. wrote in a research report yesterday.  Today’s Retreat  The lira slipped 1 percent yesterday, paring an early drop
of as much as 2.2 percent after the central bank said it ended
daily dollar purchases. It costs 330 basis points, or 3.3
percentage points, more for one-month option contracts granting
the right to sell the lira than to buy the currency, compared
with 230 at the start of the month, according to so-called risk-
reversal rates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Turkish currency weakened 0.1 percent against the
dollar at 8:30 a.m. in  London , the most among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The lira fell 1 percent versus
the euro.  “It does not seem that the market is going to stabilize at
this level,”  Benoit Anne , head of global emerging markets
strategy at SocGen in London, said in an e-mail. “Market
participants still don’t want to go long.”  Yields on Turkey’s benchmark bonds rose 20 basis points to
8.88 percent yesterday, according to an index compiled by RBS.
The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  of shares rallied 2.1 percent,
snapping a seven-day retreat that had sent it to a four-month
low.  Funding Gap  About 40 percent of Turkey’s $37.2 billion current-account
deficit in the first five months of the year was funded by
portfolio investment, according to central bank data.  “Turkey needs capital inflows to finance its huge current
account deficit,”  Murat Toprak , a currency strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in London, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “A wide lira depreciation may deteriorate confidence
and impact capital inflows.”  The lira rebounded from its lows yesterday after the
central bank said it ended daily purchases of $30 million.
Turkey has about $93 billion of foreign-exchange reserves, the
world’s 20th-largest holdings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Central bank policy makers will probably use more
“hawkish” public comments to stem the lira’s slide and may
raise interest rates in October, according to Thu Lan Nguyen, a
currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  Fastest Growth  Turkey’s economy, home to about 79 million people, expanded
at an 11 percent pace in the first quarter, faster than any
other member of the Group of 20 nations. Inflation fell to a
6.24 percent annual rate in June, lower than the 7 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg news survey of economists.  The lira’s retreat “does look a bit overdone,” Nguyen
said in e-mailed comments. She expects the Turkish currency to
strengthen to 1.61 per dollar by the end of September.  Recent statements from central bank policy makers signal
they will tolerate further weakness in the lira, according to
RBS’s Ash.  Turkey can have “a more comfortable free-floating
currency” because consumers and businesses don’t have large
foreign-currency positions, the central bank’s Basci said in a
speech in the southwestern city of Denizli on July 22. Nations
with free-floating currencies are able to control  interest rates 
more effectively, he said.  Basci’s comment “suggests almost a green light for further
lira weakness,” Ash said in an e-mailed note.  Erdogan Pressure  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s government
may be exerting pressure on the central bank to keep interest
rates low, according to Nomura Holdings and UBS AG.  “There is a sense that there is some pressure on the bank
to refrain from rate hikes as far as possible,”  Manik Narain ,
an emerging-market strategist at UBS in London, said in a phone
interview.  Erdogan told an Islamic businessmen’s association on May 3
that he wants to make interest rates “virtually zero” after
subtracting the inflation rate. Trade Minister Zafer Caglayan
said this month that the current account gap doesn’t pose a
threat, according to a report on Bloomberg Haberturk television.  “Erdogan’s comments on real interest rates weren’t timely
from a central bank independence perspective,” said Olgay
Buyukkayali, a strategist at Nomura in London. Policy makers
should raise rates because the current-account deficit is
growing to “unmanageable” levels, he said.  Fitch Ratings  said on July 21 that an upgrade of Turkey’s
credit rating is “uncertain” and the results of the central
bank’s policies are “mixed at best.” A central bank official
reached by telephone yesterday who asked not to be named
declined to comment.  “The biggest risk is that inadequate policy action now
might require a bigger policy response later on, increasing the
risk of a sharp slowdown in economic activity,” said Berna Bayazitoglu, an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in London.
“The sell-off might continue until we see a policy response
from the central bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 