-- 
Allied Irish Weighs Mortgage Forgiveness in Europe’s Worst Housing Market

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-07-25T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/ireland-weighs-debt-forgiveness-in-europe-s-worst-housing-market.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the nation’s
biggest mortgage lender, may use money from its taxpayer bailout
to rescue homeowners unable to pay their mortgages, opening the
door to debt forgiveness in  Europe ’s worst real-estate market.  Irish  home prices  have fallen by 40 percent from their peak
in 2007, according to figures from the country’s statistics
office. More than one in 10 home loans are in arrears or have
been restructured, typically by shifting borrowers to paying
interest only on loans for a period, central bank data show.  “People who are unemployed can’t pay back their debts and
that puts them into arrears and potentially default,” said
Conall Mac Coille, an economist at Dublin-based securities firm
Davy. “In  Las Vegas , you can just throw the keys back in the
door and you’re done, whereas here you go bankrupt.”  Allied Irish said yesterday it’s exploring all options on
mortgage debt, and told analysts yesterday it is in “active”
talks with the country’s central bank on industry-wide plans.
The government will this week pump a further 14.8 billion euros
($21 billion) into the Dublin-based lender, part of its third
bailout, taking the total injected to about 20 billion euros.  “We would be using the capital that has been provided by
the government in this process,” Chairman David Hodgkinson told
reporters in Dublin yesterday. “Clearly, it needs to be an
industry-wide, government-supported approach.”  Bank of Ireland Plc, the country’s largest lender, said
yesterday “any agreed forbearance solution depends on the
individual circumstances of the customer and what is in their
best interests.”  Arrears  Allied Irish  has 26.8 billion euros in Irish home loans.
The numbers of loans more than 90 days in arrears rose to 7.8
percent at end of June from 4.8 percent at the end of September.  Ireland’s economy has shrunk about 15 percent while the
 unemployment rate  has tripled to 14 percent since 2007, when a
decade-long real estate bubble collapsed. Allied Irish
executives told reporters yesterday they expect  house prices  to
drop by 55 percent from the 2007 peak. About 11 percent of
Allied Irish domestic  mortgage loans  are in arrears, with buy-
to-let mortgages faring worst.  “There are some people who will not be able to repay --
cannot repay -- the full amount of debt they owe,” Hodgkinson
said. “I’d prefer to call it debt restructuring. Forgiveness
implies a degree of moral hazard. I think it’s important we
don’t get into that space.”  Bailout  Ireland sought an international bailout last year after the
costs of meeting a pledge to back all lenders liabilities
overwhelmed the government. In all, Ireland has injected or
pledged about 64 billion euros to shore up the financial system.  The state already controls Anglo Irish Bank Corp., Irish
Nationwide Building Society and EBS Ltd., with Irish Life &
Permanent Plc also close to falling under the state’s aegis. The
government will control 99 percent of Allied Irish following
this week’s cash infusion.  The extra capital gives banks the “scope” to restructure
loans, Matthew Elderfield, the country’s financial regulator,
said in a speech yesterday.  “There are a couple of caveats,” he said in a speech in
Donegal, northwest Ireland. “At some point, when banking
conditions have settled down sufficiently, the taxpayer will
wish to recover some of that capital. Also, any approach to
restructuring needs to take account of the risk that it creates
incentives for borrowers to cease meeting their obligations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  