-- 
IRS Removes Two-Year Limit for Filing Innocent Spouse Claims

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-07-25T21:44:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/irs-removes-two-year-limit-for-filing-innocent-spouse-claims.html
Spouses of accused tax cheats will
get more time to file claims seeking to limit their liability
under rules announced by the  Internal Revenue Service .  The agency said today it is eliminating a two-year limit
that has drawn criticism from members of Congress and taxpayer
advocates.  “It opens up relief for a whole universe of people who
weren’t eligible for relief in the past,” IRS Commissioner
Douglas Shulman said in an interview. “We need to do the right
thing with these taxpayers.”  The old rules, adopted in 2002, required such claims to be
filed within two years after the first attempt to collect. The
agency gets about 50,000 innocent-spouse requests a year, and
about 2,000 of those are rejected automatically because of the
two-year rule.  When spouses are accused of cheating on taxes, their
partners who sign joint returns share the responsibility to pay
taxes and penalties to the government. The innocent-spouse rules
allow partners to apply to avoid their share of those
liabilities. The agency considers the applicants’ financial
situation, possible domestic violence history and knowledge of
their spouse’s tax and financial matters.  Effective Immediately  The new rule, effective immediately, applies to certain
cases pending before the IRS or in court. Some taxpayers who
were denied past requests for relief solely because of the two-
year limitation for filing claims will also be able to get the
IRS to reconsider their cases.  Certain taxpayers, including some who have already divorced
or separated, still face the two-year limit to apply, according
to the IRS.  In practice, the two-year rule available for the broadest
form of innocent spouse relief didn’t work because the taxpayers
often were unaware that the IRS had started the collection
process, National Taxpayer Advocate Nina Olson said in a
statement. The advocate is an ombudsman at the IRS to assist
taxpayers.  “This is a welcome occasion where everyone has emerged a
winner,” she said.  Members of Congress also have been urging the IRS to
reconsider the two-year rule. In an  April 18 letter  to Shulman,
Representatives Jim McDermott and Pete Stark, both senior
members of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, wrote
that Congress specifically didn’t include a statute of
limitations in that portion of the  tax code . Senators, including
Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, also
called for the change.  ‘Flexible and Compassionate’  Shulman had responded to the members’ letter in April by
saying he was seeking a review of the rules. He said in the
interview today that upon examination, the rule was too
restrictive and didn’t fit the agency’s goal of being “flexible
and compassionate” with taxpayers in difficult situations.  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , a Republican
presidential candidate and former IRS attorney, introduced a
bill in April that would prevent the IRS from imposing a time
limit.  McDermott, a Democrat from Washington state, said in a
statement today that the change makes the IRS rules consistent
with congressional intent.  “Today’s decision is a victory for fairness and will
provide innocent taxpayers with enough time to seek the relief
that they deserve,” he said.  Regular Time Limits  The removal of the two-year rule means that the regular
time limits for responding to collection actions will apply in
the affected innocent spouse cases. That period can stretch back
as far as 10 years, depending on the taxpayer’s circumstances.  The U.S. agency has been defending the validity of the two-
year rule in court. Shulman said the announcement doesn’t change
the agency’s position about the validity of the regulation.  “It was well within our authority to have the two-year
rule,” he said. “This is just something that we believe was
the wrong policy call.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  