-- 
IRS Was Lax in Controlling Homebuyer Tax Credits, Treasury Audit Shows

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-07-25T15:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/irs-was-lax-in-controlling-homebuyer-tax-credits-treasury-audit-shows.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  issued
millions of dollars in questionable refunds under a tax credit
program for first-time homebuyers, a federal audit found.  The  report released today  in Washington by the Treasury
Inspector General for Tax Administration found that some
taxpayers received multiple refunds for the credit. Others used
amended tax returns to change the date they reported buying a
home from 2008 to a later year so they could receive a version
of the credit that didn’t require repayment to the government.  “While in response to our previous recommendations the IRS
took a number of positive steps to process homebuyer credits
claimed on amended returns, this report found additional issues
related to the credit,” J. Russell George, Treasury inspector
general for tax administration, said in a statement.  As the housing market struggled in 2008 and 2009, Congress
passed homebuyer tax credits designed to spur purchases. The
program, which expired last year, gave homebuyers up to $8,000
in refundable tax credits. Taxpayers have claimed more than $30
billion under the program, the IRS said in a statement today.  The audit noted another problem with amended returns.
Congress allowed taxpayers who purchased homes in 2009 or 2010
to amend their tax returns for the prior year and receive
immediate refunds for the $8,000 credit. The IRS, following the
law, paid taxpayers interest on overpayments, meaning that some
earned interest on credits for the period between April 15 and
the dates they bought their homes.  ‘Significant Challenges’  The IRS paid taxpayers about $37 million in interest on
credits before they had purchased their homes, according to the
audit. The agency officials should have asked Congress to
clarify its intent about interest payments, it said.  In the IRS response to the report, Richard Byrd, who heads
the wage and investment division, said the agency has had
“significant challenges” in dealing with the homebuyer credit
and with amended returns.  The IRS agrees with the audit’s recommendations, it said in
a statement released today.  “Where there have been questionable claims, the IRS has
moved aggressively, closing almost 450,000 examinations and
saving taxpayers more than $1.4 billion,” the statement said.
“This includes examination of more than 225,000 amended returns
where over $820 million was protected. The IRS continues to
audit claims, including amended claims, as warranted and
recapture credits that were improperly paid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  