-- 
Japan to Buy Australian Beef on Nuclear Radiation Concern, AACo Says

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-07-25T04:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/japan-to-buy-australian-beef-on-radiation-concern-aaco-says-1-.html
Japanese demand for Australian beef
may increase after radiation was found in domestic meat and amid
concern that cesium leaks from the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear power plant may spread further, according to Australian
Agricultural Co. Ltd.  “We’re expecting to see better demand out of  Japan  as they
move away from their own herds,” chief executive officer David Farley said on a conference call today. That follows a boost in
demand for beef after radiation was detected in Japan’s seafood
in March, he said.  Cattle with unsafe levels of cesium were detected in four
prefectures, the Japanese health ministry said July 23. The
animals were fed tainted straw during a feed-supply shortage
after the March earthquake and tsunami caused the reactor
meltdowns at the Fukushima plant north of  Tokyo . Supermarkets
including Japan’s biggest, Aeon Co., said the beef was sold in
Tokyo and other cities.  As radiation is found in domestic beef, we see rising
demand for clean, quality meat, Farley said. “ Australia  itself
should be well-positioned to meet their extra demand.”  More than 2,600 cattle have been contaminated,  Kyodo News 
reported July 23, after the Miyagi prefectural government said
1,183 cattle at 58 farms were fed the tainted hay before being
shipped to meat markets. Some of the hay was found to contain as
much as 690,000 becquerels a kilogram, compared with an official
safety standard of 300 becquerels. The government banned cattle
shipments from Fukushima on July 19.  Strong Aussie  Still, a strengthening Australian dollar may limit any
boost to sales as imports from other countries including the
U.S. appear cheaper, Farley said.  “It’s interfering with our ability to compete for the
demand,” he said. “The U.S. has increased exports to Japan 53
percent just this year, based off dollar value only.”  The Australian currency has climbed 6.8 percent against the
dollar since March 1, according to Bloomberg data.  In the four weeks ended July 14, export sales of beef rose
51 percent from a year earlier with Japan buying about 4,200
metric tons (9.2 million pounds), government data show. U.S.
exporters have shipped 1.09 billion pounds in the five months
ended May 31, up 27 percent from a year earlier.  “Global demand, across the board, is in pretty good
shape,” Farley said.“ Where we’re competing against the other
proteins of chicken, hogs and fish, red-meat protein in the big
sense is still competitively cheap compared to the others.”  The forecast for increased demand for Australian beef came
as the company reported a first-half net loss of A$12.6 million.
Shares in Australian Agricultural dropped 1.4 percent to A$1.39.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  