-- 
Japanese Stock Futures Increase as Earnings Outlook Outweighs Debt Concern

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-07-25T23:24:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/japanese-stock-futures-increase-as-earnings-outlook-outweighs-debt-concern.html
Japanese  stock futures  rose as
forecasts for higher earnings at companies from  Canon Inc. (7751)  to
Fujifilm Holdings Corp. outweighed concerns a looming U.S. debt
default could derail the global economic recovery. Australian
futures gained as gold prices rose to a record.  American depositary receipts of Canon climbed 1.8 percent
from the closing share price in Tokyo after the world’s largest
camera maker boosted its profit forecast on higher sales. Those
of Fujifilm Holdings rose 0.2 percent after the Nikkei newspaper
reported operating profit may rise as overseas sales expand., In
 Australia , the world’s second-biggest gold producer, shares may
gain in Newcrest Mining Ltd., the nation’s largest producer of
the precious metal.  Futures on the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 10,070 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
10,050 in  Osaka ,  Japan . They were bid in the pre-market at
10,070 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 0.5 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX
50 Index was little changed in Wellington.  “Japanese companies begin in earnest with reporting April-
June earnings this week, and we got a good start,” said Ryuta Otsuka, a strategist at Toyo Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“Investors increasingly expect good earnings, and that will
probably encourage them to buy stocks in advance.”  Canon yesterday said full-year net income may total 260
billion yen ($3.3 billion), 18 percent higher than its April
prediction. The company also increased its forecasts for revenue,
operating profit and sales of single-lens reflex cameras used by
professionals.  Debt Impasse  Fujifilm’s operating profit will likely rise 17 percent to
about 160 billion yen this fiscal year, ending March, as
overseas sales of medical equipment and digital cameras increase,
the Nikkei newspaper reported, without citing anyone.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. The S&P retreated 0.6 percent yesterday in  New York  as
Republicans and Democrats wrangled over separate plans to raise
the federal debt limit and avoid a government default.  The dollar weakened to as low as 78.06 yen last night in
 Tokyo , the least since March 17, cutting the value of some
overseas income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  Gold futures climbed to a record as U.S. lawmakers failed
to reach an agreement on raising the federal debt limit ahead of
an Aug. 2 deadline, boosting demand for the metal as a haven
investment.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was unchanged this year through
yesterday, compared with a gain of 6.3 percent by the  S&P 500 
and a drop of 1.6 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.4 times for the S&P 500
and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 