-- 
JPMorgan Cuts Commercial-Mortgage Bond Forecast as Volatility Hurts Profit

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-25T17:25:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/jpmorgan-cuts-commercial-mortgage-bond-forecast-as-volatility-hurts-profit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  cut its 2011
forecast for sales of bonds tied to commercial mortgages by as
much as $15 billion as volatile prices curb profitability for
Wall Street banks, impeding a recovery in the  property market .  JPMorgan reduced its forecast to between $30 billion and
$35 billion, the New York-based lender said in a July 22 report.
It had projected in November as much as $45 billion in new
offerings for this year.  Securities tied to property loans have declined as  Europe ’s
fiscal crisis and a stalemate between U.S. lawmakers over
raising the debt ceiling roil markets. Banks sold $3 billion in
commercial-mortgage backed bonds last week at the highest yields
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It has gotten harder to make money in the new issue
market,” according to JPMorgan analysts led by Ed Reardon.  Underwriters accumulate loans over several months to pool
for sale as securities. A drop in values before the debt is sold
means banks won’t receive as much cash as anticipated when the
loans were made. Jumps in spreads may cause lenders to pull back
as it’s difficult to protect against price swings, UBS AG
analysts said in a July 21 report.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. boosted spreads
on BBB bonds by 200 basis points to 700 basis points more than
benchmark swap rates on a $1.5 billion offering sold last week,
according to people familiar with the sales, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t public.  Similar debt rated BBB-, the lowest investment-grade
ranking, was sold to yield 295 basis points, or 2.95 percentage
points, over the benchmark in February.  Trimming Deals  Banks have already begun to trim deals, with one offering
in the pipeline cut to $1.5 billion from $2.3 billion, according
to JPMorgan.  Wall Street  has arranged about $21.6 billion of
commercial-mortgage bond sales this year, compared with $11.5
billion in all of 2010, Bloomberg data show.  The pull-back could impede a recovery in commercial real
estate prices, particularly for properties that aren’t in the
large, coastal cities where insurance companies are focused.
Financial institutions like insurers that hold mortgages on
their books have been snapping up lending assignments on the
best properties, leaving Wall Street to lend more in smaller
cities on less stable properties, according to the UBS analysts.  “The revival of the CMBS market has been a component of the
stabilization,” of commercial real estate prices, the UBS
analysts led by Ross Nussbaum said. “A pullback from this
capital source would be a real concern as real estate values sit
at the intersection of cash flows,” and the cost and
availability of financing.  Maturing Loans  Sales of commercial-mortgage bonds peaked at $234 billion
in 2007, helping fuel a boom in property prices, Bloomberg data
show. Issuance plummeted to $12.2 billion in 2008 as souring
subprime-home loans infected credit markets. The market stayed
shut until November 2009, choking off funding to borrowers with
debt coming due.  Concern that a wave of maturing loans could derail an
economic recovery prompted the  Federal Reserve  to include
commercial-mortgage bonds in its Term Asset-Backed Securities
Loan Facility, or TALF, one of the programs started to jumpstart
credit markets in the wake of the collapse of Lehman Brother
Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  About $158 billion commercial mortgages packaged into bonds
will need to be refinanced through 2014, according to Citigroup
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  