-- 
JPMorgan Hires Ex-Barclays Commodities Banker for Japan

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-07-26T00:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/jpmorgan-hires-ex-barclays-commodities-banker-for-japan-hedging.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  hired Naoki Mita, a former  Barclays Plc (BARC)  commodities banker in Tokyo, to help
bolster its fuel, currency and metal hedging operations in
 Japan .  Mita, 35, joined the corporate solutions division in Tokyo
on July 22, said Sachiko Hasegawa, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co. He will be responsible for marketing the
second-biggest U.S. bank’s commodity and currency hedging
products to Japanese utilities, oil refiners and manufacturers,
a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Japan’s imports of dollar-denominated natural gas have
surged following a record earthquake and tsunami in March that
led to a shutdown of the nation’s nuclear reactors. The New
York-based bank is also targeting Japanese shipping companies
and trading houses including  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , the person said.  “Manufacturers will need more of these financial tools to
control production costs and sustain profit growth,” said
Makoto Imai, an assistant general manager and copper trader at
 Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , the country’s fourth biggest trading company by
market value. “Mita’s commodity experience will enable him to
quickly arrange and bring the financial services to customers.”  Mita reports to managing director Takeo Kaneko in his new
position, according to the person. Tokyo-based Hasegawa declined
to comment on Mita’s duties or the unit’s marketing strategy. At
Barclays, Mita sold similar hedging products, and was with the
London-based bank for about five years.  Utility Demand  Tokyo Electric Power Co. and Chubu Electric Power Co. are
among Japanese atomic-plant operators that boosted liquefied
natural gas imports to offset reductions in nuclear power
generation. The magnitude 9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami
triggered Japan’s worst nuclear accident at  Tokyo Electric ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, about 135 miles (217 kilometers)
northeast of Tokyo.  Ten regional power companies including Tokyo Electric used
about 31 percent more LNG in June and also increased thermal
power generation, according to data compiled by the Federation
of Electric Power Companies of Japan. The country’s LNG import
costs surged 24 percent in June to 60,712 yen ($777) a metric
ton from January, according to Finance Ministry data.  Copper for delivery in three months surged 35 percent on
the London Metals Exchange to $9,655 a metric ton in the past
year. On the New York Mercantile Exchange Crude oil futures
gained 25 percent in the last 12 months to $99.05 a barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowski2@bloomberg.net . 