-- 
Juniper Says Microsoft’s Muglia to Run Software Unit

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-07-27T00:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/juniper-names-former-microsoft-executive-muglia-to-lead-software.html
(Corrects Juniper’s stock exchange in eighth paragraph of
story that ran yesterday.)  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , the second-
largest maker of Internet networking equipment, is reorganizing
its software business under the leadership of Bob Muglia, a 23-
year employee of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   Muglia will be executive vice president for the Software
Solutions unit and oversee Juniper’s overall software strategy,
the company said today in a statement. At Microsoft, Muglia most
recently ran the unit that makes server software for corporate
computers. He will report to Juniper Chief Executive Officer
 Kevin Johnson , who also formerly worked at Microsoft.  Juniper is bolstering its management ranks as it tries to
take market share from larger rival  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  The
addition of Muglia will help improve Juniper’s focus on the
software that underlies its various networking products,
including cloud-computing technology. Cloud systems let
companies run their programs from a few Internet data centers,
rather than keeping software on local hard drives.  “There’s a lot of growth in networking, with the explosion
in devices and the development of the cloud, and Juniper is the
best positioned for this opportunity.” Muglia said in an
interview today. “Cisco is a great company, but I think Juniper
has a more modern approach, a more consistent approach.”  Server Shift  In the 1990s, Muglia helped spearhead Microsoft’s expansion
from personal-computer software into more powerful  business
software  for servers. Until then, many corporate-computing tasks
were handled by more expensive machines such as mainframes. The
Server and Tools division had revenue of $17.1 billion in fiscal
2011, making it Microsoft’s third-largest business behind
Windows and Office.  In recent years, Muglia had focused on developing Azure, a
key element of Microsoft’s cloud-computing strategy. Azure
consists of technologies for running software from an Internet
data center, where it can be updated and secured more easily
than on local servers.  Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer announced Muglia’s departure on
Jan. 10, saying the group needed “new leadership.”  Juniper, based in Sunnyvale,  California , fell 60 cents to
$30.67 today on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have
declined 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  