-- 
K-Pop Stars Lure Japanese Consumers to Buy Samsung, LG Goods

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 
2011-07-25T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/k-pop-stars-lure-japanese-consumers-to-buy-samsung-lg-goods.html
Yuko Ishii, a 53-year-old factory
worker in central Japan, used to feel reluctant about buying
products made in neighboring  South Korea . That changed after she
became a fan of pop stars such as boy band TVXQ.  “I used to rule out Korean products, but now I have no
problem with them,” said Ishii, whose purchases include a
washer made by  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  “If my favorite star was
advertising a South Korean TV, I would definitely buy it. I want
to feel closer to them by buying the same products they use.”  Ishii and other fans of so-called K-pop may help Korean
electronics makers expand in the world’s third-largest economy,
where consumers have traditionally preferred domestic brands.
Last month, Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S II smartphone was
the best-selling mobile phone in  Japan , according to  research
company BCN Inc.  That helped South Korean exports to the nation
jump 50 percent in the first six months of 2011.  “The Korean boom is a tailwind for made-in-Korea
products,” said Hidetomi Tanaka, an economics professor at Jobu
University in Isesaki, Japan. Starting with middle-aged women
who watched Korean soap operas on TV, it has grown to include
young men and women listening to K-pop, Tanaka said.  Samsung, the world’s second-largest mobile phone maker, and
LG are working to gain a foothold in Japan after both companies
previously scaled back their ambitions in the country.  Galaxy Smartphone  “Most of Samsung’s customers in Japan are young people in
their 20s and 30s,” said  James Chung , a spokesman for Samsung
in Seoul. “Their interest in Korean stars seems to be reflected
in their purchases of our products.”  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung stopped selling
electronics through retail channels in Japan in 2007, narrowing
its distribution to corporate clients such as  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437) ,
Japan’s largest mobile-phone carrier.  Last month, the Galaxy S II, which was introduced in Japan
on June 23, outsold  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 4 and Sharp Corp.’s
Aquos to claim the local No. 1 sales ranking.  Samsung tied with  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , Japan’s biggest home
appliance maker, as the third-biggest handset vendor in Japan
with an 11 percent market share in the quarter ended March 31,
according to  Strategy Analytics . No South Korean maker had
previously ranked higher than sixth, the Boston-based research
company estimated.  ‘Difficult Market’  LG resumed television sales in Japan in November after a
two-year absence. The Seoul-based company now aims to win a 5
percent share of shipment volumes within five years, said
Kyuhong Lee, president of LG’s Japan unit.  “Japan is a more difficult market than anywhere else
because of high customer demands,” Lee said at a  Tokyo  press
conference in June. “There are certainly customers here who
recognize the quality of our products, and the number is
growing.”  South Korean exports to Japan jumped 50 percent to $17.75
billion in the first six months this year, according to the
Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  in  Seoul . The growth rate
accelerated from a 31 percent expansion a year earlier.  South Korean actors seized the attention of middle-aged
Japanese housewives in 2003 when public broadcaster NHK aired a
drama series titled “Winter Sonata,” a soap opera starring Bae
Young Joon, known in Japan by his nickname Yon-sama.  Live performances by pop stars such as Girls’ Generation
may help broaden the appeal of Korean culture in Japan as in the
rest of the region, said Kazuko Takatsuki, a director at
Hakuhodo Inc., Japan’s second-largest advertising company.  LG Advertisements  LG hired KARA, a female Korean dance and music group, to
appear in advertisements in Japan for its Optimus smartphones.
The group topped Japan’s weekly DVD sales in February, according
to  Oricon Inc. (4800)  Only five other foreign artists have done so
previously, including Led Zeppelin, The Beatles and  Michael
Jackson .  “We hired KARA because they are popular among young women,
whom we are targeting,” said Donggun Kim, general manager at
LG’s Japan unit.  The Korean manufacturers have yet to win over some Japanese
customers. In a survey in November, 52 percent of consumers in
the country said they considered Korean products “cheap,”
while 25 percent said they didn’t trust the quality of the goods,
according to Tokyo-based My Voice Communications Inc.  ‘Room to Grow’  The Japanese market remains challenging for overseas
manufacturers, Samsung’s Chung said. The company still has no
plan to sell televisions in the country.  “Japan’s distribution channels favor Japanese brands, and
they have a structure that’s difficult for foreign companies to
break into,” Chung said.  Still, the success of the Galaxy S II is boosting Samsung’s
brand image, said Michito Kimura, a senior analyst in Tokyo at
research company IDC.  “Samsung is a brand in the Japanese market with the
strongest growth momentum,” Kimura said. “Samsung has a room
to grow, especially with young consumers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Maki Shiraki in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  