-- 
Kamikaze Shield, Radar Block Were Hits at World War II Summit

-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 
2011-07-25T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/kamikaze-shield-radar-block-big-hits-at-world-war-ii-sci-fi-summit-books.html
During World War II, a group of
prominent U.S. science-fiction writers gathered at a naval base
in Philadelphia to dream up ways to help beat the Axis powers.
The idea was to tap their literary and scientific backgrounds to
devise ways to render ships invisible to radar or deter kamikaze
attacks.  In “ The Astounding, the Amazing, and the Unknown ,”
novelist  Paul Malmont  uses this think tank as the launch pad for
a rambunctious pulp adventure peopled with real-life authors
including Isaac Asimov, Robert Heinlein and the inimitable L.
Ron Hubbard.  “Try to figure out where imagination ends and reality
begins,” is how Heinlein describes their work. “Trying to make
pulp trump reality.”  The results are uneven, but the action is fast in what
amounts to a lighthearted combination of Caleb Carr’s “ The
Alienist ” and Alan Moore and Kevin O’Neill’s “ The League of
Extraordinary Gentlemen .”  To really enjoy the book, get familiar with the characters’
actual pre-war short stories (“Nightfall,” by Asimov, is
legendary; Heinlein’s “Life-Line” is a gem). In Malmont’s
telling, the characters are reflections of their work.  Heinlein is the guiding hand in the story, as he was in
real life to many writers of his generation. By the time the war
reached America, he had established a reputation as one of the
best science-fiction storytellers in the country. His postwar
work arguably revolutionized the genre. In the novel, driven
from a promising naval career by tuberculosis, he hungers for
frontline action.  Asimov’s Fear of Flying  Asimov is portrayed as the meek prodigy, afraid of heights
and, ironically for a writer of space tales, afraid of flying.
In a charming if predictable fashion, he emerges as the intrepid
and passionate hero of Malmont’s piece.  Then there’s Hubbard, the comic foil in the story. Malmont
casts Ron as a disgraced naval officer always looking for the
main chance. The running joke in the novel is that he isn’t much
of a writer, despite having published mysteries, westerns and
science-fiction stories in bulk before the war.  Eventually, the Hubbard character gets a stash of religious
texts from a number of faith traditions and finds himself
trapped inside an active volcano. Those familiar with the lore
of Scientology, the religious movement the real Hubbard founded
in the 1950s, will surely not miss the references.  Walk-On Characters  Many other literary and historical figures make appearances
in “Astounding.” Some, such as Hugo Gernsback, whose magazines
incubated much U.S. science fiction, seem to have been included
for their own sake. Others, such as “Doc Savage” creator
Lester Dent, play key roles in the story.  The plot involves the work of electrical engineer and
inventor Nikola Tesla, who might as well be a character out of
fiction, given his enormous accomplishments and tragic end (he
died alone and in debt in 1943). There are death rays,
subterranean vaults and secret passages beneath the streets of
 Manhattan . All of this builds to a pulp-worthy climax complete
with snarling villain who would have gotten away with it, if it
hadn’t been for those meddling nerds!  “The Astounding, the Amazing, and the Unknown” is
published by  Simon & Schuster  (418 pages, $26). To buy this book
in North America click  here .  ( Andrew Dunn  is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the review:
Andrew Dunn in New York at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net 
CBS US <Equity> CN 