-- 
Killing Rampage Will Put Norway’s Tolerance to the Test: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-25T21:10:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/killing-rampage-will-put-norway-s-tolerance-to-the-test-view.html
For  Norway , the July 22 bombing in
its capital, Oslo, and the subsequent mass murder of young Labor
Party activists at a nearby island retreat, Utoya, is an event
on a scale that is hard to imagine.  Norway is a small country of 4.7 million. In the U.S.,
think of a huge explosion in  Washington  that destroys several
blocks of government buildings, including the  Supreme Court  and
a third of the Cabinet departments, followed by the shooting
deaths of many thousands of politicians and their families
assembled at a summer convention. That is the magnitude of what
Norwegian citizens faced as they woke up the day after Anders
Behring Breivik carried out his crazed mission to save Christian
 Europe  from the invading Muslim hordes that he sees as a threat
to Western civilization.  Norway has played a special role in world affairs. It was a
strong partner against the  Soviet Union  in the  North Atlantic
Treaty Organization . Its diplomats have helped make peace by
sponsoring the secret talks that led to the Oslo Accords between
Israelis and Palestinians in 1993. And it has inspired millions
by hosting the ceremony for the Nobel Peace Prize.  Norwegians take pride in their country’s tolerance. They
will now be tested. Breivik’s family, friends and those who
share his worldview will soon be subject to intense scrutiny.
Some will want to close the criminal proceedings against
Breivik, lest he gain the publicity he craves for his brand of
right-wing extremism. That would be a mistake.  Europeans who belong to the growing movement of anti-
Islamists but who reject violence may be tarred unfairly by the
victims’ families, who may hold them responsible for an event
they had nothing to do with. That should be avoided. Politicians
will be tempted to exploit the rampage to further their agendas.
They should restrain themselves.  For now, the evidence suggests that Breivik acted alone.
There is no terrorist group to target in response; no state
sponsor to blame. The most painful aspect of this tragedy may be
the absence of a larger meaning. Whether a gunman believes
himself to be acting on behalf of Christianity, Islam, Judaism
or nihilism, one well-armed sociopath clearly has the power to
kill some of Norway’s people. We can only hope he doesn’t have
the power to change Norway’s values.  Read more Bloomberg View editorials.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 