-- 
Kimberly-Clark Second-Quarter Profit Falls 18% as Commodities Costs Rise

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-07-25T20:21:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/kimberly-clark-profit-declines-18-on-higher-commodities-costs.html
Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , the maker of
Scott toilet paper and Huggies diapers, reported a decline in
second-quarter profit, hurt by higher costs for commodities.  Net income fell 18 percent to $408 million, or $1.03 a
share, from $498 million, or $1.20, a year earlier, the Dallas-
based company said today in a statement. Excluding restructuring
costs, profit was $1.18, compared with the $1.14 average of 15
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Tom Falk is raising prices on most
items Kimberly-Clark sells in  North America  to make up for
rising costs for pulp, oil and other raw materials. In April,
the maker of Cottonelle toilet paper more than doubled its
estimate for raw materials expense inflation for this year.  As a result, adjusted earnings this year are “more
likely” to fall in the lower half of the company’s previously
forecast range of $4.80 to $5.05 a share, Falk said today.  The company will continue to cut costs to counter raw
material inflation, Falk said. Kimberly-Clark now expects as
much as $350 million in savings this year, up from a previous
target of a maximum of $300 million.  Consumers are “willing to spend a little bit more for a
little luxury or something that’s a little bit better for their
family,” Falk said today in a telephone interview. “Overall, I
would say, it’s getting slowly better.” Consumers have
responded well to the U by Kotex feminine products and to jeans
diapers that cost a bit more than basic items, he said.  Strategic Buyers  Kimberly-Clark fell $1.42, or 2.1 percent, to $66.48 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has
advanced 5.5 percent this year.  Kimberly-Clark was among potential strategic buyers
billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  said  Clorox Co. (CLX)  should seek bids
from July 15, when he made a $10.2 billion takeover offer for
the maker of the namesake bleach. Icahn raised his offer to
about $10.7 billion last week, after his earlier bid was
rejected.  The company has no plans to make big acquisitions, Falk
said today on a conference call, adding that Clorox is a “well-
managed company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in New York at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  