-- 
Kings of Leon Revive Lynyrd Skynyrd With Beer, Southern Rock

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-07-25T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/kings-of-leon-revive-lynyrd-skynyrd-with-beer-southern-rock.html
The music of Kings of Leon is best
appreciated with beer. A point to keep in mind as the Tennessee
band starts a North American tour today.  Fans in Orange Beach,  Alabama , can expect a set as coarse
as a truck driver’s humor and as powerful as a juggernaut, based
on the Kings’ summer shows in  Europe .  Loud, unshaven and gnarlier than on their records, the
three Followill brothers and their lead-guitar playing cousin
Matthew Followill churn up the enthusiastically lubricated
crowds with lustily unreconstructed, arena-honed Southern rock.  “Come Around Sundown,” the group’s fifth studio album,
has sold more than 2 million copies since its release in
October. The quartet aims to push this closer to the 6.5 million
achieved by its predecessor “Only by the Night” from 2008 and
has a grueling road ahead that swings across the South before
hitting  New York  in August and  California  in September.  Not everyone likes the Kings’ increasingly labored play on
grizzled  Lynyrd Skynyrd  stereotypes.  Caleb’s rural drawl recites lyrics that perpetually gaze
down to his navel, or, more accurately, a critical couple of
inches below it.  The brazen application of U2 pilfered stadium techniques is
everywhere: The band managed to call a song “Sex on Fire”
without overdosing on irony or combusting with embarrassment.  Still, some people love the song, given the response at the
larger festivals in  London ’s Hyde Park and elsewhere. It
perfectly ignited huge crowds of drunken sunburned young men --
an undeniably effective big bleary sing-along rock moment.  Backwater Swagger  Inebriated young men are not great arbiters of fine taste.
Yet, like teenage girls with pop music, they do know a great
tune and a good pose. The Followills hit on target with their
pretty-boy looks, backwater swagger and loud guitars.  “Four Kicks” boogies like ZZ Top on dirty gasoline. More
purist Southern rock songs from the early albums are refried in
a deep grunge. “The Bucket” in particular serves to remind
that the Followills have a good ear for a hook and chorus.  “The Immortals” sounds like moonshine Coldplay,
“Radioactive” like a ravaged Bono.  At best, Kings of Leon comes across like a U2 that just
wants to play rock ‘n’ roll and get the beers in, not change the
world. And there’s nothing at all wrong with that.  Rating: **.  Information:  http://www.kingsofleon.com  and
https://www.kingsofleon.com/pages/tour. After the U.S. dates,
the group plays in  Canada ,  South Africa  and  Australia .  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 