-- 
Naira Slips as Nigeria Dollar Demand Rises to Four-Month High on Inflation

-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 
2011-07-25T15:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/naira-slips-as-nigeria-dollar-demand-rises-to-four-month-high-on-inflation.html
Nigeria ’s naira slipped to the
weakest in five sales at an auction today as demand for dollars
surged to the highest in four months on expectations the central
bank may raise its main rate tomorrow to curb inflation.  The currency of sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest economy
depreciated by 0.1 percent to 150.26 per dollar at the central
bank’s bi-weekly auction today. It was unchanged at 152.30 per
dollar in the  interbank market  at 4:24 p.m. in Lagos, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank sold $400
million, less than the $545.5 million demanded by lenders, which
was the biggest amount sought since the March 28 sale.  The central bank may increase its benchmark  interest rate 
to 8.5 percent from 8 percent, a fourth advance this year, to
bring borrowing costs above inflation and slow price growth to
below 10 percent, according to a survey of three analysts.  “Dealers are expecting a jack up in the benchmark rate and
cash reserve ratios” as the central bank seeks to curb
inflation, which has caused  currency depreciation  as dollar
demand grows to pay for imported goods, Babatunde Obaniyi,
currency analyst with Afrinvest West Africa Ltd., said in a
phone interview from Lagos.  Inflation in the West African country slowed to 10.2
percent in June, from 12.4 percent in May, the National Bureau
of Statistics said on July 18. Nigeria targets inflation at
below 10 percent.  The central bank seeks to maintain the  exchange rate  within
a band of plus or minus 3 percentage points to control
inflation, Governor Sanusi Lamido said on May 24.  The central bank has been using foreign-currency reserves
to support the naira and keep it within the targets. Its
external reserves stood at $33.5 billion as of July 22 compared
to $38 billion a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  