-- 
News Corp. Shareholder Group Calls for Change in Rupert Murdoch’s Role

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-25T20:10:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/news-corp-investors-want-to-split-ceo-chairman.html
News Corp. should split the roles of
chairman and chief executive officer now held by  Rupert Murdoch 
and make other changes, according to the Interfaith Center on
Corporate Responsibility, which represents about 300
organizations with assets of more than $100 billion.  The ICCR is crafting a statement pushing for change at News
Corp., facing fallout from alleged phone hacking at one of its
London newspapers, and plans to release it this week, according
to spokeswoman Susana McDermott.  The statement will call for the chairman and CEO positions
to be held by two different people, and it will also include
suggestions for other changes, McDermott said, without
identifying them. The ICCR includes  religious organizations and
funds  whose goal is to integrate “social values into investor
actions,” according to its website. A “significant number” of
the investors who are calling for the changes are shareholders
in  News Corp. (NWSA) , McDermott said.  News Corp.’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid is
accused of hacking hundreds of voice mails, including those of
murder and terrorism victims, and bribing police for
confidential information. Murdoch and his son James testified
before a U.K. parliament committee last week over the
allegations.  The scandal has led to the resignation and subsequent
arrest of Rebekah Brooks, former Chief Executive Officer of News
Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit. At least ten people have been
arrested in total, including ex-News of the World editor  Andy
Coulson , who was U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s press chief
until January.  ‘Murdoch Discount’  The New York-based Christian Brothers Investment Services,
a member of ICCR which holds 30,755 Class B voting shares of
News Corp., has already filed a petition with News Corp. seeking
the CEO and chairman split. News Corp. has considered elevating
Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey  to CEO, people with
knowledge of the situation said last week.  Analysts and investors, including Don Yacktman, whose
investment company was the eighth biggest holder of News Corp.
Class A shares as of March 31, have acknowledged a “Murdoch
discount,” which keeps the share price of News Corp. lower than
the sum of its parts.  Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal Al Saud, whose Kingdom
Holding Co. holds 7 percent of the voting stock, said he was
“supportive and confident in the leadership of Rupert and  James Murdoch ” in an e-mail July 20.  News Corp. fell 20 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $16.22 at 4
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The Class A
shares have declined 10 percent since the  Guardian newspaper 
reported on July 4 that News of the World accessed the voice
mail of murdered teenager Milly Dowler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  