-- 
NFL Players Unanimously Back 10-Year Contract With Owners to End Lockout

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-07-25T19:12:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/nfl-player-leaders-unanimously-accept-contract.html
Representatives for National
Football League players approved a 10-year labor agreement,
ending a four-month shutdown and allowing the U.S.’s richest and
most-popular sports league to reopen for business.  NFL Players Association  leadership voted unanimously to
recommend that players accept the deal and re-establish their
union, according to  DeMaurice Smith , the group’s executive
director.  “Football is back,” Commissioner  Roger Goodell  told
reporters outside the association’s  Washington  headquarters.  Teams can begin signing drafted and undrafted first-year
players tomorrow; negotiating with, but not signing, other
players; and making trades. As of July 29, teams can begin
signing free agents and training camps may open 15 days before
each team’s first preseason game.  Owners last week approved by a 31-0 vote the decade-long
deal that caps team payrolls at about $120 million this season,
with players receiving another $22 million or so in benefits.
The players must receive at least 47 percent of the league’s
revenue, projected at a record $9.3 billion in 2011, throughout
the 10 years.  The agreement also limits how much teams can spend on
first-year players, allows current players to stay in the
league’s medical plan for life and allows them more days off,
with fewer offseason practices. The deal also provides between
$900 million and $1 billion for retiree benefits.  Mara’s View  Giants owner John Mara said negotiations had been long and
difficult.  “Neither side got everything they wanted, but I think what
we did achieve is a fair deal that will stand the test of
time,” Mara said. “We have something here that’s going to
serve the best interests of the  National Football League  for
many years to come.”  The NFL in March locked out players, who dissolved their
union and sued in federal court, claiming antitrust violations
and wage fixing, led by Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Tom Brady ,  Peyton Manning  and  Drew Brees .  The work stoppage ended 24 years of labor peace, about five
weeks after the  Green Bay Packers  beat the Pittsburgh Steelers
31-25 in the Super Bowl title game, attracting the largest
television audience in U.S. history.  Compressed Signings  The league last week held a seminar for club executives
outlining the terms of the labor agreement and the calendar. The
season will begin with a free agency period that Philadelphia
Eagles owner Jeff Lurie described as extraordinarily compressed,
leaving his club hoping to be “opportunistic” as teams try to
hire players about two weeks before playing preseason games.  Players available include  Carolina Panthers  running back
DeAngelo Williams, New York Jets receivers Braylon Edwards and
 Santonio Holmes  and Oakland Raiders cornerback  Nnamdi Asomugha .  “It’s going to be intense,” Lurie said. “I think teams
are going to have to really make smart decisions, as opposed to
instinctive-type ones. Hopefully, a team has planned well for
the last several months and they know exactly what they’re
trying to accomplish.”  Smith said players still must re-establish their union,
which was disbanded to precipitate the antitrust suit.
Negotiators are also still working on issues, including health
and safety, pensions, grievances and discipline, that require
players to be unionized, he said.  One Cancellation  The lockout canceled just the preseason’s first game
between the Chicago Bears and St. Louis Rams, scheduled for Aug.
7 in Canton,  Ohio . Goodell last week said there wasn’t enough
time to prepare.  The regular season is scheduled to open Sept. 8 when the
Packers host the  New Orleans Saints .  The NFL gained publicity and attention during the lockout,
according to Eric Wright, vice president for research and
development at  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based Joyce Julius, which
measures the value of media exposure and sponsorships.  The number of references to the NFL appearing in news
publications doubled in May and June to 37,000 from 18,300 a
year ago, Wright said. The league would have needed to spend $40
million to buy all the print, television and internet exposure
it received in those two months, he said.  Goodell said he knows that the lockout still angered fans.  “We know what we did to frustrate our fans over the last
several months,” he said. “I think we have some work to do,
though, to make sure that they understand that we are sorry for
the frustration we put them through over the last six months but
our commitment is to bring them better football going forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 