-- 
Nigeria Likely to Raise Benchmark Interest Rate to 8.5% to Curb Inflation

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-07-25T06:43:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/nigeria-likely-to-raise-benchmark-interest-rate-to-8-5-to-curb-inflation.html
Nigeria ’s central bank may raise its
benchmark interest rate tomorrow for the fourth time this year
to bring borrowing costs above inflation and slow price-growth
to below 10 percent, according to a survey of analysts.  Bank Governor Lamido Sanusi will raise the monetary policy
rate to 8.5 percent from 8 percent, said London-based analysts
 Razia Khan  at Standard Chartered Plc, Samir Gadio of Standard
Bank Plc and  Alan Cameron  at CSL Stockbrokers Ltd. He is due to
announce the decision in a televised press conference at 2.30
p.m. local time.  “The debate is not about whether the MPR keeps rising - we
are convinced it will - but how quickly it will rise,” Cameron
said in an e-mailed note on July 22. “We are still a long way
from positive real  interest rates .”  Inflation slowed in June to 10.2 percent from 12.4 percent
the month before after the naira strengthened against the
dollar, easing import costs. The central bank of  Africa ’s top
oil producer has raised rates as it attempts to slow inflation
that peaked at 15.6 percent in February of last year and tries
to stem a slide in the local currency. The naira has
strengthened 2.7 percent against the dollar since June 1.  “Even though the naira has been firmer in recent weeks,
demand for foreign exchange remains elevated and foreign capital
is unlikely to really start flowing in until positive real rates
are achieved,” Cameron said.  Plans by President Goodluck Jonathan to end fuel subsidies
this year may also push prices higher.  Most members of the monetary policy committee “seem to be
keenly aware of the impact that fuel price deregulation could
have and for this reason are likely to continue voting for
hikes,” Cameron said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 