-- 
Nomura Sees Hungary 2012 Deficit at 4.4% of GDP on Growth Woes

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-07-25T13:59:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/nomura-sees-hungary-2012-deficit-at-4-4-of-gdp-on-growth-woes.html
Hungary’s budget deficit will
probably significantly overshoot the government’s target next
year, reaching 4.4 percent of economic output as flagging growth
endangers the Cabinet’s fiscal plans, Nomura Plc said.  The risk is that plans to keep the budget in check as the
economy slows will “derail” and the government will “suspend
existing reform plans that are of a more positive structural
nature,” economist Peter Attard Montalto said in an e-mail
today. The government forecasts a 2.5 percent deficit in 2012.  Hungary has imposed special taxes on some industries and
effectively nationalized private pension fund savings to lower
the budget gap and state debt. Still, the weakening of the
forint threatens to further undermine domestic demand as
households’ repayment on Swiss franc-based mortgages soar. The
government needs to find additional savings to meet its deficit-
cutting target next year, the central bank said on July 14.  “Risks to the budget, particularly next year, are
therefore very significant and this is why the government has
already spoken of having additional large reserves in the
budget,” Montalto said.  The administration of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is likely
to introduce “further one-off, growth reducing measures,” he
said.  “We will see further industry and banking taxes in order
to offset any backtracking and stalling of benefit reforms,
together with further spending cuts for government agencies and
revenue reallocations,” Montalto said. “Such policy itself
still causes lower growth.”  Hungary’s growth potential may drop by as much as 0.5
percentage points if the strength of the Swiss franc versus the
forint persists,  Mihaly Varga , chief of staff for the prime
minister, said in an interview with  Gazdasagi Radio  last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  