-- 
Norwegian Police Probe Shooting Massacre Suspect’s Claims of ‘More Cells’

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-07-26T16:24:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/norwegian-police-probe-shooting-massacre-suspect-s-claims-of-more-cells-.html
The man responsible for  Norway ’s
worst post-World War II atrocity signaled he may not have acted
alone as police defended their handling of attacks that left 76
people dead.  Anders Behring Breivik began eight weeks of pre-trial
detention today after he admitted to a shooting rampage and car
bombing intended to inflict the “greatest possible loss” to
the ruling Labor Party and halt what he sees as the
“Islamization” of Norway and Europe. Police said they may seek
to bring the country’s first charge of crimes against humanity
against Breivik, with a maximum sentence of 30 years.  The suspect was ordered to spend four weeks in isolation to
avoid all chance of contact with potential accomplices. Breivik,
32, who had earlier claimed that he acted alone in the attacks,
told interrogators there were “two cells in Norway and several
cells around  Europe  and the Western world,” Geir Lippestad,
Breivik’s defense lawyer said in an interview.  “These are one-person cells he is talking about, so he is
talking about two other persons,” Police Prosecutor Paal-Fredrik
Hjort Kraby said in an interview. “It is unlikely that they
would have the determination and the funding and the time -- he
has been planning this for a long time.”  Police Chief of Staff Johan Fredriksen said there was no
evidence Breivik hadn’t acted alone.  Norway is struggling to comprehend the motives behind the
July 22 twin attacks on Utoeya island and Oslo that have left
the nation in mourning. More than 150,000 people gathered in
front of the capital’s  City Hall  yesterday with roses in their
hands as Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg urged them to engage in
the democratic process and not give in to terror.  ‘Go Through Everything’  The Labor leader earlier rebuffed suggestions that the
police could have acted sooner to stop the carnage on Utoeya,
where his party was holding a youth camp. Now is the time to
comfort the relatives and friends of those killed and injured,
and “afterward we will go through everything that happened,”
he said in an interview on BBC World.  “It is very important that we have an open and critical
approach to how all actors involved handle such a case,”
Justice Minister Knut Storberget said outside Oslo Police
Station today. “But I have to say that I think the police have
done a very good job in this situation and handled the areas on
which criticism has been raised very well so far.”  Armed with a pistol and semi-automatic rifle, Breivik
killed 68 people at the island camp, about 40 kilometers (25
miles) from Oslo. He killed eight more in a car bomb blast
earlier that day in the government district of the capital.
Police yesterday revised down an earlier estimate of a total of
93 casualties. They plan to start making public the names of the
victims at 6 p.m. local time in Norway.  Weapons Manifesto  Police have declined to say which type of gun he used for
the attacks or how he acquired the weapons. In a 1,500-page
manifesto posted online hours before the attacks, Breivik said
that he made an application for a Glock 17 pistol and that he
acquired a semi-automatic Ruger Mini 14. He also owned a Benelli
Nova Pump-Action shotgun and a .308 Win bolt rifle, he said.  “This whole case has indicated that he’s insane,” lawyer
Lippestad said today. Even so, “we still have to see the
medical reports.” Breivik said he took drugs to boost his
strength and stamina in the attacks, Lippestad said.  Judge Kim Heger told reporters yesterday that while Breivik
admitted to the dual attacks, he did not plead guilty.  ‘Sharp Signal’  “The operation was not intended to kill as many people as
possible, but to give ‘a sharp signal’ to the people that can’t
be misunderstood,” Heger cited Breivik as saying in court. “As
long as the  Labor Party  follows its ideological line and
continues to deconstruct Norwegian culture and import Muslims en
masse they must take responsibility for this treason.”  Heger said that he approved a request by the prosecutor to
hold a closed hearing out of concerns over safety and that
Breivik may hinder the investigation by contacting possible
accomplices. Breivik can receive no visits, nor send or receive
letters for the entire eight-week period of his pre-trial
detention, Heger said.  If convicted on the two counts of Acts of Terror he has
been charged with, Breivik could receive a maximum sentence of
21 years in prison, Norway’s toughest punishment for such a
crime. Police said they might seek to charge Breivik with crimes
against humanity, a law that has not been applied in Norway so
far and which carries a maximum 30-year prison sentence.  Crimes Against Humanity  “At this point he is only charged for violation of the
terrorism laws,” police spokesman Sturla Henriksbo said by
phone. “In Norway, we recently introduced penal laws against
‘crimes against humanity’ and  war crimes . They have never been
used, but in relation to this incident the prosecution service
will of course look through all the available laws and make a
judgment as to whether they are applicable in this case.”  Once Breivik has served his sentence, prosecutors could ask
that he remain incarcerated on the grounds that he might repeat
a violent crime. Breivik would then need to be retried every
five years, according to police spokeswoman Carol Sandbye.  Norwegian authorities will step up monitoring of extreme
right-wing groups as a result of the attacks, the justice
minister said.  “I view this case as so grotesque and so particular that
it would be odd not to be concerned at any given time that
others might get the same ideas,” Storberget said.  No Surveillance  The Norwegian Police Security Service had not placed Breivik
on a watch list or under surveillance after his name appeared on
an Interpol list of individuals who had purchased chemicals over
the internet, Siv Alsen, a spokewoman for PST said.  “The purpose was not to look at the people who were buying
these chemicals, but to look at the companies that were
selling,” Alsen said today. “There was no reason for further
investigation.”  Polish police is interrogating the owner of a Polish
company that sold legal chemicals to Breivik as a witness, Pawel
Bialek, deputy head of the country’s internal security agency
said yesterday.  U.K. police are assisting Norwegian officials with the
probe to see if there is any connection between British and
Norwegian extremist groups, a spokesman for British Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday. There was no link between
Breivik and  Germany , the Interior Ministry in Berlin said.  Police Prosecutor Hjort Kraby said Norwegian authorities
were working with several countries, declining to specify which
besides the U.K.  Island Rampage  Breivik’s rampage on the island lasted 90 minutes, during
which he is alleged to have called on the youths to come to him
for police protection, before shooting them point-blank.
According to newspaper  Dagbladet , Breivik said during his
interrogation that he aimed to kill former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, known in Norway as the “Country’s Mother”
after her 10 years at the helm of the Labor Party.  Breivik “expected that he would be stopped earlier by
police or somebody else,” his lawyer said. “He was surprised
that he reached the island.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;
{Josiane Kremer} in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  