-- 
Obama Says Deficit Plan Must Include Higher Taxes on Wealthy

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-07-25T18:40:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/obama-says-deficit-plan-must-include-higher-taxes-on-wealthy-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  told a
Hispanic group he won’t back deficit-cutting measures that hit
government entitlement programs without making sure the wealthy
“pay their fair share.”  “Are we a nation that asks only the middle class and the
poor to bear the burden?” the president said in Washington at a
luncheon speech to the annual conference of the  National Council
of La Raza , the largest national Hispanic civil rights and
advocacy organization in the U.S. “Are we a people who break
the promises we made to seniors?”  The president said Congress must move on proposals such as
extending a payroll tax cut and creating a fund to pay for
infrastructure improvements. Even as lawmakers work on plans to
shrink the deficit, the nation can’t afford to slash programs
such as education and research that will help the nation’s long-
term economic growth.  Obama reiterated his call for a balanced approach to
 deficit reduction  in order to raise the nation’s debt ceiling
and said both sides need to reach a compromise, without directly
responding to the latest proposals floated by congressional
leaders.  “Neither party is blameless for the decisions that led to
our debt,” Obama said. “But both parties have a responsibility
to come together and solve the problem and make sure that the
American people aren’t hurt on this issue.”  Stalemate  The administration and Congress are at a stalemate on
raising the federal debt ceiling before Aug. 2, when the
Treasury Department says the U.S. will no longer be able to pay
all of its obligations. Talks broke down at last week as House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republicans, broke off
negotiations with the White House and both sides blamed each
other for the impasse.  Obama blamed Republicans for standing in the way of a
measure to boost the economy, deal with the deficit and act on
revamping U.S. immigration laws. “Compromise is becoming a
dirty word” in Washington, Obama said.  The president’s appearance before the largest and fastest
growing minority group in the U.S. reflects part of his strategy
in gearing up for a 2012 re-election campaign. A White House-
hosted Hispanic policy conference on July 14 and a one-day trip
to  Puerto Rico  last month are part of an intense outreach to
Hispanic voters.  Hispanic Support  Hispanic voters supported Obama over Republican  John McCain , 67 percent to 31 percent, in 2008, according to exit
polls by the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center in Washington.
There are more than 50 million Hispanics in the U.S.  Obama has urged Democrats and Republicans in Congress to
work on revamping the nation’s immigration laws, calling current
laws a “broken system.” Still, the push for an immigration
overhaul, like many issues, has taken a back seat to the debt
ceiling debate.  Changing immigration laws requires bipartisan support, and
Obama appealed to Hispanics to help lobby for change one vote at
a time.  “I need a dance partner here,” Obama said, referring to
congressional Republicans. “I need you to keep building a
movement for change, one they can’t stop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at   or
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  