-- 
Oil Rises as U.S. Debt Concern Weakens Dollar, Countering Demand Concern

-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 
2011-07-26T12:42:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/oil-trades-near-two-day-low-in-new-york-on-u-s-debt-ceiling-stalemate.html
Oil advanced as the U.S. President’s
warning that the country’s debt stalemate may damage the economy
weakened the dollar, boosting the appeal of commodities and
countering concern that the crisis will hurt demand.  Futures in  New York  gained as much as 0.8 percent as  Barack Obama  warned of a “deep economic crisis” without a compromise
to avert an Aug. 2 default. The dollar fell against all its 16
major peers, making dollar-priced assets such as oil appear
cheaper. An Energy Department report tomorrow may show U.S.
crude stockpiles dropped for an eighth week.  “All the support in the oil market is coming from the
dollar,” said  Roland Stenzel , a crude trader at E&T Energie
Handelsgesellschaft mbH in Vienna. “Last week it was all about
the European Union, this week it’s about the U.S.”  Crude for September delivery climbed as much as 78 cents to
$99.98 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $99.66 at 1:40 p.m. London time. Brent for
September settlement was at $118.48 a barrel, up 54 cents, on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The European benchmark contract traded at a premium of
$18.68 a barrel to West Texas Intermediate, compared with a
record close of $22.63 on July 14.  New York crude gained 9 percent this year as the Dollar
Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against six trading
partners, declined 6.8 percent. The dollar weakened to $1.4483
against the euro from $1.4377 yesterday. It fell to a record low
versus the Swiss franc.  Sovereign Debt  “With issues of sovereign debt persisting,  oil prices  are
likely to struggle to find any upside momentum,” Amrita Sen, an
oil analyst at Barclays Plc in  London , said in an e-mail.
“Macro concerns and debt-related fears are likely to dominate
the fundamentals.”  U.S. crude supplies dropped 1.75 million barrels from 351.7
million last week, according to the median of eight analyst
estimates in the Bloomberg News survey. That would mark the
longest stretch of declines in more than three years. Gasoline
inventories may have climbed 125,000 barrels, the survey shows.  September WTI closed higher than its 50-day moving average
on July 20 and has stayed above that level, “which would
suggest a consolidation for a further move higher,” MF Global
Holdings Ltd. analyst Tom Pawlicki said in a report.  The moving average convergence-divergence, an indicator of
technical strength, turned positive on that day, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Front-month futures have resistance
along the upper Bollinger Band, at about $100.60 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Graham in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  