-- 
Oil at $120 Becomes Biggest Energy Bet as Futures Leave Forecasters Behind

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-07-25T21:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/oil-at-120-becomes-biggest-energy-bet-as-futures-leave-forecasters-behind.html
The biggest bet in the oil market
has become a 20 percent increase to $120 by the end of the year
as global growth drives demand for raw materials.  The number of contracts held by traders in options to buy
West Texas Intermediate crude at $120 a barrel in December
totaled 45,502 lots on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  as of
July 21, 4,226 lots more than the next-highest wager, which is
for $125. Open interest in the two contracts jumped 29 percent
in the past four weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Traders anticipate this year’s gains will exceed forecasts
of the most accurate strategists as economic expansion in
emerging markets outweighs the debt crisis in Europe, slowing
U.S. growth and efforts by Saudi Arabia and the International
Energy Agency to curb prices. Bullish bets mark a turnaround
from April, when $80 a barrel was the favorite wager and futures
fell as much as 22 percent in the next two months.  “We’re in a sweet spot,” said  Gordon Kwan , the Hong Kong-
based head of regional energy research at Mirae Asset Securities
Ltd. and the most accurate forecaster for New York oil among 26
analysts ranked by Bloomberg in the past eight quarters. “Oil
prices are well supported,” he said in a July 20 interview.
“It’s very profitable for the energy sector but not high enough
to kill any economic growth.”  Oil for September delivery fell 67 cents, or 0.7 percent,
to settle at $99.20 today on the Nymex. That follows four
straight weekly advances and a 26 percent jump in the past year.
Futures are 33 percent below the record $147.27 a barrel reached
in July 2008. Prices have averaged $98.37 so far in 2011.  Oil Estimate  The median estimate of the five most accurate forecasters
in Bloomberg rankings over the eight quarters through June 30 is
for crude to rise 2.5 percent to $101.30 by year’s end. Kwan
predicts WTI will trade from $90 to $110 the rest of 2011.  WTI has climbed 8.4 percent in 2011 as armed conflict in
 Libya  halted about 1.6 million barrels a day of production,
compared with the 11 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Total Return Index of 24 raw materials. The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  has
advanced 7 percent. Government bonds have returned 1.7 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Sovereign
Broad Market Plus Index.  Oil demand will rise to a record next year, driven by
China, according to the IEA. The Paris-based adviser to 28
industrialized nations said last week it won’t provide more oil
from its stockpiles, after announcing June 23 it would release
supplies to help compensate for lost Libyan production.  Emergency Stocks  “Options markets are clearly projecting a larger
probability of a rise in oil from now out to December than was
the case at the end of June, when the IEA emergency stocks
release was expected to damp upward price pressures,” Christin Tuxen, a senior analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen who was
second in the Bloomberg rankings, said in a July 20 interview.  Open interest in December $120 calls, bets that prices will
rise above that level, was 14 percent higher than for $80 put
options, wagers that prices would fall. One options contract
covers 1,000 barrels of oil. The total of calls has outnumbered
puts in Nymex trading since June 2010.  “This is the best way to see what commodity funds are
doing,”  James Cordier , who manages more than $100 million at
OptionSellers.com in Tampa,  Florida , said in a July 22
interview. “When you see the volume and open interest change
from the $80 puts to the $120 calls, normally you see sentiment
in the futures market shift right after that, and we have
rallied dramatically.”  Two-Year High  Oil futures surged 37 percent from mid-February to a two-
year intraday high of $114.83 on May 2 following the rebellion
against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , revolts that overthrew
governments in Tunisia and Egypt, and protests in Syria, Yemen
and Bahrain. As concern deepened in April that  Greece ,  Spain  and
Portugal would default, open interest surged in $80 put options.
Futures tumbled 22 percent.  Slower U.S. growth,  Europe ’s debt crisis and Chinese
efforts to slow expansion and curb inflation may cause prices to
average less than $90 in the fourth quarter as Saudi Arabia
boosts production, according to analysts at Citi Global Markets
and Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Every 10 percent gain in oil prices will reduce global
economic growth by about 0.25 percentage point if sustained for
a year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Slowing Growth  The U.S., the world’s largest consumer, probably expanded
1.8 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace in a year,
according to the median forecast of 69 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Global gross domestic product will probably grow 4.3
percent in 2011, according to the IMF’s World Economic Outlook
released June 17, down from an April forecast of 4.4 percent.  “Oil demand growth seems to have returned to its
traditional relationship to global GDP growth, and the down
revisions to expected economic expansion seem to be resulting in
downward expectations of petroleum demand growth,”  Edward Morse 
and Aakash Doshi at Citi Global Markets in  New York  said in a
July 14 note to clients. They estimate Nymex crude will average
$82 in the fourth quarter.  China, which has been driving global fuel consumption, has
boosted lending rates five times since October as inflation rose
to a 6.4 percent annual rate in June.  $88 Target  Nymex futures will average $88 in the fourth quarter amid
the increase in Saudi Arabian output, Francisco Blanch at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in New York forecast last week. The
nation’s production jumped 0.8 percent in May, figures from the
Joint Organization Data Initiative showed this week.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest exporter, announced the
increase June 8 after failing to get other OPEC members to
endorse a plan to boost output. The kingdom produced 9.21
million barrels a day in June, the highest level since October
2008, according to Bloomberg estimates.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’
benchmark price, known as the OPEC basket, has traded above $100
a barrel since Feb. 21, its longest-ever run in triple digits.
The price is calculated on the basis of one crude grade from
each of the group’s 12 members.  Open interest in options contracts show aggregate calls
outnumbered puts by 1.81 million to 1.72 million as of July 20.
When the ratio increased in January, prices hit a two-year high.  Emergency Reserves  The IEA said July 21 that it won’t release more from
emergency reserves because OPEC will “substantially cover” the
loss of Libyan exports. OPEC output rose to 29.6 million barrels
a day last month, a 1.8 percent increase from May, the group
said July 12 in its monthly report. The 11 members bound by
quotas produced 26.9 million barrels, the most since 2008.  The IEA estimates consumption will be a record 91 million
barrels a day in 2012, driven by growth in  China ,  India  and the
 Middle East . Members will boost supplies if needed, it said.  Even after efforts to cool growth, China’s GDP rose 9.5
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics said July 13 in Beijing. Oil use in the
world’s fastest-growing consumer will jump 6.9 percent this year
and 4.9 percent in 2012, according to a forecast in the IEA’s
monthly Oil Market report on July 13.  “The indicators that we’ve had in the last few weeks from
China show that growth in those emerging Asian economies
continues to be stable and we don’t, at least in the near term,
see any big risks that are likely to evolve on the down side,”
said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne.  Westmore’s Forecast  Westmore’s fourth-quarter price forecast of $116 “lines up
reasonably well with where the options market is at the
moment,” he said. His forecast was the highest among the five
top analysts. He was fifth after Mirae’s Kwan, Danske Bank’s
Tuxen, Helen Henton at Standard Chartered Bank in  London  and
 Michael Wittner  at Societe General SA in New York. Henton had
the lowest forecast at $95 a barrel.  Global demand will exceed supplies in 2011 and 2012 because
of emerging markets, according to the July 12  Short-Term Energy
Outlook  by the U.S. Energy Department. The so-called stock draw
is forecast to begin in the third quarter of this year and
average 460,000 barrels in 2011 and 360,000 barrels in 2012.  “Anything close to a consensus fundamental forecast for
the second half of this year is still showing big stock draws,
even with the IEA release,” said Wittner, who forecasts prices
will average $101.30 in the fourth quarter. “The macro issues
may weigh on markets, but the bottom line is the fundamentals
are still constructive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 