-- 
Oil Falls in New York After U.S. Lawmakers Fail to Reach Debt Agreement

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-25T12:46:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/oil-falls-in-new-york-after-u-s-lawmakers-fail-to-reach-debt-agreement.html
Oil declined for the first time in
five days on concern a failure to reach a deal on raising the
U.S. debt limit may cause the nation to default, threatening the
economy of the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures dropped as much as 1.3 percent after House Speaker
 John Boehner  told Republicans that there’s no agreement on a
plan for increasing the ceiling before a default threatened for
Aug. 2. Standard & Poor’s has warned there is a 50 percent
chance it will lower the U.S. government’s AAA credit rating by
one or more levels.  Greece ’s long-term foreign currency debt was
cut three steps by Moody’s Investors Service today.  “Uncertainty about the U.S. budget is translating into
weaker commodity prices, including oil, today,” said
 Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in
 London . “But the supply-demand fundamentals in oil suggest
Brent crude will remain bound in a range of $115 to $120.”  Crude for September delivery fell as much as $1.30 to
$98.57 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $98.69 at 12:43 a.m. London time. The
contract advanced 2.7 percent last week, its fourth weekly gain.
Prices are 25 percent higher in the past year.  Brent for September settlement dropped as much as $1.75, or
1.5 percent, to $116.92 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. The European benchmark contract traded at a
premium of $18.14 a barrel to U.S. futures, compared with a
record close of $22.63 on July 14.  Financial Investors  Republicans prepared to force action on a shorter-term
extension of the limit than President  Barack Obama  has
requested, defying a veto threat. Obama would veto a measure
that doesn’t extend the limit into 2013, White House Chief of
Staff Bill Daley said in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” yesterday.  “For the financial investors, if the debt issue is not
really resolved, they may cut a portion of their risky assets,”
said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax Co. in
 Tokyo . “Crude oil is a kind of risky asset, so people may cut a
part of their portfolio.”  Any debt-limit increase must pass both the Republican-
controlled House and the Democratic-run Senate and be signed by
Obama. Democrats have resisted cuts to entitlement programs such
as Social Security and Medicare and called for higher taxes,
while Republicans have insisted a debt ceiling be accompanied by
corresponding spending cuts and no tax increases.  React Negatively  Daley warned “markets around the world” would react
negatively to a short-term measure offering less than $2.4
trillion in borrowing authority. A Republican congressional
official said Boehner, speaking by telephone to lawmakers, is
reporting that discussions are continuing.  Even if Congress raises the limit in time to avert a
default,  Standard & Poor’s  might lower the U.S. AAA sovereign
credit rating to AA+ with a negative outlook if a deal isn’t
accompanied by a “credible solution” on the debt burden, it
said in a report July 21.  “In the event of a U.S. default, the dollar should weaken
further and as a consequence  oil prices  should rally, at least
until a commonly agreed solution to the U.S. situation is
reached,” said John Sfakianakis, chief economist at Riyadh-
based Banque Saudi Fransi. “As of yet, oil prices have not yet
priced in a U.S. default outcome fully.”  Hedge funds  raised net-long positions in New York-traded
crude by 8 percent to 182,285 in the week ended July 19,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly
Commitments of Traders report.  Money managers raised bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 11
percent in the week ended July 19, according to data from ICE
Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 91,162
contracts, the London-based exchange said today in its weekly
Commitment of Traders report. Net-long positions rose by 9,377
contracts, from 81,785 a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  