-- 
Moody’s Says EU Liquidity Proposals Positive for Danish Lenders

-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r
-- 
2011-07-25T19:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/moody-s-says-eu-liquidity-proposals-positive-for-danish-lenders.html
Moody’s Investors Service said the
European Commission’s proposal to soften liquidity rules set by
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  is positive for
Danish lenders.  Denmark’s banks may be able to avoid a cap on mortgage-
backed covered debt holdings set by the Basel committee in
December after the EU on July 20 said it agreed to base
liquidity assessments on tests instead of an asset’s class.
Basel’s original proposals had assigned government debt a higher
liquidity status than non-government bonds.  “The proposal is credit positive for Danish financial
institutions, which hold large portfolios of covered bonds
because it eases the fulfillment of liquidity requirements in a
country where other top-tier assets such as sovereign bonds are
not plentiful,” Moody’s Vice President and Senior Credit
Officer Oscar Heemskerk said in the report. “At the same time,
covered bonds ensure that liquidity buffers consist of high
quality assets.”  Denmark  has been lobbying the EU to ease the Basel
committee’s liquidity rules in an effort to protect the world’s
third-largest covered-bond market. The country has argued that
the so-called Basel III standards, which require banks to limit
non-government bonds to 40 percent of their liquid assets and
book the debt at 85 percent of its market value, will penalize
nations with small government debt markets.  Trading in Denmark’s short-term covered bonds -- securities
backed by the  cash flow  from a pool of  mortgage loans  -- rose
during the financial crisis, both in the total value of bonds
traded and in the median size of individual trades, according to
a study published last year by the Danish central bank. It was
easier to trade short-term mortgage bonds than government notes,
the study found.  The Basel liquidity rules are due to come into force by
2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tasneem Brogger in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  