-- 
Top China IPO Arranger Guosen Challenges Goldman With Hong Kong Expansion

-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-07-25T00:20:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/top-china-ipo-underwriter-guosen-doubles-staff-at-hong-kong-arm.html
Guosen Securities Co., the top-
ranked arranger of initial public offerings in  China , has more
than doubled the workforce at its Hong Kong unit this year as
Chinese investment banks challenge  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  outside their home market.  Guosen Securities (HK) Financial Holdings Co. has about 200
employees, up from less than 100 at the end of last year, Chief
Executive Officer Lu Xiao Ning said in a July 20 interview. The
firm plans to add 500 square meters of  office space  to the 1,500
square meters it occupies at One Exchange Square and Li Po Chun
Chambers in central Hong Kong, he said.  The expansion comes as competition for arranging share
sales squeezes fees in Hong Kong, while rivals including  UBS AG (UBSN) 
have said rising banker compensation is eroding margins. Average
fees for IPO underwriting in Hong Kong this year fell to 2.2
percent of the funds raised from 3.5 percent in 2001, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Hiring isn’t easy but people are seeing the bright
prospects of Chinese companies,” said Lu. “There are many
Chinese companies looking to sell shares in Hong Kong or invest
outside China. These are massive opportunities that we’d like to
grab.”  Guosen Securities, based in Shenzhen and controlled by the
city’s government, has worked on 18.7 billion yuan ($2.9 billion)
of IPOs in China so far in 2011, more than any other bank,
Bloomberg data show. Fees for those deals averaged 4.6 percent
of funds raised, according to the data. The Hong Kong unit,
which got a license to underwrite share sales in April, hasn’t
managed any equity offerings in the city so far.  China Listing  Guosen Securities plans an initial public offering in China
as early as this year, Lu said. After the listing, the company
may consider selling shares in Hong Kong, he said. Guosen
Securities posted profit of 3.1 billion yuan in 2010 on revenue
of 7.8 billion yuan, according to  Guosen Securities’ website .  Guosen Securities hired Cheng Gang from  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) 
last year to head its Hong Kong investment banking, Lu said. The
executive said he expects his Hong Kong business to be
profitable this year, while declining to give a forecast for
hiring.  “We are working on a number of IPO deals and are in talks
with some companies about issuing dim sum bonds,” Lu said.
“Our parent company has 4 million clients in China and we can
offer services they need when they seek funding or invest
abroad.”  Guosen stands to benefit from its ties with companies in
China as it may bring them to Hong Kong for a listing, he said.
Dim sum bonds are yuan-denominated notes issued in Hong Kong.  ‘Pay What’s Needed’  Goldman Sachs, the biggest underwriter of IPOs in Hong Kong,
is among global investment banks cutting jobs as trading
revenues stagnate and stricter capital rules curb profitability.
At the same time, Chinese securities firms are vying to steal a
march on foreign rivals by advising local companies on stock
offers and acquisitions abroad.  Haitong International Securities Group Ltd. (665)  is increasing
its 75-person Hong Kong investment banking team by at least 50
percent this year, Chief Executive Officer Lin Yong said in an
April interview. Lin said he will “pay what’s needed” to hire
senior executives.  ICBC International Holdings Ltd., the securities unit of
the world’s largest bank by market value, has hired 10 managing
directors or executive directors from global rivals this year,
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Mary MacLeod, who joined the firm
from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in January, said in a telephone interview
on July 6.  Bad Debt Woes  Guosen Securities’ state ownership limits its ability to
lure bankers with big pay packages in Hong Kong, Lu said.  “That could create too wide a gap” with the company’s
domestic operations, he said. “Bankers are professionals so
they can judge whether we are the best platform for them to
progress.”  China’s first audit of local government debt found
liabilities of 10.7 trillion yuan at the end of last year, 79
percent of which were bank loans, the National Audit Office said
last month. As much as 30 percent of the local government
financing vehicles’ loans may fail and become the biggest
contributor to banks’ bad debts,  Standard & Poor’s  has said.  The National Development and Reform Commission suspended
approval for the sale of corporate bonds in Yunnan province
after Yunnan Investment Group Co.’s plans to restructure some
assets raised investor concern over its debt, the Caixin Century
magazine reported July 19.  Chinese local governments’ finances are “more solid than
people imagine” because the pace of urbanization is high enough
to ensure they can meet debt commitments, Lu said.  “China is a big country and it’s just one or two small
local governments that have encountered some problems,” he said.
“You have to look at the probability. If someone got killed
crossing the road, are you not going to cross it anymore?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  