-- 
Low-Rated Hospitals Selling as Changes in Health Funding Loom: Muni Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-07-25T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/low-rated-hospitals-selling-as-changes-in-health-funding-loom-muni-credit.html
Two non-profit hospital systems
rated BBB- or lower are among the largest sellers of municipal
debt this week as potential reductions in federal aid boost
their borrowing costs.  Community Memorial Health System will issue $345 million
through the city of San Buenaventura, California, and
MaineGeneral Health will sell $290 million via the  Maine  Health
and Higher Educational Facilities Authority.  Hospital bonds may be vulnerable to downgrades because of
potential reductions in U.S. reimbursements for Medicare, the
government health system for the elderly, and cuts to Medicaid,
the joint state and federal insurer of low-income patients,
 Standard & Poor’s  said last week. That’s contributing to the
highest relative borrowing costs since 2009 for hospitals with
low investment-grade ratings.  “There’s a change in Medicare coming,” said Tim Pynchon,
who specializes in high-yield bonds and oversees $3 billion in
municipals for Pioneer Investment Management Inc. in  Boston .
“It’s not enough to say it’s a BBB hospital and I’m investing
in it because it has yield.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold BBB rated 10-year
hospital bonds instead of top-rated general-obligation debt
widened to as much as 2.43 percentage points July 22 from 1.93
points Jan. 17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
spread reached 2.74 percentage points May 13, the widest since
October 2009.  Replacement Building  The Community Memorial Health System  revenue bonds will
finance a six-story replacement hospital in Ventura, as the city
is commonly known, to comply with  California  earthquake-safety
rules, according to offering statements. The securities are
rated Ba2, two levels below investment grade, by Moody’s
Investors Service.  MaineGeneral Health,  the third-largest health system in the
state, according to  Fitch Ratings , will use its revenue issue
for a 192-bed replacement hospital in Augusta, the capital. The
debt is rated BBB- by Fitch, its lowest investment grade.  Pynchon, who was born in the 59-year-old hospital being
replaced in Maine, wants to do more research before investing.
He said management must be “ahead of the curve” in adjusting
expenses for potential revenue reductions.  The quality of not-for-profit health-care bonds hinges on
legislation that will determine how much hospitals are
reimbursed for providing services through Medicare and Medicaid,
S&P said it its report.  Revenue Contraction  “We would expect revenues per unit of service to gradually
contract with a clear risk to ratings over the long term,”
wrote Steve Murphy, S&P’s managing director of U.S. public
finance.  MaineGeneral Health received about 47 percent of revenue
from Medicare and 16 percent from Medicaid in the nine months
ended March 31, Fitch said in a report.  The dependence on government revenue is “high,” which
makes the system “susceptible to state-level reimbursement
changes, presenting a credit concern,” Fitch analysts Emily
Wadhwani and Eva Thein said in the report.  With yields on top-rated debt near the year’s low of about
2.6 percent, investors seeking extra return are better off
buying bonds with lower credit ratings than those with longer
maturities, said Ben Pace, who helps oversee about $385 billion
as chief investment officer of Deutsche Bank Private Wealth
Management in  New York .  “It’s dangerous to stretch for yield by going longer
duration” because  interest rates  could rise, Pace said in a
presentation to reporters July 20. “It’s better to spread on
 credit quality .”  Following is a description of a pending sale of U.S.
municipal debt:  MARYLAND, one of five states Moody’s said could lose top
credit ratings if the U.S. is downgraded, leads this week’s
calendar with $718 million in general-obligation bonds for a
variety of projects. The bonds are rated AAA, the top investment
grade of S&P. M&T Securities Inc. will lead underwriters in the
sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  