-- 
Peru Borrowing Costs Fall to Three-Month Low After Appointments

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-07-25T21:58:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/peru-borrowing-costs-fall-to-three-month-low-after-appointments.html
Peru ’s benchmark borrowing costs in
dollars fell to a three-month low after President-elect Ollanta
Humala’s appointment of government and central bank officials
eased investors’ concerns about how he’ll manage the economy.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian  government
bonds  instead of U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 157 at 5:43 p.m. New York time, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Humala named Miguel Castilla, who served as outgoing
President  Alan Garcia ’s deputy finance minister, as his finance
minister July 21, and tapped central bank President Julio Velarde to remain in his post. The appointments are “very much
positive for Peruvian assets,” BNP Paribas said today in a note
to clients. Humala takes office July 28.  “The president’s message about his new cabinet, and above
all about Velarde and the  Finance Ministry , was good,” said
Ricardo Villamonte, the head trader at Banco de Credito del
Peru, the country’s largest bank. “Investors feel more at
ease.”  Peru’s benchmark borrowing costs in dollars rose to a 14-
month high of 2.31 percentage points above Treasuries on April
27 after Humala won the first round of balloting in the nation’s
presidential elections, leading investors to bet the former army
rebel would shun economic policies fueling the region’s fastest
growth.  The Peruvian sol was unchanged at 2.7365 per  U.S. dollar .  The central bank bought $12 million in the foreign exchange
market today and paid an average 2.7360, it said on its website.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 was little changed at 6.24 percent,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  