-- 
Petrobras Sees End to Debt in a Decade as New Discoveries Boost Cash Flow

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-07-26T14:34:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/petrobras-sees-no-need-for-new-debt-after-10-years-cfo-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil producer, said its plan to more than double
output will boost cash flow and eliminate the need to tap debt
markets after about 10 years.  The company’s profit from oil sales will be enough to cover
operating and debt costs starting in about a decade, Chief
Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said yesterday in an interview
at its Rio de Janeiro headquarters. Petrobras’s exit from the
 bond market  will increase the value of existing notes because
the amount of total debt will start declining, he said.  Petrobras, as the company is known, said July 22 it will
invest $224.7 billion through 2015, more than any major oil
producer in the world, as it develops the Western Hemisphere’s
largest discoveries in about three decades. As part of the plan,
the company said it will raise as much as $91 billion in debt
and $13.6 billion through asset sales and cost cuts.  “ Cash flow  will be enough to pay debt amortizations and
the investments we will have,” Barbassa said. “Few companies
in the world can say this.”  Petrobras’s business plan targets 19 percent more output in
2020, compared with the previous program, while spending remains
little changed. Petrobras will develop large deep-water
discoveries and tap oil reservoirs near existing facilities to
get more production from similar investments, Barbassa said.  Asset Sales  Petrobras acquired 5 billion barrels of deep-water reserves
from the government last year, and plans to produce 845,000
barrels a day from the fields in 2020.  “These are gigantic, highly productive fields,” he said.  Petrobras is wrapping up the sale of a 50 percent stake of
an offshore block in Tanzania for about $100 million, he said.
The company may consider selling stakes in exploration blocks
and refineries outside of  Brazil , Barbassa said.  “They are being reviewed along with the rest of our
assets,” said Barbassa, when asked if Petrobras will sell
stakes in foreign refineries. “It’s a combination of
Petrobras’s interests and those of the market.”  Petrobras is developing offshore oil discoveries in the
U.S. Gulf of  Mexico ,  Nigeria  and  Angola , and has refineries in
the U.S. and  Japan .  Petrobras won’t sell stakes in projects that produce oil
and have proved reserves, or areas in the so-called pre-salt
region of Brazil where the company has its largest discoveries,
he said. The company may sell some other assets in Brazil,
Barbassa said, without specifying possible divestitures.  Rising Production  Petrobras aims to increase daily output to 4 million
barrels of oil and equivalents by 2015 and to 6.4 million
barrels by 2020. Output averaged 2.64 million barrels a day in
June. Petrobras’s previous five-year plan called for 5.4 million
barrels a day in 2020.  The oil producer will raise as much as $12 billion a year
in net debt, excluding amortization costs. Total debt as a
percentage of equity will rise to as much as 35 percent by the
end of 2015, up from 17 percent at the end of the first quarter.  UBS AG analyst Lilyanna Yang yesterday upgraded Petrobras
to “buy” from “hold,” citing a “strong” decline in this
year’s stock price and lower-than-expected investments over the
next five years.  Petrobras gained 14 centavos, or 0.6 percent, to 23.64
reais in Sao Paulo trading as of 10:18 a.m. New York time, and
has declined 14 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent
drop for the benchmark Bovespa Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  