-- 
Petrobras to Raise Up to $91 Billion Over Next Five Years for Investment

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-07-25T18:36:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/petrobras-to-raise-as-much-as-91-billion-in-debt-for-spending.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s
state-controlled oil producer, said it will boost debt and sell
assets after approving a $224.7 billion investment plan.  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based company is known,
will raise as much as $91 billion in debt and sell as much as
$13.6 billion of assets as part of the spending program for 2011
through 2015, the company said after markets closed on July 22.  The crude producer is spending more than any other major
 oil company  to develop fields located deep beneath a layer of
salt under the ocean floor that are the Western Hemisphere’s
largest discoveries in about three decades. Petrobras said it’s
“fully committed” to keeping its investment-grade rating while
it boosts investments on exploration, production and refining.  “The plan was done with a mindset to keep Petrobras’s
overall debt levels in check,”  Gianna Bern , president of
Chicago-based Brookshire Advisory and Research and a former
director at Fitch Ratings Ltd., said in a telephone interview.
“They’ve come away with a budget that is manageable.”  Petrobras is increasing spending by $700 million compared
with the previous five-year plan through 2014, the smallest
increase in planned investments since at least 2006, according
to the company’s website.  The company didn’t give details on what assets may be sold.
Last year, it agreed to sell a refinery and gasoline stations in
 Argentina . An email sent to the company’s press office after
hours seeking comment wasn’t immediately returned.  Debt Rating  Petrobras will raise as much as $12 billion a year in net
debt, excluding amortization costs. Total debt as a percentage
of equity will increase to as much as 35 percent by the end of
2015, up from 17 percent at the end of the first quarter.  Petrobras rose 55 centavos, or 2.4 percent, to 23.52 reais
in  Sao Paulo  trading as of 2:11 p.m. New York time and declined
14 percent this year, compared with a 13 percent drop for the
benchmark Bovespa Index.  Yields on Petrobras bonds due 2021 rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 4.75 percent at 1:42 p.m. New York
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Some investors were expecting Petrobras to boost spending
to about $250 billion, Banco Bradesco SA analyst Auro Rozenbaum
wrote in a note to clients. The slowdown in spending growth and
focus on profitable exploration and production projects is
encouraging investors, Max Bueno, an analyst at Spinelli
Corretora SA, said today in a telephone interview.  ‘Well Received’  “The business plan was well received by the market due to
the reduction from previous values” that investors were
expecting, Bueno said from Sao Paulo. “The greater focus on
upstream and the delayed launch of new refineries is positive.”  The company is basing its estimated financing needs on an
average Brent oil price of at least $80 a barrel for 2012
through 2015. Petrobras expects prices to average $110 a barrel
this year, according to the statement. Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services affirmed the company’s BBB- corporate credit rating and
revised the company’s outlook to positive on May 23.  The company increased exploration and production spending
to 57 percent of the total, including $12.4 billion to develop
five billion barrels of reserves it acquired from the government
last year. The company trimmed spending on refineries, power
plants and petrochemical projects to help contain costs.  “Management has constructed a streamlined plan that should
provide the basis for higher returns on investment,” Bank of
America analyst Frank McGann wrote in a note to clients. “These
moves suggest a fundamental shift in the way spending is being
allocated and should be viewed as a major positive.”  Brazil  Operations  About 95 percent of the total funds will be used to develop
operations in Brazil. The company cut this year’s budget to 84.7
billion reais from 93 billion reais. Petrobras has tripled
annual investments over the past five years as it focuses on
discoveries in deep waters and expanding gasoline production.  “For the first time ever, we’ve seen Petrobras include in
its budget the potential revenues from planned asset sales,”
BTG Pactual analyst Gustavo Gattass wrote today in a note to
investors. “For a company that was seen as a buyer of anything
by many, it is a strong signal.”  Petrobras aims to increase output to 4 million barrels of
oil and equivalents a day by 2015, and to 6.4 million barrels a
day by 2020. Output in June was 2.64 million barrels a day.  “The complexities of these projects and normal project
delays will make the achievement of these targets difficult,”
McGann wrote. “It does highlight the extraordinary potential of
Petrobras’s resource base.”  Crude for September delivery fell 0.7 percent to close at
$99.20 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  