-- 
Poland’s Zloty Weakens Most in Week on U.S. Debt Deadlock; Forint Slides

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-07-25T14:43:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/poland-s-zloty-weakens-most-in-week-on-u-s-debt-deadlock-forint-slides.html
The zloty and the forint retreated
the most in a week against the euro after President  Barack Obama 
and Congress failed to reach a deal on raising the U.S.’s debt
limit, fueling concern the world’s largest economy may default.  The Polish currency slid as much as 0.8 percent, the most
since July 18, and traded 0.6 percent weaker at 4.0100 per euro
by 4:20 p.m. in Warsaw. Hungary’s forint slumped 0.4 percent to
269.51 per euro and lost 2.1 percent to the  Swiss franc .  Global stocks and oil prices fell while gold and the franc
rose to record highs as the debt-ceiling impasse threatened to
cause a U.S. default as early as Aug. 2 and jeopardize the
country’s AAA credit rating. Last week, the forint and zloty
strengthened after European leaders announced new aid for  Greece 
in a push to prevent the debt crisis from spreading.  “Having put Greece’s problems to the side for the time
being, markets are free to focus on the U.S. debt ceiling,”
emerging-market strategists at BNP Paribas SA led by Bartosz Pawlowski in  London  wrote in a report today. “Negotiations are
likely to bring us a lot of intraday volatility as investors are
now clearly concerned about the U.S. rating.”  Hungary’s benchmark BUX stock index retreated 0.7 percent
to 21,728.55, after earlier losing as much as 2 percent. OTP
Bank Nyrt., the country’s biggest lender, led the decline with a
1.1 percent drop.  Swiss Franc  The forint traded at 233.355 per franc, about 5 forint from
its all-time low of 238.455, reached a week ago, making it more
expensive to repay loans denominated in the Swiss currency. The
country’s economic growth may slow by as much as 0.5 percentage
point if the strength of the franc versus the forint persists,
 Mihaly Varga , chief of staff for Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ,
said in an interview with Gazdasagi Radio on July 22.  Sixty-three percent of Hungarian household mortgages were
denominated in foreign currencies as of April 30, and more than
100,000 mortgages were overdue, according to central bank data.  “Hungarians with debt denominated in the franc are still
heavily exposed to external risk factors and will remain under
pressure for the foreseeable future,” Tradition Analytics wrote
in a report to clients dated today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  