-- 
PulteGroup Options Bulls Highest Since 2002 as Traders See Gain on Profit

-- B y   A s h w i n   S e s h a g i r i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-25T20:33:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/pultegroup-options-bulls-highest-since-2002-see-rally-on-quarterly-report.html
Options traders are pushing bullish
bets on PulteGroup Inc. to the highest level in nine years,
speculating the biggest U.S. homebuilder will rally even as
analysts predict the 18th net loss in 19 quarters.  The ratio of outstanding calls to buy the shares versus
puts to sell almost doubled since April to 2-to-1 and reached
2.44 on July 15, the highest since 2002. More positions were
established in January $10 calls during the past month than any
other contract, sending open interest to the second-highest
among options on  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based Pulte. The
shares haven’t closed above $10 since June 2010 and fell 85
percent through last week from a record high in July 2005.  Investors are betting that Pulte’s size and focus on first-
time buyers and homeowners looking to upgrade will help it
rebound from the housing slump faster than competitors. That may
help reverse a 41 percent slide since the company bought Centex
Corp. in August 2009 in the industry’s largest-ever U.S. deal.  “Investors think the worst is over,” Michael G. Smith, an
analyst for JMP Securities LLC in  San Francisco , said in a
telephone interview. He has a “market perform” rating on the
shares. “They like it because it’s been hammered more than the
group in the last couple of years. It’s a cheap way to play the
housing recovery, whenever it comes.”  Trailing Other Builders  Pulte shares have trailed the S&P Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index since Nov. 19, 2008, tumbling 15 percent
through July 22 versus the measure’s 64 percent gain. After
rising 3.5 percent to $7.34 last week, Pulte is the second
worst-performing stock among 12 in the S&P homebuilder index
since it bought Dallas-based Centex.  Pulte shares dropped 5 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $7.29 at
4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading today.  Because Pulte hasn’t reported net income since 2006, it
doesn’t have a price-earnings ratio. It trades for 0.6 times
sales, compared with 1.4 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
1 for the homebuilder index. The company’s July 28 quarterly
report will show a loss of 4 cents a share, according to the
average of 17 analysts’ estimates tracked by Bloomberg.  Pulte’s Centex purchase made it the largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue in an industry experiencing flagging
demand from stricter lending practices, unemployment near a
three-decade high and a glut of distressed homes weighing down
values since the recession. Pulte has recorded writedowns on the
deal, most recently $655 million in costs for goodwill
impairment in the third quarter of 2010.  Pulte Calls  Open interest for calls to buy Pulte shares jumped 79
percent to 270,233 outstanding contracts from April 15 through
last week, while puts to sell rose 33 percent to 134,167
contracts. The shares sank 6.1 percent during the same period.  “They may be betting on a stabilization, but betting on a
rebound would be premature,”  Stephen Wood , the New York-based
chief market strategist for Russell Investments, which manages
about $161 billion, said in an interview. “The overbuilding was
significant so it’s going to take a long time to burn through
that. We’ve seen stabilization in  home prices  and housing starts
are up but that’s off of a very low base.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S.
cities remains near its eight-year low reached in March.
Construction of single-family houses increased 9.4 percent to a
453,000 rate in June from May, the biggest monthly gain in two
years, the Commerce Department said July 19.  New-Home Sales  The Commerce Department probably will say tomorrow that
new-home sales climbed in June to a 322,000 annual pace from
319,000 the prior month, according to the median estimate of 60
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. That’s still less than half the
average annual rate of 849,000 in the past 10 years.  “The key to any kind of industry recovery is really about
demand, not really about supply,”  Richard Dugas , chief
executive officer of Pulte, said at a Credit Suisse Group AG
homebuilding conference in June.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders improved in July from a
nine-month low as executives turned less pessimistic on the
outlook for sales, according to the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index. The index rose to 15 from
13 in June. Readings below 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor.  “It’s more of a directional bet on housing getting better,
and Pulte being the beneficiary of that,” Jay McCanless, an
analyst for Guggenheim Securities in Nashville,  Tennessee , said
in a telephone interview. “There’s still plenty of existing
homes for sales that provide price competition for builders.”  Analyst Ratings  McCanless is one of four analysts who recommend buying the
shares, according to data tracked by Bloomberg, while 15
recommend holding the shares and none say to sell. Analysts have
an average share-price forecast of $8.78, according to estimates
tracked by Bloomberg.  McCanless estimates that 65 percent to 70 percent of
Pulte’s revenue comes from the move-up market -- existing
homeowners looking to move into, often times, a larger house.
That market didn’t fluctuate as much with the tax credit for
first-time homebuyers that expired last year, and is more immune
to tighter mortgage-underwriting regulation, McCanless said.  Pulte is poised to benefit from demand for higher-end homes
through its Del Webb brand, Joshua Pollard, an analyst with
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York, wrote in a July 14 note.
Del Webb, a builder of “active-adult” communities targeted at
people 55 and older, accounted for about 28 percent of sales in
the first quarter, up from 22 percent a year earlier, Dugas said
on the company’s April 28 earnings conference call.  JMP’s Smith doesn’t share McCanless’s optimism.  ‘Working Through’  “I still think they’re working through the Centex merger.
Del Webb is doing well, and Pulte Homes is doing relatively
well, but the Centex assets were not particularly well-
located,” Smith said. “I just don’t think the Centex assets
are that great, and I don’t like what they paid for them.”  Pulte recorded $1.5 billion in goodwill in connection with
the Centex acquisition, the builder said in its quarterly report
in April. It has written down a majority of that, via impairment
charges, the company said. Writedowns occur when market-value
for property is less than what a company paid for it, according
to McCanless.  Leanne Wandoff, a spokeswoman for Pulte, declined to
comment on the options trading and how it relates to the
company’s financial results, citing the homebuilder’s quarterly
report this week.  The Timing  “It was the timing on it,” said McCanless, referring to
the acquisition occurring near the trough of the recession.
“There was the belief the tax credit would spur more sales than
it did.”  The federal tax credit for homebuyers, which required
contracts to be signed by the end of April 2010, pushed sales of
new houses that month to the highest level in more than a year.
They fell four months later to the lowest in data going back to
1963.  Pulte reported annual revenue of $4.57 billion in 2010, a
12 percent gain from the previous year.  “We’re not predicting that it gets better anytime soon,
but we are sizing our business and running our business assuming
that the current level of demand stays where it is,” Dugas said
in June.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook for Pulte on
April 21 to stable from positive while saying the builder’s
greater “size, scale and diversification” since Centex will be
a benefit when the industry begins to turn.  Open interest for the January $10 calls has surged more
than fourfold in the past three months to 59,768 outstanding
contracts through last week. That’s the second-largest open
interest out of any of the builder’s 404,400 outstanding
options, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a bet that in six months we’re going to have another
oscillation in sentiment” becoming more positive, Michael Widner, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said
in a telephone interview. “If you want to be leveraged to the
upside potential in housing, you’ll probably get the most bang
for your buck on Pulte.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ashwin Seshagiri in New York at 
 aseshagiri@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  