-- 
Rail Stocks Tumble in China, Hong Kong

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-25T05:33:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/rail-stocks-tumble-in-china-hong-kong.html
China’s railway companies tumbled in
Shanghai and  Hong Kong  trading on speculation a deadly bullet
train accident in the eastern part of the country will prompt
the government to slow construction and reduce investment.  CSR Corp., the largest train maker, slumped 9.4 percent to
6.01 yuan as of 1:22 p.m., set for the biggest decline since
August 2008. China CNR Corp., the second-largest, lost 9.4
percent to 5.89 yuan, its worst drop since listing in 2009.
China Railway Construction Corp., builder of more than half the
nation’s rail links since 1949, sank as much as 5.8 percent in
Hong Kong.  The Chinese government will slow railway investment as it
pays more attention to safety and travelers switch to other
transport, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. and
Barclays Plc. The high-speed train accident may damp demand for
property in cities along the new railway lines, said Credit
Suisse Group AG. China plans to spend 2.8 trillion yuan ($434.3
billion) on railways in the five years ending 2015.  “The high-speed rail concept involves a large number of
companies and if investment is cut, even the smallest parts
makers and steelmakers will get hurt,” said Tu Jun, a
strategist at  Shanghai  Securities Co.  The accident occurred on July 23 near the eastern city of
Wenzhou when a train lost power after reportedly being struck by
lightning and was rear-ended by a second train, the state-run
Xinhua News Agency said, citing the provincial emergency office.
The crash killed at least 43 people and injured more than 200,
according to Xinhua.  Rating Downgrade  “We expect travelers to gradually turn to alternative
transport, including expressways,” Patrick Xu and Jon Windham,
analysts at Barclays, wrote in today’s report. The accident is
also expected to deter development of high-speed railway lines
under construction or in planning across China, they wrote.  Shares of CSR and CNR were cut to “neutral” at Shenyin &
Wanguo, ranked  China ’s most influential research provider by New
Fortune magazine last year. The railway ministry will postpone
auctions for railway equipment, Huang Kui and Li Xiaoguang,
analysts at the Shanghai-based brokerage, wrote in a report.  “In the next three and six months, it’ll become the most
important job for the railway system to overhaul haphazard
safety and ensure the safe operations of trains,” the report
said.  Railway Networks  Three railway officials, including head of the Shanghai
Railway Bureau, were sacked after the collision and will be
investigated, Xinhua reported yesterday.  China plans to extend its high-speed railway networks to
120,000 kilometers from 91,000 kilometers by 2015 to accelerate
urbanization and bolster development in the nation’s
underdeveloped regions. Former railway minister Liu Zhijun was
fired in February and put under investigation over bribery
allegations.  China’s economy , the world’s second-largest, grew 9.5
percent in the second quarter, slowing from 9.7 percent in the
previous three months, as the central bank raised  interest rates 
and banks’ reserve-requirement ratio to stem inflation that
quickened to the fastest pace in three years in June.  The 221 billion-yuan Beijing-Shanghai bullet train line
began on June 30 and has suffered major delays from electrical
failures at least three times since.  Airlines Rally  Airline stocks rallied in Shanghai on speculation travelers
will shun high-speed rail.  Air China Ltd. (601111) , the nation’s largest
international carrier, gained 0.3 percent to 9.84 yuan. China
Southern Airlines Co., the biggest carrier by fleet size,
advanced 1.1 percent to 8.07 yuan.  “Airline stocks have already fully priced-in pessimistic
expectations,” Zhang Hongbo, an analyst at Citic Securities
Co., wrote in a note today. “They are expected to rebound
during the July-to-October peak season for air transportation.”  The train accident and “constant malfunctioning” of the
Beijing-Shanghai bullet train may damp demand for property along
rail lines, Credit Suisse said. Land sales in “several” cities
along the new Beijing-Shanghai high-speed railway line surged in
2009 and 2010, analysts including Jinsong Du at Credit Suisse
wrote in a report.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  