-- 
Rand Slips First Day in Five Versus Dollar as U.S Debt Stirs Risk Aversion

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-07-25T14:19:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/rand-slips-first-day-in-five-versus-dollar-as-u-s-debt-stirs-rick-aversion.html
The rand weakened against the
dollar, snapping a four-day advance, after talks on raising the
U.S. debt limit failed, boosting the chance of a default and
damping investor demand for riskier, emerging-market assets.  The rand depreciated as much as 1.1 percent, the most in a
week, to 6.8475 per dollar, and traded 0.2 percent down at
6.7863 as of 4 p.m. in Johannesburg. The currency of  Africa ’s
biggest economy dropped 0.2 percent to 9.7378 per euro.  Gold rose to a record as Republican lawmakers prepared to
force action on a shorter-term extension of the debt ceiling
than President  Barack Obama  has requested, spurring demand for
the metal as an investment haven and prompting investors to shed
riskier assets. The rand pared its decline as exporters
repatriated foreign earnings.  “The nightmare scenario of a self-generated U.S.
bankruptcy is not completely out of the picture,”  John Cairns 
and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, currency strategists at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in a research note. “The
nervousness is bad for all risky assets, including the rand.
Volatility will increase as long as a deal is not forthcoming.”  The one-month implied volatility of the rand versus the
dollar climbed for the first time in a week, adding 52 basis
points, or 0.52 percentage point, to 15.25 percent, indicating
currency options traders see wider price swings in coming weeks.  Strike Sentiment  Strikes by petroleum, chemical, engineering and packaging
workers and the government’s decision to appeal a ruling to
allow Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to buy a controlling stake in
 Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  added to negative investor sentiment,
said  Brigid Taylor , head of institutional flow sales at Nedbank
Capital.  “There are a lot of headwinds facing us in terms of
attracting long-term foreign inflows,” Taylor said by phone
from Johannesburg. “The Wal-Mart issue in particular is a big
negative for people who want to get involved in the South
African economy.”  Exporters took advantage of the rand’s decline to convert
their dollar earnings to local currency, paring the rand’s
depreciation, Taylor said.  Bonds declined for the first day in five, lifting 10-year
yields from the lowest levels in six weeks. The 6.75 percent
securities due 2021 slipped 11 cents to 89.81 rand, driving the
yield two basis points higher to 8.30 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  