-- 
Raw-Sugar Premium Rises as Much as 37% in Brazil, Broker Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-07-25T11:48:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/raw-sugar-premium-rises-as-much-as-37-in-brazil-broker-says.html
The premium buyers are prepared to
pay to obtain raw-sugar in August from top producer  Brazil 
climbed as much as 37 percent in four days, data from Swiss
Sugar Brokers showed.  Raw-sugar for loading in August at the port of Santos,
Brazil’s largest, is at a premium of 1 cent to 1.3 cents a pound
above the price for the October contract on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York, the brokerage said in a report dated yesterday. The
premium was 0.95 cent a pound on July 20, it said in a report
that day.  “The cash premiums keep holding firm and trading even
higher in some cases,”  Naim Beydoun , a broker at the Rolle,
Switzerland-based company wrote in a report e-mailed today.  Cash premiums are rising as some producers who sold to
trade houses buy back supplies as they try to ensure they have
sufficient stocks to fulfill contracts in the face of declining
crop estimates, and on short-covering by traders, Beydoun said.
Short-covering involves making purchases to close out bets on
lower prices.  Raw-sugar has climbed 21 percent in  New York  over the past
month on concerns that the crop in Brazil will be smaller than
initially estimated. Industry group Unica lowered its harvest
estimate to 533.5 million metric tons of cane on July 13, down
from a previous projection of 568.5 million tons.  Brazil is still overestimating how much cane it will reap,
according to brokerage ICAP do Brasil, which forecast the cane
harvest at 520 million tons. Sao Paulo-based consultancy
Canaplan also said the harvest would be about 520 million tons.  Crystal Sugar Premium  The premium for crystal sugar, which accounts for 68
percent of domestic sales in Brazil, is also climbing, Swiss
Sugar Brokers said, adding that supplies of white, or refined,
sugar were also limited from both Brazil and  Thailand , the
world’s second largest exporter.  “Regional refineries have their sales booked until the end
of September, some earmarked to European buying and others have
been allocated mainly to the Iraqi and Sudanese market,”
Beydoun said, adding that Indian white sugar was bought by
 Bangladesh ,  Sri Lanka  and countries in East Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  