-- 
Treasury Cuts Four-Week Bill Auction by 36% as Debt Limit Deadline Looms

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-07-25T19:24:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/treasury-cuts-four-week-bill-auction-by-36-as-debt-limit-deadline-looms.html
The Treasury reduced the amount of
four-week bills it plans to sell this week for the first time
since May to gain more flexibility as the deadline for raising
the nation’s debt limit approaches.  The U.S. will auction $18 billion in bills tomorrow, down
36 percent from the $28 billion sold each week since May 3. The
amount will be the smallest since April 2010. The U.S. also
plans to sell $12 billion of cash-management bills on July 27
that mature Aug. 2, the date Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
has said the U.S. will exhaust measures to avoid breaching its
$14.3 trillion debt threshold.  The Treasury reached its debt limit on May 16 and has been
taking extraordinary measures such as borrowing from pension
funds to finance the deficit and prevent a default.  Standard &
Poor’s  would cut the top AAA rating of the U.S. to D and Moody’s
Investors Service said it would likely reduce its credit ranking
from Aaa to the Aa range if the government fails to make a debt
payment.  “This is one of the Treasury’s last remaining tactics to
avoid breaching the debt ceiling,” Brian Smedley, a strategist
in New York at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York , said
in a telephone interview. “A cutback in net bill supply is not
surprising given how close we are to the debt ceiling
deadline.”  Rates on four-week bills fell 0.01 percent to 0.0355
percent at 3:23 p.m. in New York. Rates turned negative 0.01
percent on June 29.  `Enough Cash'  Four-week bills are intended to reduce the government’s
reliance on irregularly issued cash management bills and help
bridge its short-term borrowing needs. The federal government’s
receipts tend to be uneven as corporations and many individuals
make estimated income tax payments several times a year.  “The decline in bill sizes was not a surprise, and the
four-week bill size was actually $8 billion higher than what we
had expected,” said Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate
strategy in New York at Barclays Plc. “These sizes strengthen
our view that the Treasury will have enough cash to meet its
daily obligations through around Aug. 10, not Aug. 2 as is
widely believed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  