-- 
Refinancia Applies Charm to Debt Collection in Latin America

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-07-25T14:32:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/refinancia-s-applies-charm-to-debt-collection-in-latin-america.html
Since launching  Refinancia  in Bogota in 2005, Chief Executive
Officer Kenneth Mendiwelson has taken an unusual approach to recouping the
personal loans his debt-collection business buys from banks: amicable negotiations,
rather than harassing phone calls or visits. “We provide a dignified product to someone
who has been mistreated by the financial sector,” explains the 39-year-old Harvard
Business School graduate, who used a $4 million loan from friends and family to get
started. “Someone who falls into default is not a bad person.”  To determine what got individuals into financial trouble, Refinancia often starts with
face-to-face meetings. If the outstanding debt is due to an unexpected medical bill,
divorce, or another personal problem, Refinancia will refinance the loan and negotiate a
time frame for starting payments in installments. “Here in  Colombia  and around the
world, the people who are in debt with the banks become targeted with a black dot and
they’re treated very badly, even unrespectfully,” says Gaia de Dominicis, a managing
director in Bogota of Endeavor, a nonprofit that supports entrepreneurs in developing
nations, including Mendiwelson. “Once you’re closed to the bank, you’re closed to
everybody. You can’t have access to any type of credit, anywhere.”  Refinancia acquires loans at less than 10 percent of face value, packages them, and
promises returns of 15 percent to 35 percent to investors that buy them, according to
Mendiwelson. Roughly half of the individual loans are for about $500, twice the monthly
salary of a Colombian who earns minimum wage.  About 85 percent of Refinancia’s revenue comes from Colombia, where the market for
nonperforming loans is shrinking amid a strong economy; the government expects
growth of as much as 6 percent this year. At the end of April, the ratio of loan defaults to
the overall number of consumer loans was 3.5 percent, compared to 5 percent in April
2010, according to research firm Oxford Analytica. “It’s one of the markets in  Latin
America  where the banking sector outlook is most positive,” Oxford analyst Neil Pyper
says.  OPERATIONS IN  PERU ,  MEXICO   To keep his pipeline flowing, Mendiwelson is expanding into other countries. Refinancia
has 50 employees in Peru, where the company opened its first foreign office a year ago.
Today the country, with 30 million residents, accounts for 15 percent of Refinancia’s
revenue. In early July, Refinancia acquired 300,000 nonperforming loans from a major
European bank in Mexico and plans to open an office in Mexico City this year. The 510-
employee company manages a total of 800,000 loans, with a face value of nearly $2
billion, from about 15 banks in Latin America. Mendiwelson expects revenues of $12
million this year and $21 million in 2012. He estimates that by 2015, 60 percent of
revenue will come from debtors outside Colombia.  Refinancia was among the first in Colombia to buy defaulted loans by the tens of
thousands from banks trying to clean up their balance sheets following the 1999
financial crisis, in which the country’s gross domestic product contracted by more than 4
percent. The debacle threw more than one in five Colombians out of work, leaving
banks with billions in bad loans. While many companies entered the market, most were
too small to buy defaulted loans in large numbers. “The difference with Refinancia is
that they have the size and the funding,” says Leonardo Bravo, a partner with Bogota-
based investment banking firm Sustainable Finance Partners. Its numbers show that
Refinancia accounts for 31 percent of Colombia’s nonperforming loan market.  Refinancia’s tactics do not mean that more loans are recovered. As is typical for the
industry, between half and 60 percent of the loans managed by Refinancia are never
collected, according to Mendiwelson. He’s hoping that in 2013 Refinancia can cash in
on goodwill and turn one-time defaulters into borrowers. His argument is that even a
person who pays back a defaulted loan will find it difficult to escape a bad credit history
when seeking to borrow again. “No one is going to give him new credit, but I can
because Refinancia knows exactly how he thinks and how he has behaved in the past
with the refinancing product we provided to him,” Mendiwelson says.  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antonegonsalves@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  