-- 
Reliance Profit May Have Peaked as Ambani Struggles to Increase Gas Output

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-07-26T03:53:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/reliance-reports-highest-profit-in-more-than-3-years-as-refining-improves.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , India’s
biggest company by market value, may struggle to increase profit
after reporting its best quarter in more than three years as
natural gas production at the country’s largest field declines.  Net income in the fiscal first quarter ended June 30 rose
17 percent to 56.6 billion rupees ($1.3 billion), the highest
since the three months ended December 2007, boosted by gains
from processing crude oil into gasoline and diesel, the Mumbai-
based energy explorer and refiner said yesterday.  “Profit may have peaked, at least for the next three to
four quarters,” said Prashant Kamdar, an analyst with Guiness
Securities Ltd. in Kolkata. “Gas output will have to rise as
refining margins may remain at the current level or fall.”  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , is
tapping BP Plc’s expertise to boost gas output off India’s east
coast, after selling a stake in some fields to the London-based
company. Refinery expansions by nations including China and
India may cap margins in the next few years as capacity may
exceed demand, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “Investors will carefully watch how the partnership with
BP will work out,” said Deven Choksey, Mumbai-based managing
director of K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. “Everyone is
waiting for clarity and timelines on gas production.”  Reliance, which has the highest weighting in India’s
benchmark Sensitive Index, fell 0.1 percent to 881.65 rupees at
9:18 a.m. in Mumbai trading, valuing the company at about $65
billion. The stock has declined 17 percent this year compared
with a 7.7 percent drop in the index.  Drop in Pressure  Gas output from Reliance’s KG-D6 block declined 18 percent
from a year earlier to 156.2 billion cubic feet during the
quarter, the explorer said in the statement, without providing a
reason. Oil output from the area dropped 41 percent to 1.41
million barrels. The explorer produced 161.9 billion cubic feet
in the three months ended March 31.  Production from the KG-D6 block off  India ’s east coast fell
because of a drop in pressure and output may only increase in
2013, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said July 8.  BP agreed in February to pay $7.2 billion for a 30 percent
interest in 23 blocks operated by Reliance and to form a venture
to market gas. The deal size may increase to $20 billion with
future performance payments and investment. The partnership with
BP will accelerate development and production from Reliance’s
fields in India, Ambani said Feb. 22.  Pretax Earnings  India’s cabinet last week approved the deal for 21 blocks
and held back two as Reliance and the government have yet to
agree on work plans, Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said July 22.  Pretax earnings from refining surged 57 percent to 32
billion rupees, offsetting a 23 percent decline in profit from
oil and gas production to 14.7 billion rupees, the company said.
Earnings before tax from petrochemicals rose 7.9 percent to 22.2
billion rupees.  Reliance earned $10.3 on every barrel of crude oil it
turned into fuels in the quarter compared with $7.3 a barrel a
year earlier, the company said. The margin was the highest since
the three months ended Sept. 30, 2008, according to company
filings.  Reliance owns two adjacent refineries at Jamnagar in
Gujarat state, which together form the world’s biggest such
complex. The refineries can process a combined 1.24 million
barrels a day of crude into products including gasoline, diesel
and naphtha, which are exported to the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia .
The U.S. is the world’s biggest consumer of gasoline.  Heavy Grades  Reliance’s refineries can process heavy grades of crude,
which are cheaper than lighter varieties. A wider difference
between heavy and light grades of crude oil helps Reliance
increase its refining margins.  Crude oil in  New York  rose 31 percent to an average of
$102.34 a barrel in the three months ended June 30 from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Net sales rose 39 percent to a record 810.20 billion rupees,
according to the earnings statement.  The company had cash and equivalents of 457.8 billion
rupees as of June 30, Reliance said. Debt was 670.4 billion
rupees compared with about 674 billion rupees a year earlier.  Reliance, which has interests in retail chain stores and
chemicals, has bought stakes in a broadband provider, a cargo
airline and a hotel chain to diversify the risks of investing
primarily in the oil and gas business. The company also bought
shale gas assets in the U.S. from three companies last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  