-- 
Reid Offers Rival Debt Plan

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-26T00:29:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/republicans-push-dueling-plans-with-democrats-for-raising-u-s-debt-limit.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  and
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  attacked each other’s plans
for Congress to lift the U.S. $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and
avert default before an Aug. 2 deadline.  President  Barack Obama  plans to address the nation from the
White House at 9 p.m. Washington time on the partisan standoff,
with Boehner responding in a separate appearance.  Boehner’s two-step plan would raise the U.S. borrowing
limit by up to $1 trillion, with larger spending cuts, and
require a new vote on more reductions before an additional $1.6
trillion debt-limit increase next year. It could be voted on in
the House within two days. Obama and Senate Democrats oppose a
short-term extension, which could lead to another debt standoff
next year.  By contrast, Reid’s proposal would cut $2.7 trillion in
spending and give Obama the full $2.4 trillion in additional
borrowing authority he seeks, enough to get through the 2012
elections.  The high-stakes standoff is already starting to rattle
investors. Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said he hopes Republicans
“will still know a good deal when they see it.”  Asked whether his plan can get the 60 votes needed to
overcome a filibuster by opponents, Reid said, “I would hope
so.” In the House, some Republicans are balking at Boehner’s
plan.  $1.2 Trillion in Cuts  The 10-year plan introduced by Reid includes $1.2 trillion
in cuts to defense and non-defense discretionary spending --
programs whose budgets are set in Congress’s appropriations
process.  The plan would include $1 trillion in savings from winding
down the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. It would include $100
billion in mandatory program savings, including $30 billion in
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac changes, $40 billion in savings from
eliminating waste and fraud, $15 billion from spectrum auction
sales and telephone universal service changes and $10 billion to
$15 billion in cuts in agriculture subsidies.  Interest savings from cutting projected spending would
produce $400 billion. The proposal would create a bipartisan
committee of 12 members to recommend future savings, with a
guaranteed vote in Congress. The committee would produce
recommendations to be voted on by Congress this year.  ‘Responsible Compromise’  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  called Reid’s plan
“a responsible compromise.”  If Republicans “refuse this offer, it simply means they
want to default,” said Senator  Chuck Schumer , a New York
Democrat.  Boehner’s plan would require $1.2 trillion in spending cuts
in the first phase and up to $1.8 trillion in the second step. A
committee would be created to identify cuts, and Congress would
be required to vote by the end of this year on a constitutional
amendment requiring a balanced budget.  Reid called Boehner’s plan a “non-starter” because the
two-step process for approving debt-limit increases wouldn’t
give financial markets the assurances they need. Republicans are
more interested in “trying to embarrass the president” than
doing what is right for the country, Reid said.  Boehner met with House Republicans and told a news
conference afterward that Reid’s plan is “full of gimmicks.”  Under Boehner’s proposal, Congress could face a replay of
the debt-ceiling drama early next year. The measure would tie
the second installment of borrowing authority to enactment of a
deficit-cutting package to cut up to $1.8 trillion from the
deficit. If the debt-reduction plan stalled in Congress, Obama
would face another debt deadline in February or March.  Across-the-Board Cuts  The $1.2 trillion in spending cuts over the next decade
would be achieved through statutory caps on discretionary
spending. If the caps were exceeded, there would be across-the-
board cuts.  House Republican leaders sought to persuade their members
to pass what Boehner called a “less than perfect” plan.  “It does ensure that spending cuts will be greater than
the hikes in the debt limit,” Boehner said.  Representative  Tom Cole  of Oklahoma said fellow Republicans
should back Boehner’s plan to strengthen the speaker’s hand at
the negotiating table.  We would “be undercutting ourselves not to give him the
votes he needs to be effective in the negotiation,” Cole said.
The number of Republicans who would oppose any type of debt-
limit increase had shrunk “pretty dramatically” since earlier
this year, he said.  ‘Received Very Well’  Freshman Representative  Allen West , a Florida Republican,
said Boehner’s plan was “received very well” at a meeting with
lawmakers and that he planned to vote for it.  Some Republicans said the measure wouldn’t cut 2012
spending enough. Others said the debt limit should be raised
only if Congress passes a balanced-budget constitutional
amendment and sends it to the states for ratification.  “There is a significant number that have real problems
with this bill,” said Ohio Representative  Jim Jordan , chairman
of the fiscally conservative Republican Study Committee.  “I want a solution, not a deal,” said Utah Republican
 Jason Chaffetz . “I am as ‘no’ can you can possibly be” without
congressional passage of a balanced-budget amendment.  Texas Republican  Mike Conaway  said he would push for a vote
on a balanced-budget amendment later this week.  Gang of Six  Democratic Senator  Mark Warner , who helped write a
bipartisan “Gang of Six” $3.7 trillion deficit-cutting plan,
said he is concerned Boehner’s plan falls short and won’t
satisfy credit rating agencies, such as Standard & Poor’s.  Warner of Virginia said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television that Standard & Poor’s said “if we simply kind of
lurch along with these short-term debt extensions, that could
lead to a downgrade.”  Senator  Jon Kyl  of Arizona, the No. 2 Republican leader,
said leaders in both parties recognize it isn’t ideal for both
chambers to move rival bills that may not have enough support to
pass.  “If we can reach an agreement before there is a vote, that
would be a good thing,” Kyl said after a meeting of Senate
Republicans. “I don’t know that we can. But then again, both
proposals might be modified a little bit or you could get
bipartisan agreement.”  U.S. stocks fell. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6
percent to 1,337.43 at 4 p.m. in New York, after losing as much
as 1 percent.  Treasury Yields  Treasury two-week yields reached a two-week high after
 Mohamed A. El-Erian , whose Pacific Investment Management Co.
runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said the U.S. may lose its
AAA debt rating even if lawmakers reach a plan to avoid a
default.  The cost of insuring U.S. debt rose, sending credit-default
swaps on Treasuries up three basis points to 56.15, approaching
the highest in 17 months, according to CMA Analytics.  Two-year Treasury yields increased two basis points to 0.42
percent and 10-year yields added four points to 3.01 percent. It
is still below the 10-year average of 4.06 percent.  El-Erian said in an interview today on Bloomberg Television
that it will be a “big, big mess” if the U.S. defaults,
spurring a sell-off in equities, the U.S. dollar and commodities
excluding gold. El-Erian is the Newport Beach, California-based
chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer at
Pimco.  ‘No Other Country’  “Remember there is no other country that can step in to
replace the U.S.,” he said. “The U.S. is the supplier of the
reserve currency. The U.S. is the provider of a financial system
that intermediates other people’s savings and investments. The
U.S. is a AAA. The question is whether the U.S. can maintain a
AAA.”  This year’s vote would be the 101st time since 1940 that
the debt limit has been changed. Congress last raised the
federal debt limit by $1.9 trillion in February 2010. The then
Democratic-controlled House approved the increase by a vote of
233-187. The Democratic-run Senate approved the increase in
January 2010 by a vote of 60-39.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  