-- 
RIM to Cut 2,000 Jobs as BlackBerry Loses Share to IPhone

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-07-25T14:28:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/research-in-motion-to-cut-10-of-jobs-as-blackberry-loses-share-to-iphone.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, plans to cut 2,000 jobs, or about a
tenth of its workforce, as sales slow amid market share losses
to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.  The reductions, across all functions, are part of a plan to
“focus on areas that offer the highest growth opportunities,”
RIM said today in a statement. The job cuts will leave the
Waterloo, Ontario-based company with about 17,000 employees.  RIM predicted last month that sales this quarter may drop
for the first time in nine years. The company is losing market
share in the U.S. to the iPhone and handsets running  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, in part because it hasn’t introduced a
major new BlackBerry model since August. Cheaper Google phones
are also making inroads in  Latin America ,  Asia  and  Europe ,
threatening the popularity of less expensive BlackBerry models
like the Curve.  Today’s announcement “takes care of the expenses and they
still need to focus on the revenue side,” said Alkesh Shah, an
analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York . “They need to
find a way to make consumers get excited about RIM products. At
this point they haven’t gotten there.”  RIM fell 85 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $27.06 at 10:26 a.m.
New York time in  Nasdaq Stock Market trading . The stock had
dropped 52 percent this year before today.  Investor Scrutiny  While RIM had said on June 16 it would cut jobs, the figure
of 2,000 “is more significant that previously suggested” by
co-CEO  Jim Balsillie , said  Mike Abramsky , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Toronto, who rates RIM “sector perform.”  When asked about the restructuring plan by one analyst on a
June 16 conference call, Balsillie had said: “I would not call
it a restructuring and I think that’s just radically
mischaracterizing it.”  The company said today any charges associated with the job
cuts including severance packages aren’t included in its
forecasts for the current quarter and fiscal year. RIM will give
details on the financial implications of the job cuts when it
reports fiscal second-quarter results Sept. 15.  RIM, whose management structure has come under increasing
scrutiny from investors, also said it reassigned some senior
managers’ responsibilities and titles.  ‘Margin Pressure’  Chief Operating Officer Don Morrison, currently on medical
leave, plans to retire and Jim Rowan has taken on the expanded
role of COO for operations, RIM said today. The company named
Thorsten Heins to the enlarged position of COO for product and
sales, overseeing product engineering, hardware and software.  The promotion of Heins, a former Siemens AG manager who
joined RIM in 2007, and a move to bring hardware and software
under the leadership of one executive should accelerate product
development, said Shah, who has an “equal weight” rating on RIM.  “Thorsten, with his Siemens background, is known as
somebody who is exceptionally operationally efficient,” Shah
said. “That’s a positive for the upcoming margin pressure that
is likely.”  RIM also appointed  Patrick Spence  as managing director of
global sales and regional marketing. Chief Information Officer
Robin Bienfait will also oversee the enterprise business.  Investors including Northwest & Ethical Investments LP have
pushed for broader changes at the top of the company. Northwest
& Ethical last month made a proposal to split the roles of
chairman and CEO to increase board oversight over co-CEOs
Balsillie and  Mike Lazaridis , who also share the chairman’s
role.  It withdrew the proposal after RIM tried to make the case
the chairman title helps the co-CEOs generate business,
particularly overseas. RIM also agreed to form a committee to
study its leadership and examine the importance of the chairman
post.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  