-- 
Ringgit Drops on U.S. Debt Impasse, China Slowdown; Bonds Fall

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-07-25T09:15:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/ringgit-drops-on-u-s-debt-impasse-china-manufacturing-forecast.html
Malaysia’s ringgit dropped as U.S.
lawmakers struggled to agree how to tackle the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt, stoking concern a default will roil global
financial markets.  The currency retreated from a 12-week high as Republicans
and Democrats pushed competing plans before an Aug. 2 deadline.
Asian stocks slid by the most in almost two weeks ahead of a
report next week that economists forecast will show the first
easing in Chinese manufacturing in a year. Malaysian  government
bonds  dropped after consumer prices rose to a two-year high in
June.  “There’s a lot of haggling and feet-dragging on the U.S.
debt issue and uncertainty will prevail for a while,” said D.
Sivadass, a foreign-exchange forwards trader at Hong Leong Bank
Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “With stocks mostly down, risk appetite
will be affected.”  The ringgit weakened 0.1 percent to 2.9730 per dollar as of
4:23 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency climbed 1.2 percent last week and
touched 2.9715 on July 22, the strongest level since May 3.  Manufacturing in  China ,  Asia ’s biggest economy, contracted
in July from June, according to a preliminary Purchasing
Managers’ Index published by HSBC Holdings Plc on July 21. The
government and HSBC will release their final readings on Aug. 1.  China bought 12.7 percent of Malaysian goods in the first
five months of this year, overtaking Singapore as the single-
largest export market, according to data published by the trade
ministry in  Kuala Lumpur .  Bonds Decline  Benchmark three-year Malaysian debt declined, extending a
two-week slide. The yield on the 3.434 percent bond due August
2014 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.28
percent, according to Bursa Malaysia.  Consumer prices rose 3.5 percent in June from a year
earlier, the biggest increase since March 2009, the government
said on July 20. Bank Negara Malaysia’s priority is to tackle
inflation, Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz told reporters in Kuala
Lumpur today.  The government will auction 4 billion ringgit ($1.3
billion) of April 2021 Islamic bonds on July 28, according to
its sale calendar. It will also offer the same notes in a direct
sale to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 