-- 
Rio Tinto’s Pilbara Workplace Agreement Invalidated by Australian Court

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-07-25T02:53:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/rio-tinto-s-workplace-agreement-at-pilbara-invalidated-by-court.html
An Australian appeals court panel
invalidated  Rio Tinto  Ltd.’s non-union contracts with employees
at its Pilbara  iron ore  mine, overturning a lower court’s
decision.  The non-union agreement violated  Australia ’s federal work
law because it was not an “employee collective agreement” as
defined by the legislation, a three-member appeal panel said in
a 20-page decision today.  The Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union sued
Rio Tinto in 2009 after the world’s second-biggest mining
company started signing collective work agreements directly with
employees after July 28, 2008. Rio Tinto employed 2,793 people
at the Pilbara site in  Western Australia , according to court
documents submitted in federal court last year.  The appeals court set aside Federal Court Justice Robert
Buchanan’s Aug. 5 ruling that the non-union agreements were
valid. David Luff and Karen Holbart, spokespeople at Rio Tinto,
didn’t immediately respond today to requests for comment left on
their work voice mails.  Rio Tinto believes that the union’s lawsuit was meant to
destabilize the company’s business,  Sam Walsh , Rio’s chief
executive of iron ore and Australia said in an internal memo
after Buchanan’s ruling, according to an August 2010  story  in
the Australian newspaper.  The union wanted the agreements declared invalid so it
could launch industrial action, Walsh wrote in the memo,
according to the Australian.  The mine has a turnover of about 20 percent each year,
meaning that under Rio Tinto’s hiring policy, most employees
would eventually be non-union, Alex Bukarica, the union’s
national legal officer, said today in a phone interview.  Bukarica denied the union was trying to destabilize the
business, saying it reached a contract agreement covering
railway workers at Pilbara without a strike.  “That agreement is being voted on as we speak,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  