-- 
Royal Bank, TD Have Characteristics of ‘Important’ Banks, Moody’s Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-25T17:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/royal-bank-td-have-characteristics-of-important-banks-moody-s-says.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Toronto-
Dominion Bank, the two largest Canadian lenders, have traits
that may make them “systemically important” because of their
large capital markets businesses, according to Moody’s Investors
Service.  Moody’s included Royal Bank, the largest Canadian lender,
and Toronto-Dominion, the No. 2 bank, on a list of 28 “global
systemically important banks” based on three criteria,
according to a report today. Royal Bank ranks 22nd and Toronto-
Dominion ranks 27th on the list, which includes banks with
“significant” capital markets investments.  “We selected these 28 banks on the basis of their capital
market activities,” said Carlos Suarez Duarte, assistant vice
president and analyst for Moody’s, said in a telephone
interview. ““We are not suggesting these are the banks that
are included in the Basel Committee list.”  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  disclosed July
19 how authorities will apply levies for the world’s most
systemically important banks, guiding investors in calculating
extra funds that the lenders must raise.  Canada’s banks, ranked the soundest in the world by the
World Economic Forum, aren’t on a list of 28 lenders that could
face capital surcharges if too-big-to-fail rules were applied
today, Canada’s Office of the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions said July 19.  “TD Bank Group does not expect to be a global SIFI and
it’s clear that today’s Moody’s report does not suggest anything
to the contrary,”  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  spokesman Mohammed Nakhooda said today in a statement. “It is also important to
note that more than 80 percent of our earnings mix comes from
our retail business.”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA top the Moody’s list.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  