-- 
Russia RTS Futures Fall as U.S. Lawmakers Debate Debt Ceiling

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-07-25T20:38:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/russia-rts-futures-fall-as-u-s-lawmakers-debate-debt-ceiling.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
fell as U.S. Republicans and Democrats presented competing plans
to address the country’s $14.3 trillion debt before an Aug. 2
default deadline.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September declined 0.1 percent yesterday. Contracts on OAO
Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, fell 0.2 percent and
those on OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, were
little changed. Futures on OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas
producer, retreated 0.3 percent.  A plan proposed by  John Boehner , the Republican leader in
the House of Representatives, would raise the U.S. borrowing
limit by $1 trillion, and later by about $1.6 trillion, while
requiring larger spending cuts than a Democratic proposal.
Democratic Senator  Harry Reid ’s plan would hand President Barack
Obama the full $2.4 trillion in additional borrowing authority
he seeks -- enough to last through the 2012 elections -- tied to
$2.7 trillion in spending cuts that would leave Medicare and
Medicaid untouched.  Even with a debt deal by the deadline, the rating agencies
are still more likely to downgrade U.S. sovereign debt,’’ Chris Weafer, chief strategist at ING Groep NV in Moscow, said in an
e-mailed report. A cut to the credit rating “shouldn’t cause
too much of a knee-jerk reaction, albeit it will generate
screaming headlines and will have implications for asset
allocation in some big funds.”  Crude for September delivery declined 0.7 percent to settle
at $99.20 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange   The euro gained against the dollar, rising 0.1 percent to
1.4375 in New York. Some investors buy dollar-denominated assets
to protect value when the dollar weakens against the euro and
sell them when the dollar gains.  U.S. stocks fell as the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
declined 0.7 percent. The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 0.1
percent to 1,726.93 in Moscow yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  