-- 
Ryanair Fuel Costs Erode Passenger Gain

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-07-25T07:37:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/ryanair-fuel-costs-erode-passenger-gain.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest discount airline, said first-quarter earnings were
little changed after higher fuel costs eroded gains from rising
passenger numbers.  Net income for the three months ended June 30 was 139.3
million euros ($200 million) compared with 138.5 million euros a
year earlier, Ryanair said today. Profit missed the 156.8
million-euro estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Disruptions from the May eruption of an Icelandic volcano
were less severe than that after a similar event in April 2010,
when Dublin-based Ryanair was forced to cancel almost 10,000
flights, the carrier said. The quarterly passenger count rose 18
percent to 21.3 million, according to the statement.  “In the teeth of a very tough recession and fuel bills
going up by that much so quickly, it’s a reflection that the
model is strong,” said  Joe Gill , an analyst at Bloxham
Securities in Dublin who has an “overweight” recommendation on
Ryanair’s stock. “Ryanair and EasyJet are the two leaders of
the pack at the moment.”  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-largest low-cost carrier,
surged almost 18 percent on July 22 after saying pretax profit
for the year ending Sept. 31 will be as high as 230 million
pounds ($375 million), beating analyst estimates.  Shares Drop  Ryanair fell as much as 8 cents, or 2.3 percent, to 3.38
euros and was trading down 1.8 percent as of 8:24 a.m. in
Dublin, extending the drop this year to 9.8 percent and valuing
the company at 5.1 billion euros.  Fuel costs climbed 49 percent in the quarter to 427 million
euros, while total unit costs rose by 14 percent, Ryanair said.  The carrier took advantage of a dip in the oil price to add
to its fuel hedging position, covering 20 percent of its
requirements for the first quarter of its fiscal year ending
2013 at an average price of about $103 a barrel. The carrier has
already hedged 90 percent of the current year’s fuel needs at
about $86 a barrel.  “Our fuel costs have risen by almost fifty percent,”
Chief Financial Officer Howard Millar said in an interview.  Ryanair said it was keeping its guidance for net income for
the full-year unchanged at 400 million euros.  The airline will cut year-to-year capacity for the first
time in its history for the winter season starting in October as
fuel costs threaten to render dozens of routes unprofitable,
Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said May 23.  Pilot, cabin crew and engineering posts may be cut and
passenger growth will be limited to about 4 percent, half last
year’s pace, he said at the time.  Business Focus  Ryanair has transformed the European  airline industry  since
O’Leary took over in 1990 after studying the growth of Southwest
Airlines Co. in the U.S., offering flights between cities never
previously served by air and luring passengers from established
carriers with bargain-basement fares and a no-frills service.  More recently, the CEO signaled plans to attract higher-
paying flyers after exhausting opportunities to lift sales by
charging for everything from checked bags to credit-card
bookings. Luton, England-based EasyJet boosted the number of
corporate travelers by 20 percent in the June quarter after CEO
Carolyn McCall began offering flexible fares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  