-- 
Samsung, Rovio, Apple, Stephens Media: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-25T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/samsung-electronics-rovio-apple-stephens-media-intellectual-property.html
A U.S. trade agency said it will
consider  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) ’s patent-infringement claims against
Samsung Electronics Co. over liquid-crystal displays used in
televisions, computer monitors and mobile phones.  The U.S. International Trade Commission has the power to
block imports of Samsung LCDs if the products are found to
infringe any of the six AU patents in the case. Notice of the
investigation was posted on the Washington-based agency’s
website July 21.  AU,  Taiwan ’s second-biggest maker of LCDs, is seeking to
block products including Samsung’s 46-inch (117-centimeter) LCD
television, Captivate smartphone and 10.1-inch laptop screen.
The complaint also names companies that use or sell those
products, including  AT&T Inc. (T) , Best Buy Co. and BrandsMart USA
Inc.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung, the world’s biggest maker
of TVs and flat-screen panels, has its own case against Hsinchu,
Taiwan-based AU Optronics over LCD monitors that is being
reviewed by the ITC. The semi-judicial agency typically
completes its investigations in 15 to 18 months.  The companies also have filed civil lawsuits against each
other, seeking cash compensation. The ITC doesn’t have the
authority to order monetary damages.  The AU case is In the Matter of Certain Flat Panel Display
Devices and Products Containing the Same, 337-793, and the
Samsung case against AU is In the Matter of Liquid Crystal
Display Devices, 337-782, both U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  Rovio, Maker of ‘Angry Birds,’ Added to Lodsys Patent Suit  Rovio Mobile Oy , the maker of the hit mobile-phone game
“Angry Birds,” was added to a patent infringement suit by a
Texas-based patent-licensing company.  Lodsys LLC, which filed a patent infringement suit against
seven developers of applications for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone May 31,
has added Rovio to the list of defendants in the case.  In its July 21 filing, Lodsys claims Rovio has infringed
patents 7,620,565 and 7,222,078 B2  Atari SA (ATA) ,  Electronic Arts
Inc. (ERTS) , Rovio Mobile Ltd., Square Enix Holdings Co., and Take-Two
Interactive Software Inc. are the other new defendants.  Shortly before the initial complaint was filed Apple sent a
letter warning the company to leave the developers alone. In the
May 23 letter, Apple General Counsel Bruce Sewell said Apple has
a license to the Lodsys patents and, by extension, its
application developers were covered as well.  In its letter, Cupertino, California-based Apple claimed
that Lodsys was trying to get paid twice for the same use of its
patents, and asked Lodsys to “immediately withdraw all notice
letters” sent to third-party developers.  “Because Apple is licensed under Lodsys’ patents to offer
such technology to its App Makers, the App Makers are entitled
to use this technology free from any infringement claims by
Lodsys,” Sewell wrote.  Apple filed a motion to intervene in the case June 9. The
company said its ability to represent its interests would be
impaired if it were barred from intervening. The court has not
yet ruled on that motion.  The case is Lodsys LLC v. Combay Inc., 11cv272, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Texas  (Marshall).  Cypress Case Targeting Routers With GSI Chips to Get ITC Review  Cypress Semiconductor Corp. (CY) ’s patent claims against  GSI
Technology Inc. (GSIT)  will be reviewed by the U.S. International Trade
Commission, in a case that seeks to block imports of routers and
switches made by companies including Alcatel-Lucent SA and
Motorola Solutions Inc.  Cypress claimed in a June filing that static random-access
memory chips produced by GSI infringe four patents, and it
sought to prevent the products, as well as devices containing
the chips, from being sold in the U.S. The ITC, a Washington-
based arbiter of trade disputes, said in a notice July 22 it
would investigate, a process that typically takes 15 to 18
months.  The dispute over technology used to store instructions or
data targets at least 12 companies including GSI, Alcatel,
Motorola, Cisco Systems Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Nokia
Oyj’s and Siemens AG’s phone-equipment venture.  Arrow
Electronics Inc. (ARW) , which distributes GSI circuits, was also named
by Cypress, a  San Jose , California-based maker of chips used in
mobile devices.  Cypress also filed a lawsuit against Sunnyvale, California-
based GSI in March, alleging infringement of five patents.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Static Random Access
Memories and Products Containing Same, 337-792, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  The civil suit is Cypress Semiconductor Corp. v. GSI
Technology Inc., 11cv789, U.S. District Court, District of
Minnesota (Minneapolis).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Changes to U.K. Trademark Law to Be Considered by Law Commission  The Law Commission, an independent body established in 1965
to review U.K. laws and make recommendations for reform, will
consider some changes to trademark law designed to protect those
who receive “unjustified threats of  intellectual property 
litigation,” according to the group’s  program of reform , which
was printed by the House of Commons July 19.  The commission will look at whether to repeal, reform or
extend four provisions of IP law that impose liability to pay
damages on the makers of an unjustified threat of certain types
of IP litigation.  This would include sections of the Registered Designs Act
1949, a section of the Copyright Designs and Patents Act 1988, a
section of the Trademarks Act 1944, and a part of the Community
Trademark Regulations 1996.  Additionally the commission will look at how well the
reforms made in 2004 to the threat provisions in the Patents Act
1977 are operating in practice.  This project will begin in April 2012 and end in 2014,
according to the program. The commission will work with the
U.K.’s Intellectual Property Office in developing possible
reforms.  Kunming Starts Inspection of All Electronics Stores, Xinhua Says  Kunming, the southwestern Chinese city where three
unauthorized Apple Stores were discovered, started inspecting
all local electronics shops, Xinhua News Agency said, citing an
unidentified worker at the municipal industrial and commercial
department.  Inspectors will look at business licenses, permits
authorizing brand use and purchasing channels, the official news
service reported.  Scoopon, Groupon Settle Australian Trademark Dispute  Scoopon , the Australian company sued for trademark
infringement by Chicago-based Groupon Inc., has settled its
dispute, the Australian edition of ZDNet  reported .  Although financial terms of the settlement weren’t
disclosed, ZDNet reported that Scoupon’s owners rejected an
offer to buy their company name for $286,000.  Groupon will have the right to use its name and its
group.con.au domain name, according to ZDNet.  The Chicago company has been operating in  Australia  as
Stardeals during the dispute and will change the name back to
Groupon at an undetermined date, ZDNet reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Potential Amicus Asks to Participate in Stephens Media Suit  Stephens Media Group’s series of copyright-infringement
cases have found a new opponent, according to court filings.  Citizens Against Litigation Abuse Inc., a  South Carolina 
nonprofit public interest group has asked for permission to file
a friend-of-the-court brief in a case related to a blog posting
of a photo from the Denver Post.  The suit, filed by Righthaven LLC, is one of the more than
250 copyright-infringement cases the Las Vegas-based company has
filed since March 2010.  The public interest group noted in a court filing that many
of the defendants in these cases are politically oriented,
including the Democratic Party of  Nevada , the Democratic
Underground, Free Republic LLC, Americans for Democratic Action
Inc., the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana
Laws, America’s Independent Party of  Iowa , and Americans for
Immigration Reform.  These cases “directly implicate freedom of speech and have
an obvious chilling effect on core political speech on the
Internet,” the group said in its court filing.  The group is represented by Todd Kincannon of the Kincannon
Firm of Columbia, South Carolina.  In its proposed friend-of-the-court brief, the group argued
that Righthaven isn’t a legitimate plaintiff in the case; it is
a “ law firm  in disguise.”  In the real world, the arrangement
between Stephens Media and Righthaven “is called a ‘contingency
fee representation agreement,’” according to the brief.  The agreement between Righthaven and Stephens Media, which
has already been questioned by a federal judge in Nevada, “is
nothing but corporate doublespeak, deployed in an attempt to
camouflage an arrangement that is totally impermissible outside
the context of a lawyer-client relationship,” the organization
said in its brief.  The group quotes a blog posting made by Sherman Frederick,
the former chief executive officer of Stephens Media. In that
posting, Frederick made reference to the unsuccessful campaign
of Sharon Angle for the  U.S. Senate . He said “I even sued her
for lifting our material.”  The brief argues that this statement by Frederick shows
that “the Righthaven-client relationship is a sham.”  The court hasn’t yet ruled on the group’s motion.  The case is Righthaven LLC v. Wolf, 1:11-cv-00830-JLK, U.S.
District Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 