-- 
Singapore Inflation Accelerates to Fastest Since January on Food, Housing

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 
2011-07-25T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/singapore-inflation-quickens-to-fastest-pace-since-january-on-food-prices.html
Singapore ’s inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace since January as food and housing costs
increased, sustaining pressure on the central bank to allow the
currency to appreciate and contain price gains.  The  consumer price index  rose 5.2 percent last month from a
year earlier, the Department of Statistics said in a statement
today. That matched the median estimate of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Inflation was 4.5 percent in May,
according to previously reported data.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore raised its inflation
forecast for 2011 last week, citing higher home rental and
transportation costs. The island’s currency has appreciated to
unprecedented levels since the central bank said in April it
would allow further appreciation to tame price gains, the third
monetary tightening in a year.  “We do see some upside risks for inflation,” Pay Shuzhen,
a Singapore-based economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., said before the report. “Food inflation seems to be
creeping back. A tight labor market, which gives rise to rising
wages, will also cause demand-pull pressures to increase.”  Singapore’s consumer prices may climb 4 percent to 5
percent this year, higher than a previous forecast of 3 percent
to 4 percent, central bank Managing Director Ravi Menon said
July 21. Singapore, which uses the  exchange rate  as its main
tool to manage inflation, said in April it will re-center the
currency’s trading band higher.  The  Singapore dollar  has gained more than 13 percent
against the U.S. currency in the past year to be the best
performer in  Asia  excluding  Japan . It traded at S$1.2081 a
dollar at 12:28 p.m. local time.  Prices fell 0.2 percent last month from May, without
adjusting for seasonal factors, today’s report showed.  Singapore’s unemployment rate fell to 1.9 percent in the
first quarter and companies are increasing wages to retain
workers as job vacancies rise. Average wages before adjusting
for inflation rose 8.5 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier, the Ministry of Manpower said June 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  