-- 
Single-Dad Courtroom Wins Show Greater Embrace of New Families

-- B y   J o e l   S t o n i n g t o n   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 
2011-07-25T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/single-dad-courtroom-victories-show-greater-u-s-embrace-of-new-families.html
Joe Cioffi, a physician from
Fairfield,  Connecticut , settled for visitation rights to his son
after he and the boy’s mother split up. Soon, he decided that
wasn’t enough, so he spent four years struggling to win primary
custody.  “Why should I be the underdog here?” Cioffi, 59, said of
his clash with his former girlfriend. “I’m a professional. I
pay my bills. I’m not a criminal. I’m home at night. So we
played hardball.”  Cioffi’s custody victory and living arrangement encapsulate
two distinct changes driving a 27.3 percent jump in U.S.
families led by single fathers in the past decade, according to
figures released from the  2010 census . While the number of
single dads remains small, greater acceptance of shared custody
and more unmarried couples have altered traditional ideas of
child rearing, demographic experts said.  “It’s time for us to stop assuming that single parents are
always women,” said  Andrew Cherlin , a professor of sociology
and public policy at  Johns Hopkins University  in Baltimore.
“There is a visible presence now of single men caring for their
kids. We didn’t see that a few decades ago.”  Single dads now account for 8 percent of American
households with children, up from 6.3 percent in 2000 and 1.1
percent in 1950,  census data show . Cioffi’s community has
outpaced the national rise in households led by single fathers.
(His former girlfriend, through her attorney Janis Laliberte,
declined to comment for this story.)  Single-Father Surge  The number in Fairfield County rose 31 percent during the
decade, to 5,457 from 4,167, three times the growth in single
mothers, who were up 10.1 percent to 21,811, according to the
census. Fairfield, which has 335,545 total households, is one of
the wealthiest counties in the nation with a median household
income of $81,114.  Male same-sex households with related children are a small
portion nationwide and in Connecticut, where they made up 828 of
the state’s 1,371,087 households in 2010, census data show.  As fathers have gotten more involved in the lives of their
children and mothers have increasingly entered the workforce, it
has become less unusual for fathers to seek and gain custody.  “If the dad is really interested in getting custody and
wants to have a relationship with his kids, he is far more
successful than he was 20 years ago,” said  Margaret Brinig , a
family law professor at the University of  Notre Dame .  Hoosier Daddies  Indiana  passed the first state law in the U.S. favoring
joint parenting in 1973. Before then, the mother was presumed
the better caregiver and entitled to legal custody of the
children.  “Unless the mother was dead or in jail or mentally ill,
the father wouldn’t get the child,” said  Matthew Weinshenker , a
sociology professor at  Fordham University  in New York.  Every state has since passed laws favoring some kind of
joint parenting. Few have gone as far as  Oregon , which approved
a law in 1997 that gave joint physical custody the presumption.  A recently published analysis of Oregon divorce records by
Brinig showed that sole custody awarded to mothers dropped to 51
percent from 68 percent in the five years after the law took
effect.  Even with weaker laws, other states showed big gains for
fathers getting custody of children. The most significant growth
period may be past. Between 1990 and 2000, the number of single
fathers grew by 37.9 percent, greater than the 27.3 percent
increase between 2000 and 2010, according to the census.  Amicable Agreement  Matt Abourezk, 49, a single father in Darien, Connecticut,
said the idea of only occasional contact with his two sons was
unthinkable. He and his ex-wife readily agreed to trade weeks
with the children.  “Two weeks was an awful long time to not see the kids,”
said Abourezk, a photographer.  The rise in the number of single fathers also likely
reflects an increase in the number of unmarried couples living
together, according to Mark Mather, a demographer at the
 Population Reference Bureau , a Washington-based research group.  “The fact that cohabitation rates have increased means
that a lot of these single dads we’re seeing could be living
with a partner,” Mather said. “They may be living with them or
may have a relationship.”  Cohabitation rates more than doubled to 7 percent
nationwide between 1995 and 2010, according to a  Pew Research
Center  analysis of census figures. In Connecticut, 6.6 percent
of the 1.4 million households are unmarried partners.  Broader Shift  The growth in single fathers remains a small percentage of
the larger shift away from the traditional family. The majority
of single parents are still mothers. They head 7.2 percent of
all American households, not just those with kids, compared with
2.4 percent of those households led by single fathers, according
to census figures.  As women have entered the workforce in larger numbers, they
continue to do more of the parenting and still end up spending
more time with the kids.  Between 1965 and 2000, men more than doubled the time they
spent playing with and teaching their children, from 2.5 to 6.5
hours a week, according to a 2007 study by the  Russell Sage
Foundation , a New York-based social-science research
organization. Mothers spent almost double that amount engaging
in such activities, or 12.9 hours a week, in 2000.  Even some fathers who have won a greater share of child
custody say that mothers are better caregivers.  “Mothers are more nurturing,” Abourezk said. “I know
that’s a stereotype. People might say, ‘What, are you living in
the ‘50s, Matt?’ But the bottom line is, there’s some truth to
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Stonington in  New York  at 
 jstonington@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  