-- 
Sinyi Seeks to Help China’s ‘Smart Rabbits’ Invest in Japanese Real Estate

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-07-25T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/sinyi-seeks-to-help-china-s-smart-rabbits-invest-in-japanese-real-estate.html
Sinyi Realty Co. (9940) , Taiwan’s biggest
property brokerage, is seeking to help Chinese and Taiwanese
buyers find real-estate investments in  Japan  as government curbs
slow down their home markets.  Policies aimed at easing their real-estate markets is
prompting Chinese and Taiwanese investors to look to Japan where
low interest rates and rental income provide yields that are
twice those available at home, said Jeremy Shiue, president of
Taipei-based Sinyi.  “Japan property prices are at a low while China and Taiwan
are currently trying to suppress  home prices , so capital in
those places is looking for an exit,” Shiue said in an
interview. “We tell our customers not to invest in Chinese
property in the next year.”  China, which this month raised  interest rates  for the fifth
time since October, expanded efforts to curb the growth in
residential prices to smaller cities after limiting home
purchases in Beijing and  Shanghai . Taiwan increased borrowing
costs for a fifth straight quarter last month and introduced a
luxury duty if properties are sold within two years of purchase.  Taiwan’s transaction volume will likely drop 10 percent
this year after the luxury tax “kicked speculators out of the
market,” Shiue said. Sinyi, which opened its first branch in
Japan last year, expects its own sales in that market to double,
helped by Chinese investors looking for new places to put funds.  Bridge  “Taiwan has a special role between  China  and Japan,” said
Shiue. “We can serve as a bridge between Japan and China.”  Sinyi, which gets 90 percent of its revenue from its 350
branches in Taiwan, posted a record NT$2 billion ($69 million)
net income last year, helped by lowest interest rates ever and
an inflow of funds from overseas. In China, its 81 Sinyi and 139
Coldwell Banker Corp. outlets contributed 10 percent of its
sales last year, Shiue said.  Japan’s market is showing signs of a pickup after the March
11 magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami. Housing starts rose 6.4
in May as construction companies broke ground on more homes than
a year earlier, a land ministry report showed.  Japan’s Diet yesterday approved a 2 trillion yen ($25.5
billion) disaster package to rebuild after the record quake.
Rental yields of 5 percent to 6 percent are double those in
 Taiwan  or China because property prices in the country haven’t
climbed as much as in other Asian markets, Shiue said.  Chinese investors “see a risk in saving all their money in
China, so they want to relocate assets offshore,” Shiue said.
“In Chinese, there’s a saying: ‘A smart rabbit has three
dens.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  