-- 
Slovak Ruling SaS Party Rejects Terms of Second Greek Bailout

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-07-25T14:23:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/slovak-ruling-sas-party-rejects-terms-of-second-greek-bailout.html
Slovakia’s Freedom and Solidarity
Party, which the coalition needs to maintain a parliamentary
majority, rejects the country’s participation in the European
Union’s permanent aid fund and the new Greek rescue plan.  Richard Sulik, the chairman of the party known its SaS
acronym, said his party is against a July 21 agreement at a
summit of EU leaders on a second rescue for  Greece  and
strengthening of the bloc’s bailout mechanism to assist other
distressed countries. Should any related proposals be
submitted to Parliament, SaS lawmakers will vote against them,
he said.  EU leaders, struggling to keep the debt crisis from
spreading, agreed to on providing Greece on the second rescue
package in 15 months, worth 159 billion euros ($223 billion).
Even as Slovakia’s opposition alone can’t block the plan, the
Sulik’s comments add to increasing opposition in northern
euro-region countries to use taxpayer money to solve the
crisis.  “We are not solving anything, just delaying Greek
problems,” Sulik said at a press conference in Bratislava,
Slovakia. “We are on the road toward a transfer union, in
which responsible countries will subsidize irresponsible
ones.”  The plan for Greece includes 50 billion euros in
contributions from private investors through bond exchanges
and buybacks to cut  Europe ’s biggest debt. The leaders also
agreed to strengthen the EU rescue system, which includes
replacing the temporary fund with a permanent European
Stability Mechanism.  Slovakia is the only country in the euro region that
refused to participate in the 110 billion-euro bailout of
Greece agreed to more than a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net . 