-- 
Societe Generale Undermined by Greek Debt Crisis After Kerviel

-- B y   R i c h a r d   T o m l i n s o n   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-07-25T21:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/societe-generale-undermined-by-greek-debt-crisis-in-recovery-from-kerviel.html
In a locked room on the 33rd floor
of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA’s 36-story headquarters in western Paris,
members of the bank’s fraud control team peer at their
computers, scrutinizing the trades being executed by dealers in
eight trading rooms on the floors below.  They’re searching for clues that Societe Generale might
harbor another  Jerome Kerviel , the junior dealer who bank
officials discovered in January 2008 had amassed some 50 billion
euros ($72 billion) of unauthorized trades -- which, when
unwound, cost the bank 4.9 billion euros in losses.  The sleuths investigate when a trader triggers one of about
80 different alerts built into the bank’s proprietary security
system, Bloomberg Markets reports in its September issue. They
include exceeding a euro trading limit, deferring a transaction
date or failing to take vacation -- all behavior that Kerviel,
now appealing a fraud conviction and a three-year prison
sentence, displayed as he frantically tried to cover wrong-way
bets on the direction of the stock market.  “We introduced specific controls to guard against what
Kerviel did,” says Severin Cabannes, the bank’s deputy chief
executive officer with responsibility for fraud and risk
control. “We can now say that his kind of fraud is no longer
possible.”  With Kerviel in mind, SocGen CEO Frederic Oudea has made
“growth with lower risk” his top priority since taking over
France’s second-largest bank by market value in 2008, repeating
the phrase almost every time he speaks to analysts, investors
and the press.  Heavy Greece Exposure  Today, Oudea, 48, faces hazards from a different direction.
SocGen and other French banks are heavily exposed to the
sovereign-debt crisis enveloping Greece and other euro-zone
nations. SocGen owns 88 percent of Athens-based  Geniki Bank (TGEN)  SA -
- whose stock was down 51.9 percent this year as of July 25 --
and held 2.5 billion euros of Greek debt at the end of March,
SocGen reported.  “A default by Greece would trigger a catastrophe for
Societe Generale,” says Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps oversee
$400 million, including SocGen shares, at Paris-based
investment firm Ofi Gestion Privee.  Oudea insists the bank has the resources to weather
whatever happens in Greece.  “Given our exposure to Greek sovereign debt, the direct
impact of any restructuring scenario would be manageable for the
bank,” he said on June 28.  Moody’s Threatens Downgrade  SocGen’s Greek exposure was one reason Moody’s Investors
Service announced on June 15 that it was reviewing the lender’s
rating and that of two other big French banks in anticipation of
a downgrade. France holds more Greek loans than any other
European country: $56.7 billion, including $15 billion in
sovereign debt, the Basel, Switzerland-based Bank for
International Settlements says.  In July, the panic spread from Greece to  Italy  after
Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s  said they were reviewing ratings
for that country and its banks.  As the Italian crisis unfolded, SocGen’s shares plunged,
falling 14.4 percent from July 1 to July 11. The lender’s shares
tumbled 5.5 percent more on July 18 following the release of the
results of stress tests conducted by the European Banking
Authority on 90 banks, including SocGen.  “The tests show that Societe Generale is at the tail end of
large European banks, with a capital position that’s more
stretched than bigger rivals,” says Francois Chaulet, who helps
manage more than 200 million euros, including SocGen shares, at
Montsegur Finance, an investment firm in Paris.  New Bailout Plan  European Union officials announced a new rescue package for
Greece after markets closed on July 21 in which it would be
given 159 billion euros of new aid with lower  interest rates  and
longer repayment terms. Private banks agreed to participate in
the rescue by writing down the value of their Greek bonds by 21
percent as part of a bond exchange and debt buyback program.  SocGen and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, France’s largest bank, are among
banks supporting the plan, according to a statement by the
Washington-based  Institute of International Finance . SocGen’s
shares jumped 6.2 percent on July 21, to 38.23 euros, in
anticipation of the agreement. The shares closed yesterday at
36.27.  “It’s excellent news for banks, including SocGen,” Chaulet
says.  Beyond the sovereign-debt crisis, Oudea says he has
addressed the issues that have caused 147-year-old SocGen to
lose two-thirds of its market value since 2007.  On the same day that bank executives announced Kerviel’s
fraud in January 2008, they disclosed they had taken 2.1 billion
euros in writedowns, mostly against U.S. debt securities SocGen
held.  Risky Paper  That turned out to be just a small part of about 11 billion
euros in credit losses and writedowns the bank has reported
since 2007. And SocGen still has 29.5 billion euros of
securities in its legacy assets division, which holds risky
paper whose market value plummeted during the financial crisis.  Oudea’s fraud controls are part of a larger reorganization.
The CEO has combined the once-autonomous equity derivatives
unit, where Kerviel worked, with the fixed-income operation,
grouping all of the bank’s traders into a single capital-markets
division. In addition to strict, monitored trading limits, the
bank has imposed a raft of other security measures, including
biometric codes and frequent password changes for staff members
seeking access to confidential financial data.  Still, Oudea’s overall strategy is little changed from that
of his predecessor and mentor,  Daniel Bouton , says Chaulet.
Bouton resigned as CEO in 2008 in the wake of the Kerviel
scandal. The lender relies for about half of its profits on its
corporate and investment bank.  Equity Derivatives  That division has only one product in which it’s a world
leader: equity derivatives, which are options on stocks and
stock indexes that the bank creates for customers and trades for
its own account. And Oudea, like Bouton, is looking for future
growth in volatile emerging markets, including  Russia  and the
 Middle East .  “My aim is to ensure that Societe Generale appears at the
end of four years as one of the strongest banks in this
landscape,” Oudea says, grabbing a notepad and, with swift pen
strokes, drawing a crude diagram showing  Europe  as the bank’s
hub and the Middle East, North Africa and Russia as the spokes.  At least for the short term, that commitment is hurting
SocGen’s bottom line. SocGen’s 2004 acquisition of Geniki Bank
has never earned it a penny. In 2010, the Greek lender’s losses
almost quadrupled to 411 million euros, as steep public-spending
cuts slowed the economy. On May 4, Geniki reported a first-
quarter loss of 98.6 million euros, double its deficit of a year
earlier.  Mideast Turmoil  Operations at SocGen’s network of retail bank branches in
the Middle East, including Egypt, Tunisia and four other
countries, have been disrupted by the turmoil there. And the
bank has a 700-branch retail network in Russia that from 2008 to
2010 cost it about 450 million euros, according to SocGen data.  Partly because of its exposure to the Middle East and
Greece, SocGen reported on May 5 that first-quarter profit fell
14 percent from a year earlier, to 916 million euros.  Oudea told shareholders on May 24 that the recent bad news
hadn’t knocked the bank off track. Anchored by its profitable
French retail bank, which has earned 1 billion euros or more
every year since 2005, SocGen was one of a clutch of big
European banks to come through the financial crisis without
losing money. Net income was 2 billion euros in 2008 and 678
million euros in 2009. Oudea’s goal is to deliver a profit of 6
billion euros in 2012.  M&A Push  One avenue to that goal is the expansion of SocGen’s
investment bank in areas such as mergers and acquisitions, Oudea
says. Since mid-2010, he has added 15 senior M&A executives
around the world, hiring some of them from competitors  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and BNP Paribas.  “The big money in investment banking, in a world that
requires more and more capital, is advisory, initial public
offerings and  equity trading,” says  Peter Hahn , a professor of
finance at  London ’s Cass Business School and a former managing
director at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  As of July 25, SocGen ranked 17th in
global M&A, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Meanwhile, SocGen continues to make money via equity
derivatives. They contributed more than 25 percent of sales for
the group’s corporate-lending and investment-banking division in
2010, according to estimates by  Kian Abouhossein , a London-based
analyst at JPMorgan.  Beating Goldman Sachs  “Societe Generale has a superb equity derivatives
business,” says Abouhossein, who forecasts that in 2011, the
French bank’s unit will be No. 1 worldwide, ahead of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   SocGen will have $3.9 billion of revenue from equity
derivatives this year compared with $3.4 billion for Goldman, he
calculates. The bank itself doesn’t break out separate numbers
for derivatives.  Those securities include both conventional put and call
options and complex structured financial products traded over
the counter. The equity derivatives unit includes men and women
with advanced degrees in engineering and financial mathematics
from prestigious schools such as  Ecole Centrale Paris  and  Ecole
Polytechnique .  Oudea’s ambition to expand the investment bank will be
hamstrung by the dearth of business it does in the U.S., says
 Simon Maughan , co-head of European equities at MF Global Ltd. in
London.  ‘One Bank Everywhere’  “The world’s biggest companies and financial institutions
want to deal with one bank everywhere, including the U.S.,” he
says. “Why does anyone need a bank that just specializes in
Europe?”  Oudea’s shunning of the U.S. is in line with the policy of
his predecessor, Bouton, who says he didn’t think SocGen could
compete for U.S.-based clients in fixed-income products.  “I didn’t want to go head-to-head with the world leaders in
this market, like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley,” says
Bouton, 61, who’s now an adviser to private bank Rothschild &
Cie.  Oudea says SocGen can achieve a wide international reach
while rooted in Europe because the bank still offers clients a
full range of services and products denominated in dollars.  Fabrice Remon, who heads the French office of Deminor
International SCRL, a Brussels-based advisory firm for minority
shareholders, questions whether Oudea is the man to plot the
bank’s future. Oudea was SocGen’s chief financial officer from
2003 to 2008. He was a protege of Bouton, who hired him in 1995
to help run SocGen’s U.K. corporate-lending division.  ENA Graduates  Both men are graduates of France’s Ecole Nationale
d’Administration, a training college for the country’s highest-
ranked civil servants and top executives, and both served as
senior government officials before joining SocGen.  “Societe Generale should have put someone at the helm who
had no conflict of interest and was sufficiently independent
rather than Oudea, who was so implicated in the crisis,” Remon
says.  Oudea is lucky he wasn’t ousted along with Bouton, says
Anis Bouayad, founder of Strategie Alliance, a business advisory
firm in Paris.  “Logic required that no one on the management board should
have been spared, starting with Oudea,” he says. “However, it
wasn’t in the interest of shareholders to decapitate all of the
bank’s senior management.”  Anthony Wyand, SocGen’s senior independent director,
defends Oudea’s role, saying he “absolutely was not involved
with Kerviel.”  Collective Responsibility  Oudea, striding around SocGen’s 35th-floor CEO suite, which
commands a view of the Arc de Triomphe 3 miles (4.8 kilometers)
east, says SocGen’s management board in 2008 shared collective
responsibility for Kerviel. And he insists that the scandal --
and the bank’s purchase of tens of billions of dollars of toxic
debt -- are in the past.  If Kerviel hadn’t happened, both Bouton and Oudea say,
SocGen would have received praise for staying profitable during
the credit crunch.  “Societe Generale fared well in the global financial crisis
of 2008 and 2009 compared with a lot of its peers,” Oudea says.  Still, the damage in 2008 would have been far worse if
SocGen hadn’t protected itself against the default of some $11
billion in securities backed by U.S. mortgages with credit-
default swaps it bought from insurance giant  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)   After the U.S. government took over
AIG in September 2008, it paid more than 20 banks 100 percent of
what AIG owed on the swaps. SocGen was No. 1 on the list.  AIG Payoff  Oudea says SocGen was entitled to be paid in full on the
swaps. “We had legal contracts, and all we did was apply the
legal contracts,” he says.  SocGen’s bankers give themselves too much credit for their
handling of Kerviel and the market meltdown, says Jerome Forneris, who helps manage $11 billion, including SocGen shares,
at Banque Martin Maurel in Marseille.  “They told us at the time they had maximum risk controls,
and they didn’t see Kerviel,” he says. Forneris now says Oudea
has done a good job of turning the bank around.  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, an analyst who covers European banks
at London-based Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd., says SocGen
management’s confidence in its strategy is misplaced. He says
Oudea should curb his ambitions and stick with what works.  “Societe Generale should just try to be a decent retail-
banking player in France, a corporate lender across Europe and
do equity derivatives,” Hoffmann-Becking says.  And it should beware of Greeks bearing bonds.  Editors: Michael Serrill, Laura Colby  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Tomlinson in London at 
 rtomlinson1@bloomberg.net ;
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  