-- 
South Africa’s Biggest Labor Group Calls For Julius Malema Investigation

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-07-25T12:45:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/south-africa-s-biggest-labor-group-calls-for-julius-malema-investigation.html
Allies of  South Africa ’s ruling
 African National Congress  called for an investigation into
claims that  Julius Malema , the party’s youth leader, was paid to
help businesses win government contracts.  Malema, who has declared war on “white monopoly capital”
in  Africa ’s biggest economy, was the sole trustee of a fund,
named after his 5-year-old son, that received the payments and
was used to finance a lavish lifestyle, Johannesburg-based  City
Press  reported yesterday. Malema, 30, denied he was paid to help
secure government contracts or spent money from the Ratanang
Family Trust on himself, according to an affidavit to the
Johannesburg High Court e-mailed by City Press lawyers today.  The ANC, the police and the South African Revenue Services
should probe Malema’s finances, the Congress of South African
Trade Unions, the country’s largest labor federation and a
ruling party ally, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
police should look into whether Malema broke the law, Malesela
Maleka, spokesman for the  South African Communist Party , another
ANC partner, said in an interview today.  “If indeed some of the allegations are true, then of
course it is very serious,” Patrick Craven, Cosatu’s spokesman,
said in an interview on e-TV today. “We will urge that strong
action is taken should there be any offense.”  ‘Poor And Needy’  Malema set up the  trust fund  “to help poor and needy
students,” ANC Youth League Secretary-General Sindiso Magaqa
told reporters in Johannesburg today.  After winning a second term as president of the ANC Youth
League last month, Malema reiterated a call for the
nationalization of the country’s mines and banks. His support
helped President  Jacob Zuma  win control of the ANC in 2007.  “Julius Malema remains the commander in chief of economic
liberation fighters,” Magaqa said, calling the allegations
“dirty tricks” by the “right-wing media” designed to
sidetrack the Youth League’s nationalization drive. “The media
has been funded by the imperialist forces, the faceless people
who still continue to suck the blood of African people.”  AfriForum, a civil rights group, said yesterday that it
submitted a formal accusation of corruption against Malema to
police in  Pretoria , the capital.  “As well as the corruption allegations, the fact that
Malema’s lifestyle and property is disproportionate to his
salary are sound reasons to justify extensive police
investigation,” AfriForum Chief Executive Officer Kallie Kriel
said in an e-mailed statement.  Tax Authorities  The opposition Democratic Alliance on July 19 said it asked
tax authorities to audit Malema as his “lavish lifestyle and
spending habits” are inconsistent with his salary of about
20,000 rand ($2,949) a month.  Having grown up in a township outside the northern town of
Polokwane, Malema is now driven around in a white Range Rover
and sports a Breitling watch.  Law enforcement agencies “must investigate the allegations
and get to the bottom of this,” the communist party’s Maleka
said. “These are serious and weighty allegations.”  The ANC said it would not raise the issue with Malema.  “This is a personal matter and it remains to us
personal,” party spokesman Brian Sokutu said in a phone
interview today. “We think there is absolutely nothing
unethical about Julius being involved in business because he is
neither a member of parliament nor does he hold a government
position. As far as this whole furor is concerned, we would be
more concerned if he was involved in breaking the law.”  Malema failed in a court bid to stop City Press from
publishing its story, because Johannesburg High Court Judge
Colin Lamont ruled that his financial affairs are of public
interest, the  newspaper reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 