-- 
Anglo’s South African Thermal Coal Output Halted by Strike

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-07-25T16:40:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/south-africa-s-uasa-says-workers-at-four-coal-mines-join-strike.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s thermal coal
mining operations in  South Africa  have halted after workers
started a strike over pay, threatening supplies of the fuel to
power stations in the continent’s biggest economy.  Production has “stopped completely at all our
operations,” Hulisani Rasivhaga, an Anglo spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “We have kept essential
services running, such as water monitoring and ventilation.”  Strikes by South African petroleum, chemical, engineering,
gold and platinum workers have curbed output from factories and
mines, and interrupted fuel deliveries. Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd.,
supplier of about 95 percent of the country’s power, generated
mainly from coal, has had deliveries disrupted, Tony Stott, a
spokesman for the utility, said by mobile phone.  “If the strike is protracted, our contingency plans will
come under severe strain,” Stott said. “We are also concerned
about how easy it would be once the strike is over for our
suppliers to increase production to build up stockpiles ahead of
the rainy season” beginning in October, he said. Power station
stocks are on average enough for 38 days and Eskom wouldn’t want
to see the level decline to below 20 to 28 days, Stott said.  Anglo produced 59 million metric tons of thermal coal in
South Africa last year, of which 62 percent went to Eskom,
according to the mining company’s website.  Wage Demands  Eskom burned 124.7 million tons of coal to generate
electricity in the 12 months ended March 2011, according to its
annual report.  The United Association of South Africa and the  National
Union of Mineworkers , the country’s biggest labor union, are
demanding wage increases of 14 percent, while the Solidarity
union is asking for 12 percent. Coal producers are offering
increases ranging from 6 percent to 8.5 percent. The inflation
rate is 5 percent.  UASA workers my join NUM and Solidarity members on strike
at  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s biggest exporter of thermal coal,
the union said. “There is a strong indication from several
Xstrata mines that they will join the strike” on July 28 if
demands aren’t met, it said in a statement.  Xstrata mined 17.7 million tons of thermal coal in South
Africa in 2010, according to the company’s production report.
South Africa was the fifth-largest thermal coal exporter in
2009, with shipments of 66 million tons, according to the World
Coal Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  