-- 
Spain Says Greek Rescue ‘Solid,’ Private-Sector Role Exceptional

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-07-25T15:20:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/spain-says-greek-rescue-solid-private-sector-role-exceptional.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said investors need to know that last week’s
European Union accord bailing out  Greece  is “solid” and that
private-sector participation is “exceptional.”  “Markets must know the accord is solid and detailed,”
Zapatero said at a televised news conference in  London  today.
“The euro zone has said private investors’ participation in the
Greek rescue plan is exceptional, it is only for Greece, because
the debt volume is very high.”  Zapatero’s minority Socialist government is battling to
convince investors Spain can stem the euro area’s third-largest
deficit and doesn’t need international aid to avoid following
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  into a bailout.  EU leaders reached an agreement on July 21 on a second
rescue package for Greece worth 159 billion euros ($223 billion)
and strengthened the region’s bailout mechanism to offer
protection to other euro-region nations in a bid to stamp out
contagion from the debt crisis.  “The euro zone will not let Greece fall,” said Zapatero.
The summit accord guarantees Greece support from the euro region
until it can return to market funding.  The impact of the financial crisis would have been worse if
it hadn’t been for the EU, Zapatero said.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield rose to 5.96 percent at 15:57
p.m. in London, compared with 5.76 percent at the end of last
week after the EU accord. The gap between Spanish and German 10-
year borrowing costs widened to 318 basis points, or 3.18
percentage points, from 296 basis points when the market opened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  