-- 
Stifel Buys Stone & Youngberg to Expand Muni Banking Reach in California

-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 
2011-07-25T21:27:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/stifel-buys-stone-youngberg-to-expand-muni-banking-reach-in-california.html
Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , a St. Louis-
based brokerage that has quintupled revenue since 2005 with nine
acquisitions, said it bought Stone & Youngberg LLC,  California ’s
fourth-biggest municipal-bond underwriter.  The latest deal, whose terms weren’t disclosed in a
statement today, will boost Stifel’s public-finance banking
business in the western U.S. Stone & Youngberg, based in San
Francisco, has managed $2.3 billion in bond sales by issuers in
California this year, ranking fourth overall in the state,
according to Bloomberg data.  “Stone & Youngberg fits very well with our overall
strategy of creating the premier middle-market investment
bank,” Ronald Kruszewski, Stifel’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said in the statement. Stone & Youngberg had revenue of
about $100 million in 2010 and the combined company will have
about 100 public-finance professionals, according to Stifel.  Stifel is expanding its municipal-bond business even as new
issues this year have declined about 50 percent from the same
period in 2010. For the first six months, 2011 issuance has
averaged $4 billion a week, the lowest rate since at least 2003.
Tepid demand from individual investors has coupled with budget
deficits to curb borrowing by state and local governments.  U.S. states and municipalities issued about $121 billion of
bonds last week compared with $216.6 billion in the same period
a year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Last year, Stifel and San Francisco-based Stone & Youngberg
managed more than 500 municipal bond issues, raising more than
$8.5 billion, according to the Stifel statement.  Stifel will use the Stone & Youngberg brand in the markets
the  San Francisco  broker currently serves, Stifel indicated. The
companies plan to complete the acquisition, which is subject to
regulatory approval, by Oct. 1.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  