-- 
STMicro Slumps by Most in Decade on Forecast of Drop in Sales to Nokia

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-07-26T15:55:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/stmicroelectronics-second-quarter-profit-rises-on-auto-sales-1-.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  fell the most
in a decade in Paris trading after Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  said there will be a “correction” in sales and gross
margin in the third quarter because of difficulties at customer
 Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)   STMicroelectronics,  Europe ’s largest semiconductor maker,
expects “some glitches at our major wireless customer,”Bozotti said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. Nokia,
the Finnish mobile-phone maker that’s ceding market share to
Apple Inc., is STMicro’s top client.  The CEO predicted a “significant reduction in the demand
outlook from a major customer compared to previous
expectations.” The Geneva-based company expects “to absorb
this important, negative bubble from our major customer in the
third quarter,” he said, adding that the correction may take
two quarters to adjust.  STMicroelectronics has been hit by the performance of
Nokia, which is turning to Microsoft Corp. for smartphone
software as it struggles to keep up the pace with rivals’
products based on Google Inc.’s Android. STMicroelectronics has
also been affected by losses at ST-Ericsson, its chip joint
venture with Ericsson AB, which has struggled to turn profitable
since being formed in 2009.  STMicroelectronics shares declined 11 percent, their
biggest drop since September 2001, to 5.67 euros, in Paris. The
chipmaker has a market value of 5.17 billion euros ($7.49
billion).  STMicro’s revenue generated from Nokia fell below 10
percent of total sales in the second quarter compared to about
10.5 percent in the first three months of this year and about 14
percent in 2010, Bozotti said in a conference call. “One of our
major initiatives is the diversification of our customer base”
to counter the declines at Nokia, he added.  ST-Ericsson  The company is “committed to” ST-Ericsson, Bozotti said
in a conference call today. He predicted a “significant
increase” in revenue at the venture next year and added that
the financial performance “must improve.”  “Nokia has had a major impact on the outlook,” said
Saverio Papagno, an analyst at AZ Fund Management in Luxembourg.
“Visibility is very low and in this phase it’s difficult to say
whether the lower demand will affect only the third quarter or
last longer.”  Nokia, the world’s largest maker of mobile phones, on July
21 reported its first quarterly loss since 2009 after handset
sales slumped following an accord to shift to Microsoft
software. Nokia expects the handset unit to deliver an adjusted
operating margin of “slightly above breakeven” in the third
quarter.  Global Forecast  Exane BNP Paribas downgraded STMicro to “underperform”
from “neutral” today. Analyst Jerome Ramel cited the “ugly”
third-quarter guidance and the “collapse” in the gross margin.
Banca Akros cut its recommendation on the shares to “reduce”
from “hold,” citing an outlook “projecting revenues quite
below expectations.”  ST-Ericsson  said July 20 that its second-quarter net loss
widened to $221 million from a year earlier as sales fell. ST-
Ericsson, whose clients include Nokia and Samsung Electronics
Co., expects net sales “to be about flat sequentially,” in the
third quarter.  ST-Ericsson last month announced cost cuts aimed at saving
$120 million a year and pushed back the date at which it expects
to become profitable. The cuts will “affect up to 500 employees
worldwide,” the company said.  STMicroelectronics said late yesterday that second-quarter
net income rose 18 percent to $420 million on increased demand
for chips used in cars and a settlement payment from Credit
Suisse. Net revenue advanced 1.4 percent to $2.57 billion.  STMicroelectronics said June 9 that it received $356.8
million from Credit Suisse as “full and final” payment to
settle outstanding litigation concerning auction-rate
securities. The chipmaker projected pretax profit of about $329
million in the second quarter as a result.  Chip sales for the industry will be between flat and 5
percent higher this year, Bozotti said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  