-- 
Strike Contagion Afflicts BHP, Anglo as Miners Seek Bigger Share

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-07-25T10:39:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/strike-contagion-afflicts-bhp-anglo-as-miners-seek-bigger-slice-of-profit.html
Mine workers across three continents
are striking over pay, disrupting production as near-record
prices for coal, copper and gold boost profit at  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)   BHP workers voted yesterday to extend their strike at the
Escondida copper mine in Chile, the world’s largest. Stoppages
at BHP’s Australian steelmaking coal operations may resume this
week. Thirty thousand South African coal mine workers for companies
including Anglo American and Xstrata who walked off the job yesterday
may be joined by 160,000 gold industry workers seeking a pay increase
more than twice as large as employers are offering.  Workers are seeking a larger slice as global producers
report record earnings. Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s biggest
mining company, will report its highest full-year profit of
$22.5 billion next month, almost double 2010’s net income,
according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Xstrata
may report record 2011 profit of $7.3 billion, and Anglo
American of $7.4 billion, estimates show.  Mining companies “are making record profits, commodity
prices have held up pretty well and of course workers can see
this, so as a result they’re saying ‘We want our share,’” Gavin Wendt, director at Sydney-based Mine Life Pty Ltd. said by
phone. “It’s happening at a time when investors already are
nervous about a whole bunch of things. This doesn’t help.”  Copper prices, up 38 percent in the past 12 months, rose
last week amid concern that other mines in  Chile  may join the
stoppage by workers at Escondida, source of about a fifth of all
copper produced in Chile, the top supplier of the metal used in
wiring and plumbing.  Higher Bonuses  Staff at the mine are seeking higher production bonuses and
better job conditions, union leaders have said.  “The company has indicated it doesn’t want to talk anymore
with us so we’ll remain halted,” Salomon Alcaino, a union
director, said yesterday by telephone from Antofagasta.  He spoke after a meeting of union officials representing
workers at mines owned by Anglo American,  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and Xstrata. The Chilean mining union
movement is on “a state of alert” and may join the walkout if
Escondida’s demands aren’t met, he said.  South Africa ’s National Union of Mineworkers, the country’s
biggest labor union, wants a 14 percent pay increase, while coal
producers are offering 7 percent, and 8.5 percent to entry-level
employees. Oil workers have been on strike since July 11 over
their demand for a pay increase of at least 10 percent.  India , Europe  The country’s Richards Bay Coal Terminal is the largest in
 Africa , shipping about 63 million metric tons annually,
including to  power plants  in Europe and India. The terminal had
2.99 million tons of stockpiles at the end of June.  Wage talks affecting 160,000 South African gold industry
workers resume today and unions say they will strike if their
demands for a 14 percent increase aren’t met. Employers
including  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the third-largest producer,
and Gold Fields Ltd. are offering maximum 5.5 percent increases.  Gold climbed to a record in London and  New York  today.
Immediate delivery gold advanced as much as 1.4 percent to
$1,624.07 an ounce in London. Gold for August delivery reached a
record $1,624.30 an ounce on the Comex in New York.  De Beers , the world’s largest diamond producer, said today
“some” output continues at its mines in South Africa after a
strike over pay started July 22.  About 3,500 workers at BHP’s coking coal mines in
Queensland are taking part in rolling strikes that began in
June, the company’s first in a decade at its Australian coal
mines. The last stoppages took place over the weekend at Saraji
mine, one of the mines owned by BHP Billiton Mitsubishi
Alliance, a joint venture by BHP and Mitsubishi Development Pty.  Job Security   Workers will stop work for 36 hours on July 27 at the
Norwich Park mine, followed by halts at six other mines,
according to  Stephen Smyth , a division president at the
Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union in Queensland,
one of the unions representing the workers in negotiations with
BHP. The workers are seeking changes to job contracts in matters
relating to job security, recruitment, use of contractors,
training and development, Smyth said.  The strikes may have bolstered coal prices already driven
higher by supply shortages following floods in the Australian
state earlier this year. Steelmaking-coal prices rose 47 percent
to a record $330 a ton for three-month contracts ended in June
after heavy rain and flooding in  Australia  shut mines and
disrupted deliveries in the first three months of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  