-- 
SunPower Drops Before Solar-Panel Maker Misses Profit Estimates

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-25T22:43:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/sunpower-drops-before-profits-miss-estimates.html
SunPower Corp. (SPWRA) , the second-biggest
U.S. maker of solar panels, tumbled 2.6 percent in 131 seconds
today, about an hour before the shares were halted and the
company reported worse-than-estimated results.  SunPower lost 2.6 percent between 3:39 p.m. and 3:41 p.m.
in  New York , falling to $21.01 from $21.56, before slumping to
$20.88 at the 4 p.m. close of trading and ending with a full-day
loss of 6.5 percent. At 4:30 p.m., the company said in a
statement that it lost money in the second quarter, while
analysts anticipated profit, because of business conditions in
Germany and  Italy .  The company’s loss excluding some items was 19 cents to 20
cents a share during the three-month period that ended July 3,
according to today’s statement. That compared with the average
analyst earnings projection of 2 cents a share for  San Jose ,
California-based SunPower, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It looks incredibly strange,” Paul Leming, an analyst
with Ticonderoga Securities LLC in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “It looks like someone had the release ahead of
time, but I don’t have any information to back that up except
for the pattern in the trading,” said Leming, who has a
“neutral” rating on the shares.  Bob Okunski, a spokesman for SunPower, said in an e-mail
that the company doesn’t comment on the trading of its stock.
Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, declined to comment on whether the
regulator will review the timing of the retreat.  Today’s drop was the biggest since June 15, a week before
Paris-based  Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil producer, said
it will spend $1.4 billion to buy 60 percent of the company.  “A stock shouldn’t sell off like that in the last hour of
trading ahead of an important negative release,” Mark Bachman,
a Boston-based analyst at Avian Securities LLC who has a
“negative” rating on the shares, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  