-- 
Syria Holds Hundreds at Protests as Cabinet Approves Plan for New Parties

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-25T11:31:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/syria-holds-hundreds-at-protests-as-cabinet-approves-plan-for-new-parties.html
Syrian security forces arrested
hundreds of anti-government protesters as the Cabinet approved a
draft law that would allow new political parties to exist
alongside President Bashar al-Assad’s ruling Baath party.  Women, children and two well-known boxers were among those
detained as people took to the streets yesterday for evening
rallies in parts of the central city of Homs and the suburbs of
Damascus,  Ammar Qurabi , of the National Organization for Human
Rights in  Syria , said in a telephone interview today. At least
300 people were arrested in the capital’s Rukneddine district
alone, he said.  The proposed multiparty law endorsed late yesterday by the
Cabinet is “a waste of time,” Qurabi said. “As long as there
is a system where you have a constitution that says the Baath
party is the main party that leads society and the state, then
this law is pointless,” he said. The Baath party has dominated
Syrian politics since 1963 and banned opposition groups.  At least 19 protesters were killed by security forces over
the weekend, Qurabi said. The protests in Syria to demand
Assad’s ouster are part of the wave of unrest across the  Middle
East  and North Africa this year that unseated the leaders of
Egypt and  Tunisia . Assad has blamed the dissent in Syria on a
foreign conspiracy, while saying demonstrators’ demands “have
merit” and that changes are needed.  Terms of Proposal  The draft approved yesterday lays out the governing
principles and terms related to the setting up of parties and
their functioning, the state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  said.
Any new party must be founded with a “commitment to the
provisions of the constitution, democratic principles, the rule
of law and a respect for freedom and basic rights,” SANA said,
adding that a party must “not be based on religious or tribal
lines, or discriminate due to ethnicity, gender or race.”  The bill is part of a series of measures taken by Assad
that have failed to quell the protests, which began in mid-March
and have been the greatest challenge to his rule since he
inherited power 11 years ago from his father.  The latest killings increased the death toll to 1,936 since
the unrest began, according to Qurabi. His group is joined by
that of Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human
Rights, in compiling the names of those killed, injured or
detained. Thousands of Syrians have fled to  Turkey , Lebanon and
Jordan.  Protests are likely to gain momentum during the Muslim holy
month of Ramadan, which begins in August, and authorities
probably will try to force an end to the unrest before then,
Merhi and Qurabi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 