-- 
U.K. Stocks Decline After Four-Day Rally; Barclays, RBS Retreat

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-07-25T16:11:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/u-k-s-ftse-100-drops-for-first-time-in-five-days-barclays-rbs-retreat.html
U.K. stocks retreated, ending a
four-day rally, as a decline in financial shares after U.S.
lawmakers failed to agree on raising the nation’s debt ceiling
outweighed gains in energy and drugs companies.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank, and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  fell as the lack of a deal between
President Barack Obama and Congress increased concern that the
world’s largest economy may default.  BP Plc (BP/)  and  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK)  rose before releasing earnings tomorrow.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  slipped 9.76, or 0.2 percent,
to 5,925.26 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge has
dropped 2.7 percent since this year’s high on Feb. 8 amid
speculation that Europe’s debt crisis will spread. The broader
 FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  fell 0.2 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index lost 0.4 percent.  The FTSE 100 rose 1.6 percent last week after euro-area
leaders redoubled efforts to end the sovereign-debt crisis by
easing debt terms on  Greece  and enhancing a rescue fund.  “What has the markets spooked now is that the Republicans
and Democrats appear to have abandoned the idea of a bi-partisan
deal and decided to try and forge ahead with their own plans,
making any proposal even less attractive to their political
opponents,” said Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at Capital Spreads
in London.  The  U.S. Congress  failed to agree on a plan for raising the
debt ceiling before a default threatened for Aug. 2, risking a
cut to the nation’s AAA credit rating. Republicans and Democrats
prepared dueling plans for raising the U.S. debt ceiling, unable
to break a partisan stalemate over how to tackle the nation’s
$14.3 trillion debt.  Bank Shares  Barclays fell 4.4 percent to 228.95 pence and RBS retreated
1.6 percent to 36.28 pence.  Aviva Plc (AV/) , Britain’s second-biggest
insurer by market value, dropped 3 percent to 412.6 pence after
four days of gains.  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN)  decreased 1
percent to 115.4 pence.  Payments to shareholders of U.K. companies have risen even
as governments in Europe and the U.S. struggle with their
finances. Dividends in the U.K. grew 27 percent in the second
quarter as BP, the nation’s second-biggest oil company, resumed
payments and the mining industry increased theirs almost
fourfold, Capita Registrars said today.  BP climbed 1.1 percent to 475.4 pence today. Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  could unlock $100 billion for BP
investors by following ConocoPhillips and splitting up the
company, analysts said.  BP Gains  BP, which is trying to recover from last year’s Gulf of
Mexico disaster, has lagged behind its three larger rivals this
year, rising 2.1 percent even as oil peaked at $127 a barrel.
Conoco’s decision to split its refinery arm from its exploration
and production business led analysts at banks including UBS AG,
Bank of America and JPMorgan Cazenove to recommend BP look at a
similar move.  “We believe BP should pursue a shrink-to-grow strategy by
disposing of mature assets,” analysts at HSBC Holdings Plc
including Paul Spedding in London wrote in a report today. “The
proceeds should be returned to shareholders via a buyback
programme.”  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, rose 1.7 percent to
1,363.5 pence ahead of results scheduled for tomorrow.  “We believe GSK’s sales and earnings trends will move to a
sustainably positive trend from the second half of 2011,”
Evolution Securities wrote in a report to investors.
“Confidence in the base of where this trend starts from will be
the key object of our results analysis.”  Ryanair Slips  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  declined 1.8 percent to 3.40 euros in
Dublin. Europe’s biggest discount airline said first-quarter
earnings were little changed after higher fuel costs eroded
gains from rising passenger numbers.  Bank of Ireland Plc added 1 percent to 10.2 euro cents.
Ireland’s government will sell as much as 37 percent of the
country’s largest lender to a group of investors for 1.12
billion euros ($1.61 billion) in an attempt to help the company
avoid majority state control.  Wolfson Microelectronics Plc (WLF)  tumbled 11 percent to 155
pence, the lowest since April 2010, after the maker of
integrated circuits for the data and video industries lowered
its 2011 revenue growth forecast.  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , Europe’s second-largest electronics
retailer, lost 6.1 percent to 15.2 pence. The shares were cut to
“sell” from “neutral” at UBS AG, which said the company will
likely report “weak” first-quarter earnings and the second
half of this year will “remain tough.”  Halfords Group Plc (HFD) , a U.K. seller of car parts and
bicycles, declined 3.9 percent to 337 pence, the lowest since
September 2009. JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts cut their
recommendation on the shares to “underweight” from
“neutral,” citing “considerable risk around Christmas
trading.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  