-- 
U.K. Lawmakers Ask If News Corp. Sought Deletion of E-Mails

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-25T20:24:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/u-k-lawmakers-ask-if-news-corp-sought-deletion-of-e-mails-1-.html
U.K. lawmakers wrote to an Indian
technology company to find out if it was asked by  News Corp. (NWSA)  to
delete e-mails as part of a parliamentary probe into phone
hacking at the now defunct News of the World tabloid.  Keith Vaz, the chairman of the U.K. Parliament’s Home
Affairs Committee, asked New Delhi-based  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT) 
whether it holds e-mails for News Corp.’s British unit, News
International, in its storage facilities in  India . He also asked
whether the media company ever asked to have those messages
deleted, the committee said in a statement today.  Police and at least two parliamentary committees are
investigating whether News of the World reporters bribed police
and the extent to which politicians, celebrities, and murder and
terror victims had their voicemail hacked. The scandal led to
the resignation of senior News Corp. executives and Metropolitan
Police officials, and the closure of the tabloid.  Ranjana Sharma, a spokeswoman for HCL, declined to comment.
Vaz also wrote to Harbottle & Lewis LLP asking that the  law firm 
disclose the advice it gave News International over e-mails it
was asked to examine in 2007 as part of the company’s internal
phone-hacking probe.  Parliament Testimony  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  and his son James told
Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sports Committee on July 19 that
they relied on a 2007 investigation into phone hacking at the
paper that said the practice didn’t extend beyond a former
reporter and private investigator who were jailed. Harbottle &
Lewis said client confidentiality rules prevented it from
defending itself against the Murdochs’ claims.  Ken Macdonald, the former director of Public Prosecutions
in the U.K. who had been hired by News Corp. earlier this year
to review the evidence, told the Home Affairs Committee evidence
in files the law firm had indicated “serious criminal
offenses” may have taken place at the tabloid.  Harbottle & Lewis previously told Vaz in a letter that the
file was “closed and archived” and it couldn’t disclose
information.  “Documents supplied by a client to his solicitor for the
purpose of taking legal advice cannot be disclosed by the
solicitor to third parties, including the police, unless the
solicitor is either compelled to do so or has the permission of
his client,” the firm said.  Harbottle & Lewis didn’t immediately respond to a request
for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 