-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Gold Reaches Record on Debt Deadlock

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-07-25T12:38:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-gold-reaches-record-on-debt-deadlock.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  TOP STORY:  Gold Advances to Record as U.S. Debt Deadlock Boosts Demand  Gold climbed to a record in London and  New York  as U.S.
lawmakers failed to reach an agreement on raising the federal
debt limit, boosting demand for the metal as a protection of
wealth.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Lowest Yield Nearing Brazil’s as Oil Cuts Deficit: Russia Credit  Russia’s record-low bond yields are converging with Brazil
as rising oil prices help erase the budget deficit of the
world’s largest energy exporter.  Aussie Joining Reserve Currencies as Bankers Seek Havens (2)  Commodities are losing their influence over currencies of
nations that depend on raw materials exports as traders seek
havens from the deficit and debt turmoil roiling the European
Union, U.S. and Japan.  AWE May Buy Oil, Gas Assets After Cutting N.Z. Reserves Estimate  AWE Ltd., whose shares fell the most in more than 2 1/2
years after cutting its oil-reserves estimate, said the company
is considering acquisitions in Australia,  New Zealand  and  Asia .  Oil at $120 Now Biggest Bet as Futures Leave Forecasters Behind  The biggest bet in the oil market has become a 20 percent
increase to $120 by the end of the year as global growth drives
demand for raw materials.  Goldman to Buy 26.5% of Aksa Enerji for $450 Million (1)  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will buy 26.47 percent of Aksa
Enerji Uretim AS, a Turkish electricity producer, by paying $450
million, or 5.05 liras a share, to Aksa parent Kazanci Holding
AS, Aksa chairman Cemil Kazanci said in a telephone interview.  BP Breakup Worth $100 Billion to JPMorgan on Strategy Doubts (1)  Robert Dudley could unlock $100 billion for BP Plc
investors by following ConocoPhillips and splitting up  Europe ’s
second-biggest oil producer.  Investors Increase Bullish Commodity Bets by Most in a Year (1)  Funds boosted bets on rising commodity prices by the most
in almost a year on speculation that the global economic
recovery will prove resilient.  Food Prices to Stay High on Underinvestment, Climate, IFAD Says  Global food prices will remain high as underinvestment in
agriculture over decades has left supplies unable to meet
demand, according to a United Nations agency.  North Dakota Soggy Wheat Fields Dimming Prospects for Harvest  Wheat production in North Dakota, the biggest U.S. grower,
may lag behind government estimates after unrelenting rains
delayed planting and made fields more vulnerable to damage from
hot summer weather.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Strike Contagion Afflicts BHP, Anglo as Miners Seek Bigger Share  Mine workers across three continents are striking over pay,
disrupting production as near-record prices for coal, copper and
gold boost profit at BHP Billiton Ltd., Xstrata Plc and Anglo
American Plc.  Sterlite Profit Rises 62% on Higher Copper Prices, Refining Fees  Sterlite Industries ( India ) Ltd., the nation’s largest
copper producer, reported a 62 percent jump in first-quarter
profit, boosted by an increase in refining fees and base metal
prices.  Copper, Oil, Corn Drop After U.S. Talks Stall; Gold at Record  Copper, oil and grains declined while gold climbed to a
record as a lack of progress in raising the U.S. debt ceiling
boosted concern that the world’s largest economy may default,
hurting industrial commodities and increasing demand for a
haven.  Copper May Drop for Fourth Day on Concern About a U.S. Default  Copper may fall for a fourth day in  London  on concern about
a potential U.S. default after lawmakers failed to agree on
raising the debt ceiling.  MINING:  Amplats Sees Costs Exceeding Target, Above Average Metal Price  Anglo American Platinum Ltd., source of about 40 percent of
world output of the metal, expects costs to exceed its
estimates, and average market prices, after energy charges rose
and deaths at its mines doubled in the first half.  South African Jobs Under Threat as Wage Strikes Near Record (2)  Work stoppages in  South Africa  may reach record levels this
year as unions demand inflation-busting pay increases that
threaten to deter investment and worsen the 25 percent
unemployment rate.  Anglo Platinum’s First-Half Profit Climbs 20% as Prices Gain (1)  Anglo American Platinum Ltd., the source of about 40
percent of world output of the metal, said first-half profit
rose 20 percent as prices gained on demand for jewelry and anti-
pollution devices.  Amplats Sees ‘Multiple’ Deep-Shaft Opportunities in South Africa  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. said it sees “multiple”
deep-shaft opportunities within the next 10- to-20 years in
South Africa, mainly in the Western Limb region.  Fortescue CEO Says Strong Cash Flow is Deferring Fund Raising (1  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest junk-bond
seller, said “very strong” cash flows from high  iron ore 
prices is deferring its need to raise more capital for a $8.4
billion expansion of its operations.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold at $1,600 ‘Fundamentally Justified,’ Franklin’s Land Says  Gold at $1,600 an ounce is a “fundamentally justified
price,” said Steve Land, lead portfolio manager at Franklin
Templeton Investments’ Franklin Gold and Precious metals Fund,
which has $3.8 billion in assets under management.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil Futures Decline as U.S. Debt Impasse Threatens Demand  Palm oil dropped the most in almost two weeks as stalled
U.S. debt-ceiling talks raised concern that the world’s largest
economy may default, threatening the global economic recovery
and slowing demand for commodities.  China  Said to Buy Soybean Oil From  Argentina  for Stockpiling  China, the world’s largest cooking-oil user, bought 80,000
metric tons of soybean oil from Argentina last week, according
to a person with direct knowledge of the transaction.  Wheat Slumps as Russian Exports Erode Demand for U.S., EU Grain  Wheat futures in  Chicago  slumped on speculation importers
of the grain will further shun U.S. and European Union supplies
in favor of Russian and Ukranian inventories. Corn also
declined.  Cotton Output May Climb in India as Farmers Boost Plantings  Cotton production in India, the world’s second-biggest
grower, may climb next year as farmers plant more of the crop
because of high prices, according to the nation’s Cotton
Advisory Board.  India Lifts 2010-11 Cotton Output Estimate to 32.5 Million Bales  India, the world’s second-largest cotton grower, raised its
production estimate for the year ending Sept. 30 to 32.5 million
bales, Textile Commissioner A.B. Joshi told reporters in Mumbai
today after a meeting of the nation’s Cotton Advisory Board.  Japan ’s Food Chain Threat Multiplies as Radiation Spreads (3)  Radiation fallout from the wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant
poses a growing threat to Japan’s food chain as unsafe levels of
cesium found in beef on supermarket shelves were also detected
in more vegetables and the ocean.  SHIPPING:  Higher Ship-Fuel Prices Support Emissions Rules, Clarkson Says  Rising ship-fuel prices are supporting regulations aimed at
cutting the industry’s carbon emissions, according to Clarkson
Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker.  Capesizes at Anchor Climb to 140 From 139, Global Ports Says  The number of capesize ships anchored worldwide rose to 140
last week from 139 a week earlier, Truro, England-based Global
Ports said in a report.  One-Year Capesize Rents Decline Most in 12 Weeks, Clarkson Says  One-year rents for capesize commodity-hauling ships, mostly
used to transport iron ore, fell the most in 12 weeks as fleet
growth outpaced demand, data from Clarkson Research Services
Ltd. showed.  ECONOMIES:  China Orders Rail-Safety Probe, Fires Officials on Fatal Crash  China ordered a two-month inspection of rail safety and
fired three officials after at least 36 people were killed in a
high-speed train crash two days ago.  Geithner Says Framework of Debt-Limit Deal Needed Today (2)  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said he hopes
lawmakers can agree on the framework of a debt-limit agreement
today because the  House of Representatives  must start
deliberations tomorrow to meet the Aug. 2 deadline.  Greece  Sovereign Credit Rating Cut Three Levels by Moody’s (2)  Greece’s credit rating was cut three steps by Moody’s
Investors Service, which said the European Union’s rescue for
the debt-laden nation will cause substantial losses for
investors and amount to a default.  El-Erian Says U.S. Vulnerable to Downgrade, May Avoid Default  The U.S. government may lose its AAA credit rating even if
lawmakers reach a plan to avoid a default, said Mohamed A. El-
Erian, whose Pacific Investment Management Co. is the world’s
largest manager of bond funds.  Republicans, Democrats Prepare Rival Debt-Limit Raise Plans (1)  Republicans and Democrats prepared dueling plans for
raising the U.S. debt ceiling, unable to break a partisan
stalemate over how to tackle the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt
and quell market concerns about a potential default Aug. 2.  Germany Flouts EMU Rules That  Brazil , China Uphold: Euro Credit  Brazil, China,  Mexico  and other so-called emerging
economies would make better European Monetary Union members than
the nations currently sharing the euro, based on the economic
criteria countries are supposed to meet.  Women Controlling Consumer Spending Sparse Among Central Bankers  In the early 19th century, an investor known as the Widow
Borski acquired almost half the shares of the Netherlands’ new
central bank to assist a nation strapped by the Napoleonic wars.  OTHER MARKETS:  Asian Stocks, Treasuries Drop on U.S. Debt Talks; Gold Advances  Asian stocks and oil declined for the first time in five
days, while Treasuries dropped and gold rallied to a record as
U.S. President Barack Obama and Congress failed to reach a deal
on raising the debt limit, intensifying concern the nation will
default.  Franc, Yen Gain as U.S. Debt Impasse Spurs Bids; Euro Declines  Switzerland ’s franc strengthened to a record against the
dollar on demand for the safest assets as U.S. lawmakers failed
to agree on raising the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt ceiling and
Greece’s credit rating was cut.  Asian Currencies Retreat From 14-Year High on U.S. Debt Risk  Asian currencies fell from a 14-year high and stocks
slumped as the threat of a U.S. debt default damped demand for
emerging-market assets.  European Stocks Halt Rally on U.S. Debt Stalemate; Lenders Drop  European stocks halted a four-day rally after President
Barack Obama and Congress failed to reach a deal to raise the
U.S. debt limit, increasing concern that the world’s largest
economy may default. U.S. index futures and Asian equities
retreated.  U.S. Stock Futures Drop After Lawmakers Fail to Reach Debt Deal  U.S. stock futures fell, indicating the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index will drop after rallying within 1.4 percent of a
three-year high, as President Barack Obama and Congress failed
to reach an agreement on raising the federal debt limit,
intensifying concern the nation will default.  Oil Declines After U.S. Lawmakers Fail to Agree on Debt Ceiling  Oil declined for the first time in five days on concern a
failure to reach a deal on raising the U.S. debt limit may cause
the nation to default, threatening the economy of the world’s
biggest crude consumer.  Clinton Assures China That U.S. Will Reach Debt Solution (2)  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  reassured China, the top
holder of American Treasuries, that the U.S. will resolve its
impasse over the debt ceiling and improve the country’s long-
term fiscal outlook.  Egyptian Stocks Drop After Clashes Injure 300 People in Cairo  Egyptian stocks fell to the lowest in more than a week
after clashes that erupted in central Cairo between supporters
and opponents of the ruling military council injured more than
300 people.  SPORTS:  Wenger Wants Crackdown on Illegal Approaches to Players: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Forlan Joins His Forefathers as Uruguay Wins 15th Copa America  Diego Forlan scored twice as Uruguay beat Paraguay 3-0 to
win its record 15th Copa America soccer championship and move
ahead of archrival Argentina.  O’Hair Wins PGA Tour’s Canadian Open to End 12-Tournament Slump  Sean O’Hair  couldn’t hold back the tears after his playoff
win at golf’s Canadian Open, where he ended a season-long slump
in which he failed to earn any prize money in nine of his
previous 12 tournaments.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  