-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline as Lawmakers Wrangle Over Rival Debt Plans

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-25T21:03:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/u-s-stock-futures-decline-after-lawmakers-fail-to-reach-debt-ceiling-deal.html
U.S. stocks retreated, pulling the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down from a two-week high, as
Republicans and Democrats wrangled over separate plans to raise
the federal debt limit and avoid a government default.  Phone companies led losses among 10 groups in the S&P 500,
losing 1.4 percent.  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  slipped 2.1 percent
after reporting a decline in second-quarter profit, hurt by
higher commodity prices. E*Trade Financial Corp. jumped 5.6
percent after agreeing to hire Morgan Stanley to explore a sale.  The S&P 500 fell 0.6 percent to 1,337.43 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  after slumping as much as 1 percent. The index rallied to
within 1.4 percent of a three-year high last week. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  lost 88.36 points, or 0.7 percent, to
12,592.80 today.  “The market is trying to balance the macro risks of the
debt ceiling negotiations and European contagion with good
company earnings,” Rafi Zaman, managing director of global
equities at DuPont Capital Management in Wilmington, Delaware,
said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees about $26
billion. “The market is so volatile and moving depending on
what’s in the forefront.”  Negotiations over the nation’s debt limit have whipsawed
stocks. The S&P 500 jumped 1.6 percent on July 19, the biggest
gain since March, amid optimism President Barack Obama and
congressional Republicans would agree to raise the ceiling
before the Aug. 2 deadline. Stocks fell the next day on concern
a Senate plan to help the nation avoid default faced resistance
from House Republicans.  Support for Greece  U.S. equities rallied last week as  Europe  pledged support
for Greece to end the region’s debt crisis and companies from
Apple Inc. to  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Advanced Micro Devices Inc.
beat earnings projections. The S&P 500 closed at 1,345.02 on
July 22. When the measure climbed to 1,363.61 on April 29, it
was the highest level since June 2008.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  pared its decline to less than 0.1
percent from as much as 1 percent earlier today. Stocks resumed
declines as Senator  Charles Schumer  criticized House Speaker
John Boehner’s two-step plan to cut the federal deficit, fueling
concern lawmakers were no closer to a compromise. The Republican
plan would allow a debt-limit increase of $1 trillion, to be
followed later by about $1.6 trillion, while larger spending
cuts would be required.  ‘Far From Perfect’  “This plan is far from perfect, but it adheres to our
principles of ensuring that spending cuts are greater than any
debt hike and it includes no tax increases,” Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, said in a statement.  Top Senate Democrat Harry Reid readied a separate plan
which would hand Obama the full $2.4 trillion in additional
borrowing authority he has requested tied to $2.7 trillion in
spending cuts that would leave Medicare and Medicaid untouched.  Both S&P and Moody’s are weighing a downgrade of the U.S.
credit rating. Even if the country defaults on some obligations
after Aug. 2 and pays bondholders, S&P said short- and long-term
interest rates would rise by 0.50 percentage point and 1 point,
respectively.  “Missing the Aug. 2 deadline would be a serious issue and
could result in a ratings downgrade,”  Larry Peruzzi , senior
equity trader at Cabrera Capital Markets Inc. in Boston, wrote
in an e-mail. “Though some politicians’ comments this morning
are giving markets a sliver of hope that they actually get it
done.”  Senate  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, said investors
should “chill out” and not worry that Congress will allow a
default to occur.  “I would sort of chill out and not worry so much anymore
about the debt-ceiling issue,” Corker said on CNBC. “We have a
lot of things that we know will keep us from ever defaulting on
our debt.”  Earnings Support  The  S&P 500  erased 81 percent of its loss since April 29
through last week as corporate profits topped analyst estimates.
Since July 11, 83 percent of S&P 500 companies that released
quarterly results beat the average analyst earnings estimate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Between July 20 and
July 22, analysts boosted estimates for S&P 500 income during
the final three months of 2011 by 2.3 percent. That’s the
biggest two-day increase for the quarter
after the current one in data going back to 2006.  ‘Cloud of Uncertainty’  “There are great companies that are making a ton of money
underneath this cloud of uncertainty from the debt ceiling
debate,”  Frank Ingarra , who helps manage the CAN SLIM Select
Growth Fund at Greenwich, Connecticut-based NorthCoast Asset
Management LLC, said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees
$1.5 billion. “Everyone’s conflicted over this politicking and
that’s why we’re oscillating.”                      The S&P 500
Telecommunication Services Index sank 1.4 percent, the most
among 10 industries within the S&P 500.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) 
dropped 4.4 percent to $26.67. The maker of the BlackBerry
smartphone said it’s cutting 2,000 positions and Chief Operating
Officer Don Morrison, currently on temporary medical leave, is
planning to retire after 10 years with the company.  A gauge of consumer staples companies retreated 1 percent.
Kimberly-Clark fell 2.1 percent to $66.48. The maker of Scott
toilet paper and Huggies diapers said net income fell 18
percent. Chief Executive Officer Tom Falk is raising prices on
most items the company sells in  North America  to make up for
rising costs for pulp, oil and other raw materials. In April, it
more than doubled its estimate for raw materials expense
inflation for this year.  Lorillard, Kroger  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  fell 4.5 percent to $107.29. The cigarette
maker reported second-quarter sales of $1.16 billion, missing
the average analyst estimate of $1.17 billion in a Bloomberg
survey.  Kroger Co. (KR)  declined 1.9 percent to $24.82, while  Safeway
Inc. (SWY)  slipped 2.1 percent to $20.50. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut
its recommendation on the grocers to “sell” from “neutral,”
citing the possibility of accelerating inflation.  Financial stocks lost 0.8 percent as a group. Bank of
America dropped 1.2 percent to $10.01, while  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  slumped 1.2 percent to $41.69.  Utility companies rose 0.3 percent for the biggest gain
among 10 groups in the S&P 500.  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)  climbed 2.7
percent to $25.41 after being upgraded to “buy” from
“neutral” at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   E*Trade rallied 5.6 percent to $16.52. The online brokerage
plans to hire Morgan Stanley to explore a sale after its largest
shareholder, Citadel LLC, said the company needed to take action
to reverse “catastrophic losses” for investors.  The board of  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  plans to discuss a
possible bid for E*Trade, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing people familiar with the matter. Kim Hillyer, a
spokeswoman for TD Ameritrade, said it was the company’s
practice not to comment on rumors or speculation. Ameritrade
added 1.8 percent to $19.96.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  