-- 
U.S. Veterans Agency Clears Apple’s IPads, IPhones for Workers

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-07-25T20:03:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/u-s-veterans-agency-clears-apple-s-ipads-iphones-for-workers.html
The U.S. Veterans Affairs Department
plans to let its employees use  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones and iPads to
conduct official tasks, the department’s chief information
officer said today.  The agency, which employs 330,000 people, is conducting a
pilot project with the two Apple devices, with a goal of letting
employees use their personal iPhones and iPads for work by Oct.
1, CIO Roger Baker said during a conference call with reporters.
The department currently lets workers access its networks using
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s BlackBerry.  The VA’s work with the iPhone and iPad is part of a trend
among U.S. government employees to adopt the Apple products for
official use. The BlackBerry, federal agencies’ smartphone of
choice since 2001 because of its security features, has come
under pressure as government workers gravitate toward the
iPhone, iPad and devices using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  The  House of Representatives ,  Federal Aviation
Administration  and U.S. Army are among those testing technology
that would let employees perform official tasks securely on the
iPhone, iPad and other gadgets.  The veterans agency eventually will buy thousands of
iPhones and iPads, either at the national level or through local
VA offices, Baker said, without providing an exact number.
Agency employees who own personal iPhones and iPads will be able
to use their devices for work purposes, he said.  VA employees initially will be allowed to use the iPhone
and iPad for administrative tasks including e-mail, Baker said.
They also will be able to use the devices to access patient data
and medical records, Baker said, adding that he didn’t know if
that feature would be available by Oct. 1.  The VA operates 153 hospitals and more than 800 outpatient
clinics.  “There are a ton of medical applications that have been
developed in the private sector for those devices,” Baker said
in an interview after the conference call. “There’s a demand
for those from our clinicians.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  