-- 
U.S. Can Avoid Default Until September: Silvia

-- B y   J i l l i a n   B e r m a n   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-07-25T19:21:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/u-s-can-avoid-default-at-least-until-september-silvia-says.html
The U.S. government can avoid a
default for at least a month after the Aug. 2 deadline to lift
the debt ceiling set by the Treasury Department, said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC.  “The Federal Reserve and the Treasury can work together to
generate enough cash probably for the next two or three months
to avoid any kind of automatic default on the Treasury debt,”
Silvia, who is based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “There’s a way of getting around this issue for at least
another month or two.”  Political party leaders are preparing dueling plans for
raising the U.S. debt ceiling, unable to break a partisan
stalemate over how to tackle the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt by
Aug. 2. That is the date when the Treasury Department says its
borrowing authority will end.  Greater-than-forecast  tax revenue  might give the Treasury
until Aug. 10 before it runs out of cash,  Barclays Capital  said
in a report last week.  “Tax-receipt inflows from July 14 to date have been
considerably stronger than we were expecting,” New York-based
Barclays analysts, including Ajay Rajadhyaksha, said.  Inflows over the five-day period from July 14 were about
$14 billion higher than Barclays had foreseen, and outlays were
about $1 billion less, according to the report.  Two-Step Plan  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, told party
members he plans to force action on a two-step debt-limit
extension that would provide a $1 trillion, shorter term
increase than President  Barack Obama  has requested, defying a
veto threat.  Harry Reid , the Senate’s top Democrat, prepared his own
proposal, which would hand Obama the full $2.4 trillion in
additional borrowing authority he has requested -- enough to
last through the 2012 elections -- tied to a $2.7 trillion
package of spending cuts, according to a Senate Democratic aide.  “It’s very unlikely that we’re going to default,” Silvia
said. The Treasury already has “ cash flow  that’s available” to
last two weeks after Aug. 2, before resorting to any special
measures.  Even if the two parties fail to reach an agreement to raise
the debt ceiling in time, officials will still be able to stave
off a default for at least a month, Silvia said. Bond investors
have realized they will probably still get paid in the event the
impasse goes past the deadline.  Social Security  Regarding entitlement programs like Social Security and
Medicare, Silvia said, “there’s probably enough cash to make
those payments as well.”  “It really comes down to who’s third or fourth in line and
it’s the federal government contractors and some federal
government employees that may have some temporary furloughs,”
he said.  Treasury 30-year yields increased five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 4.31 percent at 3:19 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 4.34
percent, the highest level since July 8.  The  Federal Reserve  may have the legal authority to extend
a line of credit to the Treasury, said Sung Won Sohn, an
economics professor at California State University-Channel
Islands. He said any such  credit line  would range from $10
billion to $30 billion -- enough to tide the government over for
a few days.  Credit Strains  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist for JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said a Fed contingency plan could allow banks and other
financial institutions to temporarily lend their  Treasury
securities  to the Fed in exchange for cash. Such a move would be
aimed at easing any credit strains caused by a default, he said.  “In general, I think they’d want to temporarily substitute
the Fed’s credit in place of the Treasury’s credit,” Feroli
said.  Silvia cautioned that there is still a risk that the U.S.
will lose its AAA debt rating.  “OK you’ve got a deal, the debt ceiling’s raised -- that’s
not the issue,” he said. “The issue is what are the details
behind that, that alter the long-term trend in terms of federal
spending and the deficit, and that’s what the credit agencies
are talking about.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jillian Berman in  Washington  at 
 jberman13@bloomberg.net ,
Betty Liu in  New York  at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  