-- 
UAW Says Labor Costs to Stay Similar at GM, Ford, Chrysler

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-07-25T17:48:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/uaw-says-labor-costs-to-stay-similar-at-gm-ford-and-chrysler.html
The  United Auto Workers  intends to
keep labor costs comparable in its contract negotiations with
 General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC,
President  Bob King  said today.  “We’re not going to advantage or disadvantage one company
versus another,” King told reporters at Chrysler’s  Auburn
Hills , Michigan, headquarters for the start of labor talks with
the automaker majority-owned by  Fiat SpA. (F)  “We want them to be
competing on the basis of product and design and quality.”  Hourly workers at Chrysler and GM, as part of U.S-backed
bankruptcies in 2009, agreed not to strike over wages and
benefits during this year’s contract talks. Ford, based in
Dearborn, Michigan, didn’t seek a U.S. bailout and UAW members
at the company rejected a strike ban and arbitration.  The UAW has helped Chrysler revamp its operations, Al Iacobelli, the automaker’s vice president of employee relations,
told reporters.  “The objective is to keep it right and not fall back into
our old ways of making ourselves uncompetitive,” he said.  The current UAW contracts at the automakers expire Sept.
14. King has said workers must be rewarded for the $7,000 to
$30,000 in concessions they each gave since 2005 to help the
automakers survive.  Ford, Chrysler and Detroit-based GM combined to earn more
than $6 billion in the first quarter. Last year, GM earned $6.17
billion. Ford had net income of $6.56 billion in 2010, the most
in 11 years.  Chrysler Profit  Chrysler posted a first-quarter profit of $116 million, its
first since emerging from bankruptcy. The company has forecast a
full-year profit of as much as $500 million for 2011. The
automaker reported a net loss of $652 million last year.  Ford said on a website that it spends $58 an hour to
provide wages and benefits to UAW members, $8 more than the
average labor costs at the mostly nonunion U.S. factories of
foreign automakers such as  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  Chrysler has said
its hourly labor costs are about $50. Kristin Dziczek, an
analyst at the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan, estimates GM’s hourly labor costs at $56.  Ford is in the worst position among the companies because
it’s the only one facing the possibility of a strike in the
talks, analysts such as Dziczek have said. Unresolved issues at
GM and Chrysler are subject to binding arbitration.  Profit Sharing  Chrysler doesn’t want to see an increase in its hourly
labor costs and is interested in creating a better profit-
sharing equation for hourly workers, according to a person
familiar with the company’s thinking.  Chrysler’s current profit-sharing system is complex and not
aligned with the company’s goals, according to this person, who
was not authorized to speak about the issue publicly. Some new
metrics may include attendance, quality, productivity and a more
transparent measure of profit, the person said.  The automaker sees active health-care costs as a way to
find savings, possibly to pay for increases in variable pay, the
person said.  King said health care is an area to find savings “that
won’t take a penny” from members.  “That’s the kind of approach we’ll have on all of the
issues,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  