-- 
Ukraine Ratings to Improve If Utility Bills Rise, Citigroup Says

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-07-25T11:08:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/ukraine-ratings-to-improve-if-utility-bills-rise-citigroup-says.html
Ukraine’s credit ratings may be
raised if the government increases utility prices to meet the
International Monetary Fund’s demands, Citigroup Inc. said.  Increasing utility bills, including natural- gas prices  for
consumers, is the only obstacle delaying the third payment of
the country’s $15.6 billion bailout from the Washington-based
IMF, Citigroup said today in an e-mailed report to clients.  “A hike in gas tariffs could unlock IMF financing and
trigger a rating upgrade,” Natalia Novikova, a Moscow-based
analyst for Citigroup, said in the report.  The IMF has withheld payments to Ukraine since March
because of delays in approving steps to rein in the  budget
deficit , which swelled to 7.9 percent of gross domestic product
last year.  Fitch Ratings  changed the outlook on Ukraine’s debt
rating to positive from stable last week after parliament
changed the nation’s pension law, leaving utility prices as the
only outstanding IMF demand.  Natural-gas prices are central to Ukraine’s effort to
narrow the deficit because below-market rates contribute to
losses at the state-owned gas company.  Inflation probably won’t exceed 12 percent this year, even
with a 20 percent to 30 percent increase in gas prices,
according to Novikova.  Ukraine’s economy “performed strongly” in the first half
of the year, the analyst said. GDP will probably grow 4.8
percent in 2011, according to Citibank.  The central bank’s steps to tighten bank liquidity and the
monetary base will help increase demand for the hryvnia,
Ukraine’s currency, in the short term and “help prevent further
acceleration of  core inflation ,” the bank said.  While the hryvnia will strengthen slightly this month and
in August because of seasonal conditions, it will probably
decline to 8.2 per dollar year-end after large payments on
foreign debt, according to Citigroup. It traded at 7.994 as of
12:04 p.m. today in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  