-- 
Hungary to Keep Benchmark Rate Unchanged as Debt Turmoil Roils Currency

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-07-26T08:49:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/hungary-to-leave-interest-rates-unchanged-as-debt-turmoil-roils-currency.html
Hungarian policy makers will
probably leave the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a sixth
month as the sovereign debt crisis weakens the forint and
increases the country’s credit risk.  The  Magyar Nemzeti  Bank will keep the two-week deposit rate
at 6 percent today, according to all 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The decision will be announced at 2 p.m. in Budapest,
with central bank President Andras Simor commenting at 3 p.m.  The forint fell to a record low against the Swiss franc, in
which most Hungarian mortgages are denominated, last week as the
U.S. and  Europe  struggled to resolve their debt crises. Policy
makers are likely to forego a rate cut even as inflation slows
to avoid fueling the currency’s decline, which would increase
costs for borrowers and may harm economic growth and financial
stability.  “Despite the sluggish economic recovery, the global market
environment does not allow any room for easing,”  Gaelle Blanchard , a London-based economist at Societe Generale SA, said
in an e-mail today. “The central bank is indeed closely
watching financial markets and the  risk premium  on Hungarian
assets.”  Forint Drops  The forint weakened 5.6 percent against the Swiss franc in
July, dropping as low as 238.5 per franc on July 18. It traded
at 230.5 at 8:48 a.m. today. OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, fell 7.2 percent this month. Five-year credit-default
swaps, used to protect against non-payment or speculate on a
borrowers’ creditworthiness, traded at 297 basis points
yesterday, compared with a 2011 low of 239 on May 4.  Investors have scaled back bets on a Hungarian rate
increase over the past two months. The three-month forward rate
agreement traded 0.06 basis points higher than the benchmark
rate today, compared with 0.195 on May 26. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The U.S. faces a default on Aug. 2 unless politicians agree
to raise the debt ceiling. European Union leaders agreed July 21
on a second rescue package for  Greece  and expanded the region’s
bailout mechanism to offer protection to other euro-region
nations to prevent the debt crisis from spreading. The plan for
Greece includes contributions from investors, which rating
companies say would be a technical default.  Swiss Franc Mortgages  The Swiss franc rose as the euro and dollar weakened,
hurting Hungarian homeowners amid rising monthly payments on
foreign-currency loans and adding to lenders’ risk which face
rising defaults on loans. Sixty-four percent of Hungarian
household mortgages were denominated in foreign currencies as of
May 31, according to the central bank.  “The large amount of foreign-currency lending to
households underpins the rating agency’s expectation that asset
quality will deteriorate further, as these borrowers’ ability to
service their debt has weakened significantly following the more
than 30 percent depreciation of the forint against the Swiss
franc in recent years,” Simone Zampa, a Vice President at
Moody’s Investors Service, said in an e-mailed report today.  Moody’s expects Hungarian lenders’ profitability to be
“weak” and the operating environment to remain “uncertain”
in the next 12 to 18 months.  A strong franc may also cut economic growth by as much as
0.5 percentage point, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s chief of
staff,  Mihaly Varga , said July 21.  Retail Sales Rise  Retail sales rose 0.7 percent in May from the year-ago
period, the most in eight months, the statistics office in
Budapest said in an e-mail today. A slump in domestic demand has
slowed the economy’s export-led recovery from recession and
retail sales may remain “soft” in 2011, Gabor Ambrus, a
London-based economist at 4Cast Ltd., said by e-mail today.  The forint’s weakness and the threat to financial stability
from rising loan defaults will probably outweigh slowing
inflation in today’s rate decision, Gillian Edgeworth, chief
economist for emerging Europe at UniCredit SpA in  London , said
in a July 24 note to clients.  The inflation rate fell to 3.5 percent in June, the lowest
since April 2009, from 3.9 percent in May. Policy makers said in
June that inflation would slow to their target of 3 percent by
the end of next year if the benchmark rate remains at 6 percent.  “We expect unchanged rates as the strong Swiss franc is
probably offsetting the dovish inflation release,” Edgeworth
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  