-- 
UN Hosts Emergency Talks on East Africa’s Worst Drought in 60 Years

-- B y   K a r l   M a i e r
-- 
2011-07-25T07:16:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/united-nations-food-agency-hosts-emergency-talks-on-east-african-drought.html
The  United Nations  Food and
Agricultural Organization is hosting emergency talks today to
discuss East Africa’s worst drought in 60 years that has left
more than 11 million people needing food aid.  The one-day meeting was called by  France , the current head
of the Group of 20 countries, the Rome-based FAO said on its
 website . The conference won’t seek aid pledges and instead
“will look at possible measures to address the crisis,” the
FAO said.  The UN has declared a famine in two regions of southern
Somalia amid drought and conflict that have left 3.7 million
people, almost half the country’s population, in need of
humanitarian assistance. Famine in the Bakool and Lower Shabelle
regions is the worst food-security crisis in the Horn of Africa
nation since 1992, when 300,000 people died, according to Action
Against Hunger, a New York-based humanitarian organization.  Aid organizations currently can’t reach more than 2 million
people in southern Somalia, the head of the  World Food
Programme ,  Josette Sheeran , said yesterday in Nairobi,  Kenya ’s
capital. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said the international
community has pledged about half of the $1.6 billion needed to
address the crisis, the  UN News Agency  reported on July 22.  The drought is affecting East African nations including
Ethiopia and Kenya. The failure of crops and conflict between
al-Shabaab insurgents and the Somali government has forced
almost 800,000 refugees to flee to neighboring countries, a
fifth of them since the beginning of 2011, according to the UN.  A famine is declared when malnutrition rates among children
exceed 30 percent; more than two people per 10,000 die per day;
and people are unable to access food and other basic
necessities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karl Maier  in  Rome  at 
 Kmaier2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 