-- 
Unum Chief Watjen Says Junk ‘Too Hot,’ Bets on Utility Debt

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-07-25T21:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/unum-chief-watjen-says-junk-too-hot-as-yields-fall-bets-on-utility-debt.html
Unum Group (UNM)  Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Watjen is shying away from adding  junk bonds  to the
insurer’s investment portfolio after yields plummeted.  “There are times like now maybe where high-yield gets too
hot,” Watjen, whose company holds about $40 billion of fixed-
maturity securities, said today in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York. “You just can’t get enough return in
the sector to justify investing, given the risk parameters of
that asset class.”  Yields on speculative-grade debt tumbled to a record low of
7.19 percent in May before rising to 7.45 percent as of July 22,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. That
compares with an average borrowing cost of 12.6 percent on
similarly rated companies two years earlier, the data show.  Unum, the largest U.S. disability insurer, has about 7
percent of fixed-maturity assets in junk debt. The Chattanooga,
Tennessee-based company’s portfolio is composed mainly of
corporate bonds, including about $9.7 billion of debt issued by
utilities as of March 31, compared with $8.8 billion at the end
of 2009. Watjen said he favors utilities because they present
the right value and duration for Unum.  “We’re happy with both the credit quality of the utility
space in general, and obviously as an issuer they tend to be
issuing bonds that are more consistent with our asset-liability
management needs,” Watjen said. “That’s why you see it growing
a little bit.” Disability insurers buy bonds with maturities of
20 or 30 years to fund claims payments decades into the future.  ‘Awful Lot of Money’  High-yield borrowers have been selling debt at the fastest
pace ever during the past two years, as the  Federal Reserve ’s
record monetary stimulus pushes investors toward riskier assets
while creating lower borrowing costs. High-yield, high-risk, or
junk, borrowers are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  “There’s an awful lot of money chasing too few quality
investments,” Watjen said.  Speculative-grade issuance has reached $187.2 billion this
year compared with about $130.2 billion the same period in 2010.
Sales in all of last year were about $287 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Unum slipped 25 cents to $25.30 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The firm has gained 4.5
percent this year, compared with the 7.6 percent fall of the 24-
company KBW Insurance Index.  Unum has reported increases in earnings-per-share in three
straight quarters. The company is buying back stock as a U.S.
unemployment rate of more than 9 percent crimps the insurer’s
ability to add policyholders and increase revenue.  “We’re still waiting to see some signs of improvement, but
that obviously hasn’t been the case,” Watjen said of hiring in
the U.S. “Unfortunately, the top line is a struggle for us and
our whole industry, actually.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 