-- 
Muslim Brotherhood Doesn’t Pose Threat to Democracy, Egyptian General Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-07-26T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/muslim-brotherhood-doesn-t-threaten-egypt-military-leader-says.html
A member of  Egypt ’s ruling military
council said fears that the Muslim Brotherhood poses a threat to
the country’s emerging democracy are exaggerated and that the
group has a right to participate in political life.  “They are not seeking to have a religious country,” said
Major General Mohamed Said Elassar, a member of the Supreme
Council of the Armed Forces that took control when ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak  ceded authority. “They have to have the
same rights as all Egyptians.”  Elassar assured an audience yesterday at the U.S. Institute
of Peace, a government-funded organization in  Washington , that
the military council is eager to hand over authority to civilian
parliament and president to be elected later this year.  The military council, in the meantime, remains committed to
the 1979 Camp David Accords with  Israel , said Elassar, who is
assistant to Egypt’s defense minister and is leading a military
delegation in Washington for semi-annual meetings at the
Pentagon, the State Department and on  Capitol Hill .  Still, he said, newly elected officials must respond to
public sentiment in Egypt. The U.S., Israel and the
international community will need to adjust to changes in the
region and work under the new circumstances to resolve
outstanding disputes involving Israel, the Palestinians, Syria
and Lebanon, Elassar said.  The dramatic shifts in authority in Egypt have the Obama
administration and other governments struggling to assess and
adjust their relations with a country that has been a linchpin
in efforts to achieve a regional peace agreement.  Military Delegation  The Egyptian delegation is making its first visit to the
U.S. since the Supreme Council assumed interim control from
Mubarak in February. The U.S. has provided Egypt about $1.5
billion a year in aid, including $1.3 billion for the military.  “There is a sense in Egypt that the gains of the
revolution may be slipping away, and the political process is in
danger of failing,” said Charles Dunne, senior program manager
for the  Middle East  and North Africa for Freedom House, a human
rights advocacy group based in Washington.  Egypt’s military authorities have “increasingly relied
upon time-worn strategies to repress and delegitimize” growing
public grievances, Dunne wrote in a July 15 analysis.  Elassar expressed frustration at complaints by critics --
including some protesters who’ve returned to Cairo’s  Tahrir
Square  -- that the council isn’t responsive to their demands and
that economic and social reforms are happening too slowly.  ‘Big Achievements’  “It is not slow,” said Elassar. He cited “big
achievements” in the past six months since protests began in
January. “Every group and every person has his agenda and has
his demands.”  “No government in the world can respond to all these
contradictory demands,” he said. “We are trying.”  The Supreme Council earlier this month postponed plans for
September parliamentary elections in response to protesters
concerned a quick election would favor established forces, such
as the Muslim Brotherhood, ahead of newly forming groups. The
council said last week the new date would be announced in
September and occur before the end of the year.  Elassar affirmed the council’s rejection of international
calls to allow foreign election observers to monitor the
balloting. He said only Egyptian organizations and foreign
“visitors” would be allowed to observe the polling.  “Visitors can visit the election facilities and they can
see by their own eyes, but not on a monitoring or observation
basis,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 