-- 
Vatican Recalls Irish Ambassador Amid Allegations on Sex-Abuse Reporting

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-07-25T12:06:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/vatican-recalls-irish-ambassador-amid-allegations-on-sex-abuse-reporting.html
The Vatican recalled its ambassador
to Ireland after Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  accused the hierarchy
of the Roman Catholic Church of attempting to hinder a probe
into allegations of child sex-abuse by priests.  After the publication of the so-called Cloyne report by the
Irish government on July 13 “and in particular, given the
reactions that followed it, the secretary of state has recalled
the Papal Nuncio in Ireland, Giuseppe Leanza, for
consultation,” the Vatican said in a  statement  on its website
today.  The Irish government had asked for a quick response from
the Vatican on the church’s handling of allegations against 33
clerics of sexual abuse of children in the Cloyne diocese in
southern Ireland between 1996 and 2009. Kenny said on July 20
the report “exposes an attempt by the  Holy See  to frustrate”
an investigation of sex crimes by Roman Catholic clergy.  The official report shows the “elitism, the narcissism
that dominate the culture of the Vatican to this day,” Kenny
told parliament in Dublin.  The Vatican pledged to respond “expediently” to the
report, spokesman  Federico Lombardi  said in an e-mail the day
after Kenny’s remarks.  “The decision to recall the Papal Nuncio to the Vatican
for consultations is a matter for the Holy See,” Ireland’s
foreign ministry said in an e-mailed statement. “The government
is awaiting the response of the Holy See to the recent report
into the Catholic Diocese of Cloyne and it is to be expected
that the Vatican would wish to consult in depth with the Nuncio
on its response.”  Ireland, where 85 percent of the population is Catholic,
has been rocked by a series of child sex-abuse scandals
involving priests in recent years. The government is looking for
ways to compensate victims of abuse by priests. Education
Minister Ruairi Quinn said religious congregations and the state
must move to a 50-50 deal on paying an estimated 1.36 billion
euros ($1.95 billion) in claims by sex-abuse victims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 