-- 
Chavez Says Cancer-Free After Chemotherapy

-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 
2011-07-25T13:49:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/venezuela-s-chavez-says-cancer-free-after-cuba-chemotherapy-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said that medical tests while undergoing chemotherapy treatment
in Cuba last week showed no signs of cancer in his body.  “This is all like a rebirth for me,” Chavez said on state
television yesterday. “This doesn’t mean there is no risk, no.
Cells come and go in a constant battle.”  Chavez unexpectedly returned from the Caribbean island on
the night of July 23 and immediately congratulated his cabinet
and Vice President Elias Jaua. Speaking on state television from
Caracas airport, he expressed “personal recognition and my
political and moral support” for Jaua.  Chavez’s return and show of support for his ministers were
needed to prevent the opposition and his allies from reaping
political benefit amid his ill health and absence, said
Margarita Lopez Maya, a professor of history at the Central
University of  Venezuela .  “With all the currents inside the government, it’s
important that the boss show up to calm down the gossip and the
pushing and shoving between groups,” Lopez Maya said in a phone
interview from Caracas yesterday.  Chavez flew to Cuba on July 16 to receive treatment for an
undisclosed form of cancer, saying he would be back “in a few
days.” The socialist leader underwent surgery in Cuba on June
20 to remove a baseball-sized tumor discovered by doctors during
a June 11 operation on an abscess.  During his speech from the airport, Chavez, 56, said he was
subjected to “intense studies” and received several sessions
of chemotherapy throughout the week. The treatment ended July
22, Chavez said, adding that although his fight will be long and
“hard,” he is confident he will overcome the disease.  ‘Great Doctor’  Fidel Castro , whom he described as the “great doctor,”
had told him: “You have nothing,” Chavez said yesterday.  Chavez plans to run for a third six-year term as president
in elections scheduled for next year,  Correo del Orinoco
reported  today, citing the Venezuelan leader. He intends to
remain at the forefront of his socialist revolution until 2031,
the Caracas-based state-run newspaper quoted him as saying.  Chavez returned in time for yesterday’s celebrations of the
anniversary of the birth of South American liberator  Simon
Bolivar , who was born in 1783 and whom Chavez frequently invokes
in his speeches.  “Simon Bolivar lives in us, in this land, in this sky, in
these walls, in this plaza, in this Caracas, in this homeland,”
Chavez said in the speech broadcast by state television.
“Bolivar lives more now than ever.”  Before departing for his latest round of treatment in Cuba,
Chavez delegated some powers to his ministers and rejected
demands from his opponents to cede power during his absence.  “He used to drink 40 cups of coffee every day, which means
he didn’t sleep,” Lopez Maya said. “Now he’s disintoxicated.
That will introduce changes in the government’s work. Now he is
forced to delegate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  