-- 
Voodoo Power, Fetishes, Spirits Haunt Paris Exhibition: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-07-25T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/voodoo-power-fetishes-spirits-haunt-paris-exhibition-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Bondage means different things to
different people.  For believers in Voodoo it’s not a sexual fantasy. They use
it on fetishes to cast spells or to protect themselves against
evil spirits.  About 100 African fetishes are on view at the  Fondation
Cartier  in Paris. They come from the collection of the late
Jacques Kerchache, a dealer and connoisseur of what used to be
known as primitive art.  Kerchache was instrumental in founding the  Musee du Quai
Branly , opened in 2006, that displays objects from  Africa ,
Oceania and the Americas as works of art, not as ethnological
specimens. Some anthropologists demurred, yet the public
appreciates the theatrical presentation, and the museum has
become a popular attraction.  The Fondation Cartier follows the museum’s example. On the
ground floor, the largest sculptures are placed in front of
stylized houses, like guardians keeping away evil spirits.  In the low-lit basement, the smaller statuettes are
elegantly displayed in glass cubes like rare books or jewelry.
No label tells you where they come from and what they mean: The
organizers want you to have a purely aesthetic experience.  That approach is utterly different from the original
purpose for which the figures were created. They were cult
objects and not meant to be beautiful. Some are hideous.  Spirit World  Most of them come from the ancient kingdom of Dahomey, the
predecessor of what is now  Benin  on the coast of West Africa.
Here Vaudou or Vodun, as the organizers spell it, the belief in
a world of invisible yet potent spirits, was a kind of state
religion and a pillar of royal power.  Through the slave trade in the 17th and 18th centuries, the
cult was brought to the Caribbean where it shed the fetishes
and, instead, absorbed Christian elements.  The fetish -- bocio, or empowered corpse, in the language
of the Fon tribe -- is believed to function as a mediator
between the visible and the spiritual world. There are different
kinds in the exhibition.  The most common is the bla-bocio, whose surface has been
tightly bound with cord, chains, strips of animal hide or other
wrapping materials.  The bondage can have a positive or negative effect. Neck
bindings are supposed to cause speechlessness, chest bindings
lead to suffocation, bindings around the lower abdomen to bring
about impotence.  On the other hand, pregnant women often wear cords around
their hips as a protection against miscarriage.  Two Heads  Fetishes of another type have holes into which pegs or pins
are inserted. Depending on the incantation, the peg may promote
well-being or, conversely, lead to  memory loss  and asphyxiation.  A number of fetishes have two heads or other physical
abnormalities. Some are covered with clay, shells, bones or a
layer of sacrificial blood, each with magical significance.  In 1972, Mathieu Kerekou, president of Benin and a true
believer in Marxism-Leninism, declared war on Voodoo. Afraid to
fall victim himself to a magic spell, he appointed a wizard as
“People’s Commissar for Fetish Cultures.”  Predictably, the War on Voodoo proved no more successful
than the War on Terror and the War on Drugs.  “Vaudou” runs through Sept. 25 at the Fondation Cartier,
261 Boulevard Raspail, Paris. Information:
 http://www.fondation.cartier.com  or +33-1-4218-5650.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or. 