-- 
Wall Street Helps Boehner Boost Fundraising as House Speaker

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-07-25T04:00:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/wall-street-helps-boehner-boost-fundraising-as-house-speaker.html
Since January, U.S. House Speaker
 John Boehner  has raised $6.6 million for his campaign committee,
six times more than the Ohio Republican received during the same
period two years ago when he was the chamber’s minority leader.  Three of the five biggest sources of Boehner’s campaign
cash this year are employees of three Wall Street investment
houses, a shift from the 2010 election cycle when such
contributors weren’t ranked among his top 10 donors.  Employees at the New York hedge fund Paulson & Co.
contributed $61,050 to Boehner’s campaign account, more than any
other company. New York-based Moore Capital Management LLP
employees gave $53,000, while those at  Cantor Fitzgerald  LP
donated $45,000.  No one from any of those companies donated to Boehner for
his 2010 re-election campaign, according to the  Center for
Responsive Politics , a Washington-based research group that
tracks political money.  Republican consultant Eddie Mahe said he had “no doubt”
 Wall Street  has been betting that the House Republican majority
would lead the effort to “repeal or at least modify” the
revised financial regulations enacted last year.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co.,  Patrick
Clifford , a spokesman for Moore Capital, and Bob Hubbell, a
spokesman for New York-based Cantor Fitzgerald, all declined to
comment on campaign donations.  Republican Opposition  Boehner and House Republicans last year opposed passage of
the revamped rules for the financial industry, which was blamed
for triggering the worst economic downturn since the Great
Depression.  President  Barack Obama  signed those new rules into law a
year ago this month. Since taking control of the House, the
Republican majority has moved to undo parts of the legislation,
although the Democratic Senate has prevented major changes.  Boehner received most of the donations from Paulson & Co.,
 Moore Capital  and Cantor Fitzgerald in June, the same month the
House voted along party lines to cut the budget of the  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission , which is writing most of the new
derivatives rules, and the  House Appropriations Committee  voted
to limit funding for the new consumer protection bureau.  House Republicans have also opposed Democratic efforts to
tax carried interest, the share of profits paid to asset
managers, as ordinary income rather than at the lower capital
gains rate.  Carried Interest  Some Democrats, including Representative Sander Levin of
Michigan, are promoting that tax change as part of legislation
to reduce the deficit and raise the U.S. debt limit.  Levin’s brother and fellow  Michigan  Democrat, Senator  Carl Levin , endorsed the proposal in a floor speech last month.  “One example of the kind of tax breaks and tax loopholes
that we Democrats seek to change is the unconscionable tax break
given to hedge fund managers,” he said. “Recognizing carried
interest for what it is would increase tax fairness for working
Americans who pay their fair share of taxes. They have the right
to expect that the wealthy do the same.”  Officials of both Paulson & Co. and Moore Capital sit on
the board of directors of the hedge funds’ Washington-based
trade group, the Managed Funds Association, which spent $2
million in the first six months of this year lobbying Congress
on financial regulations and other issue, according to its
lobbying disclosure report.  Cory Fritz, a spokesman for Boehner’s PAC, didn’t respond
to requests for comment.  Securities Industry  In 2009-10, the combined giving from the securities
industry made it Boehner’s biggest business-sector donor -- with
$353,050 in contributions, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group.  Employees in the securities and investment industry, the
biggest corporate source of campaign cash for federal
candidates, have given 52 percent of their money to Republicans
this year, according to the center. Hedge fund employees have
given 56 percent to the Republicans.  “There’s no better fundraising strategy than having power,
and Boehner obviously has a lot of it,’ said  Bill Allison ,
editorial director for the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-
based watchdog group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 