-- 
Asian Currencies Retreat From 14-Year High on U.S. Debt Default Concerns

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   C h i e n   M i   W o n g
-- 
2011-07-25T09:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/won-ringgit-lead-drop-in-asian-currencies-on-u-s-debt-default-concern.html
Asian currencies fell from a 14-year
high and stocks slumped as the threat of a U.S. debt default
damped demand for emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies, dropped after U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday he hoped lawmakers
can agree to a new debt limit before an Aug. 2 deadline. The
South Korean won declined from a three-year high on speculation
importers were taking advantage of recent gains to settle bills.  “Given that Asian currencies have appreciated a fair bit
and because of the debt overhang issue in the U.S., investors
will continue to be cautious,” said Puay Yeong Goh, a currency
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG. in  Singapore . “The trade
on Asian currencies will continue to be defensive.”  The Asia Dollar Index dropped 0.1 percent to 119.71. The
won weakened 0.4 percent to 1,056.26 per dollar at the 3 p.m.
close in Seoul and  Malaysia ’s ringgit fell 0.1 percent to 2.9733,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  President  Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  are
in a stalemate over how to increase the debt ceiling, a step
needed for the U.S. to keep servicing its borrowings. Geithner
said two types of plans are being discussed: One is a
“comprehensive, balanced” plan including spending cuts and
“tax reform that would generate revenue.” The other would put
in place “some upfront savings, but then establish a special
committee with exceptional powers that could legislate
quickly,” he said.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional shares slid 0.9
percent, the most in almost two weeks.  Korean Intervention Speculation  The won snapped a four-day gain amid speculation policy
makers will intervene to stem appreciation that poses a risk to
exports.  “There is steady dollar demand from importers such as oil
refineries,” said Roh Sang Chil, chief currency dealer with
Kookmin Bank in  Seoul , the nation’s biggest lender. “The market
is also finding it difficult to break the 1,050 level amid a
perception that the authorities may not feel comfortable with
the pace of gains in the currency.”  The ringgit fell from a 12-week high as Malaysia’s
benchmark stock index declined 0.4 percent.  “There’s a lot of haggling and feet-dragging on the U.S.
debt issue and uncertainty will prevail for a while,” said D. Sivadass, foreign-exchange forwards trader at Hong Leong Bank
Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “With stocks mostly down, risk appetite
will be affected.”  Elsewhere,  China ’s yuan was little changed at 6.4450 per
dollar, while the Philippine peso was at 42.405 compared with
42.403 late last week.  Thailand ’s baht rose 0.1 percent to 29.78
and Indonesia’s rupiah climbed 0.1 percent to 8,523. Taiwan’s
dollar fell 0.1 percent to NT$28.859 and the Indian rupee
dropped 0.1 percent to 44.4075.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Chien Mi Wong in Singapore at 
 cwong303@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 