-- 
Yields Fall to 14-Month Low Versus U.S. as Growth Slows: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-07-26T05:57:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/yields-fall-to-14-month-low-versus-u-s-as-growth-slows-australia-credit.html
Australian government bond yields
are trading at their lowest levels in 14 months relative to
those in the U.S., underscoring concern that a slowdown in the
world’s fastest-growing economy may spread.  The benchmark 10-year yield rose two basis points to 4.93
percent, or 191 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, the least since May 2010 and down from 234 as
recently as June 1.  Australia ’s bonds have returned 1.8 percent
in July, including reinvested interest, more than the U.S.’s 0.9
percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Australian government borrowing costs have plunged as
investors cut growth expectations, with economists forecasting a
report tomorrow will show second-quarter inflation slowed to
less than half the pace of the prior period. The central bank
has kept rates unchanged since November, saying this month that
a “multi-speed” economy and strong currency were blunting a
mining boom. Investors also bought Australian debt as U.S.
leaders were deadlocked over the $14.3 trillion debt limit.  “If you scratch below the surface there are clearly some
problems in Australia caused in part by the success of the
commodities story and the strength of the currency,” said Simon Doyle, who oversees the equivalent of $6 billion in assets as
head of fixed income and multi-asset at Schroder Investment
Management Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “The market’s expectations
regarding Australia have moderated and we’ve seen interest-rate
expectations shift from tightening to easing.”  Retail Sales  Australian economic growth averaged 3 percent since 2004,
the most among the Group of 10 currencies, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens   said  today that the increase in
Australia’s terms of trade, a measure of income from exports,
has probably ended and the pace of income growth could be
expected to “moderate from its recent unusually strong
performance.”  Weaker retail sales and the Australian dollar’s 21 percent
gain over the past year have weighed on business confidence,
which fell to six-month low in June, in a National Australia
Bank Ltd. survey of 400 companies published July 12.  Consumer
confidence  slid by the most since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed in 2008, a Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne
Institute survey of 1,200 consumers taken July 4-9 showed.  The so-called Aussie, the world’s fifth most-traded
currency, rose 0.7 percent to $1.0919 as of 3:05 p.m. in Sydney.
It reached $1.1012 on May 2, the strongest since exchange-rate
controls were scrapped in 1983.  Cash Rate  Governor Stevens will likely keep the cash rate unchanged
over the next three to six months and may cut the benchmark next
year, Doyle predicted.  The yield on December cash-rate futures was 4.535 percent
in Sydney, implying an 86 percent chance of a rate cut by year-
end.  Australia’s consumer price index rose 0.7 percent in the
second quarter, after climbing 1.6 percent in the previous three
months, the Bureau of Statistics will say tomorrow, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 25 economists.
Prices likely accelerated to a 3.4 percent annual pace, the
survey showed.  Government bond and inflation-indexed note yields show
investors expect consumer prices will rise an annual 2.77
percent for the next 10 years.  Australian bonds have also benefited as investors seek
alternatives to dollar investments amid concern the U.S. will
struggle to curb its debt burden, risking a ratings downgrade.  President  Barack Obama  warned of a “deep economic crisis”
without a compromise to avert an Aug. 2 U.S. default as he
dueled Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  in back-to-back
speeches yesterday on efforts to resolve the debt-limit impasse.  Yields Below Rates  Yields on Australia’s government securities due in six
years or less are below the RBA’s target rate of 4.75 percent,
the only G-10 nation where relative rates are at such levels.
The country’s benchmark is the highest in the developed world.  “Investors diversifying away from U.S. dollar assets
continue to favor Australian bonds as a high-grade, higher-
yielding alternative,” said Jarrod Kerr, director of Australia
rates strategy at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Singapore .
“Unfortunately for larger funds and central banks, the market
is just not big enough to meet their demand.”  Australia has A$193 billion ($211 billion) in Federal
securities outstanding, according to the nation’s funding arm,
compared with $9.3 trillion in marketable U.S. public debt.  Central Banks  Alternatives to the euro, dollar and yen are attracting
traders as bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  grow, U.S.
leaders put the nation’s AAA credit rating at risk and  Japan 
struggles to recover from its worst earthquake on record. The
share of global currency reserves in a category that includes
Australian and Canadian dollars now exceeds that held in pounds
and yen, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “Asian central banks are very keen to buy alternative
currencies, and the Australian and Canadian dollars have reached
a point now where they are major, big-hitting currency pairs,”
 Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London , said in an interview last week.
“The dollar is slowly but surely losing its status as the
world’s reserve currency.”  Credit Suisse’s Kerr recommended investors exit trades
betting on a narrowing in the spread between Australian and
Treasury 10-year note yields, and look for opportunities to
resume such bets if the gap widens above 200 basis points. The
difference will shrink to 180 early next year, said Kerr, who
advised investors to buy Australian 10-year debt and sell the
U.S. counterpart when the spread was 225 basis points, or 2.25
percentage points.  Debt Deadlock  Credit-default swaps protecting investors in  U.S. debt  for
five years traded at 56.26 basis points yesterday, according to
CMA prices in  New York . That is three basis points cheaper than
the 59.1 for Australia, the narrowest gap in four weeks. CMA is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  “We can’t allow the American people to become collateral
damage to  Washington ’s political warfare,” Obama said in a
prime-time address from the White House. Moments later, Boehner
responded that the president “wants a blank check” to continue
 government spending  that is “sapping the drive of our people.”  Earlier in the day, Boehner, an Ohio Republican, and  Harry
Reid  of  Nevada , the Democratic leader in the Senate, unveiled
competing plans to raise the $14.3 trillion debt limit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  