-- 
YRC to Study China Businesses as Trucker Returns to ‘Roots’

-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 
2011-07-25T20:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-25/yrc-to-study-china-freight-units-as-trucker-returns-to-roots-.html
YRC Worldwide Inc. (YRCW)  will study its
Chinese units as the money-losing U.S. trucker refocuses on
moving trailers that carry cargo from more than one customer,
new Chief Executive Officer James Welch said.  Welch, 57, said today it was too early to speculate on
whether YRC would dispose of the  China  logistics and forwarding
units as it concentrates on hauling less-than-truckload freight.  “We have an operation in China and I need to understand
its capabilities and hopefully maximize them to the good of the
company,” Welch, who became CEO last week, said in a telephone
interview. “That’s my first take on it.”  YRC spent $45 million in 2008 for a 65 percent stake of
Shanghai Jiayu Logistics Co. and invested $45 million to create
freight forwarder JHJ International Transportation Co. in 2005.
The  Overland Park , Kansas-based trucker was built with more than
$2 billion in U.S. acquisitions in 2003 and 2005 and has since
posted four straight annual losses.  After selling its U.S. logistics business, “we don’t do
brokerage or warehousing” any longer, Welch said.  “The
company kind of has recycled itself back to what its original
roots were in the past, and that’s transportation, surface
transportation.”  Welch said he plans to spend his first several weeks on the
job visiting with customers and employees. He succeeded Bill
Zollars as CEO as YRC completed a financial restructuring that
included an infusion of new capital.  Welch served as CEO of Yellow Corp.’s Yellow Transportation
from 2000 to 2007. Yellow Corp. bought Roadway Corp. for more
than $1 billion in 2003 to form Yellow Roadway Corp., then the
biggest U.S. trucker. The company later purchased USF Corp. for
$1.37 billion to add overnight nationwide trucking and changed
its name to YRC Worldwide in 2006.  Welch worked for Yellow starting in 1978 and returned to
YRC after  serving  as CEO of Dynamex Inc., a transportation and
logistics company based in  Dallas .  YRC fell 2 cents to $1.01 at 4 p.m. in  New York  in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Langford in New York at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  