-- A123 Wins Court Approval to Sell Assets to Wanxiang
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-12-12T02:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/a123-wins-court-approval-to-sell-assets-to-wanxiang.html
Wanxiang Group Co. won court
approval to buy most of the assets of  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) , the
failed electric-car battery maker backed with U.S. government
funds, for about $256.6 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey approved the sale, which
has raised concern from some Republican lawmakers, at a hearing
yesterday in Wilmington,  Delaware , saying “the auction was
robust, the price is adequate.” The deal is still subject to
review by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S.  CFIUS, as it is known, is a federal interagency group led
by the Treasury Department that reviews mergers and acquisitions
for national-security concerns when a takeover may give a
foreign owner control of a U.S. company.  Wanxiang,  China ’s biggest auto-parts maker, will acquire
substantially all of A123’s assets including its automotive,
grid and commercial business. A123 also received approval to
sell its government business to Woodridge, Illinois-based
Navitas Systems LLC for about $2.25 million.  “Given the fact that we more than double where we were at
the beginning of the auction I think everyone was pleased,”
A123’s lawyer, D.J. “Jan” Baker, told Carey at the hearing.  Federal Grant  A123, which was awarded a federal grant of as much as
$249.1 million, held an auction last week where Wanxiang beat a
joint bid from Milwaukee-based  Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI)  and Tokyo-
based  NEC Corp. (6701)   Johnson Controls, the lead bidder for the auction with a
$125 million offer for the auto business, drew criticism from
the unsecured creditors’ committee, which claimed the jilted
bidder was attempting to undermine the sale.  “We have learned that lobbyists have been engaged” by
Johnson Controls to persuade CFIUS to reject the acquisition,
said William Baldiga, a lawyer for the creditors’ committee. The
creditors asked Carey to set aside a $5.5 million payment
Johnson Controls was set to receive for being outbid at the
auction and its auction-related expenses.  “I’m troubled by the suggestion that someone who
participated in the auction may already be working against the
sale,” Carey told lawyers before approving the creditors’
committee’s request.  Johnson Controls  An attorney for Johnson Controls, Joshua Feltman, told
Carey he wasn’t aware of any attempts by his client to thwart
the deal. He said that members of Congress preferred that
Johnson buy the assets, and the company shouldn’t be punished
for siding with the Michigan delegation.  The $5.5 million will be put into escrow until the
committee completes its investigation or CFIUS approves the sale
to Wanxiang.  The initial 30-day period of CFIUS’s review will end
tomorrow, which will be followed by a 45-day investigation,
according to Malcolm Tuesley, a lawyer hired by A123 on CFIUS
matters.  Baldiga and A123 financial adviser  Joe Miller  with Lazard
Freres & Co. said it’s very likely that CFIUS will approve the
sale.  U.S. Trust  Wanxiang, based in Hangzhou, China, will set up a U.S.-
based trust that would control the purchased assets if it hasn’t
received either approval or rejection from CFIUS before Jan. 15,
according to court papers. If it receives approval, the assets
will then vest in the company. If it doesn’t, the trust will
hold the assets until Wanxiang can dispose of them.  A123 will get the proceeds from the $256.6 million sale to
disburse to creditors regardless of the outcome.  Wanxiang’s purchase will give it A123’s cathode powder
plant in China and its share of a joint venture with Shanghai
Automotive Industry Corp., called Shanghai Advanced Traction
Battery Systems Co., in addition to the battery technology used
in Fisker Automotive Inc.’s Karma sedan.  Fisker, A123’s main customer, said it was awaiting the sale
of the company’s Michigan plant so it could resume production of
the $103,000 plug-in Karma sedan.  Car Batteries  A123, whose automotive business supplies electric-car
batteries to about a dozen customers, has facilities in the
Michigan cities of Livonia and Romulus.  The grid business focuses on energy generation,
transmission and distribution while the commercial division
develops products for industries such as telecommunications,
industrial robotics and power tools, according to court papers.
A123 works with the government on portable power solutions,
unmanned aerial vehicles, pulsed power weapons as well as small
energy cells for remote devices.  The Waltham, Massachusetts-based battery maker filed for
 bankruptcy  in October after a previous deal with Wanxiang was
scuttled amid congressional Republicans’ reluctance to allow its
sale to a Chinese company.  “Given the important national security interests at stake,
we expect a full review of the bankruptcy transaction by the
Treasury Department,” U.S. Senator  John Thune , a Republican
from  South Dakota , said Dec. 10 in a joint statement with fellow
Republican  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa .  A123 listed assets of $459.8 million and debt of $376
million as of Aug. 31 in court documents.  The case is In re A123 Systems Inc., 12-12859,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  