-- ABN Amro Increases Equity Allocation, Cuts Cash Holdings
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-12-11T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/abn-amro-increases-equity-allocation-cuts-cash-holdings.html
ABN Amro Bank NV’s wealth-management
unit is increasing its allocation for stocks and cleaning out
cash holdings as it bets on a rally in European and emerging-
market equities next year.  Investors should turn to equities in the new year to
benefit from a rebound in the global economy, said Didier Duret,
who helps manage 146 billion euros ($189 billion) as chief
investment officer at ABN Amro Private Banking in Geneva. The
wealth manager has increased the stocks portion of its portfolio
to 40 percent from 36 percent, he said.  “Equities are entering a sweet spot, with better macro
data and a turning point in the manufacturing cycle,” Duret
said in a telephone interview. “You can get a better return
with dividends of quality companies than high-yield bonds, which
are rather expensive.”  European stocks will continue to rally, after the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has gained 14 percent so far this year, as the
prospects for export growth increase, Duret said. Company
earnings will grow between 8 percent and 10 percent next year,
he said.  ABN had raised its position on the region’s equities to
overweight, meaning it held more of the stocks than are
represented in global benchmarks, after the European Central
Bank agreed on an unlimited bond-purchase program on Sept. 6.  “The European economy may lag but the equity market may
move ahead,” Duret said in a phone interview. “ Europe ’s export
sector will benefit from a return to the global growth pattern.
There is also a chance of a positive earnings surprise.”  Emerging Markets  ABN Amro Private Banking is increasing exposure to  emerging
markets  in Asia, particularly  China , Indonesia and  Thailand , he
said. The unit is betting on a rise in stocks as China’s economy
recovers and U.S. politicians address the so-called fiscal cliff
of more than $600 billion of automatic tax increases and
spending cuts scheduled to come into effect next year.  The biggest risk to a stock-market rally in 2013 would be a
lack of support by central banks, whose actions boosted markets
this year, Duret said.  The wealth manager also holds 45 percent of its portfolio
in bonds, 8 percent in hedge funds, 5 percent in real estate and
2 percent in commodities. It maintains an underweight rating on
U.S. and Japanese equities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  