-- Abramovich Buys $1.5 Billion Norilsk Stake in Rusal Deal
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-12-11T17:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/abramovich-cuts-norilsk-share-purchase-in-billionaires-truce.html
Roman Abramovich  agreed to revised
terms including changes to planned dividends in a deal to buy a
$1.5 billion stake in OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel  from United Co.
Rusal, according to three people familiar with the matter.  Norilsk may distribute at least $9 billion in dividends
over three years, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the plan isn’t public. The figure is down from the $10
billion given last week because Abramovich will buy equities
from shareholders instead of treasury stock, the people said.  The deal with the billionaire part-owner of  Evraz Plc (EVR)  and
Chelsea Football Club aims to resolve a feud between Norilsk’s
shareholders. His Millhouse LLC will own 5.87 percent of Norilsk
after the biggest supplier of nickel and palladium retires a 17
percent stake in treasury stock, Rusal and billionaire  Vladimir
Potanin ’s Interros Holding Co. said today in a joint statement.
Last week’s preliminary deal had Abramovich buying 7.3 percent.  Rusal, controlled by Oleg Deripaska, and Potanin are trying
to settle a more than four-year battle over control of Moscow-
based Norilsk by balancing their representatives on the board
and giving Abramovich voting rights for a 20 percent stake to
help quash shareholder disputes, according to the statement.  He will pay $160 a share to Potanin and Rusal, less than
the 5,376 rubles ($175) Norilsk closed at yesterday in Moscow.
The stock fell 2.1 percent to 5,266 rubles today. Rusal,
Interros and Norilsk wouldn’t comment today on the dividends.  Rusal, the world’s biggest aluminum smelter, declined by
1.2 percent to HK$4.82 by the close of Hong Kong trading.  Dilution Risk  “If Abramovich had bought treasury stock, Norilsk would
have had to report losses from its buyback program because it
paid $250 to $300 per share last year,” Nikolay Sosnovskiy, a
VTB Capital metals analyst, said by phone. That would have cut
the dividend Norilsk could pay, Sosnovskiy said.  Norilsk units spent $9 billion buying shares in the parent
last year to amass the 17 percent now held as treasury stock.  “The new structure removes the risk to the company and to
minorities of a value dilutive sale of the quasi-treasury
shares, transferring this risk to the selling shareholders,”
Erik Danemar, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst, said in a note.  Rusal will get as much as $620 million from the deal in
addition to dividends, helping it service debt, according to
Danemar. It faces about $900 million in debt repayments in 2013.  Reduced Influence  Potanin and Rusal, selling 5.42 million and 3.87 million
shares, respectively, will have 30.3 percent and 27.8 percent of
Norilsk after the treasury shares are canceled. The two parties
and Abramovich will contribute to a 20 percent stake held in
escrow, with Millhouse retaining the voting power, according to
the statement, down from 22 percent in the earlier agreement.
Potanin will replace Vladimir Strzhalkovsky as chief executive
officer, as long as the move gets board approval on Dec. 17.  Abramovich will also get one board seat instead of three.  “Abramovich’s entrance into the company reduces Potanin’s
influence over Norilsk and makes Rusal an equal partner, ending
the long-time shareholder feud,” said Kirill Chuyko, head of
equity research at BCS Financial Group in Moscow.  Rusal said last week that all court proceedings related to
Norilsk would be halted. A London arbitration court had been
scheduled to begin hearing a claim by Rusal that Potanin
breached their 2008 shareholder agreement over Norilsk.  The 13-member board will have four directors nominated by
Rusal and four by Potanin. The three parties will each appoint
one independent director and the minority shareholders may also
put forward a board representative, Rusal said. The aluminum
producer said conditions to close the deal still need to be met.  Metalloinvest’s Usmanov  “We always were for any agreement between the owners that
would guarantee company development and be in the interests of
all shareholders,”  Alisher Usmanov , whose Metalloinvest holds a
4 percent stake in Norilsk, said in an e-mail. Metalloinvest
hasn’t seen the details of the agreement, Usmanov said.  Abramovich is a former business partner of Deripaska. The
two pooled aluminum smelters to form Russian Aluminum in 2000.
Abramovich later sold his half to Deripaska, who created Rusal
through a three-way merger in 2006 with Sual Group and the
alumina assets of what was then  Glencore International AG. (GLEN)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  