-- Thai Billionaire Extends Deadline for F&N Offer
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-12-11T09:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/thai-billionaire-extends-offer-for-f-n-deadline-amid-oue-bid.html
Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi extended a deadline for a $7.3 billion offer
for Fraser & Neave Ltd. to a day before a higher bid from a
group led by  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE)  is due to close.  Charoen’s TCC Assets Ltd. will extend the closing date on
its S$8.88 offer for the property and beverages conglomerate a
fourth time to Jan. 2, according to a stock exchange statement
today. The OUE-led group on Nov. 15 topped his bid with a S$9.08
offer that closes Jan. 3.  Taking over the conglomerate’s soft-drink and real-estate
businesses would help Charoen expand his Thai businesses in
Asia. The billionaire agreed to buy a stake in the drinks and
property company in July, setting off a race to buy its assets.
F&N shares fell 0.2 percent to close at S$9.43 in  Singapore 
trading today.  “I don’t think Charoen is willing to give F&N up; it’s
about whether he can get the financing, not for the lack of
ambition,” said Justin Harper, a strategist at IG Markets in
Singapore. “He’ll be reluctant to give this up after seeing
F&N’s value, and the synergies it’ll bring with his own
businesses. With F&N, it’s full ownership or nothing.”  OUE has enlisted  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) ,  Japan ’s largest drinks
maker and F&N’s second-largest shareholder, in its bid. OUE
would get the company’s property business and Kirin would take
the food and beverage unit.  Kirin Involvement  Kirin, which has a 14.8 percent stake in F&N, has agreed to
tender its shares and won’t accept any competing bid, said OUE,
a property affiliate of Indonesia-based Lippo Group. The
Japanese brewer, Asia’s biggest beverage maker, will offer S$2.7
billion for F&N’s food and beverage business, if OUE wins enough
support to complete the takeover.  F&N has said it had committed to pay the OUE consortium a
break-up fee of as much as S$50 million if a competing offer is
successful.  Charoen’s  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , the largest shareholder in
F&N, dropped 1.3 percent to close at 39 Singapore cents today.  Charoen, 68, failed to win support for his S$8.88 a share
bid from F&N’s board, which has said an independent adviser
found that offer “not compelling, though fair.”  His unlisted business, TCC Group, has a real estate unit.
Thai Beverage, which sells the Chang brand of beer, gets almost
all its revenue from its home market.  Tycoons  Charoen’s net worth is $8.5 billion, according to data
compiled and calculated through the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index .  OUE Executive Chairman Stephen Riady is a son of Mochtar
Riady, who controls  Indonesia ’s Lippo Group, with businesses
ranging from real estate and financial services to food across
Asia.  OUE, which gets about 65 percent of its revenue from hotel
operations, is planning at least one investment a year in
Singapore to boost property holdings that include office towers,
luxury apartments and malls, Stephen Riady said in an interview
in August.  Heineken NV (HEIA)  won control of F&N’s beer unit, the maker of
Tiger beer, in a deal that closed in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  