-- AIG Bailout Exit No Finish Line as CEO Narrows Focus
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-11T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/aig-bailout-exit-no-finish-line-as-ceo-narrows-focus.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
once the world’s largest insurer, is getting a fresh start as a
more focused company as the U.S. exits its stake four years
after a bailout, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said.  “We are not at the finish line,” Benmosche, 68, wrote
yesterday in a memo to employees of the New York-based firm
after the U.S. said it would record a $22.7 billion profit on
the $182.3 billion rescue. “We have to exceed the expectations
of our clients, our investors, our regulators, and our other
stakeholders around the world.”  Benmosche, who took over in 2009, is cutting costs and
seeking to restore the reputation of a firm tarnished by its
near collapse. After selling non-U.S. life insurance operations,
the company is increasingly  reliant  on property-casualty
coverage at the unit previously known as Chartis, a business
that has reported an underwriting loss for four straight years.  AIG is “investing a lot of its energy in trying to execute
a turnaround in Chartis,” said Josh Stirling, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “When this starts to work, earnings
are going to start to recover.”  AIG is seeking an underwriting profit of 5 to 10 cents on
every dollar of premiums it collects for property-casualty
coverage by the end of 2015, according to goals it laid out in a
regulatory filing last year. Stirling said the company can get
there by cutting expenses, raising prices for coverage, and
doing a better job of evaluating risk and handling claims.  AIG’s Focus  The insurer is focusing more on writing profitable business
than on building premium revenue,  Peter Hancock , CEO of the
property-casualty unit, said in May. He’s been increasing the
focus on  emerging markets  and reducing business in segments that
require the company to hold more capital.  “It is a dramatically different company” from the insurer
hobbled in 2008 by derivative bets on subprime mortgages,
Timothy Massad, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial
stability, said in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg
Television with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “It’s much
smaller. It’s more focused on its core insurance operations.
It’s far less risky.”  Benmosche, who is fighting cancer, said in October he’d
like to extend his tenure at AIG to 2014. He said in early 2011
he’d remain CEO until this year.  “We kept our promise to rebuild this great company and
deliver a profit to those who put their trust in us,” Benmosche
said in the memo. “Today warrants a celebration like no other
in AIG’s history and places well in the past a crisis none of us
will ever forget.”  Brand Restored  Benmosche has restored the AIG brand name to the property-
casualty and U.S. life units this year while highlighting the
company’s rebound as he bought back shares to help wind down the
bailout. The company has posted four straight  profitable
quarters , driven by investment gains and a tax benefit. The CEO
introduced a new logo and agreed to sponsor New Zealand rugby
teams including the All Blacks.  “AIG is well positioned for future growth,” Jon Diat, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail. “The firm will continue
to grow its core global insurance businesses, focus to achieve
higher risk-adjusted investment returns by redeploying
investment assets, continue to emphasize efficient  capital
management , and reduce costs by gaining synergies and
efficiencies using its global scale.”  AIG surged 5.7 percent to $35.26 yesterday in New York,
bringing its gain to 52 percent this year. Still, the company is
down more than 90 percent from the end of 2007.  Expense Levels  “Management should place a stronger sense of urgency on
driving expense levels down,”  John Nadel , an analyst at Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc. wrote in a Dec. 5 research note. “It might
afford management the opportunity to spend parent company cash
in a manner more ‘friendly’ to  shareholders ” such as paying a
dividend, buying back shares or making acquisitions.  AIG has said it’s working to cut general and administrative
expenses by about $1 billion from 2010 levels by the end of
2015. The insurer is weighing a move from its headquarters in
lower  Manhattan  as part of a cost-saving consolidation, two
people familiar with the matter said in July, asking not to be
identified because the deliberations are private.  AIG is also seeking to improve relations with regulators
after  Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben. S Bernanke said that the
company “exploited a huge gap in the regulatory system” before
Benmosche took over, and operated its derivatives unit without
oversight.  Supervision Welcomed  “We welcome supervision by the Federal Reserve,”
Benmosche wrote in a Nov. 1 letter to the U.S. regulators,
saying he wouldn’t contest a designation as a potential risk to
the financial system. Such companies face tighter capital rules.  While AIG reduced risk from derivatives and worked to
improve liquidity, the sale of the  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  and American
Life Insurance Co. life divisions reduced the prospects for
growth in emerging markets. The divestitures, and an agreement
this week to sell a plane-leasing unit, also eliminate a cushion
the insurer had against natural disasters hurting results at
property-casualty units.  Ex-CEO Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, who built AIG over more
than four decades, said Benmosche was unable to benefit from the
same diversification of risk. AIG has sold more than $65 billion
in assets since its rescue, including consumer lenders, real
estate and a reinsurer, to help repay the bailout.  “He had to undo it,” Greenberg said of Benmosche in an
interview yesterday with Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu .
“It’s a different company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  