-- Mali Prime Minister Diarra Resigns After Arrest by Army
-- B y   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-12-11T21:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/mali-prime-minister-resigns-dissolves-government-after-arrest.html
Malian Prime Minister Cheick Modibo Diarra resigned and dissolved his government after he was
arrested by the army in the West African nation.  Diarra announced his resignation in an address on ORTM, the
state-owned broadcaster. Modibo Traore, military spokesman for
public affairs, defense and security, said Diarre was arrested
when he refused to resign before leaving the country for medical
treatment, then attempted to go.  Mali  Interim President Dioncounda Traore said on ORTM that
a new prime minister will be announced tomorrow, and a new
government appointed “in the week.”  “This was not a coup d’etat,” Bakary Mariko, a spokesman
for the group of soldiers who overthrew President Amadou Toumani Toure in March, said by phone. “Given that he pursued his own
personal political ambitions, the military has taken its
responsibility and presented him with the facts.”  The U.S. denounced the military’s action. Diarra was
“abducted by security forces loyal to the junta leader,”
Captain Amadou Sanogo, and was “forced to resign and dissolve
the cabinet,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said
in  Washington .  U.S. Criticism  “We condemn this act by the military junta and insist that
it halt its continued interference in Malian political affairs
and government,” Nuland said. “We view this event as a setback
for Mali’s transition” and “its efforts to try to restore
constitutional order and democratic government. The events of
last night reinforce the need to get as quickly as possible to
free and fair elections, ideally by April 23rd or as soon as
it’s technically feasible.”  Diarra was released and is with his family, she said.  Sanogo said he “facilitated” the prime minister’s
resignation, saying Diarra showed “excessive personal
ambition.” Speaking on ORTM, Sanogo said “it was necessary to
end that.”  “This development suggests that a solution to the
political and military impasse in Mali is unlikely to
materialize in the short term,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-
markets strategist with Standard Bank Plc, said in an e-mailed
note. “Diarra’s alleged personal ambitions may have frustrated
some segments of the security forces and civilian elite.”  The removal of Toure in March left a power vacuum in
Bamako, the capital, that allowed Touareg and Islamist rebels to
take control of the north of the country, which vies with
Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-biggest gold producer. The landlocked
nation’s economy is forecast to contract 4.5 percent this year
before growing 3 percent in 2013, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  UN Plans  The  United Nations Security Council  is considering a plan
already approved by African leaders for an intervention force of
3,000 troops who will train, equip and prepare Malian soldiers
to fight for control of the north. Residents of Bamako protested
on Dec. 8 to call for a quick decision on authorizing a military
intervention in the north.  The council may decide on action in Mali within days,
Nuland said.  Diarra, the former Africa chairman for  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration engineer, was
named prime minister of the West African state in April, after
the military junta handed back power to a civilian government.  Shares in companies that operate gold mines in Mali
declined.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  dropped 1.6 percent to 263.60
rand by 4:44 p.m. in Johannesburg, while  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) 
fell 0.2 percent to 6,370 pence in  London .  “While the negative news flow may weigh on the stock price
of mining companies operating in Mali such as Randgold, we do
not expect the latest round of instability to intrinsically
disrupt operations,” Gadio said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diakaridia Dembele in Bamako at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  