-- Antarctic Drillers Seek Clues to Life Two Miles Below Ice
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-12-12T16:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/antarctic-drillers-seeks-clues-to-life-two-miles-below-ice.html
A British-led team of researchers is
racing against time and the elements as they drill through 3.2 kilometers of
Antarctic ice to search for new forms of life on Earth. Lake Ellsworth is a body of liquid
water trapped between ice and bedrock 3.2 kilometers (2 miles) beneath the
surface of Antarctica. One of more than 350 known sub-glacial Antarctic lakes,
it’s been isolated from the terrestrial biosphere for at least several hundred
thousand years. The operation, which has an 8 million pound (almost $13
million) budget and is using about 100 tons of
equipment, is designed to help scientists better understand the
ecological limits that can support life and make discoveries
about the frozen continent's past climate. In October, I caught up with the British Antarctic Survey's Chris Hill, Program Manager of the Lake Ellsworth drilling program, and David Pearce, a BAS microbiologist working on the search for life in the samples BAS retrieves. Speaking in separate interviews, they told me about the pitfalls of working in Antarctica's harsh environment, the space-grade technology and hot-water drills they're using, and the lengths they’re going to ensure they don’t contaminate the lake. Publishable results might come by early 2014. Q: What do you think you might find? Chris Hill : What we're most likely to find in terms of life is some sort of microbial life. It's what biologists refer to as extremophiles, which are microbes that have adapted to very extreme environments. The interesting thing will be to see whether those microbes are thriving in that environment or whether they’re just clinging on at the very edges of existence. If we find just a sterile body of water that will almost be more interesting. Life finds its way to exist in every environment on this planet where there is water. If we find the first body of water on the planet that has no life in it, we can start to write the book on what the limits of life are, which has huge implications for outer space exploration.  David Pearce : It’s ultimately the
search for life. Is there life, and if there is, what form does it take, how
does it survive, what constraints does it have. The second question is to find out
about the stability of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet from the sediment.
Primarily, whether the ice sheet melted in the past or not. Q: Are there any applications for
what you’re doing?  David Pearce:  Limitless. As
scientists we're governed by politics and funding. The next stage in
sub-glacial exploration will depend on what we find. If we find organisms that
are common in the rest of the world, well that's interesting, but it doesn’t
tell us very much. If we find unusual organisms, why is
it unusual and what is it about them that can be useful to us? They might have
biochemistry that enables them to change chemicals in the atmosphere in ways
that we haven’t thought of before. They may contain antibiotic
molecules that we hadn’t encountered before and they use in competition with
other bugs down there that we could adapt and use in biotechnology. Q: The nail-biting element of this
operation is that you have to take your samples before the hole refreezes. How
are you planning to use that time? How do you know any organisms in the samples
aren’t contaminants from the journey up or the surface? Chris Hill:  So we reach the lake, we
take the drill out of the hole to clear the hole for the instruments. Once
we've removed the drill, of course, we've removed the heat source, which is the
only thing keeping the hole open, so the clock starts ticking. The first thing we deploy is a very,
very strong ultraviolet light so that if there's any microbial life at the edges of the hole, we can just irradiate
it. The moment it comes out, the cap is
sealed on the wellhead and that is now closed -- it’s a completely sterile
hole. Everything then that goes down the hole goes through an airlock. It’s
almost like NASA space technology here. We're creating complete airlocks at
every stage and nothing can get in or out. Q: You’re confident you’re not
going to get any contamination? Chris Hill : We're absolutely
confident we've gone above and beyond what’s required of us to keep this lake
as clean as we possibly can. Q: What stops the water gushing up from the lake or the snow melted for the drill  from going down to the lake? Chris Hill : It's essentially a
pressure-balancing act. We can reasonably approximate the pressure the lake is
at -- 310 bar of pressure. The challenge is to equalize that by creating 310
bar of pressure in the hole. The beauty of this is if we get it
wrong, the water in the hole is sterile. We're going to filter that snow. We
have a bank of four filters, four stages. The final stage of that is 0.1
microns, which is double the standard the pharmaceutical industry uses. And
then we're going to run that same water through an ultraviolet chamber so that
if anything's made it through the filters, we're going to kill it.  Q: Tell me about the
sampling probe you're sending down: Chris Hill : It contains 24
individual sample bottles of 100 milliliters, each of which can be fired completely
independently. So we can gather a water sample from 24 different depths down
the lake. In reality what we'll probably do is gather them in triplicate -- so
we'll get three at one depth, three at another depth and so forth.  David Pearce : Where we're
going it's about 160 meters deep. We're using one bottle for microbiology, one
bottle for organic geochemistry, and one for hydrochemistry.  The organic geochemistry tells us what organic molecules are
present in the water, and these can be indicative of life and what it’s doing
now. The hydrochemistry tells us about the physical and chemical conditions of
the lake water; whether it’s oxic or anoxic. Q: What happens once the water
samples come up? Chris Hill : We take our samples and
recover that instrument back to the surface, back into sterile containment. We
then deploy the sediment corer. It has one job. To go to the very bottom of the
lake, to position itself right on the lake bed, on the sediment, and to hammer
out a three-meter barrel to give us a three-meter core of the sediment of the
lake. Hopefully that should take a matter
of minutes. We've got cameras top and bottom. Q: You'll drop two sets of samplers
and corers down if you have time. Do you need to redrill the hole? Chris Hill : I think we will. We'll
have a window between 24 and 30 hours to get our samples. We think we can
deploy and recover the probe in approximately 6 to 8 hours. The corer should be
a bit quicker, more like 4 to 6 hours. Then obviously we have the sterile UV
lamp at the start, which will be about 6 hours as well. When you start adding
those up, you don’t have a lot of margin. We need [an opening of at least] 200
millimeters (almost 7.9 inches) for the instruments. The hole starts out at 400
millimeters. After 24 hours it’s down to about 300 millimeters, and that's
about as far as we want to go so it doesn’t get stuck. We've got a
3.2-kilometer hole. We need to make sure we can get these instruments out. It
would be a disastrous if we got halfway up and it got jammed. So we've built in
significant tolerances so we can recover everything. Using the second set of probes
wouldn’t be down to time, it would be down to fuel. Everything is fuel
dependent. It all burns on jet aviation fuel. The reason for that: it's
reasonably safe, has a high flashpoint, and is really clean. Of all the fuels
you can burn down there it has the least emissions. Q: What are the potential pitfalls? Chris Hill : There are a lot. Working
in Antarctica is extremely risky. Many field camps in Antarctica if they wake
up and the weather's particularly bad, they'll just take a day off. We can’t do
that once we've started this process. If we stopped it and took the heat source
away, the water would freeze in the pipes and that would be game over. Once we make the decision to start
we have to commit to it and stick to it all the way through. Q: It must be fascinating being
involved in a project like this. David Pearce : It's the pinnacle of a
career. It's taken me 15 years training to get to a stage where I can do this.
The whole project has taken about 10 years from its inception to get to the
stage where we're ready to go into the field. Everything's got such a long
lead-in time. So it’s a bit like a space mission. You work at it for years and
years and years, you get one shot at it and that either works or it doesn’t
work. And if it does work, the data you get, you can spend the rest of your
career analysing it. If it doesn’t work, you’re back to the drawing board and
starting work again. If it all comes off it'll be really exciting. I compare it
to finding life on another planet.  Visit  www.bloomberg.com/sustainability  for the latest from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global business.