-- Japanese Stocks Fall as Utilities Decline on Quake Risk
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2012-12-11T06:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/apanese-stocks-open-little-changed-ahead-of-fed-meeting.html
Japanese  stocks  fell, with the Topix
Index retreating for a second day from a seventh-month high, as
utilities dropped after regulators said an active earthquake
fault may be running under a nuclear reactor.  Kansai Electric Power Co. led declines among electricity
producers after the  Nuclear Regulation Authority  said earthquake
risk may prevent the restart of a reactor operated by  Japan 
Atomic Power Co. Nintendo Co. sank 4.8 percent in  Osaka ,
dropping for a second day after debuting a new game  console in
Japan. Sharp Corp. advanced 6.9 percent after reports the
electrical appliance maker will receive loans as it tries to
return to profit.  The Topix lost 0.3 percent to close at 786.07 in Tokyo,
with about two stocks falling for each that advanced. The gauge
closed on Dec. 7 at its highest level since May 2 as investors
bet elections this month will bring to power an opposition party
calling for more economic stimulus measures. The  Nikkei 225
Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.1 percent to 9,525.32 today.  “Prospects for restarting the nuclear reactors are slowly
being squashed, and that’s going to increase the cost of
electricity,” said  Ayako Sera , a market strategist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. in Tokyo, which has about $400 billion in
assets. “Raw-material companies such as metals producers will
probably be the most heavily affected by rising electricity
costs. If electricity costs rise, it’s going to be harsh for
them.”  Japan Elections  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.2
percent today. The gauge gained less than 0.1 percent yesterday
after economic data in China beat estimates and as investors
weighed prospects for a U.S. budget deal.  The Federal Reserve starts a two-day meeting today. Dealers
that trade securities with the central bank expect it to begin
buying as much as $45 billion a month in Treasuries and to keep
benchmark interest rates about zero into 2015, according to
Bloomberg News surveys.  The  Topix (TPX)  typically rallies in the 20 days leading up to
elections and drops immediately after, according to calculations
based on closing levels before and after elections dating back
to 1972. The measure has advanced more than 8 percent since Nov.
14 when Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda called for elections on
Dec. 16. Stocks gained as the yen weakened on bets the
opposition Liberal Democratic Party will win and call for more
monetary easing.  The Topix traded at 0.9 times  book value  today, compared
with 2.1 for the S&P 500 and 1.5 for the Europe Stoxx 600 Index.
A number less than one means companies can be bought for less
than the value of their assets.  Nuclear Concerns  Kansai Electric Power dropped 4.4 percent to 742 yen, the
biggest drop on the Nikkei 225.  Chubu Electric Power Co. (9502) , the
second-largest decliner, slid 4.1 percent to 1,041 yen. Tokyo
Electric Power Co. fell 1.4 percent to 138 yen.  The Nuclear Regulation Authority raised the possibility an
active faultline may run directly beneath Japan Atomic Power’s
Tsuruga No. 2 reactor. The investigation team is unable judge
the reactor as safe in its current condition, said Shunichi Tanaka, the head of the investigation team.  “The power suppliers are pulling the stock market back
today,” said Takuya Takahashi, deputy head of research at Daiwa
Securities Co. “There isn’t that much news in the market right
now, so the utilities are having a big effect on the market.”  Nintendo sank 4.8 percent to 8,800 yen, the second-biggest
drag on the Topix. The game maker released its Wii U home video-
game console on Dec. 8. The company may face a challenge from
its own handheld players, besides competition from smartphones
and tablet computers such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad, said
Tomoaki Kawasaki, a Tokyo-based analyst at Iwai Cosmo Holdings
Inc.  The Nikkei Stock Average Volatility Index lost 3 percent to
17.34 today, indicating traders expect a swing of about 4.9
percent on the benchmark gauge over the next 30 days.  Sharp, Sumco  Among stocks that rose, Sharp advanced 6.9 percent to 218
yen, the  biggest gain  on the  Nikkei 225. (NKY)  Resona Holdings Inc.
will join Japanese lenders offering 360 billion yen ($4.4
billion) of emergency loans to the TV maker, three bank
officials with knowledge of the matter said, asking not to be
named because the discussion is confidential.  Sumco Corp. rose 5.4 percent to 717 yen, extending
yesterday’s 17 percent gain and posting the second- biggest
advance  on the Nikkei 225. The maker of silicon wafers increased
after Daiwa Securities raised its investment rating on the
company to “outperform” from “neutral” on prospects for
higher demand for tablet computers. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch yesterday boosted its outlook for the company on prospects
for an increase in wafer prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  