-- Apple Not Seen Paying Special Dividend With Cash Overseas
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-12-11T21:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/apple-not-seen-paying-special-dividend-with-cash-overseas.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s ability to pay a
special dividend is limited because almost 70 percent of its
cash is outside the U.S., reinforcing why investors aren’t
projecting an extra payout by year’s end.  While dozens of companies are paying special one-time
dividends ahead of a potential jump in taxes, Apple probably
won’t join in partly because so much of its $121.3 billion in
cash is held overseas, according to analysts. Apple is likely to
focus on boosting its quarterly $2.65-a-share dividend, said
Brian White of Topeka Capital Markets Inc.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) 
and at least three dozen other companies have announced special
dividends this quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The payouts come ahead of a potential rise in the top federal
tax rate on dividends to 43.4 percent from 15 percent next year
as part of the so-called fiscal cliff, a blend of tax increases
and spending cuts that will take effect if U.S. lawmakers don’t
forge a budget deal.  Apple doesn’t share the same concerns as other companies
over the tax increase, White said.  “That’s not how they operate,” White said in an
interview. “They won’t be driven by some transactional event --
it’s just not their style to try to game taxes or game the
market.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment.  Growing Dividend  White’s comments matched those of Wall Street analysts such
as Chris Whitmore of Deutsche Bank AG. Instead of the special
dividend, investors can expect Apple to increase its current
payout by at least 10 percent, said Abhey Lamba, an analyst with
Mizuho Securities USA.  “They will continue to give that dividend and will
probably start growing it,” Lamba said.  Much of the company’s cash flow is being used for the
dividend announced this year, Lamba said.  Investors are more concerned that Apple’s long-term growth
prospects may be fading, rather than whether the company will
pay a special dividend, said Andy Hargreaves of Pacific Crest
Securities LLC. Increased competition for the iPhone and iPad,
as well as investors selling shares to avoid paying higher
capital gains taxes, have contributed to the stock losing almost
a quarter of its value since hitting an all-time high in
September, he said.  Apple rose 2.2 percent to $541.39 at the close in New York.
While the stock has declined 23 percent since posting a record
close of $702.10 on Sept. 19, it remains up 34 percent this
year.  Reinstated Divided  Cupertino, California-based Apple reinstated dividends
starting in the quarter beginning July 1 and adopted a plan to
buy back $10 billion in shares over three years. Investors saw
that as a sign Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  was more willing
than late co-founder Steve Jobs to channel part of cash and
investments directly to investors.  The moves will cost $45 billion over three years and expand
Apple’s investor pool, Cook said at the time. Apple last paid a
dividend in 1995, before Jobs returned as CEO and led the
introduction of top-selling products including the iPod, iPhone
and iPad.  Even while distributing more cash to investors, Apple will
continue to add to its cash reserves, with its balance sheet
reaching $250 billion by the end of 2015, White said.  “This is a cash gusher,” White said.  In an interview last week with Bloomberg Businessweek, Cook
said that Apple’s cash was being managed with “the most
conservative investments known to man” and that he was
“involved heavily” in the decision to distribute the funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  