-- Asian Stocks Outside Japan Rise Before U.S. Fed Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-12-11T10:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/asian-stocks-fluctuate-before-u-s-federal-reserve-meet.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with a regional
index that excludes Japanese shares heading for its highest
close in 16 months, ahead of a Federal Reserve policy meeting
and as investors await progress on U.S. budget talks.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company,
added 1.3 percent in Sydney after metal prices rose. STX
Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. jumped 7.2 percent in  Seoul  after a
report the shipbuilder’s parent was to selling a unit that makes
offshore vessels. Kansai Electric Power Co. led Japanese
utilities lower after regulators said an active earthquake fault
may be running under a nuclear reactor.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index (MXAPJ)  advanced 0.3
percent to 460.45 as of 7:23 p.m.  Tokyo  time, heading for its
highest close since Aug. 3, 2011. About the same number of
shares rose as fell on the gauge. The measure climbed the past
three weeks on signs of recovery in the world’s two largest
economies and optimism U.S. lawmakers will make a budget deal to
avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  “The only risk would be if there’s no resolution of the
U.S. fiscal cliff, but I think that’s unlikely,” said Shane Oliver, Sydney-based head of strategy at AMP Capital Investors
Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management. “The more
likely scenario is that shares continue to rise next year as the
U.S. economy picks up momentum.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  that includes  Japan  advanced 11
percent this year through yesterday as central banks took steps
to support economic growth. That compares with a 13 percent gain
for the S&P 500 and 14 percent for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
The Asian gauge traded at 14.2 times estimated earnings,
compared with 13.7 times for the S&P 500 Index and 12.6 times
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Utilities Drop  Australia ’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  and South Korea’s Kospi Index
both rose 0.4 percent. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index
jumped 1.3 percent to close at a record. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index gained 0.2 percent. The BSE India Sensitive Index fell 0.1
percent, reversing gains as much as 1 percent.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average slipped 0.1 percent. The
Topix Index, the country’s broadest measure of equities, dropped
0.3 percent as utilities tumbled. The power producers were among
the biggest drags on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, which includes
Japanese companies.  China ’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.4 percent,
erasing gains of as much as 0.2 percent. New lending by the
country’s banks increased to 522.9 billion  yuan  ($84 billion) in
November. That compares with 562.2 billion yuan a year earlier
and the 550 billion yuan median estimate by 30 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Market Breather  “The market needs to take a breather here after its decent
rally,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong
Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million. “The market will
probably continue to go up after the consolidation given the
recent positive signs that the economy is bottoming out.”  Economic data are giving a mixed picture of the outlook for
the world’s second-biggest economy, with China’s exports rising
less than forecast last month even as industrial output
accelerated.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2
percent today. The gauge gained less than 0.1 percent yesterday
as economic data in China beat estimates and investors weighed
prospects for a U.S. budget deal.  Federal Reserve policy makers begin a two-day meeting today
that will be followed by updated projections on economic growth,
unemployment, inflation and interest rates on Dec. 12. Fed
officials are considering whether to supplement $40 billion a
month of mortgage-bond purchases with Treasury purchases when
their Operation Twist program expires at the end of the month.  Budget Talks  Separately, U.S. lawmakers need to agree on a budget to
prevent more than $600 billion of automatic tax increases and
spending cuts from coming into effect next year. President
 Barack Obama  and Republican House Speaker John Boehner met one-
on-one at the weekend at the White House. Representatives for
the two said in statements afterward that “the lines of
communication remain open.”  “The market now seems stuck in a trading range until news
from  Washington  about any progress or deterioration in budget
negotiations is released,” said Matthew Sherwood, head of
markets research at Perpetual Investment, which manages about
$25 billion in Sydney.  Mining companies advanced after the  London Metals Exchange
Index (LMEX) , which tracks the prices of commodities from aluminum to
copper, climbed 1.9 percent yesterday, extending gains for a
second day. BHP Billiton gained 1.3 percent to A$35.41 in
Sydney. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest mining
company, added 0.8 percent to A$61.77.  Safety Tests  STX Offshore jumped 7.2 percent to 7,430 won in Seoul. STX
Group may announce the sale of its 51 percent stake in offshore
vessel-maker  STX OSV Holdings Ltd. (SOH)  to Fincantieri SpA “soon,”
MoneyToday said, citing unidentified officials familiar with the
deal.  Kweichow Moutai Co., China’s second-biggest liquor maker,
rose 1.8 percent to 202.31 yuan in  Shanghai  after the company
said safety tests conducted this year showed the company’s
products met government standards for three chemicals.  Giant Manufacturing Co. (9921)  added 1.2 percent to NT$163 in
Taipei after the world’s largest bicycle maker said sales in
November climbed 25 percent from a year earlier to NT$2.21
billion ($76 million).  Skyworth Digital Holdings Ltd. (751)  rose 2.4 percent to HK$4.19
in Hong Kong after saying total television sales increased 44
percent in November from a year earlier.  Earthquake Risk  Japanese utilities declined. The Nuclear Regulation
Authority said earthquake risk may prevent the restart of a
reactor operated by the Japan Atomic Power Co.  Kansai Electric dropped 4.4 percent to 742 yen. Chubu
Electric Power Co. slid 4.1 percent to 1,041 yen.  Tokyo Electric
Power Co. (9501) , owner of the power plant at the center of last year’s
nuclear disaster, fell 1.4 percent to 138 yen.  “Prospects for restarting the nuclear reactors are slowly
being squashed, and that’s going to increase the cost of
electricity,” said  Ayako Sera , a market strategist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. in Tokyo, which has about $400 billion in
assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  