-- Dow Average Erases Post-Election Drop as Treasuries Fall
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-12-11T21:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/asian-stocks-drop-for-first-time-in-nine-days-metals-decline.html
U.S. stocks rallied, with the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  erasing its decline since Election Day,
as investors weighed progress in U.S. budget talks and German
investor confidence jumped. Treasuries fell.  The Dow increased 78.56 points to 13,248.44 and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.7 percent to end  at
1,427.84, less than one point below its Election Day close. The
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index increased 0.3 percent, closing at an 18-
month high, and  Germany ’s DAX Index reached an almost five-year
high. Ten-year Treasury yields rose four basis points to 1.65
percent. Oil halted a five-day drop, while wheat slid as
government data showed global inventories will shrink less than
forecast. Spain’s bonds jumped after an auction.  The Dow and S&P had lost as much as 5.3 percent after the
Nov. 6 elections set up a budget showdown between President
 Barack Obama  and the Republican-controlled House. House Speaker
John Boehner today reiterated his call for Obama to offer
proposed spending cuts as part of deficit-reduction plans.
Federal Reserve officials began a two-day meeting to be followed
by statements on the economy and monetary policy.  “On the surface the rhetoric with the fiscal cliff hasn’t
changed, but it seems like underneath there’s some progress,”
James Dunigan, who helps oversee $112 billion as chief
investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth Management,
said in a phone interview. “We’ve been dealing with this
mountain of uncertainty, and if we can scale that then we have a
pretty good-looking future.”  ‘Extremely Difficult’  Stocks  pared gains  today as Senate Majority Leader  Harry
Reid  told reporters that Republicans were holding middle-class
tax cuts “hostage” and have offered no specifics on what they
want in budget negotiations. The Democrat from Nevada said “it’s
going to be extremely difficult to get it done before Christmas,
but it could be done.”  U.S. lawmakers need to agree on a budget to prevent more
than $600 billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts
from coming into effect next year.  The  S&P 500  climbed for a fifth straight day, matching its
longest rally since August, and extended its 2012 advance to
almost 14 percent. Fed officials are considering whether to
supplement $40 billion a month of mortgage-bond buying with
purchases of Treasuries when their Operation Twist program
expires at the end of the month.  “The real challenge is at some point in time you’re
pushing on a string, as you inject all that liquidity into the
system,”  Paul Ballew , chief global economist at Dun &
Bradstreet Corp. in Short Hills,  New Jersey , said in an
interview with Mark Mills on the “Bloomberg - The First Word”
radio program today. “The bigger question right now is the fact
that after four years of aggressive monetary policy, whether or
not anything else will really make a material difference on the
direction of the recovery.”  Market Leaders  Intel Corp ., 3M Co., Merck & Co. and Microsoft Corp. rose
at least 1.5 percent to lead gains in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average. American International Group Inc. rallied 5.7 percent
after the Treasury Department said it is selling its last 234.2
million shares of the insurer, bringing to an end its bailout of
the company that fueled resentment against  Wall Street .  Apple Inc. advanced 2.2 percent as Morgan Stanley
reiterated its overweight rating for the world’s most valuable
company after the stock lost 25 percent from its record in
September. Delta Air Lines Inc. increased 5.1 percent after
agreeing to buy a 49 percent stake in Virgin Atlantic Airways
Ltd. from Singapore Airlines Ltd.  The dollar weakened against 12 of 16 major peers, while the
euro strengthened against 13 of 16 counterparts and climbed 0.5
percent to $1.3004.  Commodities Retreat  Wheat led losses in commodities, tumbling as much as 3.9
percent after a government report showed global inventories will
shrink less than forecast, easing concern that droughts from the
U.S. to Australia were creating a grain shortage.  Silver, natural gas, aluminum and copper also lost at least
0.4 percent, while gains in cotton, coffee and cattle led the
S&P GSCI Index of commodities to a 0.1 percent gain. Oil rose
for the first time in six days, climbing 0.3 percent to $85.79 a
barrel, as OPEC members gathered in Vienna to discuss output
levels. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
probably leave its production quota unchanged when ministers
meet tomorrow in Vienna, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Seven-Day Gain  The seven-day rally for the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  is the
longest winning streak in 17 months. Suez Environnement Co.,
Europe’s second-biggest water company, rallied 8.3 percent, the
most in three years, after GDF Suez Chief Executive Officer
Gerard Mestrallet said his company won’t reduce its stake.  Germany’s DAX Index increased 0.8 percent to the highest
level since January 2008. The ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said its index of investor and analyst
expectations climbed to 6.9 from minus 15.7 in November, beating
the minus 11.5 forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 38 economists.  The German data “shows a clear improvement in sentiment,”
said Jerome Forneris, who helps manage $8.5 billion at Banque
Martin Maurel in Marseille. “This statistic is closely followed
by investors. Germany is the locomotive of Europe.”  KBC Groep NV sank 4.8 percent as Belgium’s biggest bank and
insurer by market value sold 1.25 billion euros ($1.6 billion)
of shares. Diageo Plc fell 1.6 percent after the world’s largest
distiller ended talks about acquiring Cuervo tequila.  Franc Deposits  The franc weakened 0.4 percent against the euro. UBS AG,
Switzerland’s biggest bank, said in a notice published on the
Swift system yesterday that it would start charging financial
institutional clients for cash balances held in Swiss francs
from Dec. 21. UBS said charges would be communicated
individually to clients within days. The franc dropped last week
as Credit Suisse was said to set a negative rate of as much as
minus 1 percent on balances held in the currency.  The yield on Spain’s  two-year  note slid 11 basis points to
2.98 percent as the government exceeded its maximum target at a
bill sale and borrowing costs fell.  Italy’s 10-year yield dropped 10 basis points to 4.72
percent and the cost of insuring against default on Italian
government debt fell for the first time in six days, with
credit-default swaps linked to the nation’s bonds losing four
basis points to 288.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.5 percent, with
benchmark gauges in  South Korea ,  Poland ,  Israel  and  Brazil 
gaining at least 0.4 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.4 percent after new
 yuan  loans were less than analysts predicted. Shares in the
United Arab Emirates tumbled, with  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX General Index
sinking 2.6 percent and Dubai’s DFM General Index slumping 1.5
percent, led by telecommunications companies as the country set
new royalty rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  