-- Asos First-Quarter Sales Beat Estimates on U.K. Price Cuts
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-12-11T11:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/asos-first-quarter-sales-beat-estimates-on-u-k-price-reductions.html
Asos Plc (ASC) , the U.K.’s largest online-
only fashion retailer, reported first-quarter sales that beat
analysts’ estimates as it lowered prices of its own-brand label
and forecast a “good” Christmas season.  The stock surged as much as 7.6 percent to the highest
level since the company’s initial public offering in 2001.
Retail sales climbed 30 percent to 165.8 million pounds ($267
million) in the three months ended Nov. 30, the London-based
retailer said. That was more than the 29 percent average of nine
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Asos , with over 60,000 product lines targeting people in
their twenties, is overcoming the slowdown in consumer spending
by offering budget-price clothing to fashion-conscious women.
The retailer has cut the price of its Asos-label products and is
investing in marketing and adding staff and offices in its
bigger overseas markets including the U.S, France and  Germany  to
lure shoppers.  The sales performance “sees the year off to a flying
start,” Bethany Hocking, an analyst at Investec, said in an e-
mail. She has a buy recommendation on the stock. The U.K.
outperformance “should go some way to silence maturity
arguments.”  U.K. sales rose 24 percent, better than the average
estimate of a 16 percent gain, while international sales rose 34
percent.  Good Christmas  The stock traded 4.7 percent higher at 2,579 pence as of
11:40 a.m., having more than doubled this year.  “We’re in for a good one” this Christmas, Chief Executive
Officer Nick Robertson said in a phone interview. “Every year
is a bigger online year. People thought that would slow, I don’t
think it will.”  New ways to buy online with tablet computers and mobile
phones will fuel growth, he said.  “For online this Christmas, it’s going to be phenomenal,”
the CEO added. “I’m very confident.”  The  gross margin  fell 1 percentage point, due to growth in
U.K. sales where it sells fewer of its more profitable own-brand
ranges, and a reduction in prices.  U.K. growth was driven by offering lower prices and
“marketing a bit harder,” including on social media sites and
with daily fashion updates on mobile phone applications, the
executive said.  The “new norm is headline price-grabbing initiatives,”
Robertson said of the U.K retail market. “We are headlining
promotions, discounts to drive traffic but the result on the
margin line is insignificant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  