-- Asterix, Obelix Leave France Amid Hollande’s Taxes on Rich
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-12-11T14:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/asterix-obelix-leave-france-amid-hollande-s-taxes-on-wealthy.html
Asterix and Obelix, who defended
Gaul from the Romans, are quitting  France .  Gerard Depardieu , who played Obelix in films on one of
France’s most beloved fictional characters, is fleeing President
 Francois Hollande ’s taxes on the rich by moving to  Belgium .
Christian Clavier, who played Asterix, has moved to  London .  Depardieu, also known for such classic French roles as
Cyrano de Bergerac and the musketeer Porthos, on Dec. 7
registered as a resident of  Nechin , where he has bought a home,
said Daniel Senesael, the mayor of Estaimpuis, the Belgian
commune to which the village belongs.  “We can only be happy that he chose to come to Belgium and
what’s more, Estaimpuis,” Senesael said in a Belgian  RTL radio 
interview yesterday. “He could have settled down in Brussels in
a chic and hip circle and he chose a rural setting. He found a
friendly atmosphere that suited him, a generosity of spirit,
openness, tolerance. I think that’s what he was looking for in
leaving the city.”  The 63-year-old actor, who also played Jean Valjean, the
post-revolution Frenchman convicted for stealing a loaf of
bread, in a television version of “ Les Miserables ,” is the
latest celebrity to seek to escape a slew of levies announced by
Hollande since the Socialist president was elected in May.
Hollande, who is imposing a 75 percent tax on income of more
than 1 million euros, has added new charges on  capital gains , an
increased tax on wealth, a boost to inheritance charges and an
exit tax for entrepreneurs selling their companies.  ‘The Visitors’  Clavier moved to London earlier this year for fear of
attacks against him for his close ties to former President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  rather than for taxes, his agent Alexandra
Schamis was cited as saying by  Agence France-Presse  in October.  In addition to playing Asterix, a comic character whose
exploits to protect his indomitable Gaulish village from Roman
occupying forces have made him beloved around the world, Clavier
has acted with Jean Reno in the film “The Visitors.”  Depardieu’s exit comes as the French government is seeking
to bolster revenue through taxes on large companies, Internet
startups and private fortunes to make its budget-deficit target
of 3 percent of gross domestic product next year. Hollande, the
first Socialist president in France since 1995, has called on
those “with the most to show patriotism” in tough times.  “Those who moved abroad aren’t afraid of becoming poor,”
Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said at a conference today in
Paris. “It’s because they want to become even richer.
Fortunately, there are only a few who want to move simply to get
out of showing solidarity with other French people.”  Patriotism Call  French billionaire  Bernard Arnault , chief executive officer
of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , filed an application for
Belgian nationality in September. While he promised to continue
paying taxes in France, the action prompted fierce criticism
from Hollande and his supporters.  Hollande also called on his “patriotism” and the
newspaper Liberation ran a front-page  headline  that read: “Get
lost, rich bastard.”  Belgian income and inheritance taxes are lower than in
France, and unlike France, Belgium does not impose a tax on
personal wealth, making it attractive for entrepreneurs, said
Philippe Kenel, Geneva-based tax lawyer at Python, Schifferli,
Peter & Associates.  Depardieu didn’t return a message left at his Paris home.
Francois Guerrar, Depardieu’s French press agent, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment to his mobile phone.  Sarkozy Supporter  The house Depardieu bought is just across the French
border. The ease of getting out of Nechin was as much an
attraction as the low tax rates and friendly locals, said
Senesael.  “The proximity to Lille train station, Lille airport, a
major highway mean it’s easy for him to travel,” he said.  Depardieu intends to stay there for “about six months a
year,” Senesael said. That’s enough time to qualify for Belgian
tax rates.  Depardieu, who was born in the Loire-region town of
Chateauroux, gained famed in the U.S. playing a cigarette-
smoking, wine-swilling French bon vivant who marries a prissy
American played by Andie MacDowell for American residency in
“Green Card.”  He was often spotted seated alongside the wife of former
French President  Jacques Chirac  at campaign events for Sarkozy,
who lost his re-election bid to Hollande in May.  “France without Depardieu is not the same, but Depardieu
without France is not the same either,” Socialist Party
spokeswoman Frederique Espagnac said  yesterday  at the party’s
weekly press conference. “So I want to say to Gerard: ’come
back soon.’”  -Editors: Vidya Root, Steve Rhinds  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  