-- Master Blenders Gains as Bennink Takes Charge: Amsterdam Mover
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-12-11T10:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/master-blenders-gains-as-bennink-takes-charge-amsterdam-mover.html
D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV (DE)  rose in
Amsterdam trading as investors placed their trust in Chairman
Jan Bennink following the surprise departure of Chief Executive
Officer Michiel Herkemij a year into the job.  Master Blenders rose as much as 2.3 percent, after
initially declining as much as 1.7 percent. The stock was up 1.9
percent at 8.91 euros as of 10:22 a.m. local time.  Bennink will serve as interim CEO until Herkemij’s
replacement is found, the Amsterdam-based company said yesterday
after markets closed. While Herkemij and the board agreed on the
strategy to be pursued, they differed on the speed of
implementation, according to the maker of Douwe Egberts coffee,
which was spun off from Sara Lee Corp. in June.  “Bennink’s commitment to stay on board as long as is
needed will provide some comfort to the market,”  Marco Gulpers ,
an analyst at ING in Amsterdam, wrote in a research note
following a conference call with the company.  Herkemij, a former Heineken NV executive who was hired by
chairman and fellow Dutchman Bennink last year, will depart at
the end of 2012 “by mutual consent,” Master Blenders said.  The departure is the latest in a series of blows for the
company, which in August said it would restate earnings because
of accounting irregularities in  Brazil  and in October reported
first-quarter revenue that trailed estimates.  “While no update on current trading was provided, it was
quite clear that Bennink was, like the market, disappointed
about the slow start to the year,” Gulpers wrote.  Joh. A. Benckiser, the investment firm run by Bart Becht
that raised its  stake  in Master Blenders to 15.05 percent in
October, said it was not behind the departure.  “JAB is not involved in management decisions of D.E Master
Blenders,” Elke Neujahr, a spokeswoman for the Reimann family
that controls JAB, said in an e-mail.  Master Blenders has revamped its Senseo system with new
packaging and flavors and has said it plans to expand into new
regions. The company has introduced a machine called Sarista
that uses whole beans and is aimed at coffee aficionados.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  