-- Mattel’s Trial Loss in Bratz Case Questioned by Judges
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/mattel-s-trial-loss-in-bratz-case-questioned-by-judges.html
Mattel Inc.’s trial loss in its
eight-year fight with Bratz doll maker MGA Entertainment Inc.
was questioned by the same federal appeals court panel that two
years ago threw out Mattel’s earlier victory over its rival.  The three U.S. Court of Appeal judges, at a hearing
yesterday in  Pasadena , California, challenged MGA’s lawyer
Clifford Sloan on how the toymaker could have brought its trade-
secret theft counterclaims, on which it won $160 million in
compensatory and punitive damages, into the case in 2010, six
years after Mattel said MGA should have known of the alleged
thefts.  Mattel’s lawyer, Kathleen Sullivan, told the panel that
MGA’s counterclaims were brought after the statute of
limitations had run and only should have been allowed in the
case by the judge overseeing the trial if they were so-called
compulsory counterclaims, based on the same facts as Mattel’s
trade-secret theft claims against MGA.  “If it isn’t a compulsory counterclaim, it doesn’t belong
in this lawsuit,” Circuit Judge Kim McLane Wardlaw said to
Sloan, adding that MGA may have to return to the lower court and
file a separate lawsuit. “If I were you, I’d be filing that
claim tomorrow.”  Chief Judge Alex Kozinski told MGA’s lawyer that, because
the jury hadn’t been asked to decide whether the company
couldn’t have known about the alleged thefts before 2010, he
would be “out of luck” if the appellate panel didn’t buy his
argument that MGA’s trade-secret theft claims were logically
related to Mattel’s and, as such, allowed as counterclaims.  ‘I Could Steal’  “I could steal from you and you could steal from me,”
Kozinski said. “That doesn’t mean there’s a relationship.”  Kozinski in 2010 wrote the opinion that overturned a series
of rulings by the judge who presided over the first trial
between Mattel and MGA over the Bratz dolls in 2008 and who had
given Mattel almost complete ownership of MGA’s Bratz brand
after the jury had awarded Mattel $100 million in damages.  U.S. District Judge David Carter in Santa Ana,  California ,
who presided over the second trial last year, denied Mattel’s
motion to dismiss MGA’s claims that Mattel employees, using fake
business cards, snuck into MGA’s showrooms at toy fares and
gained proprietary information about its plans for new dolls and
marketing strategy.  The jury awarded closely held MGA $88.5 million in damages
on its trade secret-theft claims, which Carter later reduced $85
million and then doubled by adding $85 million in punitive
damages.  Lawyer Fees  Carter also awarded MGA $2.52 million in fees and costs for
its trade-secret claim, in addition to $105.6 million in lawyer
fees and $31.6 million in costs for Mattel’s copyright claim,
which the judge said “imperiled free expression, competition,
and the only serious competitor Mattel had faced in the fashion
doll market in nearly 50 years.”  Mattel, based in El Segundo, no longer argues, after two
trials and more than eight years of litigation, that MGA
infringes its copyright because the first Bratz sketches were
made by a Mattel designer. Mattel now contends the “jaw-
dropping” $137.2 million in legal fees it was ordered to pay
MGA for having to defend the copyright claim is unjustified.  “Mattel knows of no copyright fee and cost award that was
similarly shifted on a claim that had been successful before one
jury, had resulted in substantial relief from a federal district
judge, and was remanded by a court of appeals before being
unsuccessful before a second jury,” the company said in its
Feb. 27 appeal. “Nor is Mattel aware of any copyright fee and
cost award of similar magnitude.”  In 2010, the appeals court panel said that, even if Mattel
were to convince a jury that it owned the original Bratz
sketches made by its former employee, Carter Bryant, it would
only entitle it to ownership of that particular expression of
the bratty-doll type, not to the idea itself.  Degas, Ballerinas  “Degas can’t prohibit other artists from painting
ballerinas, and Charlaine Harris can’t stop Stephenie Meyer from
publishing Twilight just because Sookie came first,” the
circuit court’s chief judge, Alex Kozinski, said in that ruling.
“Similarly, MGA was free to look at Bryant’s sketches and say,
‘Good idea! We want to create bratty dolls too.’”  Sloan told the appellate panel that Carter’s ruling,
allowing the MGA’s counterclaims to go forward, was consistent
with judiciary efficiency because after six years of “scorched-
earth litigation,” it would have been a burden on judicial
resources to have two separate trials on closely related issues.  MGA’s lawyer told the judge that the company couldn’t have
known about the trade-secret thefts by Mattel’s market
intelligence group because until 2010 Mattel’s executives had
lied in depositions.  ‘Destroying Bratz’  MGA, based in Van Nuys, California, said the $310 million
verdict is “but a drop in the bucket” compared to the harm
Mattel caused MGA through “its litigation strategy of
destroying Bratz.”  “Mattel’s quest to overturn the jury verdict on
sufficiency grounds faces a high bar, and here it is
insurmountable,” MGA said in its response to Mattel’s appeal.
“What the district court termed the ‘rich evidentiary record’
easily supports the jury’s finding that Mattel misappropriated
MGA’s trade secrets and the jury’s damages award.”  The case is  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  v. MGA Entertainment Inc.,
11-56357, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 