-- Austrian Regulator Sees ECB Needing Up to 1,000 Supervisors
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-12-11T14:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/austrian-regulator-sees-ecb-needing-700-1-000-staff-for-banks.html
The  European Central Bank  needs as
many as 1,000 new employees to supervise and regulate banks in
the euro area without having to rely on national authorities,
 Austria ’s banking watchdog said.  Sufficient staffing is important because the ECB will need
to participate in bank audits with its own employees to exercise
its authority,  Kurt Pribil , co-head of the Finanzmarktaufsicht
regulator, told reporters late yesterday in Vienna. Otherwise,
it may not be able to achieve its goal of harmonized bank
regulation in the 17-member euro area, he said.  “What’s very, very important is that the ECB will have
full jurisdiction,” said Pribil, who heads the FMA with Helmut Ettl. The ECB needs to hire “relatively quickly some 700 to
1,000 staff, who would need to have the authority on the ground.
If the ECB had to rely only on local regulators’ staff, an
important element of the strengthening would be lost.”  Banks with more than 30 billion euros ($39 billion) in
assets may face direct oversight by the ECB, according to a
document obtained by  Bloomberg News  yesterday. While national
regulators may carry out day-to-day supervision of “less
significant” banks, the ECB could step in “at any time, on its
own initiative,” according to the document prepared by Cyprus,
which holds the rotating European Union presidency.  ‘Like Magnet’  Austrian regulators also support designing the single
supervisory mechanism as an “open project,” which can easily
be joined by EU members not using the euro, Pribil said.
Austrian banks are the biggest lenders in the former communist
part of  Europe , where only Slovakia, Slovenia and Estonia
adopted the single currency so far.  “Austrian banks have many subsidiaries in central and
eastern Europe, and not all of them have the euro,” Pribil
said. “We want them to be part of it, hence we want this
banking union to be like a magnet that attracts the non-euro
members rather than repels them.”  The EU’s finance ministers will meet tomorrow in an attempt
to broker compromises on setting up the bank supervision at the
Frankfurt-based ECB that would be mandatory for the 17 euro-area
nations and optional for other EU states. ECB oversight is
required before banks can directly tap the currency area’s
firewall fund, a step that EU leaders have said is key for
breaking the link between sovereigns and their banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  