-- Lawmakers Seek U.S. Pressure on Rwanda Over Congo Crisi
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-12-12T07:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/lawmakers-seek-u-s-pressure-on-rwanda-over-congo-crisi.html
Members of Congress joined human-
rights groups in urging the Obama administration to take a
tougher stance against Rwanda for backing rebels in the
Democratic Republic of Congo.  Representative Chris Smith of New Jersey, the Republican
chairman of the House Foreign Affairs subcommittee on  Africa ,
said the administration has been “reluctant to criticize the
government of Rwanda,” which the United Nations says provides
direct support to the M23 rebels that captured the city of Goma
in Congo last month.  Smith, at a hearing of his panel yesterday, questioned why
the U.S. wasn’t seeking sanctions against leaders of the Rwandan
government and appointing a presidential envoy to the region. He
said President  Barack Obama , as a senator in 2006, pushed
legislation advocating “more robust” measures than the
administration has provided so far.  The crisis in Congo has killed 5 million people since 1997
and displaced millions more, said Johnnie Carson, assistant
secretary of state for the Bureau of African Affairs, who
testified at the hearing. Also at stake in the eastern part of
Congo, bordering  Rwanda  and Uganda, are deposits of tin ore,
gold, tungsten and coltan, a mineral used in laptops and mobile
phones.  As many as 1,000 Rwandan troops crossed the border into
Congo to support rebel operations last month in the village of
Kibumba, according to a letter from the UN Group of Experts that
is monitoring the crisis for the Security Council. Congo and
Rwanda have fought directly or by proxy since the late 1990s.  After controlling Goma for two weeks, M23 fighters withdrew
on Dec. 1 and remained in a ring around the city, according to
the UN.  ‘Credible’ Evidence  While the U.S. has been faulted for declining to criticize
the Rwandan government explicitly for supporting the M23 rebels
at the UN, Carson did so in his testimony.  “A credible body of evidence” points to “significant
military and logistical support, as well as operational and
political guidance, from the Rwandan government to the M23,”
Carson said. “Based on this evidence, we continue to press
Rwanda to halt and prevent any and all forms of support to
Congolese armed groups.”  The U.S. has cut about $200,000 in military aid to Rwanda.
Carson defended the continuation of development aid, saying it
has been used effectively to provide food, shelter and medicine.  “Our desire is not to hurt the Rwandan people,” Carson
said.  Token Gesture  Representative Tom Marino, a Pennsylvania Republican,
called the cut in military aid a token gesture and “a drop in
the bucket. It doesn’t seem that we’re very serious about
this,” he said.  The fighting in Congo, Africa’s second-largest country by
geographic area, has left civilians without protection and
created a security vacuum.  Lawmakers in  Washington  were joined by 15 human-rights
groups, including Freedom House, Refugees International and the
Enough Project. Those groups sent a letter to Obama Dec. 10
calling for the appointment of a presidential envoy and cutting
off or suspending all U.S. aid to Rwanda.  “Since the M23 was created in the spring of 2012, U.S.
officials continued to place faith in engaging Rwanda in a
constructive dialogue,” the letter said. “This approach has
clearly failed to change Rwanda’s policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  