-- Bank Data Confidentiality Rule Awaits Obama After Senate Passage
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-12-11T23:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/bank-data-confidentiality-rule-awaits-obama-after-senate-passage.html
Banks moved closer to greater
confidentiality for information they share with the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau after the  U.S. Senate  unanimously
passed legislation to extend the protection.  Senators backed amending the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
to give lenders assurance that providing information to the
bureau wouldn’t automatically waive any privileged status. The
measure would correct what lawmakers and the bureau agree was an
oversight that left the rule -- already in place for other
regulators out of the Dodd-Frank Act, which created the agency.  Senators agreed today to pass the bill by unanimous consent
after Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican who is
stepping down next month, removed a procedural block on the
measure. The House passed the bill on March 26 with bipartisan
support.  The legislation, which now goes to President  Barack Obama 
to be signed into law, should smooth the way for information-
sharing between financial firms and the consumer bureau during
regular examinations, L. Richard Fischer, a bank lawyer with
 Morrison & Foerster LLP  in  Washington , said in an interview.  Banks will still press the bureau to keep confidential the
exam information in response to requests under the Freedom of
Information Act or state attorneys general, Fischer said. “This
legislation deals with the first issue,” he said.  Some lenders supervised by the bureau, which will examine
banks with more than $10 billion in assets and some non-bank
firms, objected to Jan. 4 guidance issued by the agency that
said firms couldn’t withhold privileged information, such as
that protected by the traditional attorney-client shield.  Privilege Waiver  That led to worries on the part of banks that passing
information to the consumer bureau could be interpreted as a
waiver of privilege, and the information could eventually fall
into the hands of private lawyers.  DeMint placed a “hold” on the bill, saying in July that
he would remove it in return for a vote to repeal all of Dodd-
Frank. After November elections that saw Obama win a second term
and Democrats expand their Senate majority, DeMint softened his
opposition and raised no objection to a procedural move today to
advance the measure.  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, had previously
opposed the privilege bill as well. He dropped his opposition in
July after the inclusion of a measure that would remove the
requirement that banks put placards on ATMs to notify customers
of fees. Some banks have claimed that people have pried off the
signs, and then sued banks for not having them.  The Senate also unanimously passed the ATM bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  