-- Berkshire Adding DaVita Makes Pick Among Top at Firm
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-12-11T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/berkshire-adding-davita-makes-pick-among-top-at-buffett-s-firm.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  has been
buying about 1 million shares a month of dialysis-center
operator DaVita HealthCare Partners Inc., making the holding
among the  dozen largest  at  Warren Buffett ’s company.  Berkshire has accumulated 13.6 million shares, or about 13
percent, of DaVita from the end of September 2011 through Dec.
6, according to regulatory filings. The stake is valued at about
$1.45 billion, twice as much as Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire’s position in Washington Post Co., one of Buffett’s
longest-held investments.  Buffett’s firm benefited from DaVita’s 32 percent  rally 
since the Denver-based company announced a deal in May to buy
HealthCare Partners, a manager of physician networks. The bet
has stoked speculation about whether Berkshire will  take over 
the business, as it did after building equity stakes in railroad
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  and insurer Geico.  “Are they going to own 20 percent of this at some point?”
said Kevin Ellich, a senior research analyst at Piper Jaffray
Cos.  “And then, if that’s it, is it end game?”  The HealthCare Partners deal helps an already “good-cash-
flow business” and may aid DaVita as President  Barack Obama ’s
overhaul of the U.S. medical system is implemented, he said.  Chief Executive Officer Kent Thiry, 56, built DaVita as
rising obesity and diabetes rates led to a surge in the number
of patients seeking care for end-stage renal disease, or  kidney
failure . With more than 1,900 outpatient clinics, the company is
the second-largest U.S. provider of dialysis services and treats
about one-third of all ESRD patients in the country.  Weschler’s Role  The DaVita holding probably was built by Ted Weschler, one
of two stock pickers Buffett, 82, hired as part of a  succession
plan , Ellich said. The company was among the largest investments
at Weschler’s hedge fund, Peninsula Capital Advisors LLC, before
he joined Berkshire. His hiring was announced in September 2011
and Buffett’s firm had taken a 2.7 million-share stake by the
end of that year.  Weschler helped with due diligence on an investment in
dialysis provider National Medical Care Inc. when he was working
for chemical maker W.R. Grace & Co. in the 1980s. In 1996, Grace
merged NMC into Fresenius Medical Care AG, the world’s largest
provider of  kidney dialysis . Buffett didn’t respond to a request
for comment sent to an assistant.  People receiving the most common treatment for ESRD,
hemodialysis, typically make three visits a week to an
outpatient clinic, where they are hooked up to a machine that
filters toxins, fluids and salt from the blood.  Cash Flow  The federal government has covered most patients with ESRD
since the 1970s, giving providers a dependable revenue source,
said Dr. Tony Pfaffle, director of health care research at hedge
fund Bearing Circle Capital LP. Along with drugs, hemodialysis
cost about  $88,000 per patient  a year in 2010, according to the
U.S. Renal Data System. Taxpayers’ price tag for ESRD patients
ballooned to $33 billion that year.  DaVita’s free  cash flow  rose to  $780 million  in 2011,
almost twice as much as 2009, as Thiry added dialysis centers.  “It would be a great cash-flow engine, in my opinion, for
an acquirer,” Pfaffle said in a phone interview.  HealthCare Partners operates in states including California
and  Florida  under a system that rewards lowering costs. That
focus is a model for “where the puck is headed” for U.S.
health care, Thiry said after announcing a cash-and-stock deal
for more than $4 billion.  U.S. health care after Obama’s overhaul is “going to a
place where the incentive is to control costs,” said  Les Funtleyder , a  fund manager  at New York-based Poliwogg.  Stock Issuance  Still, DaVita faces legal challenges that may pressure the
stock, said Funtleyder, who has written a book about investing
in the industry. For years, the  Justice Department  has probed
the company’s relationships with doctors as well as billing and
administration of anemia drug Epogen.  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in  St. Louis  ended an inquiry
started in 2005 without filing any charges, DaVita said in
October. Other probes have been disclosed, though none have
resulted in proceedings against the company, according to its
most recent quarterly filing.  Jim Gustafson, a spokesman for DaVita, declined to comment
on Berkshire’s purchases. The company closed yesterday at
$106.49, giving it a market value of about $11 billion,
including the 9.38 million shares issued as part of the
HealthCare Partners deal.  Berkshire’s initial DaVita holding was acquired at about
$74 a share in 2011, according to data filed with insurance
regulators. Berkshire paid more than $112 for some shares last
month.  Business Minds  Buffett has said that Weschler and fellow investment
manager Todd Combs run their portfolios independently of him and
that he decides which companies Berkshire buys. He has also said
that the stock pickers have the kinds of  “business minds”  that
could help the next Berkshire CEO weigh acquisitions.  Berkshire’s cash hoard was  $47.8 billion  as of Sept. 30.
Buffett is hunting for larger acquisitions after spending about
$9 billion last year to acquire engine-additives maker Lubrizol
Corp. and more than $10 billion buying stock in International
Business Machines Corp.  Berkshire’s  equity portfolio  is led by a stake in  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO)  valued at more than $15 billion and a  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
holding worth about $14 billion. DaVita is Berkshire’s 11th-
largest holding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
yesterday.  Berkshire’s holding in DaVita surpassed 10 percent in
September Buffett’s firm certified in a filing that it didn’t
plan to influence management or stage a takeover. Passing that
threshold forced the company to disclose subsequent purchases.
That transparency may keep Berkshire from making a bid for the
entire company, said Funtleyder.  “They’re not going to play some weird game where they’re
going to keep filing and run up the price,” he said. “I would
assume the more work they do on the company and the industry,
the more they like it, the more they buy.”  Peter Grauer, the chairman of Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of  Bloomberg News , has served on DaVita’s board of
directors since 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  