-- Berlusconi Calls Spread a ‘Scam,’ Says Monti Led by Germany
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-12-11T14:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/berlusconi-calls-spread-a-scam-says-monti-beholden-to-germany.html
Former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi 
said Italy’s  bond yield  difference with  Germany  is a
“scam” and Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s policies have made the
economy worse than when he was in power.  “Monti’s government has followed the Germany-centric
policy that  Europe  has tried to impose on other states and it
has produced a crisis that is much worse than when we were in
power,” the 76-year-old billionaire said in an interview today
on Canale 5 television, controlled by his  Mediaset SpA (MS)  broadcast
company.  Berlusconi said the excessive focus on the difference
between Italian bonds and comparable German bunds was used to
bring down his government a year ago. That  gap  reached a euro-
era record 575.6 basis points on Nov. 9, 2011, days before he
resigned and Monti was appointed to lead an unelected government
of non-politicians.  “We should stop talking about this scam. We never used to
talk about it; why does it matter?” Berlusconi said about the
spread. “It has been used to try to bring down a majority
government voted by the Italians. Behind the crisis there has
been a German strategy,” he said.  Monti Resignation  Berlusconi is stepping up his anti-European rhetoric since
announcing he would seek the premiership for a sixth time and
breaking with the Monti government, prompting the premier to
announce his intention to resign.  Italy ’s risk premium has
widened 40 basis points in the past week to 342 basis points as
Berlusconi’s return upended the Italian political landscape.  Italian bonds gained today, recovering some of yesterday’s
decline. The 10-year yield fell 7 basis points to 4.75 percent,
after jumping 29 basis points yesterday in the first day of
trading after Monti announced his intention to resign.  Giorgio Squinzi, head of employer’s lobby Confindustria,
responded by saying that “the spread is important because it
directly impacts the cost of our public debt,” he said in  Rome 
today.  Italy spends about 5 percent of gross domestic product
funding the euro-region’s second-biggest debt, currently at more
than 126 percent of GDP. The Treasury will need to sell more
than 400 billion euros ($519 billion) in bills and bonds next
year to cover maturities and finance the deficit.  Budget Vote  Monti said on Dec. 8 that he will submit his resignation
after the 2013 budget law is passed. Senate leaders set that
budget vote for Dec. 18, news agency Ansa reported. That will
allow the Chamber of Deputies to give it final approval by the
end of next week. President Giorgio Napolitano will then
dissolve Parliament, with Monti probably remain acting premier
until the election.  The general elections may be held either Feb. 17 or Feb.
24, Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri said yesterday in
Rome.  The former European Union competition commissioner said
yesterday he’s not considering running in the elections at the
moment. Monti may reverse that pledge, said  Riccardo Barbieri ,
chief European economist at Mizuho International Plc in  London .  Monti “cannot declare his intentions at this stage, as
that may endanger the final ratification of Italy’s Stability
Law -- the 2013 budget -- and of other urgent legislation before
parliament is dissolved,” Barbieri said.  Lobbying Monti  Monti is being lobbied to engage in the campaign by a
coalition of centrist parties that support his overhaul of the
Italian economy. Ferrari SpA Chairman Luca Cordero di
Montezemolo has formed a political party to run on a pro-Monti
platform and has been in talks with the Union of Centrists and
the Future and Liberty for Italy party to form a coalition.  “If a credible centrist alliance is formed over the next
two weeks or so, and assuming that other European capitals keep
urging him to stay on as prime minister, Mr. Monti may be
persuaded to accept the nomination to prime ministerial
candidate of the centrist parties,” Barbieri wrote.  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party, which according to a
Dec. 7 poll by the SWG Institute would get less than 14 percent
in elections, is trying to broaden its appeal by rebuilding an
alliance with the  Northern League  and the party may change its
name before the vote, Berlusconi said today.  “People of Liberty is a very beautiful name, but everybody
uses PDL, an acronym that doesn’t transmit emotion,” Berlusconi
said.  Berlusconi also said that former members of the National
Alliance party that are now part of the PDL, may break away and
form a new party, which would help create a broader right-of-
center bloc in the election. Berlusconi said he supported the
move as the current election law rewards the coalition with the
most votes rather than the party with the biggest support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at o
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  