-- Biggest Iowa Borrowing Fueled by Natural-Gas Plunge: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-12-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/biggest-iowa-borrowing-fueled-by-natural-gas-plunge-muni-credit.html
A 75 percent drop in natural-gas
prices since 2008 and demand for fertilizer from  Iowa ’s farms
are powering the top U.S. corn producer’s biggest municipal bond
sale in almost four decades.  The Iowa Finance Authority plans to offer $1.2 billion in
debt as soon as today to help fund the construction of a $1.4
billion nitrogen fertilizer plant in the southeastern part of
the state by  Orascom Construction Industries (OCIC) ,  Egypt ’s biggest
publicly traded company.  The project is the state’s second-largest private
investment. After neighboring Illinois tried to lure the
venture, Iowa made its incentives package the largest it’s
given, at $59.1 million. States competing for revenue offer more
than $11 billion annually in tax credits, grants, loans and
reimbursements to spur employment, according to a  report  from
Good Jobs First, a Washington nonprofit.  “This project not only creates jobs in an area of our
state that really needs it, it is also helpful to the farmers,”
said Tina Hoffman, a spokeswoman in  Des Moines  for the Iowa
Economic Development Authority, which awarded the credits. “To
be able to check those boxes all at the same time with one
project is a big deal.”  Timing Benefits  The venture will benefit from the lowest yields in a
generation in the $3.7 trillion muni market. The debt will be
sold into the short-term market as tax-exempt securities due in
one year and rated AAA yield 0.2 percent, about one-third below
the average since 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The plant, Orascom’s second in the U.S., will be near
Wever, in a county along the  Mississippi . It will also take
advantage of a decline in the price of natural gas, a fertilizer
component, as supply has increased from hydraulic fracturing.
Natural gas traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  is down
about three-quarters from the 2008 high of $13.694 per million
British thermal units.  Orascom isn’t alone in tapping this market.  CF Industries
Holdings (CF) , a manufacturer and distributor of fertilizer based in
Deerfield, Illinois, is embarking on a $1.7 billion expansion of
a plant in Sioux City, Iowa. The plan, announced in November,
surpassed the Orascom project as the state’s biggest private
investment, Hoffman said.  Farmers’ Savings  Iowa is the biggest corn-producing state and the largest
consumer of nitrogen-based fertilizer, according to Orascom.
Omar Darwazah, Orascom’s investor relations manager in Cairo,
declined to offer an immediate comment on the project.  Farmers in the Hawkeye State will save $749 million annually
from cheaper local fertilizer prices when the Orascom plant is
running, after an anticipated completion in 2015, said Hoffman.  To help fund construction, the finance authority is acting
as a conduit for the enterprise, locally called the Iowa
Fertilizer Company, to sell Midwestern Disaster Area bonds. The
securities were created to promote economic recovery in Iowa
counties declared disaster areas in 2008 after floods and
tornados.  The program is available until Jan. 1, and with the
issuance the state will have used its $2.6 billion allocation,
said Lori Beary, community development director for the
authority in Des Moines.  38 Years  The $1.2 billion deal would be the biggest from an issuer
in the state since at least 1974, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The proceeds will be invested in securities issued by the
 U.S. Treasury  and held in escrow until they’re used to buy the
debt from holders April 12, according to the offering statement.
The notes are rated A-1+,  Standard & Poor’s  top short-term
rating. The company will remarket the debt and be responsible
for payments to bond holders, Beary said.  The borrowing may absorb cash from maturing securities,
said Jim Colby, who helps oversee $2 billion as senior muni
strategist and portfolio manager at Van Eck Global in  New York .
Investors will receive about $21 billion this month from
maturing munis and will be looking to reinvest, according to
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  “It’s a huge amount of money coming due this month,”
Colby said. “Certainly more than enough to accommodate a deal
of this size.”  Keeping Up  Orascom also won $1.6 million in grants and loans and $57.5
million in tax credits, which may increase to $107.5 million by
2015.  The state increased its February offer of $31.5 million in
credits after  Illinois  lawmakers suggested incentives to lure
the plant, Hoffman said. The project is expected to create 165
permanent jobs and more than 2,000 construction-related jobs,
Hoffman said.  A facility such as a fertilizer plant may result in only
modest increases in jobs, said Greg LeRoy, executive director of
Good Jobs First, which seeks to make economic development
subsidies accountable and effective. “The ripple effects are
very limited.”  Yet in Iowa, where the 5.1 percent jobless rate in October
beat the 7.9 percent national average, officials said they had
no choice but to fight for the venture.  “Every one of the 50 states is competing,” Hoffman said.
“Leveling that tax playing field is something we’re
participating in, so that we’re not losing out.”  Following is a pending sale:  CALIFORNIA POLLUTION CONTROL FINANCING AUTHORITY plans to
sell about $781 million in revenue bonds as soon as this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Part of the proceeds
will be used to construct a desalination plant and a pipeline in
San Diego County. (Added Dec. 10)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  