-- Billionaire Mittal Revives Bharti Bond Sale: Corporate India
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-12-12T06:08:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/billionaire-mittal-revives-bharti-bond-sale-corporate-india.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s biggest
telecom company, will revive a plan to sell its first bonds to
reduce pressure on cash flows with 508 billion rupees ($9.3
billion) of loans due in the next four years.  The company, controlled by billionaire Sunil Mittal, may
start the process to sell the debt in the “coming quarter,”
 Akhil Gupta , a director at India’s biggest wireless operator,
said in an interview in Mumbai. The company had a total debt of
690 billion rupees as of March 31, the most among India’s 13
telecom operators.  The proposed bond sale will help Bharti extend the average
maturity of its  debt , which the company borrowed from banks for
its $9 billion acquisition in  Africa  and for rights to use
airwaves at home, and help the mobile-phone operator improve
cash flow that dropped 21 percent in the year ended March 31.
Bharti has  missed  analyst earnings estimates for 11 straight
quarters as intensifying competition in the world’s second-
largest wireless market pulled call rates to a penny a minute.  “It’s positive that they will be able to extend the
maturity,” said Mehul Sukkawala, an analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s  in Mumbai, who rates the company’s credit BB+, the first
 non-investment  grade. Additional funds will allow them to use
free operating  cash flow  to reduce debt and “allow them to
refinance in the future.”  Yields on Bharat Petroleum Corp. 4.625 percent dollar notes
maturing October 2022, and rated BBB- by Fitch Ratings, a
similar level as Bharti, traded at 4.4 percent, according to
Trace, the price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Borrowing Leeway  “It makes sense for Bharti to reprice some of the loans,
with new bonds,” said Hemant Dharnidharka, Bangalore-based head
of credit research at SJS Markets Ltd. “If they can convert
loans into bonds, they will have leeway to borrow more.”  Bharti Airtel’s  shares  have dropped 8 percent this year,
making it the third-worst performer on the benchmark BSE India
 Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  this year. They rose 0.3 percent to 315.1 rupees
at 10:58 a.m. in Mumbai.  The operator will continue to reduce debt “organically,”
Gupta, the managing director of Bharti Airtel’s tower unit, said
yesterday. Vodafone India Ltd. had a net debt of 300 billion
rupees, Chief Executive Officer Marten Pieters said last month.  Bharti Airtel, 32.3 percent  owned  by Singapore
Telecommunications Ltd., plans to reduce the ratio of its  net
debt  to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and taxes
to 2 from 2.55 over the next 12 to 18 months, Gupta said.  Profit Drop  Bharti’s profit may  drop  15 percent to 36.3 billion rupees
in the year ending March 31, according to the median estimate of
45 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That will be the third
straight annual drop in net income.  Interest expense  at Bharti increased 50 percent in the 12
months to March 31, while free cash flow dropped 21 percent to
56.4 billion rupees.  The company will begin to restructure some of its debt with
the  bond issue  after completing the listing of the tower unit,
 Bharti Infratel Ltd. (BHIN) , this year, Gupta said.  Bharti Airtel had planned the bond sale in April 2011,
according to a statement by  Fitch Ratings , which rated its $750
million debt. In November the same year, the company said it
planned to raise as much as $1 billion.  “They should be able to raise the funds if the spreads are
attractive,” said SJS Markets’ Dharnidharka.  “The sooner the
better, as there’s enough demand for Indian debt.”  Bicycle Parts  Mittal, 55, who started his career making bicycle parts in
1976, is seeking to raise as much as 45.3 billion rupees in the
IPO of Bharti Infratel. The share sale will provide an exit for
companies including Temasek Holdings Pte, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Citigroup Inc., which bought a $1 billion stake in
2007.  The unit will use 10.9 billion rupees to add 4,813 towers,
according to the company’s  prospectus . It will use 12.1 billion
rupees to upgrade and replace existing towers.  “There is so much data growth in  India  that is going to
drive tower tenancy going forward,” Gupta said. “For the
existing operators who are rolling out 3G, to cover the same
area with data that they’re covering with 2G, they will need
many more towers.”  Indus Towers  The company hired Standard Chartered Plc, JPMorgan,
Barclays Plc, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Enam Securities
Pvt., HSBC Holdings Plc, Kotak Mahindra Capital Co., Deutsche
Bank AG and UBS AG for the tower unit sale.  The initial share sale of another venture Indus Towers
Ltd., will be delayed until after a “cool-off” period of six
months to one year following the Bharti Infratel share sale,
Gupta said. Indus Towers’ partners include Vodafone India Ltd.
and  Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA)   Mittal’s net worth is estimated at $6.9 billion, according
to the Bloomberg Billionares Index. His 27 percent stake in
Bharti Airtel is worth almost $6 billion today.  Bharti Airtel on May 24 agreed to buy 49 percent of
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s fourth-generation wireless venture, which owns
licenses to operate in four telecom zones including the nation’s
two largest cities. Bharti, based in  New Delhi , also
participated in the 4G auction in 2010, agreeing to pay 33.1
billion rupees for permits in the states of Maharashtra,
Karnataka, Punjab and Kolkata.  ‘Growing Markets’  Bharti bid 123 billion rupees in the 2010 auction of 3G
wireless permits to introduce faster wireless services and tap
India’s growing market for data services like streaming video
and songs. The mobile-phone carrier is also investing more in
its Africa operations after buying assets on the continent from
 Kuwait ’s Mobile Telecommunications Co. the same year.  India’s wireless market is forecast by research firm
Gartner Inc. to surpass 872 million active users by the end of
2015, compared with 699 million  active mobile subscribers  in
September, according to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of
India.  “They are present in growing markets,” said S&P’s
Sukkawala. “If they are able to improve their operating
performance, that will provide them with additional cash
flows.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  