-- BlackRock’s Fink Says He’s ‘Very Bullish’ on U.S. Economy
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s ,   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-12-11T17:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/blackrock-s-larry-fink-says-he-s-very-bullish-on-u-s-economy.html
     Dec. 11 (Bloomberg) -- BlackRock Inc.’s Laurence D. Fink,
who heads the world’s largest asset manager, said he’s “very
bullish” on the U.S. economy because corporations have
strengthened balance sheets and lawmakers will probably agree on
a deal to avoid automatic tax increases and spending cuts.  “Our corporations are in fabulous shape with $1.7 trillion
in cash,” Fink, chief executive officer of New York-based
BlackRock, said today in an interview with Erik Schatzker and
 Stephanie Ruhle  on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.” “I
don’t believe you’re going to see that much  default risk  in the
next few years.”  Fink said he’s optimistic that lawmakers will find a
resolution next week to the fiscal cliff, a metaphor Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  used to refer to more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to take effect in
January if Congress doesn’t act.  Fink has said he’s bullish on the U.S. economy over the
economic cycle because the country has a relatively strong
banking system, the housing market is improving and a large
supply of natural gas will create jobs. His optimism contrasts
with a forecast by Pacific Investment Management Co., manager of
the world’s largest mutual fund, which today said global growth
will be hampered next year by a slowdown in the U.S.  Pimco’s Forecast  Growth in the U.S. will drop to 1.25 to 1.75 percent in
2013 from 2.2 percent in the four quarters ended Sept. 30
because of “a policy mix of untimely fiscal tightening and
increasingly ineffective monetary easing,” Saumil Parikh, a
portfolio manager who leads  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco’s cyclical forum, said in a December report posted on the
firm’s website today.  Economists predict 2 percent growth for the U.S. in 2013
for the full year, according to the average of 79 responses in a
Bloomberg survey.  A stalemate in Washington in the fiscal policy dispute
probably would lead to a recession in the first half of 2013,
according to the Congressional Budget Office.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday he was ready to come
to an agreement, and House Speaker  John Boehner  issued milder
statements, signaling a potential thaw.  “I think we will find a solution,” Fink, whose firm
manages $3.67 trillion in assets, said in the interview. “I
actually believe that the Republicans understand I would say the
nation’s consensus that we have to raise upper income taxes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  