-- BlackRock Secures Premium in Dana Gas Sukuk Revamp: Arab Credit
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-12-11T08:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/blackrock-secures-premium-in-dana-gas-sukuk-revamp-arab-credit.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM) 
will receive a premium on their  Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  sukuk holdings
after the fuel producer finished an agreement to revamp $920
million of Islamic bonds. Dana shares soared 10 percent.  Dana Gas, which missed sukuk payments in October, said
yesterday it will split $850 million of debt into convertible
bonds and an ordinary sukuk and pay creditors $70 million in
cash. The five-year convertible bonds will pay a profit rate of
7 percent and the ordinary sukuk 9 percent. That compares with
7.5 percent on the original notes and a yield of 6.55 percent
for the BofA Merrill Lynch All Maturity Global High Yield Index.  “The proposed restructuring terms are quite favorable for
Dana Gas’ sukukholders as they ensure preservation of initial
capital while also provide a small upside in pricing,”
Apostolos Bantis, a credit analyst at Commerzbank AG in  London ,
said by e-mail yesterday. “There is still value in Dana Gas’s
assets and the company’s longer term prospects are positive.”  Dana Gas, based in the United Arab Emirates city of
Sharjah, said this month it received $48 million from the
Kurdish government in  Iraq , one of two regions where payment
delays forced the natural gas producer to restructure the debt.
Egypt, where political unrest ate up more than 50 percent of the
government’s foreign-currency reserves, has also been settling
payments for current production, Dana Gas said.  Shares Jump  Dana Gas’s sukuk rose 2.4 percent yesterday to 80.07 cents
on the dollar after dropping to a 2012 low of 67.87 cents Nov.
2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the
notes plunged 197 basis points, or 1.97 percentage points, in
November, the biggest monthly decline in more than three years,
to 9.56 percent after the company reached a preliminary deal
with bondholders, the data show.  The convertible sukuk will be exchanged for  shares  at a 50
percent premium to the 75-day volume-weighted average price
starting Dec. 1. The conversion price won’t be lower than 75
fils or higher than 1 dirham, nearly half the old conversion
price of 1.93 dirhams a share.  The shares jumped 10 percent, poised for the biggest gain
since December 2005, to 44 fils at 12:01 p.m. in  Abu Dhabi ,
trimming this year’s decline to 2.2 percent. The benchmark ADX
General Index has gained 9.1 percent in 2012.  More Collateral  “The terms of the debt restructuring are favorable to Dana
Gas and its shareholders,” investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE wrote in a report yesterday. “Crucially, the deal will not
further dilute existing shareholders, beyond existing levels
from the old sukuk and also gives little in the way of added
security against the new debt.”  Dana Gas will boost the collateral on the new sukuk by $300
million, including money owed to it for gas produced in Egypt
and certain U.A.E. assets, it said in yesterday’s statement. The
company will have the option to pay down the outstanding notes
before maturity on Oct. 31, 2017.  The agreement is “positive for the creditors because there
is no reduction in the principle amount and the process was done
relatively quickly,” Abdul Kadir Hussain, chief executive
officer at Mashreq Capital DIFC in Dubai, said by phone
yesterday. “The cost is fair because this is a company that
went into forced restructuring and so it should pay more than
the market average.”  Still, Dana Gas’ ability to service and ultimately pay the
debt back rests on whether it can successfully make its
operations in  Egypt  and Kurdistan “fully cash generative,” he
said. The company is still owed $200 million in Egypt from 2011,
it said this month.  ‘Good Development’  “It’s a good development that they were able to arrive at
a resolution, but it’s not clear to me that they’re out of the
woods and that they will be able to honor the terms of the
restructuring in the long term,” Yaser Abushaban, director of
asset management at Emirates Investment Bank said by phone
yesterday.  Dana Gas reported a 27 percent decline in third quarter
profit to $29 million and 12 percent drop in net revenue.  Full-
year profit  may rise 12 percent to 565 million dirhams ($154
million) according to the mean estimate of five analysts on
Bloomberg.  The gas producer will call a shareholders meeting in the
first quarter of 2013 to approve the revised terms and expects
the transaction to be completed by the second quarter, it said.
The ad-hoc committee of sukuk holders, which included BlackRock
and Ashmore, hold a majority of the sukuk and will vote in favor
of the deal, it said.  ‘Equitable Balance’  Ashmore press spokeswoman Gay Collins didn’t immediately
respond to a voice-mail message. BlackRock spokesman Jonathan
Mullen declined to comment. Deutsche Bank AG, Blackstone Group
LP and Latham & Watkins LLP advised Dana Gas on the
restructuring, while Moelis & Co. and law firm Linklaters LLP
represented sukuk-holders.  “The restructuring package provides an equitable balance
of terms to both shareholders and creditors,” said Gus Chehayeb, Dubai-based research director for the  Middle East  and
North Africa at investment bank Exotix Ltd. “The deal strikes a
balance between both sides, which is important as shareholders
still have to approve it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  