-- Blind Banker Loses RBS Discrimination Lawsuit at U.K. Tribunal
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-12-11T13:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/blind-banker-loses-rbs-discrimination-lawsuit-at-u-k-tribunal.html
A blind former  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  banker, who had to quit after his sight
deteriorated, lost a discrimination lawsuit seeking disability
benefits worth about 500,000 pounds ($804,500).  RBS’s actions were “a proportionate means of achieving a
legitimate aim,” employment judge NS Walker said in a written
decision rejecting Paul Ryb’s claim, dated Nov. 19. The tribunal
doesn’t give out judges’ first names.  Ryb, a telecommunications equity salesman, said the
bank had denied him the full amount owed under a disability-
insurance plan.  Bankers suing their former employees have had a run of
defeats at London’s specialist employment courts. Fired UBS AG
trader Ramon Braga lost an unfair dismissal case in July when a
judge found he manipulated security prices, while ex- Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  banker Edward Willems failed to get any compensation
in his April whistle-blowing suit.  Ryb, who is legally blind, was “shocked and angry” when
RBS said he’d get 132,000 pounds a year, not the 158,400 pounds
he was expecting under the disability plan, according to his
witness statement from the case.  Ryb’s lawyer John Turnbull and RBS spokeswoman Linda Harper
didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  It was his second lawsuit alleging unfair treatment by a
bank. Ryb also sued his former employer  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  in
2009 after claiming he was fired for complaining that its
clients were being misled. That claim ended in a confidential
settlement, the details of which weren’t disclosed in the RBS
case.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  