-- Boehringer Sued by Hundreds Over Bleeding Tied to Pradaxa
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-12-11T05:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/boehringer-sued-by-hundreds-over-bleeding-tied-to-pradaxa.html
Harold Asher never thought to ask
why his wife’s doctors prescribed Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s
blood thinner  Pradaxa  after she recovered from a stroke.  Barbara Jean Asher took Pradaxa for three months to cut her
risk of suffering another stroke. Then, in June 2011, she was
rushed to a hospital with internal bleeding that proved fatal,
her family said in a lawsuit blaming Ingelheim, Germany-based
Boehringer for her death. Asher, 72, a grandmother from a suburb
of Palm Springs,  California , died when doctors couldn’t stop the
hemorrhaging, the family said.  “My generation, you do what your doctor tells you,”
Harold Asher, 77, said in a telephone interview on her switch to
Pradaxa from an older type of blood thinner. “You don’t ask any
questions.”  Hundreds of patients and their families are questioning
whether Boehringer executives knew Pradaxa posed a deadly risk
to some patients when they brought the drug to the U.S. market
in October 2010. Unlike older blood thinners, researchers said,
Pradaxa has no antidote to reverse its effects, which can lead
to so-called bleed-out deaths.  Pradaxa has generated more than $1 billion in sales
worldwide for closely held Boehringer, the world’s biggest
family-owned drugmaker. Researchers have found it more effective
at preventing strokes than older competitors, including  Bristol-
Myers Squibb (BMY)  Co.’s  Coumadin .  Pradaxa has been linked to more than 500 U.S. deaths over a
two-year period, and Boehringer now faces more than 150 suits
over claims that it sold the drug knowing the medicine could
cause bleed-outs among some patients, plaintiffs’ lawyers said.  Suits Filed  The drugmaker probably will face thousands more claims over
the medicine in coming years, the attorneys said.  Boehringer reported Oct. 2 that 120 suits had been filed in
federal court by then. Another 34 federal cases have been added
since, most in southern Illinois, according to court records.
About a dozen additional Pradaxa claims are pending in
state courts.  Boehringer officials acted “appropriately and
responsibly” when developing and marketing Pradaxa and believe
the drug has a “positive benefit-risk profile,”  Emily Baier , a
U.S. spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement  “Boehringer Ingelheim believes the product liability
lawsuits filed against the company regarding Pradaxa are without
merit,” she said. The company will defend every case, she said.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved Pradaxa in
2010 as a safe and effective alternative to 58-year-old
Coumadin, a brand of  warfarin , for preventing strokes caused by
blood clots.  Aspirin, Warfarin  Doctors routinely relied on aspirin and warfarin to help
prevent strokes in 2.2 million Americans with an irregular
heartbeat known as  atrial fibrillation , for example. Warfarin,
developed as a rat poison, was approved by the FDA as a
medication in June 1954.  Bristol-Myers began selling it as a blood thinner under the
name Coumadin. The drug is now sold cheaply as a generic.
Doctors were  eager  for an alternative that didn’t require
regular blood tests to ensure correct dosing.  Since Pradaxa doesn’t require as much monitoring, sales
skyrocketed. It has racked up about 1.13 billion euros
($1.48 billion) in sales worldwide over almost two years
starting in 2011, Boehringer executives said in earnings reports
and an e-mailed statement.  In April, the company said operating income in 2011 rose
20 percent, from 1.9 billion euros to 2.27 billion euros as
Pradaxa sales increased.  FDA Reports  Concerns about Pradaxa’s safety surfaced soon after U.S.
doctors began prescribing it.  FDA officials  said they received
 reports  of 542 deaths and 3,781 side-effect incidents tied to
the drug in 2011.  The drug generated more reports of injury or death than any
of the 800 medicines monitored by the Institute of Safe
Medication Practices, a Horsham, Pennsylvania-based  nonprofit 
group that studies medication use.  Boehringer acknowledged in November 2011 that Pradaxa had
been linked to 260 deaths worldwide after a German magazine
reported European regulators received reports of 256 deaths tied
to the drug.  Three doctors in New Zealand sent a letter to the New
England Journal of Medicine in March saying a two-month audit of
medical records in that country found 78 bleeding incidents tied
to Pradaxa. The drug went on the market in New Zealand in 2011.  Japanese Regulators  In August, Japanese regulators  ordered  Boehringer officials
to warn physicians that patients using the version of Pradaxa
sold in that country faced bleeding risks and no antidote was
available to reverse its anti-coagulation effects.  The lack of an antidote makes Pradaxa “a truly defective
drug,” said  Hunter Shkolnik , a New York-based lawyer who has
sued Boehringer on behalf of Pradaxa patients and their
families. “There’s no way you can reasonably market this as a
safer alternative to other blood thinners.”  Giving warfarin patients Vitamin K can reverse the drug’s
effects and help stop bleed-out deaths, according to  a report 
published by the National Institutes of Health.  Suits filed against Boehringer in federal courts across the
country have been consolidated for pretrial information
exchanges before U.S. District Judge David Herndon in East St.
Louis,  Illinois .  Tor Hoerman , a Chicago lawyer on a five-member plaintiffs’
steering committee in the cases before Herndon, said the judge
has set the first case for trial in March 2014.  Plaintiff Panel  Other committee members include Mikal Watts, a Texas-based
plaintiffs’ lawyer, and  Michael London , a New York-based lawyer
for Pradaxa patients. Watts represents Asher’s family in its
suit against Boehringer over Pradaxa.  Hoerman said the drugmaker can expect to face as many as
4,000 suits comprising those before Herndon and in state courts
in  Delaware , California, Illinois and  Connecticut .  “The federal judge overseeing these cases understands the
need for an early trial, so he has put us on a fast track,”
Hoerman said. “That may help us get a quicker resolution of
claims that this drug harmed people.”  Boehringer officials said they have toughened warnings
about Pradaxa’s bleeding risks and point to reports issued in
October by the FDA and European health regulators backing
Pradaxa’s safety profile.  FDA regulators found the drug didn’t pose a higher bleeding
risk to patients than those faced by people taking warfarin.
European Medicines Agency officials have said they believe
Pradaxa’s benefits in reducing the chances of a stroke outweigh
its bleeding risks.  Boehringer Website  On a  website  about Pradaxa, Boehringer executives said that
some patients, including those older than 75 or those with
kidney problems, are at a higher bleeding risk while on the
drug. “Pradaxa can cause bleeding, which can be serious and
sometimes lead to death,” the drugmaker said on the site.  Boehringer is likely negotiate a global settlement to
resolve the claims, Carl Tobias, who teaches product-liability
law at the University of Richmond in  Virginia , said in a phone
interview.  “International drugmakers don’t have that much familiarity
with the U.S. justice system, and that means that many times
they aren’t as comfortable taking cases to trial as U.S.-based
pharma companies might be,” Tobias said.  “That often prompts companies like Boehringer to be more
quick to settle,” he said. “It will all come down to how much
Boehringer has to pay to make these Pradaxa claims go away.”  The case is In re Pradaxa Products Liability Litigation,
12-MD-2385, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Illinois
(East St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 