-- BofA Gives Advisers New Bonuses Tied to Funds-Growth Targets
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-12-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/bofa-gives-advisers-new-bonuses-tied-to-funds-growth-targets.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender, boosted bonuses for Merrill Lynch financial
advisers who steer clients to use more of the bank’s products.  Advisers who increase the flow of funds by at least 10
percent will be eligible for so-called strategic-growth awards
starting next year,  John Thiel , head of U.S. wealth management,
and John Hogarty, chief operating officer of the unit, said
yesterday in a presentation. An increase of at least $5 million
to $25 million in funds -- including deposits, investment
services, bank loans, mutual-funds and alternative investments -
- is needed to qualify for the program, Hogarty said.  “We’re creating significant opportunity for advisers
aligned to the strategy and focused on growing their
practices,” Hogarty said during the presentation.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the brokerage with the most financial
advisers, joined an industry push to boost the cross-selling of
lending products last week when it disclosed a change in its
wealth-management compensation plan. Bank of America, which
purchased Merrill Lynch in 2009, has sought to improve profit
without angering its brokerage corps by crimping compensation.  The first $10 million in funds growth at Merrill Lynch
triggers a bonus worth 5 basis points, or 0.05 percent of that
sum, Hogarty said. That swells to 10 basis points for $10
million to $50 million in new funds. Anything exceeding $50
million earns 3 basis points.  Bank of America previously had offered a so-called asset-
gathering bonus tied to total new  funds  that was capped at $50
million. The  Charlotte , North-Carolina-based firm won’t change
brokers’ so-called grid payout, usually the largest portion of
compensation, Hogarty said.  The lender also boosted the cash payout for retiring
financial advisers to 100 percent to 160 percent of their annual
production over four years, up from 70 percent to 80 percent, he
said. Merrill Lynch offers the awards to retiring advisers in an
effort to retain their clients.  Reuters reported on parts of the plan yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  