-- Bond Hoarders Squelch Trading in Record Issuance: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-12-11T16:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/bond-hoarders-squelch-trading-in-record-issuance-credit-markets.html
Corporate-bond  trading  is failing to
keep up with unprecedented issuance, accounting for the lowest
proportion of outstanding debt since at least 2005.  Average volumes of bonds changing hands each day this year
represent 0.29 percent of the market’s face value, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and Trace, the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority’s bond-price reporting system. That’s down
from 0.32 percent in 2011 and 0.5 in 2005.  The drop in trading underscores the complacency among
investors who funneled cash into bonds at what Bank of America
Corp. strategists in August said were reaching “bubble
levels.” The biggest banks, which traditionally have acted as a
backstop for the market during slumps, have  cut  the amount of
company bonds they own by 78 percent since the peak in 2007.  “If everyone headed to the exits at once, that could
really create a violent selloff,” said Anthony Valeri, a market
strategist in  San Diego  at  LPL Financial , which oversees $350
billion of assets. “Liquidity is one of my bigger fears for
2013. I don’t see the dealer community stepping up to slow the
downfall.”  Shriveled Inventories  While the average daily bond-trading volume has risen 8
percent from last year, the size of the market has swelled by 18
percent to approach $6 trillion, Trace and Bloomberg data show.  The biggest banks are reducing the amount of their own
money they use to facilitate bond trading as the Dodd-Frank Act
in the U.S. seeks to limit risk-taking. The 21 primary dealers
that trade with the  Federal Reserve  have cut their company-debt
holdings to $51.5 billion as of Nov. 28, down from $235 billion
in October 2007, Fed  data  show, after the 27-country  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  raised minimum  capital
requirements  in 2010.  “We’re going to be in a channel of low liquidity for a
prolonged period of time,” said Jason Rosiak, the head of
 portfolio management  at Pacific Asset Management, the  Newport
Beach , California-based affiliate of Pacific Life Insurance Co.
“We may get back a little bit more liquidity, but it will be
nothing like what it was during the go-go days.”  Crown Castle  Elsewhere in credit markets, Crown Castle International
Corp., the provider of infrastructure for wireless
communications, is planning to issue $1.5 billion of senior
secured debt to help fund a tender offer.  Abu Dhabi National
Energy Co. (TAQA) , the state-controlled power-and-oil company known as
Taqa, is said to have increased a revolving credit facility by
25 percent to $2.5 billion on lender demand for the deal.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell to the lowest level in more than seven weeks. The
Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a credit-
default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 2.7 basis points to a
mid-price of 92.8 basis points as of 11:31 a.m. in  New York , the
least since Oct. 18, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings dropped 4.4 to 115.1.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, fell 0.81 basis point to 10.94 basis points.
The gauge narrows when investors favor assets such as corporate
bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety of
 government securities .  Crown Castle is planning to sell $500 million of notes due
in 2017 and $1 billion of bonds maturing in 2023 through its CC
Holdings GS V LLC unit, it said today in a statement. Proceeds
will fund a tender offer for its 7.75 percent senior secured
securities due 2017, and to redeem any of the debt that remains
outstanding. The rest of the proceeds will go toward a tender
for its 9 percent debentures due in 2015, the company said.  Crown Castle last sold debt in October, issuing $1.65
billion of 5.25 percent, senior unsecured notes due in January
2023 to yield 363 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Taqa Credit  Taqa’s facility comprises three- and five-year credit lines
and is due to sign this week, according to three people familiar
with the situation, who asked not to be named because the terms
are private. Sixteen banks joined coordinator Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. and the nine other bookrunners in
syndication, two of the people said. Taqa originally sought $2
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The shorter-dated portion pays interest at 75 basis points
more than benchmark rates and the longer piece has a margin of 1
percentage point more, the people said. The debt will replace a
$2 billion credit facility maturing in December 2013 that paid a
margin of 100 basis points, the data show.  Bonds of Caracas-based  Petroleos de Venezuela , or PDVSA,
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers for a second day, with 82 trades of $1
million or more as of 11:27 a.m. in New York, Trace data show.  PDVSA’s $6.15 billion of 8.5 percent bonds due in November
2017 have surged 9.6 cents to 98.6 cents on the dollar in the
past month, with the yield falling to 8.86 percent from 11.5,
amid speculation President  Hugo Chavez  will be unable to
complete his third term.  Chavez Speculation  Chavez traveled to Cuba for more surgery after urging
Venezuelans to vote for Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  if he is
unable to remain in office, marking the first time he’s
indicated who he wants to succeed him since falling ill in June
2011. Speculation his health was deteriorating following his re-
election mounted after he spent 12 days in Cuba as part of a 21-
day absence from public view that ended Dec. 7.  Corporate bond trading volumes are declining as the biggest
banks reduce their balance sheets and eliminate more than
300,000 financial industry jobs in the past two years.  “The broker-dealers are using less capital-at-risk in
their trading platforms due to regulation and human capital,”
Pacific Asset’s Rosiak said. “When you’ve lost a significant
amount of human capital over the last five years, you’re less
apt to empower people to take on significant amounts of risk.”  Less Leverage  An average of $16.93 billion of investment-grade and high-
yield bonds traded every day this year as the value of
outstanding corporate bonds rose to $5.72 trillion, according to
Finra and Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. That
compares with last year’s average daily trading volume of $15.73
billion with $4.86 trillion of debt outstanding, the data show.  Much less of the corporate  bond market  is held by  hedge
funds , “and where it is held by hedge funds, there is less
leverage,” or borrowed money to fund the trades, contributing
to lower turnover, said  Ashish Shah , the head of global credit
investment at New York-based AllianceBernstein LP, which
oversees $245 billion in fixed-income assets.  At the same time, he said, corporate pensions are buying
investment-grade company debt to match their assets with their
liabilities, giving the market generally more stable buyers.  Investors are holding onto the debt as U.S. bond funds
receive a record $452 billion this year, causing yields on
investment-grade securities to drop to an unprecedented 2.73
percent on Nov. 8, EPFR Global and Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  Concerns ‘Steamrolled’  Concerns the slowing economy will suppress company earnings
and trigger an increase in defaults “have been steamrolled by
the renewed push to reach for yield,” Oleg Melentyev, a New
York-based credit strategist at Bank of America, said in an Aug.
14 report. Flows into credit funds “in some respect are
reaching bubble levels, never before breached in history,” he
wrote.  Dollar-denominated corporate bond issuance of $1.4 trillion
this year is up from $1.13 billion in 2011 and surpassed the
previous record of $1.24 billion in 2009, Bloomberg data show.  Corporate bonds have returned 11.2 percent this year, the
most since gaining 26 percent in 2009, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  “A lot of the new deals just get put away and then people,
quite frankly, hoard those bonds,” LPL’s Valeri said. “So you
don’t see a lot of trading, partly because of that, and the
other aspect being the regulatory environment.”  Concentrated Trading  Investors will continue to be willing to pay a premium for
liquidity, or the ability to trade bonds easily, and that demand
may intensify, Barclays Plc strategists led by Jeffrey Meli
wrote in their global credit outlook for 2013 titled “A Good
Bond is Hard to Find.”  While the trend of depressed market turnover persisted from
2011, “the dominant issue remains concentration of those
volumes,” they wrote in the note dated Dec. 7.  Half of investment-grade trading volume was in the bonds of
34 issuers, and 48 tickers in speculative-grade debt, said the
strategists, who attributed it in part to the rise of fixed
income exchange-traded funds that track “narrow benchmarks.”
Speculative-grade bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  “Unfortunately, in the near future, we do not expect an
increase in dealer balance sheets, which means that dealers are
likely to use their limited inventories for the most liquid
securities,” they wrote. “Investors that wish to implement
short-term market views will need to do so through the most
liquid parts of the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  