-- Bond Risk at Month High on Specter of Abe Spending: Japan Credit
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2012-12-11T02:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/bond-risk-at-month-high-on-specter-of-abe-spending-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s bond market is signaling
concern that a government run by Shinzo Abe will ramp up
spending to revive growth, adding to a debt burden already twice
the size of the nation’s economy.  The cost to protect Japanese  government bonds  against
nonpayment for five years rose every day last week, reaching 76
basis points, the highest level since Oct. 30, according to CMA
prices compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts on U.S. Treasuries were
at 37.5 basis points. The  extra yield  that investors demand to
hold 20-year JGBs instead of 10-year notes is hovering near a
13-year high, showing they are pricing in more long-term risk.  Abe’s Liberal  Democratic Party , leading the ruling
Democratic Party of Japan in opinion polls before the Dec. 16
elections, has called for a “large scale” extra budget to
support growth. Data yesterday confirmed the world’s third-
largest economy is in a technical recession, which could upend a
plan to double Japan’s sales tax by 2015.  “If Abe pursues pork-barrel type spending and therefore
has to increase bond issuance, a collapse of the JGB market
wouldn’t be a surprise,” said  Akihiko Inoue , chief strategist
at Mizuho Investors Securities　Co. in  Tokyo , one of the 25
primary dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales. “We’re
walking toward the day when bond yields will surge.”  The spread between yields on Japan’s 10- and 20-year
government bonds touched 98.7 basis points on Dec. 5, the widest
since March 1999. It has averaged at 74 basis points over the
past five years and was at 96 today.  Policy Platform  The LDP wants large-scale fiscal outlays to support the
economy and is calling for aggressive monetary easing by the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  to reach 2 percent inflation, according to  pledges 
on its website. Abe, the leader of the LDP and a former prime
minister, has also said that economic conditions next year will
determine whether the sales tax increase championed by sitting
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  will go ahead.  The LDP is favored to take a majority in the lower house of
parliament, the Nikkei newspaper  reported  on Dec. 6, citing its
nationwide opinion polls. Noda’s DPJ may lose more than half of
its seats, the newspaper reported.  Japan’s  gross domestic product  shrank an annualized 3.5
percent in the three months through September, the Cabinet
Office’s second estimate showed in Tokyo yesterday, matching a
preliminary reading. The government revised the previous quarter
to a 0.1 percent contraction, meeting the textbook definition of
a recession.  Yokohama City  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Yokohama City hired
Barclays Plc, Daiwa Securities Group Inc., and Nomura Holdings
Inc. to sell 20 billion yen in 10-year notes, Nomura said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday.  Kurosaki Harima Corp., a maker of bricks used by steel and
glassmakers, registered to sell up to 20 billion yen of bonds,
according to a filing yesterday with the Ministry of Finance.  Japan’s corporate notes returned 1.5 percent this year,
compared with a 2.3 percent gain on sovereign debt, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Company bonds worldwide
returned 10.7 percent, the data show.  Abe’s monetary stimulus calls have helped weaken the yen by
5 percent in the past month, the worst performance among the 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  of shares has
climbed about 10 percent since Nov. 13.  Yen Weakness  The Japanese currency was little changed at 82.40 per
dollar at 10:31 a.m. in Tokyo, after rallying 0.2 percent to
82.36 yesterday. It touched 82.84 on Nov. 22, the weakest since
April 4, and last year reached a postwar high of 75.35.  Japan’s benchmark bonds aren’t signaling any immediate
concern about new spending or debt issuance following the
election. The nation’s 10-year  note yield  slid half a basis
point, or 0.005 percentage point, to 0.69 percent today. It
reached a nine-year low of 0.685 percent last week. The all-time
low is 0.43 percent reached in June 2003.  The BOJ refrained on Nov. 20 from expanding its 66
trillion-yen ($801 billion) asset-purchase fund, its main policy
tool since cutting its overnight-rate target to between zero and
0.1 percent in October 2010. Policy makers will meet next on
Dec. 19-20.  “Political pressure for the BOJ to conduct aggressive
easing is inevitable,” said  Makoto Yamashita , chief rates
strategist in Tokyo at Deutsche Securities Inc. “The yield
curve is flattening from the short-end through 10-year bonds as
we aren’t in an environment where yields can rise.”  Japan is estimated to have public debt this year that’s
equivalent to 237 percent of its annual GDP, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . That’s the highest debt-to-GDP
ratio globally and compares with 107 percent for the U.S.  Outstanding Debt  Japan’s  outstanding borrowings  increased 0.7 percent to
983.3 trillion yen in the three months ended Sept. 30 from the
previous quarter, government figures show. The nation may need a
record 24.6 trillion yen to service debt in the year starting
April 2013, according to finance ministry projections.  Five-year credit-default swaps that insure Japan’s
sovereign debt dropped 1 1/2 basis points to 74.5 basis points
yesterday, according to CMA prices. That compared with 67.4
basis points touched on Nov. 30, the least since September 13
according to data from CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Lower swap premiums indicate improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while higher contracts signal the opposite.  “Depending on how the election results pan out, it could
put upward pressure on long-term  interest rates ,” said Tomo Kinoshita, chief economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Tokyo. The
supplementary budget is “basically a good idea but I also think
given the fiscal condition in Japan, it’s very important to
think about financial sustainability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  