-- Bovespa Rises to Seven-Week High as Vale Leads Producers Higher
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-12-11T21:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/bovespa-index-futures-advance-as-higher-commodities-boost-vale.html
The Bovespa index rose to a seven-
week high as Vale SA led raw-material producers higher on
optimism that a global economic recovery will boost demand for
Brazil’s commodity exports.  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore mining company, advanced
to the highest in three months as the MSCI Brazil/Materials
index rose the most among 10 industry groups.  Cia. Siderurgica (SID) 
Nacional SA led gains among steelmakers. OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA and LLX Logistica SA dropped after billionaire
 Eike Batista  denied a report saying he plans to sell stakes to
the national  development bank .  The Bovespa climbed 0.6 percent to 59,623.34 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo, the highest level since Oct. 18. Forty-
four stocks rose on the measure while 21 fell. The real weakened
0.1 percent to 2.0787 per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of 24 raw materials rose 0.1 percent after advancing as
much as 0.6 percent earlier after German investor confidence
increased more than analysts estimated.  “We’ve been seeing signs of a recovery in the global
economy, making investors more optimistic about the scenario for
Brazilian exporters next year,” Lucas Brendler, who helps
manage about 6 billion reais at Banco Geracao Futuro de
Investimentos, said by phone from  Porto Alegre .  Vale jumped 2 percent to 38.18 reais, the highest since
Sept. 18. CSN, as Cia. Siderurgica is known, gained 2.1 percent
to 11.50 reais, a one-month high.  German Confidence  Commodity producers account for 43 percent of the Bovespa’s
weighting.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, climbed
to 6.9 from minus 15.7 in November. Economists forecast a gain
to minus 11.5, according to the median of 38 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  “The German confidence data helped to boost global stocks,
and some of this optimism is spilling over  Brazil , especially
commodities producers,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee
220 million reais at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis,
Brazil, said in a phone interview.  OGX, the fourth-heaviest weighted stock on the Bovespa
 index , fell 2.9 percent to 4.70 reais. LLX lost 1.3 percent to
2.31 reais.  “Batista’s companies rose a lot yesterday on the back of
speculation that BNDES could bid, and after the denial they’re
erasing some of those gains,” Brugger said.  Minerva, JBS  EBX Group, Batista’s holding company, said yesterday
there’s no formal agreement to sell stakes in its units to
Brazil’s national development bank, known as BNDES. Veja
magazine reported on its website Dec. 8 that talks were
continuing.  Beef producers Minerva SA and  JBS SA (JBSS3)  tumbled after Russia
said it may halt imports from Brazil after tests showed an
animal in Parana state carried the agent that causes mad-cow
disease.  Minerva SA tumbled 4.5 percent to 10.02 reais, the lowest
price since Aug. 17. JBS lost 2.7 percent to 5.67 reais.  Russia’s food safety watchdog is considering a Brazilian
beef import ban because of a potential mad-cow disease threat,
said Alexei Alekseenko, spokesman for the service, known as
Rosselkhoznadzor.  Test Results  The Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture said Dec. 7 that
tests on a 13-year-old cow that died in the country’s southern
Parana state in 2010 showed it carried the causing agent of
bovine spongiform encephalopathy, the brain-wasting disease
known as mad cow. The animal didn’t develop the illness nor did
the agent trigger its death, which was caused by old age and
organ failure, according to the ministry.  Japan , the world’s third-largest beef importer, said on
Dec. 9 it halted purchases from Brazil.  The Bovespa has gained 14 percent from this year’s low on
June 5 as stimulus from central banks around the world eased
economic concern while borrowing costs at a record low in Brazil
boosted demand for equities. The index trades at 11 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters, in line
with the ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 7.58 billion reais stocks in Sao Paulo
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 7.19 billion reais this year through Dec. 10,
according to data compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  