-- BP Guilty Plea in Rig Crew Deaths Set for January Hearing
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/bp-guilty-plea-in-rig-crew-deaths-set-for-january-hearing.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s guilty plea in the 2010
deaths of 11 crew members of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig
in the  Gulf of Mexico  will be considered by a federal judge in
New Orleans on Jan. 29.  BP announced Nov. 15 that it reached a deal with the U.S.
 Justice Department  to plead guilty to 14 counts, including 11
for felony seaman’s manslaughter, and pay $4 billion to end all
criminal charges related to the largest offshore  oil spill  in
U.S. history.  U.S. District Judge Sarah S. Vance said yesterday she will
determine at the Jan. 29 hearing whether to “accept the plea
agreement and impose the agreed sentence or reject the agreement
and allow BP to withdraw its agreement to plead guilty.”  The court can only accept or reject the plea agreement,
Vance said in yesterday’s three-page order. “The court may not
become involved in plea negotiations,” she said.  BP’s settlement with the U.S. includes a record $1.26
billion criminal fine, which would be paid over five years. BP
agreed to five years’ probation and extensive monitoring of its
drilling operations, according to court papers.  Along with the criminal fine, the resolution with the
Justice Department includes a total of $2.4 billion that will be
paid to the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation over five years.
Another $350 million will be paid to the  National Academy of
Sciences  during that same period.  SEC Claims  Beyond the $4 billion criminal settlement, BP will pay an
additional $525 million to resolve claims by the Securities and
Exchange Commission that the London-based company underestimated
the size of the spill to bolster stock prices.  Scott Dean , a spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment on yesterday’s order. Michael Passman, a Justice
Department spokesman, also declined to comment.  BP agreed to plead  guilty  to 14 criminal counts, including
11 for felony manslaughter for the people who died when the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig exploded and sank, Vance said in
her order.  The  company  also pleaded guilty to one misdemeanor count
under the  Clean Water Act , one misdemeanor count under the
 Migratory Bird Treaty Act  and one felony count of obstruction of
Congress, she said.  Joint Memo  Vance ordered the U.S. and BP to file a joint memo on “why
they contend that the plea agreement adequately reflects the
seriousness of the offenses.” She also ordered the U.S.
Probation Office for the Eastern District of  Louisiana  to
conduct a presentence investigation to be presented to the court
two weeks before the hearing.  The U.S. government must inform victims of the hearing,
Vance said. She gave victims a Jan. 16 deadline to file written
submissions about the plea.  The U.S. last month also charged two BP well-site managers
with involuntary manslaughter and a former  executive  with
obstruction and false statements. The three men each pleaded not
guilty Nov. 28 in federal court in New Orleans.  The site managers, Robert Kaluza and  Donald Vidrine , who
supervised testing on the Macondo oil well were charged Nov. 15
with involuntary manslaughter, seaman’s manslaughter and Clean
Water Act violations. The U.S. alleges that Kaluza and Vidrine
ignored multiple indications that the well wasn’t secure before
the explosion.  Trial Date  A trial has been set for Feb. 4. Shaun Clarke, the Houston-
based defense attorney for Kaluza, filed a joint motion
yesterday with his co-defendant, asking the court to delay the
trial until late 2013. The defendants filed the motion “with
the consent of the prosecution,” Clarke said.  David Rainey , BP’s former vice president of exploration for
the Gulf of Mexico, was charged with obstruction of Congress and
making false statements related to the size of the oil spill.
The U.S. claims Rainey cherry-picked information from flow-rate
reports to make the spill seem less catastrophic than it was.  U.S. District Judge Kurt Engelhardt granted Rainey’s motion
on Dec. 10 to delay his trial, initially set for Jan. 28. The
judge said he agreed to the delay based on “the complexity of
this matter” and the need for Rainey to review “voluminous”
documents.  The criminal case is U.S. v. BP Exploration and Production
Inc., 12-00292, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana ( New Orleans ). The criminal cases against the
individuals are U.S. v. Kaluza, 12-cr-00265; and U.S. v. Rainey,
12-cr-00291, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans,  allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  