-- Brazilian Swap Rates Rise on Tombini Comments; Real Declines
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-12-11T20:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/brazilian-swap-rates-rise-on-tombini-comments-real-declines.html
Brazil ’s swap rates rose for a third
day as central bank President Alexandre Tombini reaffirmed plans
to hold off on further cuts in borrowing costs.  The contract due in January 2015 climbed six basis points,
or 0.06 percentage point, to 7.65 percent at close in Sao Paulo.
The real depreciated 0.1 percent to 2.0787 per  U.S. dollar .  Stability in monetary conditions is the best way to assure
inflation slows to the central bank’s target, Tombini said today
at a Senate hearing in Brasilia. Swap rates tumbled last week as
 Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4)  forecast policy makers will resume
cutting borrowing costs next year after a report showed gross
domestic product expanded in the third quarter at half the pace
economists forecast.  “He reaffirmed the idea that rates are going to remain
stable for a prolonged period,”  Andre Perfeito , the chief
economist at Gradual Investimentos, said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “This definitely buries the idea that there will be a
rate cut in the short term.”  Policy makers led by Tombini left the target lending rate
unchanged at a record low 7.25 percent last month, following 10
straight reductions. Traders use  interest-rate swaps  to bet on
the direction of borrowing costs.  Gross domestic product in the largest emerging economy
after  China  grew 0.9 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, less than half the 1.9 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, the statistics agency reported
on Nov. 30.  Rate Outlook  Swap rates show traders are betting that policy makers
won’t cut the target lending rate again before raising it, a
reversal from Dec. 7, when they projected a reduction by July.  Brazil’s annual rate of consumer prices as measured by the
IPCA gauge has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of the central
bank’s target range for 27 consecutive months. Yearly inflation
unexpectedly accelerated to 5.53 percent in November from 5.45
percent the month before, the statistics agency reported Dec. 7.  The real pared losses yesterday after Aldo Mendes, a
director at the central bank, said the currency is weaker than
models indicate it should be.  “The central bank has made it very clear that the currency
is making them uncomfortable,” Marcelo Fonseca, an economist at
M Safra & Co. DTVM in  Sao Paulo , said in a phone interview.
“They would like it to fluctuate within a band of 2 to 2.1 per
dollar, which doesn’t exacerbate inflation and helps industry be
more competitive.”  Weekly Rally  The real gained 2.9 percent last week, the biggest five-day
advance since January, as the central bank intervened after the
currency touched a three-year low Nov. 30. It also rose as the
government reduced the maturity of foreign loans subject to a 6
percent tax to one year from two years and exempted exporters
from the same level of tax on some borrowing.  The central bank sold $2.1 billion in currency swaps Dec. 3
and $1.6 billion on Nov. 23 to stem the real’s declines. From
August through October, the bank sold reverse currency swaps to
keep the real weaker than 2 per dollar.  Policy makers have swung in 2012 between selling currency
swaps aimed at preventing the real from depreciating too quickly
and offering reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by
keeping the real from strengthening.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  