-- Bush, Clinton, Bush, Obama, Bush? Or Clinton?
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-12-11T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/bush-clinton-bush-obama-bush-or-clinton-.html
As we consider the return of the
House of Clinton, we may be witnessing the start of the House of
Obama.  According to a  survey  in November, first lady Michelle Obama would beat incumbent Republican  Mark Kirk , 51 percent to
40 percent, in a hypothetical matchup for U.S. senator from
 Illinois  in 2016. The first lady has an approval rating of 60
percent in the state.  Not that Kirk has anything to worry about. When asked last
spring if she would ever run for president, Obama laughed  and
said , “Absolutely not.” One reason might be to avoid stupid
reporter tricks. Another might be that she has shown no
disposition toward the dark arts other than to support --
reluctantly at first, as she worried aloud about exposing her
young daughters to  Washington  -- her husband’s chosen
profession.  True, Obama is a lawyer like her Democratic predecessor in
the White House, and like  Hillary Clinton  she doesn’t stay home
and bake cookies. She gave a rip-snorting speech at the
Democratic convention in September. But she has stuck to
traditional first lady activities. No health-care initiatives or
Cabinet meetings for her. She is planting a garden, slimming
down our children and helping military families.  The very question, however, shows just how dynastic our
politics have become. The British royal family, and the
breathless response to the pregnancy of  Kate Middleton , has
nothing on us. We talk about the pernicious influence of money
in politics. But when it comes to pre-emptively shutting out the
competition, a family name may be more valuable than money.  Dynastic Duopoly  Who is going to take a good look at Joe Schmoe from
 Delaware  when state Attorney General  Beau Biden  decides to run
for the Senate? We survived only one session without a Kennedy
in Congress: Joe Kennedy III, the grandson of Robert F. Kennedy
and the son of former Representative Joe Kennedy II,  will take
office  in January.  Yet polls find the public largely indifferent to having the
same family pass high office from one to another. If former
 Florida  Governor Jeb Bush weren’t so sensible, and had his
brother George W. not been such an extraordinarily bad
president, Jeb would probably have run in 2008. Then we could
have faced the prospect of a Clinton (Hillary) or a Bush (Jeb)
succeeding a Bush (George W.) who’d succeeded a Clinton (Bill)
who’d succeeded a Bush (George H.W.).  Obama (Barack) may be the only break we get from this
dynastic do-si-do. In all likelihood, there is a Clinton or a
Bush on the horizon. The 2016 campaign is frozen until Hillary
announces her intentions, and Jeb’s lock on everyone’s attention
is almost as strong. There are lots of governors and senators
who should be on the short list for the presidency in 2016, but
I’m afraid I can’t quite remember their names right now.  We’re used to sons and brothers entering politics more than
wives. Hillary would be the first American to follow in the
shoes of  Imelda Marcos . And Jeb would make history as well, the
second of two sons and the first brother to be elected
president. The Bushes would be the first family to have three
presidents.  Is all this evidence of our lack of imagination? Or the
strength of good branding, in politics as elsewhere?  Chelsea Clinton  grew up in the White House, a searing experience that
she seems to be over. She shunned public life at first, but she
has gradually emerged as a TV reporter and a board member of her
father’s foundation and of the  Clinton Global Initiative . She
married the son of two former members of Congress.  And we are already talking about the fourth generation. On
the Republican side, there’s George P. Bush, son of Jeb, nephew
of George, grandson of George H.W. and great-grandson of
Prescott Bush, the senator from  Connecticut  who started this
political dynasty in the 1950s. George P. grew up in Florida but
went to college in  Texas , where he has just filed papers to run
for state office.  Marital Monopoly  Hillary Clinton was unthinkable as a senator until the
Monica Lewinsky scandal: She was generally an unpopular first
lady until she stood by her man. As she basked in the thanks of
a nation grateful for getting it through impeachment, her
popularity shot up, and she left the White House a year early to
run for senator from  New York , a state she’d only visited as a
tourist. Hillary may be the only woman in history to be rewarded
for a sexual favor she did not dispense.  Of course, the Obama White House is not the Clinton White
House, and  Michelle Obama  is not a likely candidate for office.
Hillary Clinton is, however, and everything that helped her 12
years ago could hurt her four years from now. As a former
senator and secretary of state, she is a global figure in her
own right. No more reflected power, or pity, for her.  Now Secretary Clinton will go back to the future, with her
international life disappearing and her domestic one returning
as she moves to be home alone with Bill. There will be no more
throwing back shots with reporters, dancing till the wee hours,
letting herself go because she’s  a rock star . She will be in
competition for attention with, and once again responsible for,
the actions of her husband -- as he will be with her.  The Big Dog brought her to the dance. She may not be able
to live with him, but she can’t win without him. That’s the
downside of a dynasty: As quickly as it can build you up, it can
just as easily bring you down.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 