-- Buying Groupon Hard for Anyone as Growth Slows: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-12-11T21:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/buying-groupon-hard-for-anyone-as-growth-slows-real-m-a.html
Even at half the price  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
bid two years ago,  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  is no deal for potential buyers.  After sinking 79 percent this year, the online-coupon
service is now valued at $2.8 billion and last month fetched a
record low price-sales ratio, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. As competition intensifies and demand wanes, analysts
see  revenue  growth slowing to 0.6 percent in 2015, down from 45
percent in 2012 and the 1,233 percent average in the past two
years, the data show.  Instead of selling to Google for $6 billion in 2010,
Chicago-based Groupon chose to go public last year. While the
 shares  surged 23 percent on Dec. 7 amid speculation Google might
still be interested, a bid isn’t likely given Groupon’s slowdown
and because Google may find it cheaper to invest more resources
in its own coupon business, B. Riley & Co. said. Groupon is
diversifying income away from just coupons with Groupon Goods,
an online store for discounted products. To Benchmark Co., that
may deter possible buyers such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  that haven’t traditionally run retail operations.  “For somebody to buy it, you have to figure out what you
are really paying for,”  Sameet Sinha , a San Francisco-based
analyst at B. Riley, said in a telephone interview. “Their
existing customers are buying less and less. They have no
technology really to talk about. Their sales force is declining.
Frankly, what are you buying it for?”  Evaluating CEO  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Groupon, declined to
comment on the company’s takeover prospects. Groupon Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Mason , speaking today at the Mobile-
Loco  conference  in  San Francisco , also wouldn’t comment.  The company got its start in 2008 by selling coupons, known
as Groupons, from businesses such as restaurants and nail
salons. Groupon then shares the revenue with the merchant.
Mason, who is also the company’s co-founder, is trying to
resurrect growth with the year-old Groupon Goods business, an e-
commerce site where clients such as Dell Inc. and Garmin Ltd.
sell marked-down products.  Mason’s role as CEO was considered last week at a board
meeting, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked to not be identified because the issue is private. After
the gathering,  Paul Taaffe , a company spokesman, said Mason
would keep his job.  Walking Away  Groupon walked away from Google’s takeover offer in
December 2010, a person familiar with the matter said at the
time. The bid valued Groupon at $6 billion, including incentives
that would have been paid to Groupon’s managers if performance
targets were reached, people who asked to not be identified had
said. Groupon ended up conducting an initial public offering and
was valued at $16.7 billion following the first day of trading
in November 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  After initially winning a market capitalization exceeding
Google’s offer, Groupon’s  stock  has lost 79 percent since its
debut amid accounting missteps, more competition and growth that
failed to meet expectations. The shares fell to a price-sales
ratio of 0.7 on Nov. 13, a record low, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Today, Groupon shares rose 3.8 percent to $4.41.  On March 30, it reported a “material weakness” in its
financial controls, forcing the company to reduce fourth-quarter
revenue by $14.3 million. That followed the restatement of 2010
results six months earlier.  ‘Consumer Fatigue’  After revenue increased fivefold to $1.6 billion in 2011,
Groupon’s growth is slowing as the allure of daily-deal websites
wears off among consumers and competition intensifies, according
to Edward Woo, an  Irvine , California-based analyst for
Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC.  “Groupon didn’t have any significant barriers to entry,”
Woo said in a phone interview. “When it first introduced this
product, it got tremendous growth because a lot of people had
never heard of it and wanted to use it. It was very novel. But
now there’s a bit of consumer fatigue.”  LivingSocial Inc. is among the rival sites. Its struggle
with slumping demand for online coupons forced Amazon.com Inc.
to write down the value of its 29 percent stake this year, and
prompted LivingSocial to say last month that it will eliminate
about 400 of its 4,500 employees.  Analysts now project  sales growth  at Groupon will be 45
percent in the year ending this month, and growth will dwindle
to just 0.6 percent in 2015,  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg
show. To counter less demand for daily deals, Groupon introduced
Groupon Goods, which sells everything from watches and bed
frames to handbags and perfume at discounted prices. It competes
against the likes of Amazon, the world’s largest Internet
retailer, as well as Gilt Groupe Inc. and Rue La La.  Limited Value  The company’s direct sales -- comprised primarily of
Groupon Goods -- rose 20-fold to $145 million in the quarter
that ended Sept. 30, while revenue from the daily deals service
declined 1.2 percent to $417 million.  “If they can show that they’re a great online seller of
products and can compete against the Amazons of the world, that
would change a lot of investors’ skepticism,” Ascendiant
Capital’s Woo said. “In terms of the core daily deal business,
there’s not a lot of value there.”  Groupon shares surged 23 percent on Dec. 7, the biggest
rally since the company’s first trading session. The advance was
spurred by speculation that  Mountain View , California-based
Google may still be interested in the company, Telsey Advisory
Group LLC’s  Tom Forte  said last week.  Google Offers  “Where the stock is currently trading, it’s a takeout
candidate,” the New York-based analyst said. “If Google was
interested at $6 billion, I think it’s a possibility.”  On the other hand, Google already has tried building a
competing product called Google Offers, started after the
Groupon takeover failed, with limited success. While the company
has $45.7 billion in  cash  and short-term investments that it
could use to purchase Groupon, Google can probably spend more on
its own coupon business and end up with something similar to its
rival’s service, said B. Riley’s Sinha.  Could Google “get the same relationships without paying $3
billion for it? I think it could,” Sinha said. “Why not,
rather than have the legacy issues?”  Facebook, the owner of the world’s biggest social network,
has been moving into product sales to squeeze more revenue out
of its more than 1 billion users. For that reason, it may find
Groupon attractive, said Daniel Kurnos, an analyst for Benchmark
in  Delray Beach ,  Florida .  Microsoft, Yahoo  “Facebook has been trying to get into the e-commerce
space, but without heavily deluging their users with ads,” he
said in a phone interview. “That’s a way for them to maybe
circumvent that issue.”  Katelin Todhunter-Gerberg, a spokeswoman for Google, and
Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment on whether they are interested in
Groupon.  Microsoft or  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  could also evaluate Groupon,
seeking to improve the daily deals business by cutting costs and
leveraging their own advertising relationships, Kurnos said.
Still, Groupon Goods may be an obstacle because it would put any
acquirer in the retail business, where those technology
companies don’t typically operate, he said.  Peter Wootton, a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to
comment on whether the Redmond, Washington-based software maker
is interested in Groupon. Sara Gorman of Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  “The Goods part of the business, I think, is sort of the
question mark,” Kurnos said. “Someone who buys this would have
to take on the direct-to-retail portion of the business, and
you’d need a company that has that exposure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  