-- California Net Importer of Water, Pacific Institute Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-12-11T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/california-net-importer-of-water-pacific-institute-says.html
California  is more reliant on water
outside its borders than within, making the Golden State a “net
importer” of the liquid used for growing crops, lawns and
sating athletes’ thirst, according to a report.  The state’s “total water footprint” is about 64 million
acre-feet, or 20 trillion gallons, more than double the annual
average combined flow of its two largest rivers, the Pacific
Institute said today in a report.  The estimate is the first statewide analysis of its kind
and includes water used directly by individuals and businesses
and also the amount consumed indirectly to produce imported as
well as California-made goods. About 44 million acre-feet of
water is required to produce the goods and services that are
imported and consumed in the state, according to the report.  “Overall we’re a net importer of water,” Heather Cooley,
co-director of the institute’s water program, said by phone.
“We’re actually importing water in the form of our goods in
California.”  More than 90 percent of the water footprint is associated
with agricultural, meat and dairy products, 4 percent with
household use and 3 percent with products such as clothes and
electronics, according to the study. Additionally, about half of
the estimate is associated with water use in other U.S. states
and 11 percent with use in  Canada ,  Mexico  and  China .  The data suggests that “we’re vulnerable to water supply
constraints in other parts of the world,” Cooley said. “It
does affect us indirectly because of where we’re sourcing our
goods.”  The estimates don’t factor in requirements for energy,
including power generation and transportation fuels, Cooley
said.  Her Oakland, California-based research organization is
working on a separate study about those uses and preliminary
analysis suggests that California’s water requirements for
electricity production are “very low” and likely ’’much
higher’’ for transportation fuels, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  