-- Carney Says Policy Guidance Useful in Extraordinary Times
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-12-11T18:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/carney-says-policy-guidance-useful-in-extraordinary-times.html
Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said central bank guidance on the path of  interest
rates  may be more useful in circumstances such as major
slumps or financial imbalances.  In normal times -- when it should be used sparingly --
guidance can help reset “unrealistic” market expectations
for interest rates and counter financial excesses, Carney,
47, said in the text of a speech he’s giving today in
Toronto. In extraordinary or “extreme” times, guidance
that can include targets for unemployment and nominal
output can be used when conventional tools are exhausted.  “While the bank believes it appropriate to be sparing
in forward policy guidance under ordinary circumstances,
the calculus changes under extraordinary ones,” said
Carney, who will become  Bank of England  governor on July 1.
“Central banks can talk about the future path of policy,
and we can, at least on the surface, deliver.”  Carney said his speech, to an audience of financial
analysts in Toronto, didn’t contain any new guidance for
the Canadian economy. He has a press conference scheduled
for 2:15 p.m.  New York  time.  In normal times the bank shouldn’t make commitments to
a specific path for interest rates because evolving
economic circumstances mean it “cannot be predicted with
certainty in advance,” Carney said.  As recently as October, Carney said investors
shouldn’t read too much into the Bank of Canada’s language
about future interest rates, describing that as “false
precision.” His statement came after the Canadian dollar
rose Oct. 23, when the bank changed the wording of its
interest-rate announcement to say tighter policy “will
likely be required,” rather than “may become
appropriate.” The currency fell the next day after Carney
said the need for higher rates was “less imminent.”  There may be times under normal circumstances when
more guidance can be helpful, such as when interest rates
need to remain higher than would otherwise be warranted to
correct financial imbalances, according to Carney.  “If the bank were to lean against such imbalances, we
would clearly say we are doing so, and indicate how much
longer we expect it would take for inflation to return to
the 2 percent target,” he said.  In extraordinary times, forward guidance can be an
“unconventional policy tool, along with quantitative
easing and credit easing,” said Carney.  The  Bank of Canada  made a “conditional commitment” to
keep its policy rate unchanged for more than a year in
April 2009, during the global financial crisis, and also
signaled it would raise the rate prior to the end of the
commitment period. The U.S. Federal Reserve reiterated Oct.
24 that policy interest rates are likely to stay near zero
through at least mid-2015.  If needed to make monetary policy credible, officials
can announce precise numerical thresholds for inflation and
unemployment before reducing stimulus, Carney said. Nominal
GDP-level targeting, which corrects for past misses of the
inflation target, can also be used if central bankers need
an even “more powerful” tool, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  