-- Cayman Island Police Arrest Premier Over Credit Card Use
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-12-11T23:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/cayman-island-police-arrest-premier-over-credit-card-use.html
Cayman Islands  Premier McKeeva Bush
was arrested for misuse of a government credit card and
importing explosive substances, the Caribbean country’s police
said.  Bush, 57, was taken into custody at 7 a.m. today at his
home in West Bay, according to a statement e-mailed by the
police. The premier, who took office in 2009 and has been in the
legislature since 1984, is known in the assembly as the “Father
of the House,” according to his official biography.  Officials with the ruling United Democratic Party are
meeting to determine how the government will proceed, the Cayman
Compass newspaper  reported  on its website, citing sources it
didn’t name. Deputy Premier Julianna O’Connor-Connolly would
serve in Bush’s place.  Police have released Bush from custody on bail after “a
series of interviews” and he will return for further questioning
tomorrow, Cayman law enforcement said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The Cayman Islands, a British Overseas Territory which has
the highest number of  hedge funds  in the Caribbean, has
historically attracted companies such as Bain Capital LLC and
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , which use subsidiaries based there to lower U.S.
tax obligations. The country was home to 10,979 funds as of
Sept. 30, up from 9,258 in 2011, according to the country’s
monetary authority.  Cayman’s Chamber of Commerce said Bush’s arrest
demonstrates that police will go after “corruption even at the
highest level of political office.”  The group “unequivocally supports all actions by law
enforcement officials to root out any unethical behavior that
may damage the reputation of the Cayman Islands,” according to
a statement  posted  on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  