-- Celgene’s Pomalidomide Helps in Myeloma After Others Fail
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-12-11T21:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/celgene-s-pomalidomide-helps-in-myeloma-after-others-fail.html
Celgene Corp. (CELG) , the world’s fourth-
largest biotechnology company, said its experimental medicine
for multiple myeloma helped fight the cancer after other
therapies failed.  Patients taking Celgene’s pomalidomide plus a low dose of
the steroid dexamethasone lived a median 3.6 months without
their disease worsening, compared with 1.8 months for patients
taking a high dose of the steroid alone, according to data
presented at the  American Society of Hematology  meeting in
Atlanta today. Pomalidomide also helped with overall survival.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  is set to make a
decision on approval of pomalidomide by Feb. 10. European
regulators are expected to decide in the second half of 2013,
Summit, New Jersey-based Celgene said in a statement today.
Pomalidomide, given orally, may draw more than $1 billion in
annual revenue by 2017, according to the average of four
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Coming out of the presentations, we believe pom has a
high likelihood of approval and will have an important role in
refractory multiple myeloma,”  Brian Abrahams , an analyst with
Wells Fargo Securities, wrote in a research note today from the
hematology meeting. The data “continue to support pom’s strong
profile.”  Celgene rose 2 percent to $82.08 at the close of New York
trading. The shares have  gained  21 percent this year.  455-Person Study  The 455-person study, from the third and final phase of
clinical trials generally required for approval, consisted of
participants who had already taken Celgene’s Revlimid or  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s Velcade. The prognosis in multiple myeloma
patients for whom those therapies have stopped working is poor,
with a median survival time of nine months, research has shown.  Multiple myeloma is a cancer of the white blood cells that
will be diagnosed in an estimated 21,700 Americans this year,
according to the  National Cancer Institute . About 10,710 people
will die from the disease in 2012, the institute estimates.  A pomalidomide approval would follow the July clearance of
 Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX) ’s Kyprolis, a drug given by injection,
for use in multiple myeloma patients who had tried other
therapies including Velcade.  Revlimid is Celgene’s top-selling drug, bringing in $3.2
billion in revenue last year. Celgene trails  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the top three biotechnology
companies in the world, in revenue and market value.  Market Leaders  Takeda’s Velcade is the market leader in multiple myeloma,
with more than 60 percent share in first-line use and more than
50 percent share as a second-line therapy, according to a
presentation the  Osaka , Japan-based company’s Millennium
business unit made yesterday at the hematology meeting. Celgene
said its Revlimid is the market leader, with a more than 50
percent share in front-line use.  Takeda also presented data on its experimental therapy for
multiple myeloma, MLN9708, at the meeting. The drug, a once-
weekly pill, met the goals of a mid-stage study evaluating its
use in combination with Revlimid and dexamethasone in patients
who haven’t tried other therapies. Such a regimen may provide
patients the option of avoiding needles; Velcade is given
through an injection under the skin or intravenously.  Celgene’s pomalidomide was associated with a risk of
neutropenia, or a low white blood cell count. Some patients on
Takeda’s MLN9708 regimen had peripheral neuropathy, or nerve
problems leading to numbness or pain in the hands or feet.  Based on the pomalidomide overall survival data, the
study’s monitoring committee recommended that patients in the
other arm of the trial who hadn’t seen their disease worsen be
switched to the Celgene drug group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  