-- Cesp Takeover Seen on Decision to Cut Revenue: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2012-12-11T12:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/cesp-takeover-seen-on-decision-to-cut-revenue-corporate-brazil.html
Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo’s 
decision to give up half its power plants is fueling speculation
the state-run utility may be sold after three failed attempts.  Cesp, as  Brazil ’s second-biggest power generator is known,
has gained 11 percent this month, the most among Brazilian
utilities, after saying it won’t renew contracts accounting for
70 percent of its revenue under new rules outlined by the
government last month. The refusal means Cesp can cut debt and
boost investor returns, said Cristiane Fensterseifer, an analyst
at  Porto Alegre , Brazil’s Geracao Corretora de Valores, which
manages 6 billion reais ($2.9 billion) of stocks.  Sao Paulo state, which controls Cesp with 94 percent of the
voting shares, may sell the company now that the assets included
in a deal have been defined, Chief Executive Officer Mauro Arce
said in an interview. More than $13 billion in the market value
of Brazilian utilities has been wiped out since Sept. 11, when
President  Dilma Rousseff  announced a plan to force companies to
cut electricity prices as a condition for renewing concessions.  “Accepting the concession renewals would have created less
value than just letting them expire,” Sergio Tamashiro, an
analyst at Banco Safra SA, said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo. Cesp will retain attractive assets and also receive
government compensation for returning assets, helping reduce
debt, he said. “It won’t be a company with problems.”  Debt Ratio  Cesp’s debt equals 1.15 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, making it the
third-least indebted utility in Brazil with a market value of
more than $1 billion.  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , or
Eletrobras, has a debt-to-Ebitda ratio of 7.5, and  AES Tiete SA (GETI3) ,
a unit of  AES Corp. (AES) , is the least indebted with a 0.56 ratio.  Cesp’s priority must be to “pay off debt, not to invest,”
Arce said Dec. 7 in an interview in Sao Paulo, when he said the
company may be sold. He didn’t provide further details on a
possible takeover.  At least four utilities refused to take part in Rousseff’s
plan to cut electricity prices, opting instead to allow the
government to hold new auctions for licenses expiring through
2017. Under the plan, utilities seeking to renew concessions
expiring between 2015 and 2017 are required to cut some
electricity rates by as much as 70 percent by Jan. 1. The
government offered 20.04 billion reais in compensation to
companies that haven’t recouped investments in plants and
transmission lines.  Cesp Compensation  Cesp was offered 1.7 billion reais in compensation, less
than a quarter of the 7.9 billion reais it sought, Arce said.  Other companies that rejected the government’s offer for
generation contracts include  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais , or
Cemig;  Centrais Eletricas de Santa Catarina SA , or Celsc; and
 Cia. Paranaense de Energia , or Copel. On transmission
concessions, Cemig, Copel and  Cia. de Transmissao de Energia
Eletrica Paulista , known as Cteep, accepted the terms.  The government of Sao Paulo state isn’t discussing the sale
of Cesp, a press official for the state energy secretariat, who
can’t be named, said by telephone. State Energy Secretary Jose
Anibal is also the chairman of Cesp.  The government of Sao Paulo state tried to sell its stake
in 2008, after failing to do so in 2000 and 2001. The plan was
scrapped after it failed to attract bidders because the federal
government didn’t ensure it would renew Cesp’s licenses.  Below Market  Sao Paulo  will likely need to sell the stake for below its
current market price because the loss of the generating
contracts makes the company less valuable, said Gabriel Laera,
an analyst at Espirito Santo SA in Sao Paulo.  “The big question is: What’s the price?” Laera said by e-
mail. A price of 9 reais per share would be fair if Cesp doesn’t
bid to regain the concessions after rejecting their renewal
under the government’s plan, he said.  Cesp rose 1.5 percent to 19.73 reais at 10:51 a.m. in Sao
Paulo today, reducing a year-to-date decline to 40 percent.
Eletrobras is down 65 percent this year, while Cemig has dropped
4.9 percent.  Cesp will return three of its six concessions, accounting
for 77 percent of the company’s 7,455 megawatts of  installed
capacity , according to the company’s website. The government
will regain control of the dams and may sell them at an auction
or keep them.  The decision means Cesp may eliminate all its debt by 2015,
Antonio Junqueira, an analyst at BTG Pactual, said in a
telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  “They’ll have two years of strong cash flow generation
from all plants and they’ll probably be a debtless company by
2015,” Junqueira said. “It’s a very comfortable position.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  