-- Chavez Recovering After Successful Cancer Surgery, VP Says
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2012-12-12T03:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/chavez-cancer-surgery-continues-in-cuba-villegas-says-2-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  is
recovering after six hours of surgery for cancer today, his vice
president said, while calling on the nation to pray for the
leader’s health.  Nicolas Maduro, in a nationally televised address
surrounded by members of the cabinet, said Chavez is
convalescing following a “complex” operation, and will take a
few days to recover.  “These have been several hours of worry, but the operation
was carried out as planned and with success,” Maduro said.  The 58-year-old self-declared socialist named longtime ally
Maduro, who has close ties to Cuba, as his heir apparent before
traveling to the communist island for a fourth operation in 18
months. Chavez urged Venezuelans to vote for Maduro in the event
he’s unable to remain in office.  Maduro said Chavez is being attended by Cuban and
Venezuelan doctors and experts from other countries he didn’t
name. Chavez’s family are by his bedside along with National
Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello  and Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez , he said.  Before departing for Cuba Dec. 10, Chavez said that rather
than handing over power he was delegating and leaving the
country in the “good hands” of Maduro. Chavez won re-election
to another six-year term in October.  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez is too ill to serve during
the first four years of his term, the vice president assumes the
presidency for 30 days while elections are held. If he can’t
serve the final two years, the vice president can finish out the
term. If Chavez is unable to assume power in an inauguration
ceremony scheduled for Jan. 10, Congress President Cabello would
assume power while elections are arranged.  Chavez first told Venezuelans he had cancer in June 2011
after undergoing surgery in Cuba to drain an abscess from his
pelvic area during which he said doctors discovered a baseball-
sized tumor in the same area. The tumor was excised in a
subsequent operation, Chavez said, without specifying the exact
location or type of cancer.  After four bouts of chemotherapy, he returned to Cuba in
February for a third operation after his medical team discovered
a second tumor and underwent several rounds of radiation therapy
over the following months. In July he said he was “free,
totally free” of illness, echoing words he said in October 2011
after completing chemotherapy treatment.  While the 58-year-old Chavez hasn’t yet ceded power,
investors are increasingly convinced he will stand down. Yields
on the dollar debt of  South America ’s biggest oil producer
plunged to the lowest since November 2007 as investors bet a
change in government would augur a reversal of nationalizations
and currency and price controls that have stoked 18 percent
inflation and driven away investment.  Maduro called on Venezuelans to unite and pray for their
president and said they shouldn’t be deterred by the hatred
“anti-imperialists” hold for Chavez.  “Comandante, we’re waiting for you here, you need to
return,” Maduro said. “The sadness of the hour is giving us
strength.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  