-- Venezuela’s Chavez May Not Recover in Time for New Term
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2012-12-12T23:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/chavez-undergoing-cancer-surgery-today-minister-says.html
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez is
facing a “complex” recovery from cancer surgery and may not be
well again in time to be sworn in for a third term next month,
Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said.  “We trust that, with the love of millions, the comandante
will recover soon and take command before Jan. 10,” Villegas
said, referring to the scheduled inauguration date for Chavez’s
third term. “But if that’s not the case, people should be ready
to understand. It would be irresponsible to hide the delicacy of
the current situation and the days that lie ahead.”  Chavez in Cuba yesterday underwent his fourth surgery in 18
months for an undisclosed form of cancer, after telling
Venezuelans they should vote for Vice President Nicolas Maduro
in case he’s forced to step down after 14 years in power.  Maduro, flanked by National Assembly President Diosdado Cabello and Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez as he addressed
Venezuelans in a nationwide broadcast today, didn’t provide
updated information on Chavez’s health after saying last night
that the six-hour operation had been successful.  “It’s very clear that our people need to accompany him in
his treatment process but also that our people are serenely
prepared to face these hard, complex and difficult days we are
living,” Maduro said.  The vice president led a late-night vigil attended by
hundreds in downtown Caracas yesterday, asking Venezuelans to
light candles for Chavez to give him strength. He said the 58-
year-old Chavez is being attended by Cuban and Venezuelan
doctors and experts from other countries he didn’t name.  Current ‘Recovery’  Rumors that Chavez has died following the cancer surgery
aren’t true, Cabello said today.  “The comandante’s status at this moment is one of
recovery,” Cabello said at a mass held at the Fuerte Tiuna army
base to pray for Chavez’s health broadcast on state television.
“It was a long and complicated operation, but there he is,
fighting, fighting, fighting. We’re sure he will triumph. Chavez
is a conqueror, Chavez is a patriot, Chavez is invincible.”  Before departing for Cuba on Dec. 10, Chavez said he was
delegating and leaving the country in the “good hands” of
Maduro, a longtime ally and  Venezuela ’s foreign minister. Chavez
won re-election to a third six-year term in October.  Under Venezuelan law, if Chavez steps down tomorrow, Maduro
would see out the rest of the current term which ends Jan. 9,
when he would hand over power to the National Assembly president
who must call for election within 30 days. If Chavez assumes
power for a new term Jan. 10 and steps down within the first
four years of that period, the vice president takes over while
elections are arranged within a month.  Unknown Cancer  Chavez first told Venezuelans he had cancer in June 2011
after undergoing surgery in Cuba to drain an abscess from his
pelvic area during which he said doctors discovered a baseball-
sized tumor in the same area. The tumor was excised in a
subsequent operation, Chavez said, without specifying the exact
location or type of cancer.  After four bouts of chemotherapy, he returned to Cuba in
February for a third operation after his medical team discovered
a second tumor and underwent several rounds of radiation therapy
over the following months. While campaigning for re-election in
July, he said he was “free, totally free” of illness, echoing
words he said in October 2011 after completing chemotherapy
treatment.  While Venezuela’s president hasn’t yet ceded power,
investors are increasingly convinced he will stand down. Yields
on the dollar debt of South America’s biggest oil producer
plunged to the lowest in almost five years as investors bet a
change in government would augur a reversal of nationalizations
and currency and price controls that have stoked 18 percent
inflation and driven away investment.  Opposition Candidate  Maduro last night called on Venezuelans to unite and pray
for their president and said they shouldn’t be deterred by the
hatred “anti-imperialists” hold for Chavez. He said he’ll give
daily updates on the leader’s health and said Chavez had
“overcome the first obstacle.”  “Comandante, we’re waiting for you here, you need to
return,” Maduro said. “The sadness of the hour is giving us
strength.”  Chavez’s decision to name a successor before he traveled to
Cuba increases the importance of gubernatorial elections Dec.
16, where the man Maduro replaced as vice president, Elias Jaua,
is pitted against opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski for the governorship of Miranda state, said Luis Vicente Leon, president of Caracas-based polling firm
Datanalisis.  A win for Capriles, who was defeated by Chavez in Oct. 7
presidential elections, would boost his chances of holding
together an unruly anti-Chavez alliance and mounting a
successful presidential bid, while a defeat would be
“disastrous” for the opposition’s chances, said Leon.  Bond Yields  “In this next phase the question is whether opposition
takes over,”  Siobhan Morden , the head of Latin America fixed-
income strategy at Jefferies Group Inc., said today in an e-
mailed response to questions. “This weekend’s elections will be
a barometer of whether sympathy vote influences better outcome
of Chavistas in Miranda and Zulia” states.  The government’s benchmark 2027 dollar bond rose 0.08 cent
to 102.53 cents on the dollar after falling to as low as 100.95
cents earlier. The bond’s yield fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 8.94 percent.  Venezuelan dollar bonds have returned 49.66 percent in
2012, the second-biggest return in  emerging markets  after the
Ivory Coast, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
index.  Maduro called on Chavez’s followers to vote in the Dec. 16
elections and said he was sure they’d see Chavez on Venezuelan
soil again.  “We’ll continue to face this complex, hard and difficult
process we’re experiencing with strength, truth and love and
with the confidence that God willing we will win and sooner
rather than later we’ll have our president here in this house of
the people,” Maduro said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  