-- Williams Bets $2.4 Billion on Pipe Venture Chesapeake Quit
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-12-12T21:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/chesapeake-asset-sales-reach-13-8-billion-with-latest-pipe-deal.html
Williams Cos. (WMB) , the third-largest
U.S. pipeline company, is betting as much as $2.4 billion it can
profit from a shale-pipeline partnership that  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK)  exited earlier this year.  Williams agreed to acquire a 25 percent stake in  Access
Midstream Partners LP (ACMP)  and 50 percent of its general partner, the
Tulsa, Oklahoma-based company said in a statement yesterday.
Chesapeake shed its stake in the Access pipeline venture,
formerly known as Chesapeake Midstream, in June as the natural
gas producer auctioned properties from Appalachia to the  Rocky
Mountains  to plug a cash flow shortfall.  Williams, whose pipes ship gas between markets thousands of
miles apart, has expanded under Chief Executive Officer Alan Armstrong into gathering the fuel directly from gas fields and
shipping it to plants that strip out impurities and byproducts.
In March, Williams spent $2.5 billion to acquire Caiman Energy
LLC’s pipelines in the Marcellus Shale, a formation that ITG
Investment Research estimates is the largest U.S. gas reservoir.  The Access agreement “allows us to get very large-scale
positions in basins as opposed to having to go in and get
struggling positions in basins and try to build those up,”
Armstrong said during a conference call with analysts yesterday.  Armstrong’s other forays into shale regions included a $380
million investment in a Caiman pipeline network in  Ohio ’s Utica
Shale in June.  Tax-Free Payouts  Access and Williams have little overlap in their current
operations and will continue to operate as separate companies,
Mike Stice, Access’ CEO, said on a conference call.  The deal gives Williams a stake in a second tax-free
partnership. Access is structured as a master-limited
partnership, so it pays no federal income taxes as long as it
pays out most of its cash to its shareholders. The stake in
Access’ general partner means Williams is entitled to an
increasing share of  cash flow  as it grows and also to collect
dividends on the partnership’s common units.  Williams’s dividends have increased an average of 26
percent a year during the past five years,  according to data
compiled by Bloomberg , with a 54 percent jump over the past
year. They have been boosted from its ownership in  Williams
Partners (WPZ)  LP. Access is on a similar “inflection curve,”
Armstrong said on the conference call.  Dividend Growth  The added cash flow will allow Williams to continue raising
its dividends into 2015 and will protect it from swings in the
price of gas and byproducts such as propane, since most of
Access’ revenue comes from long-term contracts,  Carl Kirst , an
analyst with BMO Capital Markets in Houston, wrote in a note to
clients today.  “Investors will still need time to digest, we think, but
we like the transaction even recognizing the benefits are long
term in nature,” Kirst wrote.  Global Infrastructure Partners will retain the remaining 50
percent of Access’ general partner and 43 percent of the limited
partnership units, Williams said in its statement. Global
Infrastructure, the investment fund led by Adebayo Ogunlesi,
started the original pipeline venture with Chesapeake Energy in
2009 that later became Chesapeake Midstream.  Williams fell 0.8 percent to $31.13 at the close in  New
York . The shares have risen 15 percent this year. Access dropped
5.5 percent to $32.15, the biggest decline since May 11.
Chesapeake fell 0.8 percent to $16.96.  Funding Gap  Stung by a plunge in U.S. gas prices and capital spending
commitments that have exceeded cash flow in 19 of the past 21
years, Chesapeake earlier this year said it may run out of cash
as soon as 2013. CEO Aubrey McClendon set about finding buyers
for gas fields and pipeline networks to finance his push to
slash debt and transform the second-biggest U.S. gas producer
into an  oil company .  Chesapeake said a previously announced $2.16 billion sale
of pipelines to Access closed yesterday, along with a separate
$175 million sale of pipelines in Oklahoma and  Texas . The
company expects to sell its remaining tranche of pipeline assets
by the end of the first quarter for $425 million.  Jefferies & Company Inc. and Goldman Sachs & Co. advised
Chesapeake on the pipeline sales.  Kinder Morgan Inc. and  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  are
the two largest U.S. pipeline companies by market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  