-- Fund Managers Were Links in ‘Corrupt Chain,’ U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/chiasson-newman-were-links-in-corrupt-chain-u-s-says.html
A U.S. prosecutor told a jury that
Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and former
Diamondback Capital Management LLC portfolio manager Todd Newman
made more than $70 million on trades based on illicit tips from
analysts who worked for them.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps began making the
prosecution’s closing arguments yesterday in  Manhattan , where
Newman and Chiasson have been on trial since Nov. 7, accused of
exploiting inside information about technology companies such as
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  They have pleaded not guilty.  The two were part of what the government calls a “corrupt
chain” or a tight-knit group of friends who swapped and traded
on illicit tips.  Six others charged by the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara with being part of the ring, including Jon Horvath, a former analyst at SAC Capital Advisors LP’s Sigma
unit, have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with authorities.  “Todd Newman and Anthony Chiasson got secret confidential
information from people who were insiders at public companies
and used it to make millions of dollars in the stock market,”
Apps said. “They were part of a corrupt chain of people who got
secret information.”  Conspiracy, Fraud  Chiasson and Newman are charged with conspiracy and
securities fraud for their roles during the alleged period that
inside tips were swapped from 2007 to 2009. Both face a maximum
of 25 years in prison if convicted. Summations will continue
today., U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan said.  During the trial, former Diamondback analyst Jesse Tortora
testified that he passed inside tips to Newman. A former Level
Global analyst, Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, told the jury that
he shared nonpublic information with Chiasson. The information
was obtained by their friend Sandeep “Sandy” Goyal, a
Neuberger Berman analyst who once worked at Dell.  After the prosecutor concluded yesterday, John Nathanson, a
lawyer for Newman, told jurors that Tortora was the only witness
to testify at the trial that he had passed nonpublic information
to Newman. Nathanson argued that Tortora had lied on the stand.  “The government’s case against  Todd Newman , my client,
rises and falls on the word of one person, Jesse Tortora,”
Nathanson said. “Ladies and gentlemen, the evidence in this
case shows that Mr. Tortora lied to you and he cannot and should
not be trusted to convict my client.”  E-Mails, Instant Messages  During her closing argument, Apps showed jurors dozens of
e-mails and instant messages that Tortora and Adondakis
exchanged with their fund managers, which she argued was
evidence of Newman and Chiasson respectively receiving inside
information, including updates on gross margins and revenue on
both Dell and Nvidia.  “We’ve shown you proof beyond a reasonable doubt that Todd
Newman and Anthony Chiasson knew they were getting secret
information,” Apps said. Both fund managers took some of the
largest positions they had ever made in the stocks after Tortora
and Adondakis testified they had passed illicit tips.  “It’s not a coincidence” she said. “It’s because they
had a secret pipeline to insiders at Dell and Nvidia,” she
said. “They had confidential information that other investors
didn’t have.”  The government said that in 2008, Chiasson and Level Global
earned $57 million on illegal tips on Dell, while Newman and
Diamondback earned $3.8 million on the alleged secret
information about Dell. In 2009, Chiasson and his fund earned
$10 million on Nvidia tips while Newman and Diamondback earned
$48,000, prosecutors said.  Trading Pattern  Nathanson showed jurors charts depicting trades made by the
fund at the same time Tortora testified he had passed inside
tips about Dell to Newman. The defense lawyer argued that
Newman’s trading pattern was inconsistent with someone who
possessed accurate revenue and gross margin numbers from a
company insider. The lawyer also argued that his client often
lost money by selling off stock at a time the insider tips
indicated it would do well.  “The question is what did Todd Newman know?” Nathanson
said. “Did he believe he was getting inside information or did
he believe he was getting legitimate work from his analyst who
he paid to do a legitimate job?”  Chiasson’s lawyer,  Reid Weingarten , is scheduled to deliver
his closing arguments to the jury after Nathanson finishes. U.S.
District Judge Richard Sullivan, who is presiding over the
trial, told jurors they could begin their deliberations as early
as tomorrow.  FBI Agent  One witness called by a lawyer for Newman Dec. 10  was
David Makol, a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  securities-fraud
agent. He told jurors that he has persuaded dozens of people to
cooperate with the government.  The defense lawyer, Steve Fishbein, called Makol in an
attempt to show what he alleges are inconsistencies between
Tortora’s trial testimony and the FBI agent’s notes of
interviews with Tortora when he first agreed to cooperate.  Weingarten questioned Makol about notes the agent took of
statements Adondakis made to agents and prosecutors about what
he told Chiasson.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 1:12-cr-00121, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  