-- Chicago Man Sentenced for Trying to Aid Somali Terrorists
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-11T20:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/chicago-man-sentenced-for-trying-to-aid-somali-terrorists.html
A  Chicago  man who admitted that he
tried to aid the Somali terrorist group al-Shabaab, an al-Qaeda
affiliate, was sentenced to nine years and 10 months in prison
by a U.S. judge.  Shaker Masri was arrested in August 2010 and accused of
trying to provide material support to al-Shabaab and attempting
to disguise that support. He pleaded guilty to the first count
in July, under an agreement that called for the prison sentence
imposed today by U.S. District Judge Sharon Johnson Coleman in
Chicago.  Masri in July 2010 unwittingly told a government informant
that he had decided to take part in a jihad in Somalia or
 Afghanistan  and to volunteer for a suicide mission, according to
prosecutors. The informant told Masri he would help pay for his
trip, provided they went together. Masri agreed. They planned a
trip from Chicago to Somalia via Los Angeles and  Mexico ,
according to court documents.  “Shaker Masri wanted to take the lives of human beings --
including his own -- to wreak havoc and advance a terrorist
agenda,” Gary S. Shapiro, the acting U.S. attorney for Chicago,
said in a statement. “Today’s sentence ensures that those who
would lend support to terrorist organizations will be
punished.”  Terrorist Organization  Al-Shabaab is classified as a foreign terrorist
organization by the U.S. government. The State Department has
said many of the group’s senior leaders are believed to have
trained and fought with al Qaeda in Afghanistan, according to
the original criminal complaint against Masri. Attempting to
provide material support to such a group carries a top penalty
of 15 years in prison.  Masri told the informant in July 2010 that once they
embarked on their journey, they would be “wanted men,”
according to the plea agreement.  Masri bought tickets for a one-way flight from Chicago to
Los Angeles. He was arrested in August 2010 after he and the
informant bought a new laptop computer for the trip, according
to prosecutors.  The Alabama-born Masri was raised outside the U.S.,
prosecutors said when he was arrested.  The case is U.S. v. Masri, 10-cr-655, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  