-- China New Loans Trail Forecasts in Sign of Slower Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-11T08:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/china-november-new-lending-below-estimates-at-522-9-billion-yuan.html
China’s new  yuan   loans  trailed
forecasts last month, restraining the pace of recovery in the
world’s second-biggest economy after a seven-quarter  slowdown .  Banks extended 522.9 billion yuan ($84 billion) of local-
currency loans, the People’s Bank of China said today. That
compares with a 550 billion yuan median estimate in a Bloomberg
News  survey  of 30 economists and 562.2 billion yuan the same
month last year. M2, the broadest measure of money supply, rose
13.9 percent from a year earlier, below the median estimate of
14.1 percent.  Today’s data and November’s weaker-than-expected gains in
 exports  contrast with industrial output and retail sales figures
that both exceeded analyst forecasts. Top economic officials may
meet this month to map out policies for 2013 including a growth
target indicating the pace that the Communist Party’s new
leadership, headed by Xi Jinping, will tolerate.  “The data point to a more subdued recovery going
forward,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist and
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. The government
“seems comfortable” with the pace of economic growth and
funding may expand more slowly this quarter, he said.  China’s benchmark stock gauge, the Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP) ,
fell 0.4 percent at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break. The index
was down 5.3 percent this year through yesterday.  Funding Sources  Aggregate  financing , an indicator designed to capture other
funding sources apart from the bank loans such as trust loans
and bond and stock issuance, was 1.14 trillion yuan in November,
today’s report showed. That’s the lowest since August and
compares with 1.29 trillion yuan in October and 958.1 billion
yuan in November 2011.  Trust loans, one component of aggregate financing, more
than doubled from a year earlier to 199.5 billion yuan last
month. Net bond issuance fell to 181.7 billion yuan and non-
financial company stock sales declined to 10.7 billion yuan.  Haitong Securities Co., Everbright Securities Co. and  China 
Merchants Securities Co. were among 10 brokerages that won
approval last month to underwrite bond sales on the interbank
market as China seeks to expand debt financing.  Separately today, the Finance Ministry said November fiscal
spending rose 6.7 percent from a year earlier, equaling
October’s pace for the smallest increase since February 2011.
Fiscal revenue rose 21.9 percent, the most since August 2011.  New yuan loans last month were the second-lowest this year,
after October’s 505 billion yuan, according to central bank data.  Interest Rates  The central bank cut interest rates in June and July and
allowed banks to offer bigger discounts on loans to reduce the
repayment burden on companies already hurt by rising costs and
cooling sales amid the economic slowdown. The PBOC lowered
banks’ reserve requirement ratio three times from November 2011
through May, preferring since then to add cash into the
financial system using reverse repurchase agreements.  China may have to cut the reserve ratio or interest rates
if next year’s economic-growth trend isn’t “too stable,”
Caijing magazine reported in its Dec. 10 issue, citing an
interview with Xu Nuojin, an official in the central bank’s
statistics department.  Industrial output climbed 10.1 percent in November from a
year earlier and retail sales growth accelerated to 14.9 percent,
while inflation was 2 percent, the statistics bureau said Dec. 9.
Customs administration data yesterday showed exports increased
2.9 percent last month from a year earlier and  imports  were
unchanged.  Today’s data showed non-bank credit kept accelerating even
as growth in bank credit “slowed a bit in November,” said Yao Wei, China economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong.  “Overall liquidity conditions remain accommodative,” Yao
said. “Given the improvement in growth data, the PBOC doesn’t
need to do more for the moment.”  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore .
Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  