-- U.S. Opposes Expanding UN Agency’s Remit to Regulate the Web
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-12-11T17:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/china-and-russia-withdraw-web-address-proposal-opposed-by-u-s-.html
The U.S. government said today it
will oppose any proposals that would expand the United Nations
telecommunications agency’s remit to make rules governing the
Internet.  The  World Conference on International Telecommunications  is
working in Dubai this month to update the 24-year-old framework
that governs telecommunications networks.  In a blog post, the White House also said that in addition
to rejecting new powers for the International Telecommunication
Union, the country would oppose any rules that might lead to
more state control over online content. The statement comes as a
proposal backed by China and Russia that would give individual
countries sovereignty over Internet addresses and domains was
scrapped.  The administration “will not support a treaty that sets
that kind of precedent,” Michael Daniel, cybersecurity
coordinator; David Edelman, a senior adviser for Internet
policy; and Tom Power, the U.S. deputy chief technology officer
for telecommunications, said on the  website . “The WCIT should
be about updating a public telecommunications treaty to reflect
today’s market-based realities -- not a new venue to create
regulations on the Internet, private networks or the data
flowing across them.”  The ITU members are meeting in Dubai from Dec. 3 through
Dec. 14 to discuss changes to the 1988 International
Telecommunication Regulations, which don’t regulate the
Internet. The ITU has said the WCIT conference won’t address
expanding its powers.  ‘Document 50’  The withdrawn proposal, from nations led by China and
 Russia , was understood to decentralize power over Web addresses,
though it was never made public, said Sarah Parkes, an ITU
spokeswoman. The national representatives, who have gathered in
Dubai to update the framework that governs telecommunications
networks, will meet again tonight to draw up “Document 50,” a
compromise, she said.  Web addresses are now controlled by two non-governmental
organizations, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and
Numbers and the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority. Critics of
the Sino-Russian proposal, including the U.S., said it would
increase the powers of the United Nations telecommunications
body to regulate the Web.  “While this is a welcome development, these issues will
continue to be on the table for discussion in other forms during
the remainder of the conference,” U.S. Ambassador Terry Kramer
said in a statement.  The U.S. delegation will continue to make the case that the
ITU’s powers should not be increased during the summit and the
members should “resist the proposals to extend that scope into
Internet governance or content.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in Dubai via 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  