-- China Names Clearing Bank for Taiwan Yuan Transactions
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-12-12T06:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/china-names-clearing-bank-for-taiwan-yuan-transactions.html
Bank of China Ltd.’s  Taipei branch
won the right to clear  yuan  transactions in  Taiwan , paving the
way for use of the mainland’s currency on the island that’s been
ruled separately since a civil war six decades ago.  The bank branch will work to start yuan clearing within a
month, Taiwan’s central bank governor Perng Huai-Nan told a
meeting of lawmakers today.  China ’s central bank yesterday
announced the appointment of  Bank of China , which has been
clearing yuan transactions in Hong Kong since 2003. Taiwan
appointed  Bank of Taiwan ’s Shanghai branch to clear transactions
in mainland China after the governments signed an agreement in
August.  The pact highlights growing economic ties since Ma Ying- Jeou became Taiwan’s president in 2008 and moved away from the
pro-independence stance of his predecessor, Chen Shui-Bian.
Taiwan has been ruled separately since Chiang Kai-shek’s
Kuomintang party fled the mainland in 1949 after a civil war
against Mao Zedong’s Communists. The Communist Party still deems
Taiwan a renegade province that must be unified with China, by
force if necessary.  The yuan clearing agreement signed by both governments on
Aug. 31 paved the way for the island’s corporations and
individuals to set up accounts in the Chinese currency. The pact
allows interbank trading of the yuan, creating a new  exchange
rate  for the currency. Previously, trading of the yuan was
allowed only in  Hong Kong  and China.  The ability to clear yuan transactions will allow companies
to raise funds in the Chinese currency in Taiwan to fund their
investments and operations on the mainland. Sales of bonds
denominated in the currency in Hong Kong, the first region
outside China able to clear transactions in yuan, surged
fourfold last year from 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Deal in Effect  While the island named Bank of Taiwan as its clearing bank
in September, Taiwan central bank Governor Perng Fai-Nan said on
Oct. 29 that the appointment would only take effect once China
selects its clearing bank.  Taiwan has the world’s biggest trade surplus with China,
according to government data. Tariffs on imported goods from
both sides were reduced by a combined $490.1 million in the
first 10 months of the year, according to Taiwan’s Straits
Exchange Foundation.  Perng told lawmakers today that  interest rates  for yuan
deposits will be similar to those for Taiwan dollar savings.  In addition to Taiwan, China has also been expanding the
use of its currency with other trade partners including
Singapore, Japan and  Thailand  to promote usage of the yuan in
global trade and investment.  Bank of China said on its website yesterday that it
processed 1.72 trillion yuan ($275 billion) of cross-border
transactions in the currency during the first nine months of
this year, an increase of 31 percent from the same period of
2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Taipei at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  