-- Freeport’s $10 Billion Buying Spree Spurs Investor Suits
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-12-11T21:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/mcmoran-exploration-investor-sues-over-freeport-bid.html
McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR)  and  Plains
Exploration & Production Co. (PXP)  were sued in separate actions by
investors who claim they’ll be shortchanged in sales to
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  valued at more than
$10 billion.  Joel Krieger, seeking to sue on behalf of all McMoRan
common stockholders, contends that the oil and natural gas
company’s board violated its duty to get a better price in the
$3.4 billion transaction.  “The proposed buyout is unfair,” Krieger said in a
complaint filed today in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.
He asked a judge to stop the deal under its present terms and to
award damages and legal fees.  Dennis Rice contends Plains Exploration, another oil-and-
gas company, is worth more than the approximately $6.9 billion
in cash and stock shareholders are being offered by Freeport  “Freeport will acquire all of the outstanding stock of
Plains for grossly inadequate consideration,” Rice said in his
Chancery lawsuit.  Freeport, based in Phoenix, said in a statement Dec. 5 that
it would buy New Orleans-based McMoRan for $14.75 a share and
1.15 units of a royalty trust. Freeport separately is buying
Houston-based Plains Exploration for $25 in cash and 0.6531
share of Freeport for each Plains share, according to court
papers.  David Joint, a McMoRan Exploration spokesman, and Hance Myers, a Plains Exploration spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to phone and e-mail messages  seeking comment on the
lawsuits.  The cases are Krieger v. McMoRan, CA8091, and Rice v.
Plains, CA8090, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  