-- Cookbook’s Funny Voice Tops Microsoft Veteran Tech Touch
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2012-12-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/cookbook-s-funny-voice-tops-microsoft-veteran-tech-touch.html
With “The  Smitten Kitchen
Cookbook ” (Knopf, $35), Deb Perelman has hit the bull’s-eye.  Her collection has a distinctive, funny voice, luscious
photos she took herself, recipes that really work -- and a
fantastic binding that lets the book lie flat on the counter.  Working from a tiny  New York  City kitchen, Perelman has
been cooking and blogging for years, creating food you’ll want
to eat, like harvest roast chicken with grapes, olives and
rosemary. Her linguine with no-cook cauliflower pesto was a
lifesaver on hot days last summer.  And she’s one of the few cooks out there I trust equally on
baking. I can’t wait to try her fig, olive oil and sea salt
challah and marbled pumpkin gingersnap tart.  Cooking Memoir  “ Dinner: A Love Story ” (Ecco, $27.99) is another blog-
turned-book from a home cook. It’s the only cookbook I’ve ever
read cover to cover, like a memoir.  Author Jenny Rosenstrach’s
goal is to get people cooking and eating together with their
families, and recipes like “back-pocket” chicken tacos and
salmon with yogurt-mustard-dill sauce take the stress out of
putting a healthy, delicious meal on the table.  Mad Scientist  “ Modernist Cuisine at Home ” (The Cooking Lab, $140) may
have the word “home” in the title, but it’s not a book that
will help you make dinner on a Wednesday night.  Written by former  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  chief technology officer
 Nathan Myhrvold  along with the team that helped him put together
the six-volume “Modernist Cuisine,” this is for scientifically
minded cooks who want to make scrambled eggs using the sous vide
method, like Ferran Adria or  Heston Blumenthal . (Myhrvold also
is a columnist for Bloomberg View.)  To prepare hamburgers, start by grinding your own meat,
then add salt precisely one hour before cooking.  Braised short ribs cook in a 144 degree Fahrenheit water
bath for 72 hours.  The photos are breathtaking and the book comes with four
framable prints. And in case you actually want to use it in the
kitchen and not just leave this 11-pound behemoth on the coffee
table, the package includes a separate spiral-bound book of
recipes with waterproof pages.  Thomas Keller  “ Bouchon Bakery ” (Artisan, $50) is big and beautifully
designed, like all of chef  Thomas Keller ’s books. The recipes
aren’t as intimidating as Myhrvold’s, though I doubt many people
will go to Keller for a bran muffin recipe. With Keller’s
trademark precision and clear, simple photographs, you’ll learn
to roll out tart dough, create cream puffs of uniform size and
make several different fillings for eclairs.  Two Worlds  “ Jerusalem ” (Ten Speed, $35) is travel guide, culinary
history and cookbook rolled into one. There are full-page photos
of the city’s rooftops and food markets alongside recipes like
lamb meatballs with barberries, yogurt and herbs, and braised
eggs with lamb, tahini and sumac.  The authors -- Yotam Ottolenghi, who’s Jewish, and Sami
Tamimi, who’s Muslim -- grew up on opposite sides of  Jerusalem 
and now work together in  London . Their book gathers the many
strands of cooking that make up the tapestry of tastes in their
home city.  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  Patrick Cole  on philanthropy,
Catherine Hickley on  art .  To contact the writer of this story:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 