-- Court Voids Illinois Loaded-Gun Ban Outside Home, Work
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-12-11T23:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/court-voids-illinois-loaded-gun-ban-outside-home-work.html
An Illinois law prohibiting people
from carrying a loaded gun except for in their home or business
was struck down by a federal appeals court.  In a 2-1 ruling, a panel of the U.S.  Court of Appeals  in
 Chicago  today  reversed  two lower-court decisions upholding the
law. It ordered the cases returned to the courts for
“declarations of unconstitutionality” and permanent
injunctions.  The judges delayed the ruling from taking effect for 180
days to allow the state’s legislature to write a replacement
measure consistent with public safety and the U.S.
Constitution’s Second Amendment. Illinois is the only state in
the U.S. with an outright ban on carrying a loaded weapon
outside the home.  “One doesn’t have to be a historian to realize that a
right to keep and bear arms for personal self-defense in the
18th century could not rationally have been limited to the
home,” U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner wrote, referring to
the original drafting of the Constitution and the 1791
ratification of the amendment.  The amendment reads in full, “A well regulated militia
being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of
the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.”  Supreme Court  The U.S.  Supreme Court  in 2008 ruled that the amendment
confers an individual right to keep and bear arms, striking down
a handgun ban in the  District of Columbia  by a 5-4 vote. By the
same margin two years later, the high court invalidated a
Chicago ordinance that banned guns even within the home.  “To confine the right to be armed to the home is to
divorce the Second Amendment from the right of self-defense”
described in those rulings, according to Posner’s opinion, in
which he was joined by U.S. Circuit Judge Joel Flaum.  Circuit Judge Ann Claire Williams dissented.  “Reasonable people can differ on how guns should be
regulated,” she wrote. “Illinois has chosen to prohibit most
forms of public carry of ready-to-use guns.”  Absent what she called “clearer indication” that the
Second Amendment codified a right to carry guns in public for
self-defense, Williams said, that judgment should have been left
to the state.  Attorney General  “The court gave 180 days before its decision will be
returned to the lower court to be implemented,” state Attorney
General Lisa Madigan said in an e-mailed statement. “That time
period allows our office to review what legal steps can be taken
and enables the legislature to consider whether it wants to take
action.”  One of the lawsuits was filed last year by the Bellvue,
Washington-based gun rights group, the Second Amendment
Foundation.  “We are very happy with Judge Posner’s majority opinion,”
Alan M. Gottlieb, the group’s founder and executive vice
president, said in a press statement.  “This is a victory for Illinois citizens who have been
long denied a right recognized in the other 49 states; to have
the means necessary for self-defense outside the home,”
Gottlieb said.  The other case was filed last year by the Illinois State
Rifle Association.  Crafting Law  “We always felt that the Illinois law was
unconstitutional, and it is,” Richard Pearson, executive
director of the Chatsworth, Illinois-based group, said today in
a phone interview.  He said the group looks forward to working with the state
legislature in crafting the new law.  A bill called the Family and Personal Protection Act  was
introduced by Harrisburg Representative  Brandon W. Phelps , a
Democrat, last year.  While it permitted the concealed carrying of handguns, the
measure made bars, schools, churches, sporting events and other
venues off limits, Phelps said today in a phone interview.  The legislator said the bill will probably expire with the
end of the current legislative session on Jan. 9  and that new
legislation will be drafted.  “There’s going to be a lot of people wanting to have input
now,” Phelps said.  Should the state fail to get a bill passed and signed by
Governor  Pat Quinn  within the time frame set forth by the court,
there will be no Illinois law limiting the carrying of guns, the
legislator said.  The cases are Moore v. Madigan, 12-1269 and Shepard v.
Madigan, 12-1788,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Seventh Circuit
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  