-- Cruz Joins Heitkamp as New Senator Forming Leadership PAC
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-12-11T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/cruz-joins-heitkamp-as-new-senator-forming-leadership-pac.html
Ted Cruz  and Heidi Heitkamp haven’t
begun serving their freshman years in the  U.S. Senate , yet they
are already raising money like congressional leaders.  Cruz, a Texas Republican, and Heitkamp, a North Dakota
Democrat, established “leadership” political action committees
within days of winning election on Nov. 6. Another newly elected
Democratic senator,  Tim Kaine  of Virginia, a former national
party chairman, set up his leadership PAC earlier this month.
Nine newly elected House members didn’t even wait until Election
Day before forming their PACs.  Originally the province of senior House and Senate members,
such PACs have become as ubiquitous as re-election committees,
allowing lawmakers to collect additional money from their
supporters. They provide lawmakers with money to donate to other
federal and state candidates, travel to attend political and
party events, and conduct other election-related activities
without tapping their own campaign accounts.  “This is just a second fundraising machine for
incumbents,” said  Craig Holman , a lobbyist for  Public Citizen ,
a Washington-based advocacy group that favors stronger campaign-
finance regulations.  Earning Chits  The number of leadership PACs is growing: 422 made
donations to federal candidates in 2012, up from 226 a decade
earlier, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group. These PACs are sponsored by
current lawmakers, former members and other political figures
such as 2008 Republican vice-presidential nominee Sarah Palin.  By helping other candidates, lawmakers earn chits to redeem
for support when they seek higher office or climb the leadership
ladder in Congress.  Both 2012 presidential candidates had leadership PACs
before they sought the White House.  As a newly elected U.S. senator,  Barack Obama  set up his
PAC in January 2005. And after leaving the Massachusetts
governorship in 2007,  Mitt Romney  used leadership PACs to help
fellow Republicans before both his 2008 and 2012 White House
campaigns.  The three most generous leadership PACs in 2012 were all
sponsored by congressional leaders. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, used his leadership PAC to dole
out $2.1 million to congressional candidates, while House
Speaker  John Boehner ’s PAC contributed $1.7 million and House
Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer’s PAC gave out $1.2 million. Boehner
is an  Ohio Republican ; Hoyer a Maryland Democrat.  Backing Candidates  Cruz, 41, registered his Jobs, Growth and Freedom Fund on
Nov. 12. Heitkamp, 57, followed with her Dakota Prairie PAC on
Nov. 14.  “A leadership PAC allows Ted and his supporters to back
candidates around the country with similar views on economic
growth, free markets, and limited government,” said Sean Rushton, a spokesman for Cruz. “The PAC will help Ted spread
his message and build support for the reforms he wants to see.”  Phone calls to Heitcamp’s campaign office weren’t returned
over a three-week period.  A Kaine spokesman,  Michael Kelly , said the senator-elect
wanted to support candidates who agreed with his campaign
promise “to seek common ground with colleagues of both parties
to break through the Senate’s recent gridlock and address our
nation’s challenges.”  Four other freshmen senators -- Democrats Joe Donnelly of
 Indiana , Martin Heinrich of New Mexico and Tammy Baldwin of
 Wisconsin , and Republican Jeff Flake of Arizona -- had
leadership PACs while serving in the U.S. House. A fifth House
member, Democrat Mazie Hirono of Hawaii, waited until after she
was elected to the Senate before setting up a PAC in December.  Contribution Limits  Federal law restricts the size of contributions to
candidate re-election committees to $5,000 for individuals and
$10,000 for PACs for the primary and general elections combined.
Thanks to the leadership PACs, those same donors will be able to
give an extra $5,000 per year to the candidate.  For a senator, who serves six years, that’s an extra
$30,000 in donations, six times the amount an individual can
give to a campaign committee and three times what a PAC can
donate.  Doctors and other health professionals provided the biggest
source of campaign cash in 2012 for the re-election of
Representative  Dave Camp , 59, a Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee with jurisdiction
over health issues, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics. They also were the second-biggest source of money for
his leadership PAC.  Tax Jurisdiction  Ways and Means also has jurisdiction over taxes, and
securities and investment industry employees and executives,
directly affected by levies on  capital gains  and carried
interest, were the second most-generous donors to Camp’s
campaign committee and the No. 1 giver to his leadership PAC.  Representative Steve Stivers, 47, an Ohio Republican who
serves on the Financial Services Committee and was first elected
two years ago with anti-tax Tea Party support, saw employees in
the insurance, commercial banking and real estate industries
account for three of the four biggest sources of donations to
both his campaign committee and leadership PAC.  Lawyers were the biggest donors to first-term Senator  Chris Coons , 49, a Delaware Democrat who sits on the Judiciary
Committee. They’re also the top contributors to his leadership
PAC.  ‘Special Interests’  “It provides special interests with a means of throwing
money at the feet of incumbent lawmakers with the expectation of
getting something in return,” Holman said.  Camp, Stivers and Coons didn’t respond to requests for
comment made through their press offices.  The leadership PACs set up by the newly elected House
members before they officially won their offices include two
with acronyms that spell part the their sponsor’s names: Arizona
Republican Matt Salmon’s Safeguarding American Liberties, Morals
and Opportunities Now (Salmon) PAC, formed Oct. 26; and
Washington Democrat Derek Kilmer’s Defense, Economic Renewal,
Education and Knowledge (Derek) PAC, created Oct. 2.  The other incoming freshman representatives with leadership
PACs are Ron DeSantis of Florida, Dan Kildee of Michigan,  Ann Wagner  of  Missouri , Robert Pittenger of  North Carolina , Joaquin Castro and Roger Williams of Texas, and Mark Pocan of Wisconsin.  “This would have been silly even a decade ago,,” said
 Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the Center for Responsive
Politics. “Freshmen understand that it’s now standard. Money is
just swirling. Everyone is trying to ratchet up their
fundraising ability, the capacity to bring in money through each
and every possible avenue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 