-- Czech Central Banker Janacek Doesn’t See Imminent Policy Easing
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-12-11T08:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/czech-central-banker-janacek-doesn-t-see-imminent-policy-easing.html
Further Czech central bank policy
easing through koruna sales doesn’t appear imminent, board
member Kamil Janacek said.  Janacek commented on economic developments and monetary
policy outlook in an interview in Prague.  ON INFLATION AND MONETARY POLICY:  “Demand inflation pressures from the domestic economy are
non-existent at present. For us, the main inflation threat would
be a continued increase in agriculture commodities on world
markets.  ‘‘It’s quite evident that domestic demand, with a high
probability, won’t represent an inflation threat in the next
three or four quarters.  ‘‘We cut the policy rates three times this year, which was
followed by a decline in market  interest rates . Interest rates
for corporate loans and mortgages are at historic lows. The
second dimension of our policy decisions was the psychological
effect. This means a signal that the central bank, within its
mandate of  price stability , will try to improve economic
conditions.  ‘‘We are expecting a further slight decline in market
interest rates, even though the policy rate is effectively zero.
It has been said already that we will be ready to use other
instruments to achieve our goal.  ‘‘I consider the foreign-exchange channel to be a standard
policy tool, and I won’t have a problem if we use it, should the
economic situation require further easing of monetary
conditions. I believe that we will be ready to intervene if it’s
needed.  ‘‘But right now, I’m in a wait-and-see position, and a
further relaxation of monetary policy does not look imminent. I
have to wait and analyze the situation, inflation trends in the
first quarter of next year will be an important factor in this
respect.’’  ON ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE:  ‘‘Net exports were the only factor slowing the decline in
economic activity in the first three quarter of the year. The
development of foreign demand for Czech exports will be very
important for future performance of our economy.  ‘‘We expect trends in the domestic economy from this year
to continue next year, especially in the first half. We forecast
that there will be a shift from stagnation, or a slight
recession, visible in the first half of the year, into a
recovery of growth in the second half of 2013.  ‘‘This expectation is based on these three key
preconditions: that a recovery will occur in our main trading
partners; that households will cease to defer consumption and
will somewhat reduce the rate of their savings; and that
companies will start to invest.  ‘‘I think that when we see some improvement in overall
economic situation, an improvement in perception among people
and businesses will follow. The Czech economy, especially when
compared with some other EU countries, is in a much better shape
than how it’s perceived by the public and the corporate
sector.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  