-- Dana Gas Jumps Most in 11 Months on Debt Revamp: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-12-11T11:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/dana-gas-jumps-most-in-11-months-on-debt-revamp-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  rallied the most in
almost 11 months on bets the United Arab Emirates fuel
producer’s $920 million Islamic bond restructuring will spur
profit growth.  The shares advanced 7.5 percent, the most since Jan. 18, to
43 fils at the close in Abu Dhabi. The company was the second-
biggest gainer in Abu Dhabi’s ADX General Index today, as 83
million Dana Gas shares were traded, almost eight times the 12-
month daily average. The company yesterday had its price
estimate raised 55 percent to 87 fils at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE
after the debt revamp announcement. The investment bank
maintained a buy rating on the stock.  Dana Gas shares dropped 4.4 percent this year on concern
the natural gas supplier may default, compared with a 9 percent
gain for the benchmark  ADX General Index. (ADSMI)  The company, which was
forced to restructure the debt after political instability in
 Egypt  and  Iraq ’s Kurdish region led to payment delays, will pay
bondholders $70 million in cash and split the remaining Shariah-
compliant debt into $425 million tranches of convertible bonds
and ordinary sukuk, it said yesterday.  “In the wake of this successful restructuring process with
creditors, we believe the company can now refocus on operations
in Egypt and Kurdistan,” EFG-Hermes said in a note. The bank
expects the company to post a 30 percent increase in  2013 profit 
as it anticipates “the market to recognize Dana Gas’s
underlying value.”  Most-Traded  The gas producer, which is based in the U.A.E. emirate of
Sharjah,  may post 12 percent  growth in 2012 net income to 565
million dirhams ($154 million), according to the average
estimate of five analysts on Bloomberg, after posting profit
increases in the previous two years. Dana Gas’s shares are
undervalued and are worth 90 fils, Exotix Ltd. said today,
placing a buy rating on the stock. The company was the most-
traded in the Gulf Cooperation Council so far today, according
to the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index. (BGCC200)   Four analysts have a buy rating on the stock, while two
have the stock on hold, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Dana Gas has an  estimated price-to-earnings ratio  of 5.6 times,
compared with 8.4 times for the ADX. The company’s  debt-to-
equity ratio  is 22 percent, compared with 121 percent for
 Comstock Resources Inc. (CRK) , the Frisco, Texas-based oil and
natural-gas producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  