-- Daniel Och, Paulson, Ackman, Boaz Weinstein, Ivanka Trump
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-12-11T15:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/daniel-och-paulson-ackman-boaz-weinstein-ivanka-trump.html
Saba Capital Management LP founder
 Boaz Weinstein ’s wife, Tali, looked up at her husband on the
dais.  “Fix your flower,” she told him of the white rose on his
lapel, sloping downward.  “Don’t worry,” said  Bill Ackman , founder of Pershing
Square Group LLC. “I’ll take care of it.”  A moment later the ballroom was dark and the UJA-Federation
of  New York  Wall Street  Dinner  had begun.  In the room last night were 1,500 guests, a record number
of attendees, who raised $23 million to fund more than 100
agencies in New York and  Israel .  Almost 50 big donors were seated on a dual-level platform
at the front of the ballroom of the New York Hilton, among them
Alan “Ace” Greenberg, flanked by Scott Shleifer of Tiger
Global Management LLC and  John Paulson  of Paulson & Co.;  Bruce Richards  of Marathon Asset Management LP; and Ivanka Trump, who
doesn’t work in finance. No one complained.  “On the dais, it feels like an obligation to stand up and
be seen,” said Alex Ehrlich, a managing director at  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)  “Frankly, you’d rather not have attention called to
yourself, but you want to set an example.”  Further thrust into the spotlight: Weinstein, who received
the Wall Street Young Leadership Award, and  Robert Kapito ,
president of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , who received the Gustave L. Levy
Award.  Culinary Prowess  Speeches noted both men’s commitment to the community; only
Kapito’s wife, Ellen, an oncology nurse, addressed his culinary
prowess.  “He even grows the wheat,” she said in an interview. “I
do the sides, he likes to do the main dishes. And he uses all
the pots and pans.”  At the event, Paulson supped on roast beef and chicken and
Israeli salad; Kapito’s daughter Shira filled up on sushi; her
boyfriend of a year liked the Tater Tots.  The program included a celebration of the third night of
Chanukah.  “It’s not that often you get to sing ‘Maoz Tzur’ with
1,500 Jews,” Rabbi Angela Buchdahl said before starting the
song known in English as “Rock of Ages.”  Daniel Och, chief executive of  Och-Ziff Capital Management
Group LLC , received an unwrapped Chanukah present from a guest:
a DVD copy of “Follow Me: The Yoni Netanyahu Story,” a film
about an Israeli army commander in Operation Entebbe.  ‘Connecting Donors’  Och, senior chairman of the UJA’s investment-management
division, said the UJA has made strides in “connecting donors
to where the dollars go” and “creating smaller groups where
everyone matters and gets to express what’s important to them.”  Greenberg, a legendary figure at the event, acknowledged
that writing a check to charity “is a personal choice. Give it
to dogs.” He said he gives to UJA because it “takes care of
people of all ages -- little people, old people, sick people.”  UJA has designated $10 million for Sandy relief.  Trump said her company has been sending supplies to help
hurricane victims in the Rockaways, including bottles of
shampoo.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Laurie Muchnick on  books , Catherine
Hickley on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 