-- Clifford Chance, Debevoise, Kaye Scholer: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-12-11T12:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/debevoise-simpson-thacher-kaye-scholer-business-of-law.html
Clifford Chance  LLP, the U.K.’s
highest-grossing law firm, has formed an alliance with new
 Singapore  firm Cavenagh Law LLP to expand its practice in the
Southeast Asian city into litigation.  London-based Clifford Chance was one of six foreign firms
awarded a license in 2008 to practice corporate law in Singapore
and the alliance adds to the U.K. firm’s arbitration and
regulatory practices in the city, the two firms said in a joint
statement today.  Singapore has been liberalizing its legal market and 23
foreign law firms applied for licenses to offer corporate law
advice in August. The number of foreign lawyers in the city has
almost doubled to 1,200 at the end of 2011 from 633 in 2007.  “The recent steps in the liberalization process taken by
the Singapore government further strengthen Singapore’s position
as a pre-eminent global legal hub,” Cavenagh’s Managing Partner
Harpreet Singh said in the statement.  Cavenagh was founded this year as a disputes boutique with
three partners, one counsel and five associates. Its three
partners are also partners at Clifford Chance.  Clifford Chance has  35 offices  in 25 countries with about
3,400 lawyers. Clifford Chance won approval to open an office in
 Seoul ,  South Korea , earlier this year and last year it opened
offices in Sydney and Perth, West Australia.  Deals  Debevoise, Simpson Thacher Advise on $4.23 Billion AIG Deal  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
are advising on a deal involving a Chinese group that agreed to
buy 80.1 percent of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s  plane-
leasing unit  for $4.23 billion.  Debevoise & Plimpton is providing AIG with legal advice,
and Simpson Thacher is doing so for the investors.  The Debevoise team is led by partner John M. Vasily and
includes partners Andrew L. Bab, Geoffrey P. Burgess, Jeffrey P. Cunard, Peter A. Furci, Jonathan F. Lewis and Burt Rosen.  The lead Simpson Thacher corporate partners on the deal
were Katie Sudol, Dan Clivner and Phil Culhane.  New York 
corporate partner Alan Brenner was also part of the team.  The International Lease Finance Corp. acquirers, led by New
 China  Trust Co. Chairman Weng Xianding, have an option to buy
another 9.9 percent, New York-based AIG said yesterday in a
statement. The transaction, which values ILFC at $5.3 billion,
passes China Investment Corp.’s $3 billion purchase of a stake
in  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in 2007 as the biggest Chinese-U.S. deal.  The acquisition gives the group control of the world’s
second-largest aircraft lessor as rising travel in China and
 Asia  spurs demand for planes. AIG, which counts the U.S.
government as its largest investor, is selling the Los Angeles-
based unit as Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  focuses
on insurance operations and works to reduce debt.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Kaye Scholer Tops Peer Firms With Extra Bonuses for Associates  Top-earning New York law firms have mostly matched Cravath
Swaine Moore LLP in rewarding associates with bonuses that top
out at $60,000. Kaye Scholer LLP, however, has upped its reward
to associates, giving an extra $10,000 to $20,000 to those who
have billed more than 2,200 hours this year.  Associates in the class of 2004 or older will get $80,000
if they’ve billed above 2,200 hours. Associates from the 2011
class who logged more than 2,200 hours will see an extra $10,000
added onto a $10,000 bonus.  In a memo issued last week, Mike Solow, Kaye Scholer’s
managing partner, said that the bonuses were designed to
recognize those who exceeded expectations.  “Every year there are some associates whose performance is
truly outstanding, sacrificing from their personal lives to
serve Kaye Scholer and our clients. We therefore only think it
appropriate that those associates deserve a little extra at
bonus time, which is why we instituted the two-tier bonus system
three years ago, and continue it this year,” Solow said in the
statement.  Moves  Mayer Brown Equity Practice Co-Chairman Joins Dechert in N.Y.  Dechert LLP announced that Andrew Hulsh, previously a
partner at Mayer Brown LLP and co-leader of that firm’s North
American private equity practice, has joined the firm as a
corporate partner in New York.  “We are very pleased to have Andy join Dechert,” said
Henry N. Nassau, chairman of the firm’s corporate practice.
“His extensive experience and the global nature of his practice
will add even further depth to our strong international private
equity capabilities.”  Hulsh focuses his practice on complex domestic and cross-
border private equity and mergers and acquisitions transactions,
including negotiated and unsolicited contests for corporate
control. He also advises clients on venture capital investments
and public offerings of equity, debt and hybrid securities as
well as employment and compensation arrangements.  Dechert has lawyers in 26 offices worldwide.  Jones Day Hires Banking & Finance Partner Michelle Chen  Jones Day  hired Michelle Chen as a banking and finance
partner in the Singapore Office. Chen was formerly a partner
with Herbert Smith Freehills LLP, the firm said.  Chen focuses her practice on structured finance,
particularly project finance and pre-export finance in the
energy sector. She also has experience in credit insurance,
restructuring, and general financings.  Chen is admitted as a solicitor in England and  Wales ,  Hong
Kong , and Singapore.  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 37 offices
throughout the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Hunton & Williams Hires Environmental Lawyers in Los Angeles  Hunton & Williams LLP has added two lawyers, partner
Colleen Doyle and a counsel to the firm’s environmental law
practice group. Formerly with Bingham McCutchen LLP, the lawyers
are based in the firm’s  Los Angeles  office. They rejoin Scott Burton, a partner who moved to the firm from Bingham in 2008.  Doyle’s national practice and international client base
include petroleum, mining, chemicals, and other industrial and
municipal clients.  Hunton & Williams has added almost 100 lawyers across its
international and U.S. offices since December of 2011, the firm
said. Seven lawyers, including Doyle, have joined the firm’s Los
Angeles and San Francisco offices in the past year.  Hunton & Williams has more than 800 lawyers in 19 offices
around the world.  Litigation  Dragon Systems Founders Take Goldman to Trial Over Advice  Jim and Janet Baker, pioneers in the field of computer
speech recognition, turned to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in late
1999 when they needed investment bankers to advise them on the
sale of Dragon Systems Inc., the company they had spent 17 years
building.  In a federal lawsuit that went to trial yesterday in
 Boston , the Bakers claim that shoddy work by Goldman Sachs on
the $580 million all-stock sale of Dragon to a Belgian
competitor, Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products NV, cost them
their company and their fortune.  Within months of the sale’s June 2000 close, Lernout &
Hauspie collapsed in an accounting scandal and its shares that
the Bakers took as payment for their 51 percent stake in Dragon
were worthless.  Goldman Sachs says it isn’t to blame. The fraud at Lernout
& Hauspie, which the bank said it couldn’t have been expected to
discover, caused the Bakers’ losses, Goldman Sachs argued in
court papers.  The bank also said its contract was with Dragon, which no
longer exists, and argued that the Bakers themselves lack legal
standing to sue. The New York-based bank said it advised Dragon
to get its accountants, Arthur Andersen LLP, to probe Lernout &
Hauspie’s financial status.  Their case will be considered by a jury of six, with as
many as six alternates, who were selected yesterday in the
courtroom of U.S. District Judge Patti Saris.  In a pretrial hearing, Saris said the Bakers case may take
as long as five weeks to try. After opening statements, the
first witness will be either Jim or Janet Baker, their lawyer,
 Alan Cotler  of Reed Smith LLP, told Saris.  The judge yesterday denied a request by Goldman Sachs to
delay the trial because of statements made by Cotler to the
press.  She ordered the lawyer not to talk to reporters about the
case.  “You cannot talk to the press,” she told Cotler, who was
quoted last week in a Boston Globe column about the case. “You
cannot. I don’t know why you did.”  She ordered Goldman Sachs to remove from its website
arguments it posted about its defenses.  The case is Baker v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 09-cv-10053, U.S.
District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  For more, click here.  Video  Five Richest Lawyers in America; Wal-Mart’s Walton Top of List  Inspired by a post on the website Above the Law, we asked
our  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  colleagues to research the
wealthiest lawyers in America, based on new worth as of Nov. 16.
None of their fortunes are from practicing law:  Robert Rowling is No. 5. He briefly practiced tax law
before joining his father’s oil and gas company.  Randa Duncan Williams, daughter of oil billionaire Dan
Duncan, ranked fourth.  New York’s Richard LeFrak is No. 3. He went into the family
real-estate business after law school.  Richard Kinder  was listed in second place. He practiced law
in Houston, then joined his friend Ken Lay at Enron. Kinder is
now the chief executive officer of Kinder Morgan Inc., the
biggest U.S. pipeline operator.  Rob Walton, chairman of Wal-Mart Stores Inc., ranked first.  Click here for the video.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 