-- Dell Will Focus on Acquisitions to Complement Hardware, CEO Says
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-12-11T21:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/dell-will-focus-on-acquisitions-to-complement-hardware-ceo-says.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , which has spent more than
$12.7 billion on 18 acquisitions since 2009, will focus on small
and medium-size deals to add tools that complement its personal
computers and servers, founder  Michael Dell  said.  Dell has spent about $5 billion just this year, and will
keep buying companies that offer systems management, security
technology and so-called virtualization, said Dell, who is also
chief executive officer, at the  Dell World  customer conference
in Austin,  Texas . The conference runs through Dec. 13.  “We have found that there are certain kinds of
acquisitions that work very well for us,” said Dell, who
appeared at today’s event with company presidents Stephen Felice, Marius Haas, Suresh Vaswani, John Swainson and Jeff Clarke. The company will also continue “organic” investments
in technology, he said.  Dell is struggling to transform from a supplier of PCs --
which still account for almost half its  sales  -- into a maker of
more lucrative servers,  business software , and storage and
networking gear. Analysts predict Dell’s  gross margin , a measure
of profitability, will narrow to 22.1 percent for the fiscal
year ending in January, from 22.3 percent a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales and earnings are also declining. Revenue may  fall  8.5
percent this year to $56.8 billion, and profit excluding some
items may  slip  to $1.71 a share, according to the average
estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  PC Slump  The third-largest PC maker is suffering as companies wait
to upgrade PCs and consumers turn to smartphones and tablets
like Apple Inc.’s iPhone and iPad. PC shipments tumbled 8.3
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, according to
market researcher Gartner Inc., and are forecast to fall this
year for the first annual decline since 2001, according to IHS
ISuppli.  To diversify,  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell has been
snapping up  companies  including  Quest Software  in data-center
management, Force10 Networks in computer networking and
Compellent Technologies in data storage. Dell had $14.2 billion
in cash and investments at the end of the fiscal third quarter,
the company said last month on a conference call.  Dell plans to keep making acquisitions around the size of
Gale Technologies, which had $20 million to $30 million in
sales, Swainson said today in an interview. That deal closed
last month.  Dell  shares  rose less than 1 percent $10.67 at the close in
 New York . The stock -- which has dropped 27 percent this year --
is up 11 percent this month, getting a boost after Bill Shope,
an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., upgraded the stock to
 buy . Shope said the company’s net cash and the presence of
Michael Dell as a potential acquirer of more shares could
present an opportunity for a leveraged buyout.  The CEO is scheduled to give an address in Austin tomorrow
at noon New York time with former President  Bill Clinton .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  