-- Demand for Asia-Pacific Real Estate May Increase, LaSalle Says
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-12-11T13:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/demand-for-asia-pacific-real-estate-may-increase-lasalle-says.html
Demand for real estate in the Asia-
Pacific region will increase next year as economies get
stronger and institutional investors diversify their portfolios,
LaSalle Investment Management Inc. said.  Bolstered by low  interest rates  and fiscal measures,
economic growth may strengthen next year in  Asia  and lead to a
gradual pick-up in investment decisions, LaSalle said. Real
estate values may be boosted by an abrupt economic recovery in
 China , according to the investment management company, which has
$47 billion assets under management.  “The demand for core opportunities has not diminished
throughout the past few years, and it is only projected to grow
as Asian pension, insurance and sovereign wealth funds expand
their allocations to real estate,” Paul Guest, Asian strategist
with LaSalle, said in an e-mailed statement. Investments
“should broaden provided there is no additional shock and
stimulus rekindles growth as anticipated.”  Property prices may gain as higher public spending and
younger populations support domestic demand and lure investment,
even as the global expansion weakens. The Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said last month a
combination of “cyclical factors, government policies, and
longer-term shifts in economic structure” are likely to
continue to underpin consumption in  Southeast Asia , China and
 India .  Demand for real estate in the region may increase as state-
owned investment companies such as China Investment Corp., known
as CIC, diversify assets to offset volatility. CIC’s alternative
investments surged almost 40 percent in 2011, according to the
company’s annual report, and  Norway ’s $650 billion sovereign
wealth fund got approval in 2010 to invest as much as 5 percent
of its capital in real estate, up from 0.3 percent at the end of
June this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  