-- Democrats’ Filibuster Plan May Backfire
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-11T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/democrats-filibuster-plan-may-backfire.html
Harry Reid  is promising to go
nuclear in January. The U.S. Senate majority leader says he will
attempt a controversial procedure on the first day of the new
Congress to limit the use of the filibuster by Republicans.  Bravo, you may be thinking. The filibuster has surely been
 abused  in recent years, keeping many a worthy bill from becoming
law and dozens of presidential nominees from getting confirmed.
Still, Reid and his Democratic colleagues should be careful what
they wish for. Sure as the tides roll in and out, Democrats will
be in the minority again. Tying Republican hands today means
tying their own hands later.  Reid has three changes in mind, all of which seem modest.
Instead of requiring 60 votes to begin debating a bill, Reid
wants to be able to start with just 51 votes. He wants to be
able to send Senate-passed bills to conference with the House
using the same simple majority instead of having to round up
two-thirds of the Senate (a next-to-impossible 67 votes). And he
wants senators to filibuster the old-fashioned way -- by
standing on the floor, talking nonstop until they give up or a
supermajority votes to shut them up.  Minority Rights  Senators for  decades  have sought to reduce the filibuster
threat once they’re in the majority. In 1975, the Senate lowered
to 60 from 67 the number of votes needed to pre-emptively cut
off a filibuster through a procedure known as cloture. There are
exceptions: Senate rule changes still require 67 votes, as do
motions to send bills to a House-Senate conference.  In 2005, when Republicans controlled the Senate, they
threatened to push through a rule change to cut off Democratic
filibusters of President  George W. Bush ’s judicial nominees. In
retaliation, Democrats said they would block all Senate business
and essentially shut down the chamber. The situation was defused
when a so-called Gang of 14 -- seven senators from each party --
agreed to end filibusters of judicial nominees except in
extraordinary circumstances.  Seven years later, the filibuster is more potent than ever.
Democrats say that, since taking control of the Senate in 2007,
they’ve had to deal with Republican filibuster threats (no one
actually filibusters anymore, they just threaten to) almost 400
times, rendering the chamber dysfunctional. When  Lyndon B. Johnson  led the Senate in the 1960s, he faced only one
filibuster. Frustrated liberal interest groups have sued,
alleging that filibusters violate the principle of majority rule
and therefore are unconstitutional. A hearing on the lawsuit --a
long shot -- was held this week in U.S. District Court for the
 District of Columbia .  Now come Reid and a band of  reform-minded  senators with
another idea: They contend that the Constitution allows the
presiding officer (Vice President Joseph Biden), on the first
day of a new Congress, to declare that a simple majority of the
Senate can end debate on a rule change. Their legal rationale,
and on this point they are probably correct, is that unless the
Constitution specifies a supermajority (which it doesn’t), a
simple majority suffices to alter Senate rules.  Reid insists he’s not ending the filibuster -- Republicans
could still mount a talkathon to stop a final vote on anything -
- but merely wants to make the Senate more efficient. If he is
successful, just the threat of more changes to filibuster rights
could be enough to keep the minority in line.  At any rate, Republicans say Reid’s nuclear option would
run roughshod over existing rules and centuries of tradition in
which procedural changes required bipartisan agreement.  With 53 Democratic senators and two independents promising
to caucus with the majority, Reid appears to have numbers on his
side. Yet even some Democrats aren’t convinced he is right. They
worry that ramming this down Republicans’ throats would drive
them to retaliate by going on strike. It could also upend any
chance of bipartisan cooperation in President  Barack Obama ’s
second term. As Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat,
put it, “We are playing with nitroglycerin here.” We agree.  Two Sides  It’s important to remember that there are two sides to this
story. The reason Republicans force Reid to round up 60 yes
votes, even on mundane matters, is that he, like majority
leaders before him, runs the Senate as a satrapy. He alone
decides what legislation to bring to the floor, and when. He
also routinely denies the minority the right to amend
legislation. To fight back, Republicans threaten to block the
Senate’s ability to take up measures. Reid’s proposed changes
would prevent this.  What both sides need is a cease-fire. Republicans, for
example, could agree to let Democrats open debate or form
conference committees with 51 votes so that the Senate wastes
less time. In return, Democrats could agree to give the minority
at least a minimum of floor time to amend legislation, as long
as the amendments are germane.  To reduce the sheer number of filibuster threats, both
sides could agree to require potential talkers to have the
support of at least 40 other senators to keep a blockade going,
or else a simple majority could shut it down. The filibuster
burden, which now rests with the majority to stop by rounding up
60 cloture votes, would switch to the minority, which would have
to prove it has the 41 votes to keep going. And while lawmakers
are at it, they should all agree to ban the use of “holds,”
the secretive process in which a lone senator can stop a
presidential nominee or legislation without leaving any
fingerprints.  When Republicans contemplated the nuclear option in 2005, a
senior Democrat said it was “ultimately an example of the
arrogance of power.” Those were the words of then-Senator  Joe
Biden . He was right then, and he’s right now.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 