-- Deutsche Bank Said to Pare U.S. Commodities as Silbert Exits
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-12-11T18:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/deutsche-bank-said-to-pare-u-s-commodities-power-gas-traders.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Europe’s biggest
lender by assets, is dismissing power and gas traders in the
U.S. as commodities chief David Silbert prepares to leave, said
a person briefed on the matter.  The firings affect fewer than half the U.S. power and gas
traders working for the Frankfurt-based bank, and are part of
the 1,900 job cuts announced by Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain in July, according to the person, who asked for anonymity
because the moves haven’t been publicly announced.  Deutsche Bank doesn’t plan to exit or reduce services in
its commodities business, and traders in  segments  such as
metals, mining, coal, iron and steel aren’t affected, the person
said.  Silbert’s departure was previously reported by the trade
publication SparkSpread. He didn’t immediately respond to
inquiries about his job status.  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for
the bank in New York, said the company declined to comment.  Deutsche Bank’s move comes as two other banks scaled back
commodities trading operations.  Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest lender, planned
to close its oil, base metals and agriculture trading desks as
part of a move to cut about 10,000 jobs, a person with direct
knowledge of the decision said Oct. 31.  London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  on Nov. 22 withdrew from floor
trading on the London Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest metals
bourse, as the bank reviewed its businesses to cut costs. The
bank continues to trade electronically and by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Clark in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  