-- Deutsche Bank Will Merge Swiss Wealth Management Units
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-12-11T15:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/deutsche-bank-will-merge-swiss-wealth-management-units.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Europe’s biggest
bank, will merge its  wealth management  units in Switzerland as
it seeks to boost profitability by reducing costs.  The company will integrate Swiss Sal. Oppenheim into 
Deutsche Bank (Switzerland) Ltd. by the end of next year, 
pending regulatory approval, it said in a statement on its 
website today. Any necessary staff reductions “will be 
communicated at an early stage and implemented in a 
considerate manner,” the Frankfurt-based bank said.  Deutsche Bank is cutting 1,993 jobs throughout its business
to help boost profit during the European debt crisis. It’s
counting on wider margins in asset and wealth management as
higher  capital requirements , which regulators are due to
introduce next year, increase costs in  investment banking . The
firm said Oct. 30 it will complete the majority of the job
reductions, including 562 in asset and wealth management, by the
end of this year.  “The difficult market environment is driving a
consolidation process in the industry worldwide,” Marco Bizzozero, who heads Deutsche Bank’s Swiss unit, said in the
statement. “Efficient structures and offerings consistently
geared to the needs of clients will be more important than ever
for a successful bank model.”  Sal. Oppenheim Switzerland lacks “critical mass,” said
Bizzozero, who is also head of wealth management for Deutsche
Bank in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, excluding
Germany.  Deutsche Bank said it will cease to use the brand of its
Swiss Sal. Oppenheim unit. The wealth manager’s business outside
Switzerland, based in Cologne and covering  Germany , Austria and
Luxembourg, won’t be affected, Deutsche Bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  