-- Diageo Ends Cuervo Talks, Will Terminate Distribution Deal
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-12-11T14:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/diageo-ends-talks-about-cuervo-s-future-will-terminate-deal.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest
distiller, abandoned talks to acquire Cuervo tequila and will
seek to end its 26-year-old agreement to distribute the brand,
fueling speculation that it may try to find a substitute.  Discussions with Cuervo owners JB y Compania SA de C.V. and
Lanceros S.A. de C.V. failed to bring an agreement that would
have created value for Diageo shareholders, Paul Walsh, chief
executive officer of the London-based  distiller , said in a
statement today. Diageo’s accord to distribute the tequila
outside of  Mexico  is due to expire at the end of June.  Diageo may now set its sights on  Beam Inc. (BEAM) , which owns the
tequila brand Sauza, said Anthony Bucalo, an analyst at Groupo
Santander. The U.K. company has held talks with Suntory Holdings
Ltd. about a potential joint offer for the U.S. distiller, an
official at the Japanese company said yesterday, though they
aren’t currently in negotiations.  “Our expectation was that cooler heads would prevail,”
Bucalo said in a report, referring to the failure of Diageo to
reach an agreement with Cuervo’s owners. “The operational
bright side is that this failure to come to terms with Cuervo
clears the regulatory path in an advantageous way for Diageo on
the issue of tequila.” Sauza is the No. 2 brand behind Cuervo.  Diageo  fell  as much as 1.8 percent in London trading and
was down 1.5 percent at 1,857.5 pence at 2:29 p.m. The decline
trimmed the shares’ gain this year to 32 percent.  The stock “may be weak on the loss of the Cuervo agreement
and concern about a possible high-multiple Beam deal,”
according to Bucalo, who recommends buying Diageo.  ‘First Setback’  Diageo will look at small brands to acquire in the premium
spirits category, Larry Schwartz, head of the company’s U.S.
unit, said on a conference call today.  “Acquisitions, partnerships we might pursue,” Schwartz
said. “Innovation will be big.”  The loss of the Cuervo distribution agreement would trim
expectations for Diageo’s earnings per share from 2014 onwards
by between 2 percent and 3 percent, James Edwardes Jones, an
analyst at RBC  Europe  Ltd., said in a note.  “This is the first setback for Diageo we can recall in a
good 18 months,” he said. “We do not believe the absence of a
tequila brand materially alters the Diageo investment case.”
The end of talks frees up some previously earmarked borrowing
capacity for other possible acquisitions, he said.  Cuervo Option  Diageo has distributed Cuervo outside Mexico since the U.K.
company was created by the 1997 merger of Guinness and Grand
Metropolitan, which gained the agreement through an acquisition
in 1986.  The agreement gave Diageo an option to buy the company. It
had hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc for
advice in exploring gaining control from Cuervo’s family owners,
the Beckmanns, people with knowledge of the matter have said.
The brand was expected to be valued at more than $3 billion.  Cuervo will probably announce a new distribution partner,
potentially Bacardi or Pernod-Ricard SA, according to Laetitia Delaye, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris. Pernod
spokeswoman Stephanie Schroeder declined to comment.  Diageo is seeking growth in markets outside Europe as part
of its plan to get half of its net sales from developing markets
by 2015. The maker of Johnnie Walker last month  bought  a stake
in  India ’s  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  to gain leadership in the world’s
largest whiskey-consuming nation.  Falling Sales  Cuervo generated 300 million pounds ($482 million) of net
sales last fiscal year, a decline of 3 percent, according to
Diageo. Its largest markets are the U.S., Canada, Spain, Greece
and the U.K.  Diageo said today that it will continue to perform strongly
in North America and sees “no material impact” on first-half
results as a result of  Hurricane Sandy .  “Overall  consumer confidence  remains positive” and
retailers are optimistic about the holidays, Schwartz said.  Operating profit as a percentage of sales can improve by 1
percentage point in North America in 2013, he said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  