-- Dish Wireless Proposal by FCC Said to Have Votes to Pass
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-12-11T22:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/dish-wireless-proposal-by-fcc-said-to-have-votes-to-pass.html
A proposal to allow  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH)  to offer mobile-phone service has enough votes to win
approval at the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission ,
according to commission staff members.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski ’s proposal to regulate
Dish’s airwaves has support from at least four of the five FCC
commissioners, including Democrats Genachowski and Jessica Rosenworcel and Republicans Robert McDowell and Ajit Pai,
according to three FCC staff members who asked not to be
identified because the vote hasn’t been made public.  Justin Cole, an FCC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment.  The second-largest U.S. satellite-TV provider needed FCC
approval to start wireless service that could compete with the
largest U.S. mobile provider,  Verizon Wireless , and No. 2  AT&T
Inc. (T)  Dish has built up its spectrum holdings as it seeks to
decrease its reliance on the satellite-TV business, which is
losing subscribers.  Dish has said its ability to enter the wireless business
could be crippled by the proposal’s requirement that it limit
power for its planned network. That’s intended to prevent
interference with government-owned frequencies known as the H
Block, which is slated to be auctioned.  Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , fell 0.4 percent to
$37.02 at the close in New York. The shares have gained 30
percent this year.  ‘Transformative Outcome’  “No matter how you slice it, this is a transformative
outcome for Dish to expand beyond its pay-TV business,”  Paul Gallant , Washington-based managing director at Guggenheim
Securities, said in an interview. “Even if Dish loses the
spectrum interference battle it’s been fighting, it still got
most of what it wanted from the FCC.”  Responding to the FCC’s proposal, Dish last week offered to
let part of its spectrum be used as a so-called guard band to
preserve the H block.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which may seek to
acquire the H Block at auction, responded that Dish’s new
proposal still “would substantially reduce” the value and
utility of the block of frequencies.  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Dish, didn’t immediately return
a call and e-mail seeking comment.  John Taylor , a Sprint
spokesman, declined to comment before an announcement is made by
the FCC.  Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen  met with Genachowski and his
staff Nov. 29, and Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse 
spoke by telephone with the FCC chairman Dec. 5, according to
filings with the agency.  Sprint Partnership  Sprint has approached Dish in recent months about a
potential partnership that would allow the satellite-TV company
to offer mobile-phone service over Sprint’s network, with Sprint
getting access to Dish’s mobile airwaves, according to two
people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be named
because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  An earlier attempt by Genachowski’s FCC to designate
satellite airwaves for smartphone use foundered. The agency in
February reversed its tentative approval to LightSquared Inc.
after officials said the mobile service would interfere with
global positioning system-based navigation gear, and the company
filed for bankruptcy.  The FCC is trying to accommodate rising demand for mobile
 Internet service  as consumers turn to smartphones and data-
hungry tablets. The agency in 2010 voted to ease restrictions on
smartphone use of the airwaves Dish now owns.  Dish first asked for FCC approval in August 2011 after
paying about $3 billion for airwaves from bankrupt satellite
companies DBSD North America Inc. and TerreStar Networks Inc. in
deals  announced  last year.  The agency in March approved Dish’s taking control of the
airwaves, and said it would write the rules that Genachowski has
now proposed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  