-- Djokovic, Serena Williams Named ITF World Champions
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-11T15:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/djokovic-serena-williams-named-itf-world-champions.html
Top-ranked Novak Djokovic and double
Olympic gold medalist  Serena Williams  were named world champions
by the  International Tennis Federation .  “This has been another memorable year for our sport,
highlighted by the most successful Olympic tennis event in
history,” ITF president Francesco Ricci Bitti said in an e-
mailed statement today. “In such a strong era for men’s tennis,
it is a great achievement for Novak to retain his year-end No. 1
ranking, while on the women’s side Serena proved herself to be
one of the finest competitors of all time.”  Serbia’s Djokovic, who also received the ITF honor last
year, successfully defended his Australian Open title at the
start of the season, and reached the finals of the  French Open 
and U.S. Open. The 25-year-old lost in the Wimbledon semifinals
to champion  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland  in July, dropping out
of the top spot. The Belgrade native reclaimed the top ranking
at the start of November, and went on to beat Federer at the
season-ending ATP World Tour Finals in  London  to take his tally
of tournament wins to six this season.  “It was very difficult to follow up such a successful
season in 2011, but it was extremely satisfying to win another
Grand Slam title, reach two other major finals and finish the
year at No. 1,” Djokovic said.  Williams, 31, found success after crashing out of the
French Open in the first round in May. The third-ranked player
won her fifth Wimbledon singles championship in July, before
taking the gold medal in the singles and doubles tournament with
her sister Venus at the London Olympics a month later. In
September, she captured her 15th major title at the  U.S. Open ,
and won the year-end WTA Championships a month later to finish
the season with a Tour-best seven titles.  Third Time  “It means a lot to be named ITF world champion for the
third time,” Williams said. “It has been such an amazing
experience this year to win the Olympics and two Grand Slam
tournaments, and I look forward to having an awesome 2013.”  The ITF’s selection of its senior world champions is based
on a system that considers not only performances in the Grand
Slam events and respective tours, but also gives weight to
performances in the two ITF elite team competitions, the Davis
Cup and Fed Cup.  Just like last year,  Bob and Mike Bryan  were named men’s
doubles world champions. The American twins won Olympic gold at
the London Games and captured their 12th major title at the U.S.
Open to tie the all-time record for Grand Slam doubles
championships.  Sara Errani and  Roberta Vinci  were named women’s doubles
world champions. The first Italian pair to receive the accolade,
they were runners-up at the Australian Open and won  Roland
Garros  and the U.S. Open.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  