-- Dollar Depreciates Against Majors Before Fed Decision
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-12-12T16:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/dollar-remains-lower-versus-euro-as-fed-concludes-meeting.html
The dollar fell to the lowest level
in almost a week versus the euro as investors anticipate the
 Federal Reserve  will announce additional monetary stimulus.  The U.S. currency weakened against its higher-yielding
counterparts as 48 of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect
the central bank to add to bond purchases, known as quantitative
easing, after a two-day meeting concludes today. The yen fell to
the weakest in eight months versus the dollar as Japan’s  Liberal
Democratic Party , which has pledged fiscal stimulus to stoke
economic growth, leads in polls before Dec. 16 elections. The
17-nation euro strengthened after  Bank of Greece (TELL)  Governor  George
Provopoulos  said the nation’s bond buyback was a success.  “Easing is negative for the dollar and at the margin the
Fed will be easing more relative to the euro, the pound, the
yen,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York . “The market has QE fatigue so
this will be only short-term.”  The dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.3041 per euro at 11:19
a.m. in New York, touching the weakest since Dec. 6. The euro
gained 1.1 percent to 108.47 yen. The Japanese currency declined
0.8 percent to 83.17 per dollar, reaching the lowest level since
April 2.  Domestic Considerations  Anticipation that the Fed will add additional dollars by
purchasing Treasuries outweighed negative domestic factors for
other currencies against the greenback.  South Korea’s won rose to the strongest level in 15 months
against the dollar, even after  North Korea  launched a rocket in
defiance of international sanctions.  The currency advanced 0.2 percent to close at 1,074.93 per
dollar in  Seoul . It earlier touched 1,073.64, the strongest
level since Sept. 8, 2011, before paring gains following the
North’s rocket launch.  The Australian dollar climbed to the highest in more than
two months. The so-called Aussie appreciated 0.2 percent to
$1.0546 after rising to the strongest since Sept. 17. Gains were
limited as the nation’s  consumer confidence  slumped by the most
in nine months.  “There is a slightly more benign view of risk today,”
said Michael Derks, chief strategist at FxPro Group Ltd. in
 London . “There’s likely to be more quantitative easing from the
American central bank today.”  Krone Gains  Norway’s krone rallied 0.3 percent to 5.6300 per dollar,
the second largest gain after the Swiss franc.  Crude oil futures advanced 1.3 percent to $86.90 a barrel
in New York as the  International Energy Agency  increased its
demand forecast. Norway is Europe’s largest oil producer and the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries maintained its
quota for a second time this year at a meeting in Vienna as the
group’s members judged prices to be sufficiently high.  LDP leader and former Japanese premier Shinzo Abe has
called for a doubling of the central bank’s inflation goal to 2
percent and “unlimited” easing to end more than a decade of
falling prices. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  is due to a hold a monetary
policy meeting on Dec. 19-20.  The yen lost 6 percent in the past month, the worst
performer among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar fell 1.5
percent, while the euro gained 1.3 percent.  The dollar has slipped versus most of its major
counterparts this week amid speculation the Fed will add
Treasury purchases to an existing program that buys $40 billion
in mortgage bonds each month.  Fed Policy  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will announce $45 billion
in monthly Treasury buying that would push the central bank’s
balance sheet almost to $4 trillion, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 49 economists.  The purchases would follow the expiration at year-end of
the so-called Operation Twist program, which aims to lengthen
the average maturity of the Fed’s holdings. The U.S. central
bank pumped $2.3 trillion into the financial system from 2008 to
2011 in two rounds of the stimulus.  “The bias is for the dollar to be sold,” said Kengo Suzuki, a currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities Co.,
a unit of Japan’s third-largest bank by market value. “The Fed
seems to have no intention to relax its easing stance.”  Greece  plans to repurchase  government bonds  with a face
value of 31.9 billion euros ($41.6 billion) from private
investors including its own banks in a debt buyback to free up
aid for the cash-strapped country.  Greece will pay an average weighted price of 33.8 percent
of face value for bonds maturing from 2023 to 2042, the Athens-
based Public Debt Management Agency said in a statement on its
website today.  The Swiss franc’s rebound from a three-month low against
the euro shows that even bank charges for deposits and a lull in
Europe’s debt crisis can’t deter demand for the currency.  The Zurich-based  Swiss National Bank  will keep its franc
ceiling at 1.20 per euro tomorrow, according to all 14 analysts
in a Bloomberg News survey. While the currency weakened after
Credit Suisse Group AG said on Dec. 3 it would set negative
rates for franc cash balances, it pared almost all those losses
in a three-day run of gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  