-- Don’t Let Country Rifts Stall EU Banking Union
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-11T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/don-t-let-country-rifts-stall-eu-banking-union.html
Time is running out for the European
Union to meet its own year-end deadline to create a single bank
regulator, or at least the legal framework for one. Sadly,
 Europe ’s leaders are again leaning toward procrastination on a
reform crucial to saving the euro.  Europe’s banking problem is entering its fifth year. The EU
has 27 regulators with 27 sets of rules, undercapitalized banks
that can’t afford to lend anymore and governments that lack the
wherewithal to bail them out. Eventually, weak banks will start
to topple, and what has been a slow-burning crisis could become
a disaster.  EU heads of state  agreed  in June to a common banking
authority when they feared that bank runs might occur in  Greece ,
 Italy  and  Spain . In exchange for giving up some national
sovereignty to ensure that every institution follows the same
rules, governments would be able to obtain capital for their
banks directly from the EU’s bailout fund, without adding to
their own liabilities.  It made sense. No longer would individual governments have
to bail out their banks, only to need a rescue of their own
later. The shared risk and stricter supervision of a banking
union were especially important to Spain, which can’t afford to
come to the aid of its sick banks.  When it comes to EU politics, however, nothing is simple.
The  member states  remain at odds over such basics as whether the
 European Central Bank  should be the uber-supervisor and, if so,
whether it should oversee all 6,000 EU banks or just the largest
ones. And if the ECB gets the nod, how would banks in  Sweden ,
the U.K. and other countries that don’t belong to the single
currency -- and therefore don’t have a voice at the ECB -- make
sure their views are represented?  These aren’t small issues. Still, EU finance ministers
should get on with it and, at this week’s EU summit, present
their heads of state with an outline of how a banking union
could operate. At the very least it should include a single
supervisor. It should also offer an EU-wide system of  deposit
insurance  and a process for unwinding failing banks.  One big obstacle is German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who favors a two-tier system in which existing
national regulators remain -- and have the final word in most
cases -- while the ECB oversees a handful of global banks. This
contradicts what the heads of state agreed to and should be
tamped down. It also goes against reality: As Greece, Ireland,
Spain and other countries have seen, small banks are just as
likely to run into trouble as big banks.  Objections over unequal treatment of non-euro countries can
be finessed. The legal problem is that ECB rules can’t be
changed without amending the underlying treaties establishing
the central bank, which could take years. But the EU often
skirts seemingly impossible treaty concerns with practical
solutions.  One option is to make the ECB the ultimate regulator but
require it to consult with non-euro-area governments, perhaps
even giving them a veto during a phase-in period lasting several
years. A variant of that option: Create a euro-area-only bank
regulator and invite other countries to sign up later. After
all, it would be difficult for the ECB to begin monitoring 6,000
banks overnight. In the meantime, as the ECB builds up its
expertise, the euro-area governments could work on a structural
fix for the ECB or pursue treaty amendments.  Only with a supranational banking supervisor can the EU
sever the unhealthy link between banks and governments. Further
delays could undermine the market’s confidence and set back the
clock on this year’s progress.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 