-- East European Cold Snap Cuts Power, Kills at Least 17
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-12-11T14:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/east-european-cold-snap-cuts-power-kills-at-least-15.html
Snowstorms and freezing cold
continued to plague eastern  Europe  and the Balkan peninsula for
a fourth day, killing at least 17 people, blocking traffic and
causing power outages.  Two more people were reported dead in Serbia today,
bringing that country’s death toll to six, according to
broadcaster Radio Televizija Srbije. In Ukraine, at least 191
towns and villages suffered emergency power cuts, while traffic
jams in Kiev are almost at critical levels, according to the
Yandex traffic monitoring service.  Eastern Europe has been hit by a wave of cold Siberian air
and above-normal snowfall, triggering a surge in demand for
natural gas and electricity across the region. Temperatures are
forecast to warm up by the weekend, according to meteorological
services in the region.  “To avoid unforeseen traffic jams and similar
consequences,” the Serbian Transport Ministry banned cargo
transport, leaving trucks loaded with goods idling on  Bulgaria ’s
border.  Power Consumption  Temperatures dipped below minus 20 Celsius (minus 4
Fahrenheit) throughout the region, boosting demand for
electricity. Power consumption rose 8.5 percent in Serbia, which
had to start importing electricity to meet the demand.
Neighboring Croatia reported its worst winter storm since 1955.  A tow truck skidded off a road on the weekend, blocking the
main highway between the Serbian capital, Belgrade, and the
Hungarian border in the north and leaving people in their cars
overnight in a 10-kilometer line. Trucks unprepared for the
snowfall also stopped traffic on Slovenian highways for hours
over the weekend.  The early onset of winter is benefiting Slovenia’s Alpine
ski resorts such as  Krvavec  near the capital Ljubljana, which
received as much as 80 centimeters (2.6 feet) of snow over the
weekend.  Cold weather and lots of fresh snow helped increase
bookings for Christmas and New Year holidays as well as for the
2013 skiing season, Mirjam Zerjav, the director of  Kranjska Gora 
tourist office, said today in a telephone interview.  “We opened our resort to skiers last weekend,” Zerjav
said. “It will probably be a more positive season than we had
last year.”  A snowstorm hit  Montenegro , the smallest former Yugoslav
republic on the Adriatic coast, Montenegrin news agency Mina
reported.  The snow caused transport and power supply problems, with
central and southern parts of the country left without power and
authorities closing the airport in Podgorica where four flights
from  Serbia  were canceled or returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net 
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ; 