-- Hebei Group to Buy Rio’s Palabora Mining for $476 Million
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-12-12T09:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/hebei-iron-steel-led-group-to-buy-rio-s-palabora-mining-1-.html
Hebei Iron & Steel Group,  China ’s
biggest steelmaker, will lead a group to buy Rio Tinto Group’s
 Palabora Mining Co. (PAM)  in  South Africa  for about $476 million as
the Asian nation sucks up mining assets on the continent.  Rio will sell 57.7 percent for $373 million to the group,
which includes Industrial Development Corp. of South  Africa , the
London-based mine operator said yesterday in a statement.  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  will divest a 16.8 percent holding for 893 million
rand ($103 million), it said separately. The agreement amounts
to a purchase price of 110 rand a share, Hebei Iron said.  Palabora’s main asset is a  copper mine  in South Africa’s
Limpopo province that also produces vermiculite and magnetite.
China, the world’s biggest consumer of base metals, has added
mining interests in Africa as it seeks resources to feed its
expanding construction and automobile industries.  “Steelmakers are diversifying to mining as they are
struggling to make profits in the steel business,” said Sarah Wang, a Shanghai-based analyst at Masterlink Securities Corp.  Hebei Iron & Steel Co., the publicly traded unit of Hebei
Iron & Steel Group, rose 0.8 percent to 2.51  yuan  in Shenzhen
trading. Palabora fell 2 percent to 101 rand in Johannesburg
after climbing 9.6 percent yesterday to the highest since July.  “South Africa offers significant long-term investment
opportunities,” Hebei Steel Chairman Wang Yifang said yesterday
in a statement released in Johannesburg. Calls to the mobile
phone of Tian Zhiping, a Hebei vice president, went unanswered.  Slowing Demand  Hebei Iron & Steel Co., the holder of its parent’s steel
assets, swung to a 26.1 million yuan ($4.2 million) loss in the
third quarter as local overcapacity and weak demand cut prices.  South African and Chinese regulatory approval for the deal
is expected to take four to six months, Anglo American said.  Palabora Mining has magnetite resources used in making
steel, Mandla Mpangase, a spokesman at Industrial Development
Corp., said by e-mail yesterday. The deal secures raw material
for South African projects including the IMBS scrap-substitute
project being built in Phalaborwa, Mpangase said.  Hebei Iron & Steel Group (000709)  makes up 35 percent of the group
of acquirers. General Nice Development Ltd., a closely held
Chinese trader, has 25 percent, Industrial Corp. of South Africa
20 percent and China’s Tewoo Group another 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  