-- Lee Bequeaths Full Employment to South Korean Successor
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-12-12T06:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/lee-bequeaths-full-employment-to-south-korean-successor.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s legacy of full employment has failed to bolster his
party’s popularity or revive consumer confidence, prompting both
candidates in Dec. 19 elections to pledge more social spending.  The  jobless rate  was 3 percent in November, a government
report showed in Gwacheon today, unchanged from October at a low
reached just five times since mid-1999. A widening wealth gap on
Lee’s watch, which ends in February, has accompanied the jobs
strength and stoked concern that South Korea’s export success
hasn’t translated into middle-class financial security.  “The economy is relatively strong in terms of job growth,
but the underlying imbalances are plaguing the country,” said
Lee Jae Hyung, a fixed-income analyst at Tong Yang Securities
Inc. in  Seoul . “The next president will likely spend more to
boost economic growth and provide more welfare benefits.
Inflationary pressure may creep up.”  Both ruling-party candidate Park Geun Hye and opposition
nominee Moon Jae Inare campaigning to increase aid to lower-
income families. Extra government spending could fuel price
gains just when the central bank is facing a tighter inflation
target for next year of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent, compared
with the current 2 percent to 4 percent.  The seasonally unadjusted  jobless rate  was at 2.8 percent
in November, also unchanged from October, today’s report showed.  The Kospi Index stayed higher after North Korea launched a
long-range rocket in defiance of international sanctions, rising
0.6 percent as of 3:18 p.m. in Seoul.  Self-Employed  The strength of the labor market may play only a limited
role in boosting the confidence of those households grappling
with elevated debt, weakness in property prices, and the
challenges of self-employment or temporary work.  The ranks of the self-employed have swelled to 5.8 million
as of October, from 5.5 million in December 2011, according to
Statistics Korea.  Consumer confidence  was below 100 in November
for a fourth month, a level seen during 2009, when the nation
was recovering from the worst of the financial crisis.  “More people are starting businesses as baby boomers
retire and the trend will only accelerate as society rapidly
ages,” said Jean Lim, a Seoul-based economist at Korea
Institute of Finance.  A jobless rate of about 3 percent is full employment for
South Korea, a level that doesn’t fuel inflation, Lim said.  The nation’s richest 20 percent earned 7.86 times more than
the bottom 20 percent last year, the biggest margin since
Statistics Korea began publishing the data in 2006. That gap has
contributed to Lee’s popularity falling by more than half.  Social Spending  To address the inequality, front-runner Park has said her
government would spend 131.4 trillion won ($122 billion) on
childcare, education and medical services over five years. Moon
says his proposals that include after-school programs for
children and better care for the elderly would cost 192.5
trillion won.  Park’s approval rating was at 50.6 percent while support
for Moon stood at 43.8 percent, according to a poll published
this week by Realmeter and JTBC, a cable television affiliate of
the JoongAng Ilbo newspaper. The Dec. 8-9 survey of 2,000 people
had a 2.2 percentage-point margin of error.  Challenges for Asia’s fourth-largest economy include the
drag on exports from gains in the won, which touched a 15-month
high today. The currency strengthened 0.2 percent to 1,074.93
per dollar in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank will leave borrowing costs unchanged at
2.75 percent tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg News  survey  of
economists.  Japan, IMF  Elsewhere in Asia today,  Japan ’s machinery orders rose for
the first time in three months, a sign that companies may expect
the world’s third largest economy to return to growth in 2013.
In  India , industrial production recovered to grow at the fastest
pace in more than a year in October after the government
overhauled policies to boost expansion, and consumer prices
increased to a three-month high in November.  The International Monetary Fund said in a report today that
Hong Kong is at risk of an abrupt decline in house prices after
they doubled to a record in the past four years. In  Australia , a
private survey showed that  consumer confidence  slumped by the
most in nine months on concern about the economic outlook and
unemployment.  In the U.S., the Federal Open Market Committee concludes a
two-day meeting to consider whether to increase record economic
stimulus. The U.S. monthly budget deficit probably widened in
November from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey.  In  Europe , the U.K. reports jobless claims for November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  