-- Egypt, IMF Agree to Delay Loan Decision, Finance Minister Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-12-11T14:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/egypt-imf-agree-to-delay-loan-decision-finance-minister-says.html
Egypt  and the  International Monetary
Fund  agreed to postpone a decision on a $4.8 billion loan that
had been scheduled for discussion by the fund’s board next week,
Egyptian Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed said.  “The IMF board was supposed to review Egypt’s request Dec.
19 and it has been agreed with the fund that this be delayed to
the following session, most likely mid-January,” el-Saieed said
by phone from Cairo. “We have an Egyptian economic and social
program, and it seems that some have misunderstood the measures,
so the president decided to give more time for social dialogue
to stress that the measures won’t harm people with limited
income.”  Egyptian officials have said the IMF loan is necessary to
boost investors’ confidence, secure more funds and help an
economy struggling since last year’s uprising. President Mohamed
Mursi this week suspended tax increases on some goods to give
more time for societal dialogue, and one of his aides said the
proposals had sparked public anger.  “The delay is alarming given Egypt’s current economic woes
and means that political uncertainty could lead to further
delays,”  Mona Mansour , chief economist at Cairo-based
investment bank CI Capital Holdings, said by phone. “This will
add further pressure on reserves and further depreciation of the
Egyptian pound is expected.”  The pound, subject to a managed float, retreated 0.1
percent to 6.1529 per dollar at the close in Cairo, bringing its
loss since Nov. 22 to 1 percent. That matches its loss for the
year to that date.  El-Saieed said the delay won’t affect the loan decision. An
IMF spokeswoman wasn’t immediately available for comment.  Egypt reached a preliminary agreement last month with an
IMF team on the loan. That came amid opposition by activists
saying the deal lacked transparency and may compromise the
country’s economic independence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  