-- Egypt Turmoil Puts IMF Cash at Risk as Mursi Halts Tax Rises
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-12-12T14:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/egypt-turmoil-puts-imf-cash-at-risk-as-mursi-halts-tax-rises.html
Mohamed Mursi’s focus on defusing a
resurgent protest movement in  Egypt  is starting to derail his
plans for rescuing the economy with a $4.8 billion International
Monetary Fund loan.  Mursi’s decision to hold a Dec. 15 referendum on a new
constitution has polarized the country and sparked rival
demonstrations, most recently last night, that have sometimes
turned violent. Egypt’s government said yesterday it asked the
IMF to delay next week’s meeting to approve the loan, probably
until January. As protests escalated, Mursi suspended a raft of
tax increases aimed at meeting IMF concerns about the region’s
biggest budget deficit.  With  foreign reserves  near an eight-year low after last
year’s uprising against  Hosni Mubarak , and an economy that’s
barely outpacing  population growth , Egypt is pinning hopes on
IMF support to help kick-start investment and output. Getting
the money may require the kind of unpopular revenue-raising
measures that will be hard to enact for a leader facing a
growing public backlash.  “The fact that they rolled out reforms and then went back
on them shows that they’re incapable of enforcing this,” said
 Mona Mansour , chief economist at Cairo-based investment bank CI
Capital Holdings. “It’s really bad timing, while people are as
agitated as they are right now.”  ‘Social Dialogue’  Egypt’s  benchmark stock index  has fallen 5 percent and
spreads over  U.S. debt  have widened 53 basis points, or 0.53 of
a percentage point, since Nov. 22, when Mursi issued a decree
placing his decisions above the law and shielding the panel
writing the new constitution from judicial challenges. The
Egyptian pound, subject to a managed float, has slid 1.1 percent
in the same period, compared with a 1 percent loss in the year
to that date.  Egypt decided to delay the IMF loan approval “to give more
time for social dialogue” and to emphasize that IMF-backed
proposals won’t hurt the poorest Egyptians, Finance Minister
Momtaz el-Saieed said in a phone interview yesterday.  If there are “significant delays” in the political
transition and approval of an IMF program, “economic and
financial pressures are likely to mount and Egypt’s ratings
could come under renewed pressure,”  Fitch Ratings  said today.
It ranks Egypt four levels below investment grade.  The president halted tax increases on items including
cigarettes within hours of their announcement, the official
Middle East  News Agency  said. He was briefed in the early hours
of Dec. 10 on the “anger and surprise” the proposals had
generated, presidential spokesman Yasser Ali said.  Reduced Ability  The government aims to cut the budget deficit to 8.5
percent of gross domestic product by 2014, from 11 percent last
fiscal year.  The target, which has the IMF’s approval, is achievable
“in theory,” but difficult in the current political
environment, said Said Hirsh, head of economics at Maplecroft, a
risk-advisory company based in Bath, U.K.  “The problem is when such reforms are introduced alongside
major political changes that have been devised without the views
of the wider political spectrum,” he said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The government’s recent actions “have
definitely reduced its ability to implement fiscal reforms.”  Opposition groups say the constitutional referendum should
be halted because the text was drafted by an Islamist-dominated
panel that ignored other views. Hamdeen Sabahi, one of the
opposition movement’s leaders, also attacked Mursi’s economic
plans, saying on a television program that IMF-backed policies
will “address the  budget deficit  at the expense of the poor”
who will “get nothing” from the program.  People Suffering  “We’re against price increases,” said Kariman Saeed, a
40-year-old housewife, over the din of anti-Mursi chants outside
the presidential palace in Cairo. “The people are suffering and
can barely eke out an existence as it is.”  The government says its proposals are essential to stop the
budget deficit from ballooning, and has emphasized the
importance of IMF loans as a benchmark that will lure investors
to the country. Egypt suffered capital flight and a slump in
tourism after the uprising against Mubarak early last year and
the political uncertainty that followed.  Even if an IMF deal does go through, Mursi’s U-turn on
taxes suggests it will be hard for his government to stay on the
program, said Raza Agha, chief regional economist for VTB
Capital Plc in  London . IMF loans typically set conditions for
the disbursement of each tranche of cash. Egyptian officials
have said their economic program is “homegrown.”  Program Threatened  Achieving “targets and reform measures in the current
political environment will be extremely difficult,” Agha said
by e-mail. “This could well threaten the program itself.”  Egypt may also be forced to devalue the pound, according to
some economists. Foreign-exchange reserves are down to $15
billion, from $36 billion at the end of 2010.  “There is a growing risk of a disorderly adjustment” to
the currency in the absence of IMF loans,  Neil Shearing , chief
emerging-market economist at  Capital Economics  in London, said
in an e-mailed report yesterday.  “Without an improvement in the political environment, this
stability may not last for long,” Shearing said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  