-- Egypt Importing Gas for First Time as Exports Disappear
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-12-11T18:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/egypt-importing-gas-for-first-time-as-exports-disappear.html
Egypt, a natural-gas exporter to
markets from China to  Chile , is set to become an importer for
the first time just as the new government needs energy shipments
to revive an economy weakened by civil unrest.  Gas producers including  BG Group Plc (BG/)  have curbed local
production even as demand from electricity plants jumped. That’s
prompted the government that took power after  Hosni Mubarak  was
ousted to plan a liquefied natural gas import terminal as soon
as May.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the world’s biggest provider of
LNG, has begun studying how to supply Egypt.  “We are in discussions with many countries in  emerging
markets  about LNG imports at the moment and Egypt is on the
list,” Shell Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry said last
month. “Egypt’s economy clearly is growing in terms of its
demand for energy, and gas is the first fuel.”  A switch to imports would weigh on Egypt’s current account
deficit, potentially boosting calls to devalue the currency and
raising pressure on the government to cut fuel subsidies at a
time when use of gas-fired power across the  Middle East  is
soaring. As popular unrest continues to challenge the rule of
President Mohamed Mursi, the nation needs energy-export revenue
to buttress flagging tourism and foreign-currency inflows.  Exports of natural gas rose 2.9 percent to $1.96 billion in
the 2011-2012 fiscal year ended in June -- making them the
biggest good shipped abroad after crude and refined oil,
according to Egyptian  central bank  data.  Import Switch  Oil Minister Osama Kamal said Nov. 26 that industry will be
allowed to import gas for the first time in the second half of
2013. Factories will be permitted to import a maximum of 1
billion cubic feet a day, Kamal said in an interview in Cairo.  In the developing world, Egypt is following several gas-
exporting countries including Malaysia and Indonesia that have
become importers as domestic production fails to keep pace with
demand growth. The North African nation exported about  a quarter 
of its gas output in recent years.  Gas consumption in Egypt, which also has discussed
importing LNG from Qatar, climbed 10 percent last year,
according to  BP Plc (BP/)  data. That increase has coincided with a
decline in production by BG, which said in October its  West
Delta Deep Marine  project wasn’t meeting expectations, as well
as lower output from  Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  and  Apache Corp .  Egypt would need to pay about $10 per million British
thermal units to import, based on Poten & Partners prices. That
would be about $10 million a day or $3.65 billion a year to
import 1 billion cubic feet a day.  LNG Terminal  Egypt is  seeking bids  for an LNG import terminal that would
operate as early as May, according to Egyptian Natural Gas
Holding Co., or EGAS. Private-equity firm  Citadel Capital SAE (CCAP) 
and Qatar’s QInvest LLC are participating in the tender,
according to a Nov. 22  statement .  Investors from Qatar, the world’s biggest LNG producer, are
already present in Egypt’s  energy industry , with  Qatar Petroleum 
International Ltd. part-funding a $3.7 billion refinery near
Cairo this year.  “We are willing to supply LNG to anybody provided the
price is right,” said Nasser Al-Jaidah, chief executive officer
of Doha-based Qatar Petroleum. “Egypt has asked for LNG, but
they don’t have the receiving terminal” yet.  To retain gas for local use, Egypt reduced LNG output at
 Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS) ’s Damietta plant by 41 percent in the first
half of the year from a year earlier. The larger  Egyptian LNG 
plant, a venture between BG,  Egyptian General Petroleum Corp. ,
EGAS, Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, had been running
below capacity since early 2011.  Growth Plan  Egypt, the Arab world’s most populous nation, is seeking to
restore stability and rebuild the economy following the revolt
that ousted former President Mubarak. Growth is targeted at 3.5 
percent in fiscal 2012-2013, up from 2.2 percent a year earlier,
according to Prime Minister Hisham Qandil. Previous governments
have said the economy needs to grow at least 7 percent to
provide enough jobs.  While the administration that came to power in August has
pledged to overhaul the energy industry and curb fuel subsidies,
it won’t meet its goal of lowering the grants by 39 percent in
the year through June, Oil Minister Kamal said in November.  “A reliable supply of natural gas to both industry and the
power-generation sector is a cornerstone of Egypt’s energy
security,” Ghada Hammouda, a spokeswoman for Citadel Capital,
said in an e-mail. “A long-term solution absolutely must
include reform of a failed and economically ruinous energy
subsidy program.”  Export Cuts  The subsidy system accounts for more than 20 percent of
annual state spending, according to Hammouda, who said oil and
gas industry operations aren’t sufficient to support economic
expansion. Gas production in Egypt fell 0.1 percent last year to
63.1 billion cubic meters, she said.  The shortage of gas for export has prompted BG, based in
Reading,  England , to reduce LNG deliveries to other countries.
BG told Chile in November it will cut shipments to the nation’s
biggest power generator and to state-owned refiner Empresa
Nacional del Petroleo next year.  “While this is not formal force majeure, it raises a
question as to how much leeway remains between present output
versus contractual obligations from Egyptian LNG,” said  Peter
Hutton , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London . “Egypt has
been BG’s largest producing country since 2009.”  New Wells  BG has said gas production in Egypt will fall short of its
forecast by about 180 million cubic feet a day next year. In an
effort to stem the decline, the company plans to bring forward
two production phases at the West Delta Deep Marine block and
drill new exploration wells in the country.  Apache, the third-largest gas producer in Egypt, said Nov.
1 that output had dropped because of field works. Dana Gas, the
sixth-biggest, last month  reported  a 9 percent decline in
extraction in the first nine months of the year.  “Due to ongoing uncertainty around the political situation
in Egypt, the board took a prudent decision to implement a more
conservative drilling program, inevitably leading to a decline
in production,” Dana Gas said in a statement.  Egypt continues to suffer from political unrest, with pro-
and anti-government demonstrators staging mass rallies in Cairo
and other cities. Recent protests, sparked by a Nov. 22 decree
granting Mursi sweeping powers, have boosted local-currency
borrowing costs for the state, which may have to devalue the
pound to restore competitiveness, said  William Jackson , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. The subsequent
reversal of the decree has failed to defuse tensions.  Weakening Currency  The Egyptian pound, subject to a managed float, has
weakened about 1 percent since Nov. 22 to 6.1516 to a dollar as
of 7:46 p.m. in Cairo, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level in eight years and brings its
decline since the start of the January 2011 uprising to 5.4
percent, coinciding with a 58 percent plunge in foreign reserves
over the period.  Egypt is pumping about 6 billion cubic feet of gas a day,
most of which is supplied domestically, according to Mostafa El
Bahr, vice chairman for agreements and exploration at EGAS.  The shortfall of available gas to produce LNG for export
creates uncertainty in the market, with traders relying less on
“flexible supplies” from the country, said  Frank Harris , head
of global LNG at consultants Wood Mackenzie.  “When people signed those LNG deals with Egypt back in the
beginning of the last decade, there was probably a feeling that
it was going to be a good, reliable supplier with plenty of
gas,” he said. “Now they may end up being a hybrid importer
and exporter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  