-- Egyptians Stage Overnight Rallies as Referendum Nears
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m ,   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-12-12T16:24:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/egyptians-stage-overnight-rallies-as-referendum-nears.html
Egyptian expatriates began voting in
a referendum on a new constitution, as the main opposition to
President Mohamed Mursi urged voters to reject the charter.  Egyptian embassies were opened for voters who can cast
ballots in person or by mail until Dec. 15, when the first phase
of the domestic vote is due to be held, with a second one due on
Dec. 22, the official Middle East News Agency said.  While rallies late yesterday by supporters and opponents of
the constitution were peaceful, clashes between the rival camps
last week left at least ten people dead. The unrest threatens to
derail  Egypt ’s efforts to establish a stable democracy and
rebuild the economy after last year’s uprising against  Hosni Mubarak . The government yesterday postponed a loan accord with
the International Monetary Fund.  “Whatever it takes, Mursi and the Brotherhood are going to
find a way to hold the referendum,” said  Shadi Hamid , director
of research at the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar. “The Muslim
Brotherhood’s strategy now is to dig in until referendum day,
and they feel that they will be vindicated by the results.”  The decision to hold the referendum on successive Saturdays
may lead some opposition groups to boycott it.  Hamdeen Sabahi, who finished third in the presidential
vote, said the National Salvation Front, the biggest opposition
umbrella group, would urge supporters to take part and cast
“no” ballots only if the vote was held on a single day and
security and judicial supervision were adequate. The Front said
in an e-mailed statement that “we will withdraw our
participation and will urge the people to do the same” if those
guarantees aren’t provided.  ‘Real Chance’  “People have a real chance to bring down the constitution
through the ballot box,” Sabahi told reporters in Cairo, though
he said the Front’s preferred solution was to postpone the
referendum for two months.  The vote will be held on different days in different parts
of the country to make supervision easier, state-run Ahram Gate
reported earlier. The Judges Club said most of its members won’t
supervise the referendum, the head of the association, Ahmed El-
Zind, told reporters in Cairo yesterday. The draft charter falls
short on “human rights and freedoms,” he said.  The opposition argues that the constitution was drafted by
a panel dominated by Islamists that ignored other views and
produced a text that fails to safeguard rights and freedoms. The
head of that panel, Hossam el-Gheriani, today urged Egyptians to
turn out and vote.  Democracy Working  “It’s time for every citizen to express their view,” he
said on state television. “Accept the result of the referendum,
whatever it may be, and let democracy work.”  Mursi has enlisted the army to help police ensure security,
after weeks of political tensions and protests sparked by the
president’s Nov. 22 decree expanding his powers and his refusal
to alter the referendum timetable.  The worst violence took place last week outside the
presidential palace. El-Husseiny Abu Deif, a reporter for local
newspaper al-Fagr, died today from injuries sustained after he
was shot in the head while covering the clashes, the al-Shorouk
news website reported today.  Reports Without Borders said on Dec. 6 that Mursi’s
supporters had fired on journalists. Human Rights Watch today
called on Egypt’s prosecutors to investigate reports that Muslim
Brotherhood members illegally detained and abused protesters.  The Brotherhood says its rallies have been peaceful and has
blamed the violence on “thugs” and supporters of the Mubarak
regime.  IMF Delay  Egypt’s benchmark stock index rallied today after last
night’s peaceful rallies, adding 2.8 percent. It’s still down
more than 5 percent since Mursi’s Nov. 22 decree. The pound,
subject to a managed float, extended losses today, dropping 0.1
percent to 6.159 per dollar.  Finance Minister Momtaz El-Saieed said yesterday that Egypt
asked the  International Monetary Fund  to postpone a decision on
its application for a $4.8 billion loan, due next week, until at
least January. The government this week suspended an increase in
sales taxes that was part of its IMF-backed program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  