-- Emerging Stocks Jump to 8-Month High on German Confidence
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-12-11T22:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/emerging-stocks-advance-to-8-month-high-on-u-s-budget-talks.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, pushing
the benchmark index to an eight-month high, as improved German
investor confidence boosted markets from  Poland  to the Czech
Republic that benefit from growth in  Europe ’s biggest economy.  Stalexport Autostrady SA (STX)  jumped the most in three years to
lead gains in Warsaw, while  Central European Media Ltd. (CETV)  climbed
the most in three months in Prague. Seoul-based Daewoo
Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. Ltd. led advances in
emerging-market industrial stocks as HMC Investment Securities
said shipbuilders have an “attractive” valuation.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.5 percent to
1,034.55 in New York, the highest level since April 6. German
investor confidence jumped more than economists anticipated in
December, according to the ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim, overshadowing data out of  China  showing
new yuan loans trailed forecasts last month. U.S. lawmakers
returned to  Washington  today as President  Barack Obama  and House
of Representatives Speaker John Boehner attempt to make a deal
on fiscal policy.  “The mood is more upbeat today, despite rather unexciting
loan growth in China,” Martial Godet, head of strategy at BNP
Paribas CIB in  London , said by e-mail. “The ZEW index may
explain most of the positive trend today.”  Money Supply  Benchmark gauges in Poland,  Hungary  and the Czech Republic
advanced at least 0.5 percent. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.1
percent, while  Brazil ’s Bovespa index increased 0.6 percent. The
 Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose 1.3 percent, bringing this
year’s gain for the gauge to 33.4 percent.  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index gained for the sixth
day, adding 0.6 percent and taking the index to the highest
close since Nov. 7., after official data showed the nation’s
industrial output growth unexpectedly quickened in October.  The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  slid from a one-month high, losing
0.4 percent, and extending this year’s loss to 5.7 percent.
Equity trading volumes for the Shanghai Composite Index were 46
percent above the 30-day average.  China’s M2, the broadest measure of money supply, rose 13.9
percent from a year earlier, the People’s Bank of China said
today after the market close, below the median estimate of 14.1
percent.  The BSE India Sensitive Index slipped 0.1 percent, after
earlier climbing as much as 1 percent amid optimism the
government will take more policy steps to revive economic
growth. The gauge has surged 25 percent this year.  Currencies  Shares in the United Arab Emirates tumbled, with Abu
Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  sinking 2.6 percent and Dubai’s DFM
General Index slumping 1.5 percent, led by telecommunications
companies as the country set new royalty rates for
infrastructure use.  The Hungarian forint and the Polish zloty strengthened 0.5
percent against the euro and  Turkey ’s lira added 0.3 percent
versus the dollar. The ZEW Center for European Economic Research
in Mannheim said its index of investor and analyst expectations,
which aims to predict economic developments six months in
advance, climbed to 6.9 from minus 15.7 in November. The mean
estimate of 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for minus
11.5.  South Korea’s won climbed for a third day, appreciating 0.2
percent to a 15-month high versus the dollar, as bets the
Federal Reserve may add to monetary stimulus and U.S. lawmakers
will make progress in budget talks increased demand for riskier
assets.  Fiscal Cliff  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage points, to 274 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  U.S. lawmakers need to agree on a budget to prevent more
than $600 billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts
from coming into effect next year. Fed policy makers began a
two-day meeting today that will be followed by updated
projections on economic growth, unemployment, inflation and
interest rates tomorrow.  The U.S. fiscal cliff is “major risk” for global growth
in the first half of 2013, Bank of America strategists including
Alberto Ades said in a research report emailed today. Global
emerging markets’ gross domestic product will grow 5.2 percent
next year, up from 4.9 percent in 2012, Bank of America said.
South Korea,  Mexico  and Turkey show “increasing potential
growth,” while Asia should produce strong 2013 returns in local
debt and foreign exchange, the report said.  The 21 nations in MSCI’s developing-nations gauge send
about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S. on average, data
compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  Consumer Staples  Gauges of consumer utility, consumer staples and materials
companies in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)   advanced  at least
0.7 percent, the most among 10 industry groups. The information
technology group was the sole decliner.  The emerging-markets index has risen 13 percent this year,
beating the 12 percent gain by the MSCI World Index of developed
countries. The developing-nations measure trades at 11.9 times
estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
13.7, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ten-day volatility for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell
to 6.7, the lowest since March. The gauge may rise about 9
percent more on improving data from developing economies,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts Robin Brooks and Julian Richers wrote in a client note dated yesterday.  Emerging markets will continue to lag behind developed
nations in 2013, Jean-Paul Smith, a strategist at Deutsche Bank
AG in London, wrote in a e-mailed report dated yesterday.  Emerging Underperforms  “We expect global emerging markets to underperform
developed markets in 2013 with a much higher risk of negative
absolute returns than was the case in 2012,” Smith wrote. “We
anticipate that the defining event for emerging markets in 2013
will be that the structural shortcomings of the Chinese economy,
which are increasingly evident at a micro level, will become too
obvious for foreign investors to ignore.”  Stalexport, an operator of highways, jumped 8.9 percent,
the most since Dec. 2009, to lead gains on the  Warsaw Stock
Exchange. (WIG)  Commerical television broadcaster Central European
Media rallied 6.8 percent in Prague.  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the biggest Czech
utility, snapped a four-day slump after Bank of America Corp.
recommended buying the stock. Shares rose 2.1 percent in Prague.  Daewoo Shipbuilding jumped 5.9 percent in  Seoul  as HMC
Investment Securities said in a report today that concerns over
2013 earnings prospects have eased given order flows.  Dividend Disappointment  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s largest producer of the
metal, lost 2 percent in Moscow, its biggest drop in four weeks,
on speculation the Russian mining company’s dividend will be
less than earlier anticipated. The shareholders agreed that
Norilsk may distribute at least $9 billion in dividends over
three years, three people familiar with the matter, who asked
not to be identified because the plan isn’t public, said today.
That’s down from an initial projection of more than $10 billion
that the three people gave last week.  Dana Gas PJSC (DANA) , the United Arab Emirates fuel producer,
rallied 7.5 percent in Abu Dhabi. EFG-Hermes Holding SAE raised
its share price estimate by 55 percent after the company said it
will pay bondholders $70 million in cash and split the remaining
Shariah-compliant debt into $425 million tranches of convertible
bonds and ordinary sukuk.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA and  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3) 
fell in Sao Paulo after billionaire  Eike Batista  denied a report
saying he plans to sell stakes to the national development bank.
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA gained 2.1 percent after
commodities increased.  China Loans  STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670)  jumped 15 percent in Seoul, the most
since Dec. 2008. The shipping company’s parent may announce the
sale of a 51 percent stake in  STX OSV Holdings Ltd. (SOH) , a maker of
offshore vessels, MoneyToday said, citing unidentified officials
familiar with the deal. The group declined to comment on the
MoneyToday report when contacted by Bloomberg News today.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , China’s second-biggest listed
developer, declined 2.1 percent, the sharpest loss since Nov.
28. China’s banks extended 522.9 billion  yuan  ($84 billion) of
local-currency loans last month, the central bank reported
today. That’s less than the 550 billion yuan median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists and the 562.2 billion yuan
of loan in November last year.  Wintek Corp. (2384) , a maker of liquid crystal displays, slumped 6
percent in Taipei, the biggest decline in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index, after November sales dropped 25 percent from a
year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  