-- Met Opera to Sell $100 Million in Bonds as Revenue Drops
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-12-11T14:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/met-opera-to-sell-100-million-in-bonds-as-revenue-drops.html
The  Metropolitan Opera  faces growing
operating losses as it prepares to sell bonds for the first time
since its founding in 1883.  Losses from operations swelled 7 percent last season to
$135 million, according to bond documents. It was the third
consecutive operating-loss increase.  After contributions, bequests and other income from donors,
the Met said it broke even in 2011-12. The $100 million in
taxable bonds will be used to repay $63.2 million in loans from
Bank of America Corp.  Most of the remainder will pay for unspecified “operating
capital,” said Eric Wild, a managing director in the public-
finance group at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which is managing the bond
sale.  The offering comes as operating expenses increased 15
percent during the past three years and operating revenue rose
11 percent, according to the offering memorandum.  Wild said the Met is taking advantage of low  interest
rates . Asked if it’s under pressure, he said investors have to
draw their own conclusions.  “The offering documents provide a description of the
financial condition of the Met,” he wrote in an e-mail.
“Prospective investors should review it completely and base
their decisions on such a review.”  Japan Tour  Met operating revenue fell last season to $170.2 million
from $184 million, an 8 percent drop. It was the company’s first
revenue decline in at least four years.  Sales for the season ending July 2011 were skewed upwards by
a Met tour of  Japan , while box-office receipts at its  Lincoln
Center  for the Performing Arts home declined slightly during the
latest fiscal year.  Box office for the first four months of 2012-13 has lagged
behind the Met’s projections and that of last season. The Met
blamed  Hurricane Sandy  and the July 2011 death of mega-patron
Agnes Varis, a generic-drug mogul who underwrote rush seats for
which people pay $20 on weekdays and $25 on weekends. A Met
spokeswoman, Lee Abrahamian, said that although the program is
ongoing, funding was reduced.  Market Fluctuations  As of July 31, 2012, the Met had $280.2 million in pension
obligations, up from $220.4 million a year earlier. Its unfunded
obligations almost doubled to $128.4 million from $73.1 million.  “The Met is current with its plan funding obligations,”
according to the offering memo. But “the low interest rate
environment, as well as market fluctuations” have had “a
significant impact on the unfunded liability.”  Moody’s Investors Service rates the sale A3, its seventh-
highest grade. A Moody’s report cited two sides of the same coin
as strengths and challenges: The Met has “uncommonly high
amount of donor support,” with average gift revenue of $145
million for the past three years.  However, it has “high reliance on gift revenue,”
“requiring careful stewardship and cultivation of donors,” the
report noted.  Wild said he expects the bonds to be priced and sold at the
end of the week. As they aren’t tax-exempt, unlike municipal
bonds, he said they’ll probably appeal primarily to
institutional investors, such as pension funds and insurance
companies.  Muse highlights include Laurie Muchnick on  books , Patrick
Cole on  philanthropy .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 