-- EU Patent System Gets Green Light, May Make First Award in 2014
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-12-11T12:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/eu-patent-system-gets-green-light-may-make-first-award-in-2014.html
The European Union’s first region-
wide patent system could be in place by early 2014 after EU
lawmakers broke a decades-long deadlock on plans to make the
protection of inventions in  Europe  cheaper and easier.  The European Parliament in Strasbourg,  France , today voted
in favor of three proposals that will create a patent valid
across 25 of the EU’s 27 nations, the language system to go with
it and a specialized patent court system.  Costs for getting the protection could be cut by more than
30,000 euros ($39,000) under the new system, the European
Commission, the EU’s executive agency said. While a European
patent valid across the EU’s 27 nations costs about 36,000
euros, this could be cut to about 5,000 euros under the so-
called unitary patent. A unified patent court with specialized
judges would also be established under the plans.  “Today’s vote is good news” for the “EU economy and
especially for European small and medium enterprises,” said
Bernhard Rapkay, one of the EU lawmakers sponsoring the
legislation.  Attempts to reach an agreement on an EU patent in the past
have  faltered  over the language regime to be used. The EU has 23
official languages and numerous compromise proposals in the past
have failed to satisfy political demands or risked increasing
translation costs for companies. The commission proposed a
compromise deal after governments failed to reach consensus on
which languages should be legally binding. EU leaders in June
agreed on the seat of the new patent court, clearing the last
hurdle to an agreement.  Unitary Patent  The closest thing to an EU-wide patent at the moment is for
companies to file an application with the Munich-based European
Patent Office, which isn’t part of the EU and has 38 member
countries. Once granted, the patent breaks up into a bundle of
national patents which companies must defend in each individual
country.  Applications for the unitary patent would still be made
through the EPO and once granted would be valid across the 25 EU
participating nations.  Spain and  Italy  challenged the EU’s decision in March 2011
to move forward with a common patent system under a mechanism
called enhanced cooperation whereby member states can work
together as long as at least nine agree. The two countries had
objected to the plan largely over language concerns.  An advocate general at the EU Court of Justice, the bloc’s
highest court, said in a  non-binding opinion  today that the
court should reject Spain’s and Italy’s challenges.  The commission said the first unitary patent could be
granted as soon as April 2014, if at least 13 EU nations have
ratified the draft agreement on the new Unified Patent Court by
November 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  