-- European Stocks Rise on Federal Reserve Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-12-11T17:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/european-stock-futures-rise-before-federal-reserve-meets.html
European stocks advanced to an 18-
month high amid speculation the U.S.  Federal Reserve  will expand
stimulus measures and as German investor confidence in November
beat forecasts.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, jumped 5.6
percent after saying the sale of its Steel Americas unit is on
track.  Suez Environnement (SEV)  Co. climbed the most in more than
three months after GDF Suez Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet said his company will retain its stake in  Europe ’s
second-largest water utility.  Diageo (DGE)  Plc slid 1.6 percent after
it ended talks to acquire the Jose Cuervo tequila brand.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.3 percent to 280.49 at
the close of trade, its seventh day of gains and longest winning
streak in 17 months. The gauge advanced to its highest since May
2011 and has increased 15 percent this year as the  European
Central Bank  announced an unlimited bond-buyback program and
confidence grew that U.S. lawmakers will avoid fiscal deadlock.  “The main focus is the Fed meeting,” Markus Huber, head
of German sales trading at ETX Capital in  London , said in a
telephone interview. “A majority expect the Fed to increase its
bond-purchase program, in terms of the amount that they buy each
month. The Fed is concerned that with the fiscal cliff, the
economy could be negatively impacted so it may consider more
stimulus.”  Fed Meeting  The Federal Reserve begins a two-day meeting today after
which it will announce its interest-rate decision and updated
economic projections. The Fed may supplement $40 billion a month
of mortgage-bond purchases with Treasury purchases, according to
a Bloomberg survey of economists.  U.S. lawmakers need to agree on a budget to prevent more
than $600 billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts
from coming into effect next year.  Germany’s ZEW Center for European Economic Research said
its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims to
predict economic developments six months in advance, rose to 6.9
in December from minus 15.7 in November. Economists forecast a
gain to minus 11.5, according to the median of 38 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey .  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western
European markets.  France ’s CAC gained 0.9 percent, the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 climbed 0.1 percent, while Germany’s DAX advanced 0.8
percent.  ThyssenKrupp added 5.6 percent to 17.18 euros. Chief
Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger  said the company sees a
solution for its Steel Americas units by the end of next year.  Germany’s biggest steelmaker said its net loss widened to
4.7 billion euros ($6.1 billion) in the year ended Sept. 30 from
1.29 billion euros a year earlier. It also canceled its annual
dividend.  Suez Environnement  Suez Environnement rose 8.3 percent to 9.01 euros, its
biggest gain since Aug. 26, after Mestrallet said his company
won’t reduce its 34 percent stake even though an investor pact
that lapses in July ensuring control of the water utility won’t
be renewed.  The stock was raised to outperform, the equivalent of buy,
from neutral at Exane BNP Paribas.  Whitbread Plc (WTB) , the owner of Premier Inn budget hotels and
Costa Coffee shops, added 2.5 percent to 2,488 pence, its
highest price in more than 20 years, after it said revenue
growth accelerated. Sales at Costa outlets open at least a year
rose 7.1 percent in the 13 weeks ended Nov. 29.  Diageo Talks  Diageo, the world’s biggest distiller, dropped 1.6 percent
to 1,855.5 pence after it said it has ended talks about the
future of the Cuervo brand with JB y Cia. SA de C.V. and
Lanceros S.A. de C.V., and will now work to finish its 26-year-
old agreement to distribute the brand outside of  Mexico , which
expires at the end of June.  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  fell 4.8 percent to 22.34 euros after raising
1.25 billion euros from a share sale to maintain capital
reserves amid accelerated reimbursements of state aid.  KBC sold 58.8 million shares at 21.25 euros apiece,
according to a statement. That’s a 9.5 percent discount to the
previous closing price of 23.47 euros and will dilute per-share
earnings by more than 16 percent.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  tumbled 8.4 percent to 1,150 pence, its
lowest level in more than 15 months, after it agreed to buy
Norway’s Spring Energy AS for $372 million, and said it would
sell its North Sea holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  