-- European Day-Ahead Power Surges to 10-Month High on Cold Weather
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-12-11T14:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/european-day-ahead-power-surges-to-10-month-high-on-cold-weather.html
Power for next-day delivery in
Germany and  France  increased to the highest level in 10 months
as a lack of sun and wind depressed output from renewable
sources and a cold snap boosted demand.  German baseload electricity for tomorrow jumped 19 percent
to 72.07 euros ($93.58) a megawatt-hour, according to data from
Paris-based EPEX Spot SE on Bloomberg. That’s the highest level
since February. The comparable French contract added 10 percent
to 75.81 euros a megawatt-hour.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility, yesterday shut
its Gundremmingen-C reactor for an unplanned stoppage.  “It’s snowing, getting colder, very low wind, very low
solar,” Jens Teresniak, energy economic analysis team manager
at German utility Stadtwerke Leipzig GmbH, said by e-mail.
“Then we lost Gundremmingen C with 1,288 megawatts yesterday.”  Day-ahead electricity on the coupled markets of the Czech
Republic, Slovakia and Hungary surged 12 percent to 69.34 euros
a megawatt-hour in a daily auction, according to the countries’
market operators.  Temperatures in  Frankfurt  may fall to minus 6 degrees
Celsius (21 Fahrenheit) tomorrow amid cloudy skies, compared
with zero degrees today and a five-year average of 2 degrees,
according to CustomWeather Inc. data on Bloomberg. Below-average
temperatures in Prague and Budapest were forecast for tomorrow,
the data showed.  Output from wind turbines was forecast to remain below
5,000 megawatts for the whole day tomorrow, according to the
website of Meteologica SA, a Madrid-based weather bureau. Wind
generation was at 6,591 megawatts this morning, above the annual
average of 5,128 megawatts, according to data from European
Energy Exchange AG in Leipzig,  Germany .  German power for next year, a European benchmark, fell as
much as 0.4 percent to 45.75 euros a megawatt-hour, broker data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  -- Editors: John Buckley, Rob Verdonck  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  