-- European Stocks Advance Before Fed Policy Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-12-11T09:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/european-stocks-advance-before-federal-reserve-policy-meeting.html
European stocks advanced for a
seventh day before Federal Reserve policy makers meet and as
investors await progress on U.S. budget talks to avoid the
fiscal cliff. U.S. futures and Asian stocks were little changed.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s biggest steelmaker, rose 3.1
percent even after saying it won’t pay an annual dividend
following a second straight yearly loss.  Imagination
Technologies Group Plc (IMG) , the U.K. chip designer in which Apple
Inc. holds a minority stake, gained 2.8 percent after Deutsche
Bank AG upgraded the shares.  Diageo Plc. (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, slid 1.2 percent after it ended talks to acquire the
Cuervo brand.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 0.2 percent to 280.20 at
9:58 a.m. in London. The gauge has increased 15 percent this
year as the  European Central Bank  pledged to buy the bonds of
nations who seek aid and confidence grows that U.S. lawmakers
will avoid a looming fiscal deadlock. Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures rose 0.1 percent today, while the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index added less than 0.1 percent.  Federal Reserve policy makers begin a two-day meeting today
that will be followed by updated projections on economic growth,
unemployment, inflation and  interest rates  on Dec. 12. Fed
officials are considering whether to supplement $40 billion a
month of mortgage-bond purchases with Treasury purchases when
their Operation Twist program expires at the end of the month.  U.S. lawmakers need to agree on a budget to prevent more
than $600 billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts
from coming into effect next year.  In Italy, Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said that investors
shouldn’t expect the imminent demise of his government to lead
to a political vacuum that will fuel market turmoil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  