-- Teva Focuses on Central Nervous System, Respiratory Drugs
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-12-12T15:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/teva-focuses-on-central-nervous-system-respiratory-drugs.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
will focus drug-development efforts under new Chief Executive
Officer Jeremy Levin on respiratory and central nervous system
illnesses as the company seeks to replace medicines set to lose
patent protection in the next three years.  Teva will end five mid- and late-stage research programs,
the company said in a  briefing  yesterday for investors in New
York. The Petach Tikva, Israel-based company, which became the
world’s biggest generic-drug maker in the past decade through 25
acquisitions, will cut as much as $2 billion of costs in the
next five years, Levin said as he laid out his strategy for the
first time. The stock fell the most in two months in Tel Aviv.  “We are interested in building fundamental capabilities
because we know where we are going now,” Levin said in an
interview in New York after the briefing. “Teva must focus on
organic growth. In doing that, our focus has to be on
transactions that either extend our geography, extend
dramatically our pipeline or, in fact, secure a product or a
product line that increases one of our franchises.”  Levin’s strategy marks a shift for Teva from growth through
large acquisitions to an increased reliance on developing
branded drugs through research and licensing agreements. While
the company advances its pipeline, Levin, the former senior vice
president for strategy at  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  who joined
Teva in May, is trying to assuage concern about earnings power
by promising cost reductions and share buybacks.  ‘Unfocused Pipeline’  “We’ve grown through multiple large acquisitions, leading
to complexity,” Levin said at the presentation. “We’ve
developed over time an unfocused pipeline. This represents a
marvelous opportunity to build, enhance, create value.”  Teva, which in 2011 was the analysts’ highest-rated stock
among the world’s 20 biggest drugmakers after years of growth,
has lost investors’ confidence. The company’s American
depositary receipts have  plummeted  35 percent from their March
2010 peak, and the ADRs trade at 8 times estimated profit.
That’s among the lowest valuations for the 20 drugmakers, which
have an average price-earnings ratio of 13.8.  Teva’s ADRs fell 3.7 percent to $40.15 at 10:20 a.m. in New
York, adding to yesterday’s 2 percent drop. Before yesterday,
the ADRs had gained for seven straight days. In Tel Aviv, the
stock declined 3.9 percent to close at 156.70 shekels, the
biggest drop since Oct 4.  Skeptical Investors  Investors are skeptical Teva can sustain growth as its
best-selling drug, the multiple-sclerosis injection Copaxone,
faces competition from newer oral medicines and is set to lose
patent protection by 2015.  “We do not see a pipeline drug with enough innovation to
replace Copaxone,”  Jami Rubin , an analyst at Goldman, Sachs &
Co., wrote in a report yesterday after the presentation. “More
importantly, we would have liked to see a greater commitment to
rewarding investors with additional cash returns.” She has a
“neutral” rating on the stock.  Jason Gerberry, an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co., cut the
stock to neutral from buy, citing a “challenging revenue
outlook” and a lack of near-term catalysts. Ronny Gal of
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. reduced his price estimate to $50
from $55. Teva will go through a “long transition process” and
cost cuts won’t have much of an effect until 2014, he said.  Some investors were disappointed with the lack of update on
CT-011, an experimental cancer drug, said Douglas Tsao of
Barclays Plc.  Drug Potential  “We are doing the proper diligence to assess the potential
of the drug,” Michael Hayden, the company’s chief scientific
officer, said of CT-011 in an interview yesterday. “We haven’t
made a decision yet.”  Teva aims to shore up sales of Copaxone, a daily shot, by
developing a three-times-a-week version that would have patent
protection until 2030, Levin said. Teva also is studying an MS
treatment that combines Copaxone with an experimental drug,
Laquinimod. Among other central nervous system diseases that
Teva plans to target are pain and Huntington’s disease, Hayden
said at the briefing yesterday.  Teva announced yesterday that it had licensed a pain drug,
XEN402, from Xenon Pharmaceuticals Inc., paying $41 million up
front and as much as $335 million more if the medicine meets
development, regulatory and sales goals.  Slowing Generics  Besides central nervous system and respiratory drugs,
Teva’s research also will focus on “high-value” generic drugs
and new therapeutic entities, or existing medicines that are
delivered or formulated in a new way, Teva said.  Besides Copaxone’s looming patent expiration, another
branded drug, the chronic lymphocytic leukemia treatment
Treanda, faces loss of U.S. exclusivity in 2015. An attempt to
introduce a newer treatment for MS was slowed when Laquinimod
failed a late-stage trial in 2011 as a standalone medicine.  At the same time, the generic-drug business slowed down. As
competition intensified, Teva had to share exclusivity on copies
of blockbuster medicines losing patent protection. Newer
treatments became more complex, making them more difficult to
copy. Teva in May cut its 2012 earnings forecast, blaming slower
economic growth and increased competition in generics.  Since taking over as CEO from Shlomo Yanai, Levin has
promised to share more information with investors to regain
their confidence. On a Nov. 30 conference call in which Teva
said 2013 earnings would be below analyst estimates, he said the
company provided sales and profit forecasts for separate
business units in an effort to be more open.  Ending Development  Teva is ending development of StemEx, a technology that
expands umbilical stem cells, enabling them to be used in cord
blood transplants to leukemia and lymphoma patients, the company
said. Its relationship with its partner, Gamida Cell Ltd., is
under review, Teva said. Gamida’s shareholders include  Clal
Biotechnology Industries Ltd. (CBI)  and Teva.  The other mid- and late-stage programs Teva is cutting are
Obatoclax for lung cancer, placulumab for sciatica,
MultiGeneAngio for peripheral arterial disease and a lower-
volume shot of Teva’s Copaxone multiple-sclerosis drug intended
to reduce injection discomfort.  Teva also ended a partnership with another unit of Tel
Aviv-based Clal for the development of its PolyHeal and NexoBrid
wound-care products. Teva is looking for a partner to help
advance a Type 1 diabetes treatment it is developing with Clal’s
unit Andromeda Biotech Ltd., Hayden said in an interview.  Seeking Partner  “There are people way better than us that do this,”
Hayden said. “In this particular instance what we want to do is
find a potential partner that will validate this and really
bring their expertise. We haven’t withdrawn our investment but
we are looking for a partnership and that’s ongoing.”  Teva will continue to get rid of products that aren’t
central to its strategy, Levin said yesterday. The company has
$10 billion for acquisitions over the next five years, and will
stick to small- and mid-sized purchases and licensing deals.
“We’ll do that in a very disciplined fashion,” he said.  Teva will use 20 percent to 25 percent of cash flow from
operations to pay dividends, and said it’s “committed to ensure
shareholder return” via share buybacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  