-- Ex-Massachusetts Treasurer’s Campaign Manager Not Guilty
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-12-11T22:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/ex-massachusetts-treasurer-s-associate-found-not-guilty-1-.html
Scott Campbell , the former campaign
manager of ex-Massachusetts Treasurer Timothy Cahill, was found
not guilty of conspiracy and procurement fraud in a campaign
funds case.  The jury of seven women and five men are scheduled to
return to state court in  Boston  tomorrow to continue
deliberating in the case against Cahill, who is accused of
fraudulently using state lottery advertising funds to promote
his unsuccessful run for governor in 2010.  Deliberations began Dec. 4. The jury asked Suffolk Superior
Court Judge Christine Roach two questions today, which weren’t
made public. Roach instructed lawyers not to discuss the
questions with reporters and jurors were told not to watch or
read local news.  Cahill, 54, is charged with two counts of conspiracy and
one count each of procurement fraud and using his office for
unwarranted privileges for planning to use $1.5 million of
public money to benefit his candidacy.  “We’re very happy,” Campbell said outside the courtroom
after the verdict. “We’re very relieved.”  The two men sat at opposite ends of the defense table
during the trial and rarely interacted. Campbell became Cahill’s
campaign manager after his original manager, Adam Meldrum, left
the campaign.  “I’m happy for Scott,” Cahill said as he left court
today.  Cahill, as state treasurer, gave the go-ahead to use 75
percent of the lottery’s advertising budget for TV and radio ads
that promoted his independent campaign, Massachusetts Attorney
General  Martha Coakley  said in April.  Cahill lost the race to incumbent Democrat  Deval Patrick .  Alfred Grazioso, the former chief of staff of the lottery,
is awaiting trial on charges of obstructing justice during the
attorney general’s probe.  This was the first time criminal charges were brought under
state ethics laws that were made tougher in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@me.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  