-- Mexican Peso Swings Ease on Optimism Over Pena Nieto Growth Push
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-12-12T00:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/mexican-peso-swings-ease-on-optimism-over-pena-nieto-growth-push.html
Mexican peso volatility fell to a
17-month low amid optimism that President Enrique Pena Nieto
will succeed in pushing through legal changes that boost growth
in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy.  One-month historical volatility, which measures the
magnitude of the peso’s fluctuations over the period, sank to
7.69 percent at 4 p.m. in  Mexico  City, the lowest since July
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso
appreciated 0.6 percent today to 12.7334 per  U.S. dollar .  Investor optimism is growing that Pena Nieto will make good
on pledges to push through legislation to end state-owned
Petroleos Mexicanos’s energy monopoly and lift tax revenue. Pena
Nieto, who led the country’s most-populous state to an
investment-grade  credit rating  during his tenure as governor of
the State of Mexico, proposed a balanced budget for his first
year in office on Dec. 7.  He “is starting off on the right foot,” Roberto Galvan, a
currency trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City,
said in a phone interview.  Although Mexico has a law requiring balanced budgets, the
country hasn’t passed one since 2009. The zero-deficit plan
doesn’t include investment in the state-owned  oil company .  Galvan said that peso volatility has also been falling as
investors speculate that U.S. leaders are making progress toward
a budget deal that would avert a recession in the Latin American
country’s biggest-trading partner.  Lower volatility reduces the risk of losses for foreign
investors seeking dollar-based returns when they buy securities
denominated in local currencies.  Yields on peso-denominated bonds due in 2024 increased one
basis points to 5.47 percent today, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The price declined 0.11 centavo to 139.82 centavos
per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  