-- FAA Rejects Request From Cargo Pilots for Greater Rest
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-12-11T18:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/faa-rejects-request-from-cargo-pilots-for-greater-rest.html
U.S. aviation regulators won’t alter
a decision excluding pilots at  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  from rules to increase rest in an effort to reduce
fatigue-related accidents.  The Federal Aviation Administration said it would be more
costly than it had previously calculated for cargo carriers to
adopt requirements announced last year for passenger airlines.  “As a result, the FAA has determined that no revisions to
the final rule on either cargo or passenger operations is
warranted,” the agency said in a filing to appear tomorrow in
the U.S. Federal Register.  The FAA announced in May it had discovered errors in
calculations used to justify the rule, after the Independent
Pilots Association, which represents UPS’s flight crews, filed
suit to force the agency to impose the rules on cargo carriers.  The rule, which takes effect in 2014, will reduce the hours
passenger pilots can fly late at night or if they are making
numerous landings and takeoffs. Because the projected benefits
are based largely on averting potential loss of life, cargo
carriers had less to gain and were excluded, the FAA said in the
rule.  The union says in its lawsuit that since Congress ordered
the FAA to impose new pilot-rest standards, the agency shouldn’t
have calculated costs and benefits.  Union Disagrees  “We still reject the application of a cost-benefit
analysis,” Robert Travis, president of the IPA, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We do not believe that it was Congress’s
intent to address the important issue of pilot fatigue only if
the price is right.”  Estimated  net costs, after benefits, during the first 12
years of reducing pilot work hours on cargo airlines rose from
$306 million to $550 million in FAA’s revised calculations. The
FAA projected that cargo airlines would have had benefits of
between $20.4 million and $32.6 million.  The case is Independent Pilots Association v. Federal
Aviation Administration, 11-1483, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  