-- Faberge Purchase Puts Gemfields on Jewelry Retailers’ Radar
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-12-11T07:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/faberge-purchase-puts-gemfields-on-jewelry-retailers-radar.html
Gemfields Plc (GEM) , the biggest emerald
producer, has received interest from jewelery retailers wanting
to buy an equity stake since it announced the purchase of
Faberge Ltd. last month.  “I’m talking industry champions, national champions and
significant global institutions who suddenly realize this is
fantastic,” Ian Harebottle, CEO of the London-based mining
company, said in a Dec. 7 interview in Lusaka, Zambia’s capital.  Gemfields, which mines emeralds in the southern African
nation, plans to double its production of the green gems to 4
million carats over the next five years, he said. The company
may produce as many carats of ruby over the same period,
Harebottle said.  Gemfields wants to use Faberge to promote colored gems and
increase demand for the stones it mines, growing their market
share in the jewelry industry. Shareholders will vote on the
deal Jan. 7 at a meeting in London, Gemfields said in a
statement.  While the U.K.-listed miner has received interest from
jewelry retailers from Canada to China,  Hong Kong  and the U.S.,
Gemfields is in no hurry to sell a stake, Harebottle said.  “There’s no immediate need for cash,” he said, noting the
$36.7 million the company had in the bank as of June 30. “It
would have to add strategic value to the continued growth of the
business,” for Gemfields to consider selling an equity stake,
he said. The company isn’t in any talks regarding that,
Harebottle said.  Securing Supplies  Jewelry makers such as Canada’s  Harry Winston Diamond Corp. (HW) 
and  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  have been cutting deals with mines to secure
supplies of rough diamonds.  Chow Tai Fook (1929) , the world’s biggest
jewelry retailer by market value, signed a two-year supply
agreement with Russian diamond miner Alrosa AO on Nov. 13.  Gemfields, listed on London’s Aim market for smaller
companies, plans to graduate to the main market by the end of
next year, he said. The move would provide greater exposure to
investors.  The company is finalizing a contract with a “Hollywood
starlet” and will in March announce who will become the face of
Gemfield’s colored stones, as it seeks to replicate the
marketing success  De Beers (AAL)  enjoyed after  Marilyn Monroe  recorded
“Diamonds are a Girl’s Best Friend”.  Faberge was founded in 1842 in  St. Petersburg , and became
jeweler to the Russian Imperial Court. The company, famous for
the jeweled eggs it made for Russia’s ruling family, may open
two stores in as many years, with China, Russia and India being
possible hosts, Harebottle said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  