-- Facebook Draws Insufficient Votes on Policy Changes
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-12-11T21:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/facebook-draws-insufficient-votes-on-policy-changes.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is moving ahead with
revisions to its data-sharing and member-input policies that
privacy advocates had opposed after failing to get enough votes
in a user poll on the proposed changes.  Voting ended yesterday at 3 p.m. New York time, with
 668,872  members weighing in, Facebook said. While 88 percent of
the votes sought to stick with the existing policies -- a “no”
vote on the proposed changes -- the company requires that at
least 30 percent of its more than 1 billion users participate
for the vote to be binding.  “We made substantial efforts to inform our users and
encourage them to vote, both through e-mails and their news
feeds,” Elliot Schrage, vice president of communications,
public policy and marketing, said in a  Facebook post  today.
“Despite these efforts and widespread media coverage, less than
1 percent of our user community of more than 1 billion
participated.”  Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook , owner of the world’s
largest social network, last month proposed rolling back voting
options for users, shifting controls on messaging and combining
data from affiliates, including newly acquired photo-sharing
service Instagram. Privacy groups, including the Electronic
Privacy Information Center and the Center for Digital Democracy,
had opposed the changes, asking Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  to scrap the proposal.  Comment Period  Still, the feedback Facebook received from users during the
seven-day comment period resulted in revisions. The company
added language that clarified updates on control over privacy
and on sharing information with affiliates, Schrage said in
today’s post.  The updated policies will improve how Facebook manages the
governance process and better reflects the growing size of its
user base, the company has said. Among other things, the changes
would give users more detailed information about shared data,
including reminders about what’s visible to other people on
Facebook.  Facebook shares advanced less than 1 percent to $27.98 at
the close in New York. The stock has declined 26 percent since
an initial public offering in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  