-- Fidelity Cuts Fees for Index Funds as Price War Heats Up
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-12-11T16:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/fidelity-cuts-fees-for-index-funds-as-price-war-heats-up.html
Fidelity Investments , the second-
biggest mutual-fund company, said it will cut fees on index
mutual funds as a price war with  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Vanguard
Group Inc. heats up.  The firm will make it cheaper to invest in 22 of its funds,
including the Spartan series, by cutting fees and lowering the
minimum required to invest in the most inexpensive retail share
classes, Boston-based Fidelity said today in a statement.  Providers of exchange-traded funds including BlackRock,
Vanguard and  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  have announced cost and fee-
cutting measures in the past three months as fund firms fight
for clients pouring into passive investment funds. Investors
have deposited $306 billion in actively managed mutual funds
through October since the beginning of 2010, compared with $536
billion in ETFs and index mutual funds, according to the
 Investment Company Institute .  “These latest moves are another example of our commitment
to providing workplace retirement plan sponsors and individual
investors access to a wide-array of high-quality index funds at
some of the most competitive pricing in the industry,” J.S.
Wynant, Fidelity’s executive vice president for investment
product management and research, said in the statement.  Fidelity’s $48.5 billion  Spartan 500 Index Fund (FUSEX)  is the
fifth-largest equity index mutual fund in the U.S. Vanguard runs
the remainder of the 10 top funds. Fidelity’s $16.2 billion
Spartan U.S. Bond Index Fund is the fourth-biggest U.S. index
fixed-income mutual fund. Vanguard offers the top three.  Fidelity manages about $1.6 trillion for investors,
including $893 billion in U.S. stock and bond mutual funds,
according to research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Vanguard is the
biggest mutual-fund company, with $2.2 trillion in assets,
including $1.5 trillion in U.S. mutual funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  