-- Fiscal Cliff May Unbuild America
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-12-11T23:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/fiscal-cliff-may-unbuild-america.html
If you want a concrete example of
the unanticipated harm that could come from the U.S. going over
the fiscal cliff, look no further than Build America Bonds, an
efficient alternative way to subsidize state and local
investments. They are part of the spending that is scheduled to
be reduced in January.  Build America Bonds, which were created in the 2009
stimulus bill, are a shining example of the right way to
subsidize activities through the tax code. The wrong way --which
is also the way virtually all other tax subsidies are structured
-- is to provide a tax deduction or exclusion. This means that
the tax break per dollar of subsidized activity varies with the
taxpayer’s marginal rate, and that is both unfair and
inefficient.  Consider, for example, the exemption allowed for interest
paid on state and local bonds. A high-income taxpayer gets a
larger tax break for each $1 of interest paid on the bond than a
middle-income taxpayer who owns the same bond does. This creates
a windfall for high-income taxpayers, a variety of analyses have
concluded. The interest rate on state and local bonds falls by
less than the tax break the high earners enjoy. As a result,
only about  80 percent  of the forgone federal revenue shows up in
reduced state and local government borrowing costs.  Direct Subsidy  Build America Bonds, by contrast, provide a direct federal
subsidy, an explicit tax credit that isn’t dependent on marginal
tax rates. As a result, it is delivered fully to state and local
governments. As I emphasized in my previous article on the
topic, these bonds have two other benefits: They attract new
participants, such as pension funds, and they help lower the
interest rates on traditional state and local bonds.  Build America Bonds were created by the 2009 stimulus bill
for issuance in 2009 and 2010. During that time, state and local
governments used them to finance more than $180 billion in
capital infrastructure projects,  saving , according to the
Treasury Department, an estimated $20 billion in present value
relative to the cost of traditional tax-exempt bonds.  Which brings us to the fiscal cliff. If the sequester --
the automatic budget cuts Congress agreed to as part of the 2011
deal to raise the debt ceiling -- takes effect, issuers of Build
America Bonds will see an increase in their costs because the
bonds’ credit is included in the sequester.  Federal interest payments are protected from the sequester,
for good reason. If the federal government were to miss or
unilaterally reduce interest payments, investors would no longer
want to buy the affected asset. For most other types of
spending, though, the damage lasts only as long as the spending
reduction is in effect -- and then quickly fades.  The problem for Build America Bonds could be fixed in
various ways, including by reclassifying them into one of the
categories that are protected against sequestration. If the
 Barack Obama  administration has the authority to do that, as
some experts believe, it should.  Given the bonds’ more efficient structure, it is a travesty
that the authority to issue more of them has not been extended
past 2010. Subjecting the credit payments on the bonds to a
sequester would only make things worse.  This illustrates just one of the multiple ways in which
going over the fiscal cliff would cause substantial problems.
Reducing the federal credits provided by Build America Bonds
would harm not only those who have already purchased the bonds
but also any hope of reviving the program.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 