-- Foodcorp Put on Watch by S&P on Rainbow Acquisition Concern
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2012-12-11T16:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/foodcorp-put-on-watch-by-s-p-over-uncertain-rainbow-takeover.html
New Foodcorp Holdings Pty Ltd., a
closely held South African food producer, had its debt put on
watch by credit-rating company  Standard & Poor’s  following a
takeover offer by  Rainbow Chicken Ltd. (RBW)   “A change in shareholding structure could increase
Foodcorp’s debt, a company that was already subject to a
leveraged buyout in 2005,” S&P said today in a statement.
“There are significant uncertainties related to the
transaction, Foodcorp’s future financial policy, and the impact
of the new shareholder’s credit quality on Foodcorp.”  Foodcorp has debt held in 390 million euros ($505 million)
of 8.75 percent notes due March 2018. They can be redeemed upon
a change of ownership control at the company for equal to 101
percent of face value plus accrued and unpaid interest, S&P
said. Yields on Foodcorp’s bond dropped five basis points to a
record-low 6.12 percent.  Rainbow,  South Africa ’s largest chicken producer, bid 1
billion rand ($115 million) for 64.2 percent of Johannesburg-
based Foodcorp last month. The deal, supported by a planned 3.9
billion-rand rights offer underwritten by majority shareholder
 Remgro Ltd. (REM) , would broaden Rainbow’s range to include products
from peanut butter to dog food.  Any change of rating will depend on the transaction’s
funding and its effect on the company’s debt once the deal is
completed, S&P said today.  “The issue of additional debt is something they have
singularly come up with,” Justin Williamson, chief executive
officer of Foodcorp, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
The issue wasn’t brought up by the company, he said.  Remgro owns a 73.4 percent stake in Rainbow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  