-- Formula One’s ‘Unequal’ Revenue Split Needs EU Probe, Parr Says
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-12-11T11:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/formula-one-s-unequal-revenue-split-needs-eu-probe-parr-says.html
The European Commission should
examine terms Formula One has promised top-ranked teams Ferrari
and  Red Bull  to see if the payments are anti-competitive, the
former Williams team chairman  Adam Parr  said.  Parr quit Williams in March, a week after  Sky News  reported
that Ferrari and Red Bull would get as much as $45 million each
and a seat on the board to renew terms with the auto racing
series through 2020. Parr had been responsible for negotiating
terms for eighth-ranked Williams.  “There’s a strong case that an unequal division of power
and money to a subset of teams is unlawful,” Parr said by
telephone. He’s not convinced Formula One “is organized with
the right principles of fair competition,” he added.  Parr, a former lawyer, first made such comments in a comic
book called “The Art of War,” which was published Nov. 29 and
is about his five years in Formula One.  He said he quit Williams because “rightly or wrongly” he
felt that series Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  was
withholding an offer of new terms to the nine-time champion
while he was managing its affairs.  Most teams, including Williams and Mercedes, have since
renewed agreements with managing shareholder CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. Neither CVC nor Ecclestone has disclosed details
of the terms since the Sky News report. CVC spokesman James Olley said in an e-mail today the private equity firm had no
immediate response to Parr’s comments.  Competition Probe  Teams are unwilling to complain to the 27-nation European
Union’s executive arm about preferential treatment because they
are “highly dependent on goodwill” from the commercial rights
holder, Parr said.  Parr declined to say if he discussed making a complaint
with team founder  Frank Williams , who has a controlling stake in
the Grove, England-based unit. The  Daily Telegraph  reported on
March 25 that Daimler AG’s Mercedes team was  considering a
complaint  to the EU about unequal terms.  The European Commission closed a  two-year investigation 
into Formula One in 2001 after the sport agreed to end anti-
competitive practices such as restrictions on circuits hosting
other series.  Seven of London-based Formula One’s 20 races this year were
in the European Union. European Commission spokesman Antoine Colombani said he wasn’t aware of any existing complaint or
investigation involving Formula One.  Red Bull’s Sebastian Vettel won the 2012 drivers’
championship in the Nov. 25 season-ending race in  Sao Paulo ,
beating  Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari by three points. Red Bull won
the constructors’ event, 60 points ahead of Ferrari.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  