-- Genworth Names McInerney CEO to Fix Mortgage Insurer
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-12-11T22:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/genworth-names-mcinerney-ceo-to-stem-mortgage-insurer-losses-1-.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the insurer
whose stock plunged more than 80 percent since the end of 2006,
named Thomas J. McInerney as chief executive officer to stanch
losses from insuring mortgages in the U.S.  McInerney, 56, a former executive at ING Groep NV, replaces
Michael Fraizer, who stepped down May 1, the Richmond, Virginia-
based insurer said today in a statement.  Genworth is seeking to regain investor confidence as
Moody’s Investors Service reviews whether to cut the company’s
 credit rating  to junk status. The insurer needs to limit losses
from backing U.S. home loans and is seeking to divest a stake in
its Australia  mortgage-insurance  unit after delaying a plan this
year for an initial public offering.  “The choice of McInerney was a solid one for Genworth, as
the company clearly will benefit from having a seasoned
executive with extensive experience in insurance,” said  Mark Palmer , an analyst at BTIG LLC, in a note to investors.  Genworth  climbed  18 cents, or 2.7 percent, to close at
$6.90 in New York. The company has gained 5.3 percent this year,
compared with the 14 percent advance of the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  “Investors want to see actions,” James Riepe, Genworth’s
chairman, said in a telephone interview. “As they see more and
more actions on our part, they’re going to feel better about the
company, and I think that will be reflected in the stock
price.”  Swaps Fall  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the debt of
Genworth fell 37.5 basis points to 415 basis points as of 3:30
p.m. in  New York , according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit-swaps levels typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  McInerney worked most recently as an adviser to Boston
Consulting Group Inc., according to the statement. At ING, the
largest Dutch financial-services company, he was chief operating
officer of the insurance operation, responsible for a business
with 425 billion euros ($552 billion) of assets and 35,000
employees, according to the statement. He previously was CEO of
ING Americas, overseeing insurance, pension and investment-
management businesses in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Latin America .  Sustaining Reputation  McInerney holds a bachelor’s degree from Colgate University
and a master’s degree in business administration from the  Tuck
School  of Business at  Dartmouth College . Before working at ING,
he was an executive at Aetna Financial Services.  “It is clear that everyone at Genworth is focused on
sustaining its reputation for delivering high quality products
and service,” McInerney said in the statement.  McInerney takes over as CEO and president effective Jan. 1,
and will be elected to the insurer’s board of directors,
according to the statement. Chief Financial Officer Martin Klein
has been acting CEO.  Genworth has retreated from the sale of variable annuities
and Medicare supplement coverage to focus on life insurance and
long-term care policies in the U.S. The company said April 27
that Chief Investment Officer Ronald Joelson was stepping down
from overseeing the $75 billion portfolio to join Northwestern
Mutual  Life Insurance  Co. in the same role. Daniel Sheehan was
promoted to Genworth CIO, the insurer said.  Mortgage Insurance  Fraizer, who guided Genworth through its spinoff from
General Electric Co. after a 2004 IPO, had misjudged when
results would rebound at the U.S. mortgage insurer. He told
investors in a December 2009 presentation that Genworth expected
quarterly operating earnings at the unit would “turn positive
in the mid-2011 time frame.” In a July 2011 statement, Genworth
cited “worsening trends” in the business as it used $375
million to provide capital support to the unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  