-- German Investor Confidence Jumps to 7-Month High on Outlo
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-12-11T11:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/german-investor-confidence-jumped-in-december-on-growth-outlook.html
German investor confidence jumped
more than economists forecast to a seven-month high in December
on speculation  Europe ’s largest economy will gather momentum
next year.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, climbed
to 6.9 from minus 15.7 in November. Economists predicted a gain
to minus 11.5, according to the median of 38 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News survey .  The German economy will contract this quarter and stagnate
in the first three months of next year as the sovereign debt
crisis curbs demand for its goods in the euro area, the
Bundesbank forecast last week. Still, the benchmark  DAX share
index  has rallied more than 17 percent since the  European
Central Bank  pledged on July 26 to save the euro and unveiled an
unlimited bond-purchase program. Business confidence
unexpectedly rose in November.  Germany  faces “a very favorable environment, largely on
the back of expansionary monetary policy,” said  Ralph Solveen ,
head of economic research at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“Should the sovereign debt crisis continue to ease in the next
few months as we expect, this implies a significant revival of
the economy in the course of 2013.”  ZEW’s gauge of the current economic situation rose to 5.7
from 5.4 in November. The euro gained after the report to trade
at $1.2965 at noon in Frankfurt, up 0.2 percent today.  Euro-Area Recession  European stocks advanced for a seventh day before Federal
Reserve policy makers start their two-day meeting. The  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.3 percent to 280.33.  German economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the third
quarter from 0.3 percent in the second as the euro area slipped
into recession for the second time in four years.  The ECB last week forecast the 17-nation euro economy will
contract 0.3 percent in 2013, leaving the door ajar for further
interest-rate reductions, and the Bundesbank slashed its
forecast for German growth to 0.4 percent from 1.6 percent.  “The latest data suggests that the Bundesbank and the ECB
may have become a bit too pessimistic,” said  Christian Schulz ,
senior economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “This could
spring positive surprises for them in the New Year and thus
reduce the likelihood of any further rate cut.”  German Resilience  While Germany’s economy will “continue to cool into
2013,” it “will not have to face a recession,” ZEW President
 Wolfgang Franz  said in a statement. “However, that’s only as
long as the crisis in the  euro zone  doesn’t deepen once again.”  As demand wanes from the euro area, Germany’s biggest
export market, some companies are compensating with exports to
faster growing markets outside Europe.  Shipments from Germany to non-European Union countries
increased 9.9 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier,
the Federal Statistics Office said last week, with those to the
U.S. surging 25.7 percent. Deliveries to EU member states
declined 0.9 percent while exports to other euro-area nations
fell 3 percent.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, last month posted third-quarter earnings that
exceeded analyst expectations, helped by growth in the U.S. and
 Asia . BMW-brand deliveries increased 26 percent to 145,452 cars
and SUVs in November, the Munich-based manufacturer said
yesterday.  Quarterly Contraction  Still, “the situation in the euro area represents quite
some risk for the German economy,” said Lothar Hessler, an
economist at HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG in Dusseldorf. “The
latest numbers for industrial production are quite worrisome. I
expect a significant economic contraction in the fourth
quarter.”  German production  fell 2.6 percent in October from
September, when it declined 1.3 percent, the  Economy Ministry 
said on Dec. 7.  In the euro area, services and manufacturing output shrank
for a 10th month in November, London-based Markit Economics said
last week, adding that “France, Spain and  Italy  continue to see
strong contractions.”  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Opel division announced yesterday it
will stop making cars at its plant in Bochum, Germany, in 2016
as the U.S. automaker seeks to stem European losses.  Fed Meeting  U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers begin a two-day meeting
today and will publish updated projections on economic growth,
unemployment, inflation and  interest rates  tomorrow.  Officials are considering whether to supplement $40 billion
a month of mortgage-bond buying with Treasury purchases when
their Operation Twist program expires at the end of the month.
Reports on the  trade balance  and small business optimism are due
later today.  In Asia, Indonesia’s central bank kept its benchmark
interest rate unchanged for a 10th month while in  Australia , a
private survey showed business confidence plunged last month to
the lowest level since 2009.  In the U.K., a house price gauge declined in November,
remaining around a level indicating “broadly flat” values, the
Royal Institiution of Chartered Surveyors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  