-- German Stocks Rise as Investor Confidence Beats Estimates
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-12-11T16:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/german-stocks-are-little-changed-thyssenkrupp-climbs.html
German stocks  advanced to their
highest level in nearly five years as a report showed confidence
among the country’s investors rose.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  surged 5.6 percent, for the biggest gain on
the  DAX Index. (DAX)  EON SE and  RWE AG (RWE)  climbed 2.6 percent and 2.2
percent, respectively, as a gauge of utilities posted the
biggest increase on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  The DAX added 0.8 percent to 7,589.75 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , its highest level since January 2008. The
benchmark measure has  rallied 27 percent  from this year’s low on
June 5 as the  European Central Bank  unveiled a plan to buy the
bonds of euro-area countries that seek its help. The broader
HDAX Index increased 0.7 percent today.  “This shows a clear improvement in sentiment,” said
Jerome Forneris, who helps manage $8.5 billion at Banque Martin
Maurel in Marseille. “This statistic is closely followed by
investors.  Germany  is the locomotive of  Europe .”  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, climbed
to 6.9 this month from minus 15.7 in November. Economists had
forecast a gain to minus 11.5, according to the  median of 38
estimates  in a Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.S., Fed rate setters begin a two-day meeting
today. The officials will consider whether to supplement $40
billion a month of mortgage-bond purchases with Treasury
purchases when their Operation Twist program expires at the end
of this month. They will also issue updated projections on
economic growth, unemployment and inflation on Dec. 12.  Italy’s Election  In  Italy , Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said that his
resignation and the elections due as early as February will not
lead to a political vacuum in the country.  ThyssenKrupp rallied 5.6 percent to 17.18 euros.  Germany’s
largest steelmaker  said it will sell its Steel Americas business
by the end of next year. Chief Financial Officer Guido Kerkhoff
said that more than five bidders have expressed an interest in
either or both of the plants in Alabama and Rio de Janeiro
state. The shares earlier dropped as much as 3.4 percent after
the company said that it won’t pay an  annual dividend  after
reporting a second straight yearly loss, including a 3.6
billion-euro ($4.7 billion) writedown for the Steel Americas
unit.  EON and RWE rose 2.6 percent to 14.20 euros and 2.2 percent
to 31.90 euros, respectively. German electricity for the next
day increased to the highest price in 10 months, according to
broker data compiled by Bloomberg, as output from renewable
sources fell and RWE shut its Gundremmingen-C reactor for an
unplanned stoppage.  Luxury Cars  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, gained 1.8 percent to 70.59 euros. The stock was
raised to buy from hold at MM Warburg & Co.  Solarworld AG (SWV) , Germany’s biggest maker of solar panels,
rallied 9.7 percent to 1.07 euros. Serbia plans to cut feed-in
tariffs for wind farms and solar parks to stimulate renewable
energy. It will also increase incentives for electricity
generated by small hydroelectric plants.  Nordex SE (NDX1)  added 2.8 percent to 2.92 euros. The wind-turbine
maker received a contract to supply and install 32 turbines at a
wind farm in  Romania .  Aixtron SE slid 3.5 percent to 8.73 euros. Equinet Bank AG
cut its share-price forecast for the maker of equipment for the
semiconductor industry to 7.50 euros from 8 euros. The brokerage
said business trends remain subdued in LED markets following a
meeting with Aixtron’s head of  investor relations .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  