-- German Power Grid Seen Needing $55 Billion on Renewables
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-12-11T14:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/german-power-grid-seen-needing-55-billion-to-absorb-renewables.html
Germany ’s power lines may require
investment of 42.5 billion euros ($55 billion) by 2030 to cope
with extra renewable-energy generators feeding electricity into
the network, according to state-owned energy agency  Dena .  Distribution grids will have to expand by 193,000
kilometers (120,000 miles), while 25,000 kilometers of current
lines will need upgrades if the share of renewables in Germany’s
energy mix rises to 82 percent from 26 percent. Dena cited a
 study  it compiled with regional grid operators.  “We will be able to consume the electricity from
decentralized renewable generators only if we expand the grid
infrastructure accordingly,” Dena head Stephan Kohler said
today in an e-mailed statement.  Power supply has moved to the center of the political
agenda in Germany since  Chancellor Angela Merkel  decided last
year to replace nuclear reactors with more fossil-fired plants
and a growing share of clean-energy sources. Germany must
stabilize its grids as it adds wind farms and solar parks, which
are subject to irregular output as the weather changes.  If the share of renewables in the energy mix only reaches
62 percent by 2030, the network overhaul will cost 27.5 billion
euros, Dena said.  Dena is “dramatizing” the costs of the overhaul, Oliver
Krischer, a lawmaker with the opposition  Green Party , said in an
e-mailed statement.  “What’s not being said is that grid operators hardly
modernized in the past 10 years,” Krischer said. “That has
nothing to do with the energy switch but is the result of wrong
political priorities when regulating the  power grid .”  Germany must ensure that grid operators get reasonable
returns as current levels fail to account for the high
investments they’ll have to make in coming years, Dena’s Kohler
said.  “The legal framework must be urgently adjusted to
facilitate the necessary investment in distribution grids that
are fit for the future,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  