-- Ghana Opposition to Contest Presidential Vote After Loss
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-12-11T18:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/ghana-opposition-may-challenge-vote-after-akufo-addo-loss.html
Ghana’s main opposition party said
it will challenge the results of a presidential election in
court as supporters protested the defeat of its leader,  Nana Akufo-Addo , in the capital, Accra.  “We are taking our matter to the Supreme Court, and they
will decide the fate of this elections,” Akufo-Addo told a
rally of his supporters in the city today as he urged them to
stay calm. “We know we won this election. The truth of this
election will come out however long it takes.”  The 68-year-old leader of the New Patriotic Party got 47.7
percent of votes in the Dec. 7 and Dec. 8 elections, while  John Dramani Mahama  of the ruling National Democratic Congress won
with 50.7 percent, according to the Electoral Commission. Six
other candidates received the rest of the votes.  President-elect John Mahama, 54, who came to office in July
following the death of  John Atta Mills , faces calls from
Ghanaians to spread more equally the benefits from oil
production that began in 2010 and rising output of gold. The
economy expanded at the fastest pace in Africa last year at 14.4
percent. It’s projected to grow 8.2 percent this year and 7.8
percent in 2013, according to the International Monetary Fund.  Cedi Weakens  Ghana’s cedi, which has fallen 13 percent against the
dollar this year, weakened 0.2 percent to 1.8953 a dollar by
6:10 p.m. in Accra as investors “became nervous about court
challenges” which may annul or change vote results,  Coura Fall ,
a sub-Saharan Africa strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The cedi is the third-worst performer this year of 22
African currencies monitored by Bloomberg. The yield on the
country’s $750 million of Eurobonds eased seven basis points to
4.96 percent. A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage
point.  The legal team of the NPP is “checking the robustness of
the evidence” and a court appearance will be made within the
next few days, Chairman  Jake Obetsebi-Lamptey  told reporters
today.  “This is not a matter of getting power or being in power,
it’s a matter of strengthening our democracy,” he said. “If we
find that there are flaws within the Electoral Commission
itself, then we need to bring it to the people of this country
so that they stop treating the commission as if it’s not
answerable to the law.”  Discredit Party  The NPP will “exhaust all the legal means available to
them,”   Kissy Agyeman-Togobo , an Accra-based partner with
Songhai Advisory LLP, said in an interview.  The army and anti-riot police went to the NPP headquarters
and the area around one of Accra’s biggest transportation hubs,
Kwame Nkrumah Circle, where Akufo-Addo supporters handed out
papers they said showed the discrepancies in the vote tally.  One man was stabbed “by one of the NPP supporters” and
taken to hospital, Christian Tetteh Yohuno, deputy Accra
regional police commander, said by phone. “Other people who
walked by in NDC shirts or drove with NDC signs on their cars
were also attacked, but we were able to save the situation and
averted violence.”  If the NPP is unable to produce evidence to support its
claim of systematic electoral fraud, “then its legal challenge
will discredit the party itself, more so than Ghana and its
democratic processes,” Ben Payton, Africa analyst at Bath,
U.K.-based risk analysis company Maplecroft, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Deficit Widens  In a speech celebrating his victory in the polls, Mahama on
Dec. 9 called for unity and a “spirit of cooperation.”  Investor confidence in Ghana may be affected if a court
case becomes a protracted legal battle that prevents the
government from “addressing its most urgent priorities,
particularly the structural deficit,” Payton said.  Ghana’s budget deficit widened to 7.3 percent of gross
domestic product in the first nine months of the year from 1.9
percent a year earlier, according to the central bank. By the
end of the year, the gap may reach 7.5 percent, according to
 Razia Khan , head of Africa research at Standard Chartered Plc in
London.  During the campaign, Mahama pledged to reduce the deficit
to 5 percent, keep  inflation  below 10 percent and boost economic
growth to at least 8 percent annually.  Foreign observers including the Commonwealth Observer Group
and the Economic Community of West African States have deemed
the vote credible, urging all political parties to accept the
results.  Olive Branches  The results announced by the electoral commission
“accurately reflect” the ballots cast on voting day, Justice
Vincent Crabbe, co-chair of the Coalition of Domestic Election
Observers, which deployed 4,500 people nationwide to monitor the
polls, said yesterday.  “President Mahama is adept at political reconciliation and
will likely extend several olive branches, including possibly a
few cabinet posts, to NPP leaders and others outside of the
ruling party,” Eurasia Group analysts  Philippe de Pontet  and
 James Clinton Francis  said in an e-mailed note.  Tullow Oil Plc  operates Ghana’s Jubilee crude field, while
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  and  Newmont Mining Corp.  mine gold in
Africa’s second-biggest producer of the metal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  