-- Ghana’s Mahama Celebrates Win as Opposition Contests Vote
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-12-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/ghana-s-mahama-celebrates-win-as-opposition-contests-vote.html
Ghana ’s president, John Dramani Mahama, celebrated his election win as opposition leader Nana Akufo-Addo’s New Patriotic Party said it is gathering evidence
to contest the results.  Mahama of the National Democratic Congress got 50.7 percent
of votes cast on Dec. 7 and 8, while Akufo-Addo took 47.7
percent, according to the Electoral Commission. Observers from
the U.K.-based Commonwealth, the African Union, the Economic
Community of West African States and the Coalition of Domestic
Election Observers described the election as credible,
democratic and transparent.  “I urge everyone to take this opportunity to come together
to move out of the spirit of competition and move now into the
spirit of cooperation,” Mahama told cheering supporters at a
rally in  Accra , the capital, yesterday. “The issues and
challenges that face our nation have no allegiances. They cut
across lines of political affiliation, religious and ethnic
background, social class and regional location.”  Mahama, 54, who came to office in July following the death
of John Atta Mills, is set to face calls from Ghanaians to
equitably share benefits from oil production that began in 2010
and rising output of gold. The economy expanded at the fastest
pace in Africa last year at 14.4 percent. It’s projected to grow
8.2 percent this year and 7.8 percent in 2013, according to the
International Monetary Fund.  Contest Results  Voting was extended to a second day on Dec. 8 in more than
400 polling stations after biometric machines used to confirm
identities of voters broke down and delays in getting election
materials to centers led to long lines.  “We believe the evidence is compelling” of fraud in the
vote, Nana Akomea, communications director for the NPP, said by
phone today. The party has found “big discrepancies in the
results from the constituencies and those announced by the
Electoral Commission.”  The country’s currency, the cedi, gained less than 0.1
percent to 1.8916 a dollar by 6:01 p.m. in Accra yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Ghana’s
$750 million of Eurobonds eased less than one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 4.97 percent.  “A long, drawn-out legal challenge to the election result,
and an increasingly tense political environment, may contribute
to investor nervousness,” Razia Khan, head of  Africa  research
with Standard Chartered Bank Plc, said in an e-mailed note.
“With Ghana reliant on portfolio flows to finance its twin
deficits, the Ghana cedi would be vulnerable to any exit by
foreign investors.”  Supreme Court  Supporters of the NPP surrounded a convoy carrying Benin
President and African Union Chairman Thomas Boni Yayi who was
meeting Akufo-Addo at his house in Accra yesterday. On Dec. 9,
they protested at the Electoral Commission headquarters and were
dispersed by police officers on horseback.  Ghana’s Supreme Court has jurisdiction over disputes with
the presidential vote results, according to a document on the
judiciary’s website.  The Coalition of Domestic Election Observers, comprised of
4,500 people, “can confidently assure all political contestants
and the public that the official results announced by the
Electoral Commission accurately reflect the ballots cast by
voters,” it said in a statement to reporters yesterday. All
candidates should accept the results and “respect the will of
the Ghanaian people.”  Deficit Widens  Ghana’s budget deficit widened to 7.3 percent of gross
domestic product in the first nine months of the year from 1.9
percent a year earlier, according to the country’s central bank.
By the end of the year, the gap may reach 7.5 percent, Khan
said.  During the campaign, Mahama pledged to reduce the deficit
to 5 percent, keep inflation below 10 percent and boost economic
growth to at least 8 percent annually.  “I know that together we can change this country,” he
said at the rally. “We can and we will make it better.”  The former communications minister and member of Parliament
said he would more than double electricity output to 5,000
megawatts and use oil and natural gas to expand manufacturing
industries.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  pumps crude at the Jubilee field, with
production forecast to reach 90,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day by the end of this year, from last year’s average of 78,200,
according to the company. Tullow, Anadarko Petroleum Ltd. and
Eni SpA are developing more wells, while AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.
and  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  are expanding their gold mines as
prices for the metal rose 8.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  