-- GM Boosting Discounts to Sell Trucks Seen as Holiday Gift
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-12-11T05:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/gm-boosting-discounts-to-sell-trucks-seen-as-holiday-gift.html
December is turning out to be a good
month to buy a pickup.  General Motors Co. (GM) , straining with an oversupply of full-
sized trucks, is offering a stepped-up package of incentives on
 Chevrolet  Silverados and GMC Sierras. The incentives may have
risen to as much as $5,000 per pickup in December from less than
$4,000 last month on Silverados, according to researcher
TrueCar.com’s estimates.  The incentive program represents a slippery slope for the
world’s largest automaker. The company earlier vowed to hold the
line on such promotions to protect profits through the end of
the year, even as competitors flood showrooms with traditional
year-end deals. Walking a line offering incentives that lure
buyers without threatening profits or spooking investors is the
difficult game that GM is now forced to play.  “Everybody is trying to figure out: Is GM going to do
something dramatic to deal with the supply situation in
December?” said  Jesse Toprak , an industry analyst with TrueCar,
a website that tracks new-car deals.  For now, GM is keeping lots of people guessing. The company
insists its discounts are every bit as attractive as Chrysler
Group LLC’s and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s. At the same time, company
executives are working hard to reassure investors that they are
not about to return to the overly generous incentives
reminiscent of failed strategies of the recent past.  December Special  Incentive spending by GM will be worth about $4,000 to
$5,000 per big pickup in December, TrueCar estimated, based on
the deals advertised in the first week of the month.  Jessica Caldwell, an industry analyst with Edmunds.com,
another website that tracks car deals, agreed that GM’s pickup
incentive spending in December appears to be on track with last
year. Edmunds estimated GM’s Silverado incentive spending at
$4,500 last December.  It’s still nowhere near the $8,200 incentive package being
advertised on Dodge Rams, according to Chrysler’s website, and
well below the $6,500 incentives that Toprak estimates Ford is
offering. Nissan Motor Co. is advertising offers on its Titan
pickup that total as much as $7,450, according to its website.  Even so, aggressive Chevy dealers are able to put together
large discounts, as much as $7,000 on certain high-end trucks,
said Peter Nesvold, an industry analyst with Jefferies & Co.  Still, GM’s incentives, like those of Ford and Chrysler,
are well below their historic highs, and they aim to keep it
that way, the company has said. Detroit-based GM said it would
cut production before going too far on incentives, an option it
says it has time to pursue in 2013 if necessary.  Tougher Situation  Still, GM is in a tougher situation than its rivals.
Chrysler has a little too much inventory, while Ford and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  are about normal. Everyone’s aiming for a big
December, for trucks, luxury and sedans, too. The annualized
sales pace, adjusted for seasonal trends, may exceed 16 million
for the best month since 2007, according to TrueCar.  “We don’t control what our competitors are going to do
from an incentive standpoint,” Kurt McNeil, GM vice president
of sales operations, told analysts and reporters on Dec. 3
“We’re trying to stay disciplined.”  Combined U.S. sales of the Silverado and Sierra decreased
8.3 percent last month to 42,400 while deliveries of Ford’s F-
Series line increased 18 percent to 56,299 and Ram pickups rose
23 percent to 24,337 in November.  As GM’s sales fell, pickup inventories swelled 4.4 percent
to 245,853, and the company said it may finish 2012 “a little
above” its inventory goal. GM had targeted year-end, full-sized
pickup inventories of 200,000 to 220,000.  Inventory Buildup  The inventory buildup comes as GM’s North American
operations continue to outperform the automaker’s operations in
other regions of the world. While GM reported North America
operating income of $5.48 billion during the first three
quarters, the automaker’s European business continues to lose
money.  GM’s pickup inventory “has less to do with the vehicle
itself and more to do with GM managing its earnings,” Matthew Stover, an industry analyst with Guggenheim Securities LLC based
in  Boston , said in a telephone interview last week.  “Had  Europe  held up, I think they probably would’ve been
inclined to raise incentives to move the inventory,” he said.
“Given the fact that Europe has been so problematic, I think
there has been bias inside the company to continue to build
those vehicles and not really offer significant incentives.”  After GM’s inventory news last week, some analysts,
including  Efraim Levy  of Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ, cut
earnings estimates. Levy cut his 2012 earnings per share
estimate by 27 cents to $3.30, he said in a statement last week.  Lower Estimates  James Albertine, a Baltimore-based industry analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus, on Dec. 4 cut his fourth-quarter earnings per
share estimate to 52 cents from 57 in part because of inventory
assumptions, he said in a note to investors.  “We continue to monitor GM inventory levels, still
considerably higher than peers, but we see upside potential to
4Q12 GMNA gross profit given GM’s industry-low incentive
spending,” he wrote.  GM’s pickup sales were hurt in November because it was
caught off guard by heavy incentive spending by competitors
clearing out model-year 2012 pickups, Alan Batey, GM vice
president of U.S. sales, said on Dec. 3.  “What we saw in the marketplace in November, we felt they
were extreme and the data bears that out,” Batey said. “We
came off of a very, very stronger October, and we expect we’ll
pick it up again in December. So, this is a one-month adjustment
and nothing is going to change on a longer-term basis.”  November Reduction  GM decreased incentive spending on pickups in November
compared with a year ago, researcher Autodata Corp. said.
Average incentive spending on the Silverado decreased 11 percent
to $3,988 per unit last month compared to $4,459 a year earlier
while Sierra incentive spending was sliced 12 percent to $4,226
from $4,801 a year ago, Autodata said.  That put GM’s incentive spending behind Chrysler’s $4,748
for the Ram pickup. GM’s spending was more than Ford’s $3,294
per unit.  For the first 11 months of the year, GM trimmed Silverado
discounts to $4,534 from $4,702 during the same period a year
earlier and reduced Sierra incentives to $4,851 from $5,176.  GM’s total incentive spending this year through November
declined 3.7 percent to $3,107 on average per vehicle, according
to Autodata. Ford’s incentive spending was estimated to be
$2,624 during that same period, a 1.3 percent decline, while
Chrysler’s spending rose 1.9 percent to $3,248.  ‘Clear Inventory’  “It appears that GM is now raising incentives to clear
inventory, a move that isn’t concerning to us given the degree
to which GM has reduced spend over the past few months,”  Itay Michaeli , an industry analyst with Citigroup Inc., said in a
note to investors.  Batey specifically mentioned Chrysler’s incentive spending,
saying GM was “shocked” by it. “We haven’t seen those levels
and frankly, we don’t think that’s sustainable,” he said.  Last week, Chevrolet’s website began advertising customer
and bonus cash totaling as much as $4,500 on out-going 2012
pickup models. A year earlier, Chevrolet offered outgoing 2011
Silverados and Sierras with similar cash incentives of $4,500
for regular-cab trucks and $5,000 for extended and crew cabs,
according to Edmunds.  GM is offering more for its new model year pickups compared
with a year earlier. The Chevrolet website offers incentives of
$3,500 on 2013 models while a year earlier the automaker offered
$2,500 for 2012 models, according to Edmunds.  There are numerous discounts and rebates available that can
be stacked that in some cases can reduce the price on higher
trim level trucks by as much as $7,000, Nesvold said in note to
investors, citing a high-volume dealer in  Texas .  “Our contact expects December to be a very busy month,
with approximately 25% of total inventory,” including cars and
trucks, turning over, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  