-- Gold Halts 3-Day Advance as Investors Await Fed Meeting
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-12-11T19:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/gold-halts-three-day-advance-before-fed-meeting-etps-set-record.html
Gold prices fell for the first time
in four sessions as investors awaited signals on whether Federal
Reserve policy makers will expand monetary stimulus as they
start a two-day meeting today.  Forty-eight of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict
the  Federal Open Market Committee  will purchase Treasuries to
bolster an existing program to buy $40 billion in mortgage bonds
each month. The panel pledged in October to continue that plan
until the labor market improves “substantially.”  “There is not much in terms of data flow to give markets
direction today, so we could see further volatility as the Fed
commences its two-day meeting,” Marc Ground, a Johannesburg-
based commodity strategist at Standard Bank Plc, said in a
report today.  Gold futures for February delivery slid 0.3 percent to
settle at $1,709.60 an ounce at 1:34 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Prices capped a third straight session of gains yesterday,
the longest rally since Aug. 27.  Holdings in gold-backed  exchange-traded products  reached a
record 2,629.3 metric tons yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Prices are set for a 12th consecutive annual gain as
central banks from the U.S. to China pledge more steps to spur
economic growth.  The Fed is scheduled this month to end Operation Twist, in
which it swaps $45 billion of short-term Treasuries each month
for longer-term government debt.  “Speculation is rife that as Operation Twist ends, the Fed
will consider expanding its asset purchases,” David Govett,
head of precious metals at Marex Spectron Group in  London , said
in a report. “If this were to happen, then it should provide an
upward impetus for the precious metals.”  Silver futures for March delivery fell 1.1 percent to
$33.017 an ounce, the first decline in five sessions.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
January delivery gained 1 percent to $1,640 an ounce, capping a
fifth straight gain.  Palladium futures for March delivery declined 1.1 percent
to $696.80 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  