-- Goldman Says Due Diligence ‘Not Our Job’ in Dragon Sale
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/goldman-says-due-diligence-not-our-job-in-dragon-sale.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s lawyer
said it wasn’t the firm’s job to do financial due diligence for
its client, Dragon Systems Inc., in the company’s 2000 sale to a
Belgian competitor that collapsed in an accounting scandal.  John Donovan Jr., a lawyer for the New York-based bank,
told a jury in federal court in Boston yesterday that Goldman
Sachs was hired to negotiate the terms of the transaction for
Dragon, not to uncover the fraud at the acquirer, Lernout &
Hauspie Speech Products NV.  The founders of Dragon sued Goldman Sachs claiming its bad
advice led to a disastrous $580 million all-stock transaction.  “Financial accounting diligence was not Goldman’s job,”
Donovan, a partner in the  Boston  law firm Ropes & Gray LLP, told
six jurors and six alternates yesterday in his opening
statement. “You turn to auditors and accountants to ask
questions about auditing and accounting.”  Jim and Janet Baker, pioneers in computer speech
recognition, claim Goldman Sachs’s failure to pursue red flags
cost them their company and access to technology they spent
their professional lives creating, including the rights to
Dragon NaturallySpeaking, the company’s popular dictation
software.  Within months of the sale’s June 2000 close, Lernout &
Hauspie, based in Ieper,  Belgium , filed for bankruptcy after an
investigation found the firm fabricated customers and reported
phony revenue. Several executives were prosecuted and jailed.  Cooked Books  “Lernout & Hauspie was a fraud,” Donovan argued. “They
cooked the books and it was a highly sophisticated scheme that
took years to unravel.”  Donovan told jurors that Goldman Sachs urged Dragon to get
its accountants at Arthur Andersen LLP to probe Lernout &
Hauspie’s financial statements. Goldman Sachs didn’t owe a duty
to the Bakers as shareholders because it was hired to advise
Dragon, not them, he said.  “Goldman Sachs was to interact with the board and the
management, not the shareholders,” Donovan said.  Donovan told jurors that the four-man Goldman Sachs team
assigned to the Dragon transaction did a good job of bringing
the deal to completion.  When Goldman Sachs was hired by Dragon in 1999, the company
was badly managed, had poor finances and was overly dependent on
a single product, Dragon NaturallySpeaking, which accounted for
85 percent of revenue, he said. The company had few alternatives
to the Lernout & Hauspie sale, he said.  Offer Changed  The Bakers agreed to let Lernout & Hauspie change their
offer from a half-stock, half-cash deal to one that was all
stock without Goldman Sachs’s input, Donovan said. And Dragon’s
owners failed to demand a collar on the deal, to protect them if
the shares declined, because the Bakers thought the Lernout &
Hauspie shares would increase in value, he said.  “Goldman did the job that Dragon expected,” Donovan told
the jurors. “That’s what the evidence will be.”  The Bakers, who started Dragon with $30,000 in their West
Newton,  Massachusetts , home, owned 51 percent of the company.
They are joined in the suit by Paul Bamberg and Robert Roth,
Dragon co-founders who held a minority of its shares.  The trial started Dec. 10 with jury selection and opening
statements by lawyers representing the Dragon founders.  Judge Saris  U.S. District Judge Patti Saris  told jurors Dec. 10 that
it may last until Jan. 25.  After Donovan’s opening statement, the Bakers’ lawyer, Alan
Cotler of Reed Smith LLP, called Jim Baker as the first witness
in the trial. Cotler immediately asked his client a series of
questions to try to rebut the claims Donovan had made.  “What was Goldman hired to do?” Cotler asked Baker.  “They were hired to be our financial adviser for finding a
suitable acquirer,” Baker answered. “And part of finding a
suitable acquirer was to do due diligence, or what a layman
might call ‘to kick the tires.’”  Dragon had “lots of other options” if it had been advised
to reject the sale to Lernout & Hauspie, Baker said, including a
possible sale to  Visteon Corp. (VC) , a former Ford Motor Co. unit.  Dragon’s Origins  After a break, Baker testified about the origins of Dragon,
starting with his graduation in 1967 from Princeton University,
as class valedictorian, and graduate studies in mathematics at
Rockefeller University and in computer science at Carnegie
Mellon University. He met Janet MacIver, a graduate student in
biophysics, in 1970 and they married the next year, he told
jurors.  After a series of positions in which they researched
computer speech recognition, the Bakers, with physicists Bamberg
and Roth, started Dragon Systems Inc.  “We had to be profitable, because that’s what we were
living on,” Baker said of the company’s early years. Later,
Dragon sold a minority share in the company to computer disk
drive maker  Seagate Technology PLC (STX) , he said.  The introduction in 1997 of Dragon NaturallySpeaking, the
first large-vocabulary dictation program that could distinguish
words as they were spoken at a natural rate, rather than with
pauses between words, caused Dragon to grow to a company with
more than 300 employees and offices in Newton, Massachusetts,
the U.K., Germany and  Japan , he said.  Acquisition Offers  When the company hired Goldman Sachs, it was fielding
unsolicited acquisition offers, he said. It was seeking the
money to pursue company-developed technologies including speech-
recognition for cars and for telephones and other handheld
devices.  Baker told jurors that Dragon’s technology and the people
who developed it made the company valuable. The Goldman Sachs
team had said Dragon was worth as much as $1 billion, he told
jurors.  Baker’s testimony is scheduled to continue today.  The case is Baker v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 09-cv-10053, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  