-- Greinke Adds to Dodgers Payroll, Perhaps at Cost to Yankees Fans
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/greinke-signing-adds-to-dodgers-payroll-that-may-cost-n-y-fans.html
The new owners of the Los Angeles
Dodgers are taking their cue from the free-spending late New
York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, and fans in both cities
may get the bill.  The Dodgers yesterday introduced Zack Greinke after making
him the highest-paid right-handed pitcher in Major League
Baseball history with a six-year contract the Los Angeles Times
said is worth $147 million. Come opening day, the Dodgers likely
will have the highest major league payroll ever, topping the
Yankees’ $209.1 million mark from 2008.  As Steinbrenner’s son,  Hal Steinbrenner , tightens the reins
on the Yankees’ spending to avoid luxury tax repercussions in
2014, the Dodgers have been on a $600 million player acquisition
spree since their purchase by Guggenheim Baseball Management for
$2.15 billion in March.  “We want to win,”  Magic Johnson , a basketball Hall of
Fame member and a minority partner in the Dodgers, said at
Greinke’s news conference when asked why it seems that money
suddenly is no object around a franchise that last won the World
Series in 1988.  Following  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s $3 billion, 20-year agreement
last year to telecast the Los Angeles Lakers’ basketball games,
the Dodgers have discussed a $6 billion, 25-year deal with  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  Such TV deals enable teams like the Dodgers to spend, and
raise questions about who will eventually pick up the check,
said  David Carter , executive director of the Sports Business
Institute at the University of  Southern California .  DirecTV (DTV)  said
it has added a $3 surcharge for new customers in some markets,
including the two biggest, L.A. and New York, to help cover
sports-network carriage fees.  ‘Residual Effect’  “Fans are welcoming the investment in payroll and at the
same time a lot of people are trying to figure out how it’s
going to pencil out for whoever acquires those broadcast
rights,” Carter said in a telephone interview. “It may have a
positive impact on the Dodgers and their game-day experience,
but I think it’s going to have a residual effect on this whole
debate about what’s going on with cable sports.”  The Dodgers acquired pitcher  Josh Beckett , first baseman
 Adrian Gonzalez  and outfielder  Carl Crawford  -- the three
highest-paid Boston Red Sox players -- during the 2012 season,
then missed the playoffs with an 86-76 record. The Dodgers last
reached the postseason in 2009.  $220 Million  Having signed South Korean pitcher Ryu Hyun-jin to a six-
year, $36 million deal two days ago, the Dodgers now owe more
than $220 million to their 2013 roster.  “It’s clearly all relative, and when you look at it in
terms of proportionality, it may not be that out of whack,”
Carter said.  Greinke, the 2009 American League Cy Young Award winner,
was the top pitcher available in free agency. The 29-year-old
had a 15-5 record with a 3.48 earned run average for the
Milwaukee Brewers and  Los Angeles Angels  in 2012. Over the past
two seasons, he’s 31-11 with a 3.63 ERA.  The roster additions have slashed the Dodgers’ odds of
winning the World Series, making them the joint favorite at 17-2
with the Detroit Tigers and the Washington Nationals, according
to online sportsbook Bovada.lv.  “The Dodgers have been taking the most money from the
public even before signing Greinke, when they were 12-1,”
Bovada.lv sports book manager Kevin Bradley said in an e-mail.  Highest Payrolls  The Yankees, 27-time World Series champions, have had
baseball’s highest opening day payroll every year since 1998,
according to USA Today’s sports salary database. The team co-
owns the YES Network, which began in 2002. The next year it
raised its payroll by $27 million to $152.9 million and hasn’t
been below $180 million since.  “The value attributable to the rights that the Dodgers are
going to be getting financially might look and feel a little bit
like the revenue and cache that the Yankees were able to pick up
via the YES Network,” Carter said. “It does feel like the
Yankees have moved to the West Coast.”  George Steinbrenner  died in July 2010 after using free-
agent spending to build teams that won five World Series
championships from 1996 to 2009. Hal, a self-professed “finance
geek,” is intent on taking the 2014 payroll below the $189
million mark, which would save the Yankees millions in luxury
tax payments that can be as high as 50 percent of the overage
and is distributed to other teams.  Player Development  “I just feel that if you do well on the player-development
side and you have a good farm system, you don’t need a $220
million payroll,” Hal Steinbrenner, the Yankees’ 43-year-old
managing general partner, told reporters in March.  The last time the Yankees’ opening day payroll was less
than $189 million was 2004, at $184.2 million.  “I’m looking at it as a goal, but my goals are normally
considered a requirement,” Steinbrenner said.  The result has been the Yankees’ focus on one-year
contracts, which were given to pitchers Mariano Rivera,  Andy Pettitte  and  Hiroki Kuroda  and outfielder  Brett Gardner . Free-
agent third baseman  Kevin Youkilis  and outfielder Ichiro Suzuki
also have been offered one-year deals, according to MLB.com, and
catcher  Russell Martin  left New York, signing a two-year, $17
million contract with the Pittsburgh Pirates.  The last time the Dodgers had baseball’s highest payroll
was 1989, when their salaries totaled $21.6 million, according
to USA Today. The Yankees’  Alex Rodriguez ,  Mark Teixeira  and CC
Sabathia each made more than that in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  