-- Gross Trims Mortgage Holdings, Treasuries in Flagship Fund
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-12-11T23:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/gross-trims-mortgage-holdings-treasuries-in-flagship-fund-1-.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, reduced his holdings of mortgages last month,
its largest holding, while boosting government agency and non-
U.S. developed market country debt.  Gross cut the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt at Pacific Investment Management Co.’s $285 billion  Total
Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 23 percent of assets last month, from 24 percent
in October, according to a report on the  Newport Beach ,
California-based company’s  website . Mortgages remained the
fund’s largest holding at 44 percent, down from 47 percent a
month earlier. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes
in its portfolio holdings.  The Total Return Fund increased its holdings of non-U.S.
developed nations’ debt to 12 percent in November, from 11
percent the month before. Gross kept the fund’s emerging-market
debt at 8 percent, its municipal bonds holdings at 5 percent and
its investment-grade credit at 11 percent.  High-yield debt fell to 2 percent, from 3 percent in
October.  Treasuries have returned 2.7 percent in 2012, while
mortgages returned 2.6 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. Treasuries comprised 31 percent of the
portfolio in April and were increased to 35 percent during the
next two months before Gross began reducing his stake.  The Total Return Fund gained 10.4 percent this year,
beating 95 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The fund’s government and Treasury debt category includes
fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures and
inflation-protected securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.92 trillion in  assets  as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  