-- Gulf Coast Gasoline Rebounds as Colonial Pipe Starts New Cycle
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h   a n d   J o s h u a   F a l k
-- 2012-12-11T22:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/gulf-coast-gasoline-rebounds-as-colonial-pipe-starts-new-cycle.html
Gulf Coast  spot gasoline prices
rebounded after falling to their biggest discount to futures in
21 years yesterday as Colonial Pipeline Co. began a new shipping
cycle.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline on the U.S. Gulf
strengthened 4.25 cents to a discount of 25.25 cents a gallon to
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 3:39 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The discount hit 29.5 cents a gallon yesterday, the lowest
level since Bloomberg began assessing the grade in May 1991.
Gross inputs of oil to refineries on the Gulf Coast climbed to
8.3 million barrels a day in the week ended Nov. 30, the highest
level since at least 1992, the Energy Department said Dec. 5.  The discount may have been augmented by the fact that it
was the last day of the 69th shipping cycle for Colonial,  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LP in Houston, said in
a phone interview.  “It was precipitated by people liquidating their
inventory,” Lipow said. “Pipeline scheduling was completed for
that cycle. Today we just moved to a different cycle. You might
see Gulf Coast gasoline weaken in the next couple of days as we
move to the scheduling day in the final day of trading.”  Colonial can carry more than 1.4 million barrels of product
a day on its gasoline mainline from Houston to Greensboro,  North
Carolina . The pipeline ships products in five-day cycles that
run back to back. The 70th cycle began today.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel in the Gulf rose 0.25 cent to a
discount of 0.88 cent a gallon to heating oil futures on the
Nymex.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Falk in  New York  at 
 jfalk19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  