-- Michelin-Star Tapas Chefs Move Into Hong Kong High-Rises
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-12-11T16:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/michelin-star-tapas-chefs-move-into-hong-kong-high-rises.html
At the mention of tapas, I think of
gentle Mediterranean breezes, starry skies and plates of
sizzling garlic prawns, spicy chorizo, stuffed peppers and a
Spanish omelet washed down with plenty of vino tinto.  Three new Spanish restaurants, 22 Ships, Boqueria and Vi
Cool, forced me to completely rethink my idea of tapas in a city
as dense and vertical as Hong Kong.  I abandoned thoughts of open-air eating as we rode the
elevator to the seventh floor of LKF Tower and got off at
 Boqueria , the Hong Kong franchise of the New York-based chain.  We were the first to arrive at 6:30 p.m. on a Saturday. The
soft overhead lighting, candles and high stools and open kitchen
created a cozy ambiance.  The sangria was just right, neither too sweet nor overly
spicy. The waiter thoughtfully brought us tiny spoons so we
could scoop out the diced fruit.  Baby Squid  We started with txipirones, a delicious dish of tender baby
squid served in a romesco vinaigrette, tomato confit and crispy
scallions. We wouldn’t let the waiter remove the plate until
we’d mopped up every drop of the sauce with bread.  Next we devoured a plate of Gambas, piping hot shrimp in a
garlic sauce. Calls for more bread and more mopping.  The bombas, a potato croquet filled with minced wagyu beef
with a hint of herbs was exemplary. The tortilla, however, was
wanting.  The pina inopia, slices of fresh pineapple served with
molasses and fresh limes was simple yet sublime. The bill,
including tip, came to HK$1,250 ($161).  Two days later we arrived at 22 Ships around 8:15 pm. It
doesn’t take reservations, yet the 45-minute wait passed quickly
as we were able to consume drinks (delicious sangria with a
healthy froth that made it look like a cocktail) and snacks
standing at a small counter just inside the door. Our excellent
appetizer of peas, broad beans, goats curd and tender Iberico
ham reminded me of the green pea risotto I ate at Gordon Ramsay’s now-closed Maze restaurant in Prague.  Michelin Star  No coincidence there. Jason Atherton, the culinary director
and part-owner of 22 Ships, created Maze for Ramsay before
leaving to open  London ’s Pollen Street Social, a restaurant that
scored him a Michelin star.  22 Ships seats only 35 people, most of them squeezed around
the bar, creating just the right amount of buzz. We got coveted
spots at a counter opening onto the street, which is
surprisingly quiet for the neighborhood.  Our first dish was fried egg with black pudding, capers and
anchovy whose description belied the dish’s lightness. But then
again, I’m a sucker for anything with anchovies.  Next came scallop ceviche with yuzu dressing, soy, cucumber
and apple. My friend moaned in appreciation.  We weren’t as enamored of the salt and pepper squid with
ink aioli, but only because our expectations had been raised so
high by everything we’d tried so far.  They’d run out of the signature dish, char-broiled Iberico
pork and foie gras burgers, so we opted for roasted lamb
cutlets. The meat was thick and tender and perfectly cooked. One
apiece was enough to satisfy our carnivorous cravings.  Delicious Sorbet  The goat’s cheese sorbet was delicious, though my date said
the peanut ice cream with mixed berries tasted even better
during a previous visit.  The bill, without the standard 10 percent service charge in
Hong Kong, came to HK$1,058.  The third leg of our tapas trifecta took us to Vi Cool,
requiring us to navigate the endless corridors of Harbour City
mall in Tsim Sha Tsui.  It’s an odd choice of location for this first Hong Kong
venue by Spaniard Sergi Arola, whose Gastro restaurant in  Madrid 
has two Michelin stars.  He’s unlikely to repeat that success here.  Apart from the good service and one truly excellent dish of
sea bass, mango and avocado ceviche, our meal was just so-so.  The king prawns fried with garlic were too oily, and we
actually left one (of six) on the plate uneaten. The Catalan
sausage pizza with ratatouille, grilled leaks, endive leaves and
buffalo mozzarella was disappointing and the balsamic vinegar
overpowered the fire-smoked eggplant dish.  The dessert of ricotta and berries was about 80 percent
cheese and 20 percent fruit, portions that should have been
reversed. We left more than half the dish unfinished. Total cost
with service came to HK$938.  22 Ships is on 22 Ship Street, Wan Chai. Information:
 http://www.22ships.hk/  or +852 2555 0722.  Boqueria is on the 7th Floor of LKF Tower, 33 Wyndham
Street, Central. Information:  http://www.boqueria.com.hk/  or
+852 2321 8681  Vi Cool is at Level 2, Shop 2101-2, Gateway Arcade, Harbour
City, Canton Rd., Tsim Sha Tsui. Information:
www.diningconcepts.com.hk/vi_cool/ or +852 2735 7787  The Bloomberg Questions  Average cost per person for shared dishes and a couple of
drinks? Vi Cool: HK$500. 22 Ships: HK$600. Boqueria: HK$625.  Sound level? Just the right amount of noise at 22 Ships,
quieter at Boqueria, tomb-like at Vi Cool on a Sunday night.  Inside tip? Avoid weekends at 22 Ships.  Will I be back? Ships 22: Often. Boqueria: Yes, when I’m
really hungry. Vi Cool: Unlikely.  Date place? Boqueria: Yes. 22 Ships: Definitely, the small
space forces you into close contact. Vi Cool: Only if it’s part
of a shopping date.  Rating: 22 Ships: ***, Boqueria ***, Vi Cool *1/2.  Muse highlights include: Mark Beech on CDs and Ryan Sutton
on restaurants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  