-- Michigan's Union Fight Is Between Republicans and Democrats
-- B y   F r a n c i s   W i l k i n s o n
-- 2012-12-11T14:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/michigan-s-union-fight-is-between-republicans-and-democrats.html
With a final vote in the legislature scheduled today, Michigan appears set to
become the nation's 24th  right-to-work state . It would make dues-paying
voluntary for  private-sector unions and for most public-sector unions other
than police and  firefighters. President  Barack Obama  said yesterday that the law would give residents "the
right to work for less money." Union supporters have promised a protest at the
state Capitol. But Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  has said he intends to sign
the law, which is all but certain to pass the Republican-controlled
legislature. Republicans cast the measure as a pro-business initiative, and it is
supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, among other business interests. But
declining union membership, high unemployment and record corporate profits
suggest that unions are not exactly a major drag on American business at the
moment. The move follows an ill-conceived referendum, promoted and financed by unions
themselves, to enshrine collective bargaining rights in the Michigan
constitution. The effort failed at the ballot box in November. That humbling
confirmation of union weakness appears to have been the precipitating event for
the right-to-work legislation. Republicans, ever mindful of the millions that
unions contribute to Democrats each campaign season, would like to gut union
membership and drain union coffers. With groups such as the Chamber of Commerce,
which is as much an arm of the  Republican Party  as the  United Auto Workers  is of
the  Democratic Party , it's likely they view the conflict as Republican vs.
Democrat more than Management vs. Labor. Union leaders have vowed to continue the cycle of retaliation and
recrimination if Snyder signs the right-to-work law. They have even raised the
specter of recalling Republican lawmakers, a  tactic employed earlier this year 
in  Wisconsin  that succeeded largely in adding to the state's oversupply of
bitterness, wasted effort and ill will. It's hard to see what good will come of any of it. Unions, which once covered
about one-third of U.S. workers, have been reeling from the decline of U.S.
manufacturing and their own failures to adapt. They have made large concessions
to Michigan automakers, bringing cost structures in line with nonunion plants in
the South. Once virtually guaranteed middle-class prosperity, many auto factory
workers now "make less than the $19.10 hourly average U.S. manufacturing wage
and lack traditional union retiree benefits,"  Bloomberg News   reported  in
October. In other words, without unions, working class wages decline. With
unions ... wages decline. In 2011, 11.8 percent --  14.8 million Americans  -- were union members. Among
full-time wage and salary workers, union members had  median usual weekly
earnings  of $938 in 2011 compared with $729 for nonunion members. But the
factors influencing that difference are many. It's possible that unions are a relic of an industrial economy that no longer
exists. It's also possible that the wages of U.S. workers won't rise -- or even
stop eroding -- until unions rebound and prod profitable companies to share more
of their proceeds with employees. Unions, workers, employers and politicians
will all have a say in which of those paths, or others, points to the future.
The particular interest of Republican state legislators in winning more
elections shouldn't be a deciding factor in the equation. Snyder didn't ask for the right-to-work legislation and seemed eager to avoid
the confrontation. He had previously  vetoed voter ID bills  in his state with
similarly partisan aims. It took courage, and a strong sense of fair play, for a
Republican governor to do that. Perhaps it's too much to expect a politician to
be a hero twice. (Francis Wilkinson is a member of the Bloomberg View editorial board.  Follow 
him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at the  Ticker .    