-- Michigan Governor Snyder Signs Ban on Mandatory Union Dues
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-12-11T23:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/michigan-governor-snyder-signs-ban-on-mandatory-union-dues-1-.html
Republican Governor  Rick Snyder 
signed bills banning mandatory union dues in Michigan
workplaces, making it the 24th U.S. state to enact so-called
right-to-work legislation.  “I don’t view this as anti-union,” he said today at a
news briefing in Lansing. “This is pro-worker.”  Bundled-up protesters had converged on the statehouse as
lawmakers debated the bills for the home of the  United Auto
Workers  and the three largest U.S. automakers. The passage of
the measures is a practical and symbolic rout in a stronghold of
organized labor in the U.S., and opponents said it presaged
political warfare.  “There will be blood,” Representative Douglas Geiss, a
Democrat from Taylor, said during debate in the House of
Representatives.  Outside the Capitol, supporters and opponents clashed, with
protesters tearing down a tent set up by Americans for
Prosperity, an organization supported by billionaires Charles
and  David Koch . They overturned tables and stamped on signs with
slogans such as “Stop feeding the union pigs.”  Police on foot and horseback charged through the crowd,
pushing them back with batons.  ‘Civil War’  Bill Bagwell, a 55-year-old UAW member from Westland, said
the measure would create friction at his  General Motors Co. (GM) 
plant in Ypsilanti. Members who pay union dues would detest
those who enjoy the benefits of the contract but don’t
contribute, he said.  “It’ll create civil war,” Bagwell said.  Michigan’s push for the laws, which exclude police and
firefighters, began last week, when Snyder ended more than a
year of neutrality and declared he would sign the legislation.
Hours later, it won initial approval in the  House of
Representatives  and Senate with no hearings.  Democrats failed to strip from the bills a $1 million
appropriation to administer the measures. The inclusion of the
money will shield the laws from a referendum to repeal them.  Supporters say right-to-work laws give workers the option
of withholding support from unions they view as ineffective or
politically objectionable.  “Unions will be more responsive and more jobs will come to
Michigan,” Snyder said at the briefing. “I try to do what’s
best for the citizens of Michigan.”  Last Straw  The dues issue came to a head after unions spent $23
million in an unsuccessful campaign to enshrine collective-
bargaining rights in the state constitution with a ballot
measure in November. Snyder had asked union leaders not to seek
the constitutional amendment, and he campaigned against it,
saying it would undo efforts to rein in employee costs.  President  Barack Obama , who was the beneficiary of union
contributions in his re-election campaign this year, said
yesterday in a visit to Michigan that “we don’t want a race to
the bottom.”  “What they’re really talking about is giving you the right
to work for less money,” Obama told workers at the Detroit
Diesel plant.  The events in Michigan, with a history of combative
organizing and powerful ties to the UAW and International
Brotherhood of Teamsters, are watched by unions as a possible
harbinger of similar campaigns in other states. Opponents say
the laws are an attempt to strip unions of money used not only
to bargain with management but to support political campaigns.  About 17 percent of  Michigan ’s workforce belongs to unions,
according to the U.S. Department of Labor. In the early 1960s,
about 40 percent did.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in Lansing at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  