-- Microsoft, Porsche, Heineken: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-12-11T20:29:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/microsoft-porsche-heineken-intellectual-property.html
(Corrects Pirate Bay copyright item to delete reference to
court order.)  Microsoft Corp., the world’s biggest
software maker, asked a U.K. judge to invalidate Motorola
Mobility’s European patent protection for synchronizing message
statuses across multiple devices.  Microsoft sued Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility last
December in a preemptive challenge to a 2002 patent it claims
shouldn’t have been issued because the technology was obvious to
experts in the field at the time, Microsoft’s lawyers said at a
weeklong trial scheduled to end yesterday in London.  “We’re grateful for the chance to demonstrate that
Motorola’s claims based on this patent are unfounded,”  David
Howard , a deputy general counsel at Microsoft, said in an e-mail
statement about the latest salvo in a global dispute.  The companies are locked in legal battles over patents for
smartphone technology and Xbox gaming software in the U.S. and
Germany. Microsoft claims all devices that run on Google’s
Android operating system use its technology and is seeking
royalties from Motorola Mobility. Motorola Mobility, which
 Mountain View , California-based Google acquired in May, says it
is owed royalties on the Xbox for use of the company’s Wi-Fi and
video-compression technology.  Motorola’s lawyer, Zoe Butler of Powell Gilbert in London,
declined to comment. The company’s press office didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message.  While the patent in the U.K. trial relates to pager
technology from the 1990s, the arguments center on its
application to newer mobile devices and computers.  The case is running parallel to Motorola’s lawsuit against
Microsoft over the same patent in Germany, where the companies
are awaiting a decision from a judge. Google has said it bought
Motorola Mobility in part because of its patents and history of
innovation in mobile phones.  The case is Microsoft Corporation v. Motorola Mobility
Inc., HC11C04536,  High Court  of London,  Chancery Division 
(London).  Apple-Google Team Up for $500 Million-Plus Kodak Patents Bid  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Google Inc. have joined forces to offer more
than $500 million to buy  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) ’s patents out of
bankruptcy, said people familiar with the situation.  The two companies, competing for dominance of the
smartphone market, have partnered after leading two separate
groups this summer to buy some of Kodak’s 1,100 imaging patents,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
process is private.  Unlikely partnerships are typical in patent sales because
they allow competitors to neutralize potential infringement
litigation. A group including Apple,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
Research in Motion Ltd. bought Nortel Networks Corp.’s more than
6,000 patents for $4.5 billion out of bankruptcy last year.
Google lost the auction for those patents after making an
initial offer of $900 million.  The Apple-led group pursuing Kodak’s patents included
Microsoft and Intellectual Ventures Management LLC as of July,
the people said, while Google’s partners included patent-
aggregation company RPX Corp. and Asian makers of Google’s
Android phones. The two groups had separately offered less than
$500 million for Kodak’s portfolio. They now teamed up to offer
more together, said two of the people.  Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for Mountain View, California-
based Google, said the company doesn’t comment on rumor or
speculation.  Christopher Veronda , a spokesman for Rochester, New
York-based Kodak, declined to comment on the patent sale, citing
a court-ordered confidentiality agreement. Kristin Huguet, a
spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, declined to
comment.  The patents for sale relate to the capture, manipulation
and sharing of digital images. Kodak is selling them to fund a
turnaround after seeking Chapter 11 protection in January. At
the same time, it’s pursuing a plan to shrink the company and
focus less on photography and more on commercial, packaging and
functional printing and enterprise services.  In court documents, Kodak has said the patents may be worth
$2.21 billion to $2.57 billion, based on an estimate by patent
advisory firm 284 Partners LLC. Kodak said it has generated more
than $3 billion in revenue by licensing some of the digital-
imaging patents to users, including Samsung Electronics Co., LG
Electronics Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit and Nokia
Oyj.  “The portfolio is actually worth much less because it has
been widely licensed,” said Richard Ehrlickman, former vice
president of  Intellectual Property  at International Business
Machines Corp. and president of IPofferings, a patent brokerage
and consulting company in Boca Raton, Florida.  The 132-year-old photography company listed $5.1 billion in
assets and $6.75 billion in debt in its bankruptcy filing. It
plans to exit bankruptcy in the first half of 2013.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Matthew Inman Sued by Excelsior Printing Over ‘Oatmeal’ Marks  Matthew Inman , the Seattle-based computer programmer who
posts cartoons and humorous commentary on his “The Oatmeal”
website, was sued for trademark infringement by a Massachusetts
printing company.  His website gets more than 2 million page views a month,
and Inman is the author of “5 Very Good Reasons to Punch a
Dolphin in the Mouth” and the “How to Tell If Your Cat Is
Planning to Kill You” calendar.  Co-defendant with Inman is  Papyrus-Recycled Greetings Inc. 
of Chicago, the publisher of greeting cards based on Inman’s
cartoons.  According to court papers, Excelsior Printing Co. of North
Adams, Massachusetts, bought Oatmeal Studios Inc. in January
2011. The acquired company had produced greeting cards and other
items under the “Oatmeal Studios” for more than 35 years, and
Excelsior says it continues in the use of the mark and the
greeting card business.  The products are promoted through the oatmealstudios.com
website, Excelsior said.  The company objects to the items produced by Papyrus-
Recycled that are sold under “The Oatmeal” name. It says
customers are likely to assume mistakenly that an affiliation
exists between its products and Inman’s “The Oatmeal”
merchandise.  Excelsior asked the court to bar further infringement of
its trademarks, and for awards of money damages, attorney fees
and litigation costs. The printing company also requested that
the damages be tripled to punish the defendants for their
actions.  Neither Inman nor Papyrus-Recycled responded immediately to
an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Excelsior Printing Co. v. Matthew Inman, 3:12-
cv-30200, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Springfield).  Porsche’s ‘919’ Trademark Application May Hint at New Model  Porsche Automobil Holding SE (PAH3) , the Stuttgart, Germany-based
maker of luxury cars, has applied to register “919” as a
trademark in Germany, the Motorward.com automotive news website
 reported .  According to the website, while Porsche doesn’t comment on
future activities, there is speculation in the automotive world
that this mark will be used for a new sports vehicle to compete
with Ferrari SpA’s  458 Italia .  Heineken Wins Dismissal of Appeal of Russian Trademark Ruling  Heineken NV (HEIA) ’s Heineken Ceska unit has prevailed in a
trademark dispute over unauthorized imports of its products into
Russia, the Russian Legal Information Agency has  reported .  The Netherlands-based brewer persuaded Russia’s Supreme
Commercial Court to deny Elitvoda.Ru’s appeal of a ruling
awarding Heineken damages for importing Heineken’s Krusivice
beers into the country without permission, according to the  news
agency .  Heineken acknowledged that the goods were legitimate, but
had argued that under Russia law, trademark goods can’t be
imported without the consent of the trademark owner, according
to the news agency.  The Dutch brewery, which has several Russian units, had
argued that unauthorized shipments of trademarked goods must be
seized by customs, the news agency reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Mattel Returns to Appeals Panel That Threw Out Bratz Verdict  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  is asking the same appeals court panel that two
years ago concluded the Barbie doll would thrive on competition
to now reverse a $310 million jury verdict won by Bratz
dollmaker MGA Entertainment Inc.  Mattel was scheduled to present its case yesterday in
Pasadena, California, before the three-judge U.S Court of
Appeals panel that undid Mattel’s earlier trial victory giving
the company almost complete ownership of its rival’s Bratz
dolls. The panel ruled then that the world’s largest toymaker
couldn’t claim a monopoly “over fashion dolls with a bratty
look or attitude.”  This time, El Segundo, California-based Mattel no longer
argues, after two trials and more than eight years of
litigation, that MGA infringes its copyright because the first
Bratz sketches were made by a Mattel designer. Mattel now
contends the “jaw-dropping” $137.2 million in legal fees it
was ordered to pay MGA for having to defend the copyright claim
is unjustified.  “Mattel knows of no copyright fee and cost award that was
similarly shifted on a claim that had been successful before one
jury, had resulted in substantial relief from a federal district
judge, and was remanded by a court of appeals before being
unsuccessful before a second jury,” the company said in its
Feb. 27 appeal.  In 2010, the appeals court panel said that, even if Mattel
were to convince a jury that it owned the original Bratz
sketches made by its former employee,  Carter Bryant , it would
only entitle it to ownership of that particular expression of
the bratty-doll type, not to the idea itself. That decision
overturned a $100 million jury verdict.  A jury in Santa Ana, California, last year rejected
Mattel’s claim that MGA stole the idea for Bratz dolls. It also
found Mattel liable for stealing MGA’s trade secrets and awarded
closely held MGA $88.5 million.  U.S. District Judge  David Carter , who reduced that verdict
to $85 million, later added $85 million in punitive damages.  Carter also awarded MGA $2.52 million in fees and costs for
its trade-secret claim, in addition to $105.6 million in lawyer
fees and $31.6 million in costs for Mattel’s copyright claim,
which the judge said “imperiled free expression, competition,
and the only serious competitor Mattel had faced in the fashion
doll market in nearly 50 years.”  MGA, based in Van Nuys, California, said the $310 million
verdict is “but a drop in the bucket” compared to the harm
Mattel caused MGA through “its litigation strategy of
destroying Bratz.”  The case is Mattel Inc. v. MGA Entertainment Inc.,
11-56357,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit ( San
Francisco ).  U.K. Pirate Party Prepares for Copyright Suit From BPI  The U.K. branch of the Pirate Party, the international
political group opposed to many copyright restrictions, has
refused a request from an organization representing content
owners to take down a proxy server leading to the  Pirate Bay 
website which has been implicated in illegal downloading cases,
TechWeek Europe  reported .  British Phonographic Industry , which represents music
copyright holders, had asked the  U.K. Pirate Party  to take down
the site in November at the risk of being sued, according to
TechWeek Europe.  The Pirate Party has responded to the request by saying
that “Censorship is never the right answer,” and if it has to
go to court, it will argue that this kind of blockage does
“irreparable harm” to search engines, service providers and
others, TechWeek Europe reported.  Alexa , a Web metrics company, reported that the U.K. Pirate
Party’s proxy site is the 140th most visited Internet
destination in that country, according to TechWeek Europe.  Pirate Party UK “has never been issued a court order to
take down our Pirate Bay proxy, much less refused to comply with
one,” spokesman Jack Allnutt said in an e-mailed statement.  VimpelCom Sued Over Copyright by Russian Music Publisher  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , the Netherlands-based telecommunications
company, was sued for copyright infringement by a unit of
Russia’s  Gala Records , the Moscow Times  reported .  The suit, filed in Moscow Arbitration Court, relates to
what the music publisher says is unauthorized use of one of its
songs in a VimpelCom ad campaign last summer, according to the
newspaper.  A spokeswoman for VimpelCom told the Moscow Times that the
company didn’t post to the Internet the video in which the song
was performed, and that it was footage of a singer performing at
a company promotional event.  The music publisher is seeking damages of 500,000 rubles
($16,268) in compensation, according to the Moscow Times.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 