-- Microsoft Increases Surface Production, Retail Outlets
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-12-12T00:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/microsoft-increases-production-of-surface-expands-distribution.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said it has boosted
the production of its Surface RT tablet computer and will make
the device available at more retail stores.  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  and
 Best Buy Co. (BBY)  will start sales tomorrow.  Customers will be able to buy the Surface running Windows
RT software, an update to the company’s flagship operating
system, at an expanded list of retail stores in the U.S. and
Australia “as early as mid-December,” Microsoft said today in
a statement. The Redmond, Washington-based company also will
extend its Microsoft holiday stores, including turning some of
the temporary outlets into permanent ones.  Microsoft has been selling the devices since Oct. 26 only
at its more than 60 retail locations in the U.S. and  Canada , and
online in seven countries. The company has declined to provide
sales numbers, leading some analysts to express concern demand
might be falling short.  Best Buy said it will offer Surface tablets online from
tomorrow, and in some retail outlets starting Dec. 16.  With the added distribution, Microsoft should sell about a
million units this quarter, according to Rick Sherlund, an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  Additional retailers will be added in “a number of
countries in the coming months,” Microsoft said in the
statement. The company didn’t elaborate or say how much it
expanded production.  Microsoft said last month that it will introduce a new
model of the device, the Surface Pro, in January. That device
features an  Intel Corp. (INTC)  i5 processor. Microsoft may release a
version with Intel’s Clover Trail chip, which would offer better
battery life and performance, “perhaps by March,” Sherlund
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  