-- Tightest Corn Crop Since ‘74 as Goldman Sees Rally: Commodities
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-12-11T22:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/tightest-corn-crop-since-74-as-goldman-sees-rally-commodities.html
Three consecutive years of smaller
U.S. corn harvests are driving inventories of the world’s most-
consumed grain to a 39-year low and spurring Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to predict that prices will rise near record highs.  Global stockpiles will drop 11 percent to 117.61 million
metric tons by Oct. 1, or 13.6 percent of what will be used for
food, ethanol and livestock feed, the lowest ratio since 1974,
the U.S. Department of Agriculture said today in a report.  Prices surged 44 percent since mid-June as U.S. farmers
endured their worst drought in 56 years, and heat waves and dry
weather seared crops from  Australia  to  Europe . While futures
fell 14 percent since reaching a record $8.49 a bushel on Aug.
10, tightening supply before next year’s harvest will drive
prices to an average of $8.25 in the next six months, 13 percent
higher than today, Goldman said in a Dec. 5 report.  “It will take more than one year of good weather and high
yields to dig the world out of this supply hole,” said Peter Meyer, a senior director of agriculture commodities at PIRA
Energy Group in New York. “While corn prices may not spike,
they will remain well supported until the extreme moisture
deficits in the U.S. are rectified.”  Grain Rally  Corn fell 0.3 percent at close at $7.28 2 p.m. on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade, paring this year’s rally to 13 percent.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight
commodities gained 7.7 percent since the start of 2012, while
the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities advanced 13
percent. A Bank of America Corp. index shows Treasuries returned
2.8 percent.  Production in the U.S., which accounted for 32 percent of
world supply this year, fell 13 percent to 272.4 million tons,
the smallest harvest since 2006, the USDA said Nov. 9. That’s 18
percent less than the record 332.5 million tons in 2009 after
dry weather in 2010 and heat waves last year.  Global consumption will exceed supply for the second time
in three years, even as a faltering economy erodes demand by 1.7
percent to 862.52 million tons in the season ending Oct. 1,
according to the USDA. While that would be the first drop since
1995, the decline in production will be even steeper, retreating
3.7 percent to 849.09 million tons, the agency said.  Prices will reach $7.85 in six months because inventories
are “precariously low,”  Hussein Allidina , the head of
commodity research at Morgan Stanley in New York, wrote in a
Dec. 5 report.  ‘Corn Overvalued’  Futures are headed for a record annual average this year,
and that should spur farmers to sow more crops. Informa
Economics Ltd., a Memphis, Tennessee-based research company,
predicted Nov. 2 that global production will jump 14 percent to
a record 950.7 million tons next year.  If the weather returns to normal, futures for December
2013, after the U.S. harvest, may be as much 37 percent
overvalued, Chris Gadd, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
 London , said in a report Dec. 6. Gadd predicted the contract may
drop as low as $4, compared with $6.2775 today.  “We are just one crop away from a substantial increase in
supplies,” Douglas Carper, the principal of Omaha, Nebraska-
based DEC Capital Inc., a commodity trading adviser and
consultant to hedge funds. “If we have a widespread moisture
event over the heart of the Corn Belt between now and April,
there would be an epiphany that would sweep over folks.”  Dry Weather  More than 56 percent of the nine-state Midwest region where
most of the crop is grown had moderate to exceptional  drought  by
Dec. 4, compared with 15 percent a year earlier, according to
the U.S. Drought Monitor. That reduced the level of the
Mississippi River, delaying barges carrying grain to Gulf of
Mexico ports and export markets.  Hedge funds and other speculators boosted their net-long
positions, or bets on higher prices, for three weeks and are the
most bullish on corn since Oct. 23, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show.  Global inventories may not get the expected boost in
February from  Argentina  and  Brazil , the biggest exporters after
the U.S. Flooding led farmers in Argentina to plant 10 percent
fewer acres than expected, which means output may total 22.5
million tons, below the USDA’s estimate of 27.5 million, said
Michael Cordonnier, the publisher of the Soybean & Corn Advisor
in Hinsdale,  Illinois . In Brazil, dry weather may cut output to
70 million tons from 73 million a year ago, he said.  Demand Outlook  Demand for corn to feed livestock and make ethanol may not
be slowing as much as the USDA expects. Hog farmers kept buying
corn even as prices topped $8 because they were hedging some of
their costs, Larry Pope, the chief executive officer of
 Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the largest pork producer, said on a Dec.
6 conference call with analysts. Hog herds expanded about 4
percent in the three months ended Oct. 28, he said.  U.S. red-meat production jumped 7.2 percent to 4.579
billion pounds in October, and pork output gained 8.7 percent to
2.21 billion pounds, the highest ever for the month, government
 data  show. Supplies of young chickens rose 7.5 percent and
turkey 9.9 percent, the USDA said in a Nov. 26  report .  Domestic corn inventories before the 2013 harvest may fall
to 546 million bushels, below last month’s USDA forecast of 647
million bushels, said  Dan Cekander , the director of grain-market
analysis at Newedge USA LLC in Chicago. The increase in feed
demand during the three months ended Dec. 1 probably won’t
appear in USDA data until the Jan. 11 report, he said.  Fuel Use  Ethanol distillers, who used 41 percent of the U.S. crop
last year, boosted  production  by 4 percent in the week ended
Nov. 30, the biggest gain in 14 months and the highest output
since the end of June, Energy Department data show.  A reliance on crops to make fuel and expanding economic
growth will keep grain inventories tight and contribute to a
“new norm” of high food prices over the next two decades, the
World Bank said in a Nov. 27 report. Risks to supply are
increasing at a time when 12 percent of the world population
remains chronically undernourished, the bank said.  World food prices, while down 11 percent from a record in
February 2011, were the highest ever on average during the past
two years and more than doubled in the past decade, according to
the United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization in  Rome .  “People and animals continue to eat,” said Sal Gilbertie,
who helps manage $69 million of assets as president and chief
investment officer of Teucrium Trading LLC in Santa Fe, New
Mexico. “Everything in grocery stores is made from corn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  