-- IMF, World Bank to Conclude First Vietnam Financial Analysis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-11T08:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/imf-world-bank-to-conclude-first-vietnam-financial-analysis-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund  and
World Bank expect to conclude next year their first analysis of
Vietnam’s financial system, which may bolster government efforts
to strengthen the banking sector and boost investor confidence.  The Financial Sector Assessment Program gauges the
stability of a country’s financial system and identifies
vulnerabilities that could trigger a crisis, via measures such
as stress tests, according to a  posting  on the IMF website. It
also examines the nation’s legal framework and financial
infrastructure, such as its payments and settlements system.  The health of Vietnam’s banking system is a growing concern,
with asset quality deteriorating and “delayed and inadequate”
implementation of restructuring, the World Bank said yesterday.
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the nation’s credit rating
in September, citing concerns that weaknesses in the banking
sector may damage the government’s balance sheet.  “Many people, including other international financial
institutions, have asked for more complete information on
Vietnam’s banks and state-owned enterprises,” Sanjay Kalra, the
IMF’s senior resident representative in Hanoi, said in an
interview yesterday. “We are very encouraged by the decision of
the government to participate in this program.”  Restructuring of state-owned companies is one of three
areas of focus over the next five years, the ruling Communist
Party said last year. The  World Bank  said yesterday that
“limited progress” has been made, and that their
inefficiencies are “a drag on long-term growth potential.”  ‘Concrete’ Reforms  “State-owned enterprises are important borrowers of the
banks, and we have not yet seen adequate information about these
borrowers,” Kalra said. The assessment will clear the way for
“concrete reforms that can create a sound and healthy financial
sector,” he said yesterday in a statement in Hanoi.  An initial mission came to Vietnam in the fourth quarter
and a follow-up is planned for January, Kalra said. The
assessment is expected to be completed in the first half of next
year, and a decision on whether to publish it would be left to
the Vietnamese government, he said.  The World Bank will encourage the government “to not be
afraid to be public with it,” said Victoria Kwakwa, the
lender’s country director in  Vietnam .  “We will try and encourage them,” Kwakwa said in an
interview today. “It’s good for them on the transparency front,
and it will remove some of the question marks about Vietnam.”  --Jason Folkmanis in Hanoi. Editors: Rina Chandran, Oanh Ha  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Hanoi at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  