-- India Anti-Inflation Dividend From Retail Seen Delayed: Economy
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-12-11T07:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/india-anti-inflation-dividend-from-retail-seen-delayed-economy.html
India ’s move to open its retail
industry to the world’s biggest operators may take years to
achieve the levels of investment that will reduce inflation, as
infrastructure gaps restrain store expansions.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government last week won
parliamentary endorsement for its September decision to allow
foreign direct investment in supermarkets, a move it says can
help lower food prices should retailers like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
and Carrefour SA build warehouses and cold storage facilities to
improve the supply chain.  Overseas retailers will still be beset by congested roads,
erratic power supplies and an array of taxes that hamper the
movement of goods between 28 states. The likelihood that
benefits from the retail opening will be delayed reinforces the
need for deeper policy changes to address transportation and
energy bottlenecks that are handicapping growth.  “It will take time for all the feasibility studies to be
done for investment to come in,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde ,
an economist in  Singapore  at Credit Suisse Group AG who has
covered the Indian economy for almost seven years. “One
shouldn’t expect to see any effects for two years or so and even
then it will be very gradual.”  The nation’s benchmark  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  has risen
4.1 percent in the past month, holding near a 19-month high on
speculation the government will take more steps to boost growth
and investment.  ‘Dire Need’  Singh’s challenge is to push through the remaining measures
of his economic agenda, such as the creation of a National
Investment Board to speed up project approvals, in the months
before national elections due in 2014.  “The reforms overhaul is part of the government’s effort
to overturn the economic slowdown,” said N.R. Bhanumurthy, an
economist at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy
in New Delhi. “The pace is largely dictated with an eye on
elections and also by the fact that the economy is in dire need
of intervention.”  The rupee is among the worst performing Asian currencies
this year as Singh’s push to lure more foreign investors has
been hurt by the widest  budget deficit  in major emerging nations
and months of policy gridlock earlier in the year. At the same
time, inflation exceeding 7 percent limits room for interest-
rate cuts by the central bank.  Asia ’s third-largest  economy  expanded 5.3 percent in the
three months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, slowing to
match a three-year low as growth in domestic spending and
exports moderated. The trade deficit held near the widest in
more than 18 years in November as exports fell for a seventh
month, according to figures released by the director general of
foreign trade today.  Retail Market  “I don’t think FDI in retail will have an immediate impact
on growth or inflation,” said Samiran Chakraborty, an economist
at  Standard Chartered  Plc. in Mumbai. “FDI in retail will have
to assume a substantial portion of the total retail market in
India to meaningfully change the modes of back-end operation.”  Singh is trying to reinvigorate growth as the faltering
global economy threatens the outlook for Asia-Pacific nations
even with signs of recovery in  China . Australian business
confidence plunged last month to the lowest level since 2009, a
private survey showed today, while the  Philippines  reported
exports climbed for a second month in October.  Indonesia ’s central bank kept its  benchmark interest rate 
unchanged for a 10th month today. In  Germany , the ZEW Center for
European Economic Research may report its index of investor and
analyst expectations was negative for a seventh month in
December, a Bloomberg survey showed.  No Applications  U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers begin a two-day meeting
today that will be followed by updated projections on economic
growth, unemployment, inflation and  interest rates  on Dec. 12.
Officials are considering whether to supplement $40 billion a
month of mortgage-bond buying with Treasury purchases when their
Operation Twist program expires at the end of the month. Reports
on the  trade balance  and small business optimism are due today.  The retail rule change, the key plank of India’s biggest
embrace of foreign investment in a decade, has yet to lure
formal applications by a major retailer to operate in India in
the three months since it was announced. While Singh’s Sept. 14
decision to allow overseas multi-brand retailers to invest 51
percent in Indian ventures didn’t require parliamentary approval
to become law, the government agreed to a vote to end protests
that had stalled legislative business.  Both houses of the Indian parliament endorsed the decision
last week, paving the way for companies such as Wal-Mart,
Carrefour and Tesco Plc to step up their presence in the world’s
second-most populous nation and tap a market that Technopak
Advisors Pvt. estimates will expand to $725 billion by 2017.  Power Deficit  Standing in the way is India’s struggle to upgrade its more
than 4 million kilometers (2.5 million miles) of roads, close a
9 percent power deficit and ease congestion at ports.
Restrictions on store locations and investment rules are another
restraint.  Foreign companies will be required to invest a minimum of
$100 million, with half being used to build facilities such as
manufacturing, distribution and warehouses within the first
three years of their foray, India’s Department of Industrial
Policy & Promotion said in September. Stores will be permitted
in states where the local government gives its consent and in
cities with a population of more than 1 million people.  Still, the retail victory may strengthen Singh’s resolve to
overcome opposition to his plans to allow foreign companies to
hold bigger stakes in insurance firms and for the first time
permit overseas investment in pension funds. These two decisions
need parliamentary approval.  Right Direction  “The vote was more a barometer on the government’s resolve
to push ahead more contentious reforms,” said Chakraborty at
Standard Chartered. “In that sense, it is a step in the right
direction.”  India will set up a panel led by Prime Minister Singh to
speed up approval of road, rail and port projects, including as
much as $18 billion of stalled investments, two officials with
knowledge of the proposal said last month.  “All in all, this is a big positive for the economy and
ultimately for the consumer,” said Leif Eskesen, Singapore-
based chief India and Southeast Asia economist for HSBC Holdings
Plc. who previously worked for the  International Monetary Fund ,
referring to the retail law. “But you need FDIs first and that
would require a couple of years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  