-- Indonesia Holds Key Rate to Shield Rupiah at Three-Year Low
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-12-11T10:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/indonesia-holds-key-rate-to-shield-currency-at-three-year-low.html
Indonesia’s central bank held its
benchmark rate unchanged for a 10th straight meeting as its
currency near a three-year low reduces scope for monetary easing.  Bank Indonesia  Governor Darmin Nasution and his board kept
the  reference rate  at a record-low 5.75 percent, the central
bank said in Jakarta today. The decision was predicted by all 21
economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News .  The rupiah has dropped more than 6.5 percent against the
dollar in the past year as rising imports and declining exports
led to a widening current-account deficit and $1.5 billion  trade
gap  in October. The central bank has refrained from joining
neighbors from  Thailand  to the  Philippines  in extending rate
cuts since a February reduction to support the currency and as
growth exceeding 6 percent eased the need for stimulus.  “The rupiah may weaken sharply beyond manageable levels if
Bank Indonesia lowered the rate, even if it has room due to
stable inflation,” said Leo Rinaldy, an economist at PT Mandiri
Sekuritas in Jakarta. “Bank Indonesia’s stance will still be
accommodative to economic growth, but if a worsening current-
account deficit results in a sharp weakening in the  exchange
rate ,” policy makers may raise the deposit facility rate next
year, he said.  The rupiah dropped 0.4 percent to 9,665 per dollar as of
5:22 p.m. in Jakarta. The Jakarta Composite Index rose 0.4
percent.  Fasbi Rate  Policy makers have signaled the need to boost short-term
borrowing costs to support the currency. Bank Indonesia
increased the rate it pays lenders on overnight deposits, known
as the Fasbi, in August to 4 percent from 3.75 percent.  The central bank may “gradually” raise the Fasbi rate to
help reduce volatility in the currency that may hurt investor
confidence, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said in a Nov. 9
interview in Jakarta.  Bank Indonesia didn’t see the need to increase the Fasbi
rate today as the rupiah is stable and inflation remains
manageable, Perry Warjiyo,  executive director  for economic
research and  monetary policy  at the central bank, said on a
conference call today.  There’s no pressure to adjust the main  reference rate  in
the next three to six months, because it is still “consistent”
with the inflation target, Sarwono said last month.  Ongoing Weakness  “The ongoing weakness in the rupiah will likely deter any
near-term rate cuts,”  Fred Gibson , an associate economist at
Moody’s Analytics in Sydney, said before the decision.
“Monetary policy remains in a sweet spot as the economy
continues to expand around trend, while inflation remains within
the central bank’s” target, he said.  Consumer price gains  slowed in November, as the index
climbed 4.32 percent from a year earlier, after a 4.61 percent
gain in October, the statistics bureau said last week. Consumer
prices may rise 4.2 percent to 4.3 percent this year, Bank
Indonesia said today.  While the central bank maintained its inflation target rate
of about 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent for next year, price
pressures may escalate in  Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy amid
a planned increase in electricity tariffs and a possible
reduction in fuel subsidies. Consumer prices may rise 4.9
percent in 2013, Warjiyo said.  Wage Pressures  “A hike in the BI reference rate may become necessary in
the second quarter of 2013 as wage pressures rise, and
government regulated electricity tariffs are adjusted upward,”
said  Aninda Mitra , an economist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “These hikes are designed to
limit the subsidy bill, and could be accompanied by increases in
train ticket prices, as well as subsidized fuel prices.”  Domestic consumption and rising investment has countered an
export slump. The  economy grew  6.17 percent in the three months
ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier. The expansion may be 6.2
percent this quarter and 6.3 percent for 2012, the central bank
said today. Growth may accelerate to 6.5 percent next year,
Warjiyo said.  Indonesia’s October trade deficit may have been the biggest
on record, the statistics bureau said Dec. 3. It was caused by a
surge in imports due to plane and oil purchases, it said.
Exports have dropped for seven consecutive months, the longest
string of losses since 2009.  The country’s  current-account  shortfall this year may be
2.4 percent of its gross domestic product, the central bank said
today, wider than the 2.2 percent deficit predicted by Nasution
last week. The gap would be the largest since 1996.  Indonesia 
has recorded a current-account  deficit  for the past four
quarters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  