-- Ignition-Lock Push in U.S. Opposed by Restaurant Group
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/interlocks-proposed-in-u-s-for-first-time-drunk-drivers.html
A U.S. transportation safety board
squared off against a restaurant-industry organization when it
recommended making all drunken-driving offenders use devices
that keep an intoxicated person from starting a car.  The National Transportation Safety Board yesterday called
for requirements throughout the U.S. for devices, known as
ignition interlocks, which are now mandatory for all offenders
in about one-third of the states. The NTSB, which lacks
enforcement power, previously recommended their use only when
drivers’ blood-alcohol content was more than twice the legal
limit.  The recommendation was questioned by the American Beverage
Institute, a group whose members include chain restaurants. It
says ignition locks should be required only for repeat offenders
or drivers charged with having a blood-alcohol content of at
least 0.15 percent. The legal limit in most states is 0.08
percent.  “We don’t believe in a one-size-fits-all penalty that
penalizes somebody one drink over the legal limit the same way
as someone who’s a .19,” said Sarah Longwell, managing director
of the group. “We believe judicial discretion should be
applied.”  The Washington-based group, which doesn’t disclose its
members, “protects the on-premise dining experience and defends
the right to drink moderately and responsibly prior to
driving,” according to its website.  ‘Extremely Useful’  The group, run by public relations executive Rick Berman,
says restaurant sales of alcoholic beverages would be reduced by
broader requirements for ignition interlocks or other alcohol-
sensing technologies now being tested in cars, which the NTSB
also endorsed yesterday.  Ignition interlocks force drivers to test their breath by
blowing into a tube to prove they aren’t drunk before a car will
start.  The agency’s recommendation “will be extremely useful in
convincing state legislatures to pass ignition interlock
bills,” said Jackie Gillan, president of Washington-based
Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety. “NTSB is a respected and
revered organization on safety issues and this can only help.”  The safety board’s recommendation will be influential as
more states debate tougher drunk-driving laws in 2013, said
 David Kelly , executive director of the Coalition of Ignition
Interlock Manufacturers.  Highway Bill  “States have a golden opportunity to use the provisions of
MAP-21 to redefine their impaired driving programs and hopefully
these new NTSB recommendations will help build that case,” he
said, referring to the U.S. highway bill passed by Congress
earlier this year.  The legislation offers U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration grants to states that have or pass laws requiring
ignition interlocks for drivers after their first driving-while-
intoxicated offense. Seventeen states now require them.  The devices are made for the U.S. market by companies
including Draegerwerk AG & Co., a German manufacturer of medical
and safety equipment, and closely held Smart Start Inc.,
TruTouch Technologies Inc. and Guardian Interlock Systems.  The safety board described as “promising” a research
project funded by automakers and highway-safety regulators to
passively detect whether a driver is drunk. Such a system may
measure a driver’s blood-alcohol content through fingertip
sensors on the steering wheel or through ambient breath
measurements that don’t require a person to blow into a tube.  Wrong-Way Crashes  Installing such systems as original equipment in cars would
effectively put an interlock on every vehicle and could have
4,000 false positives a day even if the systems operate at near
100 percent accuracy, Longwell, of the beverage group, said in
an interview.  The safety board call to require interlock devices was part
of a package of recommendations yesterday that are aimed at
reducing crashes caused by wrong-way drivers on highways.  Wrong-way collisions kill an average of 360 people a year
in the U.S., according to the board. About 60 percent of crashes
with a driver going the wrong way down a road involve alcohol.  “Wrong-way accidents are among the most deadly types of
motor accidents,” NTSB Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said yesterday
at a hearing in Washington. “They usually occur at high speed
and are primarily head-on collisions.”  ‘Final Piece’  Mothers Against Drunk Driving has called for mandatory
interlocks for first-time offenders since 2006 and praised the
safety board’s action.  “The NTSB is really the final piece of the puzzle for
major highway safety players that we’ve looked for to endorse
our campaign,” said J.T. Griffin, senior vice president of
public policy for the advocacy group, based in Irving,  Texas .
“With the addition of ignition interlocks and with the addition
of advanced technology, the NTSB has really fully endorsed our
campaign.”  “The fact is, .08 is a generous amount of alcohol” and
wouldn’t prevent someone from legally driving after having an
alcoholic drink, Griffin said in an interview.  “This has nothing to do with taking away an adult’s right
to have a glass of beer at a Nats game,” he said, referring to
the  Washington  Nationals baseball team. “This is about drunk
driving.”  Highway Safety  The safety board, which investigates fatal plane crashes,
has spent more time in the past year on highway safety as U.S.
aviation has become safer. There have been no passenger deaths
on a U.S. commercial flight aboard planes with 100 or more seats
since 2001, the longest stretch since the jet age began.  In addition to proposing the interlock requirement and
endorsing passive technology, the NTSB yesterday recommended
that auto navigation-system suppliers develop “consistent and
intuitive” alerts to let drivers know if they enter a highway
using an exit ramp. Hersman said that’s the most common way
drivers end up going the wrong way.  NHTSA  said  this week that traffic deaths in 2011 fell to
32,367, the fewest since 1949.  The NTSB also recommended states develop safety programs
for older drivers, saying people over age 70 account for 15
percent of wrong-way collisions even though they’re less likely
to be drunk.  The safety board last month recommended states collect
information on where drunk drivers had their last drink, as well
as improving data collection and reporting of blood-alcohol
concentration and agreeing on a common standard for drug testing
after accidents.  About one-third of U.S. traffic deaths are related to
alcohol, according to NHTSA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  