-- Ipanema Views Blocked by Cargo Ships Angers Rio Hoteliers
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-12-11T12:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/ipanema-views-blocked-by-cargo-ships-angers-rio-hoteliers.html
A new vista is competing with the
sun, surf and swimsuits at Rio de Janeiro’s iconic Copacabana
and Ipanema beaches: a traffic jam of cargo ships belching
exhaust that has hoteliers crying foul.  Cargo traffic at Rio’s port has almost tripled in the past
three years as trade from  Brazil ’s second-largest city grows and
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the world’s largest deep-water oil
driller, expands its servicing of ships and rigs developing
recent offshore finds.  Residents and hotel operators say the daily lineup of as
many as a dozen idling ships is a threat to Rio’s marine eco-
system and a blemish on the city’s landscape, which the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
 declared  a world heritage site this year. They’ve taken their
complaints to the naval authority in charge of regulating
traffic in Guanabara Bay, demanding the congestion be relieved.  “Nobody likes to have a beach view packed with ships,”
Alfredo Lopes, the president of Rio’s hotel association, said in
a phone interview. “Imagine a big leak in Ipanema or
Copacabana? It wouldn’t be anything pleasant,” he said, adding
that he’s never seen similar bottlenecks during his lifetime.  The dispute is occurring as tourists flock to Rio in
advance of the city’s hosting of the  2014  World Cup  and 2016
Summer Olympics and after authorities reduced crime by cracking
down on drug gangs. The city’s government last week asked the
naval authority to seek alternative locations for the ships to
anchor while they await entry to the port.  “We can’t let that our seafront, one of the most beautiful
and well-known postcard views, become visually polluted,” Mayor
Eduardo Paes said in a statement sent to  Bloomberg News . “It
needs to be preserved.”  Dredging Needed  Capitania dos Portos do Rio , as the naval authority is
known, said in a statement that the only shipping channel deep
enough to accommodate vessels with over 11.5 meters (37.7 feet)
of draft passes two kilometers (1.25 miles) away from the shore.  New dredging investments should be carried out to create
alternative channels for these ships, which represent about 30
percent of the maritime traffic, the Capitania said. There are
no authorized anchoring areas off Ipanema and ships that park in
that region are fined and asked to move away, it said.  Hotel occupancy is expected to rise to a record 84 percent
average this year, compared with 82 percent in 2011, Lopes said.  Rio’s port received 2,281 ships in the first half of 2012,
 up 197 percent  from 768 in the first half of 2009, according to
Cia. Docas do  Rio de Janeiro , the city’s port authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  