-- Lira Gazing Has Basci Push Back on Stimulus Calls: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-12-12T16:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/lira-gazing-has-basci-push-back-on-stimulus-calls-turkey-credit.html
Gazing at the Turkish lira is
prompting central bank Governor Erdem Basci to guide market
expectations away from aggressive stimulus as he seeks to deter
speculators from pushing the currency lower.  The lira trailed behind all eastern  Europe , Mideast and
African currencies in the past month as investors anticipate
rate cuts starting as soon as Dec. 18. Basci said yesterday he
won’t be taking “extreme” steps as “measured” reductions are
sufficient. Two-year bond  yields  extended this year’s drop to
525 basis points, the most among 20 major  emerging markets .  “Everyone’s grandmother knows” Basci will be cutting,
Isik Okte, a strategist at state-run  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) ’s
investment unit in Istanbul, e-mailed yesterday. “He doesn’t
want to give currency traders a reason to smell blood.”  Basci’s remarks signal resistance to calls from lawmakers
including Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan to aggressively spur
consumer demand. Basci said he’ll monitor the lira against
 Turkey ’s main trading partners to decide on rates. His cut last
year triggered the world’s biggest currency depreciation, with
the lira plunging 18 percent against the dollar.  Speculation of the first cut to Turkey’s main  lending rate 
since August 2011 has been building as economic growth slowed to
1.6 percent in the third quarter, a pace that was below the most
pessimistic estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12 economists.
Growth was the most sluggish since a contraction in 2009,
according to the figures released Dec. 10. Industrial production
fell 5.7 percent in October, also the lowest level in more than
three years.  Corridor  Basci varies rates between his benchmark one-week lending
rate of 5.75 percent, the so-called policy rate, and an upper
end of the lending corridor of 9 percent. He can also adjust the
overnight borrowing rate, currently at 5 percent.  The yield on the government’s benchmark two-year notes fell
one basis point to 5.75 percent today, two basis points above a
record low on Dec. 4. The yield has declined this year from the
highest in emerging markets to below Russian and Brazilian debt.  The  extra yield  over U.S. Treasuries on Turkish bonds in
dollars dropped two basis points to 178, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index. That’s down from 385 at the end
of last year and compares with 184 for  Russia  and an average of
4398 for Middle Eastern countries.  Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swaps on Turkey fell one basis
point to 124. That compares with 134 for Russia and 144 for
 South Africa . Falling prices show improving perceptions of a
borrower’s creditworthiness. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  The lira climbed 0.3 percent to 1.7788 per dollar today.
The currency has advanced 1.3 percent during the past month,
compared with 4.4 percent for the Polish zloty, 4.2 percent for
 Israel ’s shekel and 3.5 percent for Russia’s ruble.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a Dec. 5 report that the
lira will probably strengthen throughout December before
plunging 8 percent to 1.90 per dollar within three months as
 interest rates  fall.  Basci, speaking at a conference in the Mediterranean city
of Antalya yesterday, said he’s keeping watch on the real
effective  exchange rate , or REER, against Turkey’s main trading
partners. The REER was at 119.2 in November. The central bank
will act to reverse lira gains should the measure strengthen to
between 125 and 130, Basci said.  Easing Trigger  The central bank’s trigger has been eased since Nov. 9 when
Basci said he would consider a reading of 120 to be
“overvalued” and 125 or above would warrant a stronger policy
response.  “The lira will inevitably surpass 120 in January,” Gulay Girgin, an economist at Oyak Securities in Istanbul, said in an
e-mailed report yesterday. “We keep our expectation of a minor
cut in the policy rate and lower band of the corridor at the
monetary policy committee meeting on Dec. 18 before a bolder
move in January.”  Caglayan said in a Dec. 10 speech in Ankara that the
central bank has already waited too long and a rate cut has
become “unavoidable.”  Even with Basci’s more cautious tone, traders betting on
the outlook for the next 12 months sent one-year  interest-rate
swaps  tumbling five basis points to 6.34 percent yesterday.  ’’After listening to Basci, we sense that he won’t
immediately deliver large cuts,’’  Ozgur Altug , chief economist
for BGC Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments
yesterday. “The bank will probably cut its policy rate and
overnight borrowing rates by 25 basis points at the next meeting
on Dec. 18, but it won’t make the strong move that many in the
market were expecting after the disappointing growth figures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  