-- Lira Rises to Month High After Basci Rules Out Extreme Measures
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-12-11T16:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/lira-rises-to-month-high-after-basci-rules-out-extreme-measures.html
The lira gained to its strongest in
more than a month after central bank Governor Erdem Basci said
 price stability  is a “priority” and “extreme measures” are
not required to curb currency gains.  The currency appreciated 0.4 percent against the dollar to
1.7824 by 6:15 p.m. in Istanbul, the strongest level since Nov.
6. Yields on two-year benchmark debt rose 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 5.76 percent, rising for the first time in
four days.  A “measured” cut in  interest rates  will be “sufficient”
to counter lira appreciation, Basci said in a televised
conference in southern Turkish city of Antalya today. Economic
growth does not get priority in the central bank’s decision-
making process as inflation remains above target, Basci said.
The bank has cut the  average cost of funding  for Turkish lenders
to 5.6 percent as of Dec. 10, from 11.93 percent on Jan. 6.  “A rate cut would be symbolic to address worries of
politicians and send the message to markets that the central
bank is putting a line in the sand on any lira appreciation,”
Simon Quijano Evans, ING Groep NV’s London-based head of
emerging-market research for  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa ,
said in an e-mailed comments today.  Basci said on Nov. 12 he won’t tolerate any unwarranted
currency gain jeopardizing the country’s external balances.
 Fitch Ratings  raised Turkey’s credit rating to investment grade
on Nov. 5.  Rate Cut  The lira has lagged all emerging-market currencies in
Europe, Africa and the Middle East over a month as the Turkish
central bank signaled it may cut interest rates further after
lowering the top-end of its so-called interest-rate corridor by
50 basis points to 9 percent on Nov. 20.  The bank kept the overnight borrowing rate steady at 5
percent and the benchmark interest rates unchanged at 5.75
percent last month. The rate-setting panel will meet on Dec. 18.  Turkey ’s  current-account deficit  narrowed to $2 billion
from $4.5 billion a year earlier, the central bank in Ankara
said on its website today. It was forecast at $2 billion
according to the median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at  sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  