-- Miro, Max Ernst Collectors Await Berlin Decision on Art
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-12-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/miro-max-ernst-collectors-await-berlin-decision-on-art.html
Ulla and Heiner Pietzsch are waiting
for Berlin to decide whether it can house their collection of
Surrealist art, with paintings by  Salvador Dali , Max Ernst,  Rene Magritte , Yves Tanguy and  Joan Miro .  Berlin’s museums currently have no space for the gift.
Plans to move the Old Masters to make way for 20th-century
paintings sparked online petitions and furious newspaper columns
earlier this year. The city’s museum authorities were forced to
reconsider. They plan to publish a report weighing the
alternatives in the first half of 2013.  For now, the fruits of nearly 50 years’ collecting hang on
the walls of the couple’s spacious modern villa in a western
Berlin suburb. In the airy living room, a brown Miro overlooks
the low table at which Ulla Pietzsch, blond and petite, offers
coffee and dainty iced cakes in pink, yellow, beige and
chocolate. A metal  Max Ernst  sculpture dangles above us.  “I am optimistic,” said Heiner Pietzsch, a fit 82-year-
old in a charcoal pinstriped suit with an open collared shirt.
“They are all politicians, and politicians find it difficult to
reject a gift like that. If they don’t find a space, we will
withdraw our offer, but I don’t think that will happen.”  Big Bequest  The Pietzsch couple lent their collection, estimated to be
worth at least 150 million euros (nearly $200 million), to
Berlin’s Neue Nationalgalerie for an exhibition that drew almost
200,000 visitors in 2009. They have since agreed to donate it to
Berlin after their deaths, on condition it is on permanent
display.  “As we were growing older, we started thinking about what
should happen,” Pietzsch said. “We have pictures from almost
every artist active in surrealism, so it would be a shame if the
collection was broken up.”  The exhibition was a test of Berlin public interest, said
Pietzsch, who made his money trading plastics and investing in
companies. A hint of a Saxon accent betrays his Dresden roots.  “I said to my wife, if there are only 20,000 or 30,000
visitors, then we can say it’s not worth it for Berlin,”
Pietzsch said. “There were 200,000, so we said O.K., we’ll talk
to the Nationalgalerie. That is how the decision to donate the
collection came about.”  It’s probable the Pietzsch gift will force Berlin to set a
timetable for constructing a new museum for the  Old Masters  near
Museum Island, a UNESCO world heritage site whose treasures
include the Pergamon Altar and Nefertiti’s bust. That would
clear the  Gemaeldegalerie  at Potsdamer Platz for 20th-century
art, a solution Heiner Pietzsch said he favors.  Rothko, Pollock  At present, the only space for 20th-century art is the
metal and glass Neue Nationalgalerie, designed by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. It’s too small to display all of Berlin’s vast
collection of Expressionist and pre-World War II art, let alone
the Pietzsch collection.  The Pietzsch couple purchased their first artwork, by the
East German painter Gerhard Altenbourg, in 1964. As well as the
Surrealists, they own works on paper by U.S. abstract
expressionists including  Mark Rothko  and  Jackson Pollock . A
Picasso is currently on loan to the Guggenheim in  New York .  Berlin’s museum collections have few such works because
money for acquisitions was scant after World War II.  “Berlin is lacking a museum for the 20th century,”
Pietzsch said. “We absolutely must have one. And our collection
would cover the years from 1930 to 1945 very well.”  Buying Miro  Heiner Pietzsch said each painting has a story to tell. I
ask about the Miro, perhaps the most important painting in the
collection as one of the artist’s first abstract, Surrealist
works. The Pietzsch pair saw the painting on sale at a dealer in
New York while they were in town for a Miro retrospective at the
Guggenheim in 1987, he recounted.  “We wanted to buy the picture but it gained in price
enormously overnight -- it doubled -- so we decided not to,”
Pietzsch said. “We went through the exhibition several times,
and I said to my wife: ‘None of the pictures here are better
than that one.’ And my wife said ‘Well then, just buy it.’  “It was a lot of money for us in those days,” he said.
“Now we’re very happy to have it.”  Pietzsch said he has received many “extraordinary” offers
for a Frida Kahlo self-portrait on the wall of the dining room.
Ulla Pietzsch said she would never part with it, and once joked
to a friend that she wanted to be buried with it.  “He believed me and nearly fell off his chair in horror,”
she says with a mischievous laugh.  The couple hopes the decision will be swift, and the museum
will be built quickly. If it’s ready in their lifetimes, they
would make their donation earlier, they said.  “The contract is for after our deaths,” Heiner Pietzsch
said. “Still it would be a dream for me to see the completed
museum of the 20th century with our art, and all the other art
too. But the decision has to be made first.”  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  George
Walden  on books,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts and  Amanda
Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 