-- Jaguar Land Rover Plans $1.2 Billion Factory in Saudi Ara
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-12-11T11:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/jaguar-land-rover-plans-1-2-billion-factory-in-saudi-ara.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar Land Rover
luxury unit signed a letter of intent with  Saudi Arabia ’s
government to study the feasibility of setting up a factory to
build its models locally.  Jaguar Land Rover is now beginning a detailed study for the
plant, the company said in an e-mailed statement. The initial
investment is estimated at 4.5 billion riyals ($1.2 billion),
the  National Industrial Clusters Development Program , under the
Saudi Arabian Ministry of Commerce & Industry, said in a
separate statement today. The factory would produce 50,000 Land
Rovers a year by 2017, it said.  “Saudi Arabia is an attractive potential development
option,” Ralf Speth, Jaguar Land Rover’s chief executive
officer, said in the company’s statement. “This is an exciting
project that could enable Jaguar Land Rover to establish a joint
venture partnership in a part of the world where luxury vehicle
sales are expected to rise.”  The luxury carmaker is turning to  emerging markets  to
offset slowing demand in Europe. The company said today it was
expanding its assembly operations in  India  and in September
announced that it had received approval to form a venture with
China’s Chery Automobile Co. to begin building cars in the
world’s biggest auto market.  Jaguar Land Rover, based in Gaydon,  England , accounted for
67 percent of Tata Motors’  revenue  in the three months ended
Sept. 30. The automaker plans to invest 2 billion pounds ($3.2
billion) in the unit this year to develop new models and expand
factories to cater to rising demand in China and Russia, and
reduce its dependence on Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  