-- Japan Utilities Plunge After Fault Found Under Nuclear Plant
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-12-11T06:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/japan-utilities-plunge-on-faultline-warning-under-nuclear-plant.html
Kansai Electric  Power Co. led
declines in Japan’s utilities after geologists said an
earthquake faultline may be active under a nuclear plant that
houses the country’s oldest reactor.  Kansai Electric shares fell as much as 9.7 percent, their
biggest intraday decline since Oct. 23, and closed 4.4 percent
lower at 742 yen in Tokyo. The Topix Electric Power & Gas Index
fell 1 percent.  The company is the second-biggest stakeholder in Japan
Atomic Power Co., which runs the Tsuruga nuclear plant on the
coast 127 kilometers (79 miles) northeast of  Osaka  that was
examined by geologists this month. The finding was announced
yesterday and may lead to decommissioning of the unit.  “The assessment raises the risk” that the nuclear
watchdog will come to a similar conclusion for other atomic
generators under investigation, Reiji Ogino, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley, said by phone today.  Kansai Electric’s Ohi plant, which houses Japan’s sole
operating reactors, is among six nuclear facilities being
investigated by the Nuclear Regulation Authority for possible
active  fault lines . The utility is carrying out additional
investigations after an NRA team was divided over whether a
fault under the Ohi station is active.  Nuclear Ginza  Under Japan’s guidelines for nuclear plants, active faults
are defined as those that have moved in the past 120,000 to
130,000 years, the NRA said Oct. 23 in a statement.  The conclusion by the NRA panel on Tsuruga is
“unacceptable,” Japan Atomic said in a statement yesterday.
The company will carry out investigations to support its claim
that the fault is not active, it said.  The government approved resumption of two reactors at the
Ohi plant in July, sparking weekly protests outside Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s official residence that attracted tens
of thousands of people. The Ohi plant and the Tsuruga station
are both located in Fukui prefecture, nicknamed the Nuclear
Ginza for its 13 reactors, which is the highest concentration in
the world.  Five scientists led by Kunihiko Shimazaki, a commissioner
on the NRA set up after the Fukushima disaster, agreed the fault
under the Tsuruga No. 2 reactor is very likely active. The No. 1
unit in the same plant started in 1970 and is the oldest
commercial reactor in the country. Both reactors are offline for
safety checks.  ’No Way’  “There is no way we can carry out safety assessments to
allow a restart as matters stand,” Shunichi Tanaka, the NRA
chairman, said yesterday on the Tsuruga reactor.  The five scientists conducted a two-day on-site survey at
the plant about 30 kilometers north of Lake Biwa, which supplies
drinking water for the Kansai region, Japan’s second biggest
metropolitan area. Japan Atomic is owned by the country’s 10
regional power companies.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co., the largest
stakeholder in the utility, fell as much as 4.3 percent, before
closing 1.4 percent lower at 138 yen.  The NRA will discuss the Tsuruga plant as early as tomorrow
based on the finding by the scientists, spokesman Gyo Sato said
by phone today.  Reactor Shutdowns  All but two of Japan’s 50 reactors are offline for safety
checks after the Fukushima disaster. The NRA has said it plans
to set up new safety standards by July that will be used to
assess whether more reactors can restart.  The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry may come to the
aid of Japan Atomic by encouraging it to merge with another
power utility or offering financial assistance for
decommissioning, the Nikkei newspaper reported today, without
citing anyone.  Japan  Atomic would have 256 billion yen in losses if the
company closes its three reactors, one at the Tokai Dai-Ni plant
and two at the Tsuruga station, exceeding its 163 billion yen in
net assets, the trade and industry ministry, which oversees the
country’s power companies, estimated in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  