-- Keystone Review Meaningless Without Climate Assessment
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-12-11T18:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/keystone-review-meaningless-without-climate-assessment.html
The U.S. environmental assessment of
a new Keystone XL pipeline route from  Canada  will be meaningless
unless it considers the effect mining of oil sands has on
climate change, opponents of the project said.  The State Department may release within days the updated
review of the path from  Alberta  to the  Gulf Coast  proposed by
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  President  Barack Obama  rejected a route that
crossed an aquifer in  Nebraska . Environmentalists say producing
oil from Alberta’s tar sands releases more carbon dioxide than
conventional drilling, worsening global warming.  The review will be “a meaningless document unless it
includes a serious review of the very serious climate impacts of
the tar sands development the pipeline will trigger,” Trey
Pollard, a spokesman for the  Sierra Club , said in a statement.  While a final decision is probably months away, the
analysis will be the administration’s first word on the revised
route. Environmental groups view the decision as a sign of how
Obama may weigh global-warming risks with energy development in
his second term.  “We want to see an analysis that follows through on the
president’s promise to examine all the impacts of the Keystone
pipeline and growing dependence on dirty  tar sands ,” Jeremy Symons, a vice president at the Reston, Virginia-based National
Wildlife Federation, said in an interview. The group said
yesterday the analysis may be released before Christmas.  Pending Decision  White House and State Department officials each said
climate change would be considered in the final decision on
Keystone. The department, which has authority over Keystone
because it crosses an international border, plans to issue a
final decision on the route in the first quarter next year.  Alex Pourbaix, TransCanada’s president for energy and oil
pipelines, said he didn’t expect the State Department to make
significant changes to how it views Keystone’s impact on climate
change in its latest analysis.  “The view was that the  oil sands  were going to be
developed regardless of whether Keystone was built,” Pourbaix
said in an interview in Toronto. “I don’t think that issue has
changed at all.”  Obama rejected the original route proposed by Calgary-based
TransCanada amid concerns that spills would endanger the
Ogallala aquifer under the permeable Sand Hills region in
Nebraska, one of six states Keystone will cross.  Moving East  TransCanada’s revised application proposes pushing the
pipeline further east in Nebraska, avoiding most of the Sand
Hills, said Brian McManus, a spokesman for the Nebraska
Department of Environmental Quality, in an interview. The
department held a hearing on Dec. 4 to gather public comment on
a draft of its report on the pipeline route.  The Nebraska agency is writing a separate analysis that may
be completed this month or in January. Governor Dave Heineman, a
Republican, has 30 days to send his recommendations to the State
Department.  Pipeline backers say Keystone will create thousands of jobs
and reduce the need for the U.S. to import oil from less
friendly countries. Republicans have criticized Obama for
denying TransCanada’s original application.  Obama should “give it a green light as soon as possible,”
Cindy Schild, a senior operations manager for the Washington-
based  American Petroleum Institute , told reporters on a
conference call this month.  Crude Production  The State Department’s final environmental assessment of
the original Keystone route said the project was “not likely to
impact the amount of crude oil produced from the oil sands.”
Canada would find other buyers if the U.S. balked at approving
the pipeline.  The analysis concluded U.S. emissions would be lower
without the project because tar sands oil would displace crude
produced by processes that release less carbon dioxide.  Environmental groups argue that oil-sands production would
slow without Keystone because producers would lack the
infrastructure to carry the fuel to markets in the U.S. or  Asia .  “This pipeline locks in decades of the dirtiest fuel on
the planet, and acknowledging this fact puts the pipeline
squarely at odds with President Obama’s commitment to tackle
 climate change ,” Symons said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  