-- Kibo Mining Plans to Develop Tanzanian Coal for Power Generation
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-12-11T14:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/kibo-mining-plans-to-develop-tanzanian-coal-for-power-generation.html
Kibo Mining Plc (KIBO)  plans to develop a
 coal mine  in southwestern Tanzania that is expected to feed a
proposed power plant with the capacity to generate as much as
350 megawatts, Chief Executive Officer Louis Coetzee said.  Plans to step up exploration at the Rukwa deposit, 70
kilometers (44 miles) north of Mbeya city, and build a power-
generation facility could take as long as two years after the
government grants approval, he said in an interview by phone
today from  Cape Town .  A “major Asian conglomerate” has signed a memorandum of
understanding to fund, construct and operate the plant, Coetzee
said. He declined to identify the company until negotiations to
convert the deal into a formal joint venture are complete.  “Our responsibility is to deliver a minimum amount of coal
and theirs is the plant,” Coetzee said. “Subject to regulatory
approval, we could have production in 36 months to 48 months.”
The entire project at the Rukwa field, which holds an
“indicated” 109 million metric tons of resources, will require
investment of $550 million to $650 million, he said.  Coal and Uranium  Galway, Ireland-based Kibo acquired the Rukwa acreage when
it took over Canadian company Mzuri Energy Ltd in September
alongside  South Africa ’s Mayborn Resource Investments Ltd.,
which transferred its coal and uranium concessions to the
explorer.  Tanzania vies with  Mali  as  Africa ’s third-largest gold
producer and it is home to the world’s only known deposit of
tanzanite, a gemstone previously only found in a small strip at
at the foot of  Mount Kilimanjaro , Africa’s tallest peak.  Kibo, which also has interests in gold and nickel projects
in the East African nation, plans to spend 7 million pounds over
the next two years on early-stage development, Coetzee said. Its
plans also include searching for gold in Morogoro and around
Lake Victoria and nickel exploration at Haneti in Tanzania’s
east. Brazil-based Votorantim Group and Kibo are considering a
partnership at Haneti, he said.  Kibo is listed on the London-based Alternative Investment
Market, or AIM, as well as the Johannesburg Stock Exchange
Ltd.’s altX exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  