-- Kingfisher Airlines in Talks With Etihad to Sell Stake
-- B y   N i v e d i t h a   R a v i
-- 2012-12-12T10:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/kingfisher-air-holds-talks-with-etihad-as-it-seeks-to-sell-stake.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier that halted flights because of a cash crunch, said
Etihad Airways PJSC is among possible investors it’s talking to
as it seeks to raise funds though a stake sale.  Discussions are only at the “negotiation stages” and no
agreement has been reached with Abu Dhabi-based Etihad or any
other airline, the Bangalore-based carrier said in a filing
yesterday. It didn’t name any other potential investors or give
further details on the talks. Etihad declined to comment.  Kingfisher, which grounded flights in October, jumped by
its daily limit of about 5 percent for a second day in Mumbai
trading. The Mumbai Mirror newspaper yesterday said Etihad had
agreed to buy a 48 percent of the carrier. Kingfisher’s chairman,
liquor tycoon  Vijay Mallya , has been trying to raise capital for
more than two years to help ease an 86 billion-rupee ($1.6
billion) debt pile.  Etihad is in due diligence with a “couple” of Indian
carriers, Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan  said last week in
an interview. The carrier already has stakes in  Virgin Australia
Holdings Ltd. (VAH) , Aer Lingus Group Plc and  Air Berlin Plc. (AB1)   The airline is in talks to buy as much as 24 percent of  Jet
Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s biggest listed carrier, an
Indian government official said earlier this month. Jet may
raise about 16 billion rupees from the sale, said the official,
who declined to be identified citing rules.  Jet yesterday said it had extended a codeshare agreement
with Etihad to cover flights to Paris from  Abu Dhabi .  Mallya’s Birthday  Etihad agreed to purchase the Kingfisher stake for more
than 30 billion rupees, Mirror newspaper reported, citing
airlines’ officials it didn’t identify. That’s more than double
Kingfisher’s market value. A deal may be announced around Dec.
18, Mallya’s birthday, according to the report.  Kingfisher closed at 16.35 rupees, the highest since Sept.
27. The airline has slumped 22 percent this year.  Kingfisher also needs funds to convince  India ’s aviation
regulator to re-active its license, which was suspended
following the service disruptions in October.  India in September ended a ban on local airlines selling
stakes to overseas operators to help them raise funds amid
industrywide losses. The investments can be as big as 49 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niveditha Ravi in Mumbai at 
 nravi2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  