-- Nets Rivaling Knicks Creates 505% Ticket Gain at Barclays Center
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-12-11T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/nets-rivaling-knicks-creates-505-ticket-gain-at-barclays-center.html
The  Brooklyn  Nets are using a
winning start to the National Basketball Association season and
a $1 billion arena to build a rivalry with the  New York Knicks .  The Nets have gained attention in a city saturated with
professional teams and fans who keep allegiances through decades
and cross-country moves, according to Robert Boland, chairman of
the sports management program at  New York University ’s Robert Preston Tisch Center. The team’s Barclays Center also is
competing with the Knicks and Madison Square Garden for
sponsorships and corporate partnerships, Boland said.  The Nets (11-8) host the Knicks (15-5) tonight in their
second of four meetings this season. Brooklyn has lost four
straight games following a franchise-best 11-4 start, including
an overtime win against New York in Brooklyn on Nov. 26.  “The storyline is no longer the big Knicks versus the
little Nets, or even the new Nets,” Boland said in a telephone
interview. “It’s two giant conglomerates selling sponsorships
in their arenas. It’s more a battle of equals.”  The Nets moved from Newark, New Jersey, into the new
Barclays Center, next to Brooklyn’s main transportation hub,
before the season. It is part of a $4.9 billion development
project, 5.3 miles (8.5 kilometers) from the Knicks’ Midtown
Manhattan home at the Garden, which bills itself as “The
World’s Most Famous Arena.”  The Nets were bought by Russian billionaire  Mikhail
Prokhorov  for $200 million in May 2010.  Through rebranding, relocation and renewed success, the
Nets have built a new identity that, while different, rivals
that of the two-time champion Knicks, according to Scott Becher,
managing director of Z Sports & Entertainment, a division of
Florida-based Zimmerman Advertising.  Urban Hip  “The design and vibe of the new arena is urban and hip,
also a bit of a departure from the more corporate MSG,” Becher
said.  The Barclays Center has scheduled college basketball
tournaments, concerts and boxing matches to surround 41 Nets
home games. The  National Hockey League ’s  New York Islanders 
announced they will move from Uniondale to the building in 2015.  The non-NBA schedule has helped expand the arena’s
corporate portfolio, according to Wayne McDonnell, an associate
professor of sports management at NYU. The building’s founding
partners include  American Express Co. (AXP) ,  Honda Motor Co. LTD (HMC) ,
EmblemHealth Inc. and  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)   “They are fully maximizing that facility as a multiple-
revenue-generating asset,” McDonnell said in a telephone
interview.  The Nets didn’t make Chief Executive Officer Brett Yormark
available to be interviewed for this story.  Sales Up  Nets merchandise bearing the new black and white logo,
designed with input from Brooklyn-born rapper and minority owner
Jay-Z, is the fourth-highest-selling franchise at the NBA’s
online store and main Manhattan shop, according to the league.
The team wasn’t in the top 10 last season, when it went 22-44.
The league doesn’t provide information beyond those franchises.  Ticket sales are up 505 percent from last season, 411
percentage points more than the next closest team’s growth,
according to aggregator TiqIQ.com. Nets tickets have an average
listing price of $193.72 on the secondary market, third in the
league behind the Knicks and the  Los Angeles Lakers , the website
said.  The boosts in ticket and merchandise sales show a franchise
that has gained a foothold in the New York market, which has
nine teams in the four major sports leagues and includes fans
still loyal to baseball’s  Brooklyn Dodgers , who left for Los
Angeles in 1957. The pursuit of corporate partnerships was
another obstacle for the franchise, according to Boland.  Jay-Z’s Declaration  “A lot of the money that flows into franchises is from
licensing, sponsorship and club seats and luxury boxes, and that
market has really expanded and gotten much more competitive in
New York,” Boland said.  Jay-Z himself declared success when the Nets beat the
Knicks 96-89 in overtime on Nov. 26, their first meeting of the
season.  “The city is under new management,” he said on Twitter.  Madison Square Garden isn’t ready to give up its crown.  “While we respect any competition, the Garden will always
be the Garden,” the company said in a statement. “Madison
Square Garden is located in the heart of  New York City , sitting
on the busiest transportation hub in the nation, and has been a
destination for New Yorkers and visitors to the city for over
130 years.”  The arena is two-thirds through a privately funded $1
billion renovation.  LeBron James  The Nets were mentioned in recent seasons as a possible
destination for  LeBron James , the reigning league Most Valuable
Player now with the defending-champion  Miami Heat ;  Carmelo Anthony , now with the Knicks, and All-Star center  Dwight Howard ,
who was traded in the offseason to the Lakers from the Orlando
Magic.  Instead of acquiring Howard, the team re-signed 24-year-old
center Brook Lopez, which may be an equally effective strategy,
according to Greg Anthony, a former NBA guard and now an analyst
with TNT. Lopez, who has missed the last five games with an
ankle injury, is leading the team with 18.5 points and 2.5
blocks per game.  Blocked Shots  “He’s keeping the ball alive, he’s blocking shots, he’s
being more of a factor on the interior, and that’s really, more
than anything, why this team has the potential to be really
good,” Anthony said in a telephone interview.  The Nets also retained three-time All-Star point guard
 Deron Williams  and defensive specialist  Gerald Wallace , and
added six-time All-Star guard  Joe Johnson , Bosnian forward Mirza
Teletovic and 6-foot-8, 245-pound forward Reggie Evans. The team
doled out more than $330 million in contracts, according to
ESPN.  The Barclays Center is operated by  Anschutz Entertainment
Group , which runs more than 100 facilities worldwide, including
Staples Center in Los Angeles.  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG)  also
runs a pair of theaters in New York, in addition to other
entertainment buildings. Boland said competition between those
companies furthers the Nets-Knicks rivalry.  “If the Knicks remain good and the Nets remain good, and
MSG and AEG continue on a global battle for facilities
opportunities, then this rivalry will really continue to grow,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  