-- Nigeria’s Naira Falls 2nd Day After Central Bank, Oil Sales Wane
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-12-11T13:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/nigeria-s-naira-falls-2nd-day-after-central-bank-oil-sales-wane.html
Nigeria ’s naira weakened for a
second day after the central bank sold the least dollars in a
month at an auction and as oil-company sales were said to wane.  The currency of Africa’s biggest oil producer slid 0.3
percent to 157.45 a dollar as of 2:31 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital. The naira has advanced 3.1 percent this
year, the second-best performer in Africa, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  sells dollars to lenders at
foreign currency auctions on Mondays and Wednesdays to help
manage the  exchange rate . The regulator sold $66 million at its
auction yesterday, the least since the Nov. 12 sale.  Oil
companies , including the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp., periodically sell dollars to lenders to meet local
spending needs and are the second-biggest source of foreign
currency.  “The naira is reverting to its recent equilibrium after
the large foreign-exchange sales from the NNPC pushed the
exchange rate lower in previous days,”  Samir Gadio , an
emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
London, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “The lower
foreign-exchange sales at the auction yesterday reflected the
ample dollar supply in the market.”  The naira’s appreciation this year could be traced to tight
monetary conditions, improved supply of foreign exchange to the
market by oil companies and increased inflows from portfolio
investors, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said Nov. 20
after the regulator held its benchmark rate at a record-high 12
percent.  Nigeria’s  foreign-currency reserves  have increased 36
percent this year to $44.64 billion, according to Dec. 7 data
compiled by the Abuja-based central bank.  ‘Narrow Range’  “In the past week, month-end dollar sales by oil firms
have supplemented CBN supply,” Ridle Markus and  Dumisani Ngwenya , Africa strategists at  Absa Capital  in Johannesburg,
wrote in a note to clients today. “With a stronger external
buffer, firm  oil prices  and production as well as still tight
monetary policy, we continue to expect the naira to trade in a
narrow range into 2013.”  Yields on 10-year naira debt fell three basis points to 12
percent, according to yesterday’s prices compiled on the
Financial Markets Dealers Association website. Borrowing costs
on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due January 2021
declined two basis points to 4.17 percent today.  Ghana’s cedi weakened 0.2 percent to 1.8956 per dollar in
Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  