-- No Respect at Moody’s as Bondholders Upgrade Tusk: Poland Credit
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-12-12T10:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/no-respect-at-moody-s-as-bondholders-upgrade-tusk-poland-credit.html
Poland’s improving public finances
aren’t enough for an upgrade at Moody’s Investors Service, even
as the  derivatives market  deems the nation’s bonds as safe as
French debt that’s rated four steps higher.  The cost to protect against a default by Poland, ranked at
the sixth-highest level of A2 by Moody’s, has tumbled 197 basis
points this year to 83, three basis point below credit-default
swaps for  France , which has an Aa1 rating, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The yield on Poland’s Eurobonds due 2022 fell to
a record 2.53 percent this week, cutting the premium over
comparable French notes to 80 basis points from 205 on Dec. 31.
Moody’s affirmed Poland’s rating and stable outlook on Dec. 7.  Polish bonds rallied this year as near-zero  interest rates 
in the U.S. and the euro area stoked demand for higher-yielding
debt from the only European Union country to avoid recession
since 2009. Concern France’s economic outlook was worsening led
Moody’s to strip the nation of its top rating last month,
following a similar move by Standard & Poor’s in January.  “Poland’s rating has improved relative to western  Europe 
as countries including France got downgraded,”  Felix Herrmann ,
an  emerging-markets  analyst at  DZ Bank  AG, said by phone from
Frankfurt yesterday. “It is not too low compared to other
emerging markets and is roughly in line with fundamentals. The
agencies have become much more careful with top ratings.”  Investor Demand  International holdings of Poland’s domestic bonds increased
to 186 billion zloty ($59 billion) at the end of October, or a
record 35 percent of the total, as Prime Minister Donald Tusk
pledged to narrow the  budget deficit  and speculation mounted
that the central bank would cut borrowing costs. Poland has the
largest economy in the EU’s east.  While Tusk “achieved significant fiscal consolidation,”
the country’s financial “vulnerabilities” including a current-
account deficit and foreign-currency loans are barring a rating
upgrade, Moody’s said in last week’s report. The current-account
gap was 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the second
quarter. The share of foreign-denominated loans in Polish banks
was 26 percent of total assets on June 30, according to the
financial regulator’s website.  ‘Very Forward-Looking’  Moody’s hasn’t changed Poland’s grade since November 2002,
when it raised it to the current level from Baa1. That upgrade
was “very forward-looking” and Moody’s has since been looking
“beyond the immediate economic cycle” to assess the country’s
longer-term credibility, Jaime Reusche, a sovereign-debt analyst
at the ratings company, said yesterday in a phone interview from
 New York .  “That Poland has preserved its rating through substantial
shocks in the past years shows it is a very solid credit,”
Reusche said. “While the creditworthiness of France or the U.K.
has been deteriorating, they are bigger economies with reserve
currencies and greater shock-absorption capacities.”  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed Poland’s A- rating four months
ago, saying its “relatively high” indebtedness and “large”
external financing needs offset the country’s deficit cuts. S&P
raised the country from BBB+ in March 2007, two months after
 Fitch Ratings  carried out the same change.  Almost half the time, government bond yields fall when a
rating action suggests they should climb, or they increase even
as a change signals a decline, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on more than 300 upgrades, downgrades and outlook
changes going back as far as 38 years and through Dec. 3.  Extra Yield  The rates moved in the opposite direction 49 percent of the
time for Moody’s and 47 percent of the time for S&P. The data
measured yields after a month relative to U.S. Treasury debt,
the global benchmark.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold 10-year zloty debt
rather than Aaa-rated German bunds fell to the lowest since
April 2010 today by 10:57 a.m. in Warsaw. The premium stood at
250 basis points down from this year’s peak of 425 on May 31.  Helped by the zloty’s 9.1 percent gain versus the euro this
year, the second-best worldwide, Polish bonds have returned 24
percent in euros, according to data compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. Czech
notes returned 15 percent and haven bunds 4.2 percent. Only
higher-yielding and lower-rated Greece,  Portugal ,  Hungary  and
Ireland have performed better among 26 sovereign EFFAS indexes.  The post-communist country’s public debt at 56 percent of
GDP compares with 90 percent in France and 93 percent for euro
members on average, according to forecasts for 2012 from the
European Commission. Czech government debt, rated a notch higher
than  Poland  at A1 by Moody’s, accounts for 45 percent of GDP,
while junk-rated Hungary’s stands at 78 percent.  ‘Attractive Combination’  The euro area’s debt crisis has pushed investors to Poland
because it “offers an attractive combination of safety and high
yields -- as opposed to  Germany , which is safe but brings no
return, and  Spain , which gives a high return but is risky,”
Katarzyna Rzentarzewska, a Prague-based economist at Erste Group
Bank AG, wrote in a report to clients yesterday.  “A positive growth rate and generous interest-rate
differential will further attract investors to Polish debt,”
she said. “We see room for a further drop in yields.”  Polish default swaps, or CDS, were little changed today at
83 after reaching a four-year low yesterday, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows. The contracts cost 79 basis points less than
the average for countries in emerging Europe, the  Middle East 
and  Africa  included in the  Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index ,
compared with a 70 basis-point discount at the end of 2011.  ‘Justified Low’  The swaps, which decline as perceptions of creditworthiness
improve, pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “We have reached a level in Polish CDS that many consider
as the justified low,” DZ Bank’s Herrmann said. “We see some
risk of profit taking.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Polish  dollar-
denominated bonds  instead of  U.S. Treasuries  fell four basis
point to a two-year low of 115 today, indexes compiled by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. show.  “Stand-alone, Polish bonds may look expensive compared to
ratings, but from a relative-value perspective I still prefer
them to French bonds,” Peter Schottmueller, who helps manage
the equivalent of $5.3 billion in emerging-market debt at Deka
Investment GmbH, said by phone from  Frankfurt  yesterday. “The
tremendous hunting for yields is the main driving force.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  