-- Nomura’s Akedo Said to Be Asia Equities Head as Adair Quits
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-12-11T03:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/nomura-s-akedo-said-to-become-asia-equities-head-as-adair-quits.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s Norikazu Akedo will become the sole head of Asia-Pacific equities after
joint chief John Adair resigned, said two people with knowledge
of the situation.  Adair, a managing director based in Hong Kong, stepped down
yesterday and will leave Japan’s biggest brokerage early next
year, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is private. Akedo, 46, is a senior managing director
who has also been in charge of Japan equities.  Nomura has been consolidating jointly held management roles
as it targets $1 billion of cost savings. London-based Piero
Novelli resigned as co-head of global mergers and acquisitions,
a company memo showed last month. Koji Nagai, who became chief
executive officer in August, has pledged to make Asia a focus of
the Tokyo-based bank’s overseas operations.  “Nomura has been in transition since the CEO changed,”
said Futoshi Sasaki, an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Asia has business opportunities but
it will take time for them to bear fruit.”  Akedo joined Nomura Securities Co. in 1989 after graduating
from  Keio University . He became head of  Japan  equities in 2011
and a senior managing director at the brokerage unit this year.  Adair joined Nomura from Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
October 2008, when it acquired the bankrupt Wall Street firm’s
Asian and European businesses as part of a global expansion that
has failed to generate sustained profit abroad. Under Nagai,
Nomura plans to become profitable in all regions by March 2015.  Asia Focus  Kenji Yamashita, a spokesman for Nomura in Tokyo, declined
to comment on Adair’s resignation. A call to Adair’s direct
phone line was answered by a person who declined to be
identified and referred inquiries to the company’s press office.  Kenji Kimura was named global head of M&A to replace
Novelli, who will leave the firm to “pursue other interests,”
according to the Nov. 12 memo.  Nomura plans to expand revenue from Asia-related businesses
by selling stocks and mutual funds from the region to Japanese
retail clients, Nagai said in a presentation to investors on
Dec. 3. It’s approaching sovereign wealth funds, central banks
and governments in Asia for asset management.  The firm also aims to underwrite initial public offerings
in Asia for affiliates of Japanese companies with a market value
of at least $1 billion, according to the presentation.  Nomura ranks sixth among managers of equity offerings in
Asia including Japan this year, arranging 60 transactions valued
at $7.9 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. UBS AG
is the top equity underwriter in Asia for 2012, followed by
Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley.  “Nomura would benefit if it can tap Japanese individuals
and their ample cash to invest in Asian companies, which require
funds to grow further,” said Sasaki at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  