-- Norilsk Slumps Most in Month on Dividend Concerns: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-12-11T15:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/norilsk-slumps-most-in-month-on-dividend-concerns-moscow-mover.html
OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel  fell the most
in a month as investors bet the world’s largest producer of the
metal may pay smaller dividends than expected.  Norilsk retreated as much as 3.3 percent before closing
down 2.1 percent at 5,266 rubles by the close in Moscow, the
biggest drop since Nov. 13. The amount of shares traded was
853,450, equivalent to 2.5 times the three-month average. The
stock’s 10-day  volatility  surged to 38.646, the highest since
March 6, according to Bloomberg data.  The shareholders agreed that Norilsk may distribute at
least $9 billion in dividends over three years, three people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the plan isn’t public, said today. That’s down from an initial
projection of more than $10 billion that the three people gave
last week. The figure is lower because the final agreement has
Roman Abramovich buying stock from shareholders and not treasury
stock from the company.  “There is no mention” in the statement of a “dividend
policy or dividend payouts, a factor that has driven up Norilsk
shares in recent days,” Barry Ehrlich, an analyst at  Alfa Bank ,
said in an e-mailed report.  Abramovich’s Millhouse LLC will hold 5.87 percent of
Norilsk after the world’s top supplier of nickel and palladium
retires treasury stock equal to 17 percent of the company,
United Co. Rusal and billionaire  Vladimir Potanin ’s Interros
holding said in a joint statement today. Rusal, Interros and
Norilsk today declined to comment on dividend talks. Treasury
stock refers to shares of issued stock reacquired by the issuing
company and held by it.  Norilsk shares surged 6.3 percent on Dec. 5, the most since
July 16, after Norilsk’s billionaire shareholders were said to
be planning $10 billion in dividends.  Had Abramovich bought treasury stock, Norilsk would have
had to report a loss from its buyback program “because it paid
$250 to $300 per share last year,” Nikolay Sosnovskiy, a metals
analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow, said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  