-- Northern Rock to Repay 270 Million Pounds After Loans Error
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-12-11T14:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/northern-rock-asset-management-to-refund-interest-correct-.html
Northern Rock  Asset Management Plc
will repay 270 million pounds ($435 million) to customers who
took out loans dating back to 2008 because the nationalized
lender failed to include mandatory wording in statements.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  told
Parliament in London today that interest payments on loans to
about 152,000 Northern Rock borrowers were not enforceable in
law. He will launch a “full inquiry” into how the bank omitted
the correct wording in statements, primarily on non-secured loan
agreements.  Northern Rock was nationalized in February 2008 after
suffering the first run on a U.K. bank in more than a century.
Virgin Money agreed to buy part of the bank in November 2011
after it had been divided, leaving the taxpayer with stakes in
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and
other mortgage assets, including NRAM.  “Affected customers are now entitled to redress, and will
also be sent revised documentation that contains all of the
compulsory account information and precise wording required,”
NRAM said in a statement.  The cost will be borne by U.K. Asset Resolution Ltd., the
state-owned organization that took on the loan books of NRAM and
Bradford & Bingley Plc, and is likely to increase public-sector
net borrowing in the current fiscal year, Treasury minister
Sajid Javid said in a written statement to Parliament.  Northern Rock won’t need extra capital from the Treasury to
finance the payout. The lender recorded a 305 million-pound
profit in the first half and “is expected to remain profitable
in 2012,” the Treasury statement said. The probe will be
carried out by Deloitte.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  