-- North Korea May Have Started Disassembling Rocket, YTN Says
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-12-11T08:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/north-korea-may-have-started-disassembling-rocket-ytn-says.html
North Korea  may be disassembling a
rocket it planned to launch this month, South Korea broadcaster
YTN said, in a potential setback to the totalitarian state’s
attempt to recover from a misfire eight months ago.  Satellite photos show workers may have begun taking apart
its three-stage rocket, YTN reported, citing an unidentified
South Korean government official. South Korean and U.S. military
officials are analyzing the satellite imagery to find a reason
for the move, according to the report.  South Korea’s  Defense Ministry  is looking into the reports,
a official said on condition of anonymity in line with ministry
policy. The official declined further comment.  North Korea’s space agency yesterday extended the Dec.
10-22 time frame for firing the rocket by one week to Dec. 29,
citing technical difficulties in its “first-stage control
engine module.” The delay came as Kim Jong Un’s regime faced
cold weather and international condemnation for the plan.  A botched test would add to Kim’s embarrassment earlier
this year after an April launch failed shortly after liftoff and
scuttled a U.S. food aid deal. The international community
including  China , North Korea’s biggest trade partner and ally,
ramped up calls to cancel liftoff, while the  United Nations
Security Council  discussed possible punitive measures.  China’s Role  Deputy Russian Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov will meet
chief South Korean nuclear envoy Lim Sung Nam tomorrow in  Seoul 
and South Korean foreign ministry official Kim Bong Hyun will
travel to Beijing on Dec. 17 to meet Chinese officials, Foreign
Ministry spokesman Cho Tai Young said today in Seoul.  Commerce with China accounted for 89 percent of North
Korea’s total, at $5.6 billion, according to data collected by
the Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency in Seoul. North
Korea doesn’t release economic data.  China is monitoring the situation and has been in contact
with North Korea and the U.S. over the issue, Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei told a briefing in Beijing today.  “We hope that all parties will focus on the big picture,
to handle the issue calmly and properly to avoid further
escalation of conflicts” on the peninsula, Hong said.  U.S. Response  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  spoke with Chinese
Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi Dec. 7 and discussed “what
influence China could bring to bear” in getting Kim’s regime to
focus on feeding its people instead of ballistic missile
launches, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said
yesterday.  Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns  plans to meet today
in  Washington  with Wang Jiarui, head of the Chinese Communist
Party’s international department. Wang  met with Kim in the
North Korean capital of Pyongyang on Nov. 30.  The U.S. has deployed ships capable of intercepting the
rocket, while Japan has readied its military and is fully
prepared to respond as needed to, chief cabinet secretary Osamu
Fujimura said yesterday in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  