-- Mo Yan’s Nobel: Parable of a Patsy?
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2012-12-11T18:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/mo-yan-s-nobel-parable-of-a-patsy-.html
On Monday night, the Chinese author
Mo Yan  accepted his Nobel Prize  in Literature in Stockholm. It
was a big event for him, and an even bigger one for China’s
newspapers and microblogs.  The interest was predictable: Mo is the first non-dissident
Chinese national to win a Nobel Prize, and his award is thus
celebrated as  a moment of international recognition  that has
long eluded the world’s most populous country. In 2010,  Liu
Xiaobo , the imprisoned Chinese dissident author and activist won
the Peace Prize -- the first Chinese national to win any Nobel -
- much to the chagrin and embarrassment of the Communist Party
he critiqued. Fair or unfair, Mo and his prize were destined to
be viewed in Liu’s shadow, and Mo was destined to be asked about
-- and perhaps made to answer for -- Liu.  The Chinese view Mo first and foremost as a soft-spoken
writer of muscular, often cruel novels of the Chinese
countryside. He inspires tremendous national pride (especially
since the Nobel). Before his big win, Mo had never demonstrated
much interest in speaking up politically. His name is actually a
pseudonym that means “Don’t Speak,” and he claims to have
adopted it in honor of his father’s orders to him during the
Cultural Revolution.  Still, Mo is surely not naive about political matters. His
role as vice chairman of the state-chartered Chinese Writers’
Association makes him  a target  of  critics who seek to diminish 
his work as soft-core agitprop and certainly informs his
understanding of the costs and benefits of speaking up on
political issues.  Mo’s spoken words since winning the Nobel have only seemed
to complicate perceptions of him among those who insist on
defining him politically. In October,  he spoke in support of
Liu’s release . Last week in  Stockholm , he declined to comment on
the dissident at all. Late last week, he gave now-notorious
comments seeming  to suggest  that censorship is a necessary
safeguard, much like an airport security check. On Monday,  his
brief speech  after receiving the prize imagined the horror of a
world without literature. He could variously be interpreted as a
man genuinely conflicted, a government patsy or a sly critic of
the Communist Party.  Over the last week, the discussion among Chinese of Mo’s
true feelings has raged more fiercely than at any time since he
won. The surge of interest came in part because of Monday’s
ceremony but more notably from an unexpected Internet sensation:
Mo’s  Nobel lecture  at the Royal Swedish Academy on Friday. By
early Saturday morning, the video and transcript had gone viral
with  tens of thousands  -- if not many more -- views. By the end
of the weekend, it was the subject of editorials in some of
 China ’s most important newspapers. And by Monday morning,
discussion of the speech was one of the top trending topics on
Chinese microblogs.  What animated many of the tweets and editorials were three
odd parables that Mo told at the end of his lecture, without
offering any interpretation of them. In China, where censorship
requires astounding feats of metaphor as a matter of daily
online life, highly opaque Nobel Prize-quality parables are
guaranteed to attract eager problem solvers (if only as literary
Sudoku to be solved by weekend’s end).  All three parables have received some attention, but it is
the third one which has China’s netizens in a sort of Talmudic
tizzy. As told to the academy, it begins: “A group of eight out-
of-town bricklayers took refuge from a storm in a rundown
temple. Thunder rumbled outside, sending fireballs their way.
They even heard what sounded like dragon shrieks. The men were
terrified, their faces ashen.”  Mo describes how the eight men decide that their group is
cursed by the presence of one who must have committed a crime
against the heavens. To determine who, they agree to throw their
hats toward the open door. Whoever’s hat flies out the door is
the guilty one and must spend the night in the storm. Mo
continues: “So they flung their hats toward the door. Seven hats
were blown back inside; one went out the door. They pressured
the eighth man to go out and accept his punishment, and when he
balked, they picked him up and flung him out the door. I’ll bet
you all know how the story ends: They had no sooner flung him
out the door than the temple collapsed around them.”  Many microbloggers, likely among them readers of Mo’s
novels and the petty cruelties that the powerful inflict on the
powerless within them, reasonably sense politics of a sort in
the tale, though not the kind of politics that can necessarily
be interpreted as a critique of the Communist Party.  Guo Jing, a reporter and popular host with the state-run
China National Radio, took such an approach via  a tweet  to Sina
Weibo, China’s most popular microblog, on Sunday: “Mo Yan
demonstrated his political attitude in the last story of his
speech: A nation with a mob mentality but without beliefs, a
sense of independence, and a spirit of repentance, will earn
collective retribution.”  Li Xingwen, a columnist for Party-owned Beijing Youth
Daily, offered two plausible deconstructions that also seem to
blame Chinese society, and not the ruling Communist Party, for
whatever tragedy the temple collapse represents. He wrote in an
 editorial  on Sunday: “On one hand, the survival or extinction of
‘the one and the seven’ in the damaged temple suggests that
society has its own justice and evil can’t escape a final
judgment; on the other hand, the story is about democracy at a
crossroads: The majority’s tyrannical policies were stupid and
they finally ate their own bitter fruit. Via these three stories
Mo Yan showed his viewpoint: never follow the crowd, never
protest for show, and never encroach on personal freedom in the
name of the majority.”  Not every interpretation is quite so flattering to Mo, or
to the Communist Party. Indeed, across Weibo -- and in less
obvious ways, in Chinese newspapers -- the Chinese seem
genuinely conflicted about how to interpret their new Nobelist’s
tale. In a  Saturday tweet  by Weibo user Kai Yan, Mo is both a
Communist Party pawn and a satirist whose subject-matter is
China’s all-powerful Politburo Standing Committee: “Mo Yan’s
prize was controversial and recently he supported censorship. He
was also condemned by the global media for not joining those who
support Xiaobo’s release. However, his acceptance speech was
interesting. One story in his speech was about eight masons who
took shelter from rain in a temple … this is an obvious satire
of the Communist Party’s court intrigues.”  It’s obvious to Kai Yan, at least. For others, it remains a
cryptic curiosity. Still, for all the discussion of Mo’s
politics, there’s an undeniable online consensus that China’s
first literary Nobelist should be left to do his work without
having to answer such questions (especially when posed by
foreign media). Most online commentators are more concerned with
the first half of the lecture, in which he offers elegiac
remembrances of his mother and hometown and how they made him
the man -- and the writer -- he is today.  One  popular tweet , later forwarded  thousands of times  on
Sina Weibo (most notably it was quoted in a  Sina Weibo tweet  by
Kai-fu Lee, former president of Google China, and then forwarded
by his followers), sums up the sentiment: “I have not read Mo
Yan’s books, but after listening to his speech I know why he
would win. He has a good mother and extended family, he’s honest
and kind-hearted, he has a life of hardship and rich experience,
he is good at observing and remembering … he is a calm and
ordinary Chinese.”  Mo’s politics, whatever they may be, will likely remain a
matter of dispute for years to come. But his standing among a
Chinese public that embraces and identifies him as one of their
own won’t falter because of it.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the  World View
blog , is writing a book on the global recycling industry. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter at
 ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 