-- Lockheed Won’t U.S. to Help Pay Severance Over an Affair
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-12-11T15:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/lockheed-won-t-u-s-to-help-pay-severance-over-an-affair.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  won’t ask the
Pentagon to reimburse part of the $3.5 million it is paying the
chief operating officer who left last month after it was
disclosed he had an extramarital affair with a subordinate.  Christopher E. Kubasik, who had been in line to become
chief executive officer of the world’s largest defense
contractor on Jan. 1, departed after an inquiry confirmed a
“lengthy, close and personal relationship” with someone who
worked for him, Chairman and CEO Robert Stevens said on Nov. 9.  Military contractors are eligible to seek Pentagon
reimbursement for a portion of executive compensation. The
maximum reimbursement, based on an Office of Federal Procurement
Policy benchmark, is $763,029.  Lockheed Martin notified the  Defense Contract Management
Agency  that “we do not intend to seek government reimbursement
for any part of Mr. Kubasik’s separation payment,”  Jennifer Whitlow , a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “This was a unique situation, and while we believe the
agreement was appropriate to protect ours and our customers’
interests, we do not plan to seek reimbursement for any part of
the separation payment in this situation,” she said.  Asked how much reimbursement Lockheed could have requested,
Whitlow said “We’re not going to speculate on what we might
have done.”  Army Lieutenant Colonel Elizabeth Robbins, a Pentagon
spokeswoman, confirmed in an e-mail that the company had
informed the agency it wouldn’t seek reimbursement.  “Lockheed Martin did not provide any rationale for its
decision,” she said.  Kubasik Agreement  Kubasik was promised $3 million in severance and an
additional $500,000 for waiving any claims against the company,
according to a Nov. 9 letter to him from Stevens that the
company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  “I regret that my conduct in this matter did not meet the
standards to which I have always held myself,” Kubasik said in
a statement the same day.  With Kubasik’s departure, Marillyn Hewson will become CEO
next month, and Stevens will stay on as executive chairman.  “It’s good to see the contractor take action so that no
tax dollars are involved in any severance pay,” Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, said in an e-mailed statement.  Senate Provision  Grassley and Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat,
backed an effort by Senator  Joe Manchin , a West Virginia
Democrat, to reduce the government’s reimbursement for executive
pay.  The $631.4 billion defense authorization bill the Senate
passed unanimously on Dec. 4 includes an amendment by Manchin
that would set the maximum compensation at $230,700. That’s the
annual salary for the U.S. vice president.  The House-passed defense bill doesn’t have a similar
provision, so it will be subject to discussion when lawmakers
start work this week on a compromise version of the legislation.  “I am determined to make sure that this provision is not
watered down as Congress moves forward with the defense bill,”
Manchin said in June, when the Senate Armed Services Committee
gave initial approval to his provision.  The Professional Services Council, which represents about
350 contractors, said in June that it was “actively opposing”
Manchin’s proposal, according to Roger Jordan, vice president of
government relations for the Arlington, Virginia-based group.  The defense bill is H.R. 4310.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  