-- Loews CEO Tisch Sees Boon in U.S. Natural Gas Exports
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-12-11T21:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/loews-ceo-tisch-says-opposition-to-natural-gas-exports-misplaced.html
(Corrects percentage ownership by Loews of affiliates in
penultimate graph.)  Loews Corp. (L) , the New York-based
 conglomerate  with holdings in insurance, energy and hotels,
believes U.S. natural gas exports would add jobs without
hampering the economy, Chief Executive Officer James Tisch said.  Gas prices  rising to $4.50 per million British thermal
units would probably spur producers to drill for an additional
10 billion cubic feet a day of gas, generating 100,000 U.S jobs,
Tisch said today in an interview at his office.  The comments follow a Dec. 5 U.S. Energy Department report
that supported exports and drew warnings it underestimated
potential costs to consumers. The  report  forecast overall
economic benefit from exports even though they could lead to
higher fuel prices that might crimp jobs and pay in agriculture
and manufacturing.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  CEO  Andrew Liveris  said the
report underestimated those costs.  “Exporting natural gas will not significantly increase the
price of natural gas because the supply curve is so flat,” said
Tisch. He pointed to Loews’s unit, HighMount Exploration &
Production LLC, which produced the equivalent of 173 million
cubic feet of gas in 2011. “We’re sitting on undrilled gas, we
look at the price and our costs every day and we’re ready to
drill as soon as the price gets to a reasonable amount.”  Gas fell 1.4 percent to $3.41 per million Btu today in  New
York .  Higher Prices  Gas will trade between $4.50 and $5 per million Btu for the
next 5 years to 7 years, Tisch said. That’s the price needed to
justify gas drilling, regardless of whether the U.S. begins
exporting the heating and power plant fuel, he said.  The Energy Department is weighing at least 15 applications
from energy companies looking to build terminals for exporting
liquefied natural gas, or LNG. Last week’s analysis advanced
debate in  Washington  over how to shape the U.S. energy mix as a
drilling technique known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
unlocks once-inaccessible gas from dense rock such as shale.  Cheniere Energy Partners LP (CQP)  began construction in August of
a $5.6 billion export terminal in  Louisiana , the first in the
contiguous U.S. It’s expected to begin operation in 2015.  Loews doesn’t invest in LNG terminals or buy gas for
export, and has no plans for such investments, Tisch said.  Loews estimates that each additional 1 billion cubic feet a
day of gas production in the U.S. creates as many as 10,000 jobs
in the energy  and steel industry, according to Tisch. Most of
the $30 billion of investment needed to export 10 billion cubic
feet per day would be spent in the U.S., he said.  Loews’s wholly-owned HighMount would benefit from higher
demand from exports, Tisch said. So would  Boardwalk Pipeline
Partners LP (BWP) , which is owned 55% by Loews and  Diamond Offshore
Drilling (DO) , half-owned by Loew, he said.  The report to the Energy Department underestimates the
economic benefit of cheap gas in manufacturing, according to
Dow. Every job created in manufacturing creates as many as eight
new jobs across the economy, the chemicals company said in a
Dec. 6 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  