-- Oil Trades Near One-Month Low as Fuel Stockpiles Seen Rising
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-12-11T09:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/oil-trades-near-one-month-low-as-fuel-stockpiles-seen-rising.html
Oil traded near the lowest close in
almost a month in  New York  on speculation that an Energy
Department report will show fuel stockpiles climbed in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures were little changed after dropping for a fifth day
yesterday, the longest losing streak since October. Distillate
supplies, including diesel and heating oil, are projected to
rise a second week while gasoline inventories may reach the
highest level since April, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before the government report tomorrow. The Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries is gathering in Vienna to
determine the group’s targets for crude production.  “Crude is starting to feel the weight of softer demand
given lower refining activity expected in the first quarter,”
said Filip Petersson, a commodities strategist at SEB AB in
 Stockholm . “The market needs a clear statement or action from
the Saudis that they will cut production to the already agreed
upon quota.”  West Texas Intermediate crude for January delivery was at
$85.74 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , up 18 cents, at 8:47 a.m. London time. The contract
slid 37 cents to $85.56 yesterday, the lowest close since Nov.
15. Prices have fallen 13 percent this year and are headed for
the first annual decrease since 2008.  Brent for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $107.67 a barrel, up 34 cents.
The European benchmark crude was little changed at a premium of
$21.97 to WTI, near the widest in a week.  Fuel Supplies  Oil may extend its decline in New York after settling below
an upward-sloping trend line on the daily chart yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Losses tend to
accelerate when technical-support levels are breached. This
line, connecting the intraday lows of June and November, is
around $85.66 a barrel today.  U.S. distillate inventories  probably increased  1.5 million
barrels in the week ended Dec. 7, according to the median
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before
tomorrow’s Energy Department report. Gasoline supplies may have
gained 2 million barrels to 214.1 million. Crude stockpiles are
expected to have shrunk  2.5 million barrels  as refineries
boosted fuel production, the survey showed.  The  American Petroleum Institute  in  Washington  will release
separate inventory data today. The industry group collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the Energy Department for
its weekly survey.  OPEC Quota  OPEC, which supplies about 40 percent of the world’s crude,
is expected to maintain its output quota at 30 million barrels a
day at its meeting tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg survey of
18 analysts published last week. The group will release its
monthly oil market report at about midday today.  “My expectations are for oil to hold” at about $85 a
barrel, said  Jonathan Barratt , the chief executive officer of
Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney. “We may
see some rhetoric come out of OPEC that will support prices, but
I don’t think they will change the quota.”  Saudi Arabia  and other Gulf nations increased output this
year to replace volumes lost from  Iran , whose exports have been
curbed by U.S. and European Union sanctions, relegating it from
the rank of OPEC’s second-largest producer.  The 12-member group last month estimated demand for its
crude at 29.72 million barrels a day in 2013, an assessment
reaffirmed yesterday by a subcommittee in Vienna. The
 International Energy Agency  in Paris on Nov. 13 predicted the
so-called “call on OPEC” at 29.8 million barrels.  OPEC may temporarily extend the role of Secretary General
Abdalla El-Badri as talks on a successor remain in deadlock,
according to two people familiar with the matter. The meeting is
scheduled to select a replacement for the Libyan, whose second
three-year term ends Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  