-- Oil Rebounds From One-Month Low on Germany Confidence
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-12-11T13:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/oil-rebounds-from-one-month-low-on-german-investor-confidence.html
Oil rebounded from the lowest close
in almost a month in  New York  as German investor confidence
jumped in December on speculation  Europe ’s largest economy will
gather momentum next year.  Futures rose as much as 1 percent after falling for a fifth
day yesterday, the longest losing streak since October. The ZEW
Center for European Economic Research said its index of investor
and analyst expectations climbed to 6.9 from minus 15.7 in
November. U.S. crude inventories declined  2.5 million barrels 
last week, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Industrial
output in  China  rose faster than economists estimated, official
data showed Dec. 9.  “Oil demand in China is in better shape than it seemed
before,”  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , said by phone. “U.S. crude inventories are expected
to drop and increased German investor confidence could extend
the upward move.”  West Texas Intermediate crude for January delivery gained
as much as 81 cents to $86.37 a barrel and was at $86.20 in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  as of
1:22 p.m. London time. The contract slid 37 cents to $85.56
yesterday, the lowest close since Nov. 15. Prices have fallen 13
percent this year and are headed for the first annual decrease
since 2008.  Brent for January settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $108.19 a barrel, up 86 cents.
The European benchmark crude was little changed at a premium of
$21.92 to WTI, near the widest in more than a week.  Fuel Supplies  Crude stockpiles are expected to have shrunk 0.7 percent as
refineries boosted fuel production, the Bloomberg survey before
tomorrow’s Energy Department report showed. U.S. distillate
inventories  probably increased  1.5 million barrels and gasoline
supplies may have gained 2 million barrels to 214.1 million.  The  American Petroleum Institute  in  Washington  will release
separate inventory data today. The industry group collects
stockpile information on a voluntary basis from operators of
refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed with the Energy Department for
its weekly survey.  Economists forecast a gain to minus 11.5 in the ZEW index,
which aims to predict economic developments six months in
advance. German economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the
third quarter from 0.3 percent in the second as the euro area
slipped into recession for the second time in four years.  Factory production in China climbed 10.1 percent in
November from a year earlier and retail sales grew 14.9 percent,
the biggest gains since March, government data showed Dec. 9.  OPEC Output  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries reduced
output to the lowest in one year in November as  Saudi Arabia ,
the group’s biggest producer, pumped the least in 13 months amid
speculation that global growth will slow and curb oil demand.  Supply from OPEC, which accounts for about 40 percent of
the world’s crude, dropped by 0.7 percent to 30.78 million
barrels a day last month, the organization said today in an e-
mailed report. Saudi Arabia pumped 9.67 million barrels in
November, OPEC said, citing secondary sources.  The group is gathering in Vienna tomorrow to determine the
group’s targets for crude production. OPEC is expected to
maintain its output quota at 30 million barrels a day, according
to a Bloomberg survey of 18 analysts published last week.  “The market needs a clear statement or action from the
Saudis that they will cut production to the already agreed upon
quota.” said Filip Petersson, a commodities strategist at SEB
AB in  Stockholm .  The 12-member group estimated demand for its crude at 29.75
million barrels a day in 2013. The  International Energy Agency 
in Paris on Nov. 13 predicted the so-called “call on OPEC” at
29.8 million barrels.  OPEC may temporarily extend the role of Secretary General
Abdalla El-Badri as talks on a successor remain in deadlock,
according to two people familiar with the matter. The meeting is
scheduled to select a replacement for the Libyan, whose second
three-year term ends Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  