-- Molycorp CEO Exits Six Months After Neo Material Deal
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-12-12T22:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/molycorp-appoints-karayannopoulos-as-ceo-after-mark-smith-exits.html
Molycorp Inc. (MCP)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Smith  left the rare-earths producer amid an
investigation of its disclosures and a lawsuit related to
engineering deficiencies at its mine.  Vice Chairman and former Neo Material CEO Constantine Karayannopoulos is Smith’s interim replacement, the  Greenwood
Village , Colorado-based company said yesterday in a statement.
Molycorp said its board is looking for a permanent hire.  “We feel that Mark had lost credibility with a number of
constituents, shareholders, potential investors and analysts,”
said Michael Gambardella, a New York-based analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Molycorp disclosed the probe by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission in a filing on Nov. 9, the day after
reporting its third-quarter earnings and hosting a conference
call to discuss results with investors, a decision that eroded
investors’ trust in his management, Gambardella said.  Gambardella, who rates Molycorp shares underperform,
equivalent to a sell, said that regardless of who takes Smith’s
place, the company will be producing into an oversupplied market
and will need to raise more money next year.  Big Deposit  Molycorp is the owner of the Mountain Pass mine in
 California , the largest rare-earths deposit outside  China .  The exit of Smith, 53, comes as the company is completing
construction at the project and is shifting its focus to
processing and manufacturing rare-earth products,  Jim Sims , a
Molycorp spokesman, said by telephone. Molycorp asked Smith to
leave, he said.  “The board decided to make a management change because the
profile of the company is rapidly changing,” Sims said.  The shares fell 3 percent to $10.99 in  New York . Molycorp
has plunged 58 percent since announcing March 8 it would
purchase Toronto-based Neo Material, which processes rare-earth
ores into magnetic powders and alloys.  “Smith has excellent credentials from a technical
perspective but his ability to deal with the financials of an
emerging company appeared to overwhelm him at times,” Alan Schlesinger, owner of Alchemy Management LLC in Great Neck, New
York, and a Molycorp investor, said in a telephone interview.  Smith declined to respond to Gambardella and Schlesinger’s
comments when reached by e-mail.  SEC Probe  Smith’s departure wasn’t related to an investigation by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and Molycorp is on
schedule to meet its target of producing at an annual rate of
19,050 metric tons of rare-earth oxides in the current quarter,
Sims said.  Molycorp said Nov. 9 it was being probed by the SEC over
the accuracy of its public disclosures. The shares slumped last
month to $6.06, the lowest closing price since its 2010 IPO,
after Molycorp said it was suing a contractor for what it called
defective engineering at Mountain Pass, leading to cost
overruns.  Private-equity firms Resource Capital Funds of Denver and
Pegasus Capital Advisors in New York bought Molycorp’s
predecessor, Molybdenum Corp. of America, from  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  in
2008 to restart rare-earth mining.  2010 IPO  Molycorp’s shares sold for $14 apiece in the IPO, managed
by JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley, to help fund Mountain Pass’s
restart. The stock more than tripled that year after China
curbed output and cut export quotas for rare earths, 17
chemically similar metallic elements used in hybrid cars, oil-
refining catalysts,  wind turbines  and weapons.  The shares and rare earth prices plunged in 2011 as buyers
pursued alternative raw materials and used stockpiles. Lanthanum
oxide, a rare earth used to refine gasoline, has dropped 53
percent this year, according to Shanghai Steelhome Information
data. Cerium oxide, used in glass polishing, has declined 56
percent and neodymium oxide, used in magnets, has fallen 46
percent, the data show.  Mountain Pass mine, 60 miles (96 kilometers) southwest of
 Las Vegas  in the Mojave desert, accounted for a majority of the
world’s rare-earth production from 1965 to 1985, according to an
April  report  from the U.S. Government Accountability Office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  