-- Monarchy Fund Evicts Elderly to Boost Profit in Bangkok Renewal
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-12-11T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/monarchy-fund-evicts-elderly-to-boost-profit-in-bangkok-renewal.html
Facing eviction from her home of six
decades, Amporn Pannarat personifies the dilemma facing the  fund 
supporting  Thailand ’s monarchy as it seeks to boost returns and
regenerate Bangkok with its first commercial development
project.  The 78-year-old watched over the years as office towers and
Four Seasons and St. Regis hotels went up around her aging
concrete house near Lumpini Park, now one of several dozen left
on land about the size of  Manhattan ’s World Trade Center site.
The Crown Property Bureau’s plan to build condominiums on the
location puts it at odds with an image of altruism maintained by
a fund that eschews profit as its central objective.  The shift to build commercial properties, instead of just
leasing land to private developers, risks exposing the CPB to
scrutiny it has largely avoided because of laws used to shield
the monarchy from criticism. The bureau, which has a portfolio
estimated at $41.3 billion -- more than three times that of the
British throne -- provides few details of its earnings and how
they are spent.  “I never thought they would ask us to move out,” Amporn,
who rents her home for 496 baht ($16) a month, about 240 times
less than leases for luxury flats on the same street, said last
month in her two-story home, where pictures of  King Bhumibol Adulyadej  adorn the walls. “If we have to move it will be
trouble as houses now are very expensive. I don’t know how much
compensation they would give but it won’t be enough to buy a new
house.”  Helping Society  While the CPB is one of Bangkok’s biggest landlords and
controls two of Thailand’s most valuable publicly listed
companies, its  annual reports  emphasize helping society over
making profits.  “This is not a profit-maximization organization, but they
have to survive,” said Chan Bulakul, chief executive officer of
 The Brooker Group Pcl (BROOK) , a Bangkok-based financial and real estate
consultant. “I don’t think the development will be on a big
scale. If you don’t step on other people’s toes, then nobody
screams. Once you start taking away all the profits from other
property developers, everybody will scream and they will do a
street fight. That’s the last thing they can afford.”  Many shop-houses are leased out at rates averaging about
1,500 baht per month, according to Aviruth Wongbuddhapitak, an
adviser to the CPB who sits on the board of two of its
subsidiaries.  Area ‘Deteriorated’  It’s necessary to develop the plot where Amporn lives,
which is among the 7 percent of the bureau’s land that is
considered commercial, because the area “deteriorated so
much,” he said in an interview.  “When we want to take the land back it’s very sensitive,”
said Aviruth, who holds a master’s degree in business
administration from  New York University . “This is always the
weak position of the CPB. We can lease them really cheap, but
whenever we increase the price, whenever we want to take the
land back, we have to pay them more than what they have paid to
us during the last 30 years.”  Bhumibol, the world’s longest reigning monarch who turned
85 on Dec. 5, met both U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  last month at the Bangkok hospital where he
has lived since 2009 while receiving treatment for various
illnesses. The monarch appeared last week with his family at a
birthday celebration in Bangkok before hundreds of thousands of
people who waved royal flags and shouted “Long Live the King.”  Jail Sentences  Thailand’s  constitution  says the king “shall be enthroned
in a position of revered worship.” State-run television
channels air broadcasts on royal activities each night, and an
anthem praising him is played at movie theaters. Thailand’s
lese-majeste law mandates jail sentences as long as 15 years for
defaming, insulting or threatening the king, queen, heir
apparent or regent.  The property bureau’s origins date back to the days of
absolute monarchy, when all the country’s land belonged to the
king and all revenue flowed to his coffers. That changed in the
late 1800s with the creation of a  finance ministry  and direct
taxation that separated the crown’s revenue and expenses.  After a 1932 revolution that ended absolute monarchy, the
civilian leaders passed a  law  setting up the Crown Property
Bureau with a government-appointed board to manage the
monarchy’s assets, which were separated from the king’s personal
holdings. A military-installed administration changed the law in
1948, giving the monarch control of the CPB’s board and allowing
income to be “paid at the king’s pleasure in any case.”  ‘Opaque’ Institution  “The palace’s biggest coup was getting control of the CPB
back,” said Kevin Hewison, a professor in the Department of
Asian Studies at the University of  North Carolina . “Because it
is opaque, we know little about how its profits support the
monarchy and the royal family.”  The monarch now picks all of the bureau’s seven board
members except for the sitting finance minister, who serves as
chairman. Chirayu Isarangkun Na Ayuthaya has signing power as
the bureau’s director-general, a position he’s held since 1987
through about 20 different finance ministers. Bhumibol’s role is
limited to appointing the board and endorsing the annual budget
that it submits, Aviruth said.  Sulak Sivaraksa, a 79-year-old Buddhist activist who has
faced several lese-majeste charges since 1984, is among those
calling for the law to be changed to allow for greater
transparency at the CPB. Parliament should account for the
bureau’s revenue and expenses, he said.  Transparency Call  “Nowadays there are a lot of attacks on the monarchy,” he
said by phone. “If they are really sincere about saving the
monarchy, they themselves should be transparent.”  Thaksin Shinawatra , the billionaire brother of Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, who was ousted in a 2006 coup,
said in a Sept. 24 interview that his sister’s government
supports the CPB and wouldn’t initiate changes to the lese
majeste law. Yingluck’s party controls a majority in parliament.
Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong declined to comment, while
deputy government spokesman Pakdiharn Himathongkham said the
cabinet hasn’t discussed the CPB’s plans and has no plans to
change the law governing the bureau.  Thailand’s government routinely denies reports linking the
bureau’s assets with Bhumibol’s personal wealth, which is
managed by the Privy Purse Bureau. The CPB’s assets pass down to
whoever becomes the next king, Aviruth said.  The lack of clarity regarding royal property became
apparent last year when German liquidators seized Crown Prince
Maha Vajiralongkorn’s Boeing 737 airplane to force payment on a
claim against the Thai state. The government, which said the
plane was the prince’s personal property, provided a letter of
guarantee for 38 million euros ($49 million) to secure its
release.  Personal Holdings  Bhumibol’s personal holdings include shares valued at $63
million in companies including  Minor International Pcl (MINT) ,
Thailand’s biggest hotel operator, which runs local franchises
for Burger King Worldwide Inc., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Privately held  land includes the sites of Siam
Paragon and Siam Center malls in central Bangkok, Aviruth said.  The extent of the Privy Purse’s landholdings and revenue
are unknown to the CPB because they aren’t disclosed, said
Aviruth, a former vice president of  Siam Cement Pcl (SCC)  who has sat
on the boards of other palace-linked companies. He spoke in an
Oct. 19 interview at the CPB’s Bangkok office and answered
questions in an e-mail received on Nov. 5.  While the bureau invested over the decades in dozens of
companies, including Firestone Tires and Kempinski AG, Aviruth
said most of its income comes from a 23.73 percent stake in  Siam
Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB) , Thailand’s biggest by market value, and a
31.94 percent stake in Siam Cement. Including subsidiaries, the
companies account for about a 10th of the  Stock Exchange of
Thailand ’s value.  1997 Crisis  The CPB’s push to earn more from its landholdings
accelerated after the financial crisis that started in 1997,
when the baht’s devaluation caused Asian currencies to tumble
and half the loans at Thai banks went bad. Siam Commercial
stopped paying dividends from September 1997 until January 2004,
while Siam Cement  omitted payouts  for more than four years,
leaving the CPB reliant on rents for income.  “At that time we didn’t have a chance to increase the
lease value because everything collapsed,” Aviruth said.  The CPB owns about 41,300 rai (66 square kilometers) of
land across the country, about a fifth of which is in Bangkok,
Aviruth said.  “We don’t know if in the future the government might not
be able to support the monarchy, so the monarchy has to support
itself,” Aviruth said. “This is a group of assets and funds
that we need to keep for the long term.”  Tax Money  The government allocated 7.4 billion baht in tax money to
fund travel, security, development projects and agencies related
to the palace in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, a 10 percent
increase from a year earlier, according to the  budget .  The bureau has moved to increase transparency, issuing
annual reports for the past two years that include some
financial information and divulging previously unreleased
figures in the 2011 book King Bhumibol Adulyadej: A Life’s Work,
part of which is  posted  on the CPB’s website.  Aviruth dismissed calls for more transparency, saying the
CPB has undergone a voluntary government audit and strictly
follows the 1948 law, which doesn’t require it to issue
financial statements. The statute remains relevant today, he
said.  “You cannot go into the bedroom of the king,” Aviruth
said. “This is unlike in the U.K. -- you can take the picture
of the naked someone in the palace. That’s not our culture.”  U.K. Model  The British monarchy posts detailed financial information
on its  website  accounting for everything from electricity usage
to asbestos removal. The British Crown Estate is valued at more
than 8 billion pounds ($12.9 billion) and mandated by law to
make a commercial return on assets. It pays all profit to the
government, an amount that totaled 240.2 million pounds in the
last fiscal year ending March 31, according to its  annual
report .  Public disclosures show the Crown Property Bureau earned
income of at least 11.1 billion baht last year. Of that, rental
income provided 2.7 billion baht, the bureau’s  annual report 
said, while  dividends  from Siam Commercial Bank and Siam Cement
provided 7 billion baht, Bloomberg data show. Holdings of CPB
Equity Co., CPB Property Co., Deves Insurance Pcl and Siam
Sindhorn Co. yielded another 1.4 billion baht, according to
Commerce Ministry filings.  The bureau’s stakes in those companies were valued at about
$9.3 billion. Porphant Ouyyanont, who has written scholarly
articles on the CPB and contributed to the book posted on its
website, estimated the bureau’s landholdings at 987 billion baht
($32 billion) in 2005. Using that estimate, the CPB would have a
net worth of at least $41.3 billion. That compares with an
 enterprise value  of $45.8 billion for state-run  PTT Pcl (PTT) ,
Thailand’s biggest listed company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Prime Locations  Aviruth declined to reveal how much the bureau held in cash
reserves or to detail how the money was spent, saying he doesn’t
have access to that information. He rejected land value
estimates that use market rates, including those by Porphant,
saying they are “not relevant” because the bureau leases most
of its land to poor people and has no plans to sell, which by
law requires the king’s approval.  The CPB’s prime spots include CentralWorld, one of the
country’s biggest shopping malls, which was torched during 2010
protests held by a Thaksin-backed group calling for an election.
It also has the site of a former military school across the
street from Lumpini park in central Bangkok.  ‘Perfectly Reasonable’  “All resources within the country should be put to the
best social and economic use,”  Korn Chatikavanij , a former
finance minister and deputy leader of the opposition Democrat
party, said by phone. “For property which is obviously in
commercial areas, or is already being used commercially, for the
crown to expect commercial returns from other people using those
properties is perfectly reasonable.”  The bureau plans to develop the 28-rai property on Langsuan
road in two phases before expanding it to include the rest of
the land plot extending to the park, which includes Amporn’s
house, according to Aviruth. It decided to use its own
developer,  Siam Sindhorn , to better manage traffic in the area
and because it promised tenants they’d be able to return, he
said.  “We don’t have the long-term objective to become the
developer ourselves,” he said. “But because of a number of
factors, an environment that permits us to do it, we’ll do it.”  The bureau has offered to give tenants on Langsuan road a
coupon worth 5,100 baht per square meter that can be used to buy
a leasehold unit in the new building, according to Aviruth. In
2006, the British Embassy sold a plot of land down the street
for more than 200,000 baht per square meter.  Market Rate  Aviruth said the leasehold units would sell at the
prevailing market rate, which may be as much as 200,000 baht per
square meter. It’s too early to say how many tenants would take
up the offer to stay in the area, he said.  One house remains on the plot where the first phase of the
project will be built after most people moved out last year.
Amporn, who lives across the street and has seen surveyors take
measurements of her house, said she doesn’t know anyone who is
planning to use the bureau’s coupon to return to the area
because the price is too high even with the discount.  “It is their land,” Amporn said of the bureau. “If they
want us to go, we have to go. I will be sad as I’ve lived here
for almost 60 years and have a deep bond with this house.”  While the CPB’s leadership has remained steady since
Chirayu became director-general a quarter century ago, Aviruth
said he didn’t know how the bureau’s operations would change
under a different monarch. Either way, he said, the CPB is now
in a “good position” to handle unforeseen events.  “We have a lesson that we learned a lot from the crisis,”
Aviruth said, referring to the 1997 baht devaluation. “We have
to be sure that we are secure financially to meet with the
unexpected storms in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  