-- Monti May Still Enter Election Race, Mizuho’s Barbieri Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-12-11T12:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/monti-may-still-enter-election-race-mizuho-s-barbieri-says.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
may reverse a pledge not to run for a second term and become a
candidate in elections that may be held as soon as February,
said  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European economist at Mizuho
International Plc in  London .  Monti, who leads an unelected government of non-
politicians, said yesterday that he was still too busy trying to
complete the work of his administration to consider running.  “Mr. Monti must not take sides as long as he is the leader
of a technocratic government supported by a broad coalition,”
Barbieri said in a note to investors today. “One should not
read too much in his statements at this stage.”  Monti, who was appointed 13 months ago when  Silvio Berlusconi  resigned, announced on Dec. 8 that he would step down
as soon as the 2013 budget plan was passed after former Prime
Minister Silvio Berlusconi withdrew his parliamentary backing
for the government.  Monti “cannot declare his intentions at this stage, as
that may endanger the final ratification of Italy’s Stability
Law --- the 2013 budget -- and of other urgent legislation
before parliament is dissolved,” Barbieri said.  Monti is being lobbied to engage in the campaign by a
coalition of centrist parties that support his overhaul of the
Italian economy. Ferrari SpA Chairman Luca Cordero di Montezemolo has formed a political party to run on a pro-Monti
platform and has been in talks with the Union of Centrist and
Freedom of Liberty for  Italy  to form a coalition.  ‘Centrist Alliance’  “If a credible centrist alliance is formed over the next
two weeks or so, and assuming that other European capitals keep
urging him to stay on as prime minister, Mr. Monti may be
persuaded to accept the nomination to prime ministerial
candidate of the centrist parties,” Barbieri wrote.  Another possibility for Monti to maintain influence after
the election would be to accept an appointment as president
after Giorgio Napolitano’s term ends in May, Barbieri said.  “We hold on to our view that Mr. Monti’s instinct is to
stay out of the election race, and Italy’s presidency may be
offered to him as an alternative to direct involvement in party
politics,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  