-- OPEC Uniting to Keep Quota as Oil Heads for Best Year
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h ,   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-12-12T06:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/opec-uniting-to-keep-quota-as-oil-heads-for-best-year.html
Most members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries are signaling they’ll keep
production policy unchanged at a meeting in Vienna today as the
group struggles to agree on a new secretary-general.  While OPEC’s own forecasts show that it’s pumping more than
consumers need,  Saudi Arabia ,  Iraq ,  Iran , the United Arab
Emirates,  Angola , Ecuador and  Libya  have indicated that supply
and demand are approximately in balance, suggesting that the
group will stick to its official output target of 30 million
barrels a day.  Brent crude  is heading for its highest-ever
annual price, averaging $111.78 a barrel so far this year in
 London .  “They’re pretty happy with where  oil prices  are,” Bill Farren-Price, the chief executive officer of Petroleum Policy
Intelligence, who correctly predicted the group’s last quota
change in 2011, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
in Vienna yesterday. “They probably don’t want to play around
with the formal target at the moment, and they’ll probably just
continue with this policy of informal production adjustment.”  High prices are handing OPEC members more than $1 trillion
in annual revenue for a second straight year and boosting income
for companies from Royal Dutch Shell Plc to Chevron Corp. Brent
futures, near $108 yesterday, have dropped 16 percent from this
year’s peak on concern that  Europe ’s failure to resolve its debt
turmoil is damaging the global economic recovery at a time when
non-OPEC supply is growing, particularly in the U.S., which is
undergoing an energy boom thanks to hydraulic fracturing of
shale deposits.  Market Share  Iran, which blamed Saudi Arabia for stealing market share
earlier this year when sanctions began to hobble its own
exports, is in agreement with the desert kingdom that current
prices are adequate.  “The market situation is good,” Iranian Minister of
Petroleum Rostam Qasemi told reporters as he arrived at his
hotel in Vienna yesterday. “The price is OK for the moment, not
too high but OK.”  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  hasn’t commented on
OPEC policy since he arrived in Vienna Dec. 10.  “The prices are fine, and customers are happy” Al-Naimi
told Bloomberg reporters in Doha on Dec. 7. “Everything is well
supplied.”  U.S. crude oil production will climb 640,000 barrels a day
to 7.1 million next year, the highest level since 1992, the
Energy Department said yesterday in its monthly Short Term
Energy Outlook.  Saudi Supply  Saudi Arabia has been unilaterally reining back in recent
months meantime, curbing crude output to a 13-month low of 9.67
million barrels a day last month, according to a monthly report
from OPEC yesterday that cited secondary sources for its data.  In its own direct communication to OPEC, Saudi Arabia said
November production was even lower, at 9.49 million.  “It will not take long, in our opinion, for Saudi Arabia
to make again the statement that they do not see the demand
hence they are reducing exports simply because the customers are
not asking for more,”  Olivier Jakob , managing director of
Switzerland-based researcher Petromatrix GmbH, said in a note.  Along with declining flows in  Nigeria , total production
from all 12 OPEC nations slid to an 11-month low of 30.78
million barrels a day last month, the OPEC report showed. That’s
still more than the group’s official quota and about 1.03
million barrels a day more than the projected average demand for
OPEC crude next year, the report said.  Do Nothing  “The market is well balanced,” U.A.E. Oil Minister
Mohamed al-Hamli told reporters in Vienna yesterday. “As long
as there is demand for crude oil, there is no need to do
anything,” he said, when asked if OPEC should lower its
official supply target.  Ecuador ’s oil minister, Wilson Pastor, said Dec. 10 that
OPEC may decide to leave its group quota unchanged, echoing the
unanimous opinion of a Bloomberg survey of 18 analysts last
week.  OPEC’s Ministerial Monitoring Committee, an internal panel
that monitors production, met yesterday and didn’t reach a
consensus on recommending a policy to the full gathering of
ministers, Algerian Oil Minister Youcef Yousfi told reporters.
Data reviewed by the committee shows that global oil markets are
adequately supplied, according to another OPEC delegate who
attended the meeting and asked not to be identified by name.  Several ministers, including Qasemi and Al-Hamli, said they
hoped OPEC’s selection of a new secretary-general, to replace
Abdalla El-Badri, would proceed quickly at today’s meeting.
Qasemi reiterated that Iran’s nominee, Gholamhossein Nozari, is
still in the race, along with two other candidates: Majid Moneef
from Saudi Arabia and former Iraqi Oil Minister  Thamir Ghadhban .  OPEC’s 12 members are  Algeria , Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  The full ministerial conference begins today at 10 a.m.
local time in Vienna, with a press conference tentatively
scheduled for 2 p.m. Kuwait and Venezuela will be represented by
lower-level officials at today’s meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in Vienna at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Vienna at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net 
Mark Shenk in Vienna at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  