-- Total to Use Asset-Sale Proceeds for Dividend, Rules Out M&A
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-12-11T13:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/total-plans-to-spend-asset-sale-proceeds-on-dividend-projects.html
Total SA (FP) , the French energy company
selling assets in France and  Nigeria , will use the proceeds to
pay dividends and develop oil and gas ventures as it rules out
acquisitions.  “No more acquisitions, we have plenty of reserves to
develop,” Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said
today at a press conference in Paris. “We are full of resources
for the long term.”  Total’s focus will be on payouts to shareholders, part of a
“strong dividend policy,” while investment to develop its 40
years’ worth of resources will “grow the company,” he said.
Total kept the third-quarter dividend unchanged at 59 euro cents
(77 U.S. cents) a share when it reported earnings in October.  The French  oil company  follows  BP Plc (BP/)  and other energy
producers in expanding asset sales to bolster  cash flow  while
shifting the focus of investment. Project development will
center on the company’s more lucrative ventures, while
exploration drilling may help it achieve a production target of
3 million barrels of oil and gas a day in 2017.  In recent years, Paris-based Total has embarked on riskier
exploration in frontier areas such as Ivory Coast, Kenya and the
so-called pre-salt geological layers off Angola. To develop
current and future projects, de Margerie has pushed ahead with
what the company has called “active”  portfolio management .  Nigeria Disposal  As part of portfolio changes, Total has agreed to sell a 20
percent stake in a field off Nigeria to  China Petrochemical
Corp. (1314)  in a $2.5 billion deal announced last month. It’s also
selling a network of gas pipelines and storage facilities in
southwestern France that may fetch about 2.5 billion euros.  “We need to be more aggressive in the way we buy and
sell,” de Margerie said today. Total has suffered from “too
much of a tendency to keep everything. We can also sell.”  The company plans to complete $15 billion to $20 billion of
divestments from 2012 to 2014. Most will come from the
exploration and production division, the CEO has said.  The explorer is investing in projects from shale drilling
in the U.S. and Argentina to  oil sands  in Canada, a refinery in
the Middle East and offshore gas projects in Australia, where de
Margerie said costs are soaring.  “Years ago it was considered paradise on earth and
everybody was telling you to go to Australia,” he said. “Now
suddenly it’s hell, due to prices, costs.”  Australian Gas  The company is a partner in the Inpex Corp.-led Ichthys
liquefied natural gas project in northern Australia and owns a
stake in the $18.5 billion Gladstone venture operated by  Santos
Ltd. (STO)  in the northeastern state of Queensland. The projects are
among seven LNG ventures under development in the country.  While Australia has more than $180 billion of LNG projects
going ahead and may surpass Qatar as the largest exporter of the
fuel by 2020, the industry faces increasing supply competition
from  North America  and rising construction expenses.  “Costs in Australia have always been higher than
elsewhere,” de Margerie said. “The boom in costs we have seen
recently is becoming too high.”  While Total doesn’t see further overruns in budgets for
Ichthys and Gladstone, “we have to be careful,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  