-- Tottenham May Make $37 Mln Offer for Moutinho: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-12-11T10:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/tottenham-may-make-37-mln-offer-for-moutinho-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  City Chasing Paulinho  Manchester City  may spend as much as 12 million pounds ($19
million) to land Brazilian star Paulinho in the January transfer
window, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The 24-year-old Corinthians player has represented Brazil
eight times. Since he joined the Sao Paulo team, Corinthians
have won the Brazilian title and the Copa Libertadores, which is
the South American equivalent of  Europe ’s  Champions League .  Arsenal-Bound?  Manchester United player Nani may move to Arsenal in
January after falling out of favor with manager  Alex Ferguson ,
the  Daily Mail  reported.  The 26-year-old Portuguese winger, whose contract with
United expires in 2014, has not played since he was taken off
during a Champions League match against Braga last month.  Arsenal coach  Arsene Wenger  is also keeping an eye on Kevin
Strootman of Dutch side PSV, who may cost as much as 20 million
pounds.  Cultural Lessons  Foreign players who play in the Premier League may be given
a crash course in English culture following several race-related
incidents on the pitch this year, the British Broadcasting Corp.
reported.  The lessons are among measures proposed in a 93-page so-
called “anti-discrimination action plan” drawn up by the
Football Association, the  BBC  said.  Ba Says Bye  Newcastle player Demba Ba is likely to leave the club in
the first week of January after he turned down an offer to earn
70,000 pounds a week, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Ba may be sold to Arsenal or Liverpool for 7 million
pounds, and could be replaced by Marseille player Loic Remy, the
paper said.  Ba, who has scored ten times in 17 matches this season,
earns 60,000 pounds a week including basic pay and appearance
money. His representatives are looking for a weekly wages of
80,000 pounds a week, which Newcastle boss Mike Ashley isn’t
willing to pay.  Southampton Signing?  Southampton may sign Colombian midfielder Carlos Sanchez
for 2 million pounds, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Sanchez, 26, joined Chilean club Rangers this summer, after
failing to agree on a deal with Bolton. He’s currently on loan
at French club Valenciennes.  Southampton manager Nigel Adkins is also interested in
Blackburn defender  Scott Dann  and his club mate  Paul Robinson .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  