-- Moutai Rises to 1-Week High After Test Results: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-11T09:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/moutai-rises-most-in-3-months-after-test-results-shanghai-mover.html
Kweichow Moutai Co. (600519)  rose to the
highest level in more than a week in  Shanghai  trading after
safety tests conducted this year showed the company’s products
met government standards for three chemicals.  The shares rose 1.8 percent to close at 202.31  yuan , the
highest since Nov. 30. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index
slipped 0.4 percent.  Samples sent to the  National Food Quality Supervision and
Inspection Center  and two laboratories in Guizhou province and
Shanghai this year met government safety levels for three
chemicals, including dibutyl phthalate, according to a stock-
exchange statement yesterday. The stock of  China ’s second-
biggest liquor maker, dropped 11 percent in the past three weeks
after some products made by liquor maker  JiuGuiJiu (000799)  Co. were
first reported to have contained excessive levels of the
plasticizer.  “The plasticizer issue is a short-term concern and
Moutai’s announcement could help the share price stabilize and
recover,” Ping An Securities analysts including Wen Xian wrote
in a report today. The brokerage has a “strong buy”
recommendation on the stock.  Moutai’s shares were suspended yesterday before the
announcement. The company said it has conducted a comprehensive
screening and risk assessment of the materials used in the
production of its liquor.  Jishou, Hunan-based JiuGuiJiu apologized after the official
Xinhua News Agency reported on Nov. 21 that some of its products
were found to have more than three times the permitted level of
dibutyl phthalate, or DBP, a plasticizer used to flavor drinks
and make plastic containers.  Ingestion of dibutyl phthalate can cause gastrointestinal
irritation, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea, according to the
website of the Scottish Environment Protection Agency.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  