-- How Republicans Can Steal Obama’s Budget Mojo
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-12-11T23:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/how-republicans-can-grab-back-obama-s-budget-bid.html
The U.S. isn’t  doomed  to be a
declining power mired in fractious debate. In fact, the
political blocks have fallen perfectly so that a once-in-a-
generation improvement in the quality of the federal government
is now possible.  More than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and
spending cuts are scheduled to take effect in January -- the so-
called fiscal cliff giving lawmakers reason to negotiate a
better deficit-reduction deal.  To take the next step, however, the Republicans must shift
the  debate  from tax rates on wealthy Americans to serious
spending cuts and entitlement reform. That shift requires them
to spell out specific changes they would make in exchange for
higher tax rates.  Republicans are happy to cut taxes; Democrats are eager to
 increase  spending. Neither party seems likely to unilaterally
produce the painful combination of spending cuts and tax
increases needed to bring the budget closer to balancing.
Neither party has self-sacrificing leaders willing to reduce the
generosity of overly expensive entitlement programs.  Split government requires both parties to share the blame
for unpopular change, which mutes the adverse electoral
consequences for either side and makes change conceivable.
Yet split government can also produce a quagmire or calamity,
such as lurching over the fiscal cliff.  Why do Republicans have to make the next move?  President  Barack Obama  decided that his victory gave him
bargaining strength, and his first  plan  was heavy on tax
increases and weak on spending cuts.  Obama’s Advantage  Reports suggest that Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
 offered  $1.6 trillion in extra taxes, extra stimulus spending on
infrastructure,  unemployment insurance  extensions and more
mortgage refinancing, plus vague entitlement changes that could
perhaps cut spending by $400 billion.  The  House Republicans  made a  counteroffer  that supposedly
raised tax revenue by $800 billion and cut $600 billion in
health-care spending, partially by raising the eligibility age
for Medicare.  Obama then used his bully pulpit to denounce the Republican
 fidelity  to low tax rates for the rich. That was good politics.
As long as Republican intransigence is seen as a forlorn attempt
to protect the hyperwealthy, the party will take the blame if
talks break down. If the Republicans stand to lose the most
public support from driving over the fiscal cliff, just as House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich ’s team lost the most by shutting down the
government in late 1995, then their bargaining power is weak.  The Republicans can, however, seem like the party of
budgetary innovation by making a far more generous offer now
that spells out exactly what it would take for them to accept
the increase in tax rates. I believe that higher rates deter
economic activity, but we’ve already spent vast amounts of money
and we’re going to have to pay it back.  Since the Ronald Reagan era, Republicans have championed
lower taxes without large spending cuts. This was good politics
too, yet it just pushed the pain into the future. That future
has arrived. By agreeing to some tax increases for the
prosperous, the Republicans benefit by seeming moderate.
In exchange of these increases, however, they need to think big
on demands for spending concessions.  They might start by requiring  cost-benefit analysis  for any
future federal spending on roads, bridges and other
infrastructure. Obama is convinced that the U.S. needs tens of
billions in extra spending on transportation projects. The
Republicans shouldn’t debate this claim in the abstract. It is
easy for the president to defend his stance by pointing to the
American Society of Civil Engineers infrastructure report card,
which is too often mistaken for objective science rather than
the lobbying  document  of an industry group.  Transportation Plan  Republicans can agree in principle that the U.S. needs
improved transportation while insisting that an expert group,
staffed equally by Democrats and Republicans, has veto power
over any new project costing more than a few million dollars. If
the funding is denied, the sponsor could suggest something else,
but after a few tries, the money would either be withdrawn or
used to maintain existing infrastructure.  The Republicans should also demand consolidation of federal
social policies. The U.S. has six large programs -- Temporary
Assistance for  Needy Families , Medicaid,  food stamps , housing
vouchers, unemployment insurance and the earned-income tax
credit -- spread across four Cabinet departments and the
 Internal Revenue Service .  Every one of the six plans encourages recipients to earn
less, because aid levels are tied to income. Although the
adverse incentives in an individual program are moderate,
collectively they can represent an effective  tax rate  far
exceeding 50 percent. (How this works: The federal housing
vouchers follow a 30 percent rule -- you spend 30 percent of
your income on housing if you have a voucher. If your income
goes up by a dollar, 30 cents of it goes for increased housing
payments. With  food stamps , for every extra dollar you earn,
your allotment goes down by 30 cents. Putting the two programs
together adds up to a 60 percent tax on earnings.)  The six programs should be better targeted, to provide more
effective aid for the disadvantaged at less cost. Rather than
extending unemployment insurance, which  encourages  long jobless
spells, current recipients should receive a fixed payment for a
limited duration that they will receive as long as they either
look for work or find a job. Consolidation will also highlight
the total amount of U.S. welfare spending, and will force
serious thinking about the trade-offs between different types of
spending.  Most important, the Republicans need to demand fundamental
changes in  Social Security  and Medicare. They have already
endorsed the easy solution: raising eligibility ages.  That move
will cut costs, and it is the right response to any Social
Security funding shortfalls. Yet it will not save Medicare.  Medicare Limits  Any program that offers an open-ended commitment to pay
for new medical procedures will generate an unending stream of
expensive new treatments from private-sector innovators. As
economists  Jeffrey Clemens  and  Joshua Gottlieb  have  documented ,
when Medicare reimbursement rates go up, costly elective
procedures also become more common, with little improvement in
patient health.  Republicans should demand at least these three permanent
checks on spending, and stop confining themselves to blocking
the higher tax rates that seem reasonable to most Americans. If
they do this, they can put Obama in the position of defending
indefensibly high spending and win the war for public opinion.
Their bargaining power will improve, and the spending limits
will help the U.S. emerge reinvigorated from the morass of
divided government.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 