-- Pakistan Tells U.S. It’s Ready to Deal With Safe Havens
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-12-11T14:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/pakistan-tells-u-s-it-s-ready-to-deal-with-safe-havens.html
Pakistan has signaled its readiness
to U.S. officials to deal with terrorist safe havens in response
to pressure to deny sanctuary to militant groups as American
forces withdraw from neighboring  Afghanistan , Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta  said.  “We are more encouraged with the fact that they want to
take steps to try to limit the terrorist threat within their own
country and obviously the threat that goes across the border”
to Afghanistan, Panetta told reporters traveling with him to
 Kuwait  today. General Ashfaq Pervez Kayani, Pakistan’s top
military officer, has “indicated a willingness to try to put
more pressure on safe havens.”  While “actions have to speak louder than words, I do
believe they’re in a better place because they understand the
kind of threats they should deal with,” said Panetta, who
arrived in Kuwait to meet with some of the 13,500 U.S. troops
stationed in the Persian Gulf country.  Insurgent safe havens in  Pakistan  continue to pose a threat
to Afghanistan’s long-term security and are preventing U.S. and
allied forces from dealing a “decisive defeat” to militants in
the region, the Pentagon said in a semi-annual report sent to
Congress yesterday. The report provides an unclassified snapshot
of the war effort in Afghanistan as the Obama administration
prepares to assess how many troops will remain in the country
after 2014, when most U.S. and allied forces depart.  ‘Endemic Corruption’  “The Taliban-led insurgency and its al-Qaeda affiliates
still operate from sanctuaries in Pakistan,” according to the
report’s executive summary. “The insurgency’s safe havens in
Pakistan, the limited institutional capacity of the Afghan
government and endemic corruption remain the greatest risks to
long-term stability and sustainable security in Afghanistan.”  While visiting Kabul in June, Panetta said the U.S. had
reached the “limits of our patience” with Pakistan, which
harbors insurgent groups such as the Haqqani network that have
attacked U.S. forces in Afghanistan. The U.S. is also trying to
reach a political agreement with the Taliban in Afghanistan even
as it seeks to defeat it militarily, Panetta said.  The Taliban is fighting the U.S. and allied forces as well
as the government of Afghan President  Hamid Karzai .  While discussions on steps to improve efforts at
reconciliation have taken place with the Taliban, “it’s not
easy because of the number of factions involved in the
conflict,” Panetta said. “We have to at least make the effort
to develop some kind of political solution as well as the
military effort we are engaged in.”  SEAL Killed  Pakistan also has indicated a willingness to help in the
reconciliation effort, he said.  The continuing threats to allied forces in Afghanistan were
underscored over the weekend when a U.S. commando was killed in
an operation that rescued Dilip Joseph, a U.S. doctor who was
captured at a rural medical clinic in eastern Kabul province
operated by  Monitor Star Development , a nonprofit group based in
 Colorado Springs ,  Colorado .  The Pentagon yesterday identified the commando who died as
Petty Officer 1st Class Nicolas D. Checque, 28, of Monroeville,
 Pennsylvania , who was assigned to an East Coast Naval Special
Warfare unit. The unit is known informally as SEAL Team Six, the
commando team that participated in the raid that killed   Osama
bin Laden .  The Pentagon report issued yesterday cites positive
developments, including transferring responsibilities to
Afghans, who have taken the security lead for 76 percent of the
population, according to the Pentagon.  ‘Blunted’ Offensive  “The coalition and our Afghan partners blunted the
insurgent summer offensive, continued to transition the Afghan
National Security Forces (ANSF) into security lead, pushed
violence out of most populated areas, and coalition member
nations signed several international agreements to support the
long-term stability and security of Afghanistan,” according to
the report’s summary.  By the end of September, one Afghan brigade and about 20
kandaks, or battalions, were ranked as being capable of
operating independently with advisers, according to the report.  While relations between Pakistan and the U.S. are
improving, the report said, “tensions remain” one year after a
November 24, 2011, cross-border incident when U.S. forces
accidentally killed 24 Pakistani soldiers.  Insider Attacks  The  International Security Assistance Force  also faced a
rise in so-called insider attacks. The attacks by Afghan
soldiers on coalition forces have “the potential to adversely
affect the coalition’s political landscape,” according to the
Pentagon.  The report highlighted a slight increase in enemy attacks
from April to September compared with the comparable six months
last year because of “a shortened poppy harvest employing low-
level insurgents far less than in past years.” Such enemy
attacks are occurring mostly outside populated areas, the report
found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Kuwait, via 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  