-- Panetta Repeats White House Veto Threat on Defense Measure
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-12-11T21:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/panetta-repeats-white-house-veto-threat-on-defense-measure.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
reaffirmed the threat by President  Barack Obama ’s advisers to
veto a defense authorization bill unless a House-Senate
conference committee makes changes.  The versions passed by the House and Senate would divert $8
billion in fiscal 2013 and $74 billion over a decade “to
unnecessary programs and activities, undermining our ability to
execute the new defense strategy, and threatening our military
readiness,” Panetta said in a letter today to Representative
Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the  California  Republican who heads
the House Armed Services Committee.  House and Senate negotiators may take up the defense
authorization bill as soon as tomorrow.  The Senate this month passed unanimously a measure
authorizing $631.4 billion for U.S. defense programs this fiscal
year that sticks to Obama’s proposed spending total while
drawing a veto threat with its policy provisions. The version
approved by the House in May would authorize $4 billion more
than the Senate measure, and a host of differences between the
versions must be hammered out if a measure is to be sent to
Obama before the lame-duck session of Congress ends this month.  Among the differences, the House wants to authorize funding
for a U.S. missile-defense site on the East Coast, while the
Senate doesn’t. The U.S. currently has interceptor silos in
Alaska and California.  Global Hawk  In his letter, Panetta objected to a provision in the House
bill that would bar the Pentagon from retiring the Block 30
version of  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s Global Hawk high-altitude
drone. The Pentagon has proposed truncating purchases of the
Block 30 unmanned aerial vehicles and putting those it bought
into storage, saying they are more expensive to operate and have
less sensing capacity than  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s older U-2 spy
planes.  Panetta also opposed House language that would curb the
Defense Department’s ability to reduce the number of active-duty
personnel in the Army and Marine Corps.  Panetta cited provisions in the Senate-passed measure that
he says “intrude” on the executive branch’s ability to
transfer detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to other countries
and to decide where to prosecute detainees.  “These sections would preclude moving even convicted war
criminals serving life sentences to secure facilities in the
 United States  that would also be economically efficient,” he
said.  Panetta also objected to provisions in both bills that
would prohibit use of federal funds for the Medium Extended Air
Defense System, or MEADS, which the U.S.,  Italy  and  Germany 
agreed to develop seven years ago to replace the Patriot defense
program.  The administration requested a final $400 million to close
down MEADs. Panetta said refusing to fund it would
“jeopardize”  NATO missile defense commitments made with the
other two nations, and could cause them to question the U.S.
commitment to future cooperative efforts.  The defense authorization bill is H.R. 4310.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  