-- PetroChina to Buy BHP Stake in Browse Venture for $1.63b
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-12-12T05:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/petrochina-to-buy-bhp-stake-in-browse-project-for-1-63b.html
PetroChina Co. (857) , Asia’s biggest oil
producer, agreed to pay  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  $1.63 billion for its
holding in  Woodside (WPL)  Petroleum Ltd.’s proposed Browse liquefied
natural gas project in  Western Australia .  PetroChina will acquire an 8.33 percent stake in the East
Browse joint venture and a 20 percent share of West Browse,
Melbourne-based BHP said today in a statement.  The deal comes as Chinese oil and gas acquisitions reached
a record this year, following  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion bid for
 Nexen Inc. (NXY)  It gives PetroChina a share in natural gas resources
off the Australian coast that may underpin an LNG venture
estimated by Deutsche Bank AG to cost A$44 billion ($46 billion).
The Chinese state-owned company wants half its oil and gas
output to come from overseas by the end of the decade.  The purchase confirms “China’s intensifying interest for
natural gas imports,”  Gordon Kwan , head of energy research at
Mirae Asset Securities HK Ltd., said in an e-mail response to
questions. “Expect more such deals, and they will gain speedy
regulatory approvals as they are minority stakes.”  The appetite for oil and gas assets among Asia-Pacific
companies is growing after energy demand in the region rose at
more than double the world average of 2.5 percent last year.
Before today, purchases this year by  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028) , Cnooc, Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and India’s Oil
& Natural Gas Corp. took the region’s total to a record $99
billion, tying with the U.S. for the first time.  China’s Goal  China will drive global demand for natural gas, with its
consumption rising more than 11 percent a year through 2020,
according to a presentation this month by  BG Group Plc. (BG/)   Excluding today’s accord, Chinese companies had announced
$25 billion of oil and gas acquisitions this year, the most
since at least 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  PetroChina is planning to invest at least $60 billion this
decade in global oil and natural gas assets, Chairman Jiang Jiemin said in March. The company said in August it’s looking at
assets in Central Asia, east Africa, Australia and Canada, with
President Zhou Jiping telling reporters at the time he’s
“completely confident” of achieving that goal.  Woodside, Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer,
plans to decide next year whether to go ahead with Browse at
James Price Point in the Kimberley wilderness region. Royal
Dutch  Shell (RDSA)  Plc and  BP Plc (BP/)  are also partners in the venture,
while  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  earlier this year divested its Browse share
in a transaction with Shell.  Higher Estimate  Perth-based Woodside in February boosted estimates for the
natural gas resources in Australia’s Browse Basin by 17 percent
to 15.5 trillion cubic feet.  “BHP and Chevron were two of the most vocal potential
dissenters about the James Price Point development, and they’ve
voted with their feet,”  Benjamin Wilson , a Sydney-based analyst
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said today by phone.  Sending the gas to the existing North West Shelf LNG
development operated by Woodside or using a floating LNG vessel
to process the gas offshore are alternatives to developing a new
Browse plant, he said. PetroChina will probably seek to buy LNG
from Browse as well, according to Wilson.  Woodside said in October 2010 that supply talks were
continuing with PetroChina even after a preliminary 2007
agreement to sell as much as 3 million metric tons of Browse LNG
a year to the Chinese company lapsed.  Laura Lunt, a Woodside spokeswoman in Perth, declined to
comment on whether the company is talking with PetroChina.  Shares Gain  Woodside rose 1.6 percent to A$34.45 in Sydney trading,
while BHP gained 1 percent to A$35.76. Australia’s benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.2 percent.  PetroChina and Shell own Australia’s Arrow Energy Ltd.,
which plans an LNG development on the Queensland state coast.
Shell may delay until 2014 a decision on whether to build the
project amid rising costs in the country, Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Voser  said in Beijing last month.  For the Chinese company, the Browse deal appears to show a
lack of confidence in the Arrow plan and U.S. exports of the
fuel,  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in Hong Kong, wrote in a report today.  Chinese companies have invested in other Australian LNG
projects as part of agreements to buy fuel. China Petrochemical
Corp., or Sinopec Group, is a partner in a A$23 billion venture
led by  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) , and China National
Offshore Oil Corp. agreed last month to pay $1.93 billion to
increase its stake in BG’s project.  Mitsui, Mitsubishi  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , Japan’s biggest trading company, and
Mitsui & Co. agreed earlier this year to buy a 14.7 percent
stake in Browse for $2 billion. The Mitsui and Mitsubishi
venture, Japan Australia LNG Pty, also is buying about 1.5
million tons of LNG annually from Browse.  PetroChina is paying about $5.40 per barrel of oil
equivalent, higher than the $4.40 per barrel paid by the
Japanese companies, Bernstein estimated.  BHP’s minority interest in Browse fell outside its strategy
of owning “large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream
assets diversified by commodity, geography and market,” the
world’s largest mining company said in an e-mail response to
questions. “The sale of Browse realizes an opportunity to exit
at an attractive valuation.”  The Browse partners have a right to match PetroChina’s
offer, which is subject to regulatory approvals and expected to
be completed in the first half of 2013, BHP said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  