-- Treasuries Fall Before U.S. $32 Billion Note Auction
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-12-11T16:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/treasury-breakeven-rate-is-near-one-month-high-before-fed-meets.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year
yields up to the highest level in two weeks, as the U.S.
prepared to sell $32 billion in three-year debt in the first of
three note and bond auctions this week totaling $66 billion.  Longer-term  securities  led the declines after a report
showed German investor confidence jumped more than forecast this
month. A gauge of U.S. inflation expectations reached the
highest level in a month as Federal Reserve policy makers start
a two-day meeting at which they’re forecast to decide to make
additional bond purchases.  “There’s a big chunk of supply,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. “It puts a little pressure on the market. The three-year
auction won’t be a big deal. The front end has plenty of
buyers.”  The  yield  on the 10-year note climbed four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 1.65 percent at 11:36 a.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.66
percent, the highest level since Nov. 27. The 1.625 percent
security due in November 2022 fell 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 3/4.  The 10-year break-even rate, the  difference  between yields
on the benchmark notes and comparable Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, touched 2.51 percentage points, the most
since Nov. 7. The gap measures investor expectations for
inflation over the life of the securities. It has increased for
five consecutive days, the longest stretch in almost two months.  Thirty-year yields rose four basis points to 2.84 percent,
the highest since Dec. 3.  Debt Auction  The three-year notes to be sold today yielded 0.33 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with a yield of 0.392 percent
at the previous sale of the maturity on Nov. 6. They reached a
record-low auction yield of 0.334 percent in September 2011.  Investors bid for 3.41 times the amount of debt that was
offered at last month’s auction, down from a record 3.96 times
at the Oct. 9 sale. Primary dealers, which trade directly with
the Fed, bought 52.7 percent of the securities, the most in
three months.  The U.S. is scheduled to auction $21 billion of 10-year
notes tomorrow and $13 billion of 30-year bonds Dec. 13.  Short-term Treasuries may be supported by a potential flood
of cash into the U.S. money markets if unlimited Federal  Deposit
Insurance  Corp. coverage is allowed to lapse later this month as
scheduled.  Inflow ‘Wave’  “There are enough people on the front end willing to be
long,” Roth of Mitsubishi UFJ said, referring to bets that
shorter-term securities will gain. “Everyone thinks the
expiration of the TAG program will cause a wave of inflows.”  The FDIC’s expanded deposit insurance is part of the
Transaction Account Guarantee Program, known as TAG. An
emergency 2008 government provision providing unlimited
insurance on certain bank accounts during the U.S. financial
crisis to help prevent sudden withdrawals will expire at the end
of the year unless Congress extends it.  There’s about $1.4 trillion sitting in banks’ non-interest-
bearing transactions accounts that hold more than $250,000, the
previous insurance ceiling, FDIC data show. It will become
uninsured in January if Congress doesn’t act.  Investors in Treasuries increased bets in the week ended
yesterday that the prices of the securities would drop,
according to a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Net Shorts  The  proportion  of net shorts held steady at four percentage
points, the same as the previous week, the survey showed. The
percent of outright shorts, or bets the securities will fall in
value, increased to 19 percent, from 17 percent the previous
week, according to the survey.  The percent of outright longs rose to 15 percent, from 13,
the survey said.  Investors cut neutral bets to 66 percent, from 70 percent,
which matched the highest level since August.  The Fed will announce tomorrow after the policy meeting
that it will begin buying $45 billion in Treasuries each month,
pushing its balance sheet almost to $4 trillion, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  Forty-eight of 49 economists predict the  Federal Open
Market Committee  will purchase the securities to bolster an
existing program to buy $40 billion in mortgage bonds each
month. Policy makers pledged in October to continue that plan
until the labor market improves “substantially.”  Operation Twist  A program known as  Operation Twist , in which the Fed sells
shorter-maturity Treasuries and buys longer-dated debt, is due
to expire at the end of the month. As part of the plan, the
central bank purchased $1.4 billion of TIPS today due from
January 2021 to February 2042.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of assets from 2008 to 2011 in
two rounds of the stimulus strategy called quantitative easing.  Treasuries declined earlier as the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research said its index of German investor and analyst
expectations, which is designed to predict economic developments
six months in advance, climbed to 6.9 this month from minus 15.7
in November. Economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted a gain
to negative 11.5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  