-- Reinsurance Rates Won't Rise in January, Allianz Re Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-12-11T11:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/reinsurance-rates-won-t-rise-in-january-allianz-re-says.html
Property and casualty reinsurance
rates won’t increase in January when the industry renews the
majority of its annual contracts with clients, the head of
 Allianz SE (ALV) ’s reinsurance arm said.  “Rates will probably be flat to a little down in
January,” Amer Ahmed, chief executive officer of Allianz Re,
said in an interview in Munich. “Compared to last year, 2012
has been a quiet catastrophe year and reinsurers will be eager
to keep their volumes on the back of good results.”  Reinsurers, which help primary insurers shoulder risks in
return for a share of the premiums, pushed through higher prices 
on the back of last year’s record $105 billion of claims for
disasters including the earthquake and tsunami that hit  Japan 
and floods in  Thailand . They will struggle to boost prices next
year after losses from natural catastrophes declined in 2012 and
reinsurers accumulated record levels of capital.  Allianz Re posted an operating loss of 101 million euros
($131 million) last year and would expect a profit of 300
million euros to 400 million euros in a “normal year,” Ahmed
said in March. With no significant catastrophe losses except
those from superstorm Sandy, 2012 has been an “abnormally
good” year, he said this week, while declining to give further
details on the outlook for earnings.  Highly Uncertain  Sandy may result in insured losses of as much as $25
billion according to  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-biggest
reinsurer, making it this year’s most expensive event for
insurers and reinsurers. The storm made landfall in  New Jersey 
in October, damaging property and interrupting business in
states including  New York .  “While Sandy was more significant than what was initially
imagined, estimates on its costs are still highly uncertain,”
Ahmed said. “It will be interesting to see the impact of it on
the U.S. catastrophe reinsurance programs that are up for
renewal in January.”  Insured catastrophe losses totaled $12 billion in the first
half of this year, according to  Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurer. That compares with about $82 billion in the same
period of 2011.  This year’s low claims bill has helped reinsurers
accumulate a record $480 billion of capital by the end of June,
according to a  report  by Aon Benfield, the largest reinsurance
broker.  Allianz Re, which gets about 80 percent of its business
from other units of Allianz,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, began to
clean up its third-party reinsurance business last year to boost
profitability. Property and casualty reinsurance contributed 88
percent of Allianz Re’s  premium income  of 3.8 billion euros last
year.  “Going forward, we will focus our third-party business on
key clients across their reinsurance portfolio and on key
markets such as  Asia  and agricultural reinsurance,” Ahmed said.
“We would rather have a consistent relationship with a customer
than being an insignificant provider of reinsurance capacity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  