-- Renesas Rises After $1.8 Billion Bailout Agreement: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-12-11T00:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/renesas-rises-after-1-8-billion-bailout-agreement-tokyo-mover.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  rose to
the highest level in five months in Tokyo trading after saying
it will raise at least 150 billion yen ($1.8 billion) from a
Japan-backed fund and customers as part of a bailout plan.  The chipmaker advanced 10 percent to 340 yen, headed for
the highest close since July 5, as of 10:25 a.m. The company
will sell new shares to a group led by Innovation Network Corp.
of Japan, making the government-backed fund its biggest
shareholder with a 69 percent stake, Renesas said yesterday.  The capital will help Renesas, a supplier to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Nintendo Co., boost spending to develop more advanced
microcontrollers used in cars and TVs. Japanese chipmakers have
struggled amid falling demand, the strong yen and competition
from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , causing Elpida Memory Inc. to file
for  bankruptcy protection  in February before agreeing in July to
be acquired by Micron Technology Inc.  “Things are moving in the right direction, with the
company securing capital,” said  Makoto Sengoku , a Tokyo-based
market analyst at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co. “Renesas has
technology, so that should make it easier to keep moving in the
right direction as well.”  The group led by INCJ will buy 1.25 billion shares for 120
yen apiece, Kawasaki, Japan-based Renesas said in a statement
yesterday.  Renesas may get an additional 50 billion yen of investment
or financing from INCJ if more funds are needed, according to
the statement.  Toyota, Panasonic  A group of companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Nissan
Motor Co., Denso Corp., Keihin Corp., Panasonic Corp., Nikon
Corp., Yaskawa Electric Corp. and Canon Inc. will also invest in
Renesas, according to the statement yesterday. Toyota,  Japan ’s
biggest carmaker, will hold 2.5 percent of Renesas, it said.  Renesas President Yasushi Akao said yesterday the company
recognizes the need for further restructuring and has received a
proposal on job cuts from INCJ. The two sides also will discuss
forming new management, he said.  Renesas is cutting jobs and considering closing or selling
plants as demand drops for its system LSI chips, used for
functions including processing TV images. The chipmaker plans to
increase its focus on the microcontroller business, which
accounted for 43 percent of Renesas’s sales last fiscal year.  Forecast Cut  The company plans to spend 40 billion yen to develop
microcontrollers and another 40 billion yen to develop
automotive semiconductors, it said.  The company has posted 177.6 billion yen in combined losses
since it was formed in 2010 through the merger of money-losing
chipmakers Renesas Technology Corp., a venture between Hitachi
and Mitsubishi Electric, and NEC Electronics Corp.  Renesas cut its revenue forecast for the year ending March
31 to 820 billion yen from a previous forecast of 868 billion
yen, it said yesterday. It maintained its net-loss forecast of
150 billion yen, compared with last year’s loss of 62.6 billion
yen.  The INCJ plan keeps Renesas, a key supplier to Japan’s
automakers, in domestic hands after KKR & Co., a New York-based
private-equity firm, was said in August to seek control of the
company. KKR offered Renesas’s main shareholders and lenders
about 100 billion yen, a person with knowledge of the matter
said at the time.  Microcontroller Market  Renesas had a 27 percent share of the global market for
microcontrollers last year, according to researcher IHS iSuppli.
It controlled 42 percent of the market for microcontrollers used
in cars to run systems including airbags and brakes. A lack of
the components after last year’s record earthquake and tsunami
in Japan prompted automakers to shut factories.  Renesas’s microcontroller business has an operating profit
margin of at least 10 percent, the company said in June.  The chipmaker said Oct. 16 it booked a one-time charge of
about 84 billion yen to cut about 7,500 jobs. The company
employed 42,800 as of March 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Mitsubishi Electric Corp., Hitachi Ltd. and NEC Corp.
currently own a combined 91 percent of Renesas.  Innovation Network Corp. was formed in 2009 to invest in
companies that support Japanese industry and has announced about
400 billion yen in planned spending on 31 projects, according to
its website.  The fund took a 70 percent stake in the liquid-crystal-
display venture formed this year by  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Toshiba Corp. (6502) 
and Hitachi, and spent $680 million for a 40 percent stake in
Landis+Gyr AG, a Swiss electronic-meter company majority-owned
by Toshiba.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  