-- Obama and Republicans Trade Offers to Avert Fiscal Crisis
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-12-11T23:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/republicans-made-cliff-counter-offer-today-boehner-aide-says.html
President  Barack Obama  and House
Republicans traded budget proposals intended to avert spending
cuts and tax increases scheduled to begin in January.  Obama and House Speaker  John Boehner  spoke today as they
exchanged offers, according to a Republican congressional aide
and an administration official, both of whom spoke on condition
of anonymity to discuss the private negotiations.  Obama, interviewed on ABC News, said, “I remain
optimistic” that a budget agreement will be reached. He said he
is “pretty confident” Republicans will give in to his demand
for higher tax rates for top earners.  If Congress does nothing, more than $600 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts, the so-called fiscal cliff, will
start taking effect in January.  The Obama administration reduced its demand for new  tax
revenue  from $1.6 trillion to $1.4 trillion, said a second
Republican congressional aide who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly about the talks.  That person and a third Republican staff member said
Boehner’s counteroffer kept the same $800 billion revenue figure
he proposed earlier, to come from limiting  tax deductions  and
not from higher tax rates. The aides, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said the offer included only minor changes from
Republicans’ previous proposal to protest what they viewed as a
lack of movement by the White House.  White House officials didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Balanced Approach  “We sent the White House a counteroffer that would achieve
tax and entitlement reform to solve our looming debt crisis and
create more American jobs,” said  Michael Steel , a spokesman for
Boehner. “We’re still waiting for the White House to identify
what spending cuts the president is willing to make as part of
the balanced approach he promised the American people.”  Earlier,  Jay Carney , Obama’s chief spokesman, refused to
provide details about what negotiators were discussing.  “I don’t think it is helpful to give hourly or daily
readouts” of the conversations, Carney said. He declined to
comment on “speculation about what was said and spin about what
it means.”  Carney said Obama has provided specific cuts in a September
2011 proposal to a congressional supercommittee considering
plans to reduce the deficit and in the budget he presented to
Congress earlier this year.  Christmas Holiday  Also today, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said Congress
still has time to enact a plan before the Christmas holiday
although it won’t be easy.  “I think it’s going to be extremely difficult to get it
done before Christmas, but it could be done,” Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, told reporters.  Reid spoke a few hours after Boehner reiterated his call
for Obama to offer proposed spending cuts as part of a deficit-
reduction package.  “Where are the president’s spending cuts?” Boehner, an
Ohio Republican, said on the House floor.  Asked today about prospects for a budget deal, House
Republican Whip Kevin McCarthy of California told reporters that
Obama “changes what he asks for so I get less confident.”  Stocks, Bonds  Stocks rose. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.7
percent to 1,427.84 at 4 p.m. in  New York , after rallying as
much as 1.1 percent earlier. The Dow increased 78.56 points, or
0.6 percent, to 13,248.44, its highest level since Oct. 22.
Treasuries fell, as the benchmark 10-year note yield increased
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.65 percent at
3:40 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  If Congress doesn’t act, tax rates for income at all levels
would rise, along with taxes on estates,  capital gains  and
dividends.  The  Congressional Budget Office  has said if nothing
changes, the stalemate probably would lead to a recession in the
first half of 2013. Obama and Boehner are trying to replace the
immediate deficit reduction with more gradual tax and spending
changes.  More than 150 chief executive officers, including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s  Jamie Dimon  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s  Lloyd Blankfein , called on Obama and Boehner to compromise on a budget
deal that would include new tax revenue and spending cuts.  Without a “principled compromise” soon, the chief
executives warned in a letter today, the U.S. will suffer
“long-lasting, if not permanent” economic damage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  