-- RIM Moves to 7-Month High on Developer Interest
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-12-11T21:17:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/rim-moves-to-7-month-high-on-developer-interest.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  climbed to a
seven-month high after the BlackBerry maker said a survey showed
application developers’ willingness to endorse its new
BlackBerry 10 platform has more than doubled since May.  Fifty-eight percent of developers questioned between May
and October said they would recommend BlackBerry 10, according
to a report by Pivot Point Research commissioned by Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM.  The shares climbed 6.1 percent to $12.60 at the close in
 New York , the highest price since May 2. The stock has doubled
since Sept. 24, just before the company’s last earnings report,
though it remains down 13 percent this year. RIM is scheduled to
report earnings Dec. 20.  After years of losing ground to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS, which
powers its iPhones, and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android, RIM is counting
on the BlackBerry 10 smartphones to resurrect its fortunes. The
breadth and depth of the application’s ecosystem is an
increasingly critical factor in its success and RIM has been
criticized in the past for not making its platforms easier to
develop.  Alec Saunders, RIM’s vice-president, developer relations,
who has been traveling the globe in recent months talking up how
BlackBerry 10 is an improvement on what came before, said this
is a sign of progress.  “The focus we have had on building a true developer
ecosystem and community is clearly working,” he said in a
statement today.  Still, the challenge he faces was underscored by a report
last month which showed RIM’s share of U.S. smartphone sales in
the 12 weeks ended Oct. 28, tumbled 6.9 percentage points to 1.6
percent from a year earlier. RIM’s new BlackBerry 10 phones will
be unveiled Jan. 30 before going on sale on “multiple
continents” in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  