-- Romanian Leu Retreats as Concerns Over New Government Rise
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-12-11T15:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/romanian-leu-retreats-as-concerns-over-new-government-rise.html
Romania ’s currency retreated as
investor concerns rose over the formation of a new government
since negotiations between President Traian Basescu and Premier
Victor Ponta’s coalition have yet to start.  The leu weakened more than 0.2 percent to 4.5438 per euro
by 5 p.m. in Bucharest, the lowest on a closing-basis since Nov.
16, erasing yesterday’s gains. Yields on the government’s euro-
denominated bonds due November 2019 declined two basis points,
or 0.02 percentage points to 4.635 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The political situation in Romania remains tense and
markets are likely to follow developments very carefully,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , said in an e-mailed note today. “As political
uncertainty will remain high until the government has been
formed, we currently consider the upside in euro/leu to be the
more attractive one. The 4.55 resistance area is already within
reach.”  Ponta, whose Social Liberal Union got 58.6 percent of the
votes in a Dec. 9 general election and seeks to secure a
constitutional majority in Parliament, is hoping to convince his
arch rival Basescu to name him as prime minister again. The
President has the right to designate the head of a new
government after consulting the winners of parliamentary
elections, according to the Romanian Constitution.  Romania has been engulfed in a power struggle between Ponta
and Basescu during the summer, which culminated with a 52-day
suspension for the president, followed by an invalidated
nationwide impeachment vote on July 29.  Basescu said before returning to his office at the end of
August that he won’t nominate Ponta as Premier again and
declined to repeat the statement since.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  