-- Rousseff Faces Congressional Override of Brazil Oil Bill Veto
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2012-12-11T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/rousseff-faces-congressional-override-of-brazil-oil-bill-veto.html
Brazilian lawmakers will try to
override President  Dilma Rousseff ’s veto of some parts of an oil
royalties bill, which would be the first such congressional
challenge since she took office almost two years ago.  Rousseff on Nov. 30 vetoed parts of legislation granting
more revenue from recent offshore oil finds to non-producing
states. Rio de Janeiro Governor Sergio Cabral said the loss of
revenue could bankrupt his state ahead the 2016  Summer Olympics ,
which are to be held in Rio.  Non-producing states have a majority in congress and their
representatives are ready to make Rousseff’s veto the first
issue on congress’s agenda, Senator Alvaro Dias, the leader of
the main opposition party said yesterday.  “It’s usually very hard to reject a veto, but this
opportunity is unique,” said the leader of the Social Democracy
Party of  Brazil , or PSDB, in a telephone interview from
Brasilia.  Brazil’s economy grew 0.6 percent in the third quarter from
the previous period, half the pace forecast by economists. The
government has enacted stimulus measures over the past year to
boost demand, including tax cuts for consumer and industrial
goods, pressured banks to lower lending spreads and has cut its
benchmark rate more than any other Group of 20 nation. Lower
growth has not succeeded in taming inflation.  The president’s coalition is “becoming more fragile and so
just might vote according to the interests of their home state
instead of the president’s,” Rafael Cortez, a political analyst
from Tendencias Consultoria Integrada said.  “If lawmakers go through with this vote, the president is
likely to lose,” he said in a telephone interview from  Sao
Paulo .  Congress last overrode a presidential veto in August 2005
when President Luis Inacio Lula da Silva vetoed a 15 percent
wage increase for congressional workers. Congress last sought an
override in 2010 while Lula was still president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  