-- Russia Stocks Snap Four Days of Gains as Norilsk Declines
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-12-11T15:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/russia-stocks-snap-four-days-of-gains-as-norilsk-declines.html
Russian stocks  rose for a fifth day,
the longest winning streak in more than a year, as crude oil
climbed and telecom shares led gains.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added as much as 0.4 percent before closing
up less than 0.1 percent at 1,448.43 by the close in Moscow, the
longest streak of gains since September 2011. Telecom industry
shares rose 1.5 percent on average.  OAO MegaFon (MFON) ,  Russia ’s
second-biggest mobile-phone company, surged as much as 2.8
percent in Moscow and 3.4 percent in London trading before the
stock is added to the MSCI Inc.’s Russia Index. OAO Rostelecom
rose 2 percent. OAO Mechel, the country’s largest coking coal
producer, increased 2.8 percent, the biggest gainer.  Oil jumped as much as 1 percent to $86.37, rebounding from
the lowest close in almost a month in New York as German
investor confidence jumped in December on speculation  Europe ’s
largest economy will gather momentum next year. Standard &
Poor’s GSCI commodities index increased 0.2 percent. The  RTS 
Index rose 0.3 percent to 1,484.50.  “Oil is keeping the Russian stocks at a strong level,”
Sergey Kucherenko, who manages about $50 million in Russian
equities at Nomos Bank in Moscow, said by phone. “The overall
mood in the market is positive. We may see RTS rising another 2
percent in the next few days.”  The number of shares traded on the Micex was 13 percent
below the gauge’s 30-day average, according to Bloomberg data.  Norilsk Dividends  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel fell 2.1 percent to 5,266 rubles,
the sharpest drop in a month. More than 853,000 shares traded
hands, equivalent to about 2.5 times the stock’s three-month
daily average. Norilsk, which has the fifth-highest weighting in
the Micex at 6 percent, slid on investor speculation the world’s
largest producer of the metal may pay smaller dividends than
expected.  The shareholders agreed that Norilsk may distribute at
least $9 billion in dividends over three years, three people
familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the plan isn’t public, said today. That’s down from an initial
projection of more than $10 billion that the three people gave
last week. The figure is lower because the final agreement has
Roman Abramovich buying stock from shareholders and not treasury
stock from the company.  Abramovich’s Millhouse LLC will hold 5.87 percent of
Norilsk after the world’s top supplier of nickel and palladium
retires treasury stock equal to 17 percent of the company,
United Co. Rusal and billionaire Vladimir Potanin’s Interros
holding said in a joint statement today. Rusal increased 1.4
percent to 194.80 rubles, the highest level since June 21.  Abramovich may increase his Norilsk stake to 7.5 percent or
as much as 10 percent by buying shares from the market, RIA
Novosti reported, citing an unidentified person with knowledge
of discussions.  The Micex trades at about 5.5 times  estimated earnings 
after adding 3.3 percent this year. That compares with a
multiple of 10.6 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index,
which has gained 13 percent.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  