-- Scorpio Seen Rising as Tanker Rates Gain Most Since ’08: Freight
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-12-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/scorpio-seen-rising-as-tanker-rates-gain-most-since-08-freight.html
Rising Asian demand for naphtha and
a shortage of ships hauling the oil product used in everything
from Barbie dolls to car parts will boost freight rates to a
four-year high and return  Scorpio Tankers (STNG)  Inc. to profit.  European ports loaded 1.35 million metric tons in November,
the most since January 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from shipbrokers’ reports. The tankers will earn
$16,250 a day in 2013, 52 percent above prevailing rates this
year, the median of four analyst estimates shows. Shares of
Scorpio Tankers, which operates 30 vessels, will gain 21 percent
in the next 12 months, based on the average of nine predictions.  Rates are surging after owners switched tankers to more
profitable crude oil and other so-called dirty cargoes in the
past two years. The vessels need to be decontaminated before
they can carry refined products again. That diminished a glut of
tanker capacity just as  imports by Japan , Asia’s third-biggest
buyer, expanded in the longest streak since 2007.  “Demand is stronger than it has been for years,” said
Robert Bugbee, the New York-based president of Scorpio Tankers.
“We have seen the fundamental trend for tanker rates to Asia
shift for the better. The market for naphtha is exceeding our
expectations, and so we are much more optimistic.”  Biggest Fleet  Shares of Monaco-based Scorpio Tankers gained 34 percent to
$6.53 in  New York  trading this year, compared with a 21 percent
slump in the 11-member  Russell 2000 Shipping Index. (RGUSPSSH)  The stock
will reach $7.87 in 12 months, the highest since July 2011, the
analyst predictions show. The company will report net income of
$5.73 million for next year, against a loss of $23 million in
2012, according to the mean of six estimates. Profit is expected
to reach $24.6 million in 2014.  Other owners include Hellerup, Denmark-based  Torm A/S (TORM) ,
which operates  Europe ’s biggest fleet. Shares of the company,
which deferred debt repayments five times since December,
tumbled 47 percent in Copenhagen trading this year. Torm will
narrow its net loss to $115 million in 2013 from $297 million
for this year, the mean of six estimates showed.  Rates slumped to a record low of $1,516 a day in March as
 Japan ’s naphtha stockpiles contracted to the smallest since
1995, government data show. Industrial production plunged after
the temblor and tsunami in March 2011 shut nuclear power plants,
curbing electricity supply to factories. As manufacturing
accelerated, naphtha imports expanded every month since August,
the longest streak in five years, according to government data.  Gasoil Shipments  Declining rates spurred  owners  to switch 44 tankers to fuel
oil and other dirty cargoes since the start of 2011, data from
London-based E.A. Gibson Shipbrokers Ltd. show. To carry refined
products, the ships would first have to clean their tanks and
then haul three gasoil cargoes at a discount before they could
be chartered for naphtha again, according to ICAP Shipping
International Ltd. in  London .  The fleet expanded faster than demand for eight consecutive
years, according to London-based Clarkson Plc, the world’s
biggest shipbroker. Owners accelerated orders for new vessels in
2008, when freight rates were three times higher than this year,
and capacity grew 25 percent since then. Cargo volumes rose 13
percent over the same period.  Stalling economic growth would curb demand for the plastic
consumer goods made with the ethylene derived from naphtha. The
oil product is also used to make gasoline. The 17-nation euro
area slumped back into a recession last quarter and the
International Monetary Fund cut its 2013 global growth forecast
twice since July, to 3.6 percent.  Largest Importer  Japan sank into recession in the third quarter, when gross
domestic product shrank an annualized 3.5 percent after
contracting in the prior three months, the Cabinet Office said
yesterday.  China , Asia’s biggest naphtha buyer, slowed for seven
consecutive quarters before this one, and South Korea, the
region’s second-largest importer, grew 0.1 percent during the
three months through September, central bank data show.  Next year’s projected tanker rate would still only be about
$3,250 more than owners need to break even, according to
estimates from RS Platou Markets AS, an Oslo-based investment
bank. The five-year average is $18,999 and returns reached
$76,228 in August 2008, Clarkson data show.  Rates may keep rising because the pace of new vessels
leaving ship yards is slowing. The global fleet of product
tankers will expand 1.8 percent in 2013 as trade gains 4.8
percent,  Clarkson (CKN)  estimates.  Manufacturing Index  The number of vessels hauling naphtha to Asia in October
was almost 40 percent higher than in July, according to Poten &
Partners Inc., a New York-based shipbroker and consultant.
Japan’s industrial output gained 1.8 percent in October, the
most since December 2011, government data show. China said Dec.
1 its official manufacturing index reached a seven-month high.  Scorpio has been expanding its fleet as naphtha demand
strengthened, Bugbee said. That included chartering a ship for
six months from January, with options to extend that by another
18 months.  “It’s Japan’s acceleration in imports that has been the
driving force behind the increased cargo demand,” said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an Oslo-based analyst at Arctic Securities ASA
whose recommendations on the shares of shipping companies
returned 15 percent in the past year. “Product tankers look
increasingly attractive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  