-- Sears Canada Mines 60-Year-Old Database for Turnaround
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-12-11T22:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/sears-canada-mines-60-year-old-database-for-turnaround.html
Sears Canada Inc. (SCC)  is betting on
using its 60-year-old credit card database, the largest in the
country, to create advertising for targeted customers and help
return the retailer to profitability by 2014.  “We recognize it as a huge opportunity, it’s been under-
leveraged,” Chief Executive Officer Calvin McDonald, 41, said
in an interview at the company’s Toronto headquarters last week.
“We’re on it.”  Sears Canada , which has reported 12 straight quarters of
sales declines, delved into its database for the relaunch of its
Jessica women’s brand in September, analyzing customers’ past
purchases to determine who it should choose for exclusive
discounts by direct mail and e-mail.  The company, which operates the biggest chain of department
stores in Canada, is running pilot programs to see how else it
can use the database of addresses, contact information and
shopping history for 4.5 million credit card holders, McDonald
said. The shopping history may be a competitive advantage over
Minneapolis-based  Target Corp. (TGT) , which plans to open 125 to 135
stores in Canada starting next year, and Bentonville, Arkansas-
based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   “The key leap here is the power to figure out what’s going
to happen in the future, how long is it before someone is ready
to purchase a new mattress?”  David Smith , vice president of
marketing at Revolution Analytics, a  software company  that makes
analytical tools for statisticians, said by phone from  Palo
Alto ,  California .  Loyal Shoppers  Canadians are some of the most enthusiastic adopters of
customer loyalty programs in the world, with 92 percent
belonging to some type of program, according to a survey by
Maritz LLC, a St. Louis-based sales and marketing services firm.  Sears Canada cut its loss by almost  50 percent  in the third
quarter to 22 cents a share from a year earlier. Revenue dropped
6.8 percent to C$1.04 billion as the retailer reduced
promotional and clearance sales. Sears Canada fell 1.3 percent
percent to C$10.90 at the close in Toronto today and has dropped
59 percent in the past five years, compared with a 20 percent
decline in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Consumer Discretionary
Index.  Sears Canada was spun off from its U.S. parent,  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  in November. The U.S. company, controlled by
hedge-fund manager  Edward Lampert , distributed 44.5 percent of
the outstanding stock to its shareholders, retaining a 51
percent interest. Lampert didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  Data Analysis  U.S. retailers pioneered this kind of data analysis,
gaining the ability to use a person’s address and purchase
history to figure out everything from income to age and race,
and plugging that information into algorithms that suggest
products an individual is likely to buy, Smith said. Target is
particularly adept at learning things about its customers, Smith
said.  Target is still several months from opening stores in
Canada and couldn’t comment on its use of targeted marketing or
data mining in the country, Molly Snyder, a spokeswoman, said in
an e-mail.  “It probably isn’t used as much in Canada as it is in the
States, but Sears has got to have a tremendous database and I
think if used prudently and aggressively it can work,” said
 John Williams , a senior partner at retail consultant J.C.
Williams Group by phone from Toronto.  “We’re going to continue to take away marketing dollars
from mass marketing and fund it into direct-to-consumer
marketing,” McDonald said, declining to give an exact figure.  McDonald, who became CEO in June 2011, is in the first year
of a three-year turnaround plan he says will make the company
profitable by 2014.  Fewer Sales  He is looking to stage fewer, more effective sales as a way
to protect margins and convince customers to consider Sears for
a broader range of products, and is looking to personalized
marketing to help him do this, he said.  “As Target comes in, there’s going to be more and more
competition, and one way to drive competition is to lower
prices, and by doing this kind of customized offering you may be
able to mitigate that somewhat,” said Alex Arifuzzaman,  a
partner at Toronto-based retail consulting firm InterStratics
Consultants Inc. by phone. “So margins are going to be the key
things as competition heats up.”  McDonald is focusing resources on what he calls “hero
shops,” where Sears already claims the first or second largest
market share in  Canada , like major appliances, mattresses,
women’s dresses and mens formal wear.  Rural Stores  At the same time, Sears is dialing back or exiting under-
performing categories, like electronics and toys. This
Christmas, Sears will keep only the top 15 toys on store
shelves, reserving the full compliment for their online store.  Data and analytics will help Sears further refine their
product mix as they pare down and refocus the business, McDonald
said.  Sears is taking a similar approach to their portfolio of
122 department stores across Canada, focusing on the rural and
mid-market communities where there is less competition, and
their product offering is more distinct.  “It’s how our business grew up, our business back in 1953
started in rural Canada,” McDonald said.  Sears has renovated stores in eight small towns and cities
as it exited leases in Calgary, Ottawa and  Vancouver  which have
since been picked up by Seattle-based  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  as part of
its Canadian debut in 2014. Sears is currently working on its
strategy for urban markets, McDonald said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  