-- SEC Sues Consultant Who Arranged Chinese Reverse Mergers
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-12-11T20:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/sec-sues-consultant-who-arranged-chinese-reverse-mergers.html
A New Jersey-based consultant who
helped Chinese firms become listed on U.S. exchanges stole money
raised for a client and manipulated stock-trading data to
artificially reach the number of shareholders a company needed
to go public, U.S. regulators said.  Huakang “David” Zhou and his consulting firm Warner
Technology and Investment Corp. located more than 20 private
companies in  China  from at least 2007 to 2010 to bring public in
the U.S. through so-called reverse mergers, the Securities and
Exchange Commission said in a lawsuit filed today at federal
court in  Manhattan . Several of the firms have since failed,
including at least one that collapsed amid fraud allegations,
the SEC said.  The lawsuit, which accuses Zhou of using the stolen money
to pay his son’s mortgage, marks the latest move in a broader
SEC probe targeting the financial statements of firms based in
China that have listed their shares on U.S. exchanges. The SEC,
which has deregistered the securities of almost 50 companies and
filed fraud cases against more than 40 issuers and executives as
part of the investigation, has also targeted auditors who have
refused to turn over documents, citing Chinese law.  “Zhou and his firm sought to take advantage of our
financial markets by propping up some Chinese issuers with the
sole purpose of enriching themselves at the expense of U.S.
investors,” Andrew Calamari, head of the SEC’s regional office
in  New York , said in a statement.  Many of them entered U.S. capital markets through reverse
mergers, in which a closely held firm buys a shell company
already public on an exchange, allowing them to list shares
without the scrutiny of a public offering. Zhou’s firm
advertises itself as the first U.S. consulting firm that
successfully brought a Chinese private company public in the
U.S. through a reverse merger, the SEC said.  Robert Brantl, Zhou’s attorney, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  