-- Siguler Guff May Raise Second Distressed Property Fund
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-12-11T19:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/siguler-guff-may-raise-second-distressed-property-fund.html
Siguler Guff & Co. , a U.S. private-
equity firm that expanded into troubled real estate during the
credit crisis, is poised to raise a second property fund to
acquire assets while prices remain below 2007 highs.  “Given the opportunities in the marketplace, we have
deployed the capital in our first fund fairly rapidly,” said
James Corl, a managing director in charge of distressed real
estate investing at the New York-based firm. He declined to
comment on potential fundraising.  A new pool would follow the firm’s $630 million Distressed
Real Estate Opportunities Fund from 2010, which invested with
more than 12 managers including  Lennar Corp. (LEN) ’s Rialto Capital
Management LLC unit and a real estate fund run by Paulson & Co.,
the hedge-fund firm owned by  John Paulson , who made billions
betting against subprime mortgages.  “If there’s one theme throughout all the managers we’ve
partnered with, it’s that they’re good at timing the cycle,”
Corl said in an interview. “They know how to sell at the top
and be aggressive bargain hunters at the bottom.”  Closely held Siguler Guff, which manages more than $10
billion, is among companies expanding property holdings after
the demise of several of Wall Street’s largest real estate fund
investors, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Whitehall unit
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The once-dominant groups were
undone by borrowing excessively to acquire assets during the
commercial-property bubble that burst in 2007.  Below Peak  U.S. commercial real estate prices remain 22 percent below
their peak after climbing 28 percent from the November 2009
bottom to October of this year, according to a report on the
Moody’s/RCA Commercial Property Price Indices released today.  Siguler Guff’s initial real estate pool made its
commitments through funds, joint ventures, separate accounts and
direct investments in properties. The firm invested more than
$200 million with Rialto and is the biggest investor in its
first fund.  Lennar’s Rialto buys delinquent and defaulted mortgages at
discounts to the original loan amounts and squeezes value out of
them by going after borrowers and working out repayment deals,
Corl said. The unit of the Miami-based homebuilder has bought
loans on retail and hotel properties with an average balance of
less than $2 million, a market overlooked by larger funds, he
said.  Florida Properties  Siguler Guff’s initial fund also pledged $56 million to
 Boca Raton , Florida-based Crocker Partners LLC, which redevelops
and manages office properties, including the Miami Center, a 34-
story downtown tower.  “Miami is transitioning from a secondary market into a
true gateway city, which will lead to occupancy and rent
growth,” Corl said.  Through a joint venture with Crocker, Siguler Guff last
month bought an office park outside Jacksonville,  Florida , for
about $40 a square foot, Corl said. The same property was valued
at more than $150 a square foot in 2005, he said.  The firm also has invested almost $60 million with Atlanta-
based Weeks Robinson Properties, an investment and development
firm co-founded by warehouse specialist Ray Weeks. Outside the
U.S., Siguler Guff has invested in properties in the U.K.,
 Germany  and the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  