-- Small Business Index in U.S. Plunges to Almost 3-Year Low
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2012-12-11T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/small-business-index-in-u-s-plunges-to-almost-3-year-low.html
Confidence among U.S. small
businesses plunged in November as owners grew increasingly
concerned the economy will slump, a survey found.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s  optimism
index  decreased 5.6 points to 87.5, the lowest reading since
March 2010, from 93.1 in October. It was the biggest drop in
monthly records going back to 1986 as eight of the measure’s 10
components fell, the Washington-based group said.  The election that returned President  Barack Obama  to office
and left congress split between a Democratic-controlled Senate
and a House led by Republicans may have raised concern that a
deal to avert automatic spending cuts and tax increases set to
take effect in January will be difficult to achieve. The survey
showed superstorm Sandy had little influence on the index.  The election “created much uncertainty among business
owners as to the future direction of economic policy and the
economy,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said
in a statement. “Apparently, the level of uncertainty was not
resolved in a way that was supportive of many small business
owners.”  Last month’s drop exceeded the 5.4-point decrease seen in
October 2008 in the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., and the 5.2-point fall in September 2001
following the terrorist attacks in the U.S.  The net share of businesses projecting conditions will
improve six months from now plunged 37 points to minus 35
percent, the lowest reading in data going back to 1999, today’s
report showed.  Sales Outlook  The respondents’ sales-outlook measure fell eight points to
minus 5 percent, and the proportion planning to make capital
investments in the next three to six months decreased three
points to 19 percent.  The labor-market components of the report were the only two
that showed gains. The index of those planning to create jobs
rose 1 point to 5 percent, and those finding it difficult to
fill openings also climbed 1 point to 17 percent, indicating the
jobless rate may keep falling.  Payrolls grew by a greater-than-forecast 146,000 in
November, and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to an
almost four-year low of 7.7 percent, the Labor Department
reported last week.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
with a positive response and adjusting the results for seasonal
variations.  Sandy’s Influence  The survey also tried to gauge the impact of Sandy by
eliminating the responses from owners in states most affected by
the worst Atlantic storm to ever hit the U.S.  “These data suggest that the decline in optimism was not
related to Sandy per se, as sentiment fell everywhere,”
Dunkelberg said in the statement.  Additionally, the figures called into question the Labor
Department’s statement last week that the storm “did not
substantively impact” their data. Reports of changes in
employment were 8 points worse in the Sandy-affected region than
in the rest of the country, the NFIB report found.  The small-business index is the second measure to suggest
confidence is waning as lawmakers try to hammer out a compromise
that will prevent more than $600 billion in tax increases and
government spending cuts from taking effect next year. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary  consumer
sentiment  index decreased in December by the most in more than a
year to reach a four-month low, a report showed last week.  The NFIB report was based on a survey of 733 small-business
owners through Nov. 30. Small companies represent more than 99
percent of all U.S. employers, according to the U.S. Small
Business Administration. A small business is defined as an
independent enterprise with no more than 500 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  