-- South Africa Manufacturing Gains 2.5% as Strike Effect Wanes
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-12-11T11:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/south-africa-manufacturing-gains-2-5-as-strike-effect-wanes.html
South African  manufacturing  output
rebounded in October as a series of mining and transportation
strikes tailed off.  Factory output rose 2.5 percent, compared with a revised
contraction of 1.7 percent in September, Pretoria-based
Statistics  South Africa (WHL)  said on its website today. The  median
estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of 13 economists was for growth
of 0.3 percent. Output rose 1.2 percent in the month.  Pay strikes that began in platinum mines in August spread
to gold, coal and iron-ore operations, with about 120,000
workers downing tools at the peak of the unrest, according to
the Chamber of Mines, an industry body. Labor action also
disrupted output in the transportation and agricultural
industries. The effect of the strikes on production began to
wane in October, as pay settlements were reached.  While output is reverting to normal levels, producers are
still struggling to find alternate markets for their goods
following a decline in demand from  Europe , which buys about a
third of the country’s manufactured exports. The 17-nation euro-
area economy will probably shrink 0.3 percent next year, the
European Central Bank said on Dec. 6.  “The data is better than expected, but I don’t think the
improvement is sustainable,”  Colen Garrow , chief economist at
Johannesburg-based Meganomics, said in a phone interview today.
Manufacturing is “going to remain on the weak side. We are not
getting enough of products out to the export market. A large
part of our destination markets are in recession.”  Interest Rate  The central bank held its benchmark repurchase rate at 5
percent on Nov. 22 after a surprise cut on July 19 to stimulate
the economy. South Africa’s gross domestic product will expand
2.5 percent this year, according to the bank.  Earlier today, the government statistics agency said  retail
sales  growth eased to an annual 1 percent in October, from a
revised 4.7 percent the month before. The  median estimate  in a
Bloomberg survey of 10 economists was for growth of 4 percent.
Sales fell 1.7 percent from a month earlier.  “The growth rate is likely to remain moderate in the
months ahead as weak  consumer confidence  and high debt make
consumers more cautious on spending on non-essential items,
while high inflation erodes disposable incomes, offsetting the
benefit of high wage settlements,”  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , South
Africa’s fourth-largest bank, said in an e-mailed note to
clients.  The rand declined as much as 0.3 percent to 8.6988 a dollar
and was trading at 8.6883 as of 1:23 p.m. in Johannesburg. The
yield on the government’s 6.75 bonds due March 2021 dropped 2
basis points to 6.49 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  