-- South African Retail Sales Growth Eases as Economy Stalls
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-12-11T08:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/south-african-retail-sales-growth-eases-as-economy-stalls.html
South African  retail sales  growth
slowed more than expected in October as the expansion in
Africa’s largest economy stalled and the  unemployment rate  rose.  Retail sales rose 1 percent from a year earlier, below the
revised 4.7 percent pace in September, Pretoria-based Statistics
 South Africa  said on its website today. The  median estimate  in a
Bloomberg survey of 10 economists was for growth of 4 percent.
Sales fell 1.7 percent from a month earlier.  South Africa’s economy expanded at the slowest pace in the
third quarter since a recession in 2009 after the worst mining
strikes since the end of apartheid and transportation-industry
protests curbed production. The unemployment rate rose to 25.5
percent from 24.9 percent in the previous quarter, weighing on
 consumer spending , which makes up about two-thirds of
expenditure in the economy.  “The growth rate is likely to remain moderate in the
months ahead as weak  consumer confidence  and high debt make
consumers more cautious on spending on non-essential items,
while high inflation erodes disposable incomes, offsetting the
benefit of high wage settlements,”  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , South
Africa’s fourth-largest bank, said in e-mailed comments.  Rand Drops  The rand declined as much as 0.3 percent to 8.6918 a dollar
and was trading at 8.6653 as of 10:29 a.m. in Johannesburg. The
yield on the government’s 6.75 bonds due March 2021 dropped 3
basis points to 6.48 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  cut its benchmark lending rate for the
first time in 20 months to 5 percent in July to stimulate
spending and spur growth. The bank’s Monetary Policy Committee
kept rates on hold on Nov. 22, saying that a weaker rand and
high wage settlements posed risks to the inflation outlook.  “Weak retail sales numbers suggest that demand-push
inflation is likely to remain contained,” Nedbank said. “We
believe that the Monetary Policy Committee will keep monetary
policy neutral over an extended period in order to balance weak
growth prospects and rising inflationary pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  