-- South Africa Says U.S. Should Adopt Carbon Budget by 2020
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-12-11T18:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/south-africa-says-u-s-should-adopt-carbon-budget-by-2020.html
The U.S. should provide more detail
about its probable emissions and consider installing a U.K.-like
carbon budget to take advantage of global emissions markets by
2020, said a South African climate negotiator.  The U.S. should prepare to “take on a budget,” which is
an emissions limit for a set period of years, starting by 2020,
Alf Wills, the African nation’s chief negotiator, said Dec. 8 in
an interview in Doha. In the meantime, many richer nations need
to start making commitments comparable to that deal, which sets
targets for 37 countries, he said.  In return, nations may then grant the U.S. and other
nations without a mandatory reduction target easier access to
tradable credits, including from new markets, he said. Certified
Emission Reductions for this month today fell 25 percent to a
record 46 euro cents ($0.60) a metric ton on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in  London . The U.K. has installed a program of
 carbon budgets  through 2050.  Todd Stern,  Barack Obama ’s senior climate envoy at the
United Nations talks in Doha, which ended Dec. 8, declined to
say how a post-2020 global climate-protection deal might look.  “The challenge of governments using policy well and using
financial instruments well to leverage private capital is a huge
one and one of the most important ones going forward in the next
few years,” Stern said Dec. 8 in an interview in Doha as the
talks were wrapping up. “We and many other countries are
working on that. But in terms of what the post-2020 regime is
going to look like, it’s way too early to tell.”  ‘Price Crashes’  Carbon markets don’t work well at the moment because most
nations including the U.S. are sitting outside them, Wills said.
They need to be drawn in over the next eight years as the world
negotiates carbon budgets or a Kyoto-like replacement, he said.  “The problem that you have is that when you start
generating supply of credits and you don’t match that with a
cognizant increase in demand through a carbon-budget approach,
then the price crashes, which we have witnessed,” Wills said.  Emission Reduction Units created by nations currently
taking part in the Kyoto Protocol, including  Russia , Ukraine and
the European Union, dropped 29 percent today to a record 25 euro
cents a metric ton on ICE Futures.  “You’ve got 10 gigatons of hot air in the system. You’ve
got 20 percent of the world emissions, which is the U.S., not
participating in that system,” he said. “The answers are
simple in theoretical terms. Political terms, not so simple.”  Emissions Growth  South Africa paid for a  Green Fund  which will provide 800
million rand ($92 million) from April this year through March
2014 to help move the nation’s economy to a lower-carbon
foothold, according to the website of the nation’s environmental
affairs department.  The pace of growth in global greenhouse-gas emissions from
energy use slowed to 3 percent last year from 5 percent in 2010,
according to  BP Plc. (BP/)  U.S. output dropped 1.8 percent to 6
billion tons of carbon dioxide, 18 percent of the global total
and ranked second behind  China ’s 26 percent. The U.S. has a
population of 320 million compared with China’s 1.4 billion.  “At this point in time the Americans don’t support a
carbon-budget approach, so this is one of the major difficulties
we have,” Wills said.  Obama’s re-election and what it means for global-warming
policy was the biggest question at the UN talks. Ministers
agreed to streamline their negotiations, focusing on the 2015
goal and reviving the push for a treaty that failed in 2009 in
Copenhagen. They also renewed pollution limits under the Kyoto
Protocol.  ‘Carbon Budget Feasible’  “The idea of a carbon budget is feasible in the U.S. if it
is linked to tax reform and is budget neutral,” Daniel Rossetto
, managing director of Climate Mundial Ltd., a London-based
consulting company that works in carbon markets and a former
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive. “Just putting a price on carbon
will be viewed as a new tax and this will not be popular.”  Like in  Australia , the U.S. should use new revenues
collected by government through a carbon program to fund cuts in
other existing taxes on businesses and families, Rossetto said.  “Then we have an affordable and politically acceptable
opportunity for the U.S.,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  