-- Spain to Provide Regions Up to $30 Billion of Funding for 2013
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-12-11T16:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/spain-to-provide-regions-up-to-30-billion-of-funding-for-2013.html
Spain  will lend as much as 23
billion euros ($30 billion) next year to regional governments
that can’t sell debt on their own, adding to the Treasury’s
borrowing needs.  The so-called regional liquidity mechanism will provide as
much as 18 billion euros this year and that figure will swell to
as much as 23 billion euros in 2013, the Madrid-based Treasury
said in a presentation on its  website  today. The debt agency
hasn’t yet set out its issuance program for 2013.  The bailout mechanism was created in July as an emergency
measure to prevent cash-strapped regions defaulting. Nine of the
17 semi-autonomous states plan to use it this year. Their demand
for cash has outstripped what the central government is prepared
to offer. Fitch Ratings estimates that Catalonia alone has about
14 billion euros of debt maturing in 2013.  Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro is trying to
extract spending cuts from the regions in exchange for liquidity
as he pushes them to slash their deficits by half this year.
Some regions are pushing back against central government
demands, including Catalonia and the Basque Country, which is
locked in a legal battle with the central government over
whether it can pay public workers the traditional Christmas
bonus this year.  The states’ combined debt has doubled in four years to 151
billion euros, almost 20 percent of Spain’s total borrowing,
according to the Bank of Spain. That’s helped swell the overall
debt burden, which the European Commission forecasts will jump
to 86 percent of GDP this year from 69 percent in 2011.  Only 8.2 percent of regional borrowing this year was done
through public debt sales, according to Madrid-based advisory
firm Analistas Financieros Internacionales. While the region of
 Madrid  continues to sell debt to investors, states including
Andalusia, the most populous, and Catalonia, which has the
biggest economy, remain locked out of markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  