-- Ctrip.com Tops Jump on Economy Optimism: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-12-11T22:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/spreadtrum-tops-jump-on-economy-optimism-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  climbed for a fifth
day in  New York , the longest stretch of gains since October, as
signs Asia’s biggest economy is rebounding overshadowed
disappointing new loans data.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 0.5 percent to a five-week high
of 94.89 yesterday.  Sina Corp. (SINA)  jumped the most in three weeks
and  AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. (AMAP)  extended a two-day rally as the
companies said they were teaming up to allow customers to share
their services. Video website owner Youku Tudou Inc. surged the
most in three months while web travel agency  Ctrip.com
International Ltd. (CTRP)  rose for a fifth day.  November industrial output and retail sales data released
Dec. 10 exceeded economists predictions, bolstering the outlook
for an economy that may grow 8 percent in 2013, the official
People’s Daily reported yesterday, citing Zhu Baoliang, chief
economist at the State Information Center. The government, which
gets new leaders in March, set a 7.5 percent expansion target
for 2012. The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.4 percent
yesterday as central bank data showed the amount of new loans
issued in November trailed the median analyst forecast.  “There’s plenty of evidence pointing to  China’s economy 
bottoming in the third quarter, and the official growth target
this year will be met,” Audrey Kaplan, the lead manager of the
$532 million Federated InterContinental Fund at Federated Global
Investment Management, said by phone from New York yesterday.
“We’ve raised our weighting on Chinese equities after  China ’s
leadership transition as we have a high conviction of its growth
potential going into next year.”  ETF Advances  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose for a sixth day, gaining
0.1 percent to $38.80. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7
percent to 1,427.84 after German investor confidence climbed and
on prospects there is progress in  federal budget  talks in
 Washington .  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  was little changed at
10,991.86 yesterday, while the Shanghai Composite gauge of
domestic shares fell to 2,074.70, dropping for the first time in
three days.  “The outlook continues to be quite positive for Chinese
equities,” Allan Conway, who oversees about $24 billion as the
head of emerging-market stocks at  Schroders Plc (SDR)  in  London , said
by phone yesterday. “Given the underlying economic strength and
current valuation of the Chinese stock market, there’s a
reasonable chance that you’ll see either performance in line or
better than  emerging markets  generally.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 12.9 percent
this year, compared with the 16 percent increase in the MSCI
gauge for Hong Kong-traded Chinese equities.  Content Partnership  Sina, owner of China’s Twitter-like Weibo service, jumped
4.4 percent to $43.17 in the biggest rally since Nov. 19.
AutoNavi, a provider of Chinese map content to companies
including Apple Inc. and to Sina, gained 4.5 percent to $11.35,
extending yesterday’s 10 percent rally.  Shanghai-based Sina, which reported more than 400 million
registered users of its Weibo service as of September, and
Beijing-based AutoNavi entered a partnership to give their
customers access to both Weibo and mapping services, according
to the companies’ joint statement yesterday.  The firms expect “such content and product integration
will enhance the social networking and navigational aspects of
each other’s mobile offerings,” according to the statement.  Online Censorship  China may have eased censorship of Sina’s Weibo service,
with users able to search names of some Chinese leaders on Dec.
10 that were previously blocked, and to post criticism, the
Telegraph newspaper reported, citing search results on Sina’s
Weibo.  Youku Tudou, which operates China’s most-popular video
websites, surged 5.6 percent to $15.50 yesterday in New York,
the steepest rally since Sept. 14.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a mobile-phone chipmaker,
climbed 5.6 percent to $15.80, the biggest jump in three months.
The Shanghai-based company said on Dec. 10 that the world’s
largest smartphone vendor, which it didn’t name, started
shipping phones with Spreadtrum’s SC8810 chip.  Spreadtrum’s chips are in low-cost smartphones for Samsung
Electronics Co., “a huge design win” for the Chinese company,
 Jay Srivatsa , the managing director of equity research at
Chardan Capital Markets LLC, who has a buy recommendation on the
shares, said by phone in New York on Dec. 10.  Ctrip.com surged 5.3 percent to $19.41, the biggest gain in
two weeks. The company’s American depositary receipts have
rallied for five days in a row, trimming their loss this year to
17 percent.  ‘Solid’ Growth  “While shares underperformed in 2012 due to increasing
competition and the resulting lower operating margins, we
believe stabilizing margins, solid revenue growth, a moderation
in the promotional environment, and share buybacks should serve
as a catalyst for shares,”  Aaron Kessler , an analyst at Raymond
James & Associates Inc., wrote in a Dec. 10 note.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) , a mobile security software developer,
rebounded 3.5 percent to $5.65 after tumbling 11 percent on Dec.
10, the biggest drop since May. The shares plunged after FJE
Research, a contributor to the website Seeking Alpha, said NQ
Mobile’s user base has been “inflated more than tenfold, while
the reality has deteriorated badly in recent months.” The
article noted that its author was shorting the stock.  Beijing-based NQ rejected as false the article’s
allegations in a statement yesterday, saying it “contains
numerous inaccuracies and misleading speculations based on
flawed arguments.”  Solar Targets  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , China’s third-largest maker of solar
panels, jumped 9 percent to a one-month high of $3.41.  Yingli
Green Energy Holdings Co. (YGE) , the fourth-biggest, climbed 3.4
percent to $1.81.  China may raise the expansion target of solar power
generation to as much as 40 gigawatts for the five-year period
from 2011 to 2015, from 21 gigawatts, Shanghai Securities News
reported yesterday, citing unidentified people in the industry.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Bloomberg China-US gauge
retreated to 19.19 yesterday from 19.88 a day earlier. The
 Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a basket
of companies that gained U.S. listings after buying firms that
already trade, climbed 0.3 percent to a one-week high of 74.06.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  