-- Sprint Is Said to Study Clearwire Takeover
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-12-11T21:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/sprint-is-said-to-study-clearwire-takeover.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  is studying
strategic options for its wireless partner  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) ,
including a full takeover of the business, according to two
people with knowledge of the situation.  As part of the discussions, Sprint is in talks to buy out
Clearwire’s minority  shareholders , said the people, who declined
to be identified because the talks aren’t public. Sprint, which
owns more than 50 percent of Clearwire, agreed to buy Eagle
River Holdings LLC’s 4.5 percent stake in the business in
October for $2.97 a share. A $3-a-share value will serve as a
benchmark for future transactions, one person said.  A deal may be announced by the end of the year, though
talks could still fall through, according to the people. The
discussions follow remarks by Sprint Chief Executive Officer Dan Hesse in October that buying out more investors in Clearwire was
under consideration. Sprint, the third-largest U.S. carrier, is
getting an influx of cash from  Japan ’s  Softbank Corp. (9984) , which
agreed to buy 70 percent of Sprint for about $20 billion.  “Any time there’s an opportunity at the right price to
take out a strategic investor, we will,” Hesse said in an
interview after the Softbank deal was announced in October.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment on speculation, as did Mike DiGioia,
a spokesman for Bellevue, Washington-based Clearwire.  Stock Surges  Clearwire shares  jumped 12 percent to $2.68 today after CNBC
first reported on the Sprint talks. The stock is up 38 percent 
this year.  Sprint said last month that it would be delaying the filing
of the proxy statement describing the Softbank deal until Dec.
21. That move allowed the company to continue the talks with
Clearwire, one of the people familiar with the matter said. The
filing might be postponed again as the discussions go on,
according to the person.  Sprint originally formed the Clearwire joint venture in
2008, relying on $3.2 billion in investments from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
Intel Corp., and cable companies such as Comcast Corp. and  Time
Warner Cable (TWC)  Inc. The idea was to build a national wireless
network that could compete with Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T)   Clearwire never lived up to those ambitions, and the
project has yet to break even. Along the way, partners such as
Google and Time Warner Cable have sold their stakes for a
fraction of their original value.  Still, Clearwire owns a broad swath of airwaves that
blanket the country. Having full control of those assets would
help Sprint shore up its wireless network at a time when
smartphones and tablets are fueling a surge in data traffic.  “With Clearwire’s spectrum and Softbank’s cash, Sprint
could finally differentiate itself with the fastest networks and
enough capacity for some very compelling pricing,” said Walt Piecyk, an analyst with research shop BTIG LLC in New York.
“This could make for a very interesting wireless industry in
the United States.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  