-- Swiss Stocks Rally to Four-Year High; Novartis Gains
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-12-11T17:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/swiss-stocks-rally-to-four-year-high-novartis-gains.html
Swiss stocks  climbed, with the Swiss
Market Index closing at the highest level in more than four
years, as German investor confidence exceeded forecasts.  Novartis AG (NOVN) , which accounts for 19 percent of the SMI by
weight, rose for a fourth day.  AFG (AFGN)  Arbonia-Forster Holding AG
advanced 2.7 percent after saying it will reduce the size of its
management team.  The SMI added 0.4 percent to 6,973.69 at the close of
trading in Zurich, gaining for a fourth day in its longest
winning streak in five weeks. The equity benchmark posted its
highest close since Sept. 19, 2008, the week after the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The broader Swiss Performance
Index also increased 0.4 percent today.  “German ZEW data turned out to be  much better than
expected,” said Jean-Paul Jeckelmann, chief investment officer
at Banque Bonhote & Cie. in Neuchatel, Switzerland. “As this
index is highly correlated with short-term activity, it means
that we can expect an improvement in economic activity in the
first quarter of 2013.”  The  SMI (SMI)  has  rallied 22 percent  from this year’s low on June
4 as the European Central Bank unveiled an unlimited bond-buying
plan. The volume of shares changing hands today in companies on
the index was 24 percent lower than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investor Confidence  In  Germany , investor confidence jumped in December. The ZEW
Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim said its  index 
of investor and analyst expectations, which aims to predict
economic developments six months in advance, climbed to 6.9 from
minus 15.7 in November. Economists had forecast a gain to minus
11.5, according to the  median  of 38 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  “After the setback in November, the economic expectations
increased significantly and are in positive territory again for
the first time since May,” Viola Julien, an analyst at Helaba
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt , wrote in an e-mail.
“Together with the robust assessment, it provides a positive
indication for the German purchasing managers’ index.” The
first reading of Germany’s PMI for this month is due on Dec. 14.  Fed rate setters began a two-day meeting today. The
officials will consider whether to supplement $40 billion a
month of mortgage-bond purchases with Treasury purchases. The
central bank will publish updated projections on economic
growth, unemployment and inflation tomorrow.  U.S. Budget  U.S. politicians need to agree on a budget to prevent more
than $600 billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts
from coming into effect next year. President  Barack Obama  and
Republican House Speaker John Boehner met at the weekend at the
White House. Representatives for the two said in statements that
“the lines of communication remain open.”  In  Italy , Prime Minister Mario Monti said that his decision
to resign and the elections due early next year will not lead to
a political vacuum in the country.  Novartis rose 0.7 percent to 58.85 Swiss francs. The
company told an American Society of Hematology meeting that its
Jakavi drug reduced the burden of myelofibrosis in trials. It
also said tests revealed its Tasigna drug has benefits compared
with Glivec as a treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia.  “These two sets of results are important to Novartis in
two ways,” Olav Zilian and Odile Rundquist, analysts at Helvea
SA in Geneva, wrote in a report. “Tasigna is being positioned
as the more efficacious follow-up compound to Glivec to protect
this franchise. Jakavi, on the other hand, is a novel type of
therapy for myelofibrosis where no efficacious therapy has been
available before.”  Health-care companies contributed the most to the SMI’s
advance, with  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of
cancer drugs, rising 0.9 percent to 188.60 francs.  Lonza Group
AG (LONN)  gained 1.4 percent to 48.52 francs and  Sonova Holding AG (SOON) 
gained 0.9 percent to 106.90 francs.  AFG advanced 2.7 percent to 22.50 francs after the maker of
heaters, windows, doors and refrigeration systems said it will
reduce the size of its management and adapt its strategy to
concentrate on construction materials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  