-- Swiss Structured Product Trades Drop to 6 Month Low in November
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-12-11T09:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/swiss-structured-product-trades-drop-to-6-month-low-in-november.html
Trading of structured products on
 Switzerland ’s Scoach exchange dropped to a six-month low in
November as investors shunned risk and volatility on the
country’s main stock index fell to the lowest since 2006.  The volume of traded certificates and warrants declined to
2.29 billion Swiss francs ($2.36 billion), down 5 percent from
the previous month and the smallest total since 2.26 billion
francs in May, according to the exchange, which is run by Six
Group and  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   Swiss investors are responding to  Europe ’s debt crisis by
steering clear of equities and structured products based on
them, according to Andre Buck, Scoach’s Zurich-based head of
sales and marketing. Stock-linked products account for as much
as 80 percent of the securities traded on Scoach.  “Investors have tired of the euro crisis and the U.S.
fiscal cliff, while low volatility has harmed trading,” Buck
said.  Trading in stocks and equity-based exchange-traded funds on
the Six Swiss Exchange, Scoach’s parent, was 2.7 percent lower
in November compared with the previous month, according to the
exchange.  Meanwhile, three-month  implied volatility  for at-the-money
options on Switzerland’s benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  declined
to 10.25 on Nov. 30, the lowest point since Feb. 23, 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge tracks prices
for options, which are embedded in structured notes.  Structured product issuers that have sold securities such
as leveraged call warrants will typically buy shares in the
underlying stock to hedge their exposure, Buck said. When
volatility is lower, issuers will be less active stock buyers,
he said.  Trading in leveraged products, which account for 52 percent
of the 30.05 billion Swiss franc market this year, slowed to
1.09 billion Swiss francs in November, the least since at least
January 2006, when the Swiss Structured Products Association
began publishing data on the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  