-- Syrian Rebels Seek More Global Support at Morocco Meeting
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-12-11T06:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/syrian-rebels-seek-more-global-support-at-morocco-meeting.html
The rebels battling Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad have been seeking recognition, money and
resources for months. Now that they’ve started making
significant progress toward ousting him, they might get some.  What’s spurring the U.S. and its allies into action 21
months after the rebellion began are the radical Islamists
associated with al-Qaeda who are flocking to the fight and
concern that Assad’s regime may be preparing to use chemical
weapons, said three United Nations Security Council officials.
The officials, who are tracking developments, asked not to be
identified because the Council hasn’t decided how to respond.  As the conflict approaches a turning point, U.S. Deputy
Secretary of State  William Burns  will join the leaders of other
nations and organizations opposed to Assad at a meeting in
Marrakesh,  Morocco  tomorrow to discuss how to usher him out
while averting the kind of chaos that’s engulfed Somalia and
other failed states.  “This is shaping up to be just about the best chance so
far of trying to mitigate some of the effects on the ground,”
said Salman Shaikh, director of the  Brookings Institution ’s Doha
Center in Qatar. “The opposition is not the best it could be by
any stretch of the imagination, but it has built momentum.”  ‘Useless’ Meetings  The loose-knit anti-Assad alliance of exiles and insiders,
secular figures and  Sunni Muslim  Islamists is united more by a
shared hatred of the Assad regime than by a common vision of
 Syria ’s future.  Diplomacy has failed to prevent Syria’s descent into a
bloody civil war that’s killed at least 40,000 people, according
to opposition estimates. Still, last week’s emergency meeting in
Dublin among top diplomats from the U.S.,  Russia  and the  United
Nations , coupled with the opposition’s recent gains, mean that
the gathering in Morocco has the potential to break the gridlock
after a series of what Shaikh called largely “useless”
meetings.  The U.K. and France -- as they did in  Libya  -- have paved
the way for the U.S. by recognizing the opposition alliance,
which was rechristened the National Coalition for Syrian
Revolutionary and Opposition Forces at a meeting last month in
Doha, Qatar.  Sectarian Conflict  The U.S. is seeking to draw a bright-line distinction
between the opposition alliance -- which it may recognize this
week -- and the radical Islamists who have proven to be among
the most determined fighters. Burns is representing the U.S. in
the place of Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who last night
canceled her plans to attend because of illness, according to
her aide Philippe Reines.  The U.S. and its allies want to bolster the moderates at a
time when the fighting has increasingly split Syria along
sectarian lines, with a Sunni Muslim-led opposition confronting
a government whose top officials, including Assad, are drawn
from the minority Alawite sect, affiliated to Shiite Islam.  The Syrian violence is creating an environment “that
extremists can now try to exploit,” State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday.  Burns will arrive to Marrakesh as the U.S. adds the al-
Nusra Front -- one of the most successful rebel military  groups
-- to its terrorist list, citing its ties to al-Qaeda in  Iraq ,
an extremist Sunni group designated a terrorist organization in
2004.  ‘Bearded Extremists’  “All rebels are fighting to topple the regime of Bashar
al-Assad, and before we designate anybody or accuse anyone of
being a terrorist we should tell what they have done to
terrorize others,” the Free Syrian Army new military command,
Brigadier General Salim Idris, told al-Jazeera television
yesterday. “Not everyone wearing a beard is an extremist.”  The al-Nusra decision complicates the Obama
administration’s stance on the opposition, said  Andrew Tabler , a
senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
While the U.S. has counterterrorism concerns, Tabler said, most
Syrians welcome al-Nusra’s successes.  “It’s being seen as something where the U.S. is more
concerned with counter-terrorism issues than the plight of the
Syrian people,” Tabler said in an interview. “On Facebook, on
blogs, people are very angry.”  ‘Mad Rush’  As the U.S. tries to isolate al-Nusra, it’s offering
backing to the new Syrian opposition to create an alternative to
extremist factions, said  Joshua Landis , director of the Center
for Middle East Studies at the University of  Oklahoma , said in a
telephone interview.  “They’re trying to create some momentum and belief to
counter this mad rush to Salafism,” Landis said, referring to
ultraconservative Sunni interpretation of Islam. “They need to
prove Western secular ideas have a place here, so Syrians have
another place to throw their lot.”  U.S. support to the opposition to date has been for
humanitarian assistance and non-lethal equipment such as
communications gear. Qatar has been arming the opposition,
citing the three vetoes cast by Russia in the  Security Council 
that have blocked UN action against Assad.  Assad’s military has lost control of barracks, heavy
weapons,  oil fields  and roads. Rebel fighters have control of
mainly Sunni Muslim areas stretching from the northeastern
outskirts of the capital to the southwest of the city.  Bleak Picture  “It’s over,” Syrian Brigadier General Manaf Tlas, who
defected in July, told Dubai TV on Dec. 9. Tlas, a Sunni Muslim
like the overwhelming majority of the Syrian rebels, was a
confidant of Assad, who’s a member of the minority Alawite sect,
an offshoot of Shiite Islam.  United Nations special envoy Lakhdar Brahimi gave the
Security Council a bleak picture of what may come of Syria in a
Nov. 30 briefing: “Institutions withering away, lawlessness
spreading, warlordism, banditry, narcotics, arms smuggling, and
worst of all, the ugly face of communal and sectarian strife.”  At the Dublin meeting last week, Brahimi told Clinton and
Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  that he wanted to try
again to implement a transition plan envisioned by his
predecessor,  Kofi Annan . Brahimi has kept a low profile for the
last three months.  The worst-case scenario, dubbed “Somalia” by UN
diplomats, might emerge if the rebels refuse to negotiate and
Assad or his generals unleash chemical weapons -- a move that
would drag in outside forces, according to  Richard Gowan ,
associate director of  New York  University’s Center on
International Cooperation.  Revenge Attacks  No matter how the war ends, there will be a wave of revenge
attacks against Assad’s Alawite minority, and possibly other
ethnic and religious groups, Gowan said. Moreover, the rebels
often lack discipline and have no strong central control, and
they’ve already committed atrocities, although not on the scale
of those carried out by pro-Assad forces and militias, he said.  The more surprising scenario would be if Assad were
persuaded to step aside.  That possibility hinges on several improbable “ifs,”
Shaikh said. First, the Americans and Russians, who’ve been
mistrustful of each other for months, would have to reach an
understanding about Assad’s future and what would replace him.
Second, it’s not clear how much leverage Russia has over a Cold
War-era ally and arms customer, he said.  “We don’t have anything yet, and nobody should be, you
know, sanguine about whether this is going to be easier, whether
this is going to be quick,” Nuland said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  