-- U.K. Watchdog Says Markets Would Take AAA-Rating Loss in Stride
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-12-11T12:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/u-k-watchdog-says-markets-would-take-aaa-rating-loss-in-stride.html
Any loss of Britain’s top credit
rating would have little impact on financial markets because
investors would have already factored in the reasons for a
downgrade, the government’s fiscal watchdog said.  “We have seen other countries suffer that and it’s not had
a noticeable impact on market views,”  Robert Chote , director of
the  Office for Budget Responsibility , told Parliament’s Treasury
Committee in  London  today.  In the case of the U.K., ratings don’t provide a good guide
to the likelihood of a default because they fail to take account
of the fact that the country can “basically print its own
currency,” Chote said during testimony on Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne ’s autumn statement last week.  Osborne conceded he is no longer on course to begin cutting
the burden of government debt in 2015, prompting  Fitch Ratings 
to warn that that missing the target “weakens the credibility
of the U.K.’s fiscal framework, which is one of the factors
supporting” the country’s AAA rating.  The chancellor staked his political reputation on
maintaining Britain’s top credit score after mapping out the
biggest austerity program in more than half a century in 2010 to
win the confidence of investors.  Credit-rating downgrades, far from being a signal that bond
prices will fall, often offer investors buying opportunities.
French 10-year yields have fallen this year despite the country
losing its top rating with  Standard & Poor’s  in January and with
Moody’s Investors Service last month.  The U.S., meanwhile, has been deemed more creditworthy by
investors since S&P stripped the nation of its AAA grade in
2011, with 10-year note yields dropping to a record low this
year.  About half the time, government bond yields move in the
opposite direction suggested by new ratings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg in June on 314 upgrades, downgrades and
outlook changes going back to 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  