-- U.K. Stocks Close Little Changed; Whitbread Rallies
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-12-11T17:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/u-k-stocks-rise-on-speculation-fed-will-expand-stimulus.html
U.K. stocks  closed little changed at
an eight-month high amid speculation that the  Federal Reserve 
will expand its asset purchases to provide economic stimulus and
a report that showed German investor confidence increased in
December.  Whitbread Plc (WTB)  rallied to a two-decade high after saying
sales growth at its Costa Coffee shops increased.  Asos Plc (ASC) 
climbed to a record high after reporting first-quarter sales
that beat analyst estimates.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  fell 1.6 percent after
the world’s largest distiller ended talks to buy the  Jose Cuervo 
tequila brand.  The FTSE 100 added 3.34 points, less than 0.1 percent, to
5,924.97 in London, the highest since March 19. The gauge has
 rallied 13 percent  from this year’s low on June 1 as the
 European Central Bank  and the U.S. Federal Reserve expanded bond
purchases. The broader FTSE All-Share Index was little changed,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index each increased 0.6 percent.  The FTSE 100 earlier rose as much as 0.3 percent.  “Better-than-expected economic sentiment data from Germany
spurred investors into buying mode,” said  Angus Campbell , head
of market analysis at Capital Spreads in London. “There is also
the prospect of an announcement of further stimulus from the
U.S. Federal Reserve.”  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research said its
 index  of investor and analyst expectations climbed to 6.9 this
month from minus 15.7 in November. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey had projected a reading of minus 11.5.  Federal Reserve  In the U.S., the  Federal Open Market Committee  begins a
two-day meeting today and will announce its interest-rate
decision tomorrow. That will be followed by forecasts on
economic growth, unemployment and inflation.  The Fed will expand economic stimulus by announcing $45
billion in monthly Treasury buying in addition to its program to
buy $40 billion in mortgage bonds each month, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  sounded conciliatory notes over
budget talks yesterday, in his first comments after meeting
House Speaker  John Boehner  during the weekend. He didn’t repeat
his complaint about Republican opposition to higher taxes for
top earners and stressed the importance of reaching a deal.  Congress must agree on a new budget to prevent more than
$600 billion of automatic tax increases and spending cuts from
coming into effect next year. The Congressional Budget Office
has said failure to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff may lead to
a recession and a jobless rate of about 9 percent.  Costa Coffee  Whitbread gained 2.5 percent to 2,488 pence, the highest
since  at least January 1992 , after the company said same-store
sales at its Costa Coffee outlets rose 7.1 percent in the 13
weeks ended Nov. 29, compared with 3.8 percent a year earlier.  Asos advanced 3.3 percent to 2,546 pence, the highest since
it sold shares to the public in October 2001. The U.K.’s largest
online fashion store said retail sales increased 30 percent in
the first quarter, compared with the average analyst estimate
calling for a 29 percent growth.  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  rallied 4.6 percent to 284.6 pence as co-founder
 Nathaniel Rothschild  said the top five institutional
shareholders support his proposal to restructure the company
after his dispute with Indonesia’s Bakrie Group.  Diageo dropped 1.6 percent to 1,855.5 pence after saying it
ended talks with JB y Cia. SA de C.V. and Lanceros S.A. de C.V.
over its plan to buy Jose Cuervo. The London-based distiller
will also end an agreement to distribute the tequila brand
outside Mexico when it expires at the end of June next year.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  tumbled 8.4 percent to 1,150 pence, the
lowest price since Sept. 6, 2011, after it said it will buy
Spring Energy for $372 million and sell its North Sea holdings.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. lost 3.7 percent to 266.1
pence after Citigroup Inc. said in a note it expects the company
to have a net debt of $5.5 billion in the first half of 2013.
That will be a breach of its banking covenant of having a net
debt of not more than three times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, Citigroup analyst Thomas
O’Hara wrote, asking investors to sell the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  