-- U.K. Fraud Agency Makes First Arrests Over Libor-Rigging
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-12-11T22:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/u-k-fraud-prosecutor-arrests-three-men-in-libor-rigging-probe.html
A former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  trader is
among three people held in the first U.K. arrests as part of
global probes into tampering with the London interbank offered
rate, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Thomas Hayes, a former trader at UBS AG and Citigroup, was
arrested by the Serious Fraud Office and City of London Police
today, said the people, who asked not to be identified citing
the continuing investigation. The other two men arrested worked
at brokerage firm  RP Martin Holdings Ltd. , according to one of
the people and a third person familiar with the investigation,
who also requested anonymity. The employees are Terry Farr and
Jim Gilmour, people with knowledge of the investigation said.  The three men who were arrested, ranging in age from 33 to
47, are all British nationals living in the U.K. and were taken
to a London police station for questioning, the SFO said in an
e-mailed statement. They were later released on bail.  Global authorities are investigating claims that more than
a dozen banks altered submissions used to set benchmarks such as
Libor to profit from bets on interest-rate derivatives or make
the lenders’ finances appear healthier. Swiss lender UBS is
expected to face a fine as early as this week that may surpass
the record 290 million pounds ($466.6 million) paid in June by
 Barclays (BARC)  Plc, the U.K.’s second-biggest bank, to settle claims
it attempted to manipulate Libor.  The agency and police also searched three homes in Surrey
and Essex, according to the SFO statement. Arrests in the U.K.
are made early in investigations, allowing people, who may not
be charged, to be questioned under caution.  Student Loans  Libor,  a benchmark  for more than $300 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is derived from a survey of banks conducted
each day on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in
London. The rates help determine borrowing costs for everything
from mortgages to student loans.  Hayes, a Tokyo-based trader for Citigroup, was previously
dismissed for suspected involvement in the rate manipulation, a
person familiar with the situation said earlier this year.  Jeff French, a spokesman for Citigroup in London, declined
to comment or provide contact information for Hayes. A number
for Hayes couldn’t immediately be located.  Japan ’s Financial Services Agency said last year that
Citigroup’s local securities unit would be banned from trading
tied to the London and Tokyo interbank offered rates for two
weeks starting on Jan. 10. Citigroup was forced to write off $50
million as it exited trades made by Tokyo-based employees, a
person familiar with the matter said earlier this year.  Unjust, Malicious  The Japanese regulator said a director and a trader at
Citigroup engaged in “seriously unjust and malicious” conduct
by asking bankers to alter data they submitted while setting a
benchmark Japanese lending rate. The regulator took no action
against the employees. Japan’s FSA also ordered a Japanese
division of  UBS (UBSN)  to suspend trading in derivatives related to Yen
Libor and Euroyen Tibor from Jan. 10 to Jan. 16.  Hayes  joined Citigroup in December 2009 and was dismissed
after he was reported for inappropriate conduct by a rate setter
there in June. He had previously worked for UBS, and for Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc between 2001 and 2003, according to a
U.K. FSA database.  David Jones, an SFO spokesman, declined to comment beyond
the statement. The City of London Police referred all calls to
the SFO. An RP Martin spokesman said the company doesn’t comment
on employee matters.  Most Egregious  David Green, the director of the SFO, said in an interview
last month the agency was considering conspiracy-to-defraud
charges against individuals. Green said the agency is focusing
on the most egregious attempts to manipulate Libor and other
related rates. Investigations into firms, managers, traders and
rate setters involved in minor offenses will come later.  The SFO opened the  Libor probe  in July at the request of
British politicians after the Barclays fine. Regulators in the
U.S. and U.K. are looking into how derivatives traders and
bankers who submitted interest-rate data colluded to rig
benchmarks to benefit their own trades, and whether lenders low-
balled submissions in 2008 to hide their true cost of borrowing.  Criminal probes by the SFO and U.S. Department of Justice
are running in parallel with civil investigations being
conducted by the Justice Department’s fraud division, the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the U.K. Financial
Services Authority.  No Allegations  Tavistock Communications, which handles media inquiries for
RP Martin, previously issued a statement saying the firm had
“received requests from certain regulators to provide
information on a voluntary basis to assist them with their
preliminary inquiries but no formal allegations have been made
against RP Martin by any regulator.”  The SFO has “Hoover-ed up all the stuff from the FSA and
loaded it onto our computers,” Green said last month. It also
received evidence from the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation
and some banks. Green took over as director in April and now has
40 people working on the probe. The SFO’s previous director,
Richard Alderman, declined to get involved in the case.  The agency is unlikely to conduct raids on banks, Green
said. Its main focus is on targeting individuals and secondarily
considering whether they can bring charges against firms. In
order to do so, the SFO would have to prove that a “controlling
mind” at a bank knew of the illicit behavior, Green said.  Jane de Lozey and Matthew Wagstaff are overseeing the Libor
investigation, with staff from external consultancy, accounting
and law firms, and with two people from the Crown Prosecution
Service, Green said. The Treasury has earmarked 3.5 million
pounds for the SFO’s Libor investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  