-- U.S. Bioethanol Producers Win End of EU Tariff Threat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-12-11T15:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/u-s-bioethanol-producers-win-end-of-eu-tariff-threat.html
The European Union will drop a
threat to impose anti-subsidy tariffs on U.S. bioethanol,
avoiding trade barriers for American producers such as  Archer-
Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)   The European Commission gained support from EU governments
to close an inquiry into whether U.S. bioethanol makers that
also include  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and Poet LLC receive trade-
distorting government aid. The commission, the EU’s trade
authority, opened a subsidy probe in November 2011 that could
have led to five-year import levies on U.S. manufacturers.  At a meeting today in Brussels, ministers from the 27-
nation EU didn’t object to a commission report “announcing the
termination of the anti-subsidy proceeding.” The decision to
end the investigation without imposing tariffs will take effect
after being published in the EU  Official Journal  by Dec. 25.  Ethanol is a form of alcohol distilled from grain or sugar
that boosts the oxygen content of fuel so it burns more
thoroughly, reducing tailpipe emissions. The probe into alleged
subsidies to U.S. bioethanol manufacturers stemmed from a
complaint in October 2011 by the European bioethanol industry
represented by the European Producers Union of Renewable Ethanol
Association, or ePure.  At the time, the European association also filed a
complaint alleging that U.S. bioethanol producers sold in the EU
below cost, a practice known as  dumping . That led the commission
to open a parallel dumping probe, which involves a separate
threat of duties. That inquiry continues and is due to end by
Feb. 25.  The EU imposes anti-dumping duties and anti-subsidy duties
on imports from the U.S. of biodiesel, a type of biofuel made
from vegetable oils and animal fats for use in diesel engines.
Those five-year levies were applied in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  