-- U.S. Sees Better Ties With Venezuela Regardless of Chavez Fate
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-12-11T20:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/u-s-sees-better-ties-with-venezuela-regardless-of-chavez-fate.html
Relations between the U.S. and
 Venezuela  will improve over the next year irrespective of who
leads the South American country as President Hugo Chavez
battles cancer, U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Roberta Jacobson said.  “A year from now we will have a better relationship with
Venezuela regardless of who is in power,” said Jacobson, who
oversees Western Hemisphere issues at the State Department, in
an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York  today.
“The economic model that has been implemented by President
Chavez is running its course.”  The comments were made as Chavez, 58, undergoes an
operation today in Cuba to treat a recurring cancer, his fourth
surgery since June 2011. Chavez named Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  his successor on Dec. 9, two months after winning re-
election in a campaign in which he told voters he was “cancer
free.”  Relations between the U.S. and Venezuela have been strained
since Chavez, who has built alliances with anti-U.S. governments
in Cuba, Iran and  Nicaragua , took power in 1999. The former
paratrooper blamed the U.S. for backing a failed 2002 coup
against his government and in a 2006 speech at the United
Nations called President  George W. Bush  “the devil.”  Frosty political ties haven’t stopped the U.S. from buying
about 1 million barrels of oil per day from Venezuela in
September, making it the country’s biggest client for crude.
With limited refining capacity, Venezuela imported 196,000
barrels a day of petroleum products, including gasoline, from
the U.S. the same month.  Cuban Detention  In Cuba, the detention of U.S. citizen Alan Gross “makes
everything else much harder,” Jacobson said. Gross, 63, was
working as a subcontractor for the U.S. Agency for International
Development in Cuba when he was arrested Dec. 3, 2009, and
charged with “actions against the independence or the
territorial integrity of the state.”  Gross said he was in Cuba as part of a contract his company
had with USAID to establish wireless networks and Internet
connections for Cuban Jewish communities. He has maintained his
innocence while serving a 15-year sentence.  “It’s an unjustified sentence,” said Jacobson, who has
served as the coordinator for Cuban Affairs at the State
Department. “It’s really important that he be home, home before
his 90-year-old mother with cancer dies. Nobody should be in
prison for 15 years for bringing information into another
country.”  The U.S. will continue to work with Cuba on issues of
“mutual importance,” Jacobson added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  