-- U.S. Sees No New Signs Syria Is Mixing Chemicals: Panetta
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-12-11T14:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/u-s-sees-no-new-signs-syria-is-mixing-chemicals-panetta.html
The U.S. has received no recent
intelligence indicating that  Syria  is taking “aggressive
steps” to prepare chemical weapons for use against rebel
forces, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said.  Intelligence reporting on such preparations “has leveled
off,” Panetta told reporters traveling with him to  Kuwait 
today. The U.S. has made it clear to Syrian President Bashar al- Assad that using chemical weapons would invite military action
and “I like to believe he got the message,” he said.  Western leaders have warned Assad that the use of chemical
weapons would have consequences, without detailing what action
they might take. Syria’s Foreign Ministry wrote to United
Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon pledging not to use such
weapons under any circumstances, Syrian state-run television
reported on Dec. 8.  French Defense Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian told RMC Radio
today that Western powers know the locations of Syria’s
chemical-weapons stockpiles. U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said on Dec. 8 that Britain and the U.S. have seen
evidence from “intelligence sources” indicating that Syria is
preparing to use the weapons.  Syrian Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said Syria
doesn’t possess “weapons that are banned internationally,
whether chemical, nuclear or biological.”  ‘Moral Reasons’  “Even if it had them, it won’t and cannot use them for
moral reasons,” Zoubi said in an interview yesterday with
Lebanon’s Al Manar TV. A report of the interview was carried
today on the website of state-run Syrian TV.  Panetta said the U.S. remains worried that arms flowing
from  Libya  to Syria may end up being distributed to “groups or
terrorists who then represent an even more dangerous threat.”  More than 500,000 Syrians have registered as refugees in
neighboring countries, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees
said today.  “Syrian refugees arriving during recent bad weather
reached Jordan with soaked clothing and mud-covered shoes due to
heavy rainfall,” Melissa Fleming, UNHCR chief spokeswoman, said
in an e-mailed statement today. “UNHCR protection teams
described the night-time arrivals as fearful, freezing and
without proper winter clothing.”  Assad has been fighting an insurgency that began with
peaceful protests in March 2011 before turning violent a few
months later. More than 41,000 people have been killed in the
conflict, according to the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights .  At least 46 people were killed across Syria today,
including 15 in Damascus and its suburbs, where clashes were
reported between rebel forces closing in on the city and Assad’s
troops, the opposition Local Coordination Committees said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Kuwait, via 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  