-- U.S. Should Consider Automatic Voter Registration: Holder
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-12-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/u-s-should-consider-automatic-voter-registration-holder.html
The U.S. should consider
automatically registering eligible voters and extending voting
hours to counter the November election’s long lines and
administrative hurdles, Attorney General Eric Holder said.  Holder, speaking today at the John F. Kennedy Presidential
Library in Boston, proposed expanding access for voters and
overhauling a registration system he called “antiquated.”  “It is important for national leaders, academic experts,
and members of the public to engage in a frank, thorough and
inclusive discussion about how our election systems can be made
stronger and more accessible,” Holder said in prepared remarks.  President  Barack Obama  called for changes on election night
after voters in states including  Florida  and Virginia waited for
hours to cast ballots. Obama, while thanking voters who stood in
line “for a very long time,” added, “By the way, we have to
fix that.”  Lawmakers and interest groups have responded with proposals
and hearings, though legislative changes haven’t made headway in
the Congress.  The 2012 campaign was defined, in part, by voter access
lawsuits in states including  Ohio ,  Pennsylvania ,  Texas  and
Florida after Republican-dominated legislatures required photo
identification and limited hours at polling places.  Republican lawmakers said the measures were needed to
prevent fraud and allow elections to run more efficiently.
Holder’s  Justice Department  moved to block or delay some state
laws.  ‘Democratic Values’  “Attempts to restrict voting are inconsistent with our
history,” Holder said, citing federal court decisions that
uphold voters’ rights. “The desire to achieve an electoral
advantage must never trump our democratic values.”  Holder also addressed a provision in the 1965 Voting Rights
Act that the  Supreme Court  will consider overturning next year.
Under the law, all or part of 16 mostly Southern states are
required to get federal approval before changing their voting
rules. Opponents of the provision, put in place to stop
discriminatory practices, say it’s no longer warranted.  Holder said the so-called preclearance requirement was “an
indispensable tool for eradicating racial discrimination.”  “In too many places, troubling divisions and disparities
remain,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  