-- U.S. Factory Sales, Spending to Outpace Services, ISM Says
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-12-11T15:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/u-s-factories-more-optimistic-than-services-for-2013-ism-says.html
Manufacturers in the U.S. are more
optimistic about sales and spending next year than service
providers, signaling that factories will support the economic
expansion after they slumped in recent months, according to a
survey by the  Institute for Supply Management .  Purchasing managers at U.S. factories anticipate sales will
grow 4.6 percent in 2013 and business investment will increase
7.6 percent, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s forecast showed
today. By contrast, service providers estimate revenue will grow
4.3 percent next year and that  capital spending  will rise 7
percent, the ISM said.  “Manufacturing, purchasing and supply executives expect to
see continued growth in 2013,” Bradley Holcomb, chairman of the
group’s factory committee, said in a statement. “They are
optimistic about their overall business prospects for the first
half of 2013 and are even more optimistic about the second
half.”.  Service providers saw greater promise for a rise in staff,
predicting a 1.3 percent increase by the end of 2013, while
manufacturers projected employment will grow 0.8 percent next
year.  Factory leaders expect input prices to rise 2.8 percent by
the end of 2013 and service providers see a 2.7 increase in
input costs, the ISM survey said.  ISM Manufacturing  Earlier this month, the ISM reported that manufacturing
unexpectedly  shrank  in November, as managers grew more concerned
about the potential economic toll stemming from the so-called
fiscal cliff and slower growth abroad. The ISM’s factory index
dropped to 49.5 last month from 51.7 in October, figures
indicated Dec. 3.  Two days after the factory gauge was released, the ISM
services gauges showed those industries unexpectedly  grew  at a
faster pace in November. The ISM reported that its index of non-
manufacturing companies increased to 54.7 last month from 54.2
in October.  For both indexes, readings greater than 50 signal growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  