-- UBS to Charge Bank Clients for Franc Deposits
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-12-11T11:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/ubs-to-charge-bank-clients-for-deposits-in-francs-from-next-week.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
said it will start charging financial institutional clients for
cash balances held in Swiss francs, adding to measures imposed
last year to control inflows into clearing accounts.  The charge, which will be communicated individually to
clients within days, will be levied from Dec. 21, the Zurich-
based lender said in a notice to bank clients via the Swift
system yesterday and made available by UBS. The company cited
“continued prevailing market situation affecting the Swiss
franc” for the move. The franc weakened against the euro.  UBS has been levying a “temporary excess balance fee”
since August 2011 in cash clearing accounts where net inflows
were above a certain undisclosed threshold. Credit Suisse Group
AG, the second-biggest Swiss bank, said last week it would start
imposing negative rates on cash clearing accounts in francs and
other currencies above a certain threshold as of yesterday.  UBS and Credit Suisse are cutting risk-taking and reducing
their balance sheets to meet stricter capital requirements from
regulators. The franc deposits held for other banks use up
capital and introducing negative rates allows a lender “to make
money,” Geoffrey Kendrick, head of European currency strategy
at Nomura International Plc in  London , said in a note last week.  The franc declined against the euro after the notice from
UBS, weakening to as low as 1.21265 per euro. Switzerland’s
central bank imposed a cap of 1.20 francs per euro in September
2011 to protect the economy after investors seeking a haven from
 Europe ’s debt crisis pushed the exchange rate toward parity.  Franc Balances  “We encourage our customers to keep their Swiss franc
balances as low as possible,” UBS said in its notice.  The Swiss National Bank declined to comment.  The franc depreciated to the weakest level in almost three
months against the euro last week as Credit Suisse was said to
set a negative rate of as much as minus 1 percent on balances
held in the Swiss currency. Depositors have turned to
Switzerland and Denmark as they hunt for currencies with less
risk than the euro, the fate of which depends in part on whether
nations such as  Greece  can pay their debts.  State Street Corp. and Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., two
of the world’s biggest custody banks, have already disclosed
plans to offer negative interest rates on francs and Danish
kroner. Royal Bank of Canada is also imposing negative rates on
some customers for those currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Zurich at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  