-- Lula Accused by Felon of Joining Brazil Bribery Scandal
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-12-11T18:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/lula-accused-by-felon-of-joining-brazil-bribery-scandal.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
defended her predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , amid fresh
allegations that he joined in a cash-for-votes scandal.  “I repudiate all attempts -- and this would not be the
first -- to take away the immense respect the Brazilian people
have for him,” Rousseff told reporters in Paris after attending
an event in the French capital alongside the former president.
“It’s regrettable, these attempts to damage president Lula’s
image.”  Brazil’s opposition is urging prosecutors to investigate
Lula after he was accused of joining in a corruption scheme by a
businessman convicted in the case.  Advertising executive Marcos Valerio told prosecutors in
September that he transferred funds to aides of Lula on two
occasions to pay for the former president’s personal expenses, O
Estado de S. Paulo reported today, citing sealed testimony it
obtained. One of the payments was for 100,000 reais ($48,139),
the newspaper said.  Rousseff was applauded by members of her cabinet while
defending Lula, who she called her “friend,” in the presence
of French President  Francois Hollande . She declined to comment
further, saying such questions are better addressed in Brazil
and not on a foreign trip. Lula also declined to comment.  Money Laundering  Valerio sought out prosecutors after being convicted in
September by the  Supreme Court  of fraud, corruption and  money
laundering  in a scheme the ruling Workers’ Party used to
embezzle public funds to bribe lawmakers from 2003 to 2005. This
is the first time Lula has been accused of wrongdoing by any of
the dozens of lawmakers, bankers and former Lula aides convicted
in the trial known as the “mensalao,” or big monthly payment.
Valerio was subsequently sentenced to 40 years in jail.  The Social Democracy Party,  Brazil ’s biggest opposition
party, asked federal prosecutors to open an investigation into
Lula’s involvement in the scandal and want Valerio to testify in
Congress, Bruno Araujo, leader of the PSDB in the lower house,
said in a phone interview.  Brazil’s Supreme Court President Joaquim Barbosa, who was
named to the court by Lula, said today that the accusations
should be investigated by prosecutors, according to O Globo
newspaper’s  website .  The public prosecutor's office had no immediate comment 
and said it would issue a statement later today, according to a 
press official who declined to be identified because of internal 
policy.  Fraudulent Loans  Valerio told prosecutors that Lula approved fraudulent
loans from Banco BMG SA and Banco Rural SA that the high court
said were used to buy votes in Congress, according to O Estado.
Lula also negotiated with Miguel Horta, former chief executive
officer of  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC) , a 7 million reais payment
to the PT, O Estado cited Valerio as telling prosecutors.  Paulo Okamotto, head of the Lula Institute, said that it’s
up to prosecutors to judge whether the testimony of a convicted
felon has any basis. He also denied Valerio’s testimony to
prosecutors, as reported by O Estado, that he warned the
advertising executive that he could be killed by PT activists if
he didn’t keep quiet about what he knows.  “He’s trying not to go to jail for 40 years,” Okamotto
told reporters at the same event in Paris. “If I were him I’d
be trying to find a way out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  