-- Hungary Approves Budget Against IMF Advice as Stagnation Looms
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-12-11T13:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/hungary-approves-budget-against-imf-advice-as-stagnation-looms.html
Hungarian lawmakers passed the 2013
budget, keeping extraordinary company taxes opposed by the
 International Monetary Fund  and which businesses blame for a
lack of investment and economic growth.  The budget, setting a 2.7 percent of economic output
deficit target and projecting an increase in gross domestic
product of 0.9 percent, was approved 248-9 by deputies,
according to Duna TV coverage of the vote today in Budapest.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s reliance on extraordinary tax
contributions from banking, energy, retail and telecommunication
companies to close budget holes has led to a recession. Lending
and investments have declined, Hungary’s credit rating was
downgraded to junk and the government is deadlocked in aid talks
with the IMF, which has urged the an overhaul of policies to
spur the economy.  “Hungary is battling a serious growth problem,” the Joint
Venture Association, a business lobby group that counts the
biggest domestic and foreign investors among its members, said
in a statement today. “The primary reason for the weak economic
performance that typically trails that of countries in the
region is the lack of an environment that ensures the security
and profitability of investments and leads to a sustainable
growth path.”  Bank Tax  Orban failed to deliver on a promise to cut a special bank
tax in half from 2013 as part of a salvo of tax measures aimed
at keeping the  budget deficit  within the EU limit of 3 percent
of GDP and prevent the bloc from slashing infrastructure
funding. New taxes on companies include a financial transaction
levy and a tax on utility infrastructure.  The budget cuts debt, funds job-creation programs and lays
the basis for sustainable growth, Orban said in an e-mailed
statement. The government needs to avoid spending 2013 fiscal
reserves to meet next year’s budget-deficit target, Fiscal
Council Chairman Arpad Kovacs told lawmakers today.  Hungary’s investment rate is the lowest in central and
eastern  Europe  and the government needs to turn this around,
Mihaly Varga, the chief aid negotiator with the IMF and EU, told
a conference today. The Cabinet predicts a 1 percent contraction
in investments in 2013, he said.  Recession Continues  Hungary ’s recession probably continued in the fourth
quarter after industrial output plummeted 3.8 percent in October
from a year earlier, the most in almost three years. Austerity
measures at home and abroad have hurt domestic demand and slowed
exports, while the withdrawal of funding by western banks and a
spike in non-performing loans have cut credit.  The central bank will probably lower its 0.7 percent GDP
growth forecast for 2013 in the next inflation report, Magyar
Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor said on Nov. 29. The
forecasts will be published on Dec. 18. Hungary’s economy may
stagnate in 2013 after a “longer” recession, Morgan Stanley
said Dec. 10.  Fiscal or monetary stimulus won’t restart Hungary’s growth,
Simor, whose mandate expires in March, said Dec. 7. The
government needs to create a predictable policy environment and
stop a decline in lending to help the economy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  