-- Hungary’s Together 2014 to Struggle to Oust Orban, Eurasia Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-12-11T18:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/hungary-s-together-2014-to-struggle-to-oust-orban-eurasia-says.html
Hungary’s Together 2014 movement,
formed to overthrow the ruling Fidesz party at elections in less
than a year and a half, will find it hard to build support,
Eurasia Group said.  The movement, which includes former Prime Minister  Gordon Bajnai ’s Patriotism and Progress and three other civic
movements, will probably aim to restore constitutional checks
and balances, rebuild European ties and conduct a more rational
economic policy, Mujtaba Rahman, a New York-based analyst at
Eurasia, said in an e-mailed note.  “The return of Gordon Bajnai to the political fray
represents one of the most important political developments
since Fidesz came to power, and is the first sign post that the
incumbent government will face a credible challenger in 2014,”
Rahman wrote today. “While the vision is appealing, its
realization is going to prove an uphill struggle.”  Premier Viktor Orban, in office since 2010, has used his
two-thirds legislative majority to pass a new constitution,
narrow the powers of the Constitutional Court and set up a new
media regulator led by appointees from the ruling Fidesz party,
drawing criticism from the European Union.  Together 2014 said last week that it had agreed with the
Socialists, the largest opposition party, to start talks next
month on an alliance. Bajnai was prime minister in 2009-2010
with Socialist backing.  While the Socialists’ involvement is “necessary,” it will
prove a challenge because of unfavorable public opinion toward
their time in government, Rahman said. In addition, Socialist
leader Attila Mesterhazy would see himself as candidate for
premier in case of an alliance, he wrote.  Fidesz had 19 percent backing in November among eligible
voters, compared with 14 percent for the Socialists and 7
percent for Together 2014, according to pollster Tarki’s
 website . Tarki, which surveyed 1,000 voting-age adults Nov.
14-20, didn’t give a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  