-- Muni Pension-Bond Sales May Increase Default Risk, Moody’s Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-12-11T18:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/muni-pension-bond-sales-may-increase-default-risk-moody-s-says.html
State and local governments issuing
bonds to bolster their pension funds may increase the chance of
defaulting on their debt while probably failing to improve their
credit quality, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The securities will have either a neutral or negative
effect on a government’s creditworthiness, depending on the size
of the sale and the use of proceeds, Moody’s said in a report
today. Turning unfunded pension promises into bonds keeps
liabilities unchanged, though it raises the risk of a default as
the amount of debt increases.  “Pension bonds are often a red flag associated with
greater rigidity of long-term obligations, failure to find
sustainable solutions to pension funding and a pattern of
pushing costs off into the future.” Moody’s analysts Marcia Van Wagner and Timothy Blake wrote in the report. In some cases,
“the issuance of the bonds is sufficiently credit negative to
put downward pressure on the issuer’s rating.”  Illinois has borrowed $17.2 billion since 2003 for pension
benefits, according to Moody’s. The state’s worst-funded
retirement system has only 43.4 percent of assets needed to
cover its obligations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Moody’s downgraded Illinois in January, citing its “severe
pension under-funding.”  Illinois Governor Pat Quinn said yesterday that the battle
to control employee pension costs “is our fiscal cliff and we
need to deal with it” or ratings companies would lower the
state’s grade again.  Municipal defaults this year are still at the lowest since
at least 2009, with 80 issuers failing to pay this year,
according to data from Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal
Market Advisors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  