-- Turkey Current Account Gap Narrows for 12th Month on Imports
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-12-11T10:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/turkey-current-account-gap-narrows-for-12th-month-on-imports.html
Turkey ’s current-account deficit
narrowed for the 12th straight month in October as slowing
economic growth curbed demand for imported goods and gold sales
to Iran and the U.A.E. boosted exports.  The gap shrank to $2 billion from $4.5 billion a year
earlier, the central bank in Ankara said on its website today.
It was forecast at $2 billion according to the median estimate
of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Turkey’s current-account deficit has dropped to about a
fifth of the March 2011 high of $9.5 billion. As shipments of
precious metals abroad slow and the central bank seeks to spur
growth, the narrowing of the gap may soon bottom out, or
reverse, analysts said.  “I think the narrowing trend in the current account
deficit has come, or is coming to an end,”  Inan Demir , chief
economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in a telephone
interview. “I would be much more confident of this in the
absence of the gold exports.”  Turkey’s gold trade with neighboring Iran has helped shrink
its trade deficit over the past year, with precious metals
accounting for about half of the almost $21 billion decline.
That’s calmed investor concern over the  current-account  gap, and
helped persuade  Fitch Ratings  to give Turkey its first
investment-grade rating since 1994. Two-year note yields slid
524 basis points this year, the most worldwide.  Gold Exports  Turkey exported $11.9 billion of gold in the first 10
months of the year, with 85 percent of it going to  Iran  and the
 United Arab Emirates .  The  current-account deficit  may fall to $57.3 billion by
year-end, according to the central bank’s latest bi-weekly
survey of economists. That compares with $77.1 billion last
year, when Turkey had the second-biggest deficit in the world,
behind the U.S.  Turkey’s economy grew at a pace of 1.6 percent in the third
quarter, according to figures released yesterday. It was the
slowest rate since the third quarter of 2009.  The deficit “should be bottoming out if we think economic
activity will pick up,” Sengul Dagdeviren, chief economist of
ING Bank AS in Istanbul, said in a phone interview. “If we see
a narrowing in the current account, it won’t be a good sign as
it will mean weaker growth is continuing.”  Lower Inflation  Turkey’s  inflation  rate declined to 6.4 percent in
November, the lowest in 14 months, freeing central bank Governor
Erdem Basci to reduce his benchmark 5.75 percent interest rate
and stimulate  growth  in the economy of almost $800 billion.
Inflation was 10.5 percent at the end of last year.  Basci last cut his benchmark  policy rate  to 5.75 percent in
August 2011, extending a boom in lending that helped swell the
 current-account deficit  to about 10 percent of gross domestic
product by year-end.  The lira strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.7866 per dollar at
11:46 a.m. in Istanbul today. Yields on benchmark two year bonds
declined 1 basis point, or 0.1 percentage point, to 5.76
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  