-- Vingroup Markets High-Yield Dollar Debt as Sales Steady
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-12-11T05:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/vingroup-markets-high-yield-dollar-debt-as-sales-steady.html
Vingroup JSC (VIC)  is marketing the second
offering of dollar-denominated bonds from  Vietnam  in 2012, as
high-yield note sales from Asia outside of  Japan  inch past last
year’s total. Bond risk in Japan and  Australia  rose.  Vietnam’s biggest property developer is seeking to price
five-year debt, which the company can buy back after the third
year, to yield 12 percent to 12.5 percent, said a person
familiar with the deal. Citic Pacific Ltd.’s $250 million
offering last week pushed non-investment grade bond sales from
the region to $14.2 billion for the year, compared with $14.1
billion in the prior period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The steady pace of sales in Asia’s dollar junk bond market
contrasts with high-yield issuance in the U.S. and with
investment-grade offerings from the region, which have both
surged to records this year. Junk-rated real estate developers
in  China , which accounted for 28 percent of the market in 2011,
reduced sales in the first half versus the same period prior as
investor confidence faltered amid curbs to lower  house prices  in
the world’s second-biggest economy, the data show.  Chinese property developers “had a difficult start in
2012,” Luc Froehlich, a portfolio manager with Manulife Asset
Management’s Asia fixed-income team, which oversees more than
$39 billion, said in a phone interview from Hong Kong.
“Stronger domestic regulations and higher land prices tempered
new issuance.”   Investment-grade borrowers boosted debt sales as
it became harder to get funding through syndicated loans,
decreasing high-yield companies’ share of Asian offerings,
Froehlich said.  Vingroup Bonds  Junk-rated borrowers have raised $337.3 billion in the
U.S., the most in data compiled by Bloomberg since 1999. Asian
investment-grade offerings total $87.7 billion, close to double
the previous record of $44 billion set in 2010, the data show.  Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank For Industry and Trade (CTG) ,
the country’s second-largest lender by market value, raised $250
million from its debut bond in May.  Investment-grade debt is rated at least Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service or BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s . Bonds with lower
ratings are typically known as junk, speculative-grade, or high-
yield.  Vingroup has a B+ rating from Fitch Ratings, four steps
below investment grade, and is  rated  one level lower at B by
S&P. Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. are helping
manage its bond sale, the person familiar said, asking not to be
named because the details are private.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index increased 1.5 basis points to
170.5 basis points as of 9:16 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup prices
show. The index, which has ranged from 165 basis points to 229.5
basis points since June 30, advanced 4.8 basis points last week,
according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index climbed 0.5 of a basis
point to 127.5 as of 11:16 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac
Banking Corp. The measure has ranged from 126.6 to 186 this
half, according to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 114 basis points
as of 8:15 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The gauge rose 2.4 basis points last week,
according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  