-- Visa Fee Accord Preliminary Approval Appeal Is Rejected
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-12-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/visa-fee-accord-preliminary-approval-appeal-is-rejected.html
  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and other retailers
lost their bid to appeal a judge’s preliminary approval of  Visa
Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s proposed $7.25 billion settlement of
a merchant fee price-fixing case.  A federal appeals court in  Manhattan  refused to give
expedited treatment to the retailers’s appeal and deferred the
matter until after the judge has given final approval and
entered a final judgment in the case, according to a filing
yesterday.  Lawyers for the retailers had sought a hearing and decision
on the appeal as soon as possible because they said the trial
judge in the case granted an injunction that makes them part of
the settlement group without rights to opt out of the accord or
bring future lawsuits, according to a Nov. 29 court filing.  Stephen Neuwirth, an attorney for Home Depot, and Wesley
Powell, a lawyer for the credit card companies, didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails sent after regular business hours
seeking comment on the ruling.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson gave preliminary approval
of the $7.25 billion settlement on Nov. 9 over objections by
retailers opposing the deal. The decision allowed plaintiffs to
begin signing up more than 7 million retailers that might be
eligible to participate. A final approval hearing is scheduled
for Sept. 12.  The accord, estimated to be the largest-ever antitrust
settlement, would end a seven-yearlong case alleging that the
card companies conspired with major banks to fix interchange, or
swipe, fees charged to merchants when customers pay with
plastic. Retailers opposed to the deal claim it forces them to
give up too many rights to sue over card company practices in
the future.  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  