-- Vladimir Putin, Hero of Soviet Labor
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2012-12-11T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/vladimir-putin-hero-of-soviet-labor.html
(Corrects dates of Brezhnev’s rule in eleventh paragraph.)  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  has
found an ironic way to mark the first anniversary of mass
protests aimed at pushing the country toward democracy: On Dec.
10, he called for the revival of the  Soviet Union ’s highest
peacetime honor, the Hero of Labor medal.  The hard part will be figuring out what, exactly, the award
should stand for in modern-day Russia.  One year ago this week, no fewer than 40,000 Muscovites
took to the streets to protest a rigged parliamentary election -
- the first in a series of demonstrations that, for a while,
succeeded in putting the Kremlin on the defensive.  During a televised question-and-answer session Putin held
after the first rally, the shop manager of a tank factory in the
Urals, Igor Kholmanskikh, offered help in dispersing the pesky
Muscovites. “If our police don’t know their job and can’t cope,
the boys and I are willing to go out ourselves and stand up for
our stability,” he said.  Putin never forgot Kholmanskikh. In May, he appointed him
presidential representative to the Urals Federal District, a
largely ceremonial but exalted position. In August, Kholmanskikh
 called  for the revival of the Hero of Labor medal, which was
abolished when the Soviet Union fell apart in 1991. In Soviet
times, 20,605 people received the medal, a gold star with the
hammer and sickle in relief at the center, for their outstanding
efforts on behalf of the nation.  Josef Stalin  was the first
recipient in 1939.  On Tuesday, Putin endorsed Kholmanskikh’s idea during a
meeting with a group of loyalist notables who helped him run his
election campaign earlier this year. “We need to pay more
attention to the worker wherever he toils: as an ordinary
workingman, an engineer, a scientist or an artist,” he said.  The official Twitter account of Lenta.ru, one of the
nation’s biggest independent news resources,  reacted 
sarcastically to Putin’s gesture: “Comrades! The Secretary
General, beloved President Vladimir Putin has decided to
reinstitute the title Hero of Labor! Hurrah, comrades!”  Bloggers pointed out that the distinction, originally
called the Hero of Socialist Labor medal, doesn’t make much
sense in a country with a market economy. “Does it mean that he
who pays the most taxes will be named Hero of Labor?”  asked 
blogger prosto-vova on LiveJournal.  Yet Putin’s populist move struck a chord among many in
Russia, where Soviet nostalgia is still strong. Twitter user
Alexander Solovyov responded, in all caps, to Lenta.ru’s tweet:
“You idiots will never understand how hard a miner, a
blacksmith or a milkmaid works. You use their labor and you even
dare to laugh!”  Putin, who once  described himself  as “a successful product
of Soviet patriotic education,” has long displayed a penchant
for reviving attributes of the USSR. He brought back the Soviet
national anthem soon after he came to power 12 years ago. His
pet project, the Eurasian economic community, has reunited the
former Soviet republics of  Russia , Belarus and  Kazakhstan  in a
customs union, and he is working hard to pull in Ukraine. His
rhetoric on international issues, harassment of protest leaders,
control of the national media and near-total renationalization
of the energy sector all hark back to the Cold War era.  “All we need is the Communist Party of the Soviet Union,
the Young Pioneers, party control -- and then we’re pulling into
Brezhnev Station,” former economics minister Andrei Nechayev
 tweeted  on Dec. 10, referring to  Leonid Brezhnev , who ruled from
1964 until 1982 and was, in 1961, named Hero of Socialist Labor.  Aside from agreeing to bring back the Hero of Labor, Putin
spoke up in defense of keeping Lenin’s Mausoleum, one of the
most powerful and contentious symbols of the Soviet past, in Red
Square. Many anti-Communist politicians and priests have called
for a Christian burial for  Vladimir Lenin , whose remains lie
embalmed in the tomb.  Putin, an Orthodox Christian himself, begged to differ:
“Go to the Kiev-Pechersk Monastery or to Mount Athos,” he
said. “They’ve got relics of saints there for all to see. In
that sense, the Communists took over the tradition. It was neat
the way they did it, in keeping with what people needed in those
days.”  Putin is easy to imagine atop the mausoleum, waving to his
marching supporters in the style of Soviet general secretaries.
The protest movement that started a year ago is in the doldrums.
Fewer people attend rallies in Moscow, and opposition leaders
squabble over slogans and other meaningless trivia. The
president has won a tactical victory, and he is rubbing it in,
confident that the nation loves its Soviet past more than it
does an abstract European future.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow and Kiev
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Leonid Bershidsky at  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 