-- Warburg Said to Hire Goldman Sachs to Sell Bausch & Lomb
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-12-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/warburg-said-to-hire-goldman-sachs-to-sell-bausch-lomb.html
Warburg Pincus LLC hired  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to explore the sale of its Bausch & Lomb Inc.
eye-care company, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Warburg may seek at least $10 billion for the business,
said one of the people, who asked not to be named because the
process is confidential. The asset may only fetch as much as
$8 billion, said another person familiar with the deliberations.  Bausch & Lomb makes products from contact lenses and
solutions to equipment used in eye surgery. Warburg Pincus
bought the Rochester, New York-based company for $3.7 billion in
September 2007 after the eye-products maker was marred by
accounting errors, lawsuits and the recall of one of its contact
lens solutions.  Goldman this month contacted health-care companies such as
 Sanofi (SAN) ,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and Merck & Co., one person said.
Other companies, such as  Abbott (ABT)  Laboratories, also will be
contacted, according to that person.  Warburg Pincus had talked to financial advisers about
taking Bausch & Lomb public, the person said. The New York-based
private-equity firm chose Goldman Sachs to run a limited sales
process, and if a buyer can’t be found Warburg Pincus may pursue
an IPO, according to the person.  Before Bausch & Lomb was taken private, Advanced Medical
Optics Inc., now owned by Abbott Park, Illinois-based Abbott,
tried to buy the company in July 2007 with a $4.3 billion bid.  Hassan Role  Bausch & Lomb’s chairman Fred Hassan, who is also a
managing director at Warburg Pincus, has a history as a
dealmaker in the health-care industry. He engineered the $37
billion takeover in March 2000 of Monsanto Co. by Pharmacia &
Upjohn, he sold Pharmacia to New York-based Pfizer Inc. for $58
billion in 2003, and led Schering-Plough Corp. when it was sold
to Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck for $41 billion in
2009.  Created more than 40 years ago, Warburg Pincus has over $30
billion in assets under management, according to the firm’s
 website . Past investments include Dutch cable operator Ziggo BV
and food-services company Aramark, the site shows.  “Bausch & Lomb is regularly contacted by companies with
strategic interest in our company, and we continue to aspire to
a return to the public markets in the future,” said Adam
Grossberg, a spokesman for the eye-care company. “However, our
focus remains on building the best global eye-health company,
and therefore won’t comment further.”  Officials at Goldman Sachs, Warburg Pincus, Merck, Paris-
based Sanofi and London-based Glaxo declined to comment. An
Abbott representative didn’t return calls seeking comment about
the possible sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  