-- Wheat Falls to Five-Month Low as Global Supplies May Gain
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-12-11T21:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/wheat-falls-to-five-month-low-as-global-supplies-may-gain.html
Wheat tumbled to a five-month low
after a government report showed global inventories will shrink
less than forecast, easing concern that droughts from the U.S.
to  Australia  were creating a grain shortage.  Stockpiles will be 176.95 million metric tons on May 31,
more than the 174.18 million projected in November, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said today in a report. Analysts
expected a cut to 173.61 million, based on 16 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. The agency increased its forecasts on crops in
Canada, Australia and  China .  Prices have rallied 26 percent this year as drought cuts
production in the U.S., Australia and  Russia , last year’s
largest exporters. While inventories will still be down 9.6
percent from a year earlier, the USDA has increased its forecast
for a second straight month. Lower cereal prices helped reduce
global food costs tracked by the United Nations 2.2 percent
since September.  “Anytime you can alleviate fears about running out of
wheat, that’s going to be a little bit bearish and temper the
rallies to the upside,”  Jason Britt , the president of Central
States Commodities Inc. in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , said by
telephone.  Wheat futures for March delivery fell 3.2 percent to settle
at $8.215 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
biggest drop since Oct. 12. Earlier, the price touched $8.16,
the lowest for a most-active contract since July 11.  Production Outlook  Global production will total 655.1 million tons, up 0.6
percent from 651.4 million estimated in November, the USDA said.
The Australia forecast was raised to 22 million tons from 21
million. That’s in line with an Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences estimate on
Dec. 4.  Canada’s output will reach 27.2 million tons, the USDA
said. That’s up from last month’s forecast of 26.7 million and
on par with a Dec. 5 Statistics  Canada  report. China will reap
120.6 million tons, compared with 118 million projected in
November, according to the USDA.  Dry weather is still a concern in the U.S., where winter-
wheat crops are entering dormancy before resuming growth in
April, Britt said. If prices fall, farmers may seed less and
buyers may increase purchases, leaving tighter supplies next
year, said Mike Zuzolo, the president of Global Commodity
Analytics in Lafayette,  Indiana .  Inventories  “If world stocks are smaller than USDA is expecting, a
historically tight wheat stocks situation will get even
tighter,” Zuzolo said.  Unsold supplies in the U.S. at the end of the marketing
year on May 31 will total 20.5 million tons, up from 19.2
million forecast in November, as exports were forecast 4.5
percent lower at 28.6 million tons, the USDA said.  “They cut U.S. exports, and I think that’s deserving,”
 Tom Leffler , the owner of Leffler Commodities LLC in Augusta,
Kansas, said by telephone. “Wheat exports have not performed
the way everybody thought they were going to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  