-- Whitbread Says Costa Cafe Sales Rise in Challenging Economy
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-12-11T17:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/whitbread-sees-sales-rise-at-costa-coffee-in-challenging-economy.html
Whitbread Plc (WTB) , the owner of Premier
Inn budget hotels and Costa Coffee shops, said revenue growth
accelerated as the U.K. cafe market strengthened. The shares
rose to the highest since at least January 1992.  Sales at Costa shops open for at least a year rose 7.1
percent in the 13 weeks ended Nov. 29, Whitbread said today in a
statement. The Dunstable, England-based company last year
reported 3.8 percent like-for-like revenue growth at the coffee
chain in the comparable period.  Sales at Premier Inn rose 2.5 percent on a like-for-like
basis, compared with a 2.6 percent increase a year earlier.
Revenue per available room, an industry gauge of profitability,
fell 0.9 percent in  London  compared with a 1.9 percent drop
across the industry, Whitbread said.  “We would plan for Premier Inn to outperform the market in
terms of revpar by a percentage point or two,” Chief Executive
Officer Andy Harrison said on a call with analysts. “We’ve
outperformed the midscale and economy segment much more than
that and we are clearly benefitting from Travelodge’s financial
problems.”  Whitbread was up 60 pence, or 2.5 percent, to 2,488 pence
at the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in the London. The shares have
climbed 58 percent in the past 12 months, increasing the
company’s market value to 4.44 billion pounds ($7.2 billion).  More Rooms  Revpar at Premier Inn grew 0.7 percent compared with a
decline of 5.4 percent for the mid-scale and economy hotel
market, Whitbread said in the statement, citing data compiled by
STR Global. The number of rooms Premier Inn operates in London
increased by 22 percent this year.  Like-for-like sales companywide rose 3.3 percent in the
period, compared with 2.4 percent in the same period last year.  “The economic environment remains challenging with no
change in our background consumer market,” Harrison said in the
statement. “We are on track to deliver full-year results in
line with expectations.”  Travelodge Ltd., a competitor in the U.K. budget-hotel
market, completed a financial restructuring in October, cutting
its debt by half and giving lenders stakes in the business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 