-- Who Feels More Sorry for John Boehner?
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n   a n d   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-12-11T14:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/who-feels-more-sorry-for-john-boehner-.html
This is part of a continuing dialogue between Ramesh Ponnuru and Margaret
Carlson about  Washington  politics. Margaret:  Here's my problem arguing with you, Ramesh, over
the fiscal-cliff negotiations. I think I probably feel more sorry for Speaker
 John Boehner  than you do. On Sunday, when what he probably really wanted was a round of golf and a
glass of merlot on the 19 th  hole, he had to walk into  the White
House to meet with President  Barack Obama  knowing that eventually he's going to
get whupped. And his whupping isn't going to come from the president -- it will
be from  his fellow Republicans. "Saturday Night Live"  dramatized  the spot the speaker finds himself in,
staging a mock joint Obama-Boehner press conference announcing their agreement
to raise rates on the "top two" taxpayers. "I felt sorry for  this man, I
realize how badly the  Republican Party  treats him," Obama said. "Leave this
poor, orange man alone." What a shame Obama and Boehner can't be themselves. They have more in common
with each other than with the extremes of their parties. By their natures, they
are drawn to compromise, as indicated by their records before becoming speaker
and  president -- not to mention the Grand Bargain they hammered out last
year. Boehner may wish for the power he had during the days of the Grand Bargain,
which eventually collapsed, and  debt-ceiling standoff. He's not negotiating
with last year's Obama. Obama is no  longer the guy walking into the car
dealership and paying full price just because he wants to show how reasonable he
is. That Obama has been replaced by the guy who won big, has the public on his
side and has decided to rub it in. Too bad Bohener no longer has the option to negotiate inside the room and
talk  trash outside. Last week, before their agreed-upon silence took hold, he
came out  in his open-collar shirt to characterize the progress so far as  "a
joke" and  the conversations a colossal "waste of time." That must have felt good. If you can't beat them on the field, as they say,
beat them in  the bleachers -- or, as the case may be, on the circular driveway
in front of of the White House. Boehner  whispered last week  in answer to a
question: "There are a lot of things that are  possible to put the revenue that
the president seeks on the table." That was  interpreted to mean a tax hike.
Later he said he didn't mean that. Most likely  he did, and then his caucus
pushed back. That's the downside of talking after a negotiating session: Your people get a
 chance to body check you. But there is a definite upside: Boehner needs a place
 to talk big, because it isn't in the room with the president. The perpetually tan and rested Boehner is looking pale over his dilemma: He
knows he has to give in on rates, but he can't do it too quickly. If he does,
his leadership will almost certainly be challenged. Yet  the longer he waits,
the less time there is to negotiate any entitlement  reform. It's almost enough to wish him that two-taxpayer tax increase for
Christmas. ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  her on Twitter.) Ramesh : I’m not sure, Margaret, that Boehner is as worried
as people think about a leadership challenge from his right. My guess is that
two other irritants are more on his mind. The first is that all the Republicans taking negotiating positions to his
left on television. Senate Republicans, in particular, have to be annoying him:
They have no real power over any deal except to undercut Boehner’s negotiating
position, and that’s what they’re doing -- in return for airtime rather than for
any policy concession from the Democrats. If Boehner commanded a unified and
disciplined group of Republicans, he could credibly threaten to let the country
go over the cliff and stay over it until he got some concessions. The White
House, looking at the disarray that actually characterizes the Republicans, has
to be asking itself why it needs to concede anything, on tax rates or
entitlements. And Boehner knows it. The second irritant is Boehner’s negotiating partner. As one of 12 children,
the speaker doubtless learned to negotiate early. The Obama of  Bob Woodward’s
latest book  is a poor negotiator who thinks he’s a great one. Boehner has very little leverage and a negotiating partner who’s not very
good at negotiating. It seems highly unlikely that entitlement reform is going
to come out of this process. And as much as I’d like to see entitlement reform,
it also seems undesirable for it to come about in a few weeks of frantic deal-
making before an artificial deadline. You’re right that Boehner isn’t negotiating with last year’s Obama. But he’s
not negotiating with next year’s Obama, either. The further away we get from the
2012 election, the more the psychological balance in Washington will shift.
Republicans will regroup; Democratic momentum will slow. Maybe the smart play
for Republicans is to extend the middle-class tax cuts for a year, and see what
deal they can get at their new expiration date. See you next cliff. ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .