-- Wholesale Inventories in U.S. Rose More Than Forecast in October
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-12-11T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-rose-more-than-forecast-in-october.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
more than forecast in October, a sign goods are piling up in the
face of slowing demand.  The 0.6 percent increase in stockpiles followed a 1.1
percent gain in September, the Commerce Department reported
today in Washington. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
was a 0.4 percent advance. Sales declined 1.2 percent, the
biggest drop since June.  While the Commerce Department said it couldn’t quantify the
effect of Sandy on the data, it said companies reported both
positive and negative influences from the storm. A global
slowdown and looming U.S. tax and government spending changes
may weigh on orders, indicating distributors will want to keep a
tight rein on stockpiles.  “There’s still a lot of uncertainty,”  Paul Ashworth ,
chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in Toronto, said
before the report. “Consumers probably are losing a little bit
of momentum.”  At the current pace of sales, wholesalers had enough goods
on hand to last 1.22 months, the most since October 2009, the
report showed.  The median forecast for wholesale inventories was based on
a Bloomberg survey of 29 economists. Estimates ranged from a
decrease of 0.5 percent to 0.7 percent gain. The prior month’s
figure was unrevised.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 1 percent, boosted by automobiles
and computer equipment, today’s report showed. Demand for goods
meant to last at least three years dropped 0.9 percent.  Auto Sales  Auto sales at distributors dropped 3.1 percent in October,
the most since May 2011, which may reflect the influence of
Sandy. A report this month showed total industry demand
rebounded in November as vehicles damaged by the storm were
replaced.  The value of unsold non-durable goods fell 0.1 percent as
sales slumped 1.4 percent.  Wholesalers, which make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles, might be feeling the effects of rising retail
inventories. At New York-based jeweler  Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , year-end
stockpiles could be 10 percent higher than a year ago after
stores and distribution centers were closed by superstorm Sandy,
Chief Financial Officer Patrick McGuiness said on a Nov. 29
earnings call.  Retail stockpiles will be included in the business
inventories report due Dec. 13.  The fiscal tightening slated for next year threatens growth
and might set back employment. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan gauge of consumer sentiment fell to a four-month low in
December as Americans grew concerned about the possibility of
higher taxes next year.  Payrolls rose by 146,000 workers in November, the Labor
Department reported last week, exceeding the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Today, Federal Reserve policy makers begin a two-day
meeting at which they’ll consider whether to boost asset
purchases as a way to stimulate the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  