-- Why Brits Want Press Regulation and Americans Don’t
-- B y   B i l l y   B r a g g
-- 2012-12-11T23:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/why-brits-want-press-regulation-and-americans-don-t.html
Witnessed from across the Atlantic,
the U.K.’s heated debate over Justice Brian Leveson’s  inquiry 
into the press after a phone-hacking scandal must be startling.  Surely such a venerable democracy would never contemplate
using legislation to regulate journalists? The notion is no
doubt unthinkable to American citizens, whose freedoms are
protected by the Bill of Rights.  Well, Brits are considering ways to regulate the press, and
they should. I say this as a singer and songwriter who believes
in free speech, because this isn’t about censorship. It’s about
two concepts of freedom that derive from our very different
histories.  The American concept of freedom, as expressed in the
Constitution, is relatively new. The U.S. was established in the
late 18th century by a radical republican settlement whose
authors sought to be free men in their own dominion, no longer
subject to taxation and rule by a distant empire. That urge to
be free from central-government control still animates American
democracy.  Dynastic Struggles  We British have a different tradition. Our current,
unwritten constitution dates to 1689. It is only the most recent
in a series of settlements that have their roots in the great
dynastic struggles of the Middle Ages, and which established the
rights of British citizens.  The first of these settlements produced the  Magna Carta  in
1215, when England’s barons, tired of King John’s tyranny,
forced him to sign a document limiting the monarch’s power.
Another settlement came in the 16th century, when Henry VIII
broke from the authority of the pope in  Rome . This was part of
 Europe ’s Reformation, a process of shifting from Catholicism to
Protestantism that, among other things, stimulated nationalism
and the spread of the printing press.  The third great settlement emerged from the English civil
wars that pitted Crown against Parliament in the mid-17th
century. Once again the English railed against the tyrannical
power of a monarch who believed he was above the law. Charles I
lost that struggle, and England briefly became a republic, until
the monarchy returned. Even then the question of who ruled was
unresolved and Parliament staged a coup, ousting James II in
favor of the Dutch leader, William of Orange.  Before he took the throne in 1689, William was required to
sign a  Bill of Rights , guaranteeing parliamentary power and
privileges. That document, a division of powers between the
Crown and Parliament, gave birth to the constitutional monarchy
that still underpins the British state.  What is significant about these great settlements is that
they all occurred before the modern notion of freedom was
established. Before Thomas Paine asserted that freedom was
vested in individual liberty, the British found their freedom
through their collective struggle to hold those in power to
account. That’s a crucial difference.  To this day in the U.S., the concept of freedom is most
loudly expressed by those who wish to be free from the
institutions of society -- freedom from taxation, regulation and
the impositions of elites. On this side of the pond, it is more
often articulated by those who wish to be free to participate in
society -- to have freedom from poverty, treatable illness and
discrimination.  Mutual Bafflement  These two ideas of freedom explain why Americans and
Europeans (and the British are Europeans) sometimes look at each
other’s choices in bafflement. Why do Europeans not enjoy the
right to carry a gun? Why do Americans not enjoy the right to
free health care?  The fault line seems to run between those who emphasize
individual liberty and those who stress social responsibility.
Both strands exist in the U.K. With Leveson’s inquiry into the
ethics and practices of the press after the  News Corp. (NWS)  phone-
hacking case, these differing approaches to freedom have sought
to pull the report’s conclusions in opposing directions.  Newspaper proprietors and some politicians, for example,
have reacted against Leveson’s proposal to base a new press
regulator on laws. They say that freedom of the press offers us
protection from tyranny and that any legislation would undermine
this protection.  Yet in order to perform that important duty, the newspapers
must have the trust of the people. Sadly, in the past decade, an
ever more powerful group of proprietors has betrayed that trust
to such an extent that one of our newspapers,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News
of the World, was put down by its owner like a dangerous dog.  Appalled by the illegal hacking, false accusations and
prurient invasions of privacy that Leveson’s  2,000-page  report
catalogs, the British people -- as we have done throughout our
history -- sought a new settlement. This time it isn’t with
kings John, Charles and William or the Catholic Church, it’s
with the press. The new settlement that Leveson outlines would
hold newspapers and their owners to account, while enshrining
their rights in statute for the first time.  Over the past 50 years, the British press has been
regulated by a  commission  consisting of representatives of the
major publishers. This self-regulation manifestly failed to rein
in the worst excesses of checkbook journalism. Some editors
clearly adopted a laissez-faire attitude toward the commission’s
voluntary Code of Practice. Under the protection afforded a free
press, they mistook liberty for license.  Leveson’s report calls for the press to set up a new
regulator that is independent from Parliament and the newspaper
industry -- a recommendation that editors have signed on to,
albeit reluctantly.  The trouble is that the British people know they’ve been
here before: Leveson’s report was the sixth inquiry into press
behavior since World War II. So what guarantees do we have that
the press will no longer bend the rules to suit itself? To
ensure that every editor adheres to a new Code of Practice for
U.K. journalists, Leveson suggests that it be backed up by
legislation.  Press Tyranny  This debate is over how we respond when those who claim to
protect us from tyranny act like tyrants themselves. It is the
same territory on which all our great struggles for liberty have
been played out. Magna Carta established that no one in  England 
is above the law. This fundamental principle should be at the
heart of good journalism, as summed up in the old maxim that the
job of a newspaper is to comfort the afflicted and afflict the
comfortable.  What to do when the newspapers themselves constantly act as
if they are above the law? Without the ability to hold the most
powerful people in our society to account, our freedoms will
always be at the mercy of tyrants -- and that includes the
press. Democracy itself is a product of the endless struggle to
strike a balance between freedom and accountability. Leveson’s
recommendations are part of that balancing act; they are not an
attack on free speech.  (Billy Bragg is a singer-songwriter and activist based in
Dorset, England. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Billy Bragg at  office@braggcentral.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 