-- Wobbly Carmen, Throaty Jose Booed With Director in Paris
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-12-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/wobbly-carmen-throaty-jose-booed-with-director-in-paris.html
Catcalls for the director have
become almost routine at the Paris opera houses. That the
director and the two protagonists are noisily booed, by
contrast, is unusual.  Yet that’s what happened on opening night of the new
production of “Carmen” at the  Bastille Opera . It ended in
howls of protest.  There was a time when the Opera-Comique, where “Carmen”
premiered in 1875, could perform the work anytime with singers
from its own ensemble. Nowadays, the leads have to be imported:
Carmen is Italian; Don Jose and Micaela are Austrians. Only
Escamillo is French.  Georges Bizet, the composer, took it for granted that the
singers were francophone and could easily handle the spoken
dialogue. Although the singers at the Bastille Opera, which is
more than twice the size of the intimate Opera-Comique, are
discreetly miked, you have to look up to the surtitles to
understand what they say.  What really matters, of course, is their singing, not their
speaking.  Anna Caterina Antonacci took Paris by storm, nine years
ago, as an almost unbearably intense Cassandre in the first
complete staging of Hector Berlioz’s “Les Troyens” in  France .
Since then, her voice seems to have lost its oomph.  Cocktail Dress  Her Carmen is little more than an anemic cipher. When she
tries to increase the volume, her voice gets wobbly. Her blond
wig and her chic black costume, more cocktail dress than
workwear, are no help.  Nikolai Schukoff’s Jose has trouble with his top notes. For
the climactic B-flat of the Flower Song he resorts to falsetto.
Stunned by the boos at the curtain calls, he apologetically
pointed at his throat as if to say: “I’m innocent, here’s the
culprit.”  Ludovic Tezier, dressed in a garish white outfit a la  Elvis Presley , is a solid Escamillo. The best singing comes from Genia
Kuhmeier’s radiant Micaela, who had already been the bright spot
in Salzburg’s otherwise misguided “Carmen” last summer.  In an interview with the Opera’s house magazine, director
Yves Beaunesne had announced that he would shun Spanish folklore
and update the story to the period of the Movida, the 1980s when
the country rose from the ashes of the Franco regime.  What we get, therefore, is Micaela doing some laps on a
bike. The factory girls and smugglers look like revelers at a
street party.  Single Set  The backstage facilities of the Bastille Opera are among
the most sophisticated in the world. So why are we shortchanged
with a single, hangar-like set (Damien Caille-Perret)?  For the public spaces in Act I and IV, it works reasonably
well. In Act II and III, however, you have to have a vivid
imagination to believe that what you’re seeing is a tavern and a
secret path in the mountains.  The finale is even less convincing: Before Jose kills
Carmen, he forces a wedding dress on her. After her death, they
both assume a pieta-like pose. The crowd to whom Jose addresses
his final speech -- “You can arrest me!” -- is nowhere to be
seen.  Philippe Jordan  conducts with his customary elan though not
without some eccentric tempi.  Rating: *.  “Carmen” is in repertory at the Bastille Opera through
Dec.29. Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  George
Walden  on books and  Amanda Gordon ’s Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 