-- Women Lacking Top Jobs Makes Yahoo CEO Exception to Rule
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/women-lacking-top-jobs-makes-yahoo-ceo-exception-to-rule.html
Women made few inroads this year in
joining U.S. corporate boards or executive teams, even as high-
profile appointments at companies such as  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  spotlight
the potential for greater parity.  Women held 14.3 percent of executive positions at Fortune
500 companies as of June 30 and 16.6 percent of board seats,
figures that show “glacial progress” in boosting female
representation, according to a report published today by
 Catalyst , a non-profit researcher studying women and business.  Catalyst’s research indicates growth in female corporate
leadership has stalled, signaling  Marissa Mayer ’s rise to the
top job at Yahoo and Sheryl Sandberg’s board-seat victory at
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  are the exceptions. Less than a fifth of the
Fortune 500 had 25 percent or more board seats filled by women,
while more than a quarter had zero women in executive roles,
Catalyst data show.  “The lack of progress toward closing this gender
leadership gap is, to put it frankly, troubling,” Rachel
Soares, a senior research associate at New York-based Catalyst
and lead author of the report, said in a telephone interview.
“The companies that are taking deliberate and sustained actions
to advance women in leadership are in the vast minority, and all
the work that they’re doing is only providing enough momentum to
maintain the status quo of women lagging men.”  Wasted Talent  Women’s share of executive officer positions, defined as
president or any vice president in charge of a principal
business unit of the company, rose 1.4 percent this year from
2011, Catalyst data show. Among Fortune 500 companies, 27.8
percent had no women serving in top jobs at the end of the
second quarter.  “I’m very frustrated,” Toni Wolfman, executive adviser at
the Center for Women and Business at Waltham, Massachusetts-
based  Bentley University , said in a phone interview. “There’s a
lot of talent there that’s going to waste if companies don’t
figure out how to support and advance women in their
companies.”  On corporate boards, 51 companies in the Fortune 500 had
all-male directors as of June 30, Catalyst data show.  Growth in female board representation has stagnated even as
data from the Credit Suisse Research Institute show that
companies perform better when they have women directors. Shares
of companies valued at more than $10 billion that had female
board members outperformed comparable businesses with all-male
boards by 26 percent worldwide over a period of six years,
according to the report.  Executive Positions  “Companies with women at the top, in executive positions
and on the board, are being shown to be more profitable,” said
Betty Spence, president of New York-based National Association
for Female Executives, which provides resources for female
professionals and business owners. Progress in increasing
representation “is paltry in comparison to the talent that is
out there and is not being tapped,” Spence said in a phone
interview.  Companies that already have at least one female director
are more likely to appoint more women than those with all-male
boards, according to a separate report from Ernst & Young LLP
released yesterday. While women are joining U.S. company boards
at an increasing rate, with 40 percent of current female
directors attaining their positions within the last five years,
change has been incremental, Ernst & Young said.  To achieve greater gender parity, Catalyst will build a
directory of CEO-backed female board candidates and encourage
member companies to both sponsor women for addition and draw
from the list when making their own director nominations.  “It’s not fun to write the same headline year after
year,” said  Brande Stellings , vice president of corporate board
services at Catalyst. “We wanted to come up with a solution.”  Catalyst derives its data from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and National Association of Insurance
Commissioners filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  