-- Won Rises to 15-Month High on Fed, U.S. Budget Optimism
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-12-11T06:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/won-rises-to-15-month-high-on-fed-u-s-budget-optimism.html
South  Korea ’s won strengthened to a
15-month high as bets the  Federal Reserve  may add to monetary
stimulus and U.S. lawmakers will make progress in budget talks
increased demand for riskier assets.  The Dollar Index fell before the U.S. Federal Open Market
Committee begins its last meeting of the year today. President
 Barack Obama  extended an offer of cooperation with Republicans
yesterday over the so-called fiscal cliff of tax increases and
spending cuts that kick in next year, saying he’s ready to make
a deal.  South Korea  is concerned about herd behavior in won
trading and worsening of “one direction” will be the most
important factor in making decision on tightening of capital
flow management, Vice Finance Minister Shin Je Yoon said today.  “The won is facing continuous appreciation pressure as
there is increased appetite for riskier assets amid the Fed
meeting and expectations the fiscal cliff will be avoided,”
said Kim Dong Young, a Seoul-based currency trader for
Industrial Bank of Korea. “Government intervention, even if it
happens, will have limited effect on curbing gains.”  The won rose for a third day, appreciating 0.2 percent to
1,076.68 per dollar at the close in  Seoul , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 1,076.53 earlier,
the strongest level since Sept. 9, 2011. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in exchange rates used
to price options, rose nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 4.80 percent. The  Kospi index  of shares gained 0.4
percent, while  government bonds  were steady.  South Korea may impose daily limits on banks’ currency
forward holdings instead of the current monthly curbs, Deputy
Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku said yesterday. The U.S. faces a
$607 billion combination of tax increases and spending cuts due
to take effect in January which threatens to derail a recovery
in the world’s largest economy.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due September
2017 was steady at 2.96 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices
show. The one-year interest-rate swap declined one basis point
to 2.79 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  