-- Work Left After a Cliff Bargain, Pimco’s Clarida Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-12-11T14:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/work-left-after-a-cliff-bargain-pimco-s-clarida-says-tom-keene.html
A likely agreement to avoid
automatic U.S. tax increases and spending cuts will still leave
a lot of budget work to be done next year, according to Pacific
Investment Management Co. strategist Richard Clarida.  Lawmakers return to  Washington  today amid a potential thaw
in the U.S. fiscal policy dispute, as President  Barack Obama  and
House Speaker John Boehner attempt to make a deal to prevent
spending cuts and tax increases from taking effect. Democratic
lawmakers and Obama continue to insist that Republicans accept
higher tax rates for top earners before they will propose
spending cuts.  “I think we actually get an agreement before Jan. 1, but
there will be a lot of unfinished business, and this will be
going on well into 2013,” Clarida said in a television
interview  on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “The center of gravity in Washington is to avoid the
full hit of the fiscal cliff. This is really a proposal going
forward to start to put us on a more austere path, which means
if there is austerity, it will be back-loaded to a large
extent.”  If nothing changes, the stalemate may lead to a recession
in the first half of 2013, according to the Congressional Budget
Office. Obama and Boehner are trying to replace the immediate
deficit reduction in the so-called fiscal cliff with more
gradual tax and spending changes.  Outlook Issues  “Generalized uncertainty about the fiscal cliff in
particular has impacted capital spending this year just because
there is uncertainty over the cost of capital,” said Clarida of
Pimco, the world’s biggest manager of bonds funds. “If you don’t
know what the cost of capital is, it’s hard to make an
investment plan. If that were to be resolved, that’s a positive
for 2013.”  The Federal Reserve’s debt purchases, known as quantitative
easing, kept long term Treasury yields and mortgage rates low,
supporting growth, said Clarida, who is also a professor of
economics and international affairs at Columbia University.  The Fed begins today a two-day meeting of policy makers.
The central bank is expected to increase record accommodation by
announcing tomorrow $45 billion in monthly Treasury buying that
will push its balance sheet almost to $4 trillion, according to
a Bloomberg survey of economists.  What the Fed is doing “is working in an important sense
that we’ve avoided deflation, with inflation running at about 2
percent, and we are seeing progress on unemployment,” Clarida
said.  The U.S. economy added 146,000 jobs in November, beating
economists’ forecast for an 85,000 gain. The unemployment rate
fell to 7.7 percent as 320,000 people left the workforce. The
jobless rate had stayed above 8 percent since February 2009
until it fell to 7.9 percent in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  