-- Yankees Said to Name Ticketmaster as Secondary Market Partner
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-12-11T16:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-11/yankees-said-to-name-ticketmaster-as-secondary-market-partner.html
The  New York Yankees  will name
Ticketmaster as their official secondary market ticket provider,
a person with direct knowledge of the talks said.  The move would end the club’s formal relationship with
StubHub, which team President Randy Levine last season had
blamed for contributing to an attendance decrease at Yankee
Stadium.  The person who disclosed the pending change requested
anonymity because an agreement hasn’t been signed with the unit
of  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV)   No one at Beverly Hills, California-based Ticketmaster was
available to answer a call seeking comment on talks with the
Yankees. Levine declined to comment on the club’s ticket
partnership.  The Yankees were among three Major League Baseball teams
that yesterday opted out of the sport’s secondary market
contract with StubHub, a unit of  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  Baseball and StubHub
announced they had reached agreement on a five-year extension to
a contract that expired after last season.  Glenn Lehrman , a spokesman for StubHub, said in a telephone
interview that the Los Angeles Angels and  Chicago Cubs  also
opted out of the agreement, financial terms of which weren’t
disclosed by baseball or the company.  He said StubHub and MLB were working with Apple Inc.’s
Passbook to allow tickets to be carried on Smartphones and other
mobile devices.  StubHub allows fans to buy and sell tickets at market-rate
prices.  Levine said in June that StubHub was partly to blame for
the team’s drop in attendance last season. He said the club was
seeking a more fan-friendly alternative.  Lower Fees  The Yankees agreement with Ticketmaster will have lower
fees than StubHub and include terms that are favorable to
season-ticket holders, the person said. In addition, there will
be price floors on select tickets and a time restriction on when
some tickets can be purchased, the person said.  Fans will still be able to buy Yankees  tickets  on StubHub,
though buyers won’t be able to print them, the person said.  The Yankees averaged 43,733 fans a game last season,
second-best in the major leagues behind the  Philadelphia
Phillies , at 44,021.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  