-- 
Australian Producer Prices Rise Less Than Forecast on Cheaper Construction

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-10-24T01:51:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/australian-producer-prices-increased-less-than-forecast-1-.html
Prices paid by Australian producers
rose less than economists forecast as cheaper manufactured goods
and construction partly offset gains in utility costs.  The  producer price index  advanced 0.6 percent in the July-
to-September period from the prior quarter, when it gained 0.8
percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The
median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.8
percent increase. From a year earlier, the index’s advance
slowed for the first time since 2009.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia , which has kept the benchmark
interest rate at a developed-world high of 4.75 percent for
almost a year, has indicated an Oct. 26 government report on
consumer prices will help determine whether there’s scope to cut
rates. Australian employment growth has slowed and global risks
have increased, reflecting  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a
tumble in shares that erased $10 trillion worth of equities
worldwide last quarter.  Today’s report “will encourage those who expect the RBA to
ease policy,” said Roland Randall, an economist at TD
Securities Inc. in  Singapore . “However, while broad trends in
producer and consumer prices tend to correlate, we caution that
the PPI does not provide a good guide to CPI point by point.”  Weaker Currency  The Australian dollar, which fell 10 percent in the three
months to Sept. 30 against the U.S. currency, maintained earlier
losses after the report. The currency traded at $1.0339 at 12:50
p.m. in Sydney from $1.0376 on Oct. 21 in  New York  and $1.0342
before the data.  The PPI index rose 2.7 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier after a 3.4 percent annual increase the quarter
before. That was less than the median forecast of 2.9 percent in
the Bloomberg survey.  Today’s report showed the cost of automobile and parts
manufacturing declined 1.3 percent and building construction
dropped 0.3 percent. Electricity, gas and water prices gained
8.2 percent and commercial fishing jumped 14.1 percent, it
showed.  The RBA has signaled it can lower the nation’s benchmark
 interest rate  if necessary as a slower domestic economy eases
inflation pressures.  “It was likely that growth over the forecast period would
be somewhat slower and that the labor market would be less tight
than forecast,” the RBA said in minutes of its Oct. 4 meeting
released last week. “This prospect, as well as the lower
starting point for inflation, meant that the inflation outlook
appeared less concerning than was the case a few months ago.”  Australia’s core consumer prices probably rose 2.7 percent
in the third quarter from a year earlier, a separate survey of
economists showed before this week’s government report. The
central bank aims to keep underlying consumer inflation in a
range of 2 percent to 3 percent on average.  Investors bet there is a 76 percent chance RBA Governor
 Glenn Stevens  will lower the cash rate by a quarter percentage
point at the Nov. 1 meeting, up from 68 percent before today’s
report, interbank cash rate futures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  