-- 
Li Keqiang Pushes North Korea to Improve U.S. Ties, Invites Kim to China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-24T03:27:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/china-says-north-korea-should-boost-ties-with-u-s-south-korea.html
Chinese Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  told
North Korea’s premier yesterday that it is in the North’s
interests to have better ties with the U.S. and  South Korea ,
 China ’s official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Li, in Pyongyang on what Xinhua said was a “goodwill”
visit, held talks with North Korean Premier Choe Yong Rim
focused on bilateral ties between the two countries. North
Korea’s official Korean Central News Agency reported that Li
passed on an invitation for top leader  Kim Jong Il  to visit
China. Kim has made at least three trips to China since the
beginning of 2010.  Li, 56, who is in line to become China’s next premier
starting in March, 2013, is the latest in a procession of
members from China’s ruling Communist Party Politburo to visit
 North Korea  in the past two years. China has been pushing to
restart six-nation talks focused on Korean denuclearization that
fell apart in 2009 following a North Korean rocket test.  Li told Choe that China was ready to “promote the sound
and steady development of bilateral ties” and called for a
restart of the talks at “an early date,” Xinhua said.  China is North Korea’s biggest trading partner and its key
ally. China exported $2.08 billion worth of goods to North Korea
in the first eight months of this year, a 54 percent gain from a
year earlier, according to Chinese customs figures. The two
countries have been allies for more than six decades since
Chinese troops fought on the North’s side during the 1950-53
 Korean War .  China has maintained political relations with North Korea
as it trades with South Korea and the U.S. China’s  exports  to
South Korea totaled $62.1 billion in the first nine months of
the year and its shipments to the U.S. totaled $235.7 billion
during the same period, according to China’s customs
administration.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  