-- 
China Qinhuangdao Coal Price Increases to Three-Year High on Winter Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-24T03:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/china-qinhuangdao-coal-price-increases-to-three-year-high-on-winter-demand.html
China ’s power-station coal price
rose to the highest level in three years as power stations and
central heating plants built up stocks to meet winter demand.  Coal with an energy value of 5,500 kilocalories per
kilogram rose 0.6 percent to a range of 850 yuan ($133) to 860
yuan a metric ton as of yesterday compared with a week earlier,
according to data today from the  China Coal Transport and
Distribution Association.  That’s the highest price since Oct.
20, 2008.  The benchmark price has risen 3 percent since Sept. 11.
Inventories at the port, which ships half of China’s seaborne
coal supplies, climbed 3.2 percent to 5 million tons from a week
earlier and are at the third-lowest level this year.  The National Energy Administration said last month that
provinces in southern and central China, which rely on
hydropower, and areas that have low power tariffs, will face
tighter electricity supply in the winter and spring. The supply
shortfall may be as much as 26 gigawatts, the official Xinhua
news agency reported Oct. 20, citing Tan Rongyao, a spokesman
with the State Electricity Regulatory Commission.  Northern Chinese cities typically distribute heating from
centralized plants in November through March. The temperature in
northern China has dropped as much as 14 degrees Celsius (57
degrees Fahrenheit) since yesterday and the temperature in
central and eastern China will drop as much as 10 degrees
Celsius by tomorrow, according to the China Meteorological
Administration.  China, the world’s biggest coal consumer, bought record
amounts of the fuel in September as importers sought cheaper
regional supplies. Imports rose 25 percent to 19.1 million
metric tons from a year earlier, the National Development and
Reform Commission said on Oct.20.  The nation’s largest power stations had 70.9 million tons
of inventories as of Oct. 18, the equivalent of 20 days of
consumption, the NDRC said. That’s an increase of 6.3 million
tons from the end of September, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  