-- 
China’s Money-Market Rate Reaches One-Week Low as Growth Cools

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-10-24T03:03:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/china-s-money-market-rate-reaches-one-week-low-as-growth-cools.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
dropped to the lowest level in a week on speculation slowing
economic growth and easing inflation will give the central bank
more leeway to loosen monetary policy.  Government data last week showed China’s gross domestic
product grew 9.1 percent last quarter, the least since 2009.
 Isaac Meng , portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management
Co., said in Sydney today that the pace of expansion may cool to
7 percent in the next 12 months. China must continue efforts to
control food and housing prices, Premier Wen Jiabao said Oct. 22.  “I think there is a policy shift toward growth, but they
don’t want to let inflation expectations go,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .
“In the near term, there will be neither major tightening nor
loosening.”  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, fell four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 3.39 percent as of 10:46 a.m. in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. The rate touched 3.1 percent
earlier, the lowest level since Oct. 14.  A total of 477 billion yuan ($74.8 billion) of bills and
bonds may mature in October, more than last month’s 441 billion
yuan, Cheung estimated. In November, 225 billion yuan will come
due, she said.  Official data issued on Oct. 14 showed inflation moderated
to 6.1 percent last month after reaching a three-year high of
6.5 percent in July. Production capacity in manufacturing has
seen an “obvious slowdown,” People’s Bank of China Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  said in an online webcast on Sina.com.  The market will continue to see whether there is any
further change in the central bank’s bill auction yields this
week, according to a report today by  Ju Wang  at Barclays Capital.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, was unchanged at 3.51 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  