-- 
Texas Tax Fight May Spur Legislative Session, State Tells Court

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-10-25T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/texas-tax-fight-may-spur-legislative-session-state-tells-court.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry  may have
to call a special legislative session to address a revenue
shortfall if the state supreme court rules a 2006 business tax
unconstitutional because it wasn’t approved by voters, a lawyer
for the state said.  “In an era when every penny counts, taking the state’s
ability to tax partnerships away would obviously send the
legislature back into a special session,” Danica Milios, a
deputy solicitor general for Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott,
said at a court hearing yesterday in Austin.  The franchise tax is expected to raise $5.8 billion over
the next two years, about 8.6 percent of Texas’s general
revenue, Texas Comptroller Susan Combs estimated in January.
It’s expected to be the state’s second-biggest revenue generator
behind the  sales tax , which makes up almost two-thirds of
collections, she said in a  report .  The legislature, which meets every odd-numbered year, isn’t
scheduled to reconvene until January 2013. Perry, a Republican,
is competing for the party’s U.S. presidential nomination
against a field of candidates led by former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney. Perry is set to unveil a plan for a flat
tax later this week to replace the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  Attorneys representing Allcat Claims Service LP, an
insurance adjuster in Boerne, Texas, petitioned the Texas
Supreme Court on July 29, arguing the revised margins tax
represented an income tax on some partnerships. Since 1993,
Texas has required a popular vote to add a state income tax.  Revised Business Tax  The legislature revised its main business tax in 2006 after
the supreme court ruled in 2005 that the state’s school finance
system was unconstitutional. Legislators then cut local property
tax rates by one-third and expanded the so-called franchise tax
to apply to more businesses.  The tax has brought in less revenue than expected, partly
because of the weaker economy, prompting the legislature in June
to trim school funding by more than $4 billion over the next two
years compared with the previous biennium. A group of more than
150 Texas school districts earlier this month sued the state,
arguing the current funding system is inadequate, according to
the Equity Center, an Austin-based group that represents
districts on education issues.  Under the 2006 revision of the tax law, any challenges to
the legislation must go directly to the high court, jumping over
trial and intermediate appellate courts.  Texas Supreme Court justices questioned James Martens, an
Austin attorney representing Allcat, and Milios, asking if it
was the legislature’s intent that the high court be the initial
venue for the lawsuit.  Jurisdictional Issue  The state isn’t taking a position on the jurisdiction
issue, Milios said. The law passed in 2005 clearly intended for
the supreme court to decide, responded Martens.  Neither lawyer would estimate the amount of revenue that
would be affected should Allcat prevail.  “It’s a chunk,” said Milios.  A ruling is expected within 30 days, Martens said.  The case is Allcat Claims Service LP and John Weakly vs.
Susan Combs, Comptroller of Public Accounts of the State of
Texas, and  Greg Abbott , Attorney General for the State of Texas,
11-00589, Texas Supreme Court (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg at the Texas Supreme Court in Austin
at   dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 