-- 
Federal Reserve Likely to Increase Stimulus, Pimco’s Mather Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-10-24T02:56:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/federal-reserve-likely-to-increase-stimulus-pimco-s-mather-says.html
The  Federal Reserve  is likely to
increase monetary stimulus, including an expansion of its
balance sheet, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which oversees the world’s largest bond fund.  Growth in the U.S. will be constrained next year amid an
“unprecedented amount” of fiscal contraction,  Scott Mather ,
Pimco’s head of global  portfolio management , said at a briefing
today in Sydney. The Fed will start by changing its language
before taking steps to bolster the economy including efforts to
stabilize the housing market, he said.  “You’ll see the language change first and then probably
some of these other things,” Mather said. “They’re not done.
They’ve told us that there’s more that they’re thinking about,
that they can and will do.”  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said Oct. 21 that a third
round of large-scale securities purchases might become warranted
to boost an economy challenged by an unemployment rate of 9.1
percent and financial turmoil.  Policy makers are struggling over how to improve public
understanding of their actions, Philadelphia Fed President
 Charles Plosser  told reporters on Oct. 12. The Fed could make it
clearer how its policies hinge on inflation, inflation
expectations and resource utilization, he said after a speech in
Philadelphia.  Housing Support  As the U.S. economic outlook worsens, the Fed will probably
expand its balance sheet by undertaking some of the steps it has
hinted at previously, said Mather.  These may include “buying mortgages, trying to work with
the fiscal authority and regulators to get mortgage finance
costs down in the U.S. because they realize that would be very
powerful in supporting the economy,” he said. “That’s where we
sense there’s a higher degree of coordination now with the
fiscal authorities, with the regulators.”  Pimco founder  Bill Gross  boosted holdings of mortgage bonds
to 38 percent of assets in his $242 billion Total Return Fund in
September, from 32 percent the prior month, according to data on
the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s website.  Sales of existing homes dropped 3 percent in September to a
4.91 million annual rate, figures from the National Association
of Realtors showed Oct. 20. The median price dropped 3.5 percent
from a year ago and about one in five real-estate agents polled
said contracts had been canceled, the group said.  Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said Oct. 20 that the central
bank should consider resuming large-scale purchases of mortgage
bonds to boost growth.  The economy probably grew in the third quarter at the
fastest pace this year, economists said before a report Oct. 27.  Fiscal Contraction  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, rose at a 2.5 percent annual rate after advancing 1.3
percent in the previous three months, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Commerce Department’s report.  Fiscal retrenchment could subtract 1.5 percentage points to
2 percentage points from growth in 2012, a drag that will make
it difficult to reduce unemployment, economists at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG
said earlier this year.  “What makes us most concerned about going into next year
is that we have an unprecedented amount of fiscal contraction
baked into the cake,” said Mather.  The low growth and low inflation environment will benefit
U.S. Treasuries, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net 
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net 
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  