-- 
Mitsui to Double Power Capacity in Five Years, Expand Renewables

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-10-24T02:57:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/mitsui-to-double-power-capacity-in-five-years-add-renewables.html
Mitsui & Co.,  Japan ’s second-largest
trading firm, plans to more than double its power-generating
capacity within five years to profit from a global shift to spot
electricity sales rather than long-term contracts.  The company seeks to own as much as 12,000 megawatts of
power capacity, compared with 5,200 megawatts now, and is
targeting projects in southeast  Asia ,  North America , the  Middle
East  and  Africa , Yasutaka Fukumori, deputy head of strategy at
Mitsui’s infrastructure unit, said in an interview. Mitsui also
wants to bolster its share of renewable projects to 10 percent
of its investments from 3 percent now, he said.  “Globally, the trend is heading toward spot trading,”
Fukumori said. “It’s happened in the U.K., continental  Europe ,
America, and  Australia  with the market liberalization, and it’s
happening bit by bit in Asia and elsewhere.”  Starting in the U.K. in the 1980s, liberalization of the
power industry allowed independent generators to compete with
national utilities, buying and selling electricity on dedicated
exchanges. While this can reduce generating costs, exchange
trading has made power prices more volatile. In  Germany ,
Europe’s biggest economy, benchmark contracts to deliver
electricity next year have exceeded 90 euros ($124) a megawatt-
hour and dipped below 48 euros within the last three years.  Japan’s market, controlled by 10 utilities that generate,
transmit and sell almost all the country’s power, allowed Mitsui
to invest in only 10 megawatts of power.  Power Assets  Japanese traders, with offices and operations around the
world, have the opportunities to move in on power assets in
other countries, said Penn Bowers, an analyst with CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets in  Tokyo .  Mitsui agreed this year to study investing in Russian wind
and hydro-power projects with state-run OAO RusHydro after the
country dismantled its national utility and set up a power
exchange to foster competition. Mitsui has investment units
tracking the industry in the  United Arab Emirates , Australia and
Puerto Rico among others, according to its  website .  The company eventually plans to enter the Chinese and
Indian markets, which are currently difficult for foreign
companies to access, Fukumori said.  Mitsui, which posted $55 billion in revenue last year,
entered the power business in the 1980s as a minority investor
in a coal-fired power plant in  Pakistan , a project funded by the
 World Bank . By buying a 3 percent stake in the Hub Power
project, Mitsui won a power-equipment order, Fukumori said.  Power-Plant Operator  In 2004, Mitsui and  International Power Plc. (IPR) , a London-
based utility, paid about $2 billion for 4,666 megawatts of
assets, with the Japanese trader taking a 30 percent stake in
the venture. Mitsui’s first involvement as a “fully fledged”
power plant operator, not just an investor, came last year with
the purchase of five gas-fired power units in  Mexico , he said.  Mitsui took a 40 percent stake in the Mexican project, with
Tokyo Gas Co. buying 30 percent, Chubu Electric Power Co. taking
20 percent and Tohoku Electric Power Co. buying 10 percent. The
investment was partly motivated by the ease of maintaining gas-
fired power assets relative to coal, Fukumori said.  The Mexico purchase also cautioned Mitsui against moving
away from being an investor and becoming a traditional utility.
Becoming a lead operator meant putting power-plant assets and
project-finance loans on Mitsui’s balance sheet, as well as
dealing with technical and local staff problems, Fukumori said.  “We’ll be looking to increase our participation as a lead
operating company selectively,” Fukumori said.  Renewables Focus  Mitsui has stakes in power plants with total capacity of
23,000 megawatts and it generally takes a 25 percent stake in a
project, he said. Among Mitsui’s 31 power investments, nine are
fueled by wind, sunlight, or biomass, with hydro-electricity
accounting for two more. Hydro-power accounts for 10 percent of
Mitsui’s total capacity, compared with 3 percent from solar,
wind and biomass.  Renewables will play a greater role in Mitsui’s power
business, with wind projects being cheaper to build than solar
plants, Fukumori said. The global solar energy business tends to
rely more on government subsidies, introducing additional risks,
he said.  “With time, the cost of wind will be no different from
that of regular thermal plants and solar power will follow, and
that’s why we’d like to focus on them,” Fukumori said. Mitsui
is adding a 15-megawatt solar thermal plant in  Spain  and a 405-
megawatt coal-fired unit in  Indonesia , according to a company
presentation.  Mitsui’s machinery and projects unit, which includes sales
of power equipment, electricity, trains and water management,
increased net income by more than 50 percent in the last fiscal
year ended March 31 and accounted for 8.7 percent of the
company’s overall 307 billion yen ($4 billion) in profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  