-- 
Net Bills Buying at Record Pace as Investors Seek Yen Haven: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-10-24T03:34:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/net-bills-buying-at-record-pace-as-investors-seek-yen-haven-japan-credit.html
Overseas investors are boosting
holdings of Japanese short-term debt at a record pace as
 Europe ’s fiscal crisis and signs of a slowdown in the U.S.
economy boost demand for the Asian nation’s assets as a haven.  Money managers bought 14.8 trillion yen ($194 billion) more
in money-market instruments than they sold in 2011 through
September, set for the biggest-ever annual net purchases in data
going back to 2005, according to  Japan ’s Ministry of Finance.
Currency-hedged rates on three-month bills are 0.31 percentage
point more than similar-maturity U.S. securities, the highest
since June 2010.  “The increased inflows to Japan’s short-term securities
are likely from Asian investors looking for a refuge,” said
Makoto Noji, a senior debt and currency strategist in  Tokyo  at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., one of the 25 primary dealers
obliged to bid at Japanese government debt sales. “Considering
the current rates on U.S. Treasury bills, Japan’s bills are
attractive.”  The yen jumped to a post-World War II high last week on
speculation the  Federal Reserve  may seek further monetary easing
while Japan’s government will struggle to stem its currency’s
gains. The  European Central Bank  cut its growth forecast for the
region last month, following a pledge by its U.S. counterpart to
keep  interest rates  at a record low for two years to sustain the
economy. Japan’s currency has outperformed all of its major
counterparts over the past six months as risk-averse investors
piled into yen-denominated assets.  Currency Hedge  Japanese debt maturing in less than a year has returned
0.12 percent in 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data. The gain jumps to 6.7 percent when converted into dollars.
U.S. bills have risen 0.13 percent year to date, the data show.  The cost to convert yen proceeds from bills into dollars is
based on the difference between the London Interbank Offered
rates for three-month yen and dollar loans. Currency-hedged
purchases of securities don’t add to appreciation pressure on
the yen because investors buy the currency and sell futures on
it simultaneously, Noji said.  Japan’s 10-year bond yields were little changed at 1.01
percent today, or 1.2 percentage points less than the rate on
similar-dated  U.S. Treasuries .  The extra yield investors demand to own Japan’s corporate
bonds rather than government debt expanded three basis points
last week to 83 basis points, the highest since February 2009,
according to an index compiled by Nomura Securities Co.  Default-Swaps Rise  Credit-default swaps tied to Japanese government debt
advanced to 123.7 basis points on Oct. 21, from 117.6 a week
earlier, CMA prices in New York show. CMA is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Japan’s currency climbed 1.2 percent last week, the most in
more than two months, to close at 76.29 per dollar, and touched
a record 75.82 on Oct. 21. The yen has jumped 6.3 percent this
year against the dollar, the most among 16 major peers.  The yen tends to strengthen in times of financial turmoil
because Japan’s current-account surplus means it doesn’t have to
rely on foreign capital. Gains in the currency impair the
competitiveness of Japanese companies in overseas markets.  Government data this month showed Japan’s current-account
surplus narrowed in August for a sixth month. Even so, the
nation had the world’s second-largest surplus last year,
trailing only  China , according to data from the  International
Monetary Fund  in September. The U.S. and U.K. ran the biggest
current-account deficits, the figures show.  Overseas Assets  Japan was the world’s largest creditor at the end of last
year, with net overseas assets totaling 251.5 trillion yen,
according to a May report from the Ministry of Finance. The U.S.
had almost the same amount of net liabilities in 2009, while
China had net assets of 167.7 trillion yen, the data showed.  Japan’s creditor status “gives a feeling of safety” to
investors, said Masahide Tanaka, a senior strategist in Tokyo at
Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s third-largest bank
by market value. “Investors aren’t seeking returns now but are
rather looking for a place where risk is low.”  The  Bank of Japan  meets Oct. 27 and will keep the overnight
lending rate between zero and 0.1 percent, according to all nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Central bank Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa said economic uncertainties are high both in
Japan and abroad, in a speech in Tokyo on Oct. 21.  Economy Weakening  The government downgraded its assessment of the domestic
economy on Oct. 17 for the first time since April as the yen’s
strength and slowing global growth weighed on the prospects for
the nation’s export-driven recovery. Industrial output shrank
2.1 percent in September from the previous month, the first
decline since the 15.5 percent drop in March after a record
earthquake, a Bloomberg survey of economists shows before the
government report this week.  Japan’s gross domestic product will shrink 0.4 percent this
year, while U.S. GDP expands 1.7 percent, according to Bloomberg
surveys of economists.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average of Japanese shares has lost 14
percent this year. The nation’s 10-year bonds have returned 1.7
percent during the period, according to an index compiled by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “Institutional investors don’t have much choice but to
focus on yen-denominated bonds,” said  Satoshi Yamada , who helps
oversee about $13 billion as manager of fixed-income trading in
Tokyo at Okasan Asset Management Co. “They can’t put their
money in risk assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  