-- 
Hong Kong Banks Face Rising Risks on China Expansion, Fitch Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-10-24T02:52:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/hong-kong-banks-face-rising-risks-on-china-expansion-fitch-says.html
Hong Kong  banks may face “negative
rating action” as higher lending to  China  makes their loan
portfolios more risky,  Fitch Ratings  said.  “Hong Kong’s banks will likely cede some of their
historical strengths of robust capitalization and low risk
appetite if rapid growth in the mainland causes them to lower
their underwriting standards,” Sabine Bauer, a Fitch director
for financial institutions, said in a report today. Exposure to
China could rise to about 35 percent of Hong Kong banking assets
by 2012 from 24 percent at the end of June, Fitch said.  Hong Kong lenders have been making more China-related
credits since the city became China’s center for offshore yuan
business. Their loans to Chinese non-bank companies jumped 47
percent last year while total lending grew 29 percent, the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority said in an April circular asking banks
to review their business plans and funding strategies.  Liquidity at Hong Kong banks remains “adequate” and Fitch
doesn’t expect “near-term systemic liquidity pressures,” the
credit rating company said. Conditions could tighten suddenly as
the banking sector is sensitive to investor confidence in the
China growth story, global  risk aversion  and tighter cash in
advanced economies, it added.  Bigger Hong Kong banks and the units of international and
Chinese banking groups are “best positioned to maintain or
expand their market share, as competition will remain fierce in
servicing the larger companies with stronger credit profiles,”
Fitch said.  BOC Hong Kong (Holdings) Ltd., the largest Hong Kong-based
lender, jumped 3.5 percent to HK$18.38 as of 10:49 a.m. local
time. The Hong Kong unit of Bank of China Ltd. has dropped 31
percent this year, compared with a 19 percent decline in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  