-- 
Pageonce Lets Smartphone Users Pay Their Bills Simply, for a Fee

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-10-24T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/pageonce-lets-smartphone-users-pay-their-bills-simply-for-a-fee.html
Pageonce Inc.  built one of the most
popular finance applications for smartphones by letting users
view their bank statements, credit-card balances and utility
bills in one place. Now it’s helping them pay those bills.  The four-year-old startup, based in Palo Alto, California,
upgraded its app to let users make payments to 300 of the
biggest U.S. billers with the push of a button, Pageonce said
today. The app costs $4.99 a month and is available on  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android devices.  “To date we’ve been about viewing your finances,” said
Steve Schultz, chief operating officer at Pageonce, in an
interview. “Where we’re going is to let people take action
directly from their device. It’s the No. 1 feature request from
our customers.”  More than 5 million people have downloaded the Pageonce
app, giving them a central place to track their accounts, bills
and investments, and get alerts when payments are coming due. In
that market, the company competes with Mint.com, the personal-
finance service bought by  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  in 2009. Mint doesn’t have
a bill-pay option, and Pageonce is betting that consumers will
choose its service over those provided by banks because they can
do all their transactions from one app.  Aaron Forth, vice president of Mint and general manager of
Intuit’s personal finance unit, said a competitive product is
coming soon.  “Bill management is an important part of that, and we’ll
continue to make that process simpler, but aren’t ready to
disclose more of our plans at this time,” he said.  Another Fee  Getting people to buy the Pageonce app won’t be easy, said
Mark Schwanhausser, an analyst at Javelin Strategy & Research in
Pleasanton,  California , who covers personal financial management
and mobile banking. Consumers at some banks already are being
forced to pay new fees for checking accounts and debit-card
transactions.  “This is a very sensitive time to be talking about fees in
general,” Schwanhausser said. For Pageonce, “the challenge is
how do you make money at it -- and make money at it before
people really know who you are.”  Still, Schwanhausser gives good marks to Pageonce’s
technology because it’s easy to use and can help consumers end
their reliance on paper bills. It also lets users incorporate
all of their financial information and make payments from
different accounts, unlike bank websites that only let you pay
from accounts held at that institution, he said. For example, a
user of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s website can’t pay a bill using an
account from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   AT&T, PG&E  Pageonce was co-founded in 2007 by Guy Goldstein,
previously an executive at Mercury Interactive Corp. until the
software company was bought by  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in 2006 for
$4.5 billion.  Schultz joined Pageonce in 2010, after previously serving
as head of Yahoo! Inc.’s finance and real estate businesses in
North America. Pageonce has 54 employees, up from 34 at the
beginning of the year.  In addition to the biggest banks, Pageonce users can pay
bills to phone companies including  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon
Wireless, cable provider  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , utility companies such
as  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , and insurers including
 Allstate Corp. (ALL)  and State Farm Insurance Co.  As with other smartphone apps, Apple and Google will keep
30 percent of the revenue. Pageonce also makes money from
showing offers, such as credit cards with lower  interest rates .  For security, the company lets users protect the app with a
password and block access from the Pageonce website if the
device is lost or stolen. Consumers’ financial information is
housed on servers in a data center that Pageonce controls,
Schultz said.  Bill payment is just the start for Pageonce. The company
plans to upgrade the app to allow customers to transfer money
between accounts, make investments and send money to their
friends’ accounts, Schultz said. In May, the company said it
raised $15 million from investors including Morgenthaler
Ventures to enhance the product and expand its staff.  “We’re trying to untether people from their homes and
computers,” Schultz said. “We want them to be able to get
alerts and pay on the go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  