-- 
Rate Decision, ITC Earnings, Inflation Data: India Week Ahead

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-10-24T03:44:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/rate-decision-itc-earnings-inflation-data-india-week-ahead.html
India ’s central bank Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao will review his monetary policy this week after
raising the benchmark  interest rate  12 times since March, 2010
to tame inflation.  The  Reserve Bank  of India may increase the repurchase rate
by a quarter-percentage point to 8.50 percent tomorrow,
according to 13 of 19 economists polled in a Bloomberg News
survey. The rest predict no change.  Subbarao is under pressure to tame inflation that has
stayed above 9 percent since the start of December. The move may
contrast with nations from  Brazil  to  South Korea , which either
cut or held rates to protect their economies from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery.  Subbarao is also likely to weigh the risks to economic
growth in the South Asian nation.  India’s economy  may expand 7.8
percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said on Sept.
20, lowering an estimate of 8.2 percent it had in June. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development slashed
growth forecasts for the U.S. and  Japan  on Sept. 8 and said
central banks around the world should be ready to ease credit
should economies weaken.  Higher food costs and strong demand have thwarted attempts
by policy makers in India to rein in inflation. The commerce
ministry will release on Oct. 27 the food inflation data for the
week ended Oct. 15. An index measuring wholesale prices of
agricultural products rose 10.6 percent in the week to Oct. 8
from a year earlier, sustaining pressure on the central bank to
maintain its tight monetary policy.  Sterlite Earnings  ITC Ltd., the company that makes cigarettes and runs hotels,
will today announce its results for the quarter ended Sept. 30.
The company may say profit rose 18 percent to 14.7 billion
rupees ($295 million), according to the median estimates of 26
analysts.  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd., the biggest copper and
zinc producer, will also announce its results today. Its profit
for the quarter ended Sept. 30 may surge to 15.7 billion rupees,
according to the median estimates of 25 analysts polled by
Bloomberg.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, had the worst
weekly loss in a month on speculation European policy makers
will struggle to reach a resolution and the country’s central
bank may persist with monetary tightening. The Sensex fell 1.7
percent last week. Aluminum producer  Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) 
and  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , the nation’s largest
software services exporter, were the top losers.  The rupee fell past the 50 per dollar level for the first
time in more than two years on concern the central bank’s fight
against inflation will damp economic growth. The rupee slid 2
percent last week to 50.0250 per dollar in Mumbai, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s 10-year bonds fell last week, pushing yields to a
three-year high. The yield on the 7.8 percent notes due April
2021 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.82
percent in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate was the highest level for a benchmark 10-year
bond since August 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  