-- 
Bollywood’s Khan Craves Global Break After Most-Expensive Movie

-- B y   A r i j i t   G h o s h   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-10-24T03:06:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/shah-rukh-khan-tries-to-turn-bollywood-global-with-india-s-costliest-film.html
Movies, said Shah Rukh Khan,
Bollywood’s highest-paid actor, are like lipstick -- they are
immune to economic turmoil.  “When you’re depressed with inflation you want to watch a
movie,” said the 45-year-old star of 70 Bollywood productions.
“When you’re happy with elation you want to watch movies.”  In the current round of market volatility, Khan said his
ambition is to make the first Hindi movie that becomes a global
blockbuster. With Hollywood producing features that  cost  as much
as $250 million, compared with an average $6 million in India,
Khan has taken a step toward his goal by making India’s most
expensive film yet.  Popularly known as SRK, Khan is the lead actor and co-
producer of Ra.One, a science-fiction superhero movie that cost
more than 850 million rupees ($17.4 million) and premieres in
Dubai tonight.  “I want to be the first guy to make a Hindi film which the
whole world watches,” Khan said in an interview in Mumbai on
Oct. 14, wearing faded blue jeans, a black T-shirt and gold-
colored trainers, with his hair in a ponytail.  Khan said his model for international success is “Life is
Beautiful,” an Italian movie directed by Roberto Benigni that
won the U.S.  Academy Award  for Best Actor, Best Foreign Language
Film and the prize for the original score in 1999.  India  has submitted 43 movies for the Academy Awards’
foreign language category since 1957, of which three were
nominated. None won the Oscar. The nation churned out 1,274
movies in 2010, with Bollywood -- the Hindi-language part of
India’s film industry -- and Tamil movies leading the pack. At
the Cannes film festival, the last Indian feature-length movie
to win an award was when “Neecha Nagar” shared a prize in 1946.  Special Effects  Still, Ra.One, a special-effects heavy father-son film set
in cyberworld, is a long way from “Life is Beautiful,” a
father-son feature set in a Nazi concentration camp. The movie,
directed by Anubhav Sinha, has 3,500 visual effects, according
to Ujesh Desai, vice president at Nvidia Corp., which provided
graphic chips.  Khan’s production company Red Chillies Entertainment Ltd.
and co-producer  Eros International Media Ltd. (EROS)  are spending 850
million rupees on making and marketing the film, while other
partners could push the final total higher, said Khan.  The total cost for the movie may be 1.5 billion rupees,
according to  Komal Nahta , editor of Film Information, an Indian
movie trade journal.  “We have partners who might have spent a lot more in
marketing and that budget doesn’t come on us,” Khan said. “Our
partners said that ‘we have put the money on your dream.’”  “Kites”  New Delhi-born Khan plays the superhero G.One, who fights
the evil Ra.One, or Random Access Version One, of the title, a
name taken from Raavan, the villain in the Hindu epic Ramayana.
Details of the plot have been kept secret until the release.  The use of 3-D and special effects in Ra.One extends a move
by Bollywood to make films closer to the Hollywood style. Last
year’s “Kites,” an adventure film directed by Anurag Basu from
Mumbai-based Reliance Big Pictures Ltd. was the first Bollywood
film to open in the top 10 in  North America , while actor Amitabh Bachchan will feature in Baz Luhrmann’s “The Great Gatsby”
along with  Leonardo DiCaprio .  “We have got a lot of partners who believe in this kind of
technological advancement or who believe in this desire to bring
in some new kind of look,” said Khan, who gave the interview
during a media event hosted by Nvidia, where he was signing
G.One gaming cards for computers.  Cricket Team  Khan, an economics graduate from Delhi University who has a
dog called Chewbacca, named after a Star Wars character, said
Ra.One will be one of the first Hindi films to be released in
Russia, Germany and  China , adding to more traditional overseas
markets such as the U.S. and  Canada .  Eros and Red Chillies have “already recovered a major
portion of their investments through in-film branding, cable and
satellite and music rights,” Eros said in a statement Oct. 14.  Khan’s last movie “My Name is Khan,” which tells the
story of a Muslim in  San Francisco  at the time of the Sept. 11
attacks, grossed 900 million rupees overseas, according to
PricewaterhouseCoopers. The London-based professional services
firm forecasts international revenue for Indian movies may
increase 62 percent to $255 million in four years.  Khan, who owns the  Kolkata Knight Riders  cricket team,
began his career in television soaps “Fauji” (Soldier) and
“Dil Dariya” in 1988. His first movie was in 1991. He now
collects BMWs and endorses brands including Nokia Oyj and TAG
Heuer, the Swiss watchmaker owned by LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA. He said endorsement deals won’t prevent him from
sticking to his trade.  “I work with my hands, my eyes and nose,” he said.
“That’s what I’d like to continue doing till the end.”  “Ra.One” opens today in Dubai; tomorrow in  London  and Oct.
26 across India. Information:  http://www.raonemovie.com/   To contact the reporters on this story:
Arijit Ghosh in Mumbai at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 