-- 
Shanghai Homeowners Protest Developer’s Price Cuts, Daily Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-24T03:47:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/shanghai-homeowners-protest-developer-s-price-cuts-daily-says.html
Hundreds of Shanghai homeowners
gathered outside sales offices of  China  Overseas Property Group
Co. over the weekend protesting price cuts by the developer
after their purchases,  Shanghai Daily  reported today.  The buyers were demanding refunds or cancellations for
their purchase contracts after the property company lowered
prices for its project in Pudong district, the newspaper said.
The prices were reduced to about 16,000 yuan ($2,510) per square
meter (10.76 square foot) from 22,000 yuan, according to the
newspaper. The developer is a unit of Hong Kong-listed  China
Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , which is controlled by nation’s
construction ministry.  “We are communicating with the relative government
departments over the activities by the homeowners over the
weekend,” said Tang Minzhi, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at
China Overseas Land, declining to elaborate. She said she
doesn’t have details of any cuts because the prices fluctuate
daily and are tracked every quarter.  The protest, which wasn’t seen at its Pudong office today,
came less than a week after the nation’s  home prices  gained in
fewer than half of the 70 cities monitored by the government in
September for a second month as sales eased following harsher
policies. New home prices in the most affluent cities, including
 Shanghai  and Beijing, were among 30 that were unchanged from
August, the statistics bureau said, while 16 cities posted
month-on-month declines.  ‘Cold Winter’  Chinese developers’ credit outlook will be “increasingly
severe” amid government efforts to curb rising home prices,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a report on Sept. 27. The government
increased down-payment requirements and  mortgage rates  on some
homes this year and issued home purchase restrictions in about
40 cities.  “Developers are facing a cold winter and most of them are
under cash pressure as the government tightens lending,” Zhao Duo, a real estate analyst at Sealand Securities Co. in Shenzhen,
said by phone. “To attract buyers and boost sales, they must
lower home prices further.”  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said over the weekend that the
control of the  property market  is at a “critical” period and
the nation must continue efforts to control food and housing
prices to ease soaring inflation and maintain economic
development and social stability.  Longfor Properties Co. said last week it priced its
Shanghai luxury villa project “Affecting Yard” at a similar
level as neighboring developments, responding to a Shanghai
Securities News report about its reduction. Longfor said it
usually prices their projects above the market rate.  China’s central bank has raised its benchmark lending rate
three times this year and lifted lenders’ reserve requirements
six times.  --Jiang Jianguo. With assistance from Winnie Zhu in Shanghai.
Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jiang Jian-guo in Shanghai at 
 jjiang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  