-- 
Yield Premium Shrinks Amid Slowdown: China Credit

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-10-24T01:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-24/yield-premium-shrinks-amid-slowdown-china-credit-correct-.html
(Corrects third paragraph to show  China  is Asia’s largest
economy)  Chinese government bond yields are
falling at the fastest pace this year relative to U.S.
Treasuries as a slowing economy curbs inflation.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes narrowed 39
basis points this month to 156, after reaching a record 235 a
month ago, according to data compiled by Chinabond and Bloomberg.
The gap is poised to shrink the most this month since December,
after widening 122 in the third quarter. China’s 3.73 percent
yield compares with 11.64 percent on similar-maturity debt in
 Brazil , 8.8 percent in  Russia  and 8.82 percent in  India .  The government’s borrowing costs are declining as the
weakest economic expansion in two years fuels demand for the
safest assets and decelerating inflation fans speculation the
central bank will ease monetary policy. Growth in  Asia ’s largest
economy slowed to 9.1 percent in the third quarter, and consumer
prices advanced 6.1 percent last month, the least since May,
official data show.  “The falling yield premium is the result of worsening
growth expectations, which have dropped significantly for
China,” said  Ju Wang , a Singapore-based senior analyst at
 Barclays Capital . “Should we continue to see the spread narrow,
that would mean growth prospects in China keep softening and
lead to fewer inflows.”  Central bank purchases of overseas currencies from the
nation’s lenders, a guide to capital inflows, totaled 247
billion yuan ($39 billion) in September, compared with a monthly
average of 326 billion yuan this year, official data show.
China’s foreign-exchange reserves fell $60.8 billion to $3.2
trillion in September, the first decline since May 2010, while
direct investment from abroad grew at the slowest pace in three
months, separate reports showed.  Falling Yuan  The yuan weakened 0.1 percent last week to 6.3840 per
dollar in Shanghai, paring this year’s advance to 3.2 percent,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. Twelve-
month non-deliverable forwards slid 0.2 percent to 6.4175, a 0.5
percent discount to the spot rate, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the currency fell 0.1
percent to 6.4258.  The People’s Bank of China raised  interest rates  three
times this year and boosted lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios
on six occasions, seeking to rein in an inflation rate that hit
a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July amid rising food prices.  China may cut interest rates and introduce a new stimulus
plan equal to trillions of yuan should slowing growth become
“more serious,”  Wang Jian , secretary general of the National
Development and Reform Commission’s China Society of
Macroeconomics, said in the China Securities Journal on Oct. 18.
The economy may cool rapidly as a result of bankruptcies of
small- and medium-sized companies through early 2012, Wang said.  Stocks Drop  “A lot of bears are playing around the China theme,” said
Nathan Chow, an economist in Hong Kong at DBS Group Holdings Ltd.
“Look at the foreign-exchange market. The appreciation of the
renminbi has diminished quite significantly,” he said,
referring to the yuan by its Chinese name.  The country’s government debt is climbing as stocks slump.
China’s 10-year bond yield fell 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, last week to 3.73 percent, while the  Shanghai 
Composite Index of shares tumbled 4.7 percent, the biggest loss
since May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The State Council unveiled measures this month including
tax breaks and easier access to bank loans to help small firms,
after the collapse of manufacturers in Wenzhou city. The
nation’s growth is “sound,” Xia Bin, a central bank adviser,
said on Oct. 19, and he doesn’t believe the government will
launch “another round of major economic stimulus.” The central
bank should stick to its “prudent” monetary policy, he said.  ‘Manageable Rate’  “China is undoubtedly slowing, but at an entirely
manageable rate,” Glenn Levine, senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney, wrote in an Oct. 17 note. “Weaker demand
from developed economies will hurt, but market concern about a
 hard landing  appears exaggerated.”  China’s yield advantage over Treasuries is still attractive
enough to lure funds as the country’s economy remains resilient,
DBS’s Chow said. Gross domestic product will climb 9.5 percent
this year and 9 percent in 2012, the  International Monetary Fund 
forecast last month. The  U.S. economy  is predicted to grow 1.5
percent in 2011 and 1.8 percent in 2012.  No ‘Hard Landing’  “I don’t see any chance of a hard landing in China,” said
Chow. “The spread will maintain, which would attract inflows
from abroad and the renminbi will continue to have appreciation
pressure in a longer-term perspective.”  The 10-year yield gap has averaged 100 basis points this
year, almost four times the 28 basis-point spread in 2010.
China’s retail sales increased 17.7 percent in September from a
year earlier and industrial production grew 13.8 percent,
official data showed on Oct. 18, both exceeding the median
estimates in Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting Chinese
government debt against default fell one basis point last week
to 142 basis points, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. The contracts insure debt
against non-payment, and traders use them to speculate on  credit
quality .  China can still achieve 7 percent to 8 percent economic
expansion amid a global recession as the government will be able
to fund a stimulus package should it be needed, Yu Yongding, a
former central bank adviser, said in Beijing on Oct. 21.  ‘Spin Out of Control’  Investors should prepare for a “hard landing and yuan
devaluation,”  Albert Edwards , Societe Generale SA’s global
strategist in  London , wrote on Oct. 20. Excessive investment may
mean that the economy “could easily spin out of control and
crash,” he wrote.  The average yield on yuan-denominated debt sold in  Hong
Kong , known as Dim Sum bonds, increased 51 basis points to 3.65
percent this month, according to HSBC Offshore Renminbi Bond
Index data.  “Some of the hot money is returning to their native
origins due in part to a shortage of liquidity in Europe and the
U.S. and as some investors have the concern that  China’s economy 
is slowing,” said Wang Jianhui, an analyst in Beijing at
Southwest Securities Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  