-- M&A Falls to 5-Year Low Amid Approval Anxiety: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-08-28T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/m-a-falls-to-5-year-low-amid-approval-anxiety-corporate-brazil.html
Takeovers in  Brazil  fell 42 percent
so far this year and are on track to reach a five-year low, as
an antitrust law causes companies to delay acquisitions and the
economy slows.  The dollar amount of deals declined from a year earlier to
$42.5 billion, while dealmaking worldwide fell 18 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Companies have announced 129 mergers
or acquisitions in Brazil valued at $8.18 billion, down 53
percent from the same period a year earlier, after the June 1
implementation of a law requiring buyers to seek antitrust
approval before closing transactions.  The drop will cut into fee revenue and boost competition
among investment banks and advisers, said Henrique Machado
Barros, innovation and strategy professor at  Sao Paulo  business
school Insper. While the law won’t affect acquisitions announced
in the first half of 2012, including Cosan SA Industria &
Comercio’s $1.8 billion purchase of a stake in Cia. de Gas de
Sao Paulo, it will hinder dealmaking through the end of the
year, said Otavio Guazzelli, head of  investment banking  at BR
Partners.  “Deal announcements will slow down through the rest of the
year, as people will wait to see how the antitrust authority
will judge the new cases,” said Marco Goncalves, head of M&A of
BTG Pactual SA, which ranks fourth among M&A financial advisers
in Brazil, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “Companies
will go forward with a deal only if they have 100 percent
certainty,” he said at  Bloomberg Link ’s Brazil Economic Summit
on Aug. 14.  The average size of transactions announced decreased this
year to $200 million compared with $300 million a year earlier,
while the number of deals increased by 10 percent.  330-Day Reviews  Under the legislation, the antitrust authority known as
Cade has said it will take no more than 330 days to review a
proposed merger. Previously, companies filed requests to review
a deal after an accord had already been closed, allowing
operations to be integrated before approval from Cade, which
took as long as two years in some cases.  “The kickoff of the new antitrust law was an important
catalyst for deals in the first half,” Jean Marc Etlin, Banco
Itau BBA SA’s investment banking chief executive officer, said
in an interview at the bank’s headquarters in Sao Paulo. Itau,
Brazil’s top M&A financial adviser, worked on 11 of the 87 deals
announced in May that totaled $8.88 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The merger law, which Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
signed late last year, eases concern among companies and
investors because deals have “a stamp of approval” before
being completed, Cade President Vinicius Carvalho said.  Blocking Nestle  In 2004, Cade blocked Nestle SA’s 2002 acquisition of
Garoto,  Latin America ’s biggest chocolate maker, based in Feira
de Santana, Brazil. Eight years later, Nestle is still fighting
to overturn the ruling, which would require it to separate the
already-merged operations. Nestle’s press office in Sao Paulo
declined to comment.  Companies rushed to complete deals before the law took
effect, which concentrated deals in the first half, Carvalho
said.  “In the last 15 days before the new law took effect, we
had the average of about three months’ worth of cases being
submitted to Cade for review,” he said in an interview from
Brasilia. “It was expected that we would see a reduction of
merger cases being announced afterward.”  Slowing growth in the world’s largest emerging market after
 China  has also weighed on M&A activity. Rousseff’s
administration has cut the  benchmark Selic rate  to a record low
8 percent, pressured commercial banks to increase lending and
reduced taxes to revive growth.  Brazil’s economy will expand 1.9 percent in 2012, down from
2.76 percent last year and less than  Japan , U.S., China,  India 
and  Russia , according to Bloomberg surveys.  Infrastructure Investments  “Brazil is very much in need of capital to sustain the
growth of certain sectors like infrastructure,” Daniel Wainstein, chairman of investment banking in Brazil for Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., said in an interview in Sao Paulo. “M&A
transactions that make sense will happen in any regulatory
environment.”  Transactions involving foreign companies represented more
than half of Brazil’s M&A volume so far this year. Abu Dhabi’s
Mubadala Development Co. agreed in March to buy a $2 billion
stake in EBX Group Co., the Rio de Janeiro-based company that
controls Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s energy and
commodity companies. Sao Paulo-based Camargo Correa SA offered
that same month to buy the rest of Cimpor Cimentos de Portugal
SGPS SA that it didn’t already own for 4 billion euros.  ‘Emerging-Markets Strategy’  The trend may accelerate as “the lengthening of the
 European debt crisis  is forcing companies to review their
emerging-markets strategy,” Itau’s Etlin said. BTG’s Goncalves
sees opportunities for Brazilian companies to buy subsidiaries
of European companies.  Paris-based Vivendi SA,  Europe ’s biggest media and
telecommunications company, hired Rothschild and Deutsche Bank
AG to study strategic options for its Brazilian phone operator
GVT, people familiar with the matter said, according to an Aug.
16 Bloomberg News story.  ThyssenKrupp AG,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, said May 15
a sale of its Brazilian and U.S. plants is among “strategic
options” for its unprofitable Americas unit.  The June 1 law brings Brazil in line with antitrust
standards in the U.S. and Europe, said Luis Riesgo, head of
Latin America practice at law firm  Jones Day , based in Sao
Paulo. He expects deals to slow for about six months as
companies get used to the regulations before picking up again in
2013.  “When the macroeconomic environment improves -- if it
improves -- we’ll see transactions coming,” Guazzelli at BR
Partners, a financial adviser based in Sao Paulo, said at the
Bloomberg Link event. “This is a time of wait and see.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  