-- M&T Snaps Up Distressed Lenders as Prey Becomes Predator
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-08-28T11:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/m-t-snaps-up-distressed-lenders-as-prey-become-predator.html
M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) ’s $3.7 billion
takeover of Hudson City Bancorp, the largest bank deal announced
this year, solidifies the Buffalo, New York-based lender’s
status as a hunter instead of the hunted.  M&T Chief Executive Officer Robert Wilmers has added about
$40 billion to both its loan and deposit books since 2008
through at least four acquisitions, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. With Hudson City, M&T probably will rank 14th by
assets and 11th by deposits among U.S. commercial banks.  Wilmers has converted M&T from a takeover target in the
years following the financial crisis into an acquirer. After on-
and-off merger talks with  Banco Santander  SA broke down in 2010,
M&T pursued struggling lenders and didn’t sacrifice its balance
sheet for earnings growth, said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets .  “It has given them the ability to buy distressed companies
at bargain-basement prices and repair those companies to their
old luster,” said Cassidy, who works in Portland, Maine, and
rates M&T outperform. “A number of the other banks were growing
for growth’s sake. It was kingdom-building, building of egos,
and M&T just doesn’t do that.”  The latest deal is M&T’s largest among those with announced
values, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The biggest U.S. banks,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Citigroup Inc., have had to step back from
buying lenders in the wake of the crisis because of regulations
that prohibit them from holding 10 percent or more of the
nation’s deposits.  M&T Shares  Since the beginning of 2008, M&T has been the fourth-best
performer in the  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , returning 10 percent to
shareholders. The bank’s shares are trading at more than 2 times
tangible book value, which measures what investors are willing
to pay for after removing intangible items such as goodwill and
brand names that have little value in a liquidation.  M&T gained 4.6 percent to $89.82 yesterday in  New York  and
has advanced about  18 percent  this year.  The lender’s price to tangible book value is the third-
highest in the 24-company KBW Bank Index behind Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. and U.S. Bancorp, the Minneapolis-based lender run
by CEO  Richard Davis , who has called his banking strategy of
taking deposits and making loans “boring.”  ‘Distressed’ Banks  “We look for good value for our shareholders, and if that
means there’s something distressed about it, we’ll look at
that,” Wilmers, 78, said in a telephone interview. “More often
we look at something distressed because if there’s a bidding
contest going on, we usually don’t win because we don’t like to
overpay because that would be dilutive for our shareholders.”  M&T counts  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  as one
of its largest shareholders. The firm held about 5.4 million
shares as of June 30, or a 4.3 percent stake in the company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brian Klock , an analyst at KBW Inc., said investors may be
hesitant to buy M&T shares.  “Eight of the 11 large regional banks are trading at
tangible book or lower,” Klock said in an interview. “It’s
hard to pay two times for M&T.” He rates the lender market
perform.  M&T completed its purchase of Wilmington Trust Corp. last
year, acquiring the Delaware bank founded by the du Pont family
for about $406 million in stock. Wilmington Trust had put itself
up for sale amid losses fueled by soured commercial real estate
loans and investments in pools of trust-preferred securities.  Delaware Growth  The deal built M&T’s market share in Delaware and expanded
 wealth management  and corporate services to boost fee income. It
also valued Wilmington Trust about 46 percent less than its
closing price at the time of the announcement in November 2010.  M&T bought Provident Bankshares Corp. in 2009, a $269.3
million stock deal that added deposits in the U.S. mid-Atlantic
region. The transaction added 143 branches, $4.6 billion in
deposits and $4.3 billion in loans.  M&T is an “umbrella of safety and soundness and prudency
that helps when you get into some of these banks that have
challenges,” said  Marty Mosby , a Memphis, Tennessee-based
analyst at Guggenheim Securities LLC, who rates the shares
neutral.  Banco Santander, Spain’s biggest bank, was said to be in
talks in 2010 to combine M&T with its U.S. banking unit, people
with knowledge of the matter said at the time. Talks broke down
over a disagreement about who would control the business, one of
the people said.  Investor’s Mentality  Wilmers, who has run M&T since 1983, has about 3.9 million
shares, making him the seventh-largest  shareholder , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. His investor’s mentality led to
deals that benefit shareholders, Cassidy said.  “This is a company that makes very good acquisitions,
implements them very well, and executes on a plain-vanilla,
basic-banking strategy that assumes everybody’s products are the
same,” he said.  Wilmers is “setting the tone,” Guggenheim’s Mosby said.
“He’s still actively involved and has a very experienced
management team that in our mind focuses on the things that can
continue to build  shareholder value .”  With the Hudson City acquisition, M&T will have total
assets of $109 billion, a boost from $80.8 billion at the end of
the second quarter. Deposits would jump to $87 billion.  New York  M&T is acquiring branches in  New Jersey , Connecticut and
the Long Island region of New York, areas where the firm didn’t
previously have a significant presence.  Hudson City’s bullish options trading  jumped  to the highest
level since March 2011 on Aug. 3 as more than 14,000 calls to
buy the stock changed hands as part of a dividend strategy.
That’s 13.7 times the four-week average and compares with 4 puts
to sell, the data show.  An investor also bought 2,900 Oct. $6 calls on Aug. 10 for
about 75 cents a contract, according to Trade Alert, a New York-
based provider of options-market data. The price of that option
doubled to $1.50 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I do not believe there is anything unusual about the ex-
dividend flow on Aug. 3, but we did see an outsized spike in
call volume on Aug. 10,” Trade Alert’s  Henry Schwartz  wrote in
an e-mail. “The position is up about $142,000, a 100 percent
return. We don’t see that very often.”  Hiring Plan  Hudson City was developing a plan to hire 230 people over
the next few years “and do the kind of things that M&T was
doing” when they were sought out by the larger lender, CEO Ron Hermance, 65, said on a conference call yesterday. “It wasn’t a
competitive process.”  Hermance returned to Hudson City Aug. 1 after taking
medical leave in February to receive a bone-marrow transplant.
M&T’s discussions with Hudson City have been going on for about
the last four months, Wilmers said in the interview.  Hudson City was the largest U.S. bank to forgo a government
bailout. The lender took an after-tax charge of $440.7 million
last year from the early repayment of $4.3 billion of so-called
structured putable borrowings. The company said it was under
pressure from regulators to reduce risk.  Denis Salamone, Hudson City’s acting chairman and CEO, said
earlier this year that it had become difficult for the bank to
profitably expand its residential-lending portfolio amid record-
low  interest rates  and the participation of government-sponsored
enterprises in the market. As a result, it began evaluating a
“variety of strategies” to adapt, he said.  “The strong banks are clearly taking advantage of buying
the weaker banks at distressed prices to the benefit of their
shareholders, as evidenced by this deal,” Cassidy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at   rgreen18@bloomberg.net  