-- Abbott’s Humira Backed by FDA Advisory Panel for Colitis
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-08-28T20:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/abbott-s-humira-backed-by-fda-advisory-panel-for-colitis.html
The benefits of using  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) ’ rheumatoid arthritis drug Humira for patients with
a type of ulcerative colitis outweigh the risks, a U.S. advisory
panel said.  Advisers to the  Food and Drug Administration  voted 15-2
today in support of Humira’s use in those with moderate to
severe ulcerative colitis who don’t respond to conventional
therapies. They also voted that the  Abbott Park , Illinois-based
company doesn’t need to conduct more drug studies in advance of
approval. The FDA isn’t required to follow the recommendations.  Abbott is seeking to expand the use of Humira, the
company’s top-selling product, in six illnesses, including
ulcerative colitis and pediatric Crohn’s disease. Together, the
new indications would contribute about $1 billion in sales, said
Elizabeth Hoff, a company spokeswoman. Abbott still must find
the best dose for colitis patients,  panel  members said.  “There is a need and desire to explore higher doses, and
understand the need and potential for this drug,” said Ivan
Fuss, a scientist with the  National Institutes of Health  in
Bethesda,  Maryland . “It’s almost like a learner’s permit for a
driver’s license. There’s more experience needed.”  Ulcerative colitis  causes inflammation and ulceration in
the lining of the colon or large intestine and affects 700,000
people in the U.S., according to Abbott. The symptoms include
frequent diarrhea, abdominal pain and rectal bleeding.
Conventional medications include corticosteroids and
immunosuppressants.  Abbott  shares  rose less than 1 percent to $65.73 at the
close in New York. The company has gained 17 percent this year.  Staff Questions  FDA staff has been skeptical about Humira’s benefits for
colitis patients. While two trials of the drug for moderate to
severe ulcerative colitis met the studies’ goals, FDA staff in
an Aug. 24 report questioned the “clinical meaningfulness” of
a difference between patients’ reaction to the medicine and a
placebo. The staff also  said  limitations to the studies
“introduced uncertainty” to the results.  The panel also voted, 14-3, in agreement with the FDA’s
assessment that Abbott hasn’t found the right dosage for the
drug in ulcerative colitis.  Humira was approved for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis
in 2002. It generated about $8 billion in  sales  last year for
Abbott and competes with Johnson & Johnson’s  Remicade (JNJ) , which is
cleared to treat rheumatoid arthritis and ulcerative colitis.
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  is studying its experimental rheumatoid arthritis
pill tofacitinib in the bowel disease as well.  Easier Use  Unlike Remicade, which requires a doctor to administer the
medicine intravenously, Humira can be self-injected, John
Medich, head of clinical development for immunology at Abbott,
said in a telephone interview.  The risks with Humira are similar to those of Remicade,
which are both TNF-antagonists and carry a boxed warning for
serious infections such as tuberculosis and for malignancies.  Of the 248 ulcerative colitis patients treated with Humira
in an Abbott study, 17 percent achieved clinical remission
compared with 8.5 percent who took a placebo after a year, the
company said in a May 2011 statement. Clinical remission is
measured on a scale that evaluates stool frequency, rectal
bleeding and ulcers sighted during endoscopy.  FDA staff last week acknowledged the benefit of convenience
with Humira over Remicade, while questioning whether “moving
patients from an effective treatment to potentially less
effective treatment, while still exposing them to the comparable
serious safety risks, is a concern.”  The FDA is scheduled to decide whether to approve the drug
by the end of September, according to documents filed with the
agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  