-- Thai Bev Increases Fraser & Neave Stake to Near Maximum Level
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-08-28T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/thai-bev-increases-fraser-neave-stake-to-near-maximum-level.html
Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV)  boosted its
holding in Fraser & Neave Ltd. to 29 percent, putting it just
below the level at which acquirers of company stakes are
expected to begin takeover offers.  Thai Bev, controlled by Thai billionaire  Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi , acquired an additional 2.6 percent stake for
about S$316.1 million ($252.4 million), the Bangkok-based
company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Singapore’s
takeover guidelines require a buyer of a 30 percent stake to bid
for the rest of the company in a so-called open offer.  The purchase will give Charoen’s company a greater voice
when F&N shareholders vote on  Heineken NV (HEIA) ’s $4.5 billion offer
for F&N’s 40 percent stake in  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)  Even
with the higher stake, the Thai brewer won’t be able to scuttle
Heineken’s bid without the support of a sufficient number of
outside shareholders to give it a 50 percent voting majority.
ThaiBev may also face hurdles raising cash to buy the whole of
F&N, which has a market value of S$11.8 billion.  “By increasing the stake, it puts pressure on Heineken to
react, but it’s quite difficult for them to mount a general
offer because it’s stretched financially,” said Goh Han Peng, a
Singapore-based analyst at DMG & Partners Research Pte. “For
F&N shareholders, especially for funds, most will go for the
sale if they are able to monetize APB at such a good price.”  Heineken has sought full control of APB as it attempts to
protect its hold over a key emerging-market business and as
brewing assets in high-growth economies are in short supply
after a decade of consolidation in the industry.  Heineken, the world’s third-biggest brewer, on Aug. 17
raised its offer for a controlling stake in the maker of Tiger
beer to S$53 a share from S$50 to prevent a company linked to
Charoen from disrupting its takeover plans. Kindest Place Groups
Ltd., controlled by Charoen’s son-in-law, had offered to buy 7.3
percent of the brewer from F&N for S$55 per share.  APB, set up in 1931 as a joint venture between F&N and
Heineken, has rights to brew Bintang beer in  Indonesia , Anchor
in China, Southeast Asia and  Sri Lanka , and Heineken from China
to  New Zealand .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at   acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  