-- Taiwan’s Dollar Weakens Before Bernanke Speech; Bonds Advance
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-08-28T09:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/taiwan-dollar-fluctuates-as-bernanke-speech-sidelines-traders.html
Taiwan’s dollar weakened on
speculation traders are limiting currency bets until the  Federal
Reserve  clarifies its policy intentions.  Government bonds  rose.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  delivers a speech on Aug. 31
in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming that may shed light on the likelihood
of a third round of bond purchases, a policy known as
quantitative easing that boosts the supply of U.S. dollars.
Additional stimulus in the world’s biggest economy may help
revive Taiwan’s exports, which fell in six of the last seven
months, as well as spur demand for emerging-market assets.  “Most participants are holding their breath just in case
Bernanke signals any new measures,” said Tarsicio Tong, a
currency trader at  Union Bank of Taiwan (2838)  in Taipei. “There might
be some month-end export deals coming in but the economic
outlook is very bad.”  Taiwan’s dollar slipped 0.1 percent to NT$30.007 against
its U.S. counterpart in Taipei, according to Taipei Forex Inc.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
traders use to price options, rose 13 basis points to 3.43
percent.  The benchmark  stock index  declined for a third day, the
longest losing streak in a month. Taiwan cut its growth forecast
for the year to 1.66 percent from an earlier estimate of 2.08
percent this month after the economy shrank more than the
government initially estimated in the second quarter.  The yield on Taiwan’s 2 percent bonds due July 2017 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.89 percent,
according to Gretai Securities Market. The overnight  money-
market  rate was little changed at 0.387 percent, according to a
weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  