-- Alanis Morissette Mocks Starlets, Frank Ocean Gets Erotic
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-08-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/alanis-morissette-mocks-starlets-frank-ocean-gets-erotic.html
Alanis Morissette has calmed down
with marriage, motherhood and middle age.  Her mellow new  album  is called “Havoc and Bright Lights,”
though “Harmony and Candlelit Dinners” would be more
appropriate. This soundtrack to middle-class cocooning has no
edges to grate the airwaves.  The anger of her breakthrough “Jagged Little Pill” in 1995
included the woman scorned on “You Oughta Know.” She then lapsed
into hell-hath-no-fury threats at her replacement: “an older
version of me” and “I’m sure she’d make a really excellent
mother.” Now, that person is her.  She’s also moved on from the sob stories on her last
release, “Flavors of Entanglement” (in 2008) provoked by a break
with a previous fiance. She perks up with a happier opener,
“Guardian,” which praises maternal instincts. “Receive”
discusses the joys of giving and taking in a relationship.  Morissette at last shows she’s not totally crazy, a popular
misconception sparked by activities such as the all-nude video
to “Thank U.” That accusation of eccentricity is lobbed at many
female rock singers who show a little individualism -- Tori Amos, Bjork and Regina Spektor, to name just three others.  Only now and again does Morissette break out of the
domestic-bliss box to raise her voice and tempo. “Woman Down”
attacks sexism. “Celebrity” skewers starlets with their fake
tans and emotions. It’s a pity there isn’t more of this fire.  Guy Sigsworth’s slick production is relentlessly
professional and as lively as cuddling up on the sofa with a box
of chocs. Rating: **.  Morissette could take some lessons in passion from the U.K.
band  Noisettes , whose lively CD “Contact” is also out this week.  Lead singer  Shingai Shoniwa  gets worked up on songs such as
the catchy “That Girl.”  (I happened to sit next to her on a flight to the U.S. once
and her animated enthusiasm about just about everything was
refreshing. This joy for life shines right through on the
record.)  The Noisettes’ pop is spiced with retro soul and will
surely yield a big hit Stateside sooner or later. Rating: ***.  Frank Ocean  established himself as one of rock’s hottest
new acts with the mixtape “Nostalgia, Ultra” -- surely one of
the best rock listening experiences of last year.  It takes a few weeks to fully digest the New Orleans
singer’s latest, “Channel Orange.” His warm baritone is coupled
with immense ambition on the 10-minute “Pyramids.” Ocean recalls
the bravura and eroticism of the early Prince. Rating: ****.  Lettie , a U.K. singer-songwriter, is another one to watch.
Her “Good Fortune, Bad Weather” is a strong collection of
electro-pop, ranging from the bouncy “Lucky” to the gentle
“Bitter.” Rating: ***.  New Yorker  Mike Tyler  is wheeling out gigs for his likeable
new record.  He played a show at the small  London  arts center the  Horse
Hospital  last week, backed by his talented producer  Bl’eve , in
front of maybe 20 people. I have a feeling it will be to a
larger crowd when he’s back next.  His new  CD  is called “Erection.” It’s worth forgiving this
gratuitous double entendre. His quirky collection has tales of
solitude (“Man Alone,” “Lonely Tonight”) and love (“Linda”).
There’s something of  Lou Reed ’s deadpan style and the flippancy
of Jonathan Richman. Rating: ****.  Morissette is on Collective Sounds, Frank Ocean on Def Jam
and Tyler on Ais Records. The Noisettes CD release on Ais in the
U.K. is on import until Sept. 4 in the U.S. The Lettie disc is
also on import from Outer World Records.  Download fees vary across services. The albums are priced
from about $12 in the U.S. and 9 pounds in the U.K.  Information:  http://www.alanis.com ,  http://frankocean.com ,
 http://www.noisettes.co.uk ,  http://www.lettiemusic.com  and
 http://erectionerection.com .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Richard
Vines  on U.K. restaurants,  Ryan Sutton  on U.S. restaurants and
 Hephzibah Anderson  on fiction.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 