-- Allstate Suit Says Brain-Injured Washed Cars as Therapy
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-28T14:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/allstate-suit-says-brain-injured-washed-cars-as-therapy.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the second-largest
U.S. auto insurer, is seeking fraud damages in a lawsuit
alleging that a Florida brain-injury facility warehoused
patients who were beaten and abused by staff.  The suit, filed Friday in U.S. District Court in Tampa,
seeks $7.6 million that the insurer says it paid the  Florida
Institute for Neurologic Rehabilitation  to treat its claimants,
as well as triple damages under federal racketeering laws and
other costs.  Allstate alleges patients from  Michigan , which mandates
unlimited lifetime medical benefits for automobile injury
coverage, were recruited to the Florida facility through an
aggressive marketing campaign that promised an array of services
that were never provided.  Some patients washed the cars of the center’s employees, an
activity that was considered vocational training, according to
the lawsuit.  Wayne J. Miller, an attorney representing the facility,
known as FINR, said in an e-mail that he was “confident that
this matter will ultimately be resolved in FINR’s favor.”  The lawsuit, which also named FINR owner Joseph Brennick as
a defendant, follows a Bloomberg News report last month on
dozens of cases of alleged abuse at the facility. Patients’
families or state agencies have accused FINR of abuse or care
lapses in at least five residents’ deaths since 1998, two of
them in the last two years. Three former employees face criminal
charges of abusing FINR patients -- one of whom was allegedly
hit repeatedly for two hours in a TV room last September.  Removals Ordered  Last week, the Florida Agency for Health Care
Administration said FINR was treating people without brain
injuries -- in breach of its license -- and ordered the company
to move dozens of patients to other facilities.  Allstate said it began investigating the treatment of its
insured patients at FINR in 2011. Its review included
interviewing patients, hiring experts to study medical records
and ordering exams with a neuropsychologist. The lawsuit covers
the cases of a dozen patients -- identified only by initials in
the legal filing -- whose care was paid for by the Northbrook,
Illinois-based insurance company.  In some cases, patients were kept too long at the facility
or shouldn’t have been there in the first place, the lawsuit
alleges.  Jail Preferred  Two patients described the facility, one of the largest of
its kind in the country, as “a prison” and added that they
would have rather been in jail because there they would know
when they were getting out, according to the lawsuit.  The lawsuit says FINR tried to block patients from leaving
the center through a combination of threats and incentives. One
patient was promised her own apartment and a trip to the Busch
Gardens amusement park if she stayed. A FINR representative told
her that if she left, Allstate would stop paying her claims.  Allstate said it interviewed several former patients, most
of whom complained of abuse at the facility. One patient,
identified by the initials A.A., said three staff members held
him down, beat him until he was unconscious and dragged him
across a room. He suffered severe bruising, scars, and a rug
burn from the incident, the lawsuit charges.  Another patient claimed staffers threatened to “throw him
to the alligators” that lived in ponds on the 900-acre campus
in Wauchula, about 50 miles southeast of Tampa.  The lawsuit alleges patients were largely confined to their
living quarters and that rehabilitative services were limited
and of poor quality. Vocational training included picking weeds
in a greenhouse as well as the car washing, the lawsuit claims.  Other patients did not get physical, occupational or speech
therapies that were promised, the lawsuit alleges.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Florida Institute for
Neurologic Rehabilitation Inc. and Joseph Brennick, 8:12CV01935,
U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  