-- Amazon’s Zappos Combines Pinterest and E-Commerce in New Site
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/amazon-s-zappos-combines-pinterest-and-e-commerce-in-new-site.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Zappos online
store has created a service that recommends purchases based on
what users post on Pinterest, a move to parlay the popularity of
the social-sharing site into e-commerce sales.  The new Web page, created by a team at  Zappos Labs  in San
Francisco, is called PinPointing and suggests Zappos products,
such as shoes, dresses and swimsuits, based on Pinterest posts.
Consumers can see suggestions that correlate with their own
personal pins or those of other Pinterest users.  Pinterest Inc. , based in  Palo Alto ,  California , operates a
social-networking site that lets users collect and share photos
on the Internet by pinning them to a virtual bulletin board.
Zappos is using the social site to help shoppers discover its
breadth of products through friends and celebrities and debunk
its reputation as solely a seller of shoes.  “Social shopping is a total buzzword that people throw
around, but I don’t think any big brands have cracked it,” said
Will Young, director of Zappos Labs, a group of developers in
charge of spearheading online projects to improve the Zappos
user experience. “When we talk to people and ask what they
think is the best social-shopping experience, they say
Pinterest, and it’s not even a retailer.”  Pinterest has seen a surge in user growth since it was
introduced in 2010, and had 11.7 million visitors as of January.
It raised $100 million in a financing round that valued the
company at about $1.5 billion, a person with knowledge of the
matter said in May. Investors include Max Levchin, a founder of
 EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal; Bessemer Venture Partners; and Japanese e-
commerce site Rakuten Inc.  Pinterest Approval  While Zappos got approval from Pinterest for the
PinPointing site, the companies aren’t officially teaming up,
Young said in an interview.  Zappos already lets users share what they buy through
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , Twitter Inc. and Pinterest. While consumers share
more often on Pinterest than on the other two social networks,
sales from Pinterest posts contribute the smallest amount of
revenue, Young said.  Zappos users were 13 times more likely to share a purchase
on Pinterest than on Twitter and 8 times more likely to share on
Facebook than Twitter, Young said. Even so, posts on Twitter
brought in the most revenue -- an average of $33.66 an order --
while Facebook posts garnered $2.08 per order and sales from
Pinterest were 75 cents on average, he said.  “Even if a person has 100,000 followers on Pinterest and
she pins something to a board called ‘Stuff I Love,’ that’s not
as big a deal as an endorsement tweeted to 10,000 followers,”
Young said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  