-- Hamptons Scene: Maltese Baci Greets Vegans, Kucinich
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-08-28T14:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/hamptons-scene-maltese-baci-greets-vegans-kucinich.html
About 50 guests gathered in the
Amagansett home of litigator John Bradham for a cocktail party
Saturday night to support the  Physicians Committee for
Responsible Medicine  Inc.  The informal guest of honor was Bradham’s dog, a Maltese
named Baci.  “It’s her house. She lets me live here,” said Bradham,
a partner at the New York-based firm  Mazzeo Song & Bradham LLP .  Asked why he supports the committee, which advocates for
animal-free medical research and a plant-based diet, Bradham
said he was raised to respect animals’ rights.  “My mom has her own private  animal shelter , and animals
have always come first, second and third. I’m not sure where I
fit in.”  It was a dog lab in medical school that sparked committee
founder Neal Barnard’s interest in animal-free research.  “You put the dog on the table and inject him with various
drugs and see the reactions,” Barnard said. “You speed the
heart up, you slow it down. That kills him and you bag the dog
up.”  The idea of it seemed cruel and unnecessary to his
education. “I didn’t have to see that to understand the effects
of the drugs,” Barnard said. “I went to my professor and I
said, ’I’m not going to do that,’ and then another student
agreed with me.”  Diet, Exercise  These days he is conducting pilot programs in workplaces to
improve employees’ diet and exercise. Keeping people healthy
means reducing the need for drugs and therefore, animal research
to test drugs.  “Diet can affect rheumatoid arthritis, migraines,
Alzheimer’s,” Barnard said. “We should focus on diet, not
drugs.”  Barnard admired the marshlands in Bradham’s backyard with
Elizabeth Kucinich, the committee’s director of government
affairs, who was with her husband, Representative Dennis Kucinich, the Ohio Democrat. The two married in 2005, in between
his bids for the presidential nomination.  Elizabeth Kucinich has been lobbying for the  Great Ape
Protection and Cost Savings Act , which seeks to phase out the
use of chimpanzees in invasive research.  She also urges members of Congress and their constituents
to adapt a plant-based diet.  “Diet is essential to emotional and physical strength,”
she said.  Vegan Kickstart  Just in time for the start of the Democratic National
Convention, on Sept. 3 the committee begins its next 21-Day
Vegan Kickstart program, offering daily e-mail messages and menu
plans.  “You have to take it one day at a time, just like
alcoholics in AA,” said Victoria Moran, author of “Main Street
Vegan” and other books.  And with that she tried a tart of thinly sliced cucumbers.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure dection of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater, Nina
Mehta on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 