-- An Investor's Guide to Fees and Expenses
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-08-28T14:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/an-investor-s-guide-to-fees-and-expenses.html
     About 140 years ago, a retailer named John Wanamaker
figured his customers and salesmen had better things to do
than spend hours haggling. His invention: Assigning one
price, "plainly marked," to every product.  The price tag caught on nearly everywhere with one major
exception: financial services. Investors still have a
surprisingly difficult time figuring out what they'll pay for
financial advice, for mutual funds and especially for their
retirement plans.  New regulations required administrators of 401(k)s, such
as Schwab or Aon Hewitt, to disclose detailed plan costs to
their client companies in June. By the end of
August, companies must pass that cost information on to plan
participants.  Will those employees understand the notices arriving in
the mail? "The majority will probably recycle it," says Bill
McClain, a principal for Mercer Consultants. The fine print
and legalese will deter many investors, while they also might
not understand how important costs really are. A fee that eats
up 1 percent of assets each year might not seem like much --
except that the charge bleeds assets from your account year
after year. Say you invest $10,000 and earn 5 percent per
year. That 1 percent fee will cost $1,487 after 10 years and
$4,622 after 20 years.  To help readers figure out if they're paying too
much, this guide details the typical costs of various
investment products and services. If you're paying too
much, don't sweat it -- go out and negotiate a new rate. Think
of it as an instant investment return.  Actively Managed Mutual Funds  What they cost: On average, 0.66 percent per year for
bond funds and 0.93 percent for equity funds.  Why: With actively managed funds, you are paying a fund
complex to get access to their investment professionals. The
average expense ratio is 1.43 percent per year, according to
the Investment Company Institute. Most investment dollars
favor the less expensive options. The cheapest 25 percent of
equity funds held 72 percent of assets at the end of 2011.  The priciest mutual funds are so-called "alternative"
funds, which have an average asset-weighted expense ratio of
1.33 percent, according to Morningstar. Alternative funds buy
up commodities or other assets that, in theory, will perform
differently from stock or bond markets and so provide a hedge.  Index Mutual Funds  What they cost: On average, 0.14 percent for equity funds
and 0.13 percent for bond funds.  Why: Index funds are so much cheaper because they
dispense with hiring a professional to manage the portfolios.
Instead of trying to "beat the market" with individual stock
picks -- which most managers can't do consistently anyway --
index funds invest in a set, broad range of bonds or
stocks, such as the Standard & Poor's 500 Index and the
Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index.  One extra cost for all mutual funds, both active and
index, is transaction costs. It's hard to put a number on how
much these costs hurt returns. Researchers don't agree on how
to tally transaction costs, and funds can incur different
costs based on how they're managed. Estimates range from less
than 0.2 percent to more than 2.7 percent.  Exchange-Traded Funds  What they cost: 0.49 percent (average expense ratio for
U.S. non-leveraged ETFs).  Why: The vast majority of exchange-traded funds invest
based on an index, which keeps their costs similar to those of
index mutual funds. The average ETF expense ratio is increased
by new actively managed ETFs coming on the market, as well as
specialty ETFs such as commodity funds. They can have expense
ratios of 1.5 percent. Because they trade on an exchange all
day, unlike mutual funds, whose net asset value is calculated
at the end of the trading day, one additional cost of ETFs can
come from trading activity. Investors must trade carefully to
get fair prices, especially in lightly traded, less liquid
ETFs.  Hedge Funds  What they cost: A 1.5 percent annual management
fee, along with 20 percent of any investment gains.  Why: The conventional wisdom is that hedge funds charge
"two and 20" -- 2 percent of all assets and 20 percent of any
gains -- but a 2011 University of Oxford study found that
investors were more often paying 1.5 percent. The study also
found that hedge fund companies with good track records tended
to launch funds with higher management fees. Those high-fee
funds, however, didn't perform any better in the long run.  401(k) Plans  What they cost: Administrative fees can range from 0.13
percent to 1 percent or more, with additional costs for fund
expense ratios and other investment management services.  Why: The biggest factor is the size of the employer
sponsoring the plan. Employees are charged for two different
services: first, the costs of running the plan --
administrative expenses, paperwork, marketing, mailings -- and
second, the costs of managing their investments, whether
they're in mutual funds or elsewhere. Both are much higher at
small firms, which have less bargaining power and fewer
participants to cover fixed costs. According to
BrightScope, the average plan has a total cost of 0.87 percent
per year, and all but 0.13 points of that covers managing
investments. Plans with just $1 million in assets have a total
cost of 2.01 percent, with 0.82 points covering administration
and other fees. A Government Accountability Office (GAO) study
found one insurer charging 2 percent just for administrative
expenses.  New regulations should make it clearer who is paying
what. While employees are usually responsible for investment
fees, their employers sometimes cover administration fees.
Smaller plans are likelier to do this than large
plans, according to an April GAO survey.  Administrative costs aren't always spread evenly among
employees. That's because, as McClain points out, investors
who choose low-fee index funds often avoid "revenue-sharing"
fees. Those charges are included in pricier funds' expense
ratios but actually help cover the retirement plan's
administrative costs.  Financial Advisers  What they cost: 0.5 percent to 0.95 percent, according to
Cerulli Associates.  Why: Financial service providers go by many names --
fee-only planners, financial advisers, wealth managers, family
offices, private client groups, banks trusts. The basic
business model is the same: Provide investment and other
financial advice, usually for an annual charge based on the
size of assets being managed. The wealthier you are, the less
you tend to spend for advice, at least as a percentage of your
fortune. Those with less than $250,000 in assets paid 0.95
percent on average, according to Cerulli Associates, while
those with more than $50 million paid just 0.29 percent.  Brokerage Charges  What they cost: flat service charges of $5 to $10, up to
5 percent front-end sales loads.  Why: When you buy stocks or funds directly from a
brokerage, your costs can vary widely. Discount brokerages
often charge a flat fee for each transaction. For
example, Charles Schwab charges a $9 commission for each
online stock or ETF purchase and an extra $25 if you get help
from a broker. Other traditional brokers may charge much
more, with commissions to pay the broker built into fees or
expense ratios of the products they sell. For example, a
mutual fund company may charge a fund buyer a one-time "sales
load" or a recurring "12b-1" fee, both of which are used to
compensate the seller of the fund. According to FINRA, a
typical sales load on a share purchase of less than $25,000 is
5 percent, while purchases of $1 million or more usually avoid
such charges entirely. Such load funds are
rapidly losing popularity to no-load varieties.  Real Estate Investments  What they cost: 6 percent to 7 percent in total
transaction costs.  Why: Add up all the costs of buying a piece of real
estate -- brokers, attorneys, paperwork -- and the total can
reach 6 percent to 7 percent of the property's value. Of
course, almost everything is negotiable, including broker
fees. Also, rather than buy real estate themselves, investors
can buy funds that buy real estate. Mutual funds that
specialize in real estate investment trusts (REITs) have
expense ratios that vary from less than 0.5 percent for index
funds to more than 2 percent for the priciest actively managed
options. The median real estate fund costs 1.15 percent.
However, beware of private, non-traded REITs, which often
contain extra fees for individual investors.
 