-- Anti-Assad Figure Resigns Citing Syria Opposition Discord
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-08-28T20:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/anti-assad-figure-resigns-citing-syria-opposition-discord.html
Bassma Kodmani, a prominent voice of
the Syrian National Council, resigned from the main political
opposition body to President Bashar al-Assad, citing
disappointment in the group’s failure to work together more than
17 months after the uprising began.  “I decided to leave the council because of a difference of
views over how to move forward and because thought I could be
more productive working on the outside,” Kodmani, a Paris-based
academic turned revolutionary, said today in a telephone
interview.  Without going into details, the former chief spokeswoman
for the SNC said that in “general terms, I’ve been disappointed
with how the council has worked on several levels.” She said
she will work with other groups, mainly in humanitarian relief.  Kodmani said her resignation was unrelated to  France ’s
signal yesterday that it was prepared to confer legitimacy on
the SNC, a political umbrella for anti-government factions that
includes the Muslim Brotherhood.  French President  Francois Hollande , who came to power in
May as the  Syria  conflict raged, called for the opposition to
form a provisional government, echoing similar overtures made by
his predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy  on  Libya  last year.  United Nations  efforts to end the 17-month conflict have
faltered. Military monitors left the country last week, and the
organization’s envoy,  Kofi Annan , this month resigned and
accused world powers of “finger-pointing and name-calling.”  Death Toll  The pullback has been accompanied by a surge in fighting,
with battles engulfing areas of the country’s two biggest
cities, Damascus and Aleppo.  At least 41 people were killed across Syria today, 18 of
them in Idlib, and seven in the suburbs of Damascus, the Local
Coordination Committees in Syria said in an e-mail. The day
after the UN monitors left, Aug. 25, was the bloodiest since the
uprising began, with 440 people reported dead by the LCC, an
activist group. The death tolls couldn’t be verified.  The Syrian uprising, which began as a peaceful protest
movement in March 2011, has defied regional and international
efforts to resolve it. More than 23,000 lives have been lost
during the unrest, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights estimates.  -- Editors: Terry Atlas, Larry Liebert  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  