-- Maoist Hideout Threatens $3 Billion Steel Plant: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-08-29T04:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/maoist-hideout-threatens-3-billion-steel-plant-corporate-india.html
Attacks by Maoist rebels in  India 
are preventing the nation’s second-largest maker of steel from
mining an iron-ore reserve it says is vital to feed a planned $3
billion expansion of its biggest plant.  The Rowghat mine in the central state of Chhattisgarh is
crucial for  Steel Authority of India Ltd. ’s adjacent Bhilai
plant, which will run out of ore in about five years, Chairman
C.S. Verma said. The company has failed to remove forest cover
to mine the 2,030 hectares (5,016 acres) of deposit because of
“violent reprisals” from Maoist rebels who, according to
 Jitendra Singh , junior minister for home affairs, use the area
as their hideout.  “It’s hard to imagine running the plant without this
mine,” Verma said in an interview. “We’re doing everything
possible to increase security to start work. Rowghat will be the
lifeline for Bhilai.”  Steel Authority’s challenge will be to secure an alternate
supply of  iron ore  should it fail to start Rowghat in time for
the expanded production at Bhilai. Rowghat is one of several
industrial projects that have been stymied by the Maoists, who
run a parallel regime in some of India’s richest mining regions,
as lack of jobs and poverty draws locals to their ranks.  “The clock is ticking,” said Giriraj Daga, an analyst at
Nirmal Bang Equities Pvt. in Mumbai. “Steel Authority’s
earnings will be at stake if Rowghat is not ready in time.”  Rowghat will produce 12 million tons of ore a year, making
it  the company’s biggest mine , according to Steel Authority’s
website.  Steel Authority  shares  fell 2.4 percent to 80.85 rupees at
9:45 a.m. in Mumbai, the lowest level in eight months. The stock
has fallen 1 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent gain
in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   Campaign of Violence  The Maoist guerrillas are active in a dozen of India’s 28
states, many of which are rich in iron ore, coal, bauxite,
manganese and other minerals. The rebels have pressed a campaign
of violence against the government, police and landowners since
a peasant uprising in the eastern state of West Bengal in 1967.
They have been accused of raising funds through extortion.  Maoist rebels killed 15 members of India’s security forces
in two attacks in June last year in Chhattisgarh. In April the
previous year, the rebels killed 76 policemen in the same
Dantewada district, the deadliest attack on security forces in
the decades-long conflict.  Bhilai accounts for 36 percent of Steel Authority’s 13.4
million metric ton capacity and about  35 percent of its profit ,
according to the company’s website. The plant, which started
production in 1961, makes rails, steel plates as well as rods.  New Delhi-based Steel Authority is investing 172.7 billion
rupees ($3 billion) to expand Bhilai, part of a $13 billion plan
to increase capacity 60 percent, improve products and develop
mines. The company spent 403.2 billion rupees as of March 31 on
the expansion, which has been delayed by at least two years.  Own Ore  Steel Authority’s profitability emanates from its own
source of iron ore for its entire requirement. The company
imports almost 70 percent of its coking coal, which makes it the
second-biggest spender on raw material among the three biggest
steelmakers in the country.  “The company’s profits have already borne the brunt of the
increase in coking coal prices,” said  Niraj Shah , an analyst at
Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. in Mumbai. “The absence of
iron ore mines can further dent margins, especially because its
conversion cost is fairly high.”  Steel Authority’s cost of turning iron ore into a ton of
steel was 16,464 rupees in the year ended March 31, more than
double that of  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) ’s 8,105 rupees, according to Shah.
 Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , the country’s largest producer of the alloy,
incurred 21,703 rupees.  Falling Profit  Steel Authority’s  profit fell  in eight of the past nine
quarters on higher import costs of coking coal and currency
losses on overseas loans taken to buy fuel and plant equipment.  India could lose $80 billion of investment in developing
mineral deposits should the government fail to stop rebel
violence, London-based investment banking and securities firm
 Execution Noble Ltd.  has said.  Inventories piled up at  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , which runs the biggest
iron ore deposit in Chhattisgarh, after Maoists in 2009 blew up
an underground pipeline that transported iron ore to Essar Steel
Ltd.’s pellet plant in the adjoining state of  Andhra Pradesh .
The repaired pipeline was damaged again last year.  State-run  National Aluminium Co. (NACL) ’s expansion of its alumina
refinery suffered delays, after Maoists invaded the company’s
bauxite mines in 2009 and captured workers to grab explosives
used in mining. The incident spread fear among workers, who
would not turn up for work until the police declared the area
safe almost after two weeks, C.R. Pradhan, then chairman of the
company, said yesterday in a phone interview.  ‘Fear of Life’  “Even after the area was declared safe, mine workers
stopped work after sunset,” Pradhan said. “Almost 5,000
construction workers at the refinery site fled to their native
places fearing for their lives.”  Such threats have often deprived Indian companies of the
resources the land holds. Local steelmakers have started
importing iron ore, despite the country’s capacity to produce
almost twice its requirements.  Spot  prices of iron ore  with 62 percent metal content at
 China ’s Tianjin port have declined 32 percent this year to $94.8
a ton a yesterday, the lowest level in almost 34 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Imports of iron ore will increase in times to come,”
said Shah of Fortune Equity Brokers. “It’s the most plausible
solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  