-- Apple, Oxford University Press: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-28T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/apple-oxford-university-press-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which won more than $1
billion after a jury found Samsung Electronics Co. infringed six
of seven patents for its mobile devices Aug. 24, sought a ban on
eight models of the South Korean company’s smartphones,
including its Galaxy S devices.  Apple, in a court filing, urged U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, who presided over the four-week trial in San Jose,
California, to ban the sales of the Galaxy S 4G, S2 AT&T, S2
Skyrocket, S2 T-Mobile, S2 Epic 4G, S Showcase, the Droid Charge
and the Prevail.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung may have to delay the
release of new devices to change their designs, as it seeks to
compete with Apple’s new iPhone and possibly a smaller iPad,
said Chang In Whan, president of Seoul-based KTB Asset
Management Co.  In June Cupertino, California-based Apple won a ban on U.S.
sales of Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet that the South Korean
company said wouldn’t have a significant impact on its business.
Samsung sought on Aug. 26 to have the ban lifted after the jury
found the company’s tablet computer didn’t infringe the Apple
design patent on which the June 26 court-ordered sales ban was
based. The jury instead found that the Galaxy Tab 10.1 infringed
three of Apple’s software patents.  Adam Yates , a spokesman for Samsung, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail request for comment.  The injunction will probably be more important than the
monetary damages award,  Mark Lemley , a Stanford Law School
professor, said in an e-mail following the verdict.  “The real question is whether this is enough to derail the
momentum the Android ecosystem has gained in the marketplace,”
Lemley said.  Samsung has used  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android free operating
system to build phones that propelled it to the number one spot
in the phone market.  The nine-member jury rejected Samsung’s patent
counterclaims against Apple, the world’s largest company by
market capitalization, and its request for damages. The jury
also determined that all of Apple’s patents at stake in the
trial were valid. Apple also won findings that Samsung devices
diluted the value of its so-called trade dress, or how a product
looks.  Samsung said in an e-mailed statement it will ask the judge
to reverse the verdict. If Koh doesn’t overturn the award,
Samsung said it will appeal.  The verdict is the largest jury award of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The verdict is the
fourth-largest jury award in a patent case in U.S. history.  The case is Apple Inc. v.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  Google Says Most Claims in Samsung Case Not Tied to Android  Google Inc., responding to a jury verdict that found its
partner Samsung Electronics Co. infringed Apple Inc. patents,
said most of the claims “don’t relate to the core Android”
software used in mobile devices.  “The court of appeals will review both infringement and
the validity of the patent claims,”  Mountain View , California-
based Google said Aug. 29 in an e-mail statement. “Most of
these don’t relate to the core Android operating system, and
several are being re-examined by the U.S. Patent Office.”  Google, owner of the world’s largest Web search engine,
lets mobile-phone manufacturers weave its Android operating
system into their handsets at no charge. It suffered a setback
on Aug. 24, when a California jury said Samsung, the biggest
user of Android, infringed Apple patents.  “This verdict is a major victory for Apple vis a vis the
Android ecosystem,” said  Toni Sacconaghi , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co., in a research report yesterday. “That said,
we don’t think it is a game-changing loss for Android.”  The ruling is “likely to embolden Apple’s legal
strategy,” Sacconaghi said. Litigation playing out in several
countries may ultimately lead to Android phone makers paying
royalties to Apple of $3 to $25 per handset or “forced work-
arounds on violated patents, some of which could modestly change
the look and feel of competing products.”  Android’s share among smartphone platforms rose to 64
percent in the second quarter from 43 percent in the same period
a year earlier, according to Stamford, Connecticut-based
researcher Gartner Inc. Apple’s software had a 19 percent share,
up less than a percent from the previous year.  “The mobile industry is moving fast and all players --
including newcomers -- are building upon ideas that have been
around for decades,” Google said in the statement. “We work
with our partners to give consumers innovative and affordable
products, and we don’t want anything to limit that.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Dell Claims Florida Audio Company Infringes ‘Alienware’ Marks  Dell Inc. (DELL)  sued a Florida seller of electronic audio
equipment for trademark infringement.  According to the complaint filed Aug. 23 in federal court
in Miami, Dell accused Alien Head Gear LLC of infringing its
“Alienware” trademarks. Dell, based in Round Rock, Texas,
acquired the marks as part of its acquisition of the Alienware
company in 2006, according to court papers.  Dell said it became aware of the alleged infringement at
the 2012 Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, a trade event
at which Alienware products have been exhibited. The computer
company said that in addition to the Alien Head Gear company
name, it also objects to the alienheadgear.com Internet domain
name and the telephone number containing the word “Alien” that
the Coconut Creek, Florida, company uses.  Alien Head Gear has received repeated complaints from Dell
and persists in its alleged infringement, Dell said in court
papers. The Florida company has ‘simply ignored” the demands,
according to Dell.  It asked the court to bar further infringement, for awards
of money damages and profits derived from the alleged
infringement, and for attorney fees and litigation costs. Dell
also asked for orders to seize and destroy all allegedly
infringing products and promotional materials.  Alien Head Gear didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail
request for comment.  The case is Dell Inc., v. Alien Head Gear LLC, 1:12-cv-
23084-JLK, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  China World Leader in Trademark Applications, Government Says  China leads the world in trademark applications, with a
total of 10.54 million,  China Daily   reported .  Speaking at a forum celebrating the 20th anniversary of
China’s trademark law, Zhou Bohua, who heads China’s State
Administration for Industry and Commerce, said that while
trademarks are important for Chinese companies operating
overseas, within the country there are only a limited number
influential trademarks, the newspaper reported.  At this same forum, the government also said that the
country leads the world in numbers of registered trademarks,
with 7.17 million by the end of June, according to China Daily.  China has led the world in trademark applications each year
since 2002, the newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Ivi TV Loses Bid to Overturn Court-Ordered Business Shutdown  Ivi Inc.  lost its bid to overturn a court-ordered shutdown
of its business of capturing over-the-air television signals and
transmitting them to online subscribers.  A lower-court judge was correct in granting TV broadcasters
such as  CBS Corp. (CBS)  a preliminary order last year that put Ivi out
of business, a panel of federal appeals court judges ruled
yesterday in New York.  “The district court did not abuse its discretion in
finding that plaintiffs were likely to succeed on the merits of
the case,” the judges said.  TV, film and sports companies including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
ABC,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox, sued Seattle-
based Ivi and its founder, Todd Weaver, in September 2010. The
broadcasters said capturing TV signals in cities including New
York and  Los Angeles  and retransmitting them to Ivi’s
subscribers was copyright infringement.  U.S. District Judge Naomi Buchwald granted the preliminary
injunction in February 2011. She said the TV companies showed
they probably will win the suit. Oral arguments in the appeal
were heard in May.  The appeal is WPIX v Ivi, 11-0788,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan). The lower-court case is WPIX
v. Ivi, 1:10-cv-07415, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Oxford University Press, Others Must Pay Attorney Fees  Following its May order clearing Georgia State University
of most copyright infringement claims brought by academic
publishers, a federal court in Atlanta has awarded attorney fees
to the school as the prevailing party in the dispute.  In its Aug. 10 order, the court said it had examined the
claims by the group of publishers that included Oxford
University Press, Cambridge University Press and Sage
Publications Inc., and  said that the school was “highly
successful” in defeating most of the publishers’ infringement
claims. The school prevailed in all but five of the 99
infringement claims the publishers made at the beginning of the
case.  The claims were related to professors’ making works
available electronically to students. The university claimed
fair use, which under copyright law means that small excerpts
can be used for purposes such as teaching or journalism without
violation. Georgia State changed its policy in 2009 to insure
that professors adhered to fair use guidelines.  The case is Cambridge University Press v. Becker, 08-01425,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  QBPC Warns Members About Risk of China-Mandated Software  Quality Brands Protection Committee , an organization whose
members include  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Apple Inc. and  Sony Corp. (6758) , has
warned that an Internet monitoring program required for
companies operating in China may put them at risk of industrial
espionage,  CNN   reported .  Beijing-based QBPC sent out an e-mailed alert to its
members, saying that at least three companies operating in
Beijing, Heibei and Shandong were required to buy Internet
security software from police-designated suppliers in order to
maintain  Internet access , according to CNN.  The organization, which aims to protect its members’
 intellectual property  rights in China, declined to tell CNN
which of its members had been approached.  Thomas Parenty, an information security specialist
consulted by CNN, said that this software program is “a Trojan
horse that fits in a computer rack” and it’s “essentially game
over” for IP rights for companies forced to install the
software.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 