-- Harrisburg Council Must Hike Tax, Pennsylvania Judge Says
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-08-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/harrisburg-council-must-hike-tax-pennsylvania-judge-says.html
Harrisburg’s City Council must
double an income-tax rate on residents to help pay for essential
services in  Pennsylvania ’s capital, a state judge ruled.  The tax would climb to 2 percent from 1 percent for a year
under the ruling yesterday by Commonwealth Court Judge Bonnie Leadbetter. The move was sought by William B. Lynch, the state
receiver trying to fix a financial crisis in the insolvent city
of almost 49,700.  “The judge made the wrong decision,” said Councilman Brad Koplinski, who said the council would consider an appeal. “This
is unfair to the people of Harrisburg.”  The city, where 30 percent of residents live in poverty,
owes more than $300 million on debt tied to an overhaul and
expansion of a trash-to-energy plant that doesn’t produce enough
revenue to cover the obligations. Besides boosting the tax,
which would yield about $5.1 million in 2013, Lynch’s plan calls
for the sale of municipal assets, including the incinerator.  “We’re in dire straits here,” said Cory Angell, a
spokesman for Lynch. “We need that funding source to help the
city provide basic services.”  City creditors aren’t bending to do their part, according
to  Dan Miller , the city’s controller.  “This is us giving a concession when no one else is,”
Miller said of the ruling.  Currently, Harrisburg residents pay 0.5 percent on earned
income to the city, while an equal amount is  collected  by the
local school district. The entire 1 percentage point increase
will go to city coffers.  The receiver case is C. Alan Walker v. Harrisburg Authority,
569-MD-2011, Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court, Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mary Romano at 
 mromano6@bloomberg.net  