-- Art Heyman, Ex-Knick Who Led Duke’s Emergence, Dies at Age 71
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-08-28T16:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/art-heyman-ex-knick-who-led-duke-s-emergence-dies-at-age-71.html
Art Heyman, whose recruitment by
 Duke University  from a  Long Island , New York, high school helped
spark one of college basketball’s fiercest rivalries, has died.
He was 71.  Heyman’s death was confirmed by the athletic department of
the Durham, North Carolina-based university in a statement. It
said he died yesterday in  Florida  and gave no details.  Heyman was a three-time All-America selection at Duke and
the national college basketball Player of the Year in 1963. The
school’s career scoring average leader, he helped the Blue
Devils to the Final Four of the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament for the first time in his senior season,
and was the No. 1 pick in the National Basketball Association
draft by the  New York Knicks .  “As much as any other human being, Art was responsible for
Duke University becoming a national power in college
basketball,” Vic Bubas, the coach who brought Heyman to Duke
from Oceanside High School in Oceanside, New York, said in the
statement. “I always told him that he was a true pioneer in
modern Duke basketball. His records and stats speak for
themselves, but I don’t know that any words can do justice to
the role that he played in the history of our teams in that
era.”  University of North Carolina coach Frank McGuire had
created a flow of talent from New York to the school in  Chapel
Hill , and Heyman’s recruitment by Bubas was the first leak in
that pipeline.  It helped develop a bitter basketball rivalry between the
schools, located in neighboring cities just west of Raleigh,
with a fight on court between Heyman and Tar Heels guard  Larry Brown  sparking a melee that included players and fans.  Duke Championships  Duke never earned an NCAA title with Bubas and Heyman, but
has won four under current coach  Mike Krzyzewski , who this month
led the U.S. Olympic team to its second consecutive gold medal.  Heyman averaged 25.1 points a game, a Blue Devils record,
and 10.9 rebounds, fourth in school history. He was a member of
the NBA’s All-Rookie team in 1964 and won an American Basketball
Association championship with the Pittsburgh Pipers in 1968. He
retired in 1970 after an eight-year pro career.  The statement from Duke contained no mention of survivors
or services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  