-- Treasuries Gain While S&P 500 Retreats Before Bernanke
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-08-28T21:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/asian-stocks-decline-as-dollar-strengthens-before-u-s-data.html
Treasuries rose, sending 10-year
yields to a three-week low, while U.S. stocks retreated as
 consumer confidence  slid and investors awaited Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s speech on the economy in three days.  Ten-year Treasury note yields lost two basis points to 1.63
percent and dropped as low as 1.61 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to 1,409.30, while the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index declined 0.7 percent. Copper, zinc and nickel
fell at least 0.4 percent. Oil advanced while gasoline retreated
after yesterday’s rally as Hurricane Isaac approached the U.S.
Gulf Coast. Spanish and Italian 10-year yields climbed at least
nine basis points.  American consumer confidence fell by the most in 10 months
as households grew more pessimistic, a Conference Board report
showed, while a reduced economic assessment from  Japan 
highlighted risks of a further global slowdown. U.S. gross
domestic product data tomorrow may show faster growth in the
second quarter before Bernanke’s speech on Aug. 31 at an annual
meeting of central bankers in  Wyoming .  “This week is truly the calm before the storm,” Tim Hoyle, director of research at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
Haverford Trust Co., which manages $6 billion, said in a phone
interview. “The market could be easily disappointed. It’s hard
to tell how much the market’s move is based on the belief that
Bernanke is going to come out with a huge announcement.”  Thirty-year U.S. bonds also increased today, sending  yields
down  one basis point to 2.75 percent. Treasuries have fallen 0.6
percent in August, trimming a loss of as much as 1.6 percent
earlier in the month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data showed.  Treasury Auction  Treasuries remained higher after a U.S. auction of $35
billion in two-year notes attracted stronger-than-average
demand. The notes drew a yield of 0.273 percent, compared with
0.275 percent in pre-auction trading. The bid-to-cover ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.94, versus an average of 3.75 at the
past 10 sales.  The  S&P 500  last week climbed to its  highest level  on an
intraday basis in more than four years, then failed to close at
that milestone. The index has fluctuated near the 1,400 level
for three weeks as trading slowed toward the end of the U.S.
summer and investors awaited the  Jackson Hole  gathering to gauge
prospects for a possible third round of so-called quantitative
easing through asset purchases.  Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was less than
4.5 billion shares yesterday, the lowest level since at least
2008 excluding days surrounding holidays, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Almost 4.7 billion shares traded hands today, 29
percent below the average for the year.  Stock Leaders  Gauges of raw-material, telephone, utility and industrial
companies were the worst performers of the 10 main industry
groups in the S&P 500 today, losing at least 0.2 percent, while
energy and consumer stocks had the only gains.  Lexmark International Inc. surged 14 percent after the
printer maker said it plans to cut 1,700 jobs and shut a factory
in the  Philippines  as it explores a sale of its inkjet
technology. H.J. Heinz Co. rose 1.7 percent after reporting
preliminary profit that topped estimates. KLA-Tencor Corp., a
maker of machinery used in the production of semiconductors,
slumped 2.5 percent after Deutsche Bank AG cut its rating.  European  stocks  extended declines earlier after Catalonia
said it will request 5 billion euros ($6.3 billion) from  Spain ’s
financing facility for regional governments. The nation’s
benchmark  IBEX 35 (IBEX)  index dropped 0.9 percent. The region’s
equities pared losses as European Union President  Herman Van
Rompuy  said  Greece ’s future is in the euro and the region’s
rescue fund is ready for rapid action to aid Spanish banks.  European Markets  All 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600 retreated. G4S Plc
dropped almost 2 percent after the security company said that
first-half profit slumped 73 percent. Deutsche Lufthansa AG lost
0.8 percent after the airline failed to appease an employee
union protesting against wage cuts. Vestas Wind Systems A/S
surged 19 percent after saying it has started talks with
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. over possible cooperation.  In European bond markets, Spanish 10-year yields increased
nine basis points to 6.48 percent and Italian 10-year rates
added 12 basis points to 5.83 percent amid concern the  European
Central Bank  won’t be able to do enough to stem the region’s
turmoil as they prepare to meet next week.  Spanish Auction  The yield on Spain’s two-year note fell eight basis points
to 3.67 percent as the government sold 3.6 billion euros of
bills, surpassing the 3.5 billion-euro maximum target.  Germany ’s
10-year yield lost one basis point to 1.34 percent. The euro
strengthened against 15 of 16 major peers, climbing 0.6 percent
to $1.2570, near the highest level since the first week of July.  Fixed-income assets worldwide returned less than 0.1
percent in August, according to a Bank of America Corp. index.
Global bonds reversed losses from earlier in August, when they
were on course for the worst performance since November 2010,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad
Market Index.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  canceled his trip to the annual
Jackson Hole symposium this week, citing other engagements.  Oil rose 0.9 percent to $96.33 a barrel, gaining for the
first time in four days in  New York  as Isaac reduced offshore
output in the  Gulf of Mexico  and on speculation that U.S.
supplies fell to a five-month low. About 93 percent of oil
production from the Gulf of Mexico has been shut as Hurricane
Isaac approaches, according to the Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement.  Gasoline Retreats  Gasoline futures for September delivery slipped from a
nearly four-month high, dropping 0.9 percent to $3.1261 a
gallon, on speculation that the impact from Isaac on Gulf Coast
refining will be short lived. The contract rallied 2.5 percent
yesterday.  The hurricane and a deadly blast at  Venezuela ’s Amuay
refinery threatened to revive a debate about energy costs in the
run-up to the presidential election in November.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of stocks in developing
nations declined 0.4 percent, declining for a third day. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies declined
0.2 percent and  Taiwan ’s Taiex index slid 1.4 percent. Russia’s
Micex Index added 0.2 percent and  India ’s Sensex fell 0.3
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  