-- Assange Asylum Wins Correa Anti-U.S. Cachet as Trade to Suffer
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-08-28T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/assange-asylum-wins-correa-anti-u-s-cachet-as-trade-to-suffer.html
Ecuador President Rafael Correa is
emerging from the shadow of Venezuelan mentor  Hugo Chavez  as his
decision to grant asylum to WikiLeaks’ founder Julian Assange
plunges relations with the U.S. to new lows.  While such a tactic may boost his chances of re-election in
February, the political gain may spell economic loss for
Ecuador, as harboring Assange sparks reprisals from the South
American nation’s top trade partner, said Cynthia Arnson, Latin
America program director at the Woodrow Wilson International
Center for Scholars.  Ecuador’s economy, about the size of Nebraska’s, benefitted
from $1.7 billion in duty-free exports to the U.S. last year
under the Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act.
Protecting Assange, who published classified U.S. military
cables over the internet, is the latest in a series of conflicts
with the U.S., including ties with  Iran , which top U.S.
lawmakers say justify re-imposing tariffs when the trade
preferences expire in July.  “This latest move completely undermines the relationship
with the U.S. and virtually guarantees that Ecuador will be
removed from the Andean trade preference benefits,” Arnson said
in a phone interview from  Washington .  A State Department official in Washington, who declined to
be named, citing agency policy, said the U.S. relationship with
the upper levels of Ecuador’s government is very difficult. The
renewal of the trade deal is a Congressional decision, he said.  Antagonizing the U.S.  Assange, 41, took refuge in Ecuador’s embassy in  London  on
June 19 to avert extradition to  Sweden , where he faces
questioning on allegations of rape and sexual molestation.  Correa, in an April interview with the Australian hacker-
activist by video link, welcomed Assange to the “club of the
persecuted,” in a nod to the global criticism both have faced.
Correa expelled the U.S. ambassador to Quito, Heather Hodges,
last year in protest over allegations she made in a classified
diplomatic cable released by WikiLeaks that Correa had knowingly
appointed a corrupt police chief. He is the only head of state
to have expelled a U.S. ambassador over WikiLeaks revelations.  Ecuador’s  trade  preferences with the U.S., set up in 1991
to promote democracy and fight cocaine trafficking, support
about 400,000 jobs in the nation of 14.5 million people,
according to the Ecuadorean-American Chamber of Commerce in
Quito. The workers who harvest the flowers, shrimp and fresh
produce exported under the program would feel the most impact,
with 40,000  jobs  immediately at risk, Nathalie Cely Ecuador’s
ambassador to the U.S., said in a May interview.  Oil Refinery  The threat of reprisals from the U.S. comes at a difficult
time as Ecuador’s biggest refinery is set to shut down for a
year in October for repairs. Losing the refinery’s output will
force the government to spend more on subsidized fuel imports in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ smallest
producer. Oil products also accounted for 93 percent of
Ecuador’s duty-free exports to the U.S. under the Andean
preferences last year, according to a June report from the U.S.
Trade Representative’s office.  The shutdown threatens to spark a liquidity crunch for the
nation that adopted the  U.S. dollar  as its official currency 12
years ago, Economic Policy Minister Jeannette Sanchez said in a
July interview. Ecuador, which defaulted on $3.2 billion of
bonds in 2008 and 2009, sought a $515 million loan from the
Latin American Reserve Fund in July to avoid a balance-of-
payments crisis.  “That’s the underlying concern,” Daniel Legarda,
executive vice president of the Ecuadorean exporters’
federation, said in a telephone interview from Quito on Aug. 21.
“The sources of liquidity for the economy from the private side
are exports, remittances, which are falling, and debt.”  Growth Forecast  Ecuador’s central bank last month lowered its forecast for
growth this  year  to 4.8 percent from 5.35 percent, and its
estimate for next year to 4 percent from 4.37 percent. As part
of its response to the potential liquidity crunch, Ecuador’s
government said July 18 that it is in talks to buy $400 million
of fuel from Iran, which faces U.S. sanctions aimed at
convincing the Islamic republic to curb its nuclear program.  Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida Republican
and chairwoman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, has
condemned Ecuador’s ties with Iran and its decision to grant
Assange asylum.  “This recent action by Correa is just another reason why
the United States needs to reexamine our relationship with
Ecuador, deny Ecuador its trade preferences with the U.S., and
hold  Rafael Correa  accountable to the injustices he has
perpetrated,” she said on Aug. 17.  ‘Blackmail’  Correa has labeled the threats to end trade preferences as
“blackmail.”  “They can do whatever they want, Ecuador doesn’t sell its
sovereignty,” Correa said Aug. 22. “They can keep their tariff
preferences.”  Ecuador is the last remaining beneficiary of the Andean
trade preferences, which originally included Colombia,  Peru  and
 Bolivia . Colombia and Peru have since signed free-trade
agreements with the U.S., and Bolivia was suspended in 2008 for
failure to cooperate with the U.S. on anti-drug efforts.  The expiration of the trade preferences won’t push Ecuador
into recession because the nation can still export oil to the
U.S. and  Asia , said  Eric Farnsworth , vice president of the
Council of the Americas in Washington. Many of Ecuador’s exports
under the Andean preferences are also eligible for the
Generalized System of Preferences, another tariff exemption
program, he said, although the U.S. could rescind those
benefits, too, as it did this year for  Argentina  in retaliation
for their failure to pay damages owed U.S. companies.  ‘Pile of Oil’  “Correa’s sitting on a pile of oil that he’ll continue to
sell into world markets, particularly China,” Farnsworth said
in an interview. “Will Ecuador’s economy collapse? No, but
there will be people that will lose their jobs.”  Since coming to power in 2007, Correa, a 49-year-old former
economics professor, has shuttered a U.S. military base used to
disrupt drug runners, expelled the American ambassador, pursued
closer ties with Iran amid heightened Western sanctions and this
year boycotted a hemispheric summit to protest the U.S. trade
embargo against Cuba. In antagonizing the U.S., Correa is
following in the footsteps of his friend Chavez.  The policy of baiting the U.S. may prove as politically
successful for Correa as it has for Venezuela’s leader.  Correa’s popularity rose to 54 percent this month from 50
percent in July, even as 86 percent of Ecuadoreans said the loss
of the trade agreement would cost jobs, according to a poll by
Quito-based Habitus. The survey of 800 adults had a margin of
error of four percentage points and was conducted Aug. 9-11,
before Ecuador granted Assange asylum.  Trade Office  “The decision to grant Assange asylum may provide Correa
with some small political gains at home,” Eurasia Group analyst
Risa Grais-Targow said in an Aug. 20 research note. Still,
“Correa’s decision will likely undermine Ecuador’s efforts to
restart stalled trade deal negotiations with the European Union,
as well as the extension of U.S. trade preferences.”  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office is currently
accepting petitions from people and companies that want to see
Ecuador’s benefits continued or ended, and no decision has been
made, said spokeswoman Nkenge Harmon. The benefits expire in
July and would need an act of Congress to continue. The Obama
administration could also decide to suspend them earlier.  The agreement to grant asylum to Assange has made Ecuador’s
relations with the U.S. “much more difficult,”  New York 
Representative Eliot Engel, the top Democrat on the Western
Hemisphere panel of the House Committee on  Foreign Affairs , said
in an Aug. 16 interview.  Oil Rally  For now, markets are paying more attention to the price of
oil than the political spat. The yield on Ecuador’s benchmark
dollar bonds due in 2015 has declined 66 basis points, or 0.66
percentage point, to 8.62 percent this year as of yesterday as
oil rebounded from lows in June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Correa’s allegation that Assange faces political
persecution stems in part from the fact the Swedish claims
against him became public around the same time he posted
classified U.S. military and diplomatic cables on WikiLeaks.
Assange argues Sweden fabricated the warrant to assist the U.S.
in punishing him and refuses to go to Sweden on concern he will
then be extradited to the U.S.  No ‘Persecution’  U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said on
Aug. 20 that Assange doesn’t face any “persecution” in the
U.S. and that his asylum request was an issue for the U.K.,
Sweden and Ecuador.  The other State Department official, who declined to be
named, said the expulsion of Obama’s ambassador was unjustified
and the administration is monitoring Iran’s ties with the region
for any violations of U.S. or international sanctions,
particularly oil sales.  Now, as the dispute over Assange drags on, Ecuador is being
left out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement that
the U.S. is negotiating with eight other nations, Farnsworth
said. The talks include  Australia , Brunei,  Chile ,  Malaysia ,  New
Zealand , Peru, Singapore and  Vietnam . Mexico and Canada were
invited to join in June.  “You can fiddle around with Assange at your embassy in
London,” Farnsworth said, “but you’re giving up trade in
Asia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 