-- Assurant Pushed by SEC on Disclosure of Force-Placed Risk
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-28T20:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/assurant-pushed-by-sec-on-disclosure-of-force-placed-risk.html
Assurant Inc. (AIZ) , facing reviews into
whether it overcharges for insurance that some homeowners are
compelled to buy, expanded disclosure about its profits after an
inquiry from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Premium revenue from so-called force-placed coverage was
$36 million in  New York  and $54 million in  California  in the
first six months of this year, New York-based Assurant said in
its second-quarter regulatory filing after the correspondence
with the SEC. The coverage accounted for 89 percent of profit at
Assurant’s specialty property unit this year through June 30,
according to the filing.  California,  Florida  and New York are pressing force-placed
insurers to cut premiums amid inquiries into whether firms
including Assurant and  QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE)  charge too much.
The  National Association of Insurance Commissioners , an
organization of state regulators, held a hearing on the coverage
this month, and Assurant said other watchdogs may examine the
business, also called lender-placed insurance.  “The company has experienced an increase in the number of
inquiries from departments of insurance and other regulators,”
Assurant said in a letter to the SEC dated June 29 and released
today. “If in the aggregate such reviews lead to significant
decreases in premium rates for the company’s lender-placed
insurance products, our results of operations could be
materially adversely affected.”  Assurant slipped 1.7 percent to $33.47 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York, the biggest decline in the 24-company KBW Insurance Index.
The insurer has dropped 18 percent this year.  Mortgage Holders  Force-placed coverage is typically selected by lenders and
paid for by borrowers, and the business expanded as homeowners
missed payments amid the financial crisis. It protects the
mortgage holder from storm damage and vandalism when homeowners
stop paying for their prior policies. Assurant and Sydney-based
QBE control at least 90 percent of the U.S. market, Kevin McCarty, Florida’s insurance commissioner, said this month.  The SEC asked Assurant Chief Executive Officer Robert Pollock, 57, in a June 15 letter for additional disclosure about
revenue in New York and California. The commission said July 31
that it finished its review after responses from the company.
The correspondence is typically made public after the completion
of an evaluation.  “Like all registered companies, our filings are subject to
review by the SEC,”  Robert Byrd , a spokesman for Assurant, said
in an e-mail. “We will continue to work cooperatively with
regulators at the national and state level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  