-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Drop as Resources Outlook Weakens
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-08-28T06:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/aussie-n-z-dollars-drop-as-resources-outlook-weakens.html
Australia ’s dollar touched the
lowest level in a month after commodities slid amid concern
global economic growth will weaken.  The so-called Aussie declined for a fifth day against the
yen after a private report showed the South Pacific nation’s new
home sales dropped for the first time in four months. Data this
week may show Chinese manufacturing stagnated. New Zealand’s
dollar weakened after Asian stocks retreated and dairy exporter
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. cut its forecast for payments to
farmers.  Australia’s new home sales report “doesn’t help the Aussie
as it adds to the negative short-term sentiment,” said Hans Kunnen, chief economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. The
downward trend on the currency “will continue until China does
something or risk appetite’s changed.”  The Australian dollar touched $1.0345, the weakest since
July 26, before trading at $1.0365 at 4:08 p.m. in Sydney,
compared with $1.0369 yesterday in New York. It slid 0.3 percent
to 81.29 yen. New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, declined
0.1 percent to 80.76 U.S. cents and 0.4 percent to 63.45 yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks lost 0.5 percent. The
 Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials fell 0.1
percent yesterday.  Global Economy  Australian sales of  newly built homes  decreased 5.6 percent
to 5,682 last month from June, when they gained 2.8 percent, the
Canberra-based Housing Industry Association said today, citing a
survey of the nation’s largest builders.  The nation’s government bonds  were little changed , with 10-
year yields at 3.20 percent, after touching 3.17 percent, the
lowest since Aug. 3.  A report yesterday showed profits for industrial companies
in China fell 5.4 percent in July from a year earlier. China is
Australia’s biggest trading partner and New Zealand’s second-
largest export market.  A  Purchasing Managers ’ Index of Chinese manufacturing
probably fell to 50 in August from 50.1 the previous month,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the data on Sept. 1. Fifty marks the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  “The recent softness in the Aussie is generated by the
softer resources outlook that we’re hearing and the negative
news that we’ve had already from China,” said Emma Lawson, a
Sydney-based currency strategist at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) 
“Now the market is waiting for a follow-up stimulus response
from various governments.”  Fonterra Forecast  New Zealand’s dollar fell against most of its 16 major
counterparts after Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy exporter,
cut its forecast payout to farmer suppliers for the current
production season. The company will pay its 11,000 farmer
shareholders NZ$5.25 ($4.24) a kilogram of milk solids in the
year ending May 31, 2013, the Auckland-based company said in a
statement today.  Losses in the Australian and New Zealand dollars were
limited before the  Federal Reserve ’s annual symposium in  Jackson
Hole , Wyoming, this week. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will speak at the
event.  “The case for further monetary relaxation in the U.S. is
pretty strong,”  Russell Jones , the Sydney-based global head of
fixed-income strategy at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “We might get an element of
disappointment this weekend, but I still think ultimately you’ll
see the Fed move on monetary policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  