-- Australia Mining Slowdown Hits Economy Never Down on Luck
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-29T06:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/australia-mining-slowdown-hitting-economy-never-down-on-its-luck.html
Australia , known as the lucky
country for its resource abundance and temperate climate, is
about to find out how long its latest  winning streak  will last.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner, last week
mothballed projects valued at more than A$50 billion ($52
billion) by Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG. At the
same time, Australia’s  resources  minister called the end of a
bull run in commodity prices, and the central bank chief
predicted the cresting of the investment wave within two years.  The deceleration of the industry that helped secure 21
 recession-free  years heightens focus on the views of a minority
seeing economic contraction in a nation where consumers took on
more debt than Americans at the height of the mortgage bubble.
While Bloomberg News surveys indicate growth exceeding 3 percent
in 2013 and 2014, Deutsche Bank sees the danger of a recession.  “There is a view around Australia that says this is a
different economy,” said Adam Boyton, chief economist for
Australia at Deutsche Bank in Sydney, who previously worked at
the nation’s Treasury. “My point is: was it skill or luck that
drove  iron ore  and coking-coal prices higher from the Australian
perspective,” he said. “It was more luck than skill.”  The  windfall  Australia gets from exports, called the terms
of trade, will slump 15 percent in the final three months of
2012 from a year before, a magnitude that presaged a recession
in three of the five times it’s happened in the past half
century, according to Boyton. The central bank estimates the
terms of trade reached a 140-year high last year.  Rate Cut  Such a drop would send growth lower and spur the central
bank to cut  interest rates , he said. Deutsche Bank has
underestimated Australia’s annual gross domestic product in four
of the past six quarters.  Others have been warning for months that the fastest-
growing major developed economy is vulnerable to a collapse,
bucking a majority view that Australia’s pipeline of resources
projects, low unemployment, sustained wage gains and limited
government debt give it the underpinnings for continued success.  The burst-bubble argument centers on Australia’s dependence
on  China . A quarter of its  exports , or about 5 percent of GDP,
goes to the world’s second-largest economy, and 60 percent of
those shipments are a single commodity -- iron ore. The end of a
Chinese residential-construction surge will sate demand for that
product, says  Andy Xie , a former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  chief Asia-
Pacific economist.  China Impact  “China’s iron-ore imports are going to slow down
dramatically,” Xie, a former World Bank economist who
researched globalization and bubbles, said in an interview from
 Hong Kong . “It’s not just because of the economic downturn;
it’s because construction of property and infrastructure has
peaked” in Australia’s No. 1 customer, he said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March cut the government’s growth
target for China to 7.5 percent for this year, the lowest since
2004, as policy makers there seek to reduce the role of large-
scale fixed-asset investment in favor of greater consumer
demand. China also has applied limited stimulus relative to
2008-09, as officials rein in property market speculation.  “I don’t think there’s ever been a miracle economy that
ultimately lived up to its billing,” said Dylan Grice, global
strategist at  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in London, who cited the
Japanese experience of the 1980s, Thailand before the 1997-1998
Asian financial crisis and Ireland’s “Emerald Tiger” period
last decade. “This year’s miracle is next year’s disaster.”  Weaker Construction  A government report today showed the value of construction
work fell 0.2 percent in the second quarter from the January-
March period, compared with the median estimate for a 0.5
percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Grice predicts the Aussie, one of the biggest beneficiaries
of the economy’s outperformance, will collapse to 60 to 70 U.S.
cents, and Xie sees a slide to about 70 cents, with neither
putting a time frame on their calls. The currency bought $1.0378
at 4:33 p.m. in Sydney today, and has averaged $1.02 in the past
two years -- up from 72 U.S. cents for the prior decade.  Foreign-exchange markets don’t reflect Grice and Xie’s
predictions. The currency, which historically has weakened as
domestic economic prospects decline, has gained 1.4 percent this
quarter. Currency forwards today showed a 1 percent chance of a
30 percent drop in the Australian dollar in the next 12 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The probability of a 10
percent drop in the Aussie was 50.6 percent.  Currency’s Strength  The Aussie is up for the year so far against the dollar
even after commodity prices cooled. That divergence may be
unsustainable, according to John Quiggin, a professor at the
University of Queensland’s School of Economics in Brisbane.  “If we didn’t have this huge export boom, we could
reasonably expect that the dollar would be at something like 80
U.S. cents,” said Quiggin, author of books on the economy
including “Great Expectations: Microeconomic Reform and
Australia.”  Iron ore dropped to a 2 1/2-year low in August, and thermal
coal at the Australian port of Newcastle, the benchmark price
for Asia, fell 17 percent in the three months through June, the
worst quarter since 2009, according to data provider IHS
McCloskey. Prices for Australian raw-materials exports slid in
July to the lowest since 2010, and the commodity price index has
fallen 10.8 percent over the past year, the RBA said this month.  Shelved Projects  Along with BHP,  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) , the nation’s largest
energy retailer, is reducing spending targets. A proposed
expansion of  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ’s A$15 billion Pluto
project in Western Australia is on hold after the company said
Aug. 22 it failed to find enough gas to support a second phase.  “The boom in commodity prices is over -- no one can deny
it,” Resource Minister  Martin Ferguson  told reporters Aug. 23.
The next day,  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens 
told lawmakers “the peak of the resource investment boom as a
share of gross domestic product, the highest such peak in at
least a century, will occur within the next year or two.”  In July, Stevens gave a speech he called “The Lucky
Country” promoting optimism and using the same title as a 1964
book by Donald Horne that was critical of Australia’s dependence
on natural resources for prosperity while other industrial
nations pursued technological innovations.  This month’s shelved mining projects were a blow to Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard , who in May had called mining “our
economy’s strong right arm.”  Policy Responses  Policy makers have signaled confidence they have the tools
to cope with any external turbulence, with Martin Parkinson, the
Treasury’s top bureaucrat, on Aug. 16 citing “capacity across
the arms of fiscal and monetary policy” and the RBA saying Aug.
10 Australia was “well placed” to respond to global shocks.  The central bank’s benchmark rate, at 3.5 percent, is the
highest among major developed economies. Australia’s gross
government debt, which the International Monetary Fund estimates
at 24 percent of GDP compared with 107 percent for the U.S.,
also gives it scope for fiscal stimulus.  The ability to respond to any Chinese hard landing with
policy stimulus distinguishes Australia from much of the rest of
the global economy, said Saul Eslake, chief economist for the
country at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch division in
Melbourne, who has analyzed the Australian economy as a
financial economist for a quarter century.  Eslake predicts 3.5 percent growth for the economy this
year, slowing to 3.1 percent in 2013. He plays down the danger
of a buildup in household borrowing, saying that “although
Australians appear to have a lot of debt, the distribution of
debt is skewed towards people who can afford to service it.”  Last Recession  The Australian economy last contracted for two straight
quarters -- a textbook definition of a recession -- in the first
half of 1991 after the benchmark interest rate was raised to 18
percent to deflate a credit boom. In the fallout from the slump,
the  unemployment rate  soared to a record 11.2 percent in
December 1992, on a par with the euro area’s level in June.  Since then, the RBA’s preferred gauge of inflation has
averaged near the middle of its 2 percent to 3 percent target
range. Slower price gains allowed lower rates, contributing to
Australians loading up on debt.  The country’s  consumer borrowing  stood at 149.7 percent of
disposable income in the first quarter, compared with a record
156.3 percent in 2006, RBA data show. That’s higher than the 133
percent Americans accumulated at the peak of the U.S. subprime
mortgage boom, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of  San
Francisco .  Living Expenses  Seven of the world’s 25 most-expensive cities are in
Australia, led by Sydney and the capital Canberra, according to
ECA International’s Worldwide Cost of Living Survey conducted in
March.  John Muellbauer, a professor of economics at the University
of Oxford in the U.K., flagged the risks the country faces at an
RBA conference on Aug. 20-21 in Sydney.  “Dependence on exporting to China and more generally its
reliance on a permanent improvement in its international terms
of trade does point to a potential vulnerability in other
economic fundamentals,” Muellbauer said in his prepared
remarks. “If these fundamentals turned negative, the high
levels of  household debt  in Australia could seriously constrain
growth.”  Brian Redican , a senior economist in Sydney at Macquarie
Group Ltd., the nation’s largest investment bank, said in a
report this week that the nation’s Treasury uses a “rule of
thumb” that a 5 percent fall in the terms of trade reduces
nominal gross domestic product by 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  