-- Baidu Rises Most in Three Weeks as Qihoo Sinks: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-28T20:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/baidu-rises-most-in-three-weeks-as-qihoo-sinks-china-overnight.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of  China ’s largest
online search engine, rose the most in three weeks in  New York 
as it takes steps to fend off competition from Qihoo 360
Technology Co.  Baidu climbed 3.2 percent in its third day of gains while
software developer Qihoo, which started a new search engine
earlier this month, lost 6.2 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese companies in the U.S.
rose 0.5 percent to 89.48 yesterday. Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co. and Trina Solar Ltd. rallied on a surge in  Japan ’s solar
products imports, while  Perfect World Co. (PWRD)  extended losses.  Baidu’s dominance of China’s online search market is under
threat from Qihoo, which started a new search tool on Aug. 16.
In an effort to preserve its 80 percent market share, Baidu has
started to redirect all search queries made through its search
engine, including those originated from other platforms such as
Qihoo’s, to its home page, according to Henry Guo, an analyst at
ThinkEquity LLC.  “This change will have a negative impact on users’ search
experience on Qihoo’s platform,” Guo said by phone yesterday
from  San Francisco . “We remain positive about Baidu’s long-term
growth potential, considering its strong leadership position and
momentum in new growth drivers such as mobile and cloud.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.3 percent to $33.61,
snapping a nine-day slump. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
the biggest U.S. shares fell 0.1 percent to 1,409.30, as
investors weighed economic reports ahead of Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s speech on the economy in three days.  Baidu Advances  Baidu’s American depositary receipts advanced to $120.62 in
the biggest rally since Aug. 6. The ADRs have rebounded 4.2
percent this week after plunging 14 percent in the previous
five-day period, the biggest weekly tumble in 11 months.  Qihoo sank 6.2 percent to $21.55, the biggest loss since
July 2.  Baidu directed queries originating from web browsers such
as Mozilla Corp.’s Firefox, Microsoft Corp’s Internet Explorer,
and Qihoo’s 360 browser automatically to Baidu’s search home
page, according to a  report  yesterday on the website of Sina
Corp., which runs the Twitter-like Weibo social messaging
service in China.  “Consumers and the industry will benefit only if we use
competition to break up monopolies,” Qihoo Chief Executive
Officer Zhou Hongyi said in a post on his  Weibo account .
“Competition will improve the quality of online search.”  Solars Gain  Yingli, the world’s sixth-largest silicon-based solar
module producer, climbed 4.3 percent to $1.95 after a three-day
slide.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the fourth-largest maker, advanced 3.1
percent to $4.92 in its first gain in four days.  Japan’s imports of solar cells and modules more than
tripled to 132 megawatts in the second quarter while domestic
shipments surged 72 percent to 445 megawatts, the Japan
Photovoltaic Energy Association said in a statement yesterday.  The figures show cells and modules produced outside Japan
accounted for 30 percent of all domestic shipments in the
quarter. Japan started an incentive program for clean energy in
July after the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster, requiring
utilities to buy clean energy at above-market rates.  China Life Climbs  ADRs of China Life Insurance Co., the nation’s biggest
insurer, rallied 2.2 percent to $40.32 after sliding in the five
previous days. The ADRs, each representing 15 underlying shares
in the company, traded 2.7 percent  above  its Hong Kong stock,
the highest premium since December.  The insurer said yesterday first-half profit fell 26
percent to 9.64 billion  yuan  ($1.5 billion) as Chinese stock-
market declines crimped investment returns and income from
premiums dropped. Net premiums earned during the period fell 5.2
percent, it said.  Premiums income may be slightly better in the second half
as the base is lower and China’s interest-rate cuts improve the
appeal of insurance products, Luo Qi, a Shenzhen-based analyst
with Ping An Securities Co., said yesterday.  Perfect World , China’s fourth-biggest online games
operator, extended losses to a sixth day, dipping 1.3 percent to
a two-week low of $10.38.  The Beijing-based company reported on Aug. 27 after U.S.
markets closed that net income fell 50 percent in the second
quarter from a year ago to 158.2 million yuan, below the  mean
estimate  of 162.4 million yuan of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company  forecast  sales to be between 643 million
yuan and 676 million yuan, also trailing analysts’ projection of
691.4 million yuan.  Four analysts reduced their  price targets  yesterday for
Perfect World. Mark Marostica at Piper Jaffray Cos lowered his
estimate by $3 to $24, the biggest cut among the four.  The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.8 percent yesterday
to 2,073.15, the biggest increase in three weeks. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies dropped 0.2 percent
to a one-month low of 9,521.77.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  