-- Baoshan Surges by Limit on Share Buyback Plan: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-28T04:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/baoshan-surges-by-limit-on-share-buyback-plan-shanghai-mover.html
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) ,  China ’s
biggest publicly traded steelmaker, surged by the daily limit of
10 percent, the biggest gain in almost four years, after
announcing a 5 billion  yuan  ($786 million) share buyback plan.  Baoshan climbed as much as 0.41 yuan, set for the biggest
intraday gain since Sept. 25, 2008, to 4.48 yuan in  Shanghai ,
trading at that level at 10:01 a.m. local time. The Shanghai-
based company yesterday said it would buy the shares back at no
more than 5 yuan each.  Baoshan’s buyback plan prompted gains by rivals including
Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. and Angang Steel Co. Chinese publicly
traded companies, especially those whose stock prices are below
their book values, have an obligation to buy back shares, the
China Securities Journal reported Aug. 2, citing an unidentified
official at the China Securities Regulatory Commission.  “Baoshan’s buyback plan involves the purchase up to one-
fifth of its tradable shares,” said  Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based
chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment Management Co.,
which manages about $120 million. “Investors are likely to vote
for the plan.”  A total of 19 Chinese steel stocks trade below their book
values, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Baoshan’s per-
share book value was 6.15 yuan, while Angang’s was 6.75 yuan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Baoshan reported yesterday that first-half profit surged 89
percent to 9.61 billion after it sold unprofitable stainless-
steel and specialty-steel units to its parent.  Chinese steelmakers posted an aggregate 96 percent drop in
first-half profit as the  European debt crisis  and domestic
property curbs sap demand and prices, according to the China
Iron and Steel Association. Angang Steel, China’s biggest Hong
Kong-traded steelmaker, yesterday posted a net loss of 1.98
billion yuan.  “Baoshan can do this because of its big  cash flow ,”
Jingxi Investment’s Wang said. “It could be difficult for other
mills, like Angang, to follow the buyback plan.”  Angang advanced 2.3 percen to 3.63 yuan today in Shenzhen
as of 10:53 a.m. local time, Wuhan, the listed unit of China’s
fourth-biggest mill, gained 2.8 percent to 2.56 yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  