-- Bernanke to Reiterate Fed Minutes at Jackson Hole, El-Erian Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-08-28T15:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/bernanke-to-reiterate-fed-minutes-at-jackson-hole-el-erian-says.html
Ben S. Bernanke  probably won’t
provide specific plans for further monetary action at the
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City’s annual  Jackson Hole 
symposium this week, according to Pacific Investment Management
Co. Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian.  The Fed signaled last week it’s ready to take further steps
to spur the economic recovery. Many policy makers said
additional stimulus probably will be needed soon unless the
economy shows signs of a durable pickup, according to minutes
released Aug. 22 of the central bank’s most recent meeting, on
July 31-Aug. 1. Fed Chairman Bernanke is scheduled to speak on
Aug. 31 at the economic-policy conference in Wyoming.  “The minutes were consequential and we don’t expect
Bernanke to take it further than what the minutes said,” El-
Erian, also the co-chief investment officer of the world’s
largest manager of bond funds, said on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “It’s highly probable that he
will outline the options that the Fed has available and the
commitment to do more if needed.”  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of debt from 2008 to
2011 in two rounds of what’s become known as quantitative
easing, or QE. It has also kept its benchmark  interest rate  at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and has pledged to hold
it there until at least 2014.  Bernanke said in a letter dated Aug. 22 to Representative
 Darrell Issa , a  California  Republican who chairs the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, that the Fed has the
ability to take additional steps to boost the economy.  ‘Less Favorable’  More “stimulus would have more some impact, especially if
the Fed focuses on buying mortgage securities,” El-Erian said
from Pimco’s headquarters in Newport Beach, California. And the
Fed’s easing has allowed borrowing costs to remain
“artificially low,” thus stimulating the economy, he said.  Monetary policy  is exhibiting diminishing returns and has
the potential for causing “collateral damage” for  money market
funds , pension funds, the  insurance industry  and “the
functioning of markets” El-Erian said. “The equation between
costs and risks are becoming less favorable and that’s an issue
for the Fed.”  Mortgages,  at 51 percent in July, are the largest holdings
in the flagship  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  managed by Pimco founder  Bill Gross , who serves as co-chief investment officer with El-Erian.  Fiscal Cliff  Treasury yields remain close to the lowest ever amid a
slowing economy, global financial turmoil and U.S. unemployment
above 8 percent for more than three years. The year-end “fiscal
cliff” of higher U.S. taxes and reductions in spending on
defense and other government programs that will take effect
unless Congress acts also clouds the economic outlook, he said.  “What we’ve learned over the last couple of years is
politics matter,” El-Erian said. “We need clarity on the macro
side, and you need people to worry less about the functioning of
markets.”  The $270 billion Total Return Fund gained 8.61 percent
during the past year, beating 92 percent of its peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund gained 0.56 percent in
the past month, beating 90 percent of its peers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  