-- Bernanke Backed by Better Financial State: Chart of the Day
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-08-29T01:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/bernanke-backed-by-better-financial-conditions-chart-of-the-day.html
Measures showing U.S. financial
market conditions have improved put little pressure on Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to signal added monetary
stimulus this week, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the Bloomberg U.S. Financial
Conditions Index moved above zero on July 27, a threshold that
signals receding market risk. It was below negative 1 last year
when Bernanke spoke at the Kansas City Fed’s annual economic
symposium in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming . The bottom panel shows the
spread between the rate to exchange floating for fixed-interest
payments and Treasury yields for two years, a gauge of
investors’ perceived risk in the banking sector, fell yesterday
to the lowest since May 2011. Bernanke speaks at this year’s
Jackson Hole conference on Aug. 31.  “Most Fed officials would acknowledge that quantitative
easing is most effective in addressing financial turmoil and
it’s harder to prove its real fundamental, economic effects,”
 Dana Saporta , U.S. economist in  New York  at Credit Suisse, said
in an interview yesterday, referring to the central bank’s debt-
purchasing strategy. “The financial markets are calmer now than
they were in early August. Our thinking, and perhaps that of the
chairman, as well, is that while easing is highly likely from
the Fed in the months ahead, the timing is uncertain.”  The so-called swap spread narrowed to a one-year low of
16.3 basis points yesterday as investors speculate policy makers
will contain  Europe ’s debt crisis and that America’s economy
will endure headwinds from the region’s troubles. Sentiment
toward the euro area has improved since European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  vowed on July 26 to do “whatever it
takes” to save the common currency and signaled that would
include buying sovereign debt.  Bernanke may structure his  Jackson Hole  speech this year as
he did in 2010, discussing the economic outlook, policy actions
to date, and costs and benefits of future policy alternatives,
Saporta and Neal Soss, chief U.S. economist at Credit Suisse,
wrote in a note published on Aug. 26. Credit Suisse gives a 50
percent chance the Fed will ease monetary policy at their policy
meeting, Sept. 12-13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  