-- Big Coal Faces Steel Slowdown Amid Shale-Gas Pain: Commodities
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-08-29T17:31:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/big-coal-faces-steel-slowdown-amid-shale-gas-pain-commodities.html
Four of the largest U.S. coal
producers made $20 billion of acquisitions last year to reduce
their dependence on the domestic power industry. Instead those
deals have added to the companies’ pain.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) ,  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) ,  Arch
Coal Inc. (ACI)  and  Walter Energy Inc. (WLT)  completed takeovers that
boosted sales of metallurgical coal used in steelmaking. The
companies bet that the coal, which sells for a higher price than
the thermal variety burned to generate electricity, would
benefit from booming Asian demand and counter threats from
falling natural-gas prices and extra environmental regulation.  That strategy isn’t working out as planned. Prices for
metallurgical coal, which were forecast by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in November to jump 50 percent in 2012, have fallen 16 percent
so far this year amid slowing steel output in  China  and  Europe .
That may mean the U.S. coal industry, which has already seen the
bankruptcy of  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ)  in July, will continue to burn
through free cash for another year.  “There was some belief that there was countercyclicality
between met and thermal,” said David Gagliano, an analyst at
Barclays Plc in  New York . “What we’ve learned is that they
aren’t that different.”  U.S. coal producers have been closing mines and firing
workers this year as some power plants switch from coal to gas,
which is trading close to a decade-low amid booming output from
shale rock.  Production Decline  Alpha’s 70 percent drop in 2012 makes it the worst
performer on the 29-member  Stowe Global Coal Index (COAL) , which lost
31 percent in the period. Arch is down 57 percent, and Peabody
has declined 34 percent in the period.  Domestic coal output in 2012 will fall 7.4 percent, or by
81 million tons, according to data from the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  Prices for Central Appalachian thermal coal, the U.S.
benchmark, have declined 16 percent in the past year to $58.12 a
ton on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  “It’s hard for us to imagine them getting much worse,”
Mark Levin, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond,
Virginia, said in an Aug. 21 note.  Low-volatility metallurgical-coal prices are down 34
percent over the last 12 months to $192.50 a ton, according to
data published weekly by Energy Publishing Inc. China, the
second-largest economy and biggest steelmaker, expanded 7.6
percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace in three years.
Its daily steel output fell in July from the previous month and
domestic steel prices are at their lowest in more than two
years.  ‘Unusual Confluence’  Also adding to the gloom is the recession in Europe, the
destination for about half of U.S. metallurgical-coal exports.
Luxembourg-based  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest steelmaker,
was cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 2.  “Clearly we’ve seen issues in the near term with a weak
 U.S. economy , recession in Europe and deceleration in China,”
Vic Svec, a Peabody spokesman, said in an interview. “It’s an
unusual confluence of weakness.”  Metallurgical coal won’t rebound in 2013, according to
BB&T’s Levin, Prices will average $210 next year, up 9 percent
from yesterday’s price, while thermal coal will be $70, a 20
percent increase from current prices, he said in an Aug. 14
note.  If metallurgical coal averages less than $200 next year and
thermal doesn’t “explode to the upside,” then producers
including Alpha, Peabody, Arch and Walter won’t generate
positive free  cash flow , Levin said.  Unprecedented Conditions  Peabody, Alpha and Arch all reported negative free cash
flow in the second quarter, meaning they didn’t generate enough
cash to run their businesses, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The data is calculated by subtracting  capital
expenditures  including property additions from cash from
operating activities.  This year has been unprecedented, according to Peabody’s
Svec, who also said the company’s year-to-date free cash flow is
$153 million. The St. Louis-based company expects coal burned
for power in the U.S. to be down by as much as 120 million tons,
as utilities use more gas instead. That’s something that
couldn’t have been predicted, he said.  Peabody, Alpha, Walter and Arch have lost a combined $9.4
billion in market value in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Speed Bump’  Alpha paid $7.5 billion including debt for Massey Energy
Co. in July 2011. Bristol, Virginia-based Alpha paid 25 times
Massey’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, making it the most expensive and the largest U.S.
coal takeover, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Alpha
has plunged 70 percent this year, the  worst performer  on the
Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.  “Our fundamental conviction is that the world is
structurally undersupplied of high-quality metallurgical coal
for the foreseeable future,” Alpha Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Kevin Crutchfield told investors on a January, 2011,
conference call when Alpha announced the deal.  “We continue to believe that the Massey acquisition makes
great strategic sense for Alpha,”  Ted Pile , an Alpha spokesman,
said Aug. 27. “What we’re seeing right now is a speed bump.”  Peabody acquired  Australia ’s MacArthur Coal Ltd. in
December for A$3.8 billion ($3.9 billion) to expand its sales of
metallurgical coal to  Asia .  ‘Tremendous Resource’  “Macarthur gives us a tremendous met coal resource and
pipeline of projects in the world’s largest met-coal exporting
nation, serving the fastest growing countries in the world,”
Svec said.  Arch bought International Coal Group in May last year for
$3.1 billion and Walter completed its takeover of Canada’s
Western Coal Corp. for C$5.3 billion ($5.4 billion) in April of
2011.  “With the acquisition of ICG, Arch obtained some of the
highest-quality metallurgical coal reserves in the world,” said
Deck Slone, an Arch spokesman. “The market potential for these
coals will only grow in the years ahead.”  Paul Blalock, a spokesman for Walter, declined to comment.  Consol’s Bet  Not all producers made similar decisions on metallurgical
coal.  Consol Energy Inc. (CNX)  opted to expand into gas, paying $3.5
billion for assets of Dominion Resources Inc. Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania-based Consol overtook Peabody in May as the biggest
U.S. coal miner by market value. It’s trading at about 17 times
estimated 2012 net income, a higher ratio than Peabody and
Walter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Consol Energy is developing its metallurgical coal assets
organically at a cost per ton well below competitors’ recent
acquisition rates,” said Lynn Seay, a Consol spokeswoman.  “Consol made a big bet on natural gas, Peabody made a big
bet on Australia,” said Lucas Pipes, an analyst at  Brean Murray 
Carret & Co. in New York. “Investors in my opinion are more
comfortable about natural-gas prices bottoming than about the
outlook for seaborne coal prices.”  Most metallurgical coal that’s seaborne -- the industry
term for coal exported by oceangoing ship -- is priced each
quarter based on a benchmark established by the largest
exporters and users.  Mild Weather  U.S. coal producers have been affected by unusually warm
winter weather, which helped to curb demand for thermal coal.
The industry is also facing regulations from the Environmental
Protection Agency restricting the burning of coal to produce
power, limiting new mining permits and enacting tighter water-
quality limits.  The increasing regulatory burden combined with competition
from cheaper gas has put U.S. coal producers’ “backs to the
wall,” and metallurgical-coal hasn’t helped, Brean Murray’s
Pipes said.  “There was generally an expectation met coal was going to
hold up better,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  