-- Britain May Ease IPO Rules to Prevent $15 Billion Drain
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-08-29T17:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/britain-may-ease-ipo-rules-to-prevent-15-billion-drain.html
As  Avast Software NV (AVST)  planned its
initial public offering last year, Chief Executive Officer
Vincent Steckler considered listing the Czech anti-virus
software maker in London before finally settling on the Nasdaq
Stock Market in  New York . U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
doesn’t want that to happen again.  To attract more technology firms such as Avast, Britain is
considering new rules that would make the  London Stock Exchange (LSE) 
more attractive to startups. Taking a page from the  Jumpstart
Our Business Startups  Act approved by the  U.S. Congress  this
year, the government may cut the minimum stake IPO candidates
are required to sell, from 25 percent to 10 percent.  “The U.K is looking into adopting elements of the U.S.
JOBS Act, relaxing rules including equity listings,”  Rohan
Silva , a technology adviser to Cameron, said after meeting with
entrepreneurs and investors at the prime minister’s Downing
Street residence last month to discuss the government’s role in
nurturing startups.  Europe  could lose companies worth as much as $15 billion if
the region’s 20 to 30 biggest IPO-ready technology firms were to
list in the U.S.,  London  venture-capital firm Balderton Capital
estimates.  The British government sees a relaxation of IPO rules “as
part of the broader effort to create a fantastic ecosystem for
startups,” said Neil Rimer, co-founder of Europe’s largest
venture capital fund, Index Ventures. “You really can’t be a
contender for those businesses unless they have the ability to
access public markets.”  AIM Listings  While London’s Alternative Investment Market already has
looser requirements for startups, it has become a hub for
companies that weren’t fully prepared to go public when they
sold shares, Rimer said. That’s led healthier companies to shy
away from it, he said.  For several years, Prague-based Avast had evaluated
European exchanges such as Frankfurt, Amsterdam, and especially
London, Steckler said. A key drawback he cited for a U.K.
listing is the requirement that businesses offer such a big
percentage of their shares. Companies that expect to expand
quickly, such as his, often prefer to sell a smaller stake.  “You need investors who understand growth and not just a
dividend business,” Steckler said.  European Slump  Avast shelved its plan to raise about $100 million last
month after shares of  AVG Technologies NV (AVG) , another Czech
software maker that listed in the U.S. in February, slumped 30
percent within weeks. Steckler said he’s still aiming for a U.S.
offering when market conditions recover.  U.S. IPOs raised $45 billion in the past 12 months, down 31
percent from a year earlier. Tech listings, though, were up
threefold, accounting for $18.7 billion as companies such as
Facebook Inc. sold shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. IPOs in Western Europe dropped to $5.6 billion, down
88 percent. The technology sector, with eight offerings, raised
86 percent less than a year earlier.  The median price-to-earnings ratio for technology companies
on U.S. exchanges is 18.5, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The figure for tech companies on Western European
exchanges is 14, meaning investors there assign a lower value to
these companies than their American counterparts.  ‘High Growth’  Alex Ham, co-head of corporate broking at Numis Corp., who
has helped list tech outfits such as online bookmaker  Betfair
Group Plc (BET) , said successful London IPOs of Internet clothing
retailer  Asos Plc (ASC) , residential-property website  Rightmove Plc (RMV) 
and biotechnology firm  Abcam Plc (ABC)  are encouraging. Such companies
have started to attract more interest, he said, although there’s
still a scarcity of “interesting, entrepreneurial high-growth
businesses.”  U.S. exchanges have had their own struggles, and a listing
there doesn’t guarantee a better return. Mail.ru Group,  Russia ’s
largest Internet company, raised $912 million in a November,
2010 listing in London. Its stock is up 17 percent. By contrast,
 Yandex NV (YNDX) , a Russian Web company whose search engine is more
popular in its home market than  Google Inc. (GOOG) , is down 15 percent
since its $1.3 billion Nasdaq IPO in May 2011.  Facebook’s IPO in May on the  Nasdaq  was plagued by delays
and malfunctions that led Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. to propose to
pay brokers $62 million in compensation. The  stock  had lost 49
percent of its value through yesterday.  Some European entrepreneurs who gravitate toward the U.S.
say listing requirements aren’t the issue that’s driving them
away. Yandex Chief Financial Officer Alexander Shulgin says
bigger problems are scant support for the tech startup scene in
Europe and a lack of willing investors.  ‘Most Liquid’  “For us, the choice was very straightforward,” Shulgin
said. “The U.S. market is the most liquid in the world.”  Barry Maloney, Balderton Capital’s founding partner, says
Britain should instead focus on making it easier for
entrepreneurs to start businesses to develop a competitive local
Web industry.  “Make sure you can get visas to countries for skills you
want to bring in,” Maloney said. “Make sure share options are
taxed the right way. Make sure there’s broadband.”  The U.K.’s two largest parties have favored tougher
immigration policies. Home Secretary Theresa May in June said
that companies raising concerns about visa regulations were
“sending a negative message. They should be doing their bit to
show we’re open for business.” The U.K. is also behind other
European countries in introducing faster fourth-generation
mobile-phone networks.  Investor Experience  Axel Dauchez , the CEO of  Deezer , a French music-streaming
service with about 20 million users, said what’s most important
for entrepreneurs wanting to go public are the number and
experience of investors. If his company were to hold an IPO, he
said he would choose the Nasdaq even though Deezer does no
business in the U.S.  “Is it easier for me to be global coming from Europe or is
it easier for me to be global coming from the U.S.?” Dauchez
said. “There is a very clear answer in terms of access to
capital: It is the U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  