-- Bumi Falls to 41-Month Low; Director Says Drop ‘Irrational’
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-08-28T10:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/bumi-plunges-to-41-month-low-director-says-drop-irrational-.html
PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) , Asia’s biggest
power-station coal exporter, sank to the lowest level in more
than three years after posting a first-half loss and an
 investment company  failed to repay $231 million due yesterday.  Shares of Jakarta-based Bumi  sank  14.6 percent to 760
rupiah at the 4 p.m. Jakarta time close, the lowest since March
20, 2009. The drop was the biggest on the 820-member  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , which fell 0.2 percent.  Bumi shares have fallen 18 percent the past two days after
the company reported Aug. 26 a first-half loss of $322 million,
compared with a restated net gain of $232 million a year earlier.
PT Recapital Asset Management, an investment fund management
group, didn’t repay Bumi $231 million that was due Aug. 27,
London-listed  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , which owns 29.2 percent of Bumi
Resources, said in a statement today.  “The loss that they had is not what the market expected,”
Fadlul Imansyah, who helps manage about $170 million at PT CIMB
Principal Asset Management, said by phone from Jakarta today.
“The market has very negative sentiments on this group. Once
they release something negative, everybody is giving more
discount to the share price.”  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., Southeast Asia’s top-ranked
investment bank, cut the stock to underperform, equivalent to
sell, from neutral.  The drop is “irrational but understandable in today’s
charged, speculative, wired environment and trading,” Director
 Dileep Srivastava  said in an e-mailed response to questions
today. “Our first-half results are operationally sound on sales
and growth. I also suspect there may be margin calls and a
higher market expectation which is proving unreal in today’s
uncertain sector and economic environment.”  Coal prices at Australia’s Newcastle port, an Asian
benchmark, have fallen 21 percent this year as the Chinese
economy slowed and after U.S. and South African producers
shifted coal sales to Asia amid a debt crisis in Europe.  Bumi has tumbled 65 percent this year, underperforming the
8.3 percent gain in the benchmark  Jakarta Composite Index. (JCI)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  