-- Business Roundtable’s Engler Questions Romney China Trade Vow
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-08-28T16:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/business-roundtable-s-engler-questions-romney-china-trade-vow.html
The president of an association of
chief executives of major U.S. companies said he doubts
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  will follow
through on his threat to brand China a currency manipulator on
his first day in the White House.  John Engler , president of the  Business Roundtable  and a
former Republican governor of  Michigan , commented today at a
breakfast discussion of international trade at the  Republican
National Convention  co-sponsored by Bloomberg and the Tampa Bay
Host Committee.  Asked whether he supported Romney’s pledge of an immediate
designation, Engler responded, “I don’t think that he will,”
though the business association leader added, “I think he will
take a look at it.”  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and private-equity
executive, has made a forceful stance on trade competition with
China a centerpiece of his appeal to working-class voters in
battleground states such as  Ohio  and regularly criticizes
President  Barack Obama  for failing to sanction  China .  Engler called designation of China as a currency
manipulator “very politically delicate,” given the
sensitivities of the Chinese government leadership. Still, he
added, “a lot of economists” have concluded that China’s
currency is undervalued.  Trade Deficit  The U.S. ran a $27.4 billion  trade deficit  with China in
June, up from $26.7 billion for the month a year earlier,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau, which doesn’t seasonally
adjust the figure. The deficit with China in goods totaled $295
billion last year, the largest the U.S. has had with any
country.  At the same time, China is the third-largest U.S. export
market behind Canada and  Mexico , and many of the largest U.S.
companies prefer a less confrontational approach than Romney’s.  The U.S.-China Business Council, a trade association
including Exxon Mobil Corp., General Electric Co. and Google
Inc., plays down the importance of the currency issue and says
any approach to “global economic imbalances” should be
multilateral.  Executive Order  Romney’s campaign website site says that one of five
executive orders the Republican would issue on his first day in
the White House would be one that directs the Treasury
Department to list China as a currency manipulator and instructs
the Commerce Department “to assess countervailing duties on
Chinese imports if China does not quickly move to float its
currency.”  Romney would confront procedural hurdles in making that
designation on his first day, Engler said.  Engler added that he hoped the Chinese government would
“react” to Romney’s trade stance if the Republican is elected
by allowing the country’s currency to rise during the transition
period before the Jan. 20 change in administration.  Pressing the Chinese government to take more effective
action to protect intellectual property is “for many more
important,” Engler said.  Improved intellectual property protection in China would
have increased U.S. companies’ sales by $107 billion in 2009,
and U.S. employment by 2.1 million jobs, according to the U.S.
International Trade Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Tampa at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 