-- California Ballot Spending Led by Munger, Steyer, Joseph
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-08-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/california-ballot-spending-led-by-munger-steyer-joseph.html
More than a third of the $118
million raised for and against 11 ballot measures facing
Californians in November comes from just three people.  San Francisco hedge-fund executive Thomas Steyer has poured
$21.9 million into boosting business taxes, according to
campaign finance records. Molly Munger, the daughter of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Vice Chairman Charles Munger, has put
$13.8 million into a tax increase for schools. George Joseph,
chairman and founder of  Mercury General Corp. (MCY) , has plowed $8
million into a change in auto-insurance pricing.  “There are so many different things to be worried about
with money in politics,” said Raphael Sonenshein, executive
director of the Edmund G. “Pat” Brown Institute of Public
Affairs at  California State University , Los Angeles.  There are campaigns fighting over labeling genetically
modified food, state budget rules, union dues, repeal of the
death penalty, sex trafficking, changing the three-strikes law
and Senate redistricting. It’s the longest list of ballot
questions in a single California election since 2008.  “It may be a little bit less worrisome with individuals
than with faceless institutions,” Sonenshein said. “But it
means we are subjected to the vagaries of the personal
philosophical interests of wealthy individuals.”  So far, campaign fundraising lags behind the $147 million
spent on the November 2010 ballot questions, according to data
compiled by MapLight, a nonpartisan research organization based
in Berkeley.  Same-Sex Initiative  The record for spending on ballot measures was set in 2008,
when $477.7 million was raised, including $107 million for a
measure to end same-sex marriages in  California , according to
the National Institute on Money in State Politics, based in
Helena,  Montana .  The biggest brawl this year, at least in terms of spending,
is an effort to require labeling of genetically modified foods.
Companies including  Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest seed
producer,  DuPont Co. (DD) , the biggest U.S chemical maker by sales,
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the world’s largest snack-food maker,  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s
Nestle USA and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  have given $25 million to defeat
the proposal.  Supporters, such as  Mercola.com LLC , a closely held
distributor of vitamins and nutrition products, and other
health- and organic-food producers have collected $2 million for
the campaign in favor.  Governor’s Tax  Labor and teachers unions have raised more than $18 million
to help pass Governor  Jerry Brown ’s initiative to temporarily
raise income and sales taxes, according to records with the
California Secretary of State and data compiled by MapLight.  Brown’s plan would boost the  state sales tax , already the
highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent from 7.25 percent. The
proposal would also increase rates on income starting at
$250,000, with those making $1 million or more, now taxed at
10.3 percent, raised to 13.3 percent, the most of any state.  Brown and Democrats are counting on the tax increase to
provide $5.6 billion to the state budget for the fiscal year
that began July 1. If voters reject the measure, $6.1 billion
will be automatically cut from state spending -- $5.5 billion
coming from schools, enough to pay for 15 days of classes.  Munger, a civil rights attorney in  Los Angeles , is
financing a rival initiative that would increase taxes on
incomes of $7,316 or more, from 0.4 percent for the lowest
earners to 2.2 percent for individuals making more than $2.5
million a year.  Munger Plan  It would raise $10 billion annually for 12 years and devote
30 percent of the additional revenue to pay school-bond debt for
the first four years. For the remaining eight years, all the
money would go to education.  “California is a huge state and it requires an investment
of several million dollars to even get on the voters’ radar
screen, and the forces that can usually make that kind of
investment are labor unions and corporate interests,” said
Nathan Ballard, a spokesman for Munger’s campaign. “When the
altruistic individual like  Molly Munger  or Tom Steyer steps up
and decides to invest in a ballot measure with the aim to
improve public policy, that move should be applauded.”  Steyer, chairman of hedge fund Farallon Capital Management
LLC, which had $19.2 billion under management as of Dec. 31,
according to a government filing, is backing a measure to
require out-of-state businesses to figure their California taxes
solely on their sales in the state.  Companies are now allowed to cut their taxes by using a
formula that factors in their property and workforce in the most
populous state.  Alternate Method  Supporters say eliminating the alternate method would
increase revenue about $1 billion annually, with half earmarked
for the general fund and half for energy-efficiency programs.  Steyer didn’t respond to a telephone call requesting
comment.  Mercury Insurance’s Joseph is helping finance a campaign
that would allow auto insurers to prices based on how long a
driver has maintained continuous coverage. His Los Angeles-based
company spent $15.8 million in 2010 on a similar measure that
voters rejected.  Joseph didn’t respond to a telephone call to his office
seeking comment.  Labor unions have raised $10 million to defeat a ballot
initiative that would limit their ability to raise and spend
member dues on political activities. The almost $4 million
collected to pass the measure has come mostly from a handful of
wealthy men, including Munger’s brother, Charles, and Thomas Siebel, the founder of San Mateo-based Siebel Systems, acquired
by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  in 2006.  “If you end up thinking that this is a poorly thought-out
idea from some dilettante, then you vote no,” Cal State’s
Sonenshein said. “The California ballot is strewn with examples
of how easy it is to get on the ballot and how hard it is to
win. The voters are not stupid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  