-- California Lawmakers in Deal to Curb Pensions, Brown Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-08-28T20:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/california-s-brown-says-deal-reached-to-curb-public-pension-cost.html
California lawmakers and Governor
 Jerry Brown  reached a last-minute deal to curtail public-
employee pension costs in what may be the broadest overhaul to
the benefits in more than a decade.  The accord calls for new workers to cover half of the cost
of their benefits and seeks the same savings from current
workers, through bargaining with unions, Brown said. It calls
for a first-time cap on payouts for most new workers and a raise
in the age at which they can retire. It also would crack down on
abuses such as pension spiking and double dipping.  Brown, a Democrat, wants to cut pension benefits and curb
the abuses before he asks voters in November to increase income
and sales taxes. A weak recovery from the longest recession
since the 1930s reduced job prospects and retirement benefits
for most nongovernment workers, churning up a backlash against
the pay and benefits of public employees nationwide.  “This is a major step,” Brown, 74, told reporters in  Los
Angeles  today. “It took moving heaven and earth to get this
far. Is the end of the story? No.”  Democrats who control the state Legislature have set a vote
on the package for Aug. 31, the two-year session’s last day.  Capping Payments  Retirement payments to most new workers would be based on
wages capped at about $110,000 a year, or $132,000 for those not
covered by the federal Social Security system. The  proposal  also
increases the minimum  retirement age  by at least two years for
all new public employees and reduces the basis for calculating
pension benefits.  “It’s important to note that employees are making
sacrifices,” Brown said. “It’s not easy. We’ve had to make
some cutbacks.”  The agreement also takes aim at abusive practices, barring
pension spiking, where a future retirement payments are inflated
by manipulating overtime, unused vacation and special
compensation. It also would limit double dipping, when a retiree
collecting benefits takes another government job. And it would
ban workers from buying service credit to boost their payouts.  “We’re outraged that a Democratic governor and Democratic
Legislature are taking a  wrecking ball  to retirement security
for teachers, firefighters, school employees, and police
officers,” said Dave Low, chairman of Californians for
Retirement Security. The group represents 1.5 million public
workers.  Republican Support  Asked about union opposition, Brown said he “hopes” it
doesn’t doom the deal. He said that many Republican lawmakers
expressed support for elements of his proposal, so some may
support the agreement he reached with legislative Democrats.  “It’s hard to get reductions,” Brown said. “Nobody likes
to go backwards. Nobody likes to sacrifice.”  The agreement omits Brown’s proposal to create a new type
of pension, combining elements of a 401(k) savings plan common
among nongovernment employers with conventional defined-benefit
systems that guarantee payments for life. Such a plan would have
spread to workers some of the market risk now borne by
taxpayers, who must make up for pension-investment shortfalls.  Brown is relying on labor support for his proposal on the
November ballot to temporarily boost the  state sales tax ,
already the highest in the U.S., to 7.5 percent from 7.25
percent. He also wants to increase rates on income starting at
$250,000, with those making $1 million or more, now taxed at
10.3 percent, raised to 13.3 percent, the most of any state.  Tax Strategy  Brown and Democrats are counting on the tax increase to
provide $5.6 billion to the state budget for the fiscal year
that began July 1. If voters reject the measure, $6.1 billion
will be automatically cut from state spending -- $5.5 billion
coming from schools, enough to pay for 15 days of classes.  “If voters think that legislators have made a serious
policy change, then the chances for the tax increase improve,”
 Jack Pitney , who teaches politics at  Claremont McKenna College 
in Claremont, California, said yesterday. “But if they think it
is nothing but window dressing, then chances get a lot worse.”  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , the
largest pension in the U.S. with $239.6 billion of assets, has
called a special meeting tomorrow and the next day to discuss
the package and detail how much it could curb taxpayer costs.
The system has about 1.6 million beneficiaries.  Rising retiree obligations are straining the budgets of
states such as California and cities across the U.S. still
grappling with income- and sales-tax revenue slammed by the
recession, which ended more than three years ago.  California ’s state pensions in 2010 had about 81 percent of
what they needed to cover the benefits they promised, down from
87 percent in the previous year, according to an annual study by
Bloomberg Rankings. The median for all states was 75 percent,
the data show.  “I think this puts the lie to those critics who say we’re
not working to fix California’s problems,” Brown said. “We’ve
lived beyond our means and the chickens are coming home to
roost.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  