-- Canada Second Quarter Financial Statistics Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-08-28T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/canada-second-quarter-financial-statistics-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s financial statistics report for the second quarter
released by  Statistics Canada .  Canadian corporations earned $71.9 billion in operating profits
in the second quarter, down 4.9% from the previous quarter. This
decrease follows two consecutive quarterly increases.  Canadian corporations earned $71.9 billion in operating profits
in the second quarter, down 4.9% from the previous quarter. This
decrease follows two consecutive quarterly increases.
Operating profits decreased in 15 of 22 industries. The
manufacturing and oil and gas industries led the decline,
followed by the insurance industry.  In the non-financial sector, operating profits declined 5.0% to
$52.2 billion in the second quarter, following a 5.1% decrease
the previous quarter. Much of this decrease came from the
manufacturing and the oil and gas industries. In contrast, the
information and cultural industries and the  mining industry  each
registered a slight growth in profits.  In the financial sector, operating profits decreased 4.6% to
$19.7 billion, following a 20.1% gain in the first quarter. Most
of the decline in the second quarter came from the insurance
industry.  On a year-over-year basis, operating profits for Canadian
corporations were 1.5% higher in the second quarter than in the
second quarter of 2011. Profits declined 0.9% in the non-
financial sector, while they rose 8.6% in the financial sector.  Non-financial sector  Operating profits in manufacturing declined 9.8% to $12.2
billion in the second quarter.  Overall, 8 of the 13 manufacturing industries reported decreases,
led by primary metal manufacturers and petroleum and coal
products manufacturers. These declines were tempered by
increased profits for  motor vehicle  and parts manufacturers and
air, rail and ship products manufacturers.  Profits for primary metal manufacturers fell 51.8% to $760.5
million between the first and second quarters. The decline was
mainly a result of weakening base metal prices, increased
competition from steel imports and the European slowdown.  Profits for petroleum and coal products manufacturers declined
18.1% to $3.3 billion. The main factors were a drop in the price
of coal, lower production volumes as a result of refinery
shutdowns as well as lower crude petroleum exports.  Profits for motor vehicle and parts manufacturers rose 30.6% to
$965.1 million, as the industry continued to recover from supply
chain disruptions caused by the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan .  Profits for air, rail and ship products manufacturers more than
doubled to $541.4 million.  In the oil and gas industry, profits fell 31.0% to $2.7 billion.
This industry experienced lower  oil prices  in the second quarter
and an increased price gap between Canadian crude and the North
American benchmark for crude, West Texas Intermediate.  Profits for information and cultural industries rose 6.6% to
$5.1 billion. Profits in telecommunications accounted for most
of this increase, rising 8.5% to $3.7 billion.  Mining profits increased 8.1% to $2.1 billion on the strength of
increased production volumes that occurred despite lower
commodity prices.  Retailers’ profits edged down 0.8% to $4.0 billion, while
wholesalers’ profits declined 1.1% to $5.5 billion.  Financial sector  Most of the decline in the financial sector came from the
 insurance industry , where profits fell 30.0% to $2.7 billion.  The decrease in the second quarter was led by life insurers,
whose profits declined 60.5% to $773.3 million in the wake of
higher actuarial liabilities adjustments.  Profits for depository credit intermediaries increased 1.5% to
$9.9 billion.  Note to readers
Quarterly financial statistics are compiled using financial
information provided by enterprises that derive this data from
their financial statements. Starting on January 1, 2011,
Canadian publicly accountable enterprises are required to
replace Canadian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(CGAAP) with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
when preparing their financial statements for fiscal years
starting on or after January 1, 2011. Canadian private
enterprises are required to replace CGAAP by Accounting
Standards for Private Enterprises or IFRS. The adoption of new
accounting standards by some enterprises since the beginning of
2011 may affect comparability with prior periods.  Quarterly profit numbers referred to in this release are
seasonally adjusted and are in current dollars. The quarterly
financial estimates for the first quarter of 2012 have been
revised. For more information on seasonal adjustment, see
Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic trends.  Quarterly financial statistics for enterprises are based upon a
sample survey and represent the activities of all corporations
in  Canada , except those that are government controlled or not-
for-profit. An enterprise can be a single corporation or a
family of corporations under common ownership and/or control,
for which consolidated financial statements are produced.  Profits referred to in this analysis are operating profits
earned from normal business activities. For non-financial
industries, operating profits exclude interest and dividend
revenue and capital gains/losses whereas, for financial
industries, these are included, along with interest paid on
deposits.  Operating profits differ from net profits, which represent the
after-tax profits earned by corporations.  Aggregate balance sheet and income statement data for Canadian
corporations are now available through CANSIM. They are
available at the national level for 22 industry groupings.  The second quarter 2012 issue of the Quarterly Financial
Statistics for Enterprises (61-008-X, free) will be available
soon.  Financial statistics for enterprises for the third quarter will
be released on November 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  