-- Canada Dollar Matches Highest Level Since May as Crude Oil Gains
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-08-28T21:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/canada-dollar-appreciates-for-third-day-amid-gains-in-crude-oil.html
Canada ’s dollar gained for the third
day versus its U.S. counterpart amid an advance in crude oil,
the nation’s largest export.  The currency matched the strongest level since May as crude
inventories were forecast to drop, Hurricane Isaac approached
the Louisiana coast and a fire continued to burn at Venezuela’s
biggest refinery. The currency gained against its commodity-
exporting peers on speculation Canada will benefit from U.S.
economic growth as  China’s economy  falters, weakening the
outlook for Australia’s and New Zealand’s economies.  “The risk backdrop is still positive,”  George Davis ,
chief technical analyst at Royal  Bank of Canada ’s RBC Capital
Markets unit in Toronto, said in an e-mail. “There are some
cross flows behind the Canadian dollar strength, as well.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, climbed 0.3
percent to 98.82 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It
touched 98.43 cents, matching its high point on Aug. 21, the
strongest since May 3. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0119.  Davis said the break in the U.S. dollar below “short-term
support” at 98.84 cents attracted some selling interest in the
currency versus the Canadian dollar. Support refers to the lower
boundary of a trading range, where buy orders may be clustered.  Longer-term  government bonds  rose for a second day, pushing
the yield on Canada’s benchmark 10-year security down one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.80 percent. The yield
reached a record low 1.565 percent on July 23. The price of the
2.75 percent debt due June 2022 increased 7 cents to C$108.50.  Bond Auction  The Bank of Canada will auction tomorrow C$2.9 billion
($2.93 billion) of 1.5 percent bonds maturing in August 2015.
The previous auction of three-year bonds on June 13 drew an
average yield of 1.153 percent and a coverage ratio -- the
amount bid relative to the amount offered -- of 2.47 times,
compared with an average over the past five three-year auctions
of 2.46 times.  Canadian government bonds have returned 1.7 percent since
the start of the year, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data.  Finance ministers from the Group of Seven nations are
monitoring the risks posed by high  oil prices , according to a
Group of Seven joint statement issued today by the U.S. Treasury
Department. The G-7 nations called on oil-producing countries to
increase output and said they “stand ready to call upon the
 International Energy Agency  to take appropriate action to ensure
that the market is fully and timely supplied.”  Oil Rises  Futures on crude oil rose 0.9 percent to $96.33 a barrel in
New York. Futures advanced as much as 1.1 percent after the
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement reported
yesterday that 78 percent of crude production from the Gulf has
been shut in as Isaac approaches. Canada is the largest supplier
of energy products to the U.S., the world’s biggest economy.  “Crude oil is still posting plus-$96,”  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada (NA) , said in a telephone interview. “Any supply disruptions
from Isaac could put a bid to the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie also is being supported by money managers’
purchases of the currency to balance portfolios for month-end
amid gains in equity  indexes , Spitz said.  “There are reasons to want to be long the Canadian dollar
from a reserve diversification perspective,” he said. “Month-
end flows will be reasonable and will be biased for U.S. dollar
selling given the positive performance by most equity indices.”
Long positions are bets a currency will strengthen.  GDP Report  Economists predict  Statistics Canada  will report on Aug. 31
that  gross domestic product  expanded for a fourth straight
quarter.  Canada’s dollar rose against a majority of its most-traded
counterparts as risk appetite strengthened. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will give a speech on Aug. 31 at an
annual economics conference in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , which
investors are awaiting to gauge the outlook for monetary policy.  The greenback touched a seven-week low against the euro
last week after minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
most recent meeting showed many policy makers favor a third
round of large-scale debt purchases under quantitative easing to
stimulate growth.  “The Canadian dollar has a strong correlation with
equities, confirming our view that the most important risk for
the currency is the FOMC decision on QE3,”  Camilla Sutton ,
chief currency strategist at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotiabank
unit in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients today. “That leaves
the Canadian dollar particularly vulnerable to  Jackson Hole .”  Canada’s dollar rose for a third day against the New
Zealand currency, reaching the strongest since June. The South
Pacific currency weakened on speculation the Chinese economy,
the country’s second largest export market, may be faltering.
Data this week may show Chinese manufacturing stagnated.  The loonie strengthened 0.8 percent to 79.52 Canadian cents
versus the so-called kiwi. It rose for a fourth day versus the
Australian currency, trading 0.2 percent higher to C$1.0255.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  