-- Carrefour CEO Reverses Five-Year Stock Drop Before Giving Plan
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-08-28T22:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/carrefour-ceo-reverses-five-year-stock-drop-before-giving-plan.html
Carrefour SA (CA) ’s new chief executive
officer has started to reverse a five-year slump in the world’s
second-largest retailer even before outlining his strategy.  The shares have risen 15 percent in Georges Plassat’s first
three months in office,  outperforming  the Stoxx 600 Index for
the first time since 2007, after declining 42 percent in three
years under his predecessor Lars Olofsson.  With Plassat set to present his plan after first-half
earnings tomorrow, investors including Jerome Forneris at Banque
Martin Maurel in Marseille are buying more shares in the
Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based retailer, betting Plassat can
succeed where others have failed.  “Plassat understands marketing and what touches the French
consumer,” said Forneris, who helps manage $8 billion at Martin
Maurel, in a phone interview, calling the shares “very cheap.”
Forneris said he expects possible announcements on management
changes, pricing and plans to exit certain countries. “If we do
have good news, the stock could gain 15 to 20 percent in a
month,” he added.  Carrefour halted a 1.5 billion-euro ($1.9 billion) plan to
remodel some of its largest European stores in March two months
after announcing Plassat was replacing Olofsson as chairman and
CEO. Yet since Plassat took the helm on May 23, he has limited
himself, publicly at least, to diagnosing the retailer’s
shortcomings and hinting at possible solutions.  Change in Philosophy  Carrefour has too much  debt , costs that are too high,
particularly at its head office, and an inefficient
organizational structure, the CEO said June 18. The retailer may
exit some countries and cede control in others where local
competition is better placed after selling a stake in a Greek
joint venture, he said at the time. The company said yesterday
it will close two stores in  Singapore .  Plassat’s brief tenure has led to “a complete change in
management’s philosophy,” according to Bernard Delattre,
president of Altimeo Asset Management in Paris, who holds
Carrefour shares.  “The pragmatic person has arrived and will make pragmatic
decisions to please the company and shareholders,” said
Delattre in a phone interview. Plassat, who “visits stores
unlike Olofsson who sat in his ivory tower,” understands that
consumers are looking for low prices all of the time on basic
items like milk or pasta, not short term promotions, he said.  Carrefour fell 2 percent to 16 euros at the close of
trading in Paris yesterday, giving the company a market value of
10.9 billion euros, down 70 percent from almost  37 billion euros 
at the end of 2007. The market capitalization of  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, has increased more than 20
percent in a similar period.  Enormous Opportunity  Delattre expects the French retailer to reach 25 euros to
35 euros a share eventually, though he declined to say when.  “Carrefour is losing market share every day,” he said.
“The day when that reverses, the stock will rebound strongly.
There’s an enormous opportunity in Carrefour shares.”  Carrefour may report first-half current operating income
that fell to 706 million euros from 772 million euros, according
to the  median  of four analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Twelve analysts recommend buying Carrefour shares, 13 say hold
them and 14 suggest selling. The average  analyst rating  has
improved to 2.95 out of 5 from 2.2 at the beginning of the year.  Plassat joined Carrefour from Vivarte SA, where he turned
an unprofitable shoemaker in 2000 into a company with sales of
more than 3 billion euros by 2010. He earlier served as CEO of
French supermarket operator  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA (CO)  and ran
Carrefour’s Spanish business.  Wait and See  While Plassat has a strong turnaround pedigree and
extensive experience in grocery retailing, some investors are
cautious of his prospects.  “There is no doubt about his competence,” said Amandine
Gerard, president of Financiere de L’Arc in Aix-en-Provence,
which oversees $235 million and doesn’t own Carrefour shares.
“But the economic situation and improving margins will take
time. It’s a stock we’re watching closely.”  Matthieu Giuliani, who helps manage $4 billion at Banque
Palatine SA in Paris, said he isn’t tempted to buy Carrefour
shares after multiple failures to revive the retailer. Plassat
is Carrefour’s fourth CEO in eight years.  “There have been many strategic errors,” Giuliani said.
“We’ll wait and see before making any bets.”  To be sure, Plassat has acknowledged the size of the task
in hand. The CEO said at a shareholder meeting in June that he
needs at least three years to “relaunch” the ailing retailer
as  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on  consumer spending  and it
struggles to attract shoppers to its largest stores.  “Plassat is a positive electroshock for the market and for
employees,” said Emmanuel Soupre, who helps oversee $5.5
billion including Carrefour shares at Neuflize Private Assets in
Paris. “There haven’t yet been big changes, but the market has
come back to the shares because it is giving credit to Plassat.
We think he is capable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  