-- Catalonia Seeks $6.3 Billion From Spain Regional Rescue Fund
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-28T16:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/catalonia-to-seek-5-billion-euros-from-spanish-aid-fund.html
Catalonia will tap a national rescue
fund after  Spain ’s most indebted region was shut out of
financial markets, suffering the type of funding squeeze that
led  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek international bailouts.  Catalonia, the largest of Spain’s 17 autonomous regions,
will seek 5 billion euros ($6.3 billion), almost a third of the
18 billion-euro fund created in July by the government of Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy . Valencia was the first to tap the fund
with a request on July 20.  Spain’s ability to avoid a broader bailout depends on the
government getting the regions to reduce their shortfalls, which
were one of the reasons the country missed its budget-deficit
target in 2011. The regions, which control more than a third of
public spending, are increasingly being shunned by investors,
mirroring the dynamic of the euro-region debt crisis.  “This is a milestone because it’s a formal recognition
that Catalonia doesn’t have the money it needs,” said Javier Diaz-Gimenez, an economics professor at IESE business school in
 Madrid . “It shows how weak Spain’s arrangement has become for
its regional finances.”  Deepening Recession  Data today showed Spain’s recession deepened in the second
quarter, with  the economy  shrinking 0.4 percent from the
previous three months.  Consumer spending  fell 1 percent and
 government spending  declined 0.7 percent.  Spain’s 10-year borrowing costs reached a euro-era record
of 7.75 percent on July 25. The yield has since come down to
6.47 percent on expectations that the  European Central Bank  may
start buying the country’s debt. Spain still  pays  513 basis
points more to borrow for 10 years than  Germany .  While Rajoy has introduced the most aggressive austerity
measures in Spain in more than 30 years, the government risks
missing its 2012 fiscal targets without the regions curtailing
their shortfalls.  A report this month by the Fedea research institute in
Madrid said that the regions won’t keep their budget promises
for this year. It forecast deficits in the regions may reach 4
percent of GDP, compared with 3.3 percent last year and a target
of 1.5 percent.  Government Pressure  Rajoy’s eight month-old government has bailed the regions
out several times this year to prevent any default, transferring
funds to them and organizing as much as 41 billion euros in bank
loans to allow them to pay suppliers and redeem bonds.  “Catalonia can’t face the redemptions it has at the
moment, it is the big problem in this country,” Rajoy said
today. “Spain will help Catalonia as it has done before and
we’ll discuss with them everything that needs to be discussed.”  The liquidity support for the regions has burdened state
finances, and data last month showed that the central
government’s deficit surged to 4.04 percent of GDP in the first
half of 2012, exceeding its full-year target.  The regions started losing access to  capital markets  in
2010, prompting some to sell securities known as patriot bonds
to their citizens. Andreu Mas-Colell, Catalonia’s finance chief,
had called for state guarantees of bond issuance since August
2010.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis De Guindos said in March that
the central government was considering backing the regions’ debt
issuance. Four months later, the government created the 18
billion-euro bailout fund, with 6 billion euros coming from a
loan from the state-owned lottery and the rest from the
Treasury.  The 17 regions face redemptions of about 15 billion euros
in the second half of this year, according to data from the
Budget Ministry. They aim to run a combined budget deficit of
1.5 percent of GDP, or about 15 billion euros, a target Moody’s
Investors Service says they will probably miss. The goal for
next year, when the government forecasts the economy will still
be shrinking, is 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  