-- Caterpillar Directors Sued for Alleged Waste of Assets
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-08-28T15:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/caterpillar-directors-sued-for-alleged-waste-of-assets.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
largest maker of construction and mining machines, was sued by
investors who allege directors wasted corporate assets by not
ensuring that executive-incentive plans were tax-deductible.  Board members also wrongly enriched themselves by taking
compensation that couldn’t be deducted, and the company made
insufficient disclosures to stockholders,  lawyers  for a
Philadelphia asbestos workers’ pension fund and the Lansing,
Michigan, Police and Fire Retirement System said in two lawsuits
filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  “There is no reason not to implement compliant
compensation plans” that save the Peoria, Illinois-based
company tax money, the investors contend in court papers.  The investors ask for a  jury trial  and an order that
recipients return wrongly obtained compensation to the company.  Caterpillar, with $60.1 billion in sales last year, said
last week it opened a new diesel-excavator factory in Victoria,
Texas, and will sell the machinery in the U.S., Mexico and  South
America .  The pension funds also challenged in the lawsuit the cash
value, including  stock options , senior officials could
potentially receive -- as much as $87.2 million each under a
long-term incentive plan.  “This astronomical number, if it is a true maximum, shocks
the conscience as to the amount of corporate waste the board may
commit,” plaintiffs’ lawyers said in court documents.  “Our normal practice is to not discuss pending
litigation,”  Jim Dugan , a Caterpillar spokesman who hadn’t seen
the complaints, said in an e-mailed message.  The cases are City of Lansing Police and Fire Retirement
System v. Caterpillar, 12cv1076, and Asbestos Workers
Philadelphia Pension Fund v. Caterpillar, 12cv1077, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  