-- Centro to Fix Up Malls as It Puts Survival Battle in Past
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-08-29T01:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/centro-plans-to-fix-up-malls-as-it-puts-survival-battle-in-past.html
Centro Retail Australia (CRF) , formed last
year from the restructure of  Centro Properties Group , will focus
on fixing up its shopping centers, which were left largely
unimproved during a four-year battle against bankruptcy.  The company will spend at least A$300 million ($311
million) in the next five years to redevelop and expand some of
the 83 malls it owns or operates, Chief Executive Officer Steven
Sewell said in a telephone interview from Sydney yesterday.
Centro Retail, which began trading on the Australian stock
exchange on Dec. 5, yesterday reported a net loss of A$222.9
million for the period from then until June 30, mostly due to
costs associated with the restructure.  “Over the last 4 1/2 years, there’s been very little, less
than A$50 million, spent on refurbishment or expansion,” said
Sewell, who took over as the CEO in February. “There’s a very
large degree of unlocked potential within those properties.
That’s the key focus.”  Investors and creditors of Centro Properties and its funds
in November approved its plan to erase A$2.9 billion of debt
accumulated during a U.S. buying spree in 2006 and 2007. That
allowed senior lenders, mostly  hedge funds , to exchange the debt
they held for ownership of almost three-quarters of the new
entity.  The hedge funds have mostly sold out and now account for a
fifth of shareholders, Sewell said.  Centro Retail  shares  rose 0.5 percent at A$2.11 as of 10:47
a.m. in Sydney, a 4.5 percent discount to the value of its
assets as of June 30.  ‘Juicy’ Opportunities  “There are some juicy development opportunities within
their existing portfolio, so this is a smart strategy,” said
Stuart Cartledge, Melbourne-based managing director of Phoenix
Portfolios, which owns Centro Retail shares. “It’s also lower
risk by virtue of the fact that they know and understand those
centers.”  The company, which yesterday reported underlying earnings
of A$123.2 million in its first seven months of operations, has
no intentions of developing new malls, Sewell said. It plans to
acquire as much as A$1.2 billion of properties that are held in
its managed syndicates in the next seven years, if investors
choose to exit them as their terms end, Sewell said. The group
had investments of A$487 million in 26 syndicates, which it also
manages, as of June 30.  Centro Retail is considering rebranding itself and its
shopping centers to drop the Centro name, spokesman Mario
Papaleo said by telephone today. The new brand will be announced
in December, the Australian newspaper  reported  today, citing
Sewell.  Potential Partnerships  Centro Retail, which in May sold 50 percent stakes in three
malls for A$690.4 million to Perron Group, is in talks with
other investors on potential future partnerships, Sewell said,
adding that the company is able to fund its planned
redevelopments with existing cash and debt facilities.  The company yesterday said asset sales had allowed it to
repay part of its debt and reach an agreement with lenders to
raise its debt facility to A$1.8 billion from A$1 billion, split
between three- and five-year maturities.  Centro Retail expects to be in a position in the second
half of 2013 to seek an investment-grade  credit rating , which
will give it access to longer-dated debt than is available from
Australian banks, Sewell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  