-- China Eastern Airlines Joins Airbus Clean Jet-Fuel Network Plans
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-08-28T14:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/china-eastern-airlines-joins-airbus-clean-jet-fuel-network-plans.html
China Eastern Airlines Corp. will
join Airbus SAS plans to build clean jet-fuel capacity in the
world’s fastest growing major economy to curb emissions.  The airline, based in  Shanghai , will tie-up with a group of
growers, distributors and government agencies that Airbus is
uniting to help make clean fuel commercially viable in China,
said  Justin Dubon , a spokesman for Toulouse-based Airbus.  “We’re trying to help speed up the industrialization
process and use of alternative fuels by airlines,” Dubon said
today in a phone interview. “Our main challenge is producing
enough sustainable feedstock to convert into adequate quantities
of alternative  aviation fuel  for daily use.”  Airbus and  Boeing Co. (BA)  are among airplane producers building
supply networks for alternative fuel in an aviation industry
that makes up 2 percent of world carbon-dioxide output. Airbus
in March joined a group including Virgin Australia to study use
of eucalyptus mallee trees for fuel, and has an agreement with
Brazil’s Embraer SA to collaborate on aviation biofuels.  China’s Tsinghua University joined the network in the
country, Airbus said yesterday. Tsinghua will help select
Chinese feedstocks to make fuel including from sources such as
used cooking oil and algae. From 2013, the partners will seek to
build production to commercially viable levels, Airbus said.  Airbus and Air Canada made North America’s first “perfect
flight” with an Airbus A319 in June, using the most efficient
aircraft, biofuel and lightweight cabin equipment to cut energy
and carbon emissions to a minimum. Airbus, with biofuel capacity
in  Latin America , Australia, Europe and the  Middle East , plans a
chain of suppliers and producers for every continent this year.  Airlines have won approval from the U.S. technical
standards body to fly passenger planes with a 50-50 blend of
petroleum-based fuel and biofuel.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  