-- China to Lend Egypt $200 Million as Leaders Meet in Beijing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-28T13:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/china-to-lend-egypt-200-million-as-leaders-meet-in-beijing.html
China  promised a $200 million loan
to  Egypt  and the two sides signed deals in agriculture, the
environment and telecommunications as Egyptian President Mohamed
Mursi sought to boost ties in a trip to Beijing.  China Development Bank pledged the credit to the  National
Bank of Egypt , according to a deal that was signed after Mursi
met with his counterpart, President  Hu Jintao , in Beijing today.  The agreement came on the first leg of Mursi’s two-nation
trip that will also include  Iran , a stop that has raised concern
in the U.S. and Israel about Egypt’s foreign policy. Mursi has
signaled a foreign policy that may shift away from the U.S. ties
built by  Hosni Mubarak , his predecessor who was ousted in a mass
uprising last year.  “Since taking office, Mr. President has chosen China as
one of his first countries to visit and this fully shows that
your country attaches great importance to the desire to develop
relations with China,” Hu said when the two leaders met in
Beijing today, according to a pool report.  Egypt hopes to boost Chinese investment to $3 billion from
the current $500 million, the state-run Al-Ahram newspaper
reported today, citing Hassan Malek, head of a business
delegation accompanying Mursi. Egypt wants to sign eight
agreements with China, offering investment projects in
agriculture, tourism and infrastructure, the report said.  Signed Agreements  No details were available about the  China Development Bank 
loan. Other agreements signed by the two sides focused on issues
including agriculture, the environment and tourism. China also
agreed to provide Egypt with police cars, according to the
agreements.  A commentary published yesterday by China’s state-run
Xinhua News Agency said the two sides have maintained “steady
and robust cooperation despite Egypt’s social turmoil.” Trade
rose to $8.8 billion last year, the report said.  It said that China has extended its “helping hand” to
push economic recovery in Egypt. It said the two sides want to
work together on a range of international issues including the
conflict in Syria, where China has vetoed UN resolutions aimed
at speeding up Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s departure.  “Egypt could be a bridge for China to strengthen
cooperation with the whole Arab world and the African continent
within the UN and other international organizations,” the
Xinhua commentary said.  Non-Aligned Summit  In Iran, Mursi is scheduled to address the Non-Aligned
Movement summit on Aug. 30 and will remain in the country for
only a few hours, his office has said. The trip is the first by
an Egyptian president to Tehran since the 1979  Islamic
Revolution . Ties between Egypt and Iran since then have been run
through intermediaries.  Israel and the U.S. have pressed Mursi not to attend the
summit, arguing that it could send a signal of legitimacy to the
government of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  as it remains locked
in a dispute with the U.S. and its allies over  Iran’s nuclear
program . Egyptian officials have downplayed the trip, whose main
purpose is the handing over of the NAM leadership to the
Iranians,Yasser Ali, Mursi’s spokesman, said in e-mailed
comments.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  