-- China Widens Renewables Lead Over U.S. in Ernst & Young Ranking
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-08-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/china-widens-renewables-lead-over-u-s-in-ernst-young-ranking.html
China  widened its lead over the U.S.
in a renewable energy ranking compiled by consultant Ernst &
Young that gauges the attractiveness to investors of wind and
solar power projects in those countries.  The U.S., weighed down by “uncertainty over the country’s
long-term renewable energy strategy,” dropped 1.5 points to 66
in the quarterly renewables “attractiveness index,” E&Y said
today in an e-mailed report. That pushed it into a tie for
second with  Germany , trailing China’s score of 70.2.  “The upcoming elections have led to an understandable
slowdown in the decision-making process in the U.S.,” Ernst &
Young Global Cleantech Leader Gil Forer said. “Germany is
pushing ahead with its ambitious renewable energy agenda.”  U.S. wind power project developers face the expiration at
the end of the year of a tax credit benefiting the industry.
Americans vote in presidential elections in November and
Congress has dragged its heels over renewing the incentive.  China dropped 0.2 points from the last report in May. While
the government has cut incentives to solar projects, it also
raised its target for solar installations to 21 gigawatts by
2015 and 50 gigawatts by 2020, up from 15 gigawatts and 20
gigawatts, E&Y said. Wind power has been curtailed by problems
in gaining access to the grid in China, according to the report.  India  placed fourth, the U.K. fifth, France and Italy tied
for sixth, and  Canada , Japan and Brazil rounded out the top 10.
E&Y’s assessment criteria include regulations and planning
barriers, as well as access to capital, land and power grids.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 