-- China Retailers Lose Steam, Deepening Wen’s Challenges
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-29T08:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/china-retailers-lose-steam-deepening-wen-s-challenges.html
China ’s retailers from clothing to
computers are reporting weaker sales growth, undermining Premier
 Wen Jiabao ’s goal of relying more on consumer spending for
expansion as the economy cools.  Passenger-vehicle sales trailed analysts’ estimates in July.
Sportswear seller Li Ning Co. shut 1,200 stores in the first
half and department-store chain  Parkson Retail Group Ltd. (3368) ’s
same-store sales rose at less than a quarter the pace of a year
earlier.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493)  said it would
report a first-half loss on lower sales.  The reports show an extra drag on the second-largest
economy after  export growth  almost stalled in July and factory
output missed forecasts. The year’s fastest decline in
industrial companies’ earnings and a stock market at a three-
year low mean income gains may slow, giving consumers less money
to spend and boosting odds Wen will add stimulus.  “The pressure on retail sales is growing bigger and
bigger,” said Shen Jianguang, Hong Kong-based chief  Asia 
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. “When exports are
fragile and investment is weak, if companies started to reduce
their production or workforce, how can it be possible for
 consumer spending  to stay strong?”  Retail sales  missed economists’ forecasts in three of the
last four months and Mizuho said they will stay weak. Sales
increased 13.1 percent in July from a year earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics said Aug. 9, compared with the median 13.5
percent estimate of 32 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1 percent to the lowest
since Feb. 2, 2009, after companies’ reports of profit declines,
wiping out yesterday’s gain that was the biggest in three weeks.  Government Spending  The official data include government purchases and aren’t
adjusted for inflation or broken down by consumer or government
spending. Fiscal spending is rising at a faster clip than retail
sales, up 37 percent in July from a year earlier, according to
the Ministry of Finance. After adjusting for prices, retail
sales rose 12.2 percent in July and 12.1 percent in June, the
NBS said.  “Consumers have generally become more conservative in
their spending, especially on certain higher-end discretionary
products,” Natural Beauty Bio-Technology Ltd., which sells
skin-care items in China, said in an Aug. 16 filing with the
Hong Kong stock exchange.  Corporate profits and stock markets may be keys to the
direction of consumer spending. China’s industrial profits fell
in July by the most this year, an Aug. 27 government report
showed. A record number of Hong Kong-listed companies since the
start of June have predicted lower profit or a loss for a
specific period, based on data compiled by  Bloomberg News .
Shanghai’s stock benchmark is close to the lowest level since
February 2009.  Asian Slowdown  Policy makers across Asia may need to consider more
stimulus as  Europe ’s debt crisis hits exports and confidence.
South Korea’s current-account surplus rose to a record in July
as imports declined, a government report showed today.  In the U.S., the Commerce Department’s first revision to
second-quarter gross domestic product may show a gain of 1.7
percent compared with an initially reported 1.5 percent increase,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. In the first three
months of the year, the economy expanded 2 percent.  The  Federal Reserve  releases its Beige Book survey of
economic conditions in 12 U.S. districts, two weeks ahead of the
Sept. 12-13 policy meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee .  In Europe, Italy’s June retail sales rose 0.4 percent from
the previous month and data on German inflation are due, while
 Brazil ’s central bank may be poised to cut  interest rates  for a
ninth straight meeting.  Wage Headwinds  “Consumer spending is decided critically by income, and as
we can see, China’s industrial profits are falling at a faster
speed in July, which means more headwinds for employee
compensation, wages and bonuses,” said Zhang Zhiwei, chief
China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong . “For non-
wage income such as investment income from property and stock
markets, you don’t have to be an expert to tell that most people
are actually losing money, so overall consumer disposable income
is actually very weak.”  Retail sales growth may slow another one or two months
before a possible rebound next quarter, Zhang said.  Wen signaled in March that leaders are determined to cut
reliance on exports and  capital spending  in favor of consumption,
saying in a speech to legislators that “expanding domestic
demand, particularly consumer demand, which is essential to
ensuring China’s long-term, steady, and robust economic
development, is the focus of our economic work this year.”  Wang Tao , China economist at UBS AG in Hong Kong, said in a
report yesterday that “if protecting growth is a more important
short-term goal, rebalancing will have to wait.”  Stimulus Efforts  The People’s Bank of China cut  interest rates  in June and
July for the first time since 2008 and has lowered banks’
reserve requirements three times starting in November.
Authorities have accelerated approval of projects and local
governments have announced trillions of  yuan  of investment-
spending goals in the next few years.  Shares of Parkson, based in Beijing with shares listed in
Hong Kong, fell 6.5 percent on Aug. 27, the most since October,
following the Aug. 24 report of slowing sales. Barclays Plc
analysts cut their rating on the company to “underweight” from
“overweight” and said earnings in the next 12 months are
likely to “remain lackluster.”  At Parkson’s seven-floor Beijing store located across the
street from the central bank’s headquarters, Li Ruidong said
yesterday that he’s cut back on shopping there and prefers low-
end malls to Parkson, whose luxury brands include Armani,
Cartier and Hermes.  Catching Up  “My salary can’t catch up with the rise in prices, and I
have a daughter to feed,” said Li, 39, a bank employee.  Zhang Hong, a 42-year-old housewife who lives near the
store, said she likes to try clothes on at Parkson, then
purchase the items online. “I only buy coffee and eat
McDonald’s here,” Zhang said.  Wholesale deliveries of passenger vehicles gained 11
percent to 1.12 million units in July, the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said Aug. 9, compared with the 1.16
million average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
Changchun-based FAW Car Co., which makes passenger cars with
Volkswagen AG, said yesterday it swung to a loss in the first
half as sales fell 35 percent.  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389)  of Hong Kong, the retail partner of
Swatch Group AG in China, said last week it expects sales growth
to slow in the second half as shoppers curb spending on luxury
watches.  Growth Engine  Consumer spending may still contribute more to expansion
than other parts of the economy. Compared with volatility in
exports and investment, consumption is still a “stable growth
engine,” said  Zhu Haibin , the chief China economist with
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Hong Kong.  Zhang Ping, the head of the National Development and Reform
Commission, China’s top economic-planning agency, said the
nation’s growth is stabilizing and policy measures are bearing
fruit, the official Xinhua News Agency reported today.  Some companies are counting on the government to aid
revenue. Trinity Ltd., the high-end menswear retailer that sells
Gieves & Hawkes and Cerruti in China, expects sales to
accelerate next year as authorities take steps to boost growth,
Managing Director Sunny Wong said Aug. 23. Parkson said China
has room to “further adjust its macroeconomic policies.”  At the same time, “ consumer confidence  has weakened as the
overall economic outlook is uncertain,” Zhu said. “The biggest
problem at present is weak domestic demand -- if policy efforts
can boost corporate sector investment and profitability,
consumption may come naturally.”  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Raymond Liu and Zheng Lifei in
Beijing, Brendan Murray in Sydney and James Mayger in  Tokyo .
Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  