-- China Lends Venezuela $4 Billion to Renew Fund, Chavez Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-08-28T21:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/china-lends-venezuela-4-billion-to-renew-fund-chavez-says-1-.html
China  Development Bank Corp. has
deposited $4 billion with a Venezuelan state-run institution as
part of the renewal of a bilateral investment fund, President
 Hugo Chavez  said.  Venezuela  will add another $2 billion to the fund from its
National Development Fund known as  Fonden  to continue investing
in infrastructure projects in the South American country.
Venezuela repays the loans to China with oil exports.  “A new tranche of the China-Venezuela fund has been
activated with $6 billion which is good news, our financing
system for works and projects,” Chavez said today during a
nationwide broadcast. “My appreciation goes out to China.”  China has lent Venezuela more than $36 billion since 2007
for investment in infrastructure projects including a railway in
the central plains of the oil producing nation and housing
projects. Venezuela currently sends about 640,000 barrels of oil
a day to China, of which 264,000 barrels is to repay the loans,
Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said in an interview with El
Universal on Aug. 15.  Venezuela is increasingly looking to China for credit to
fund development projects as  interest rates  in international
markets rise on perceived risk of Chavez’s heterodox economic
policies. The extra yield that investors demand to hold
Venezuelan debt over U.S. Treasuries is the highest of major
emerging market economies after Pakistan and Argentina.  Chinese companies including China National Petroleum Corp.,
Qingdao Haier Co. and Chery Automobile Co. operate in the
country and have benefited from the increased economic activity
from the loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  