-- Cisco’s Senior VP for Enterprise Sales Leaves Amid Restructuring
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-08-28T01:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/cisco-s-senior-vp-for-enterprise-sales-leaves-amid-restructuring.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  executive Paul Mountford, a senior vice president who ran the network-equipment
maker’s global sales to businesses, has left the company amid a
restructuring aimed at reducing market-share losses and cutting
costs.  Mountford made a “personal decision to return to the U.K.
to be with his family,” Ross Camp, a Cisco spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement. He had been with the San Jose,
California-based company for 16 years, recently overseeing its
emerging markets strategy before his promotion last year to lead
global enterprise sales.  Cisco Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  ordered a
management overhaul last year to stem profit-margin erosion and
win business lost to  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
and others. He has cut 7,800 jobs, reduced prices and eliminated
a council-based management structure that slowed decision-
making. Chambers says the moves have helped Cisco, the world’s
biggest maker of routers and switches that shuttle data traffic,
become more competitive.  Nick Adamo , a senior vice president in charge of sales to
telecommunications-service providers, will add the global
enterprise group to his responsibilities, bringing the two
divisions together under one manager.  “This will bring greater alignment and simplicity in how
we serve our service provider and enterprise customers,” Camp
said.  Mountford’s departure adds to a growing list of senior
executives who have left the company in recent years. Ned
Hooper, who ran mergers and acquisitions, resigned in June, a
year after his second-in-command, Charles Carmel, left. Former
senior vice president Tony Bates left to run Skype Technologies
SA in 2010.  -- Editors: Reed Stevenson, Stephen West  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  