-- McMahon Has Lead in Close Connecticut Senate Race, Poll Shows
-- B y   D o n   F r e d e r i c k
-- 2012-08-28T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/mcmahon-has-lead-in-close-connecticut-senate-race-poll-shows.html
Republican  Linda McMahon  leads in
Connecticut’s U.S. Senate race, with the former professional
wrestling executive benefiting from a narrower margin of support
for President  Barack Obama  in the state compared with four years
ago, according to a poll of likely voters.  McMahon, who lost a Senate bid two years ago, is ahead of
Democrat Chris Murphy, 49 percent to 46 percent, in the survey
released today by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac
University .  Poll Director Doug Schwartz, while terming the race “too
close to call,” said the poll results are “good news” for
McMahon in her bid to win the seat now held by Senator  Joe Lieberman , an independent.  Lieberman, who decided against seeking re-election,
caucuses with Democrats in the Senate and a McMahon win would
help Republicans in their bid to take control of the chamber.  Obama leads presumptive Republican presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney  in the fight for Connecticut’s seven electoral
votes, 52 percent to 45 percent.  Though Schwartz said the Republican national ticket
probably will come up short in Connecticut, which hasn’t voted
for the party’s presidential candidate since 1988, he said
Obama’s lead in the poll is “a far cry from his 23-point
victory” over  John McCain  in 2008.  Short Coattails  “This smaller than expected margin for Obama could affect
the Senate race,” Schwartz said. The Murphy campaign is hoping
to benefit from Obama’s coattails, but right now they are not
very long.”  McMahon, 63, who lost Connecticut’s 2010 Senate race to
Democrat  Richard Blumenthal  by 12 percentage points, “has
worked on her image in the last two years, and it shows,”
Schwartz said.  Her edge in the Quinnipiac poll “is due to her double-
digit lead among independent voters and being close among women,
a group she struggled with in her 2010 run,” he said.  The survey, conducted Aug. 22-26, shows 47 percent of
likely voters view McMahon favorably, while 35 percent have an
unfavorable opinion of the former World Wrestling Federation
chief executive.  Statewide Visibility  Murphy, 39, a U.S. House member serving his third term, may
be hindered by a lack of statewide visibility. He was rated
favorably by 38 percent in the poll and unfavorably by 30
percent, with 32 percent saying they hadn’t heard enough about
him to have an opinion. Only 18 percent said they lacked enough
information about McMahon to form an opinion.  With Democrats controlling the Senate 53-47, Republicans
need a net gain of at least three seats in November’s election
for a majority. They will need a four-seat pickup if Obama wins
re-election, because the vice president casts the tie-breaking
vote in the chamber.  In the presidential race in  Connecticut , Obama benefits
from a gender gap. He leads among women, 59 percent to 38
percent, while Romney has the advantage among men, 53 percent to
45 percent.  The poll shows 58 percent say the economy will be
“extremely important” to their vote in the presidential race,
and Romney is judged better able to do a good job on this issue
than Obama, 49 percent to 44 percent.  Medicare is viewed as “extremely important” in the
contest by 41 percent, and Obama has the advantage on this
issue: 51 percent say he would do a better job dealing with the
program compared with 41 percent for Romney.  The poll of 1,472 likely voters has an error margin for its
entire sample of plus-or-minus 2.6 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Frederick in Washington at 
 dfrederick1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  