-- Coal Greens Love Buoyed by Shale Gas Hydraulic Fracking
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-08-29T09:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/coal-greens-love-buoyed-by-shale-gas-hydrualic-fracking.html
The world’s most abundant  fossil
fuel  could be tapped without moving mountains, delivered without
trucks or trains and burned without greenhouse-gas emissions.  The technology to make this possible has been around for
decades. Underground coal gasification was pioneered by Sir
William Siemens in the 1860s to light London’s streets.  Vladimir Lenin  hailed the method in a 1913 article in Pravda for its
potential to rescue Russians from hazards of underground mines.  Despite its early boosters, the technology never caught on
in the U.S., mostly for cost reasons. Now the improvements in
seismic mapping and drilling that lit a fire under the U.S.
fracking boom may also spur development of a domestic coal gas
industry, proponents said.  “The shale gas revolution is opening doors for the coal
gas revolution,” said Richard Morse, director of coal and
carbon research at Stanford University in  Palo Alto , California.
“We knew it was there but couldn’t get it out in a cost-
effective way.”  The technology works like this: beds, or seams, of
underground coal are ignited, and the resulting combustible gas
is piped out for use in electricity generation or as a raw
material in chemical production.  The burn can be controlled by regulating the flow of
oxygen, so there’s slim chance of giving rise to another
Centralia, the abandoned Pennsylvania town where a coal seam
near the surface has been burning since 1962.  Left Underground  The method also leaves underground the worst parts of coal
-- the mercury, arsenic and lead. And it allows for a much
simpler capture of  greenhouse gases , which can be piped back
into the seam and stored there or sold to oil producers who
inject it into wells to boost recovery rates.  Development of coal gas is proceeding faster in places
where natural gas is expensive and coal seams are deep,
including  Canada ,  South Africa ,  New Zealand ,  China  and
Uzbekistan. Both of those preconditions are lacking in the U.S.,
at least right now.  Hydraulic fracturing depressed  gas prices  to a 10-year low
of less than $2 a million British thermal units. That’s well
below the $6 that can be attained through a typical gasification
project, according to estimates from Julio Friedmann, chief
energy technologist at the Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory in California.  Gas futures in New York are trading at about $2.60 a
million Btus, down 13 percent this year.  “Cheap gas is the mortal enemy,” Friedmann said.  And while researchers at  Stanford University  and Lawrence
Livermore estimate that underground coal gasification would
boost the levels of exploitable coal reserves in the U.S
fivefold, the country isn’t suffering from a shortage of the
mineral.  ‘Limited Applicability’  Tom Welch, a spokesman for the U.S. Energy Department said
underground gasification “has limited applicability across the
U.S. because we have ample supplies of high quality, readily
available coal.”  That hasn’t stopped mining companies in the U.S. from
picking up reserves that would otherwise be worthless.  Peabody
Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest U.S. coal producer, last year paid
$6.5 million for 29 coal leases in  Wyoming  containing what it
said are “billions of tons” of the fuel. The seams are too
deep to mine conventionally but may be ideal for underground
gasification.  Outside of the U.S., coal gas is seeing a wave of new
investment thanks to advances in drilling and computer modeling
that are bringing down costs, said Stanford’s Morse.  Swan Hills  Canada’s  Swan Hills Synfuels LP  is building a C$1.5 billion
($1.52 billion) plant coal-gas plant attached to a 300-megawatt
power generator near Whitecourt,  Alberta . The company will drill
down 4,700 feet (1,400 kilometers) to a coal seam that otherwise
wouldn’t be practical to reach.  “Our costs are very competitive with new coal plants,”
Swan Hills President David Shaigec said.  Australia’s  Linc Energy Ltd. (LNC)  is operating a demonstration
plant in Chinchilla, Queensland, and formed a joint venture with
a Chinese company in April to develop projects on the mainland.  Environmental groups are cautiously supportive of the
technology.  “It’s a much smaller environmental footprint than
conventional mining and consumes much less water,” said George
Peridas, a scientist at the  Natural Resources Defense Council 
who advocates more study and testing before projects are
commercialized.  Water Pollution  Coal gas does have its downsides. As with fracking, which
has been blamed for polluting groundwater with the chemicals
needed to break up shale rock, some early underground
gasification projects caused toxic metals to leak into the water
table.  “Groundwater contamination is a concern that needs to be
addressed,” said Julie Lauder, chief executive officer of the
London-based  Underground Coal Gasification Association , whose
membership has grown by a third in the past year. The industry’s
solution is to go deeper than the water table and to choose
sites carefully.  Lauder, not surprisingly, is bullish about future
prospects. “Conventional mining will soon be a thing of the
past,” she said. Lenin would applaud.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  