-- Cocoa Climbs the Most in Seven Months After Ivory Coast Violence
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-28T15:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/cocoa-climbs-the-most-in-seven-months-after-ivory-coast-violence.html
Cocoa climbed the most in seven
months in London, after gains in  New York  yesterday, as violence
added to speculation of supply disruptions in  Ivory Coast , the
world’s largest producer.  The chocolate ingredient rose as much as 4.2 percent in New
York yesterday as speculators bought the futures, pushing prices
up in the absence of producer selling, according to Drew Geraghty, a broker at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey . Laurent Akoun, the second-ranking official in Ivory
Coast ex-President Laurent Gbagbo’s opposition political party,
was arrested, a party spokesman said on Aug. 26. A civil war in
Ivory Coast last year resulted in a ban on cocoa shipments.  “There are worries about the situation in Ivory Coast,”
Jerome Jourquin, head of agricultural commodities derivatives at
Aurel BGC, a broker in Paris, said by e-mail today. “If we have
a civil war again, it will be very bullish for cocoa again. At
this stage, it is pure speculation.”  Cocoa for December delivery rose 5.6 percent to 1,673
pounds ($2,649) a metric ton at 4:07 p.m. in London on NYSE
Liffe in  London . Cocoa for December delivery rose 2.3 percent to
$2,530 a ton on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  West African producers usually hedge their crop on the
London market, which was closed yesterday for a holiday. The
absence of producer selling “allowed the speculators to run the
market higher as short-covering as well as new buying pushed the
price higher,” Geraghty said in a report e-mailed yesterday.
Short-covering means buying to close out bets on lower prices.  Ivory Coast is making changes to its cocoa industry which
include selling 70 percent of the 2012-13 crop before the season
starts in October. About 910,000 tons of the next crop were
sold, the International Cocoa Organization said in a report e-
mailed today. There is speculation shipments will be delayed
when cocoa from the next season already sold needs to be
delivered,  Jonathan Parkman , co-head of agriculture at Marex
Spectron, said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 