-- Lexmark Credit-Default Swaps Surge to Record on Inkjet Sale Plan
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-28T21:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/company-default-swaps-in-u-s-rise-for-first-time-in-three-days.html
The cost to protect against losses
on  Lexmark International Inc. (LXK) ’s  debt  surged to a record after
the U.S. printer maker said it’s exploring a sale of its inkjet
technology and buying back shares.  Credit-default swaps tied to the Lexington, Kentucky-based
company climbed 80.3 basis points to 650.3 basis points as of
4:30 p.m. in  New York , according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. The contracts, which are
trading at the highest on record, have climbed from 284.3 basis
points since the end of May, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lexmark is among printer manufacturers including  Canon Inc. (7751) 
and  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  that have cut earnings forecasts this year
citing weaker office-equipment sales in  Europe . The company is
working with advisers for options to sell its inkjet-related
technology, Lexmark said in a statement today. Lexmark also said
it will buy back an additional $100 million shares, and that the
board has authorized as much as $251 million in future
repurchases.  “Today’s announcement represents difficult decisions,
which are necessary to drive improved profitability,” Lexmark
Chief Executive Officer Paul Rooke said in the statement about
the restructuring. “Our investments are focused on higher-value
imaging and software solutions.”  The restructuring will cost the company $160 million, with
$110 million of that this year, Lexmark said.  Cash flow  will be
reduced by $75 million, with $40 million of that in 2012.  Confidence Drops  A gauge of corporate credit risk increased for the first
time in three days as  consumer confidence  slid. The Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, a credit swaps benchmark
that investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness, added 0.8 basis point to a
mid-price of 101.1 basis points at 5:04 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The swaps index rose after a report showed U.S. consumer
confidence fell by the most in 10 months as households grew more
pessimistic, while a reduced economic assessment from  Japan 
highlighted risks of a further global slowdown. Investors are
concerned that weakening economic activity may taint corporate
balance sheets and reduce companies’ ability to repay debts.  The credit swaps measure, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, is up from
98.5 basis points on Aug. 20. The contracts pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  A report tomorrow on U.S. gross domestic product may show
faster growth in the world’s largest economy. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will give a speech on Aug. 31 at an
annual meeting in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, which investors are
awaiting to gauge the outlook for monetary policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  