-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Declines by Most Since October
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-28T17:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-declines-by-most-since-october.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers fell
in August by the most in 10 months as households grew more
pessimistic about their employment prospects and the economic
outlook.  The Conference Board’s  index  decreased to 60.6 from a
revised 65.4 in July, figures from the New York-based private
research group showed today. The 4.8-point decrease was the
biggest since October. The reading was less than the most-
pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey in which the median
projection was 66.  Rising gasoline prices, a  jobless rate  that’s been above 8
percent since the start of 2009 and limited income gains are
keeping consumers glum. Persistent pessimism raises the risk of
a pullback in household purchases that account for about 70
percent of the world’s biggest economy.  “The consumer is still very cautious,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief U.S. economist for High Frequency Economics
Ltd. in Valhalla,  New York , who projected a drop in sentiment.
“The labor market is still relatively weak. There’s a lot of
uncertainty about policy ahead of the election” and fuel costs
have accelerated, he said.  This month’s confidence reading was the lowest since
November. Estimates for the Conference Board gauge ranged from
61 to 68 in the Bloomberg survey of 77 economists. The measure
averaged 53.7 during the 18-month recession that ended in June
2009.  Stocks were little changed ahead of Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s speech on the economy in three days.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped less than 0.1 percent to
1,409.9 at 1:55 p.m. in New York.  Home Prices  Another report today showed home prices in 20 U.S. cities
rose in the 12 months ended in June, the first year-over-year
gain in almost two years and showing improvement in the industry
that precipitated the last recession. The S&P/Case-Shiller index
of  property values  climbed 0.5 percent from a year earlier, the
group reported in New York.  “We are very encouraged by our results,” Robert Toll,
chairman of  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , said during an Aug. 22 call
after the Horsham, Pennsylvania-based luxury-home builder’s
third-quarter earnings were better than expected. “We do remain
cautious in our optimism, as we believe  consumer confidence 
remains fragile and subject to the impact of negative economic
and political headlines.”  The Conference Board’s measure of  present conditions  was
little changed at 45.8 in August after 45.9 a month earlier. The
measure of  expectations  for the next six months slumped to 70.5,
the lowest since November, from 78.4.  Inflation Expectations  Sentiment waned among almost all income and age groups,
today’s figures showed. The pickup in gasoline prices may have
boosted inflation expectations as well. Spending plans were
mixed, with fewer Americans saying they expected to purchase
autos and more indicating they planned to buy a home.  The percent of respondents who said they expected more jobs
to become available in the next six months fell to 15.4 from
17.6 the previous month. The share who said they anticipated
fewer employment opportunities rose to 23.4 percent, the highest
since November.  The proportion who said they expected their incomes to
decrease over the next six months rose to a 10-month high of
16.8 percent from 14.9 percent in July. Some 52.3 percent of
consumers said jobs are currently not plentiful.  The percent of American consumers who expected better
business conditions in the next six months declined to 16.5
percent in August from 19 percent. Some 17.7 percent say
conditions will be worse, the most since October.  Bloomberg Measure  The Conference Board’s measure is in line with the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, which dropped in the week
ended Aug. 19 to the lowest level since January. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary August index of
consumer sentiment improved after dropping a month earlier to
the weakest level of the year.  A decrease in optimism may make it difficult for spending
to strengthen. Purchases by consumers rose at a 1.5 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, down from a 2.4 percent rate
in the previous three months, according to Commerce Department
data. An Aug. 30 report may probably show spending climbed in
July by the most in five months, economists project.  A pickup in job growth probably helped sustain demand last
month. Payrolls increased by 163,000 in July, the most in five
months, according to Labor Department figures released Aug. 3.
At the same time, the jobless rate rose to a five-month high of
8.3 percent in July.  Stock prices have also risen, easing the sting of higher
fuel costs. The  S&P 500  has advanced 2.3 percent in August
through yesterday and is on pace for its third straight monthly
gain.  The average price of a gallon of  regular gasoline  has
climbed 23.5 cents this month to $3.76, according to AAA, the
nation’s largest auto club. Since reaching a low of $3.33 on
July 1, the average has climbed 43 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  