-- Copper-Alloy Product Output in Japan Slumps for 14th Month
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-08-28T03:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/copper-alloy-product-output-in-japan-slumps-for-14th-month-1-.html
Japan ’s output of copper and copper-
alloy fabricated products, including sheets and tubes, tumbled
for a 14th month in July as the country pared its assessment of
the economy, an industry group said.  Production was 68,510 metric tons last month, down 5.7
percent from 72,658 tons a year ago, the Japan Copper & Brass
 Association  said, citing preliminary data. Output totaled 68,917
tons in June, down 5.8 percent from a year ago.  Japan’s government downgraded its assessment of the world’s
third-biggest economy for the first time in 10 months as some
analysts forecast that gross domestic product will shrink this
quarter. Risks include a “further slowing down of overseas
economies and sharp fluctuations in the financial and capital
markets,” the Cabinet Office said in a monthly report today.  “Although we saw a recovery in output for automakers,
demand from the semiconductor and electronics parts industries
still remained subdued,” said Keizo Tani, research manager at
the association.  Copper, used in pipes and wires, has declined 16 percent in
the past year. Three-month metal on the London Metal exchange
fell 0.8 percent to $7,582.50 a ton at 12:09 p.m. in  Tokyo .  JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. forecast a 0.3 percent
annualized decline in the country’s gross domestic product in
the three months through September, while BNP Paribas SA
estimates a 0.9 percent fall. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey compiled this month was for 1 percent growth, partly
supported by earthquake reconstruction work.  European austerity measures, U.S. unemployment and  China ’s
slowdown are weakening global demand. Japan’s bigger-than-
forecast trade deficit in July and slowing economic growth in
the second quarter highlighted pressure on the  Bank of Japan  and
the government to add stimulus.  Japan’s copper wire and cable shipments increased 9 percent
to 59,800 tons in July from a year earlier as automobile and
electric-machinery demand grew, climbing for a third month, the
 Japanese Electric Wire & Cable Makers’ Association  said Aug. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  