-- Cotton Futures Decline on Demand Concerns; Orange Juice Advances
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-08-28T18:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/cotton-futures-decline-on-demand-concerns-orange-juice-advances.html
Cotton futures fell on concern that
demand will ebb amid signs of slowing economies.  Orange juice 
increased.  Japan’s government today downgraded its assessment of the
world’s third-biggest economy for the first time in 10 months,
the Cabinet Office said in a monthly report released in Tokyo.
Risks include a “further slowing down of overseas economies and
sharp fluctuations in the financial and capital markets,”
according to the report.  “A slower world economy has a negative impact on cotton,
as purchases can be delayed, unlike food commodities,”  Sid Love , the president of Joe Kropf & Sid Love Consulting in
 Overland Park , Kansas, said in an e-mail.  Cotton for December delivery dropped 0.7 percent to settle
at 75.62 cents a pound at 2:30 p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New
York .  China, the world’s biggest cotton user, may sell about 1
million metric tons from stockpiles and release 400,000 tons of
import quota to help textile companies cope with increased raw-
material costs and weak export demand, said Dong Shuangwei, an
analyst at Beijing Capital Futures Co.  Hurricane Isaac may bring heavy rain to the lower
Mississippi Valley and cut the quality of the cotton crop in the
region. Flooding from  storm surge  and rainfall is expected,
according to the National  Hurricane Center  in Miami. The U.S. is
the world’s biggest exporter of the fiber.  “In the short run, possible damage from Isaac is a
support,” for prices, Love said.  Orange-juice futures for November delivery rose 0.2 percent
to $1.14 a pound in New York, the first gain in four sessions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  