-- Credit Agricole Second-Quarter Net Drops 67% on Greece
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-08-28T16:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/credit-agricole-second-quarter-net-drops-67-on-greece-intesa.html
Credit Agricole  SA,  France ’s third-
largest bank by market value, posted a 67 percent decline in
second-quarter profit on losses in  Greece  and a writedown of its
stake in  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   Net income fell to 111 million euros ($138.6 million) from
339 million euros a year earlier, the bank, based near Paris,
said in a statement today. The company booked 370 million euros
of losses in Greece, as well as a 427 million-euro charge on its
holding in Milan-based Intesa. Losses were partly cushioned by a
140 million-euro gain on Credit Agricole’s own debt.  Credit Agricole, led by Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Chifflet, is shutting its riskiest investment-banking activities
and weighing offers from Greece’s three largest lenders for its
Emporiki unit in the country, which is stuck in a five-year
recession. The bank said it’s still studying the bids.  “Greece and  Italy  keep poisoning their results,” said
Gregory Moore, who helps manage 200 million euros at Montsegur
Finance in Paris, including shares in  Credit Agricole. (ACA)  “It’s
disappointing as we didn’t get more significant details” about
the sale of Emporiki, he said.  Credit Agricole fell 0.4 percent to 4.27 euros in Paris
trading. The shares have  fallen  34 percent over the past 12
months, trailing the 4.7 percent increase in the 38-member
Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  Exclusive Talks  Credit Agricole has taken no decision on entering into more
advanced talks related to any of the offers for Emporiki, it
said in the statement. Discussions are continuing with the Bank
of Greece, the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund and the
European Commission “on the terms and conditions to which the
transaction would be subject,” the bank said.  “We need to carry out our goals,” Chifflet told
journalists on a call today. Credit Agricole aims to exit
Emporiki and Greece, and any remaining stake in the Greek unit
won’t exceed 10 percent, he said. Credit Agricole “hopes” to
close the Emporiki sale by Dec. 31, the CEO said at a press
conference.  National Bank of Greece SA  and Eurobank Ergasias SA this
month submitted bids for Emporiki, joining  Alpha Bank SA (ALPHA) ,
Greece’s No. 3 lender, in their pursuit of Credit Agricole’s
unprofitable Athens-based unit. Emporiki’s loan book makes
Credit Agricole the foreign bank with most to lose should Greece
exit the euro.  Entering exclusive negotiations “is a matter of weeks,”
and sealing an agreement will also require weeks, Chief
Financial Officer Bernard Delpit told reporters.  Asked whether Credit Agricole may consider keeping a
funding exposure to some of Emporiki’s least-performing loans,
Delpit said that “if we keep assets in Greece, for sure it
wouldn’t be the difficult assets.”  Capital Increase  Credit Agricole provided 2.3 billion euros in capital to
Emporiki in July by converting a portion of its funding to the
Greek unit into equity. Following the capital injection, Credit
Agricole’s equity exposure to Emporiki was 2.7 billion euros and
its net funding exposure fell to 2.3 billion euros.  Credit Agricole increased Emporiki’s capital following a
request from the Bank of Greece, Chifflet told journalists.  Greece is overhauling its banks after lenders sustained
losses on their holdings of  government bonds  in the country’s
debt swap, the biggest sovereign restructuring in history. The
country obtained a 130 billion-euro bailout in March from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund  which earmarked
50 billion euros for recapitalizing the banks.  The HFSF is helping to oversee Emporiki’s sale as
preparations continue to put capital into the country’s banks.
Xavier Musca, former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s chief of
staff, joined Credit Agricole last month as deputy CEO in charge
of international retail-banking.  Asset Reductions  Credit Agricole, founded in 1894 as a French farmers’ bank,
invested 2.2 billion euros in 2006 to buy a majority stake in
Emporiki, the least profitable of Greece’s top banks at the
time. Since then, Emporiki has been unprofitable every year
except 2007, with accumulated losses for Credit Agricole of
about 5.7 billion euros by the end of June.  Credit Agricole is also reducing minority equity
investments in European financial institutions. The French bank
booked a 28 million-euro gain by selling its shares in
 Portugal ’s insurance firm BES Vida to  Banco Espirito Santo SA. (BES) 
Credit Agricole reduced its “ownership interest” in Milan-
based Intesa to below 2 percent and lowered its stake in Madrid-
based  Bankinter SA (BKT)  to below 20 percent, it said today.  Credit Agricole is “open” to all solutions regarding its
holding in Bankinter, Chifflet said, without elaborating.  Credit Agricole last year started trimming its  balance
sheet  and the bank in December scrapped its 2014 earnings
targets. Credit Agricole Group, the entity regulators and rating
firms look at for compliance with international rules, expects
to reach a 10 percent core capital ratio by the end of 2013
under Basel III rules, the bank confirmed today. Chifflet
repeated that a capital increase “is not on the agenda.”  Credit Agricole joined  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Societe Generale
SA (GLE)  in cutting investment-banking jobs and assets as the crisis
curbs access to funding in dollars, regulators impose stricter
capital rules and French President  Francois Hollande ’s
government prepares legislation to isolate the banks’ riskiest
businesses.  Investment Bank  Chifflet, 62, told investors at their May annual gathering
that he favors “banning or limiting activities recognized as
speculative.” While splitting retail banking and investment
banking wouldn’t be a “miracle solution,” Credit Agricole
“has put the foot on the brake” in equity derivatives and
 credit derivatives  and has stopped all proprietary trading, the
CEO repeated today.  Credit Agricole at the end of June achieved 97 percent of
its planned 35 billion-euro cut in risk-weighted assets, the
bank said. Most of Credit Agricole’s asset reductions come from
its corporate- and investment-banking, or CIB, unit, which is
closing operations in 21 countries. The division aims for
“medium-term” annual revenue of 5.4 billion euros, up from
4.73 billion euros in 2011, the bank said in April.  Second-quarter profit at the CIB unit fell to 289 million
euros from 331 million euros a year earlier. While Credit
Agricole’s net losses from subprime-era activities it is winding
down were trimmed to 7 million euros, CIB earnings benefitted
from 185 million euros in gains from revaluing debt issues and
loan hedges, according to the statement.  Credit Agricole’s CEO also confirmed today that the bank
has been cooperating with “all U.S. authorities for several
years” regarding Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations.
Credit Agricole continues reviewing internally “operations
regarding physical persons and all the countries” that face a
U.S. embargo, Chifflet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 