-- Czech Auction Yield Tumbles to Record Low as Zero Rates Loom
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-08-29T14:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/czech-zero-interest-rate-bets-cut-auction-yield-to-record-low.html
The Czech government’s funding costs
fell to an all-time low for the fifth consecutive bond auction
as the koruna’s appreciation to the strongest in four months
added to expectations for interest-rate cuts to zero.  The country sold 4.7 billion koruna ($238 million) of
fixed-rate debt maturing in 2021 and floating-rate bonds due
2017, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Investors bid for more
than twice the amount raised. The average accepted yield on the
nine-year securities fell to 2.14 percent, the lowest ever,
compared with 2.32 percent at their last sale on July 18.  Slowing global growth and the koruna’s gains are dimming
prospects for the Czech export-led economy after three quarters
of contraction. The Czech National Bank, which reduced its main
rate to a record-low 0.5 percent in June, may decrease its
forecast for gross domestic product, and rate cuts toward zero
cannot be ruled out, board member Lubomir Lizal said on Aug. 19.  “Czech rates may fall to zero or even negative, especially
should the koruna stay at the current strong levels,”  Jaromir Sindel , a Prague-based economist at Citigroup Inc., said in a
telephone interview yesterday. The bank forecasts the benchmark
rate will be reduced to 0.05 percent by yearend, he said.
“Before introducing negative rates, the CNB would probably
consider intervening against the koruna.”  Forward-rate agreements, or FRAs, show investors expect the
CNB to cut the benchmark -- already below the  European Central
Bank ’s 0.75 percent -- to zero by May. Nine-month FRAs fell to
50 basis points, or 0.50 percentage point,  less than  the Prague
interbank offered rate this week, the strongest bet on policy
easing since February 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Strong Koruna  The Czech currency has gained 2.1 percent against the euro
this month, the second-most among major emerging-market peers
tracked by Bloomberg. Its appreciation hurts revenue from Czech
exports, which account for about 75 percent of GDP, according to
statistics office data. The CNB may counter further economic
weakness with zero or negative rates and may act to weaken the
koruna by about 10 percent, Mai Doan, an analyst with Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in  London , wrote in an Aug. 6 report.  The koruna weakened 0.3 percent today to 24.808 per euro by
4:29 p.m. in  Prague , after a 0.9 percent gain in the previous
four sessions to the strongest since April on closing basis.  Policy makers were split at their last meeting on Aug. 2 in
assessing inflation risks, voting four-to-two to hold rates. The
“delay” in monetary easing raises the risk that the central
bank will have to adopt more radical measures to avert
deflation, Vice Governor Vladimir Tomsik said two weeks ago.  Relative Safety  Czech bonds are luring investors with higher credit ratings
than for most euro members, public debt at half the euro-area
average and Prime Minister Petr Necas’s pledge to lower the
 budget deficit  to below the European Union’s 3 percent of GDP
limit next year for the first time since 2008.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the  Czech Republic  at its
fifth-highest grade of A1, four steps above  Italy  and five above
 Spain . The cost of insuring the debt with credit default swaps
is the lowest in emerging  Europe  except  Estonia  and lower than
in Aaa-rated  France . Improving perceptions of creditworthiness
have cut the Czech default swaps by 63 basis points this year to
111 today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a 44 basis-point drop to 59 in  Germany .  The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  ‘Still Eager’  “Czech debt is trading more or less as a core eurozone
credit,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director at Spiro Sovereign
Strategy in London, wrote in an e-mail to  Bloomberg News  after
the sale. “In the realm of investor perceptions, this is pretty
much as safe as it gets for a continental European country.”  Deficit cuts and the fact that the Czech Republic does not
share the burden of rescuing the most-indebted euro nations is
poised to lower the extra cost of its default swaps to 20 basis
points above Germany,  Felix Herrmann , an analyst for  emerging
markets  at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , wrote in an Aug. 27 report.  “The Czech government is still eager to pull the budget
deficit below 3 percent next year and we are optimistic that
this goal will be reached,” Herrmann said. “The Czech Republic
will certainly continue benefiting from the fact that it is not
a euro-zone member” while planned measures to stem the debt
crisis may “weigh negatively on the German solvency,” he said.  ‘Taking Profit’  The Czech bond rally increases the risk that investors will
avoid the securities because the yields are already reflecting
expectations for additional interest-rate cuts and “there is
not much space for further yield contraction,” said  Martin Lobotka , an economist at Ceska Sporitelna AS in Prague.  “Czech yields are more likely to rise than stay flat or
decline further” and “we see existing levels as attractive for
taking profit from the bonds’ holdings,” Lobotka wrote in a
report to clients dated Aug. 27. “It is also unclear whether
the CNB will really go all the way to zero.”  Czech public debt is equivalent to 44 percent of GDP, below
Poland at 55 percent,  Hungary  at 79 percent and the euro area at
92 percent, according to European Commission estimates for 2012.  Demand for  government bonds  is helped by deposits exceeding
loans at Czech banks and laws barring pension funds from riskier
assets. Czech lenders have boosted capital reserves since 2008
to “ample” levels and are “resilient against substantial
shocks,” the  International Monetary Fund  said on July 17.  “The country has a stable and moderate fiscal deficit and
low debt-to-GDP, while the banking sector is very strong,” said
Demetrios Efstathiou and Phoenix Kalen, London-based strategists
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, in an Aug. 24 report. “We
expect long-end bond yields to continue to drop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  