-- D.E Master Blenders Profit Falls on Costs, Brazil Accounting
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-08-28T10:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/d-e-master-blenders-profit-falls-on-costs-brazil-irregularities.html
D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV (DE) , the
coffee and tea company spun off by Sara Lee Corp., reported a 56
percent decline in full-year profit, burdened by increased costs
and accounting irregularities in  Brazil .  Net income in the 12 months through June fell to 118
million euros ($147 million) from 267 million euros a year
earlier, the Amsterdam-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The maker of Senseo coffee forecast sales growth in this
fiscal year as it expands its Nespresso-compatible capsule
business, revamps the Senseo system and introduces products such
as a machine that makes coffee from beans.  “The premiumization strategy that they have embarked on is
bearing fruit,” said Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets in Zurich.  Master Blenders said it expects revenue to increase by 3
percent to 5 percent in the year through June 2013, while its
earnings before interest and taxation margin is expected to
increase by as much as 2 percentage points.  The maker of Douwe Egberts coffee said Aug. 1 it would
restate earnings because of the accounting irregularities and
tax provisions in Brazil. The adjustments reduced  shareholders’
equity  by as much as 95 million euros. Selling, general and
administrative expenses partly stemming from its shift to an
independent company rose about 39 percent. Revenue during the
fourth quarter on a like-for-like basis increased 6.5 percent.  Nespresso Capsules  Master Blenders sees “upward potential” for its L’OR
Espresso coffee capsules that work with  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Nespresso
system, Chief Executive Officer Michiel Herkemij said. L’OR
Espresso has about 25 percent of the market in  Spain  for
Nespresso-compatible capsules. In  France  it has a 10 percent
share and in the Netherlands about 13 percent, according to the
company.  Master Blenders has said it plans to invest heavily in
marketing its Senseo coffee brand, the remaining half of which
it bought back from  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  this year. The
company also plans to expand into new regions.  “Market shares in our key countries the Netherlands,
France and Spain continued to hold up well and consumer prices
as well as our competitive price positions remained virtually
unchanged,” Herkemij said in the statement.  Master Blenders shares increased as much as 3.5 percent to
9.34 euros in Amsterdam trading. The stock traded up 2.5 percent
at 12:35 p.m.  Sarista System  Demand from business customers for the new Sarista coffee
machine has been twice what Master Blenders had been expecting,
according to Herkemij. The machine, which uses whole beans and
is aimed at coffee aficionados, will be introduced in the
Netherlands in October, according to the company.  Full-year revenue from Master Blenders’s retail business in
western  Europe  gained 12 percent on a like-for-like basis.
Master Blenders gets about three quarters of its revenue from
retail sales, about half of which come from roast and ground
coffee, according to  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at  Liberum
Capital . Retail sales from the rest of the world increased 16
percent.  Master Blenders’ business in western Europe is “strong”,
with an increase in market share in France and the company’s
share in the Netherlands “keeping up well,” Herkemij said in a
Cantos interview.  The company said a cost-savings program is “well on
track” to reach 25 million euros to 30 million euros in full-
year 2013. Total annualized savings are expected to be at the
upper end of a 55 million-euro to 75 million-euro range by full-
year 2015.  Revenue from Master Blenders’s out-of-home business dipped
0.3 percent on a like-for-like basis. The company said today it
plans to restructure the unit.  Master Blenders will focus over the coming 12 months on
organic growth, though “if something materializes in the
meantime, we will have a close look at it,” Herkemij said on a
conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 