-- De Jager Says Too Early to Speculate on More Aid for Greece
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-08-28T16:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/de-jager-says-too-early-to-speculate-on-more-aid-for-greece-1-.html
Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager and his German counterpart,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , declined
to comment on providing more aid to  Greece , saying they needed
to wait until a report on the country’s fiscal situation due to
be published as late as October.  Before a meeting with Schaeuble in The Hague today, de
Jager said it’s “too early to speculate” on giving more
assistance to the cash-strapped country. He also said he’ll work
with Schaeuble on “effective” banking supervision.  “It’s totally clear we wait on the report of the troika”
made up of the European Commission, the  European Central Bank 
and the  International Monetary Fund  “and we all agree we will
not make speculation before we have this troika report,” said
Schaeuble.  Both officials have signaled opposition to providing more
funds to Greece. “We can’t make yet another new program,”
Schaeuble said Aug. 18. “There are limits.” Greece has
received a pair of aid packages with commitments totaling 240
billion euros ($301 billion).  The troika is compiling a progress report that may
determine the country’s future in the euro as the ECB fleshes
out bond-buying proposals announced by President  Mario Draghi 
earlier this month. A top German court is due to rule on Sept.
12 whether  Europe ’s permanent bailout fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, is constitutional.  “The Netherlands, Germany work closely together and we
have similar positions,” Schaeuble said. “We want a strong
Europe and we know that it’s important for all the countries
that the process of further integration goes ahead.”  Merkel’s Comments  The troika report on Greece’s economic progress is likely
to be delivered in late September or early October, the European
Commission said yesterday. Chancellor Angela Merkel yesterday
told members of her coalition calling for a Greek exit from the
euro to “weigh their words,” as she signaled a renewed
determination to keep the single currency intact.  “What we’ve always maintained is that countries in return
for loans must meet the commitments,” de Jager said. “And that
needs to be reflected in the troika report. The troika report is
about the issuance of tranches under an existing program.”  There have been “objections” in  Germany  and the
Netherlands regarding a new program for Greece or more money, de
Jager said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  