-- LDP Likely to Block Deficit Bond Bill as Noda Censure Looms
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-08-28T08:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/ldp-likely-to-halt-japan-deficit-bond-bill-as-noda-censure-looms.html
Japan’s lower house of parliament
passed legislation authorizing the sale of bonds to finance the
budget that will probably be blocked by the upper house,
complicating Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s economic policy.  The bill authorizes the sale of 38.3 trillion yen ($488
billion) in so-called deficit-financing bonds to pay for about
40 percent of budget spending for the year that began April 1.
The largest opposition party is preparing a censure motion
against Noda, and its leader last week signaled his party won’t
approve the bill unless the prime minister calls new elections.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  last month said the government
will run out of money in October should the bill fail to pass. A
repeat of last year’s political wrangling that delayed similar
legislation is threatening investor faith in management of the
world’s largest public debt, economist  Junko Nishioka  said.  “Credit-rating companies have cited Japan’s unstable
politics as a major factor for a possible downgrade of the
country’s sovereign debt and this is an extraordinary
situation,” said Nishioka, chief economist at RBS Securities
Japan Ltd. in Tokyo and a former central bank official.
“Investors’ trust in Japan’s fiscal policy continues to be
fragile.”  The Liberal  Democratic Party  and New Komeito party will
submit the non-binding censure motion against Noda in the upper
house at 6 p.m. today,  Kyodo News  reported without citing
anyone. A vote could take place as early as tomorrow.  Tax Deal  Both parties this month helped pass legislation doubling
the five percent sales tax by October 2015 in return for Noda’s
pledge to dissolve parliament and call elections “soon.” LDP
leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  told reporters Aug. 23 that “we hope
parliament will be dissolved swiftly, and then after that we can
discuss the handling of” the deficit financing bill.  Last year the ruling Democratic Party of Japan had
difficulty pushing through a deficit-financing bond issuance
bill because the opposition blocked its passage to force then-
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  to resign. The bill was approved on
Aug. 26, the same day Kan announced his resignation. Noda
succeeded Kan in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  