-- Dublin’s Burlington Hotel on Sale for About 25% of 2007 Cost
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-08-29T10:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/dublin-s-burlington-hotel-put-on-sale-for-about-25-of-2007-cost.html
The Burlington Hotel in Dublin was
put up for sale with an asking price of as much as 75 million
euros ($94 million), about a quarter of what Irish developer
Bernard McNamara paid for the property five years ago.  The 501-bedroom hotel is being sold on behalf of  Grant
Thornton  Ltd., the receiver for Burhotel Trading Co., according
to a statement by  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , the broker managing the sale.
McNamara’s real estate development business unraveled in the
years after he paid 288 million euros for the 3.8-acre site,
about one kilometer (0.6 miles) from the center of Dublin.
Burhotel is one of the companies he used to own.  “There is an opportunity to bring in the support of a
world-recognized international brand,” Paul Collins, a CBRE
director, said in the statement. “That can bring trading at the
Burlington to another level altogether and add significantly to
the future investment value.”  The Burlington Hotel, known locally as the Burlo, is the
city’s second-largest after the Citywest Hotel. Dublin is one of
the few areas in the country where hotel occupancy rates are
increasing, the Tourism Ireland agency said in July. Revenue per
available room in the city’s hotels rose for 23 consecutive
months through July, CBRE said, citing data from STR Global.  Failed Development  McNamara won planning approval in 2009 to demolish the
hotel and develop more than 33,300 square meters (360,000 square
feet) of  office space , about 180 homes, restaurants, shops and a
gym through a company called Glasbay Ltd. The country’s property
market had collapsed by then, with real estate values falling 66
percent from September 2007 through June, according to
Investment Property Databank Ltd.  McNamara never developed the site and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY) ’s Bank of  Scotland  (Ireland) unit appointed a receiver to
Glasbay in February, according to a filing with the Companies
Registration Office. Grant Thornton was also appointed to
oversee Burhotel that month, a separate filing showed.  Lloyds is reaching incentive-laden deals with real estate
management companies in Ireland and the U.K. to maximize the
amount it recovers from defaulted loans. The London-based bank
signed an agreement with BDL Ireland Management Ltd. that may
allow the company to manage hotels tied to the bank’s 1 billion
euros of Irish lodging loans, two people familiar with the
matter said in April.  Biggest Ballroom  The Burlington Hotel, located on Upper Leeson Street close
to the Grand Canal, has the biggest ballroom in Ireland,
according to its website. The building has conference facilities
for as many as 1,300 people.  About 1,000 people will stay in the hotel this weekend for
the college football game between  Notre Dame  and Navy at the
Aviva Stadium about two kilometers from the hotel, according to
the statement. More than 33,000 U.S. tourists are expected to
travel to Ireland for the game, according to The Gathering
Ireland, a promotional body for the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 