-- The Megadeal That Could Change Baseball Forever
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-08-28T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/the-megadeal-that-could-change-baseball-forever.html
We can only hope that years from
now, baseball’s general managers will look back on last
weekend’s blockbuster trade between the  Los Angeles Dodgers  and
the  Boston Red Sox  and see a watershed moment for the game.  I am not talking about the Dodgers obliterating the very
concept of a “budget,” driving their payroll into  New York 
Yankees territory: a gob-smacking $192.6 million in 2013. I am
talking about baseball executives finally learning their lesson.
I am talking -- admittedly, a bit optimistically -- about GMs
saying no to  Scott Boras .  I am talking about the end of the era of the huge, stupid
long-term contract.  To review: Los Angeles sent a handful of players the casual
baseball fan has probably never heard of -- James Loney, Ivan
DeJesus Jr., Rubby De La Rosa, Jerry Sands and Allen Webster --
to Boston. In exchange, they received three big names and their
big contracts:  Adrian Gonzalez  ($127 million through 2017),  Carl Crawford  ($102.5 million through 2017) and  Josh Beckett  (a
relative bargain, just $31.5 million through 2014). The Dodgers
also got utility infielder Nick Punto and $11 million in cash.  Touting the benefits of the deal, Dodgers General Manager
Ned Colletti  said  Gonzalez and Crawford “are entering the prime
of their careers.” Not true. Gonzalez is 30; Crawford is 31.
Most ballplayers reach their peak at 28.  Throwing Money  The Dodgers are in a pennant race. Their new owners are
throwing money around like a super-PAC. Maybe they are trying to
prove a point to their fans, who had been reduced to watching
the team’s previous owners,  Frank McCourt  and his now ex-wife,
Jamie, turn the storied franchise into a sordid reality show.
(“They’re rich, they’re spiteful and they own the Dodgers!”)
Maybe this trade -- not to mention some of the other high-priced
acquisitions the Dodgers made during the season -- really will
help the team make the playoffs, even the  World Series .  I don’t see it. As Jonah Keri argues  persuasively , there’s
no reason to expect Gonzalez and Crawford to get better at this
point in their careers, all the more so because they are leaving
one of the most hitter-friendly parks in baseball for a
pitcher’s paradise. As Keri notes, of the meager 18 homers
Gonzalez hit at Fenway Park since the start of the 2011 season,
just six would have reached the bleachers at Dodger Stadium.
Crawford won’t play the rest of this season anyway after having
elbow surgery. As for Beckett, who is 32, anyone who has seen
him “pitch” recently -- let alone made the mistake of drafting
him for their fantasy team -- knows that he is a disaster. (He
made his Dodger debut Monday night, giving up 3 runs on 7 hits
in 5 2/3 innings to the Colorado Rockies, the third worst team
in the National League.)  Red Sox  fans, having sunk to emotional depths not
experienced since 2003, or 1986, or maybe 1978, finally had
something to celebrate. Yes, they still have a losing team, but
at least it’s one they won’t be stuck with well past the 2016
Olympics. On Sunday, the day after the trade, they gratefully
cheered on a lineup with journeyman Pedro Ciriaco batting lead-
off. The joke  being retweeted  by Sox fans was that  Magic Johnson 
-- a minority partner in the Dodgers -- was now more popular in
Boston than  Larry Bird .  The irony is that it was the architect of the Red Sox 2004
championship team,  Theo Epstein , who created this mess. Having
assembled his famously scrappy World Series winner with the
likes of Mark Bellhorn, who earned less than a half-million
dollars, and Bill Mueller, who was coming off knee surgery,
Epstein became a victim of his own success. He suddenly had
money, and he spent it. He tried to buy himself a dynasty.
Instead, he built an expensive time bomb and narrowly escaped to
Chicago before it exploded.  Eroding Muscles  Epstein wasn’t the first general manager seduced by the
prospect of locking up a star player for an eternity, and he
probably won’t be the last. These crazy contracts have been
proliferating ever since 2000, when the  Texas Rangers  signed
 Alex Rodriguez  to a 10-year, $252 million deal. Almost
invariably, they are signed when players are at their peak --
just before age starts to erode the eyesight and fast-twitch
muscle fibers required to hit big-league pitching. Fat, long-
term deals for pitchers in their prime -- see, for example, Mike Hampton, Jarrod Washburn, Barry Zito and countless more -- are
even more senseless.  These contracts haven’t been all bad for baseball.
Necessity bred invention. We all know this part of the story:
Teams that couldn’t afford to enter the arms race had to find
more creative ways to stay competitive.  Another legacy of these contracts, however, was a lot of
fan resentment. There’s nothing quite like watching a player
gradually succumb to his own physical limitations, while knowing
that he’s still making bags full of money and, for good measure,
blocking the path of a promising young prospect in your team’s
minor-league system. (Recall that Angels rookie Mike Trout, a
legitimate MVP candidate, got his shot at a starting job only
after the 33-year-old, $21-million-a-year  Vernon Wells  got
injured.)  Now the Red Sox have conveniently compressed more than a
decade’s worth of baseball history into a neat parable. The
moral isn’t that money doesn’t matter. It’s that spending large
amounts of it to ensure that players in their prime will wear
your uniform for years to come doesn’t turn your team into a
perennial contender. It turns it into the baseball equivalent of
an overcommitted state pension fund.  This offseason, 31-year-old  Josh Hamilton  of the Texas
Rangers, one of baseball’s top home-run hitters, will hit the
free-agent market. His agent will no doubt be looking for a huge
long-term contract -- which is to say that he will demand that
Hamilton continue to get paid like a star well past the point
when he actually is one.  GMs: Do yourselves and your fans a favor. Don’t do it.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
A long-time contributor to the New York Times Magazine, he is
the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx
Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy
Valley.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on using the  Strategic Petroleum
Reserve  to hold down gasoline prices and on the need for
disclosure in  natural-gas drilling ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Mitt
Romney’s odd sense of humor ; Clive Crook on the  foreign policy
Romney won’t adopt ; John Paul Rollert on  Paul Ryan ,  the salesman
who never takes no  for an answer.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 