-- Eco Oro Plunges After Colombia Concession Cut: Vancouver Mover
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-08-28T20:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/eco-oro-plunges-after-colombia-concession-cut-vancouver-mover.html
Eco Oro Minerals Corp. (EOM) , a gold
explorer in which hedge fund Paulson & Co. owns 10 percent,
plunged the most in 20 years after  Colombia  granted an extension
on less than half the company’s title rights.  Eco Oro fell 55 percent to 88 Canadian cents in Toronto,
the most intraday since July 1992. The Vancouver-based company’s
 shares  gained 32 percent this year through yesterday.  Colombia’s national mining agency said in a resolution
dated Aug. 8 that it would only extend the title on 46 percent
of Eco Oro’s Angostura gold and silver concession because the
rest of the land was located on a paramo, which is a high-
altitude watershed area, the company said yesterday in a
statement. The portion of the concession that wasn’t extended
contains about 70 percent of the Angostura deposit, it said.  “This resolution may be resolved over time but in the near
term it represents a serious impediment to advancing the
Angostura project,”  John Hayes , a Toronto-based analyst at BMO
Capital Markets, said in a note today. “The company’s shares
are likely to be weak and volatile until there is clarity and a
positive resolution on this issue.”  Eco Oro said it will file for a motion to reconsider the
resolution and will “take all other legal steps necessary to
protect its legal rights.” The mining agency’s position on the
areas constituting a paramo is “inconsistent” with Colombian
law, it said.  Eco Oro, formerly called Greystar Resources Ltd., withdrew
permit applications in March 2011 for its Angostura mine, which
would have produced about 2 million ounces of silver and 500,000
ounces of gold annually, after opposition to mining in the area.
The company said at the time it planned a smaller project to
take into account environmental concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  