-- Hedge Funds Cleared to Advertise Under SEC Proposal
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-08-29T17:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/hedge-fund-marketing-could-begin-new-era-as-sec-set-for-proposal.html
Hedge funds may go from soliciting
individual investors behind closed doors to conducting wide
advertising campaigns without restrictions under a rule proposed
today by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  SEC commissioners voted 4-1 to invite public comment on a
proposal for how to end decades of limits on the pursuit of
investors by private funds and startups. The proposal is driven
by a law that repealed a ban on pitching such investments to all
but a select few investors, such as those accustomed to pumping
cash into hedge funds.  “I recognize that there are very real concerns about the
potential impact of lifting the ban on general solicitation,”
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said before the vote. “While I
believe it will be incredibly important for the commission to
take a thorough look at the private placement market in the
future, I think at this point it is appropriate that we
undertake this more narrow mandate that Congress placed upon
us.”  The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, signed into law by
President  Barack Obama  in April, ended the ban as part of a
wider effort to expand funding options for fledgling companies.
The shift drew criticism from investor-protection groups and the
mutual-fund industry, including the Washington-based  Investment
Company Institute , which have said that lifting the ban without
restrictions may expose investors to misleading advertisements
by some private funds.  ‘Huge Disappointment’  In the past, securities laws allowed firms to market non-
publicly traded securities only to so-called accredited
investors with whom they have an existing relationship, usually
meaning frequent, wealthy investors. The solicitation rules were
designed to protect retail investors from inappropriate risks.  Even as future offerings are marketed to the general
public, the new rule would limit participants to those with more
than $1 million in assets, excluding primary residences, or
those earning more than $200,000 a year. The SEC’s proposal
doesn’t include restrictions for how offers are advertised, nor
does it establish a system for verifying accredited investors --
only that firms must take “reasonable steps” to check.  “This is a huge disappointment,”  Barbara Roper , director
of investor protection for the Washington-based  Consumer
Federation of America , said in a phone interview after the
meeting. “It appears that none of the investor protections that
we or others have advocated are included in this proposal.”  Billboards, TV  Luis Aguilar , a Democratic SEC commissioner, cited concerns
about investor vulnerability as a reason for his dissenting
vote.  “The proposal would permit solicitation and advertisements
via billboards, TV, the Internet, radio, and telemarketer calls,
among other avenues,” Aguilar said in a statement. “Allowing
such broad marketing activities under an exemption designed for
‘private’ offerings is a significant change in the securities
framework that greatly increases the vulnerability of
investors.”  ICI, which represents investment companies including mutual
funds with about $13 trillion in assets, had urged the SEC to
impose restrictions on private-fund marketing such as placing
limits on performance advertising and clarifying the investments
so investors don’t confuse them with mutual funds.  ‘Not for Everyone’  “These steps will help modernize existing securities laws
in a manner that will enhance financial market transparency and
investor protection, and will allow for more efficient capital
formation,” Stuart Kaswell, general counsel at the Managed
Funds Association, said in a statement. The Washington-based
trade group represents  hedge funds .  “These offerings are not for everyone and carry a very
high degree of risk,” Lori Schock, the SEC’s director of
investor education and advocacy, said in a June speech. “For
every successful venture, there are more numerous failed
ventures.”  Private offerings are the No. 1 fraud or scheme leading to
enforcement actions and investigations, according to the  North
American Securities Administrators Association . The number of
cases involving these types of investments jumped to 410 last
year, according to preliminary data from the organization of
state securities regulators. That’s a 60 percent increase from
2010.  More Knowledge  “Unsophisticated investors will be inundated with offers
of inappropriate investments sold through misleading
advertisements,” said Roper of the Consumer Federation. “Fraud
will surge in a market already ripe with problems.”  The lift on the advertising ban will educate a broader
group about the type of private offerings available, said Steven Nadel, a partner at the law firm of Seward & Kissel LLP in  New
York  who specializes in hedge funds and other alternative
investments.  “There’s plenty of wealthy Americans who may not be super
sophisticated when it comes to investing in alternatives,”
Nadel said in an interview before the meeting. “It will create
more knowledge, more transparency, more understanding of the
entire alternative industry.”  The SEC missed the law’s July implementation deadline, and
the 30-day public comment period will delay new hedge-fund
advertising practices even further.  “The 90-day deadline did not provide a realistic time
frame for the drafting of a new rule, the preparation of an
accompanying economic analysis, the proper review by the
Commission, and an opportunity for public input,”  John Nester ,
an SEC spokesman, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 