-- Egyptian Journalists in Court Reminiscent of Mubarak Era
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-08-28T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/egyptian-journalists-in-court-reminiscent-of-mubarak-era.html
Islam Afifi, editor-in-chief of
Egypt’s Al-Dostour newspaper, is in the same place today that
his predecessor was in four years ago: a courtroom facing
charges of insulting the president.  “I’m worried about everything now -- my freedom as a
journalist and my freedom as a citizen,” Afifi said in an Aug.
23 interview while in detention in Cairo. “This is an old
scenario that has been rehearsed before many times” under
ousted leader  Hosni Mubarak . It’s an “attempt to silence the
voice of freedom,” he said.  Afifi isn’t the only journalist facing pressure. In recent
weeks, the government has confiscated newspapers and appointed
an information minister from the Muslim Brotherhood’s ranks. It
also named new editors-in-chief of state-run newspapers,
spurring criticism from journalists that President Mohamed Mursi
is filling the industry with backers and Islamists.  Egyptian journalists and rights groups say the government,
which is backed by the Brotherhood -- itself outlawed during
Mubarak’s 30-year rule -- is attacking critical media while
turning a blind eye to those that support Mursi.  Information Minister Salah Abdel-Maqsoud has vowed to
protect media freedom while admonishing journalists -- some of
whom have accused Mursi’s party of planning massacres and
attacking security forces -- to be accurate and unbiased.  ‘Welcome Criticism’  “The government and the president welcome constructive
criticism,” Abdel-Maqsoud told state-run Al-Ahram in an Aug. 26
interview. “What we don’t want are campaigns of skepticism,
image-distortion and distracting the public away from the main
issues.”  Afifi was released on Aug. 23 after Mursi issued a decree
barring the detention of journalists awaiting trial. His trial
resumes Sept. 16. His predecessor, Ibrahim Eissa, was sentenced
to two months in prison in 2008 for spreading rumors and
inciting fear by writing about Mubarak’s health. Mubarak
pardoned him. Eissa is now the editor-in-chief of Al-Tahrir, an
independent newspaper that’s critical of the Brotherhood.  “There have been cases of violations by some publications
and television channels, but there have also been violations by
the state through the use of laws that must be reviewed” in a
country that now says it’s committed to freedom and democracy,
said Ayman Al-Sayyad, an executive consultant at the Cairo-based
Mohamed Hassanein Heikal Foundation for Arab Journalism.  ‘Stifle Freedom’  Television talk show host Tawfik Okasha faces allegations
of inciting supporters to kill Mursi. Okasha in June  accused  the
Brotherhood of coordinating with Hamas, Hezbollah and Qatar to
set fire to buildings and police stations during last year’s
revolt, under the supervision of U.S., Iranian, British and
Turkish intelligence agencies.  His privately owned Al-Faraeen channel was ordered off the
air Aug. 9. It was an expected decision “given the battle
between me and the Brotherhood,” Okasha said in an interview.  The Aug. 11 edition of Afifi’s Al-Dostour was prevented
from being distributed because it allegedly insulted Mursi.
Afifi was charged with publishing rumors and false news. In
June, days before Mursi was confirmed president, Al-Dostour said
the Brotherhood was planning the “massacre of the century” if
Mursi failed in his electoral campaign.  “This is part of a systematic plan by the Muslim
Brotherhood to stifle freedom of the press and oppress
writers,” said Ibrahim Khalil, the former editor-in-chief of
state-run newspaper Rose al-Yousef, who was dismissed as part of
the new appointments. Khalil faces lawsuits filed by the
Brotherhood’s leader, Mohammed Badie, for allegedly publishing
false news that was later aired on state-run television.  State-Run Papers  Egypt ’s state-run Al-Akhbar newspaper this month refused to
print an article criticizing the Brotherhood, writer Youssif El-
Qaeed said. The article, which denounced the Brotherhood for
allegedly beating journalist Khaled Salah for criticizing Mursi,
was banned by the editor-in-chief, Mohamed Hassan El-Banna, El-
Qaeed said. The article was later published in Al-Tahrir.  Al-Akhbar also allegedly pulled an article by Abla al-
Rowaini from its Aug. 10 edition because she criticized the
appointment by the Islamist-dominated upper house of parliament
of editors-in-chief at newspapers affiliated with the
government, according to Al-Tahrir, which published the piece.  El-Banna denies both charges.  “No articles got barred,” he said in a telephone
interview. “Al-Rowaini’s article wasn’t published that day
because we were in the process of revamping the newspaper,”
adding that his own daily column was also halted.  El-Qaeed “wasn’t a contractor and I used my prerogative as
editor-in-chief to prioritize other writers. These claims are
false,” El-Banna said. He said he also rejects charges that
Egypt’s press is being muzzled or intimidated.  No Limits  After the revolution, “freedom has been loosened with no
sense of responsibility. This is normal, after many years of
bottling it all in, but it also calls for regulations as per
internationally approved codes,” El-Banna said.  At least 16 channels have been added since the revolt, said
Rasha Abdulla, an associate professor and former chairwoman of
journalism at the American University of Cairo.  More lawsuits against those who insult the Brotherhood
should be expected, said Abdel-Moniem Abdel-Maqsoud, the group’s
legal adviser and brother of the information minister.  There is a “vilification campaign” targeting the
Brotherhood, Abdel-Maqsoud said in an interview. “To criticize
and object to the performance of the Brotherhood or its party is
a non-negotiable right of media channels, and no one interferes
with that. However, news fabrication, spreading lies or insults
are what we will legally chase.”  Lost Credibility  The U.S. has voiced concern about the clampdown and is
“watching it closely,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said Aug. 16. “Freedom of the press, freedom of
expression are fundamental tenets of vibrant, strong
democracies.”  State media, which for decades was used by Mubarak and his
predecessors,  Anwar Sadat  and Gamal Abdel Nasser, to attack the
opposition, have lost much of their credibility, said Shahira
Amin, the former deputy head of state-run Nile TV. Amin
announced in the final days of last year’s uprising that she was
quitting because of restrictions on her ability to report.
The government this month banned state-run media from
interviewing Israeli commentators. In June, seven board members
of the Egyptian  Syndicate of Journalists  withdrew from a meeting
with the speaker of the Shura Council after objecting to the
upper house’s interference in state media.  “It’s an all-out war by the Brotherhood against
liberties,” said Gamal Fahmy, a deputy at the syndicate, which
represents the industry’s workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  