-- Emerging-Market Stocks Retreat for Third Day on Growth Concerns
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-08-28T13:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/emerging-market-stocks-retreat-for-third-day-on-growth-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped for a
third day, sending the benchmark index to its lowest level in
more than three weeks, as concern deepened that the global
economic slowdown will curb corporate earnings.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.4 percent to 956.95
as of 9:07 a.m. in New York, poised for its longest losing
streak in a month and the lowest close since Aug. 3.  China
Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  sank to a six-week low as profit trailed
analysts’ estimates.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  retreated 3.4
percent, leading a gauge of raw-materials stocks to the biggest
decline among 10 industries. Hungary’s BUX Index rallied for a
second day, while the forint weakened 1 percent against the euro
after the central bank unexpectedly cut  interest rates .  Exporters led the MSCI index’s  decline  after Japan’s
government downgraded its assessment of the economy for the
first time in 10 months, citing risks from a further slowdown in
global growth. The world economic situation is “severe” and
“complicated,”  Wang Chao , China’s vice commerce minister, said
at a forum in Beijing today.  “Growth in emerging markets is going to continue to be
disappointing,” Alain Bokobza , the head of global asset-
allocation strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television.  Sensex Drops  MSCI Inc.’s indexes of developing-nation raw-materials,
energy and industrial companies sank at least 0.5 percent. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slipped 0.2 percent. The BSE
India Sensitive Index dropped 0.3 percent on concern the
political standoff between the ruling Congress Party and the
main opposition will delay economic reforms. Russia’s Micex
Index slipped 0.1 percent.  The MSCI emerging-market gauge has climbed 4.4 percent this
year, trailing the 8.5 percent increase for the MSCI World Index
of developed-nation shares. The emerging-markets index trades at
12 times reported earnings, compared with 15 for the MSCI World,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Data on second-quarter U.S. gross domestic product is due
tomorrow before an Aug. 31 speech by Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  at an annual meeting in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of east European,
Middle Eastern and African credit-default swaps fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 238 today. The extra yield
investors demand to own emerging-market bonds over U.S.
Treasuries was little changed at 320, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Currencies Weaken  The forint headed for the biggest decline in four weeks.
The Magyar Nemzeti Bank lowered the two-week deposit rate by 25
basis points to 6.75 percent, the first cut since April 2010.
Seventeen economists in a Bloomberg survey projected the bank
would leave rates unchanged while one forecast the reduction.
The BUX index increased 0.1 percent.  Poland’s zloty depreciated 0.5 percent versus the euro
after  Marek Belka , the central bank governor, said in an
interview with Radio PiN in Warsaw that prospects for cutting
interest rates have increased. The ruble weakened 0.7 percent
against the dollar.  The Bloomberg JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index slipped less than
0.1 percent, the third day of declines.  Yuan  forwards fell,
trading at the biggest discount to the onshore rate since March
2009, on speculation China’s government will favor a weaker
currency to support exports.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  sank 1.4 percent, the biggest drop
among emerging-market equity gauges tracked by Bloomberg.  TPK
Holding Co. (3673)  and  Chimei Innolux Corp. (3481)  slumped at least 5.9
percent in Taipei after the consumer-electronics companies
announced plans to raise capital.  Bumi Tumbles  “Investors are worried this would dilute the earnings per
share” of both companies, Peggy Lee, an analyst at Capital
Management Co., said by phone from Taipei today.  China Southern, Asia’s biggest carrier by passengers, sank
2.8 percent. Net income fell 85 percent to 424 million yuan ($67
million), under international accounting standards, as the
economic slowdown eroded travel demand and fuel costs rose.  AngloGold Ashanti , the third-largest producer of the metal,
retreated to the lowest level since July 23. Gold slipped 0.4
percent in New York while copper lost 0.6 percent.  PT Bumi Resources, Asia’s biggest power-station coal
exporter, tumbled 15 percent in Jakarta for the largest slide
since May 2010 and the biggest decline in the MSCI emerging
markets index.  Shanghai Rally  PT Recapital Asset Management, an investment fund
management group, didn’t repay Bumi $231 million that was due
Aug. 27, London-listed Bumi Plc, which owns 29 percent of Bumi
Resources, said in a statement today. Bumi Resources was also
cut to underperform from neutral at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.,
Southeast Asia’s top-ranked investment bank.  Bumi Resources has fallen 19 percent in two days after
reporting a first-half loss of $322 million. The slump is
“irrational” and the company’s sales and growth are
“operationally sound,”  Dileep Srivastava , a director at Bumi
Resources, said in an e-mailed response to questions today.  India’s Sensex index fell for a third day. The  Bharatiya
Janata Party  renewed its demand for Prime Minister  Manmohan
Singh ’s exit amid a sixth day of protests in parliament today.
The ruling Congress Party is seeking to end two years of policy
gridlock in the current parliamentary session to revive an
economy growing at the slowest pace in three years.  The Shanghai Composite Index, a gauge of mainland-listed
shares traded mostly by Chinese investors, climbed 0.9 percent
amid speculation state-owned companies will increase stock
buybacks.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019)  advanced 10 percent on plans
to spend as much as 5 billion yuan ($787 million) purchasing its
own shares. Brazil’s Bovespa Index rose for the first time in
four days, climbing 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  