-- Hertz’s Dollar Buyout Delays High-Grade Goals: Corporate Finance
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o   a n d   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2012-08-28T14:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/hertz-s-dollar-buyout-delays-high-grade-goals-corporate-finance.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) ’s $2.6
billion purchase of  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG)  will
increase total debt by as much as 28 percent and delay the junk-
rated company’s long-sought ascent to investment grade.  Hertz obtained $1.95 billion in financing to support its
buyout and will assume $1.6 billion in  Dollar Thrifty ’s
obligations.  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based Hertz’s credit-default
swaps, which rise as confidence in a borrower’s creditworthiness
diminishes, increased 6.6 basis points yesterday, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.  Hertz Chief Executive Officer Mark Frissora said on an Aug.
27 conference call that achieving an investment-grade rating was
still the company’s “ultimate goal,” even as the acquisition
boosts its debt to 4 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization.  Standard & Poor’s  placed its B+
rating on the second-most leveraged U.S. auto-rental company on
watch for a possible reduction, citing the increase in debt.  “The acquisition is a positive for the business profile,
but they’re adding a lot of debt and we need to see what it does
to the financial profile,” Betsy Snyder, an analyst at S&P,
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Credit-default swaps tied to the debt of Hertz, which has
been trying to acquire Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty for
almost five years, rose to 549.4 basis points yesterday, CMA
data show. That means investors pay $549,400 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt for five years.  Capital Costs  Moody’s Investors Service gives the car-rental company a B1
corporate rating, four levels below investment grade and
equivalent to the S&P designation. The weighted average fixed
coupon on Hertz’s debt is 7.04 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The average yield on the bonds of high-risk U.S. companies,
with ratings below Baa3 by Moody’s and under BBB- by S&P, was
7.31 percent yesterday compared with 3.03 percent for
investment-grade firms, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data.  “A downgrade, if any, would be limited to one notch,”
S&P’s Snyder wrote in a report yesterday, adding that this was
Hertz’s third and most expensive attempt to buy Dollar Thrifty.  Hertz’s total debt to gross Ebitda will increase to 4 times
after the acquisition from 3.6 times as of June 30, according to
an Aug. 27 investor presentation. That puts the company’s
leverage second only among its peers to the 4.6 times of  Avis
Budget Group Inc. (CAR) , Bloomberg data show.  Total Debt  The auto-rental company reported a 7.4 percent increase in
revenue during the second quarter ended June 30, to $2.23
billion from $2.07 billion in the comparable year-ago period, it
said in an Aug. 1 regulatory filing. Net income was $92.9
million, compared with $60.1 million a year earlier and total
debt was $12.5 billion.  Hertz began its pursuit of Dollar Thrifty in April 2007 and
made a formal bid in 2010 of about $1.2 billion that  its
shareholders  rejected. Hertz made another offer last year that
it later withdrew, citing market conditions.  The company will see $160 million in cost savings and sales
growth from the acquisition, Frissora said on yesterday’s call.  Barclays Plc, Bank of America Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG
are providing a $1.95 billion bridge financing, according to a
commitment letter filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission yesterday.  Bridge Financing  The loan will pay interest initially at 5.375 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate with a 1
percent minimum on the lending benchmark, according to the
filing. If the financing is not repaid in the first three months
following the closing date, the margin will increase 0.5
percentage point every three months.  Bridge facilities are short-term loans that usually mature
in one year and are often used as backstops to bond offerings or
longer-dated bank debt.  Hertz may sell about $1.45 billion in bonds and add as much
as $500 million to an existing loan, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be identified because
the details are private. “The final split would be dependent on
market conditions when it’s time to execute,” Richard Broome, a
spokesman for Hertz, said in an e-mailed statement.  A $1.5 billion bond offering from a company with the name
recognition of Hertz would be well received, Margie Patel, a
 money manager  at  Wells Fargo & Co . who oversees about $1
billion, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Insatiable Demand’  “Larger names are particularly doing well,” she said
about the current fixed-income market. “There’s an insatiable
demand for paper.”  The company’s $1 billion of 6.75 percent notes due in April
2019 were quoted at 105.5 cents on the dollar at 10:05 a.m. in
New York to yield 5.74 percent, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. That’s down from 106.5 cents on Aug. 7, which was the
highest ever for that bond, Trace data show.  The average yield on B rated debt was 7.21 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Hertz’s $1.38 billion  term loan  due in March 2018 pays
interest at 2.75 percentage points more than Libor with a 1
percent minimum, Bloomberg data show. The debt was quoted at
99.4 cents on the dollar today, according to Bloomberg prices.  KDP Investment Advisors Inc. lowered its default-risk
ranking on Hertz to the equivalent of a B2 rating from Moody’s
and B from S&P, according to a report yesterday. Analyst Kip Penniman cited higher overall leverage, incremental first-lien
debt outstanding, additional junk-bond issuance and lower cash
balances as reasons for the change.  “Hertz is focused on achieving credit ratios consistent
with an investment-grade rating,” Evan Mann, an analyst at debt
research firm GimmeCredit LLC wrote in a July 31 report. An
“acquisition of Dollar Thrifty could cause the company to
revisit or delay its investment-grade aspirations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net ;
David Holley in New York at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  