-- ESPN Reaches $5.6 Billion Deal to Expand MLB Coverage
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-28T20:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/espn-said-to-reach-5-6-billion-deal-for-major-league-baseball.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN reached a new
eight-year deal with  Major League Baseball , extending the cable
network’s rights to more games, studio programming and online
coverage through 2021.  The network will spend $5.6 billion, about double what it
currently pays baseball for domestic and international TV
rights, digital programming and radio coverage, according to a
person with knowledge of the situation who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly.  ESPN, the dominant sports channel, extended its commitment
to baseball as it confronts stepped-up competition from NBC and
CBS cable networks and a potential new entrant from Fox. As
media companies bid up the price of TV rights, cable carriers
have resisted absorbing the added costs, leading to contract
disputes and blackouts.  “The enormous scope of what we acquired will provide fans
with more live baseball and more ways to access baseball content
than ever before,” John Skipper, ESPN’s president, said in the
statement.  Under the accord, the Bristol, Connecticut-based sports
cable network will gain rights to 10 additional regular season
games and more footage highlights for use in multiple media, the
league and ESPN said today in a statement. The network will also
face fewer blackouts where local channels also have rights.  Wild-Card Game  The deal, starting in 2014, also gives ESPN rights to one
annual wild-card game, a playoff match-up that baseball added
this year, and any tiebreakers that may occur.  Sports Business Daily reported the agreement earlier today.  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , closed unchanged at
$49.63 in  New York . Shares of the world’s largest entertainment
company have gained 32 percent this year. Disney ranks fifth in
year-to-date return in the  S&P 500 Media Index. (S5MEDA)   Television networks, led by ESPN, are Disney’s biggest and
most profitable business, contributing 46 percent of revenue
last quarter and 66 percent of operating income, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  