-- Eurasia Drilling to Tap Middle East, North African Rig Market
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-08-28T12:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/eurasia-drilling-to-tap-middle-east-north-african-rig-market.html
Eurasia Drilling Co. (EDCL) , the largest
Russian oilfield services company by market value, plans to
expand into the  Middle East  and North Africa to diversify.  The company, which increased its Russian onshore drilling
market share to 29 percent in the first half from 25 percent
last year,  bought  two rigs in the Iraqi region of Kurdistan with
a commitment to purchase a third. Eurasia plans to secure more
drilling contracts in  Iraq , said Kim Kruschwitz, a marketing
vice president.  “We would very much like to use this particular rather
small acquisition as a platform to do more in the Middle East,”
Chief Financial Officer  Richard Anderson  said on a conference
call today. “There are some asset groups for sale there and we
are looking at one or two of those.”  Eurasia expanded outside the former Soviet Union this year
for the first time in an attempt to break into new markets. It’s
also been building jack-up rigs at  Lamprell Plc (LAM) ’s shipyard in
the  United Arab Emirates  to increase offshore drilling in the
Caspian Sea.  The company will add 10 to 12 drilling rigs in 2012 and
2013 to its existing fleet of 258. It plans to increase onshore
drilling by about 16 percent to at least 5.6 million meters of
wells this year from 2011 after acquiring Russian assets from
 Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)   First-half  revenue  rose 24 percent to $1.6 billion up from
last year, the Moscow-based company said in a statement.
Earnings gained 24 percent to $187 million.  The company receives a higher average  day rate  for its rigs
in the Caspian Sea, compared with the  Gulf of Mexico , West
Africa and  North Sea , Kruschwitz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  