-- Dollar Appreciates as Economic Data Damp Stimulus Wagers
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-29T21:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/euro-near-8-week-high-as-italy-prepares-to-auction-debt.html
The dollar gained against most major
peers as the  Federal Reserve  said the  U.S. economy  continued to
expand “gradually,” damping speculation the central bank will
engage in a third round of quantitative easing.  The greenback appreciated against the euro and yen as
separate U.S. reports showed gross domestic product grew more
than previously estimated in the second quarter and pending home
sales in July exceeded forecasts. The Fed in its Beige Book
business survey said improvement in housing and retail sales in
July and early August helped outweigh weakness in manufacturing.
Sweden’s krona slumped to a four-week low against the euro.  “The Fed Beige Book was not quite as grim as some of the
other commentary we’ve heard from Fed officials,”  Omer Esiner ,
chief market analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage, said in a telephone
interview. “While the economy is certainly not recovering at a
pace that anyone should be satisfied with, it does suggest that
maybe we’re not yet at a point for QE3.”  The dollar gained 0.3 percent to $1.2530 per euro at 5 p.m.
 New York  time. The greenback strengthened 0.3 percent to 78.71
yen. Europe’s shared currency was little changed at 98.62 yen.  The euro may increase to $1.27 and potentially $1.30, Hans- Guenter Redeker, head of currency strategy at Morgan Stanley,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse”
with Caroline Hyde.  The euro has appreciated 1.2 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies, amid speculation policy makers
will succeed in stemming market turmoil. The dollar has declined
1.2 percent and the yen has fallen 1.9 percent.  Swedish Krona  Sweden’s krona fell against all but one of its most-traded
peers after the National Institute of  Economic Research  said
Sweden’s central bank will cut its main lending rate to 1
percent from 1.5 percent this year to support expansion.  The currency declined 0.5 percent to 8.3487 per euro after
dropping to 8.3715, the weakest level since Aug. 1. The krona
slid 0.8 percent to 6.6632 per dollar, after tumbling by as much
as 1 percent, the biggest intraday decline since July 6.  The Mexican peso decreased against most of its major peers
as a shutdown of refineries caused by Hurricane Isaac curbed
crude-oil demand. Mexican oil exports accounted for $27.1
billion in revenue in first six months of year, according to
preliminary data from a national statistics agency.  The peso fell 0.9 percent to 13.3088 per dollar after
declining as much as 1 percent to 13.3217, its lowest point
since Aug. 3.  Economic Expansion  A close of 13.2506 pesos per dollar or weaker would expose
the Mexican currency to 13.4710 followed by 13.7767 and
ultimately 14.6008,  MacNeil Curry , chief rates and currencies
technical strategist in New York at Bank of American Merrill
Lynch, wrote to clients today, citing technical factors.  Most regional reserve banks reported employment was
“holding steady or growing only slightly,” the Fed said in its
Beige Book business survey based on reports from its 12
districts.  The index of  pending home resales  climbed 2.4 percent,
exceeding the 1 percent gain median forecast of 39 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News , figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed. The gauge rose to 101.7, the
highest since April 2010.  ‘Stronger Dollar’  “The slightly better U.S. housing number provided a
push,”  Mike Moran , a senior currency strategist at  Standard
Chartered  in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It
solidified the stronger dollar.”  GDP climbed at a 1.7 percent annual rate from April through
June, up from an initial estimate of 1.5 percent, revised
Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington. The
figure followed a 2 percent first-quarter pace and matched the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “Recent housing-market reports, including data on sales of
existing and new homes, have been consistent with stabilization
and gradual recovery,”  Kathy Lien , managing director of foreign
exchange at BK Asset Management, an investment advisory firm in
New York, wrote today in a note to clients. “The rally in
equities and low level of  interest rates  have given investors
confidence to dip their toes back into the market.”  Bernanke will give a speech in two days at a meeting of
central bankers in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that may shed light on
the outlook for U.S. monetary policy as signs of an improving
economic outlook dull the case for more stimulus.  Spain, Italy  “More and more people are getting of the mindset that
Bernanke isn’t going to say anything new,” Brian Kim, a
currency strategist in  Stamford , Connecticut, at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said in a telephone interview. “You may see
euro-dollar come a little lower again on dollar strength because
some people might have been pricing in dollar weakness while
thinking about QE.”  Europe’s shared currency has climbed 2.5 percent against
the dollar since Aug. 1, the day before ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank may buy Spanish and Italian bonds
to cap borrowing costs. He will give a press conference on Sept.
6 in Frankfurt after the next meeting of policy makers.  Italy doesn’t need to tap the rescue fund at the moment
because measures by the government are starting to offset market
concerns, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said in an
interview with  Il Sole 24 Ore  published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  