-- Euro Advances as Van Rompuy Hints at Spain Rescue; Krone Gains
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-28T21:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/euro-advances-as-spain-sells-more-bills-than-target-krone-gains.html
The euro rose for the first time in
three days against the dollar after European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy  said the region’s rescue fund is ready for
rapid action to aid Spanish banks.  Europe’s shared currency climbed from a one-week low
against the yen after European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  canceled his trip to the annual  Jackson Hole  symposium
and Spain sold more bills than its maximum target at an auction.
Norway’s krone climbed to the strongest level in more than three
months against the dollar amid speculation the central bank will
refrain from lowering  interest rates  tomorrow.  “Van Rompuy’s comments are in keeping with the positive
sentiment in the market that we’re close to a deal,”  Michael Woolfolk , a senior currency strategist at  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK) , said in a telephone interview. “The move in the
euro is likely driven by expectations over the ECB’s willingness
to act to support euro-zone debt markets.”  The euro advanced 0.5 percent to $1.2565 at 5 p.m.  New York 
time. Europe’s shared currency rose 0.2 percent to 98.64 yen
after dropping to 97.89 yen, the weakest level since Aug. 20.
The dollar declined 0.3 percent to 78.51 yen.  The shared currency may appreciate following developments
out of Europe, according to  Mary Nicola , a New York-based
currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA. The firm has a year-end
target of $1.35 for the shared currency, according to a survey
conducted by Bloomberg.  ‘Positive Noises’  “We’ve had a lot of positive noises coming from a lot of
European officials over the course of the last few weeks,”
Nicola said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “We could see
further upside for the euro-dollar.”  The krone advanced against most of its major peers on
speculation the Oslo-based Norges Bank, which has cut its main
rate by 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, since
December, will leave its key policy rate at 1.50 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Norway ’s currency gained 0.2 percent to 5.8297 per dollar
after appreciating to 5.7974, the strongest level since May 8.  Finance ministers from the Group of Seven nations are
monitoring the risks posed by high  oil prices , according to a
G-7 joint statement issued today by the U.S. Treasury
Department. The G-7 nations called on oil-producing countries
such as Norway to increase output.  Kiwi Falls  New Zealand’s dollar fell versus most of its major
counterparts after dairy exporter Fonterra Cooperative Group
Ltd. cut its forecast for payments to farmers. The so-called
kiwi declined 0.5 percent to 80.46 U.S. cents and 0.8 percent to
63.17 yen.  The greenback will probably stay in the range from 78.15 to
79.14 yen as investors look for policy signals from this week’s
 Federal Reserve  meeting, according to Junichi Ishikawa, a Tokyo-
based analyst at IG Markets.  Van Rompuy  damped speculation that Spain will need a full
rescue, saying 100 billion euros ($126 billion) in banking aid
will tackle the country’s most pressing problem.  “Spain already has a large program to restructure its
financial sector, which deals with the most acute economic
challenge,” Van Rompuy said at a joint press conference with
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  in  Madrid  today. Spain
could tap other types of aid “if financial markets’ defiance
persists.”  No Draghi  Draghi won’t go to Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , because of the
workload foreseen in the next few days, an ECB spokesman in
 Frankfurt  said today. No Executive Board member will attend the
conference, according to the ECB.  The ECB’s Governing Council meets on Sept. 6 in Frankfurt
and Draghi is expected to announce details of the bank’s new
bond-buying program, a proposal that has been criticized by the
Bundesbank.  “It’s quite clear at this point that a bond purchase
program will materialize,”  Jens Nordvig , managing director of
currency research at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with
Eisen. “That is enough to underpin the market for now. It
doesn’t mean that the euro crisis has been solved, but it means
that global markets can trade better for the time being.”  The Spanish Treasury sold a combined 3.6 billion euros
($4.5 billion) of three- and six-month bills, more than the 3.5
billion euros it originally sought. The three-month securities
were auctioned at a yield of 0.946 percent, down from 2.434
percent at the previous sale on July 24.  Euro ‘Upside’  Italy also saw a decline in its funding costs today when it
sold 3.75 billion euros of zero-coupon and inflation-linked
bonds. The Treasury sold the zero-coupon securities to yield
3.064 percent, down almost 2 percentage points from the last
sale a month ago.  The euro advanced 0.7 percent in the past month, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. Sweden’s krona rose 2.8 percent to
lead gainers. The dollar fell 1.5 percent and the yen slid 1.6
percent. Australian dollar’s 2.6 percent drop paced decliners.  “The market is waiting for the ECB, to see what they will
do,” said  Steven Barrow , head of Group of 10 research at
Standard Bank Plc in London. “There’s more room for upside in
the euro over the next few weeks.” The euro may strengthen to
$1.30 over the next month, he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will speak in Jackson Hole on
Aug. 31. His address in 2010 preceded a second round of bond
purchases to help support the economic recovery.  The Dollar Index fell after a two-day gain as investors
weighed whether the Fed will embark on a third round of bond
purchases, known as quantitative easing.  The gauge, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to
track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.4 percent to 81.349. The index dropped to
81.221 on Aug. 23, the lowest level since June 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  