-- European Stocks Decline as Catalonia Seeks Aid; G4S Drops
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-08-28T15:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/european-stock-futures-drop.html
European (SXXP)  stocks declined to a three-
week low, snapping two days of gains, as the Spanish region of
Catalonia asked for a bailout from the central government and
Japan lowered an assessment of its economy.  G4S Plc (GFS)  dropped 2 percent after the security company said
that first-half profit slumped 73 percent.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
slipped.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  surged 19 percent after saying
it has started talks with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. over
possible cooperation.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.7 percent to 267.32 at
the close, its lowest level since Aug. 6. The benchmark measure
has still  risen 14 percent from this year’s low  on June 4 as
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do
whatever it takes to preserve the euro and the region’s
political leaders agreed to ease repayment terms on loans to
 Spain ’s banks.  “The world economy in the second quarter was the worst in
quite some time, and Japan is catching up now,” said Konstantin Giantiroglou, head of investment advisory at Neue Aargauer Bank
in Brugg,  Switzerland . “It’s a reaction to what’s going on and
it was overdue that they correct the assessment.”  Spain’s Catalonia region said it will ask for a 5 billion-
euro ($6.3 billion) loan from the country’s central government.
The Spanish cabinet approved a fund of as much as 18 billion
euros  on July 13 to help the most indebted regional governments
manage their financial deficits.  Japan’s Economy  Japan ’s government downgraded its view on personal
consumption, housebuilding,  exports , imports and industrial
output in the world’s third-largest economy. It also lowered its
assessment of the global economy.  The Cabinet Office said that risks to Japan’s economy
include a “further slowing down of overseas economies and sharp
fluctuations in the financial and capital markets,” according
to a monthly report released in  Tokyo  today.  Of the 314 companies listed on the Stoxx 600 that have
 reported  first-half net income, 183 have exceeded analysts’
estimates, while 125 have missed them, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes retreated in every western-
European market today, except for Iceland and Portugal. The
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index decreased less than 0.1 percent, while
 France ’s CAC 40 Index slid 0.9 percent.  Germany ’s DAX Index
dropped 0.6 percent.  Trading Volume  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was 24
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  In the U.S., a report today showed that a measure of
 consumer confidence  dropped in August. The Conference Board’s
gauge fell to 60.6 from 65.4 in July. That missed the  median
forecast  of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  G4S retreated 2 percent to 261 pence.  Net income  fell to 29
million pounds ($46 million) from 108 million pounds a year
earlier after failing to fulfill a staffing contract for the
London Olympic and Paralympic Games.  “We were deeply disappointed that we had significant
issues with the London 2012 Olympics contract,” Chief Executive
Officer Nick Buckles said in a statement. market.’’  Spanish lenders dragged a gauge of European banks lower.
Santander slipped 0.8 percent to 5.57 euros.  Banco de Sabadell
SA (SAB)  fell 0.8 percent to 2.10 euros, while  Bankia SA (BKIA) , which was
nationalized earlier this year, lost 4.2 percent to 1.17 euros.  Vestas Rallies  Vestas jumped 19 percent to 40.19 kroner, its highest price
in three months. Speculation that the world’s largest turbine
maker may be a bid target rose after the Sunday Times said on
July 1 that the company may put itself up for sale.  Ipsen SA (IPN)  gained 5 percent to 19.49 euros after reporting
 first-half sales  of 630 million euros, exceeding the  average
analyst estimate  of 607 million euros. Full-year sales for
specialty-care drugs will grow at the upper range of the
company’s previous forecast of 8 percent to 10 percent.  CFAO SA (CFAO)  advanced 1.5 percent to 37.45 euros after Toyota
Tsusho Corp. offered to buy 70 percent of the French company’s
shares for 1.62 billion euros. Toyota Tsusho, the trading arm of
Japan’s largest carmaker, already owns 30 percent of CFAO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  