-- Texas Voter District Maps Rejected by U.S. Judges
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/texas-voter-district-maps-rejected-by-u-s-judges.html
Redrawn congressional and state
assembly districts in  Texas  were rejected by a federal court in
 Washington , dealing a blow to Governor  Rick Perry  and the
Republican-controlled legislature’s efforts to redraw the
state’s political landscape.  The three-judge panel, in a decision yesterday, said Texas
failed to show that the maps for state assembly and
congressional districts created by the legislature last year
“do not have the purpose or effect of denying or abridging the
right to vote on account of race, color, or membership in a
language minority group” under Section 5 of the Voting Rights
Act of 1965.  “We conclude that Texas has not met its burden to show
that the U.S. Congressional and State House Plans will not have
a retrogressive effect, and that the U.S. Congressional and
State Senate Plans were not enacted with discriminatory
purpose,” according to the 72-page opinion.  The ruling leaves unsettled the question as to whether the
state’s plan to use temporary maps approved by a different court
will face legal challenges that could derail the November
election.  “If they try to hold the November elections under the
interim maps, we’ll all be running to the  Supreme Court  for a
stay,” Luis Roberto Vera Jr., general counsel for the  League of
United Latin American Citizens , said of minority-rights groups
opposing the maps. He spoke in a telephone interview.  ‘Flawed Ruling’  The election will proceed as planned under the interim
maps, which were drawn up by a federal court in  San Antonio  and
used for the primary election on May 29, Texas Attorney General
 Greg Abbott  said in a statement.  Abbott also said his office “will immediately take steps
to appeal this flawed decision to the U.S. Supreme Court.”
Perry supports the appeal, Lucy Nashed, a spokeswoman for the
governor, said in an e-mail.  “This flawed federal court ruling must be swiftly appealed
to protect Texas from the federal government’s infringing on our
state’s rights,” Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst, who is
attending the  Republican National Convention  in Tampa,  Florida ,
said in an e-mailed statement.  If Texas doesn’t offer the San Antonio judges a remedial
redistricting plan for use in November, then the panel must
decide whether the interim election districts created for the
primaries offer enough relief or must be adjusted further so
they can be used in the general election, Trey Martinez Fischer,
chairman of the Texas Legislature’s Mexican American Legislative
Caucus, said on a conference call with reporters.  Boundaries ‘Adjusted’  Voting-rights groups will meet to decide whether to ask the
San Antonio court to make changes to the interim maps “in
advance of the 2012 election, or whether it is sufficient to
wait for relief in 2014,” he said. The Mexican American
Legislative Caucus opposed the state’s maps.  Michael Li, a  Dallas  election lawyer, said that while Texas
will definitely hold November elections, some district
boundaries may have to be “adjusted” to correct discrimination
identified in yesterday’s ruling.  If such boundary adjustments are necessary, Li said in an
e-mail, “there will need to be ’jungle primaries’ that day,”
in which both parties hold primary elections in those districts
on the same day as the general election, followed by a run-off
between the top two vote recipients a month later.  1996 Election  “That happened in 1996 in several congressional
districts” in Texas, Li said.  The  Justice Department  was pleased with yesterday’s ruling,
Nanda Chitre, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Texas sued the administration of President  Barack Obama  in
July 2011 seeking so-called pre-clearance for the state’s new
maps under the Voting Rights Act, a step required of all states
with a history of voting-rights violations.  The legislature redrew electoral maps after the state grew
enough to gain four seats in Congress, adding almost 4.3 million
residents since 2000, according to the 2010 census.  The U.S. objected to two proposed congressional districts
and five state assembly districts. Several minority groups
objected to an additional state senate district.  U.S. district judges Beryl Howell and Rosemary Collyer and
Circuit Judge  Thomas Griffith  ruled in November that Texas used
an “improper standard or methodology” when determining whether
minorities had the ability to elect their preferred candidates.  Bench Trial  Griffith and Collyer were appointed to the court by
President  George W. Bush . Howell was appointed by Obama.  During a two-week bench trial in January, judges heard
testimony from Texas legislators, their staffs and expert
witnesses who analyzed voter data in the state.  In Congressional District 23, or CD 23, a sprawling
district stretching from San Antonio to El Paso in far western
Texas, the judges said Texas tried to make the district more
Republican without changing its Hispanic population levels. The
evidence showed that more than 600,000 people were moved into or
out of the district to address overpopulation of 149,000,
according to the ruling.  “The mapdrawers consciously replaced many of the
district’s active Hispanic voters with low-turnout Hispanic
voters in an effort to strengthen the voting power of CD 23’s
Anglo citizens,” Griffith said in the opinion. “In other
words, they sought to reduce Hispanic voters’ ability to elect
without making it look like anything in CD 23 had changed.”  ‘Retrogressive’ Plan  Since minorities accounted for 89 percent of the state’s
population growth, Texas was required to draw at least one of
the new congressional districts in a way that favored minority
candidates, the Justice Department argued.  “We have concluded that Texas’s failure to draw a new
minority district does in fact make the enacted plan
retrogressive,” Griffith said.  The judges found that the congressional plans were made
with discriminatory purpose, though they said there’s no direct
evidence of it. During the past four decades, Texas has “found
itself in court” during every redistricting cycle and has lost
every time, the judges added.  Griffith, in the opinion, said that the new voter maps
carved so-called economic engines out of black districts in
Houston and Dallas. The Astrodome, the Medical Center, a rail
line and Houston Baptist University were all removed from the
district of U.S. Representative  Al Green , a Democrat, as was his
district office.  ‘No Surgery’  “No surgery was performed on the districts of Anglo
incumbents,” Griffith said. “In fact, every Anglo member of
Congress retained his or her district office. Anglo boundaries
were redrawn to include particular country clubs and, in one
case, the school belonging to the incumbent’s grandchildren.”  Texas is one of 16 jurisdictions with a history of voting
rights violations that need approval from either the Justice
Department or a special panel of federal judges in Washington to
change election procedures under Section 5 of the Voting Rights
Act.  The state is awaiting a ruling from a different three-judge
panel in Washington on the legality of a law requiring voters to
show photo identification at the polls. Texas officials told the
court the state needs a ruling by the end of the month in order
to implement the measure for the November election.  The case is Texas v. U.S., 11-cv-01303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in San Antonio
at   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  