-- Mexico to Boost Auto Output 38% Within Three Years, Agency Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-08-28T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/mexico-to-boost-auto-output-38-within-three-years-agency-says.html
Mexico  will boost annual auto output
by 1 million vehicles within three years, a 38 percent jump from
last year, as foreign manufacturers use the country as an export
base, said Carlos Guzman, head of the nation’s investment
promotion agency.  Investments already announced by carmakers will allow
Mexico, the world’s fourth-largest auto exporter, to increase
annual production from last year’s 2.6 million units, Guzman,
president of  ProMexico , said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg’s Mexico City office. Surging car and aerospace sales
will help Mexican exports climb by about 15 percent this year to
a record of around $400 billion, he said, surpassing a $350
billion high reached last year.  Mexico’s economy is proving resilient as its  auto industry 
booms, with both vehicle production and exports reaching their
highest levels in the first seven months of the year for any
January to July period, the nation’s Automobile Industry
Association, or AMIA, said on Aug. 6. New plants announced by
companies such as  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and  Audi
AG (NSU)  will help the nation close the gap with  Korea , the biggest
exporter after Germany and Japan, Guzman said.  “Other companies are exploring the possibility of opening
facilities in Mexico,” Guzman said. “We expect a very good
period of five to seven years in Mexico in terms of growing
exports” for cars, he said.  Auto Growth  Manufacturers are opening new plants in Latin America’s
second-largest economy as wages in China rise and higher  oil
prices  increase costs for Asian companies looking to tap
consumers in the U.S., the world’s largest economy.  Car companies announced $5.3 billion in new investments
from January through April and $2.8 billion last year, according
to the Economy Ministry.  Pirelli & C. (PC)  SpA and  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) 
have said they plan to open new parts plants focused on the auto
industry.  Mexico’s  gross domestic product  beat economists’ forecasts
for growth in the second quarter, expanding 0.9 percent from the
first three months of 2012, an annualized rate of 3.5 percent,
as exports increased 5.8 percent from a year earlier. Growth has
topped Brazil’s for the past year with the economy in the U.S.,
the buyer of 80 percent of Mexico’s exports, projected to expand
2.15 percent this year, faster than 1.8 percent in 2011,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Mexico will attract foreign direct investment of as much as
$20 billion this year and $20 billion to $25 billion annually in
coming years, Guzman said.  Foreign investment fell 9.2 percent in the first half of
the year to $9.62 billion from preliminary figures for the same
period in 2011, Mexico’s  Economy Ministry  said on Aug. 23. The
nation received $20.4 billion in investments last year.  Guzman said that aerospace exports are also expanding and
probably will rise to as much as $5.2 billion this year from
$4.5 billion in 2011, citing estimates from the Mexican
Aerospace Industry Association.  “In 15 to 20 years, we will be talking about aerospace
manufacturing in Mexico like we are talking about automotive
manufacturing” today, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  