-- Fed to Push Yields Lower, Barclay’s Pond Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-08-28T14:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/fed-to-push-u-s-yields-lower-barclays-s-pond-says-tom-keene.html
Treasury yields will decline further
with the  Federal Reserve  likely to take steps prior to the end
of the year to provide more monetary stimulus to the economy,
according to Michael Pond of Barclays Plc.  “The data hasn’t been consistently good and we think there
is certainly chance for additional policy stimulus in September
and increasingly likelihood by the end of the year,” Pond, co-
head of interest-rate strategy in  New York  at Barclays, said in
a radio interview on Bloomberg Surveillance with Tom Keene and
Ken Prewitt. The drop this month in Treasuries “where 10-year
yields got to 1.86 percent and seemed to be headed toward 2
percent was a little bit overdone. The down-move in yields can
continue.”  Treasury yields rose to 1.86 percent on Aug. 21 from a
record low 1.379 percent July 25, translating into losses for
investors of 1.6 percent, the most over a four-week period since
December 2010, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The
benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose for a second day, with
yields falling to 1.63 percent, the lowest since Aug. 13.  While employment and retail sales rose last month, U.S.
economic growth the next two years will remain below the 3.2
percent annual average since 1948, according to Bloomberg
surveys. Subdued inflation,  Europe ’s debt turmoil, mandated U.S.
spending cuts and tax increases after the presidential election,
as well as possible Fed purchases of debt next month are all
boosting the allure of bonds.  Fed Minutes  Last week’s slide in yields followed the release of minutes
from the July 31-Aug. 1 meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee , which signaled policy makers are ready to add to
record stimulus unless they are convinced the recovery is
accelerating. That means the Fed may add a third round of bond
purchases, or quantitative easing, to the $2.3 trillion it’s
bought since 2008.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has an opportunity to expand
on his views in an Aug. 31 speech at the Kansas City Fed’s
annual economic symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “The FOMC minutes were very clear that many on the
committee judged that accommodation was needed fairly soon
unless there was a substantial and sustainable strengthening in
the recovery,” said Pond, the top rated Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities analyst the past three years in
Institutional Investor magazine polls of more than 890 firms
that manage about $10.2 trillion in assets. “It’s not clear
over the past month that we have gotten that. Bernanke wants to
let the markets know he can do more.”  Inflation Expectations  The Fed is in the process of swapping shorter-term
Treasuries in its holdings with those due in six to 30 years to
put downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs.  The  five-year, five-year  forward break-even inflation rate,
which projects the pace of consumer price increases starting in
2017, was 2.55 percent on Aug. 23. The measure, which the Fed
prefers to look at in determining inflation expectations and
monetary policy, is down from the year’s high of 2.78 percent on
March 19. The rate is determined using yields on nominal as well
as Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS.  “The market is pricing in modest inflation five years
out,” Pond said. “This tells you the Fed is going to” ease
policy further “regardless of the inflation outlook or where
inflation is as long as they are concerned about growth. If they
are worried about growth they think inflation is heading down
from their perspective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  