-- Fed Regional Bank Directors Expected Rebound in Economy
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-08-28T19:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/fed-regional-bank-directors-expected-rebound-in-economy.html
Directors at the  Federal Reserve ’s
regional banks during meetings in June and July said the U.S.
expansion “slowed somewhat in recent months” and predicted it
would pick up in the medium term.  “Most directors still expected economic conditions to
improve over the medium term, although some expressed
considerable uncertainty about the near-term prospects for
economic growth,” according to minutes released today in
Washington summarizing the discussions.  Employment growth was “sluggish” and the elevated jobless
rate “remained a source of concern,” board members of the 12
banks said, according to the minutes. Directors reported
evidence consumer spending slowed and cited risks from drought
in the U.S., “uncertainty” about the  federal budget  and
strains in global financial markets.  The report gives central bankers anecdotal evidence on the
economy before their next meeting Sept. 12-13, when they will
weigh whether additional accommodation is needed to spur the
expansion. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has an opportunity to
clarify his policy views in an Aug. 31 speech at a forum for
central bankers in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  The world’s largest economy will expand 1.8 percent in the
third quarter and 2.1 percent in the fourth, according to the
median of 75 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Gross domestic
product grew 2 percent in the first quarter of this year before
decelerating to 1.5 percent in the following three months.  Change Requests  Recommendations about changing the discount rate, which has
been at 0.75 percent since February 2010, were the same as in
meetings since December. Members of the Boston Fed’s board of
directors urged a quarter-percentage point reduction, to 0.5
percent, while the Kansas City Fed repeated its request for a
quarter-point rise. The other 10 banks did not request a change.  Each of the Fed’s 12 regional banks has a nine-member board
of directors that requests discount-rate changes. The requests
are subject to final review and determination by the Fed Board,
which consists of the central bank’s seven Washington-based
governors. They review requests about every two weeks.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at
1,411.94 as of 2:41 p.m. in  New York  and has advanced 12 percent
 this year . The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury declined
0.02 percentage point to 1.62 percent.  Longer-term inflation expectations “remained stable”
because of lower energy prices, the directors said. Crude oil
futures fell to this year’s low of $77.95 a barrel on June 21 in
New York trading. The core personal consumption expenditures
index, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, hasn’t
exceeded 2 percent since November 2008.  Automobile sales had “solid increases” while the housing
market showed signs of “continued, though uneven,
improvements,” including a gain in home sales and higher prices
in a number of areas, the directors said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  