-- Fidelity’s Abigail Johnson Consolidates Control
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-08-28T23:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/fidelity-names-abigail-johnson-president.html
Fidelity Investments  named Abigail P. Johnson president, putting the daughter of Chairman Edward C.
“Ned” Johnson III in charge of all the key businesses at the
second-largest mutual-fund company in the U.S.  Johnson, 50, will oversee asset management, retail and
institutional brokerage, retirement and benefits services, the
Boston-based firm said today in a statement. While she will
report to her father, who remains Fidelity’s chief executive
officer, the appointment makes Abigail Johnson the highest-
ranking woman in the fund industry.  Abigail Johnson is now the clear successor to 82-year-old
Ned Johnson, even though he has not said when he might retire
after running the company since 1977. At various times, Robert
L. Reynolds, the former chief operating officer, and Ellyn
McColgan, the former head of mutual-fund sales, had been
considered possible leaders at the firm, which has been
controlled by the Johnson family since it was founded by Ned
Johnson’s father in 1946.  “It finally answers the question everyone’s been asking
for years: Who gets to run this financial juggernaut?” John
Bonnanzio, editor of Fidelity Insight, a independent newsletter
based in Wellesley,  Massachusetts , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s going to be Abby Johnson at some point.”  2010 Split  The elder Johnson split control of the firm in May 2010,
naming his daughter head of all client-focused businesses and
hiring Ronald O’Hanley from  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  as
head of asset management. O’Hanley, who continues to oversee
asset management, will report to  Abigail Johnson , Fidelity said
today.  Johnson, who started her career at Fidelity in 1988 as a
mutual  fund manager , has worked in almost every major division
at the company. She was named head of the firm’s mutual-fund
unit in 2001 and put in charge of Fidelity’s retirement business
in 2005. In 2007, the company also gave her oversight of
corporate-retirement services and fund sales to individuals.  “She’s spent a number of years at Fidelity in a variety of
positions,” Reynolds, now president and chief executive officer
of Boston-based Putnam Investments LLC,  said in a telephone
interview. “It was destined that she would get this job. It’s
well deserved and about time.”  Employees control 51 percent of the voting shares in
Fidelity, and the Johnson family owns the other 49 percent. Ned
and Abigail Johnson each hold at least 10 percent, according to
regulatory filings.  ‘Actively Involved’  “Abby will oversee all these corporate groups and will be
involved in day-to-day activities,” spokeswoman Anne Crowley
said in a telephone interview. “Ned continues to be actively
involved in running the company and doesn’t have any plans to
step aside from those roles.”  Abigail Johnson’s responsibilities will cover every major
Fidelity business except Devonshire Investors, Crowley said.
Devonshire, named for the Boston street where the firm is
headquartered, manages investments for FMR LLC, Fidelity’s
corporate holding company, and its shareholders.  Johnson’s promotion comes as Fidelity has trailed money-
management rivals such as  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based
Vanguard Group Inc., known for its index-based funds, and
Pacific Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
home of famed bond-picker  Bill Gross .  Unseating Fidelity  Vanguard, which in 2010 unseated Fidelity as the largest
mutual-fund firm, has gathered $80 billion in new client money
in the year ended July 31, the most in the industry, followed by
Pimco’s $31.6 billion, according to research firm Morningstar
Inc. Investors withdrew $16.2 billion from Fidelity funds during
the same period. Morningstar’s numbers include only long-term
stock and bond assets and not money-market funds.  Fidelity’s mutual funds have attracted net deposits of $2.6
billion this year through July 31 compared with deposits of $65
billion into Vanguard funds, according to Morningstar. Over the
past five years, Fidelity funds have had withdrawals of $45
billion, compared with deposits of $318 billion over the past
five years in Vanguard funds, Morningstar said.  Unlike BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest asset manager,
Fidelity hasn’t built a leading presence in alternative
investments such as private equity, hedge funds commodities and
real estate. The company’s institutional unit, Pyramis Global
Advisors, has $3.5 billion in alternative assets, compared to
BlackRock’s $110 billion.  Expecting Changes  “I’m expecting to see changes from Fidelity,” Bonnanzio
said. “Maybe we’ll start to see Fidelity do more than talk
about changes and get into markets it has utterly failed to
participate in.”  Fidelity is currently planning its entry into exchange-
traded funds, a product that has grown to about $1.7 trillion as
of July 31, according to BlackRock, which became the world’s
biggest provider of ETFs after acquiring the investment unit
from Barclays Plc in 2009.  Fidelity aims to become the first major mutual-fund company
to introduce ETFs run by active stock pickers by opening a
series of products based on its “Select” line of industry-
focused equity funds, a person familiar with the plans said last
month. Spokesman  Vincent Loporchio  wouldn’t confirm the plans.  Outside  money management , Fidelity is the largest provider
of 401(k)  retirement plans , offering defined contribution and
defined benefit plans to more than 19,000 employers. That unit
had $25.2 billion in sales in the first half, a 36 percent
increase over last year, according to the firm.  Fidelity’s operating income rose 13 percent to $3.33
billion in 2011, and revenue rose by 3.3 percent to $12.8
billion. Investors pulled $36.3 billion from Fidelity funds and
other products in the year, down from $49.4 billion in 2010.  Fidelity manages $1.6 trillion in assets and provides
record-keeping and administering services on an additional $2
trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  