-- Finansbank Sees Credit Card Gain as Turkey Rivals Disappear
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-08-28T13:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/finansbank-sees-20-credit-card-gain-as-turkey-rivals-disappear.html
Finansbank AS (FINBN) , the Turkish bank
owned by  National Bank of Greece , expects credit card revenue to
gain 20 percent by the end of the year as narrowing margins and
tighter regulation force competitors to exit the business.  The Istanbul-based bank expects revenue to rise to 3.6
billion liras ($2 billion) a month from 3 billion liras, chief
executive officer Temel Guzeloglu said late yesterday in an
interview. The bank, aiming for a top three position in credit
cards in  Turkey  from fifth now, expects consolidation in the
industry because of more regulation and lower profit, he said.  Turkey’s growth rate of 8.5 percent last year, the fastest
after China and  Argentina , was driven by an increase in lending
that reached 40 percent on an annual basis in October. Loan
growth in July slowed to 17 percent after Central Bank Governor
Erdem Basci raised  interest rates  to cool the economy.  “There will be credit card consolidation before bank
consolidation in Turkey in the near future,” Guzeloglu said.
“There won’t be so many cards or so many similar campaigns.”  Draft legislation would limit the fees banks are allowed to
charge customers on credit cards, a step that could cut banks’
income by 4.6 billion liras, Hurriyet newspaper reported on Aug.
15, citing Customs and Trade Minister Hayati Yazici. The
legislation is designed to bring consumer rights in line with
European Union legislation, the newspaper cited him as saying.  Limit Fees  If the government limits the fees and commissions banks
charge, lenders will have to pass on costs in other ways,
Guzeloglu said. “Banking is a costly industry,” he said.  Limiting or cutting fees would have a negative impact on
 customer service , said Feyzi Ozcan, Deputy Chief Executive
Officer of  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi TAO (VAKBN) , a state-run bank.  “Banks will have to give up practices that create added
value for the customer,” he said in an e-mailed response to
questions today.  Bad loans rose by 13.9 percent at the end of June from the
end of last year, according to the Central bank in Ankara. The
number of Turkish consumers who didn’t repay credit-card loans
rose to 343,428 in the first half, an increase of 10 percent
over the figure for all of 2011, according to the central bank.  Consolidation in the credit card business should allow
Finansbank to enter the top three Turkish banks in terms of
credit card turnover and total customers, Guzeloglu said,
without disclosing whether the bank plans to buy competitors.  Mergers Expected  Guzeloglu said he expected some of the bank’s rivals to
merge with each other or go out of business in the next four or
five years because they can’t meet profit expectations.  “A bank might sell its card portfolio totally to another
bank.” he said. “Aggressive and price-competitive strategies
currently prevalent in the sector can’t be long-lasting.”  Finansbank will have 4.5 million customers by year-end,
from the current 4 million and a total of 5.5 million cards,
from 5 million at the moment, according to Guzeloglu. Vakifbank
aims for 2.9 million cards by end-2012, from the current 2.8
million, Deputy CEO Ozcan said.  Finansbank fell 0.9 percent to 3.45 liras in Istanbul at
4:31 p.m. local time today. Vakifbank rose 0.3 percent at 4.06
liras.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net  or
Benjamin Harvey at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  or 