-- France Debt ‘Significantly Overvalued,’ General Re Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-28T15:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/france-debt-significantly-overvalued-general-re-says.html
General Re-New England Asset
Management Inc., a unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , said investors seeking to cut risk in  Spain  and Italy are
paying too much for French sovereign debt.  “France is significantly overvalued,” GR-NEAM Chief
Investment Officer John Gilbert wrote in a  newsletter  on the
unit’s website. The country should be paying 4.5 percent to 5
percent yields on 10-year bonds based on its risks, closer to
Italy and Spain’s rates than what Germany pays, he said.  Yields on France’s 10-year government debt have slid to
about  2.1 percent  from more than 3 percent at the end of last
year. The yield on similar maturity German bunds fell to 1.34
percent today, while Spain’s debt rose to 6.47 percent and
 Italy ’s climbed to 5.82 percent.  France, the euro area’s second-largest economy, has
benefited as investors fled weaker neighbors including Italy and
Spain, which are struggling to rein in borrowing costs amid the
currency bloc’s debt crisis. Investors should be wary because
France’s businesses have lost competitiveness over the past
decade and labor costs are higher than in Germany, Gilbert said.  French jobless claims rose to the highest in 13 years in
July as stalling growth prompted companies to trim payrolls, a
Labor Ministry report yesterday showed. The country is also
facing a ballooning trade deficit.  “We do not know if the markets will turn on France,”
Gilbert wrote in the document dated August 2012. “It is
possible that France will simply continue to get a bye on size -
- it is a big country with a big enough market to absorb funds
fleeing weaker venues. But investors making such a bet appear to
us to be whistling past a graveyard.”  Spain, Italy  Buffett, Berkshire’s 81-year-old chairman and chief
executive officer, cut holdings of Spanish, Italian and French
bonds about two years ago, he told CNBC last month. About 80
percent of the Omaha, Nebraska-based company’s non-U.S.
sovereign debt holdings were in  Germany , the U.K.,  Canada ,
 Australia  and the Netherlands as of June 30, according to a
regulatory filing.  GR-NEAM had $67.7 billion in unaffiliated assets under
management as of March 31, according to its website. The
Farmington, Connecticut-based unit primarily serves insurers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  