-- Russia’s Oldest Funds Quit Moscow as Investors Curb Risk
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-08-29T15:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/funds-that-pioneered-russia-quit-moscow-as-investors-curb-risk.html
Third Millennium Russia (TMRFX)  fund and
Vostok Nafta, two of the oldest equity funds investing in
 Russia , are exiting investments in Moscow as the  European debt
crisis  causes investors to curtail risk.  Third Millennium Russia fund, which has invested in Russia
since 1998, is shutting after posting losses and losing its
founder and portfolio manager, John T. Connor, to retirement.
Vostok Nafta, a Swedish  fund manager  focused on Russia since
1996, said on Aug. 15 it sold all of its Russia-listed shares,
citing “a persistent low level of global risk appetite.”  “These funds getting out of Russian equities are a
consequence of these types of funds being in a permanent crisis
since 2008,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika Dialog in
Moscow, said in an interview. “Clients are thinking there is
enough risk in putting money with the bigger more stable funds
without allocating money to more niche players with riskier
strategies.”  Third Millennium and actively managed emerging-market funds
have been losing clients to exchange-traded funds that track
indexes. Russian ETSs attracted $743 million in the year to Aug.
22, or 86 percent of the $868 million inflow into Russia,
according to Moscow-based Troika Dialog, which cited
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global. For the latest week, Russia
funds recorded a net outflow of $20 million while Russia ETFs
had an inflow of $25 million, the data shows.  ETF Inflows  “All the inflows in the last few quarters into Russia have
been for ETFs,” Maarten-Jan Bakkum, an emerging-markets
strategist at ING Investment Management in  The Hague , said by
phone yesterday. “The option to invest in funds with lower fees
is a powerful thing when risk appetite is under pressure.”
ING’s $400 million U.S.-listed  Russia fund  hasn’t seen any
recent inflows or outflows, Bakkum said.  Some investors are opting to put their money in developed
markets rather than seek higher returns in emerging markets,
according to  EPFR Global , which tracks money flows. The dollar-
denominated Russian  RTS Index (RTSI$)  returned 2 percent this year,
lagging the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 12 percent return.  Connor, whose Third Millennium fund has invested in Russian
stocks since  Boris Yeltsin  was president, said U.S. investors
have grown wary of emerging-market risk.  Lost Trust  “Emerging-market funds have lost the trust of the
investing public,” Connor, 72, said by phone from Tampa,
 Florida . “People are now afraid of putting their money to work
overseas and prefer to be in cash or in U.S. investments.”  Emerging markets, including Russia’s, have struggled to
match the performance of developed markets since 2008, when the
global economic crisis triggered a flight to safety.  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP)  estimated investors pulled at least $290 billion from Russia,
the world’s biggest energy exporter, from August 2008 to
February 2009 as the economy sank into its worst financial
crisis since the government’s 1998 default on $40 billion of
domestic debt.  The  RTS  Index tumbled 63 percent in 2008 and the ruble-
based Micex Index tumbled 67 percent, the biggest decline among
benchmark indexes in the 30 largest stock markets. Since 2008,
the RTS fell 10 percent whereas the  S&P 500  gained 11 percent.
The RTS sank for the fourth day, losing 1.3 percent to 1,410.16
by the close in Moscow.  Third Millennium, which managed $190 million at its peak
before the 2008 crisis, slid 35 percent in the year to June 30,
outpacing the 29 percent decline for the RTS Index, according to
the company’s  website.  Connor said the fund had gained 20
percent in the first two months of 2012 before slumping.  Less Appetite  Vostok Nafta (VNIL)  sold all of its Moscow-listed equities,
according to its six-month report published on its website. The
firm, which is listed in  Stockholm , is returning $250 million to
investors and has spent about $50 million buying back its own
shares, said Robert Eriksson, the head of  investor relations .  “Even though there remains potential upside in our
portfolio of Russian listed holdings, the risk-reward ratio,
after the strong start to the year and the persistent low level
of global risk appetite, has deteriorated,” managing director
Per Brilioth said in the report. Returns have been falling
compared with the 1990s and 2000s because of the increased
sources of capital, Brilioth said. Vostok Nafta said it retains
four investments in two unlisted Russian companies and two
listed in  Sweden .  Swedish funds have been the biggest investors in Russian
shares over the past two decades. Prosperity Capital, which
manages about $4 billion, is the largest foreign portfolio
investor. East Capital manages about $4.3 billion in Russia and
central and eastern  Europe .  ‘European Apocalypse’  “If we get through this fear of a European apocalypse,
Russia may be rerated thanks to the series of financial reforms
and it’s admission to the  World Trade Organization ,” Mattias Westman, chief executive officer of Prosperity, said by phone.
“Until then, these smaller funds with up to $200 million will
struggle due to risk perception and increased regulatory focus
making it hard to turn a profit.”  Prosperity investors, which include the $620 billion
Norwegian sovereign wealth fund, enjoy better returns and take a
longer investment horizon than mutual funds and high-net worth
individuals, according to Westman. Prosperity’s Quest fund was
the best performer globally for the decade ending Dec. 31, 2009,
with a 3,300 percent return, according to the firm, citing data
from Morningstar Inc.  The Prosperity flagship Russia fund gained 6.5 percent
during the first half of the year, compared with a RTS decline
of 2 percent, according to the firm’s July 26 newsletter.  Wermuth Asset Management , a German investor focused on
Russia, closed its $28 million Russian Deep Value fund and $55
million Deep Value 2 fund on July 31, according to an e-mailed
statement. The firms said both had reached the end of their
cycle and the closings weren’t related to performance.  ‘Avoiding Russia’  Spectrum Partners, based in Moscow, may be “forced to
restructure” its small-cap fund due to redemptions and a lack
of investor interest for second-tier stocks, according to
managing partner Michael Kart. The hedge fund has seen its
assets under management shrink to $100 million from $150 million
in six months due to clients taking money back and a decline in
asset values, Kart said.  “People are facing a lot of difficulties, and it’s not
viable if firms have shrunk to a few million dollars,” said
Kart. “Clients are avoiding Russia and  emerging markets  because
they see enough upside in the U.S. and Europe if things are
turning around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net 
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  