-- Gagosian Plans $130 Million Package for Brazil Art Fair
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-08-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/gagosian-plans-130-million-package-for-brazil-art-fair.html
Picasso’s lovers,  Richard Serra ’s
steel and Andreas Gursky’s yacht-studded Monaco are the
highlights of a $130 million trove  Gagosian Gallery  is taking
for its first expedition to Brazil next month.  The occasion is the second annual  ArtRio  in  Rio de Janeiro ,
a fair spread over 7,500 square meters (80,730 square feet) in
four warehouses on Guanabara Bay. It will feature 120 galleries,
including  David Zwirner  and  White Cube , as well as events hosted
by Christie’s and  Sotheby’s. (BID)  The size and participants reflect a
growing interest in the world’s sixth-largest economy.  “People who are better economically are turning to art,”
said Brenda Valansi, a partner in ArtRio, in a phone interview.  The ranks of  Brazil ’s high net-worth individuals -- those
with at least $1 million in financial assets -- grew by 6.2
percent between 2010 and 2011, the largest increase among the
top 12 countries measured by such individuals, according to the
World Wealth Report.  ArtRio’s organizers convinced local authorities to exempt
the art sold during the fair from an 18 percent tax, helping to
promote sales at the event, Valansi said.  Local Talent  Brazil’s own world-class artists, including Ernesto Neto,
Vik Muniz, Adriana Varejao and  Beatriz Milhazes , are another
draw for international buyers and exhibitors. The  Sao Paulo
Biennial , founded in 1951, is the oldest art biennial in the
world after the Venice Biennale. Rio’s art scene bristles with
artists, galleries, critics and curators, said Amy Cappellazzo,
chairman of postwar and contemporary art development at
 Christie’s .  “There are a lot of wonderful collectors, including young
professionals, who are interested in Brazilian art and
international works,” Cappellazzo said. “It’s not about
chasing five or 10 rich people.”  “The population of people collecting seriously has
exploded in the last five years,” said Allan Schwartzman, who
has been advising Bernardo Paz, a mining magnate who founded
Inhotim, a 5,000-acre contemporary-art park in the country’s
southeastern state of  Minas Gerais .  The prices for Brazilian artists spiked in recent years.
Varejao holds the auction record for a Brazilian artist with a
$1.8 million sale of “Wall With Incisions a la Fontana” at
Christie’s in February 2011. In June, a Milhazes canvas fetched
$1.5 million at Christie’s in  London .  Broad Spectrum  Gagosian is taking 80 pieces by 30 artists to  ArtRio . The
gallery’s selections cover a broad spectrum of prices and
periods, from a $10,000 photograph by New York-based artist Roe
Ethridge to Picasso portraits with asking prices between $10
million and $15 million.  Two sculptures by  Alexander Calder  priced between $5
million and $10 million will vie for buyers with four Warhols,
including a 1965 Campbell’s soup can and a 1986 self-portrait in
a fright wig, valued between $1 million and $10 million. The
gallery will display some works in a booth at the fair; others
will be included in a separate sculpture exhibition, also part
of the fair.  “It’s a little bit of a risk-taking situation,” said
Victoria Gelfand-Magalhaes, a New York-based Gagosian director
who worked on the project with her Paris-based colleague Serena
Cattaneo. “We don’t know if there’s a market there for works in
the $10 million to $15 million price range but we hope if we
bring real masterpieces, people will respond.”  Price Range  As Brazil’s contemporary artists passed the $1 million
mark, Gagosian has seen an increase in inquiries from the
country’s collectors about international artists in that price
range, Gelfand-Magalhaes said. Works by many of them, including
Serra,  Damien Hirst ,  Takashi Murakami ,  Urs Fischer , Mark Grotjahn and Cecily Brown, will be available for sale during
ArtRio.  The group is “bigger than what we’d bring to a typical art
fair,” Gelfand-Magalhaes said. “We are trying to make a great
first impression.”  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater, Nina
Mehta on  books .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 