-- Gasoline Rising to Holiday High as Storm Surge Presses Obama
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2012-08-28T21:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/gasoline-rising-to-holiday-record-as-storm-surge-pressures-obama.html
Hurricane Isaac and a deadly blast
at Venezuela’s Amuay refinery pushed gasoline to an almost four-
month high and threatened to revive a debate about energy costs
in the run-up to the presidential election in November.  Futures jumped yesterday in  New York  as Isaac forced
closures of Gulf Coast refineries and reduced rates at others.
That market is also reeling from an Aug. 25 explosion in
Venezuela that killed at least 48 people and closed the
country’s largest fuel-making plant. Futures are up 23 percent
since their 2012 settlement low of $2.5501 a gallon on June 21.  Prices at the pump will be the highest ever for the U.S.
Labor Day holiday, AAA said yesterday. The surge reignites an
issue that has pitted President  Barack Obama , who has called for
the elimination of billions of dollars of subsidies enjoyed by
the oil and gas industry, against the presumptive Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney . It also spurs speculation that Obama will
release supplies from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to ease
prices for consumers.  “Given this administration’s belligerent rhetoric against
the oil industry, it’s going to be very easy for Romney to pin
the blame on Obama,” said  Stephen Schork , president of Schork
Group Inc., a consulting firm in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “The
White House will be on the defensive. It makes an SPR release
likely sooner rather than later.”  Gasoline for September delivery advanced 7.68 cents, or 2.5
percent, to $3.1548 a gallon yesterday on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest level since April 30. Futures
fell 2.87 cents, or 0.9 percent, to settle at $3.1261 today.  Retail Prices  Retail prices  for regular grade increased 0.6 cent to
$3.756 a gallon yesterday, the highest level since May 7,
according to AAA, the largest U.S. motoring group. Gasoline at
the pump cost $4.138 in California yesterday, $4.008 in
Connecticut and $3.973 in New York.  The nationwide average fuel cost rose to $3.75 a gallon on
Aug. 26, the highest price ever for that day,  Michael Green , a
spokesman for AAA in Washington, said in an e-mail.  “We expect the national average price of gasoline for
Labor Day this year to be the highest ever for the holiday,” he
said.  Drivers could be paying $4 a gallon by the end of
September, Schork said. The first presidential  debate  is
scheduled for Oct. 3.  Winter-Grade Fuel  Gasoline futures for October delivery fell 0.6 percent to
settle at $2.9333 a gallon, 19.28 cents a gallon below the
September contract. The discount reflects speculation that
demand will slip as peak driving season ends with the Sept. 3
Labor Day holiday, and the switch to winter-grade fuel that
doesn’t have to meet as stringent emissions rules and is cheaper
to produce.  Obama has described his energy strategy, unveiled in March,
as an “all-of-the-above” approach that encourages fossil fuel
development,  energy efficiency  and renewable technology. He has
also called for a repeal of what he estimated is $4 billion in
subsidies every year.  Romney’s energy plan, released last week, faulted Obama for
discouraging drilling on federal land, stifling offshore
exploration, imposing costly regulations and subsidizing
uncompetitive technology that can’t survive without government
backing.  Solyndra LLC, a solar-panel maker in Fremont, California,
that received a $535 million U.S. loan guarantee, sought
 bankruptcy protection  in September and fired its 1,100 workers.  Refinery Shutdowns  Gasoline advanced yesterday as refiners including Exxon
Mobil Corp.,  Phillips 66 (PSX)  and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  said they are
temporarily shutting down Gulf Coast plants as Isaac churns
toward the  Louisiana  coast.  Six plants with a combined ability to process about 1.15
million barrels of crude a day are shut, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 6.7 percent of U.S. capacity.  In addition, plants including Motiva Enterprises LLC’s
Norco, Louisiana, Exxon’s Baton Rouge operations and Marathon
Petroleum Corp.’s Garyville facility are at lower rates.
Valero’s Memphis plant was said to be operating at minimum rates
after Royal Dutch Shell Plc shut the Capline pipeline that
transports crude oil from the Gulf to the Midwest.  “Right or wrong, higher gasoline prices don’t help
Obama,”  Kyle Cooper , director of research for IAF Advisors, a
Houston consulting group, and Cypress Energy Management LP, a
$20 million natural-gas hedge fund based in Houston, said by
phone yesterday. “All Obama’s rhetoric and all his propaganda
can’t do a thing if the refineries are flooded. He can’t change
physics. And Romney will take the other side of it, but this
storm is not Obama’s fault.”  Storm Path  The storm, with top sustained winds of 80 miles per hour,
was 30 miles (48 kilometers) south-southwest of the mouth of the
Mississippi River, the National Hurricane Center said at 4 p.m.
local time. It’s moving northwest at 8 mph on a track to make
landfall in southern Louisiana later today.  The strain on the U.S. refining system is compounded by
increased fuel demand from  Latin America  and the Aug. 25
explosion and fire at that killed at least 48 people and halted
production from  Petroleos de Venezuela SA ’s Amuay plant, which
can process 645,000 barrels of oil a day.  PDVSA, as the state-owned oil producer is known, is the
sole owner and operator of the refinery. The Paraguana complex
has a capacity of about 950,000 barrels a day, second in size to
Reliance Industries Ltd.’s Jamnagar refinery in India, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Amuay Fire  The Amuay fire highlights the risk to supplies of oil
products from large, aging plants and may lead to more exports
from Asia to the U.S., according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The U.S. became a net-exporter of products such as gasoline
and diesel last year for the first time since World War II as
Latin American refining capacity remained insufficient to meet
the region’s demand.  Venezuela imported an average of almost 38,000 barrels of
refined products from the U.S. in the first five months of the
year, up from about 23,000 barrels in the same period last year,
according to  data  from the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. Brazil imported an average of about 146,000
barrels a day this year through May, an increase of 17 percent
from last year, the  data  show.  Political Cover  These events give the Obama administration political cover
for releasing fuel supplies from the reserve, a move that may
bring prices down before the election, Schork said.  “Events are certainly working to give the appearance of a
fundamentally-based decision to make what is ultimately a
political move,” Schork said.  The  SPR , with a capacity of 727 million barrels, is the
largest stockpile of government-owned fuel in the world.
Established in the wake of the Arab oil embargo that began in
1973, the reserve allows the president to respond to supply
disruptions that threaten the  U.S. economy . Releases include
those made in 1991 at the outset of Operation Desert Storm, in
2005 following  Hurricane Katrina , and last year after civil war
in Libya throttled the country’s exports.  A release of crude from the reserve may fail to bring down
gasoline prices if refineries remain shut for an extended period
of time, Cooper said. The closures cut crude demand while
reducing supplies of fuel, he said.  “The storm combined with events in Venezuela has reduced
crude demand significantly while lowering crude production in
the Gulf,” Cooper said. “While psychologically an SPR release
might lower  oil prices , it will not necessarily translate to
lower gasoline prices.”  Crude Declines  Oil for October delivery advanced 86 cents, or 0.9 percent,
to settle at $96.33 a barrel on the Nymex. Futures have declined
2.5 percent this year.  The  Gulf of Mexico  is home to 44 percent of U.S. refining
capacity, 23 percent of oil production and 7 percent of natural-
gas output, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Companies including BP,  Apache Corp. (APA) ,  Murphy Oil Co. (MUR) , and
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  said this week that production has been
temporarily shut and workers evacuated as Isaac approached.  The storm threat shut 93 percent of U.S. oil output and 67
percent of natural gas from the Gulf, a Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement  report  showed today. Personnel have
been evacuated from 503 platforms and 49 rigs were evacuated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 