-- Gazprom, Bulgaria to Sign Pipeline, Gas Supply Contracts
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-08-28T15:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/gazprom-bulgaria-to-sign-pipeline-gas-supply-contracts.html
Bulgaria  and  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ,  Russia ’s
gas-export monopoly, agreed to conclude an investment contract
in November on constructing the South Stream pipeline project.  Bulgaria and Gazprom will also sign a new gas-supply
agreement, which involves an 11 percent price cut for the second
half of 2012, Energy and Economy Minister Delyan Dobrev told
Bulgarian National Radio in an interview in Sofia today.  Gazprom will begin underwater construction on Dec. 1 of the
pipeline, which will run from Russia along the Black Sea floor
to Bulgaria, Dobrev said. The Moscow-based company will finish
construction of the first line, which will be able to handle
15.75 billion cubic meters of a year, at the end of 2015,
Gazprom said.  “We’ll be able to complete all the contracts with Gazprom
by Nov. 15,” Dobrev said. Bulgaria wants to reduce the amount
it needs to pay to participate in the pipeline joint venture,
estimated at around 1 billion lev ($642 million), he said. He
did not elaborate.  Gazprom pumps 17.8 billion cubic meters of gas a year to
Bulgaria, about 2.8 billion cubic meters of which was consumed
in 2011 there. The rest goes on to  Turkey ,  Greece  and Macedonia
under a 30-year contract signed in 2006.  South Stream  South Stream will carry 63 billion cubic meters of gas by
2019, when all four lines are operational, according to Gazprom.
The link will run through Serbia, Hungary, Slovenia and northern
Italy with offshoots to Greece,  Croatia  and potentially
Montenegro and Macedonia, according to Gazprom.  Bulgaria imports all its gas from Russia and is seeking to
diversify supplies after they were cut for two weeks in 2009
following a price dispute between Ukraine and Russia. Bulgaria
spends as much as 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion) a year on gas
imports.  Bulgaria also backs the OMV AG-led Nabucco pipeline
project, which is aimed at bringing gas from the Caspian Sea
region to  Austria  via Turkey and cutting Europe’s reliance on
Russian fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  