-- Germany’s North Rhine-Westphalia Says Inflation Quickened
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-08-28T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/germany-s-north-rhine-westphalia-says-inflation-quickened.html
Inflation in the German state of
North Rhine-Westphalia accelerated in August on higher energy
costs.  The inflation rate quickened to 1.9 percent from 1.3
percent in July, the state’s statistics office in Dusseldorf
said today. Economists forecast that  Germany’s inflation rate ,
calculated using a harmonized European-Union method, will rise
to 2 percent from 1.9 percent in July, the median of 22
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  shows. The Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden will release that report, based
on data from six states, tomorrow.  Oil prices  have surged about 25 percent since the end of
June as storms in the  Gulf of Mexico  crimped output. The
 European Central Bank , which predicts that inflation will slow
this year, is working on the details of a new asset-purchase
program aimed at reducing bond yields in countries such as Spain
and  Italy .  “Higher oil prices are the main reason for inflation in
 Germany ”, said  Alexander Krueger , chief economist at Bankhaus
Lampe KG in Dusseldorf. “Besides, I don’t see much upward
pressure on prices in the months to come.”  In North Rhine-Westphalia, consumer prices rose 0.4 percent
from a month earlier, the statistics office said. Heating oil
prices gained 4.4 percent from July and were 13 percent higher
than a year ago. The cost of fuel increased 5.6 percent in
August from a month earlier and rose 12.1 percent compared with
a year earlier.  In the euro area, economists predict inflation will
accelerate to 2.5 percent in August from 2.4 percent in July,
according to the median of 31 estimates in a separate Bloomberg
News  survey . Eurostat, the European Union’s statistics office,
will publish that report on Aug. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  