-- German Stocks Retreat; Lufthansa, Rhoen-Klinikum Decline
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-08-28T15:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/german-stocks-retreat-deutsche-lufthansa-bayer-decline.html
German stocks  retreated as the
Spanish region of Catalonia sought a bailout,  Japan  lowered an
assessment of its economy for the first time in 10 months and
U.S.  consumer confidence  fell.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  declined after the airline’s main
cabin-crew union planned to strike.  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK) , the
hospital operator, slumped 4.9 percent. Henkel AG rose 1.2
percent after  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  recommended buying the shares.  The DAX Index dropped 0.6 percent to 7,002.68 at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt . The measure has still surged 17 percent
from this year’s low on June 5 as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said he would do everything possible to
preserve the euro. The broader HDAX Index also dropped 0.6
percent today.  “The news out of Japan today could be seen as a lagging
indicator of the state of the global economy,” said Serge Berger, a Zurich-based trader at Blue Oak Advisors LLC. “We’ve
rallied hard off the June lows, so the higher we go the more
some of the investors who have profits will want to take some.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the DAX was 37
percent less than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Catalonia said it will ask for 5 billion euros ($6.3
billion) of aid from the central government, becoming the second
Spanish region to tap a national rescue fund after the country’s
most-indebted area was shut out of financial markets.  Japanese Outlook  Japan’s government downgraded its assessment on personal
consumption, housebuilding, exports, imports and industrial
output in the world’s third-largest economy. It also lowered its
outlook for the global economy.  The Cabinet Office said that risks include a “further
slowing down of overseas economies and sharp fluctuations in the
financial and  capital markets ,” according to a monthly report
released in  Tokyo  today.  Confidence among U.S. consumers fell in August by the most
in 10 months as households grew more pessimistic about their
employment prospects and the economic outlook. The Conference
Board’s index decreased to 60.6 from a revised 65.4 in July,
figures from the New York-based private research group showed
today. Economists had projected a reading of 66, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  German Confidence  German  consumer confidence  will hold steady in September as
rising household incomes offset concerns that the economy will
enter recession, GfK SE said today.  The market research company in Nuremberg forecast that its
consumer-sentiment index, based on a survey of about 2,000
people, will remain at 5.9 next month. The last time the measure
was higher was when it reached 6 in March last year. Economist
predicted a decline to 5.8, according to the median of 25
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Lufthansa,  Europe ’s second-biggest airline, fell 0.8
percent to 9.84 euros. Cabin crew are planning unlimited strikes
and may walk off the job as soon as tomorrow after the latest
round of wage talks broke down overnight.  The Unabhaengige Flugbegleiter Organisation called a halt
to the negotiations after Lufthansa failed to guarantee that
employees would not be transferred to cheaper contracts at a
low-cost airline, union head Nicoley Baublies said at a press
conference at Frankfurt airport, the carrier’s main hub.  Rhoen-Klinikum slumped 4.9 percent to 19.15 euros,
extending yesterday’s decline. B. Braun Holding GmbH, a closely
held maker of medical supplies that has increased its stake in
Rhoen-Klinikum to at least 5 percent, may want to block a
takeover by Fresenius SE, Kepler Capital Markets said.  Henkel, the maker of Loctite glues and Persil detergent,
gained 1.2 percent to 60.61 euros as Deutsche Bank raised the
stock to buy from hold.  Douglas Holding AG (DOU)  rallied 5.5 percent to 35.60 euros, the
biggest gain since January, after Financial Times Deutschland
reported that Advent International Corp. may submit an offer for
the cosmetics retailer by next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  