-- GFI Mortgage Agrees to Pay $3.56 Million to End Bias Suit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-28T17:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/gfi-mortgage-agrees-to-pay-3-56-million-to-end-bias-suit.html
GFI Mortgage Bankers Inc., a firm
concentrating on New York,  New Jersey  and  Florida , agreed to pay
$3.56 million to resolve a lawsuit in which it was accused of
discriminating against black and Hispanic borrowers.  The New York-based company admitted to charging higher
interest rates and fees to black and Hispanic borrowers than for
similarly qualified white borrowers from 2005 to 2009, the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in  Manhattan  said today. The firm also agreed
to reform its practices, the government said.  “The swift resolution of this case demonstrates the
commitment of this office and the entire  Department of Justice 
to aggressively enforcing the laws against discriminatory
lending, and to holding accountable those who engage in this
illegal conduct,” U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a
statement.  The  Justice Department  sued the lender in April alleging
that it engaged in a pattern of discriminatory lending. The
company described itself on its  website  as “one of the largest
licensed home mortgage firms” and said it funds more than
$1 billion in mortgages annually.  GFI previously argued that it had no legal liability for
any of the conduct alleged in the case, according to a consent
order filed yesterday with the court.  Statistical Analysis  In settling the case, the company acknowledged that a
statistical analysis showed it charged  interest rates  that were
from 19 to 41 basis points higher for black borrowers and from
20 to 23 basis points higher for Hispanic borrowers than for
white borrowers with similar credit characteristics, according
to the order.  The analysis also showed the company charged fees that were
from 73 to 105 basis points higher for black borrowers and from
27 to 56 basis points higher for Hispanic borrowers than for
similarly-situated white borrowers, the filing said.  A basis point is the equivalent of 0.01 percentage point.  “Notwithstanding its strong denial of DOJ’s discrimination
claims in this lawsuit, GFI has always preferred to settle this
case provided it could do so on affordable terms,” said Andrew L. Sandler, counsel for the lender, of Buckley Sandler LLP.
“Last week, DOJ offered such terms and the case quickly
settled. GFI can now return its full focus to its mortgage
lending business.”  The case is U.S. v. GFI Mortgage Bankers Inc., 1:12-cv-
02502, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 