-- Goodwin Knighthood Loss Should Spur New Rules, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-08-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/goodwin-knighthood-loss-should-spur-new-rules-lawmakers-say.html
The reasons for stripping people of
U.K. knighthoods and other honors need to be clearer and the
process more transparent, a cross-party panel of lawmakers said.  Fred Goodwin, former chief executive officer of  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , lost his knighthood partly because of the
“media storm” around him even though he fell outside formerly
used criteria and the previous Labour government had rejected
calls to annul his award, Parliament’s Public Administration
Committee said in a report published in London today.  “The fact that the criteria for forfeiture were so obscure
and narrow was unfortunate,” the report said. “There should be
a clear and expanded criteria for the forfeiture of an honor,
one of which should be damage to the industry or sector that the
individual was originally deemed to have served so
exceptionally.”  Goodwin, who led RBS into the world’s biggest bank bailout,
was stripped of his award in January for “bringing the honors
system into disrepute,” a charge that in the past required a
criminal conviction or expulsion from a professional body. He
was awarded the honor, entitling him to call himself Sir Fred,
in 2004 for “services to banking.”  The credibility of the honors system, under which people
are presented with awards by  Queen Elizabeth II  for service to
their community or country, will be brought into question unless
grounds for losing the award are clarified, the committee
concluded.  There should be an independent panel, headed by a retired
judge, to assess whether honors should be removed, it said. The
panel should hold its proceedings in public and allow
evidence from the person whose honor is under consideration.  ‘Shadowy Group’  “It appears to many that the decision to strip  Fred
Goodwin  of his knighthood was made in response to media
pressure, by a shadowy group of senior civil servants, acting in
secret, with no clear rules or criteria,” Bernard Jenkin, the
Conservative lawmaker who chairs the committee, said in an e-
mailed statement. “The Honors Forfeiture Committee should be
independent and its procedures and decisions must be much more
transparent.”  There are also too many awards for public servants doing
their jobs and celebrities and not enough for people who carry
out voluntary work in their local communities, the committee
said.  The government should create an independent honors
commission to consider nominations and remove political
interference from the process, it said.  “The public values the honors system, and it commands a
significant degree of public confidence, but people still say
that honours appear to be awarded through a mysterious process
by the various committees to the usual suspects they already
know,” Jenkin said. “There should be no ‘automatic’ honors for
people who hold a certain post, or for celebrities and sports
stars at a certain level, but too often it seems this is still
the case.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  