-- Greece Plans Road, Rail, Airport Projects to Boost Growth
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-08-28T14:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/greece-plans-road-rail-airport-projects-to-boost-growth.html
The Greek government presented 10
priorities for boosting growth including the expansion of road
and rail networks, the creation of a Greek investment fund and
setting up special economic zones.  Our goal “is to pull  Greece  out of its current crisis and
to rebuild the country’s confidence and optimism,” Development
Minister Konstantinos Hatzidakis said today, according to a
 transcript  of the comments e-mailed from his  ministry  in Athens.
These priorities are “specific, achievable and measurable.”  Greece’s recession, now in its fifth year, has been
exacerbated by austerity measures imposed to trim a  budget
deficit  that was more than five times the euro-area limit in
2009. Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s coalition government is
negotiating an 11.5 billion-euro ($14.4 billion) package of
budget cuts for 2013 and 2014 needed to keep rescue loan funds
from the euro area and the  International Monetary Fund  flowing.  The government is negotiating the creation of a Greek
investment fund, supported by European Union money, and the
conclusions of a working group including the French Finance
Ministry and the  European Investment Fund  should be known by
Sept. 30, Hatzidakis said.  The establishment of special economic zones with tax
incentives will help to boost investment, jobs and exports and
Greece will soon begin feasibility studies for these zones for
submission to the European Commission, he said.  Infrastructure projects include the extension of the  Athens
metro , the completion of the capital’s suburban rail network,
highway projects, a metro line in the second-largest city of
Thessaloniki, upgrades to three regional ports and building a
new airport on the island of Crete, Hatzidakis said.  Public-private partnerships will be used to develop and
implement a national broadband strategy as well as for projects
worth around 1 billion euros including waste management, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in  Athens  at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  