-- Miami Lawsuit Raises Questions About Absentee-Voter Fraud
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/miami-election-suit-raises-questions-about-absentee-voter-fraud.html
Two candidates in Miami-Dade County,
 Florida , sued to throw out more than 80,000 absentee ballots
from an Aug. 14 non-partisan primary, citing a criminal
investigation into whether more than 100 of the votes were
collected illegally by so-called ballot brokers.  Pedro Garcia, the outgoing property appraiser who lost the
election on absentee ballots while winning the election-day
vote, and Miami-Dade County Commission Chairman Joe Martinez,
who lost the race for county mayor, claimed in lawsuits filed
against the elections supervisor and their opponents that at
least some of the absentee ballots were fraudulent.  “A cadre of political campaign consultants, with their
hired ‘boleteros’ or ballot brokers, regularly gather absentee
ballots from the elderly, often in exchange for some
renumeration,” Garcia and Martinez said in complaints filed in
state court. “Residents of public housing controlled by
political machines are directed to vote via absentee ballots and
directed which candidates to cast their votes for.”  The Miami-Dade complaints come on top of four federal
lawsuits challenging Republican Florida Governor  Rick Scott ’s
efforts to purge voter rolls of non-citizens and the Republican-
led legislature’s action to restrict early voting days.
Democratic activists have claimed both measures could illegally
disenfranchise minority voters who are more likely to vote
Democrat.  The dispute over the Miami-Dade primary results may have
exposed a weakness in Florida’s election procedures with
implications for November’s presidential race, Michael Pizzi, an
attorney and mayor of  Miami Lakes , a small city northwest of
Miami, said. Pizzi, a Republican, represented a city council
candidate in 2004 in an unsuccessful attempt to overturn
election results. The candidate, who won at the polls, lost when
absentee votes were counted.  ‘Recount Two’  “If we don’t do something about all the problems with
absentee voting and the documented fraud, you could have Recount
Two in Florida,” he said, referring to the 2000 presidential
election between  Al Gore  and  George W. Bush .  Robert Fernandez, a lawyer for Florida state representative
Carlos Lopez-Cantera, the winner of the property appraiser’s
race, said the lawsuit seeks to disenfranchise more than 80,000
people because of possible defects in a handful of ballots.  A copy of the complaint was obtained from the plaintiffs’
lawyer and couldn’t be immediately confirmed in court records.  “You have all this talk of people being caught with all
these absentee ballots in their possession,” Fernandez said.
“Those ballots may be perfectly legal, even though it violates
the Miami-Dade ordinance for someone to collect them.”  A Miami-Dade ordinance prohibits anyone from collecting
more than two absentee ballots. There is no statewide law
restricting ballot brokers.  Run-Off  Stephen Cody, the attorney for both plaintiffs, said the
Florida Supreme Court has ruled that all absentee ballots have
to be thrown out if fraud occurs in absentee voting. Without the
votes cast against him by absentees, Martinez would have forced
Carlos Gimenez, the winner of the mayor’s race, into a run-off.  Gimenez and Cantera aren’t accused of any wrongdoing in the
lawsuits.  Two people have been arrested on charges they violated a
Miami-Dade ordinance prohibiting anyone from possessing more
than two absentee ballots.  “It might seem unfair, but the law is that fraud cannot be
allowed to stand,” Cody said. “The Florida Supreme Court has
ruled that absentee voting is a privilege, not a right.”  Kendall Coffey, a former U.S. Attorney who represents
Gimenez, said that since that decision, the Legislature had
expanded the right to absentee voting. In 1997, Coffey
overturned the Miami mayoral election on the basis of fraud in
absentee voting.  ‘Massive Disenfranchisement’  “Everybody is able to vote absentee simply because they
want to,” Coffey said. “It’s no longer a privilege. They seek
a massive disenfranchisement of close to 90,000 absentee voters
based on minuscule evidence and outdated law.”  In the federal cases over voter access in Florida, the
 Justice Department , which filed one of the suits over the voter
purge, has argued the state violated the Voting Rights Act. A
federal judge in Tallahassee ruled the Justice Department case
was moot when Florida stopped the purge. The other case, filed
in  Fort Lauderdale , has been ordered into mediation.  In the suit over early voting, a three-judge panel in
 Washington  ruled earlier this month that the state violated the
Voting Rights Act by changing elections procedures in five
counties that are under federal oversight because they have a
history of election discrimination.  The cases are Martinez v. Miami-Dade County Canvassing
Board and Garcia v. Miami-Dade County Canvassing Board, Miami-
Dade Circuit Court (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sussanah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  