-- IEA Head Says Oil Market Doesn’t Have Serious Supply Outage
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r   a n d   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2012-08-28T16:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/iea-head-says-oil-market-doesn-t-have-serious-supply-disruption.html
The oil market has enough supply and
there is no need for the release of emergency inventories for
the moment, the head of the  International Energy Agency  said.  “We don’t have a serious disruption of supply,” Maria van der Hoeven, head of the Paris-based energy adviser, said today
in an interview in Stavanger, Norway. “The market is
sufficiently well supplied and when there is the collective
action needed as there was last year, it can only be when we are
talking about a serious disruption of supply.”  The IEA’s 28-member countries made available 60 million
barrels of crude and oil products in June 2011 after Libyan
output was disrupted by an armed uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi . Brent crude prices peaked last year at about $127 a
barrel in mid-April and briefly fell below $105 in late June.
Oil traded at $112.14 a barrel in London today after gaining
almost 26 percent since the end of June.  Rising gasoline prices and production cuts tied to Tropical
Storm Isaac churning through the  Gulf of Mexico  have boosted
speculation the U.S. will announce a release from its Strategic
Petroleum Reserve. The IEA also made supplies available when
 Hurricane Katrina  struck rigs and refineries in 2005.  U.S. authorities haven’t contacted the IEA on the use of
emergency supplies, Hoeven said.  White House spokesmen have said the administration is
monitoring oil markets and that a release is among the actions
being considered if prices were to rise or supply was disrupted.
Yesterday, spokesman  Clark Stevens  said that there was no new
announcement though “all options are on the table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  