-- Time Warner Cable Boosts Speeds as Google Project Looms
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-08-28T20:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/time-warner-cable-boosts-new-york-speeds-as-google-project-looms.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  will expand
fiber-optic lines to businesses in New York, a move that boosts
Internet speeds as much as 20 times and provides an East Coast
counterpoint to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s ultrafast network in  Kansas City .  The second-largest U.S. cable company is spending $25
million this year to expand fiber networks in the boroughs of
 Brooklyn ,  Manhattan , Queens and Staten Island. Time Warner Cable
will announce the investment today at the Brooklyn Navy Yard.  “We’re making the investment to expand into areas much
more aggressively than we ever have before,”  Ken Fitzpatrick ,
president of business services for Time Warner Cable’s East
region, said in an interview. “We’re positioning  New York City 
as a much more tech-savvy place to work.”  The company faces a threat from Google more than 1,000
miles away in Kansas City, where the Internet-search giant is
building a fiber-optic network as a test project. Time Warner
Cable is the main broadband provider for the area, which spans
parts of Missouri and Kansas. While Google’s network will be
available to both companies and households, Time Warner Cable’s
New York fiber network is focused on businesses.  Time Warner Cable is designing its fiber-optic network to
provide speed of 1,000 megabytes per second. The company
recently completed installation to all small businesses in the
Empire State Building and is extending its network to locations
in Midtown, the Flatiron area and the Financial District.  Time Warner Cable’s Business Class service offers high-
speed Internet to about 450,000 small-business customers. The
New York-based company’s sales from business services rose 29
percent last quarter to  $464 million . The revenue accounts for
8.6 percent of Time Warner Cable’s total sales.  Google’s fiber expansion may benefit Time Warner Cable’s
business because “the more people figure out how to use
broadband, the better off we’re going to be,” Chief Executive
Officer Glenn Britt said during a conference call this month.  Time Warner Cable was little changed at $89.88 at the close
in  New York . The stock has gained 41 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  