-- IMF Says Singapore Should Allow Temporary Rise in Inflation Rate
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-08-28T04:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/imf-says-singapore-should-allow-temporary-rise-in-inflation-rate.html
Singapore should let its inflation
rate rise temporarily to accommodate price gains from tighter
labor markets even as those stemming from credit growth should
be “forcefully tackled,” the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Gross domestic product  growth is forecast to weaken this
year to 2.9 percent, before accelerating to 3.4 percent in 2013,
the Washington-based lender said in a  report  yesterday known as
an Article IV Consultation. A low  unemployment rate  will spur
domestic demand and inflation will remain elevated, it said.  The Singapore government this month trimmed its prediction
for 2012 growth to 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent, from an earlier
forecast for an expansion of as much as 3 percent. Policy makers
across the world are girding for a deeper impact from  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt turmoil, with Asian central banks from  China  to
 South Korea  and the  Philippines  cutting  interest rates  last
month, putting pressure on Singapore to ease monetary policy.  “Singapore has ample policy space and large buffers to
mitigate the effects of a steeper global growth slowdown or
financial turmoil,” the IMF said. “Given Singapore’s
pronounced trade and financial openness, the impact of further
euro-area turmoil, abrupt fiscal tightening in the  United States ,
and/or a severe slowdown in China would be substantial.”  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore , which uses the
exchange rate to manage inflation, said in April it would allow
faster gains in the currency to damp price pressures, diverging
from most other regional economies that had left borrowing costs
unchanged or eased monetary policy.  The tightening was appropriate, the IMF said yesterday. The
central bank releases its next policy review in October.  Under Pressure  “Inflation should be permitted to rise temporarily to
accommodate the increase in relative prices of labor-intensive
products resulting from the tighter labor market conditions,”
the IMF said. “Other sources of inflation -- including from
transport costs, credit growth and asset prices -- should be
forcefully tackled, including through continued recourse to
macro prudential tools. Consideration could also be given to
further absorbing liquidity.”  The monetary authority estimated last month consumer-price
gains will average 4 percent to 4.5 percent this year, compared
with the 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent range it forecast previously.
The inflation rate was 4 percent in July, after holding at 5
percent or more in the previous four months.  “Inflation is expected to remain under pressure from the
tight labor market and lagged effects of higher prices for
vehicle permits and real estate,” the IMF said.  Productivity Growth  Singapore ’s government said in 2010 that it aims to at
least double its productivity growth to between 2 percent and 3
percent annually in the next 10 years, as it tries to reduce the
island’s dependence on exports. Policy makers have cited some
industries’ use of cheaper, low-skilled foreign labor as a
reason for low productivity in the prior decade, and have
tightened rules on hiring overseas workers.  “Slower foreign worker inflows will boost real wages and,
if complemented with well-targeted incentives for technology and
skills upgrading, should with time support productivity
growth,” the IMF said. “In the near term, the strategy is
expected to reduce potential growth and increase frictional
unemployment. It will also push up inflation and contribute to a
permanently more appreciated real  exchange rate  and narrower
current-account surplus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  