-- Irish Consumer Confidence Rises as EU Debt Pledge Lifts Outlook
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-08-28T13:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/irish-consumer-confidence-rises-as-eu-debt-pledge-lifts-outlook.html
Irish  consumer confidence  rose to
its highest level in almost five years in August after European
Union leaders pledged to look at debt options for the country
and unemployment stabilized the previous month.  A sentiment gauge rose to 70, the highest since October
2007, from 67.7 in July, as concern about the economic outlook
eased, KBC Ireland, a unit of KBC Bank NV, said in a statement
in Dublin today. Separate data showed  retail sales  rose in July
by the most this year.  Ireland is emerging from the worst recession in its modern
history after a property-market crash was amplified by the
global financial crisis. EU leaders said in June they would
examine debt options for Ireland, which sought a 65 billion euro
($81.6 billion) aid package in 2010 as the cost of rescuing its
banks became too much.  “The big picture is that both the labor market and
 consumer spending  are slowly stabilizing,” Conall Mac Coille,
chief economist at Dublin-based securities firm Davy, said in a
note today. “The improvement in sentiment seems clearly linked
to the commitment by EU leaders to consider additional options
to help Ireland’s debt sustainability.”  Retail sales rose 0.7 percent in July from June, the
statistics office said. From a year earlier, sales were down 1.5
percent.  While unemployment has tripled since the start of 2008, the 
statistics office  said earlier this month that claims fell by
2,300 in July and the jobless rate held at 14.8 percent.  “The risk that EU leaders fail to provide additional
material support to help Ireland’s debt sustainability clearly
poses a threat that consumer confidence could fall back,” Mac
Coille said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  