-- Isaac Seen Making Release of U.S. Strategic Oil Likely
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-28T20:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/isaac-seen-making-release-of-u-s-strategic-oil-likely.html
Rising gasoline prices and
production cuts tied to a storm named Isaac churning across the
 Gulf of Mexico  have some energy analysts predicting the U.S.
will announce a release from its Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  Gasoline prices climbed yesterday to the highest level
since May as Isaac, which became a hurricane today, caused
evacuation of oil platforms, shutting 93 percent of the Gulf oil
output and several refineries. An explosion and fatal fire at
the largest refinery in  Venezuela  also has crimped supplies.  “Isaac and the Venezuelan refinery explosion increase the
chances that we will have a release from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve,” Whitney Stanco, a Washington-based analyst with
Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in a phone interview. The
announcement “might happen this week or early next week,” she
said.  White House spokesmen have said the administration is
monitoring oil markets and that a release is among the actions
being considered if prices were to rise or supply was disrupted.
“That option remains on the table,” press secretary  Jay Carney 
told reporters traveling with President  Barack Obama  to a
campaign event today in  Iowa . “We have no announcement to make
today.”  $4 Gasoline  Without a release, gasoline prices may approach $4 a
gallon, making Obama vulnerable to attack when he faces his
presumptive Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  during the
presidential debates in October, according to  Stephen Schork ,
president of The Schork Group Inc., an energy consulting firm
based in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . Obama will probably seek to
avoid such criticism, he said.  “And so the easiest way to do it, for everyone to see,
would be releasing barrels” from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve, Schork said in a phone interview. “It has to happen, I
think, within the next week.”  Releasing oil from the stockpiles has proven no guarantee
of lower prices at the pump over the past eight years. Gasoline
went up in the week following the announcements in four out of
six cases since 2004. In 2008 and 2011, tapping stockpiles
brought down the cost of a fill-up, according to  data  from AAA.  Pump prices  increased 0.6 cent to $3.76 a gallon yesterday,
the highest level since May 7, according to AAA, the largest
U.S. motoring group.  Obama Encouraged  “Price increases at the pump are money immediately out of
the pocket of consumers,” Representative  Peter Welch , a Vermont
Democrat, said today in a telephone interview. The oil reserve
“is a short-term tool, and obviously doesn’t address long-term
issues, but it’s proven to be effective in similar
circumstances, and I encourage the president to use the
authority he has.”  Gasoline prices fell 2 percent in the week after Obama’s
release of 30 million barrels last year, done in  coordination 
with 27 other countries belonging to the  International Energy
Agency .  Finance ministers from the Group of Seven nations issued a
joint statement today calling on oil-producing countries to
increase output and said they “stand ready to call upon the
International Energy Agency to take appropriate action to ensure
that the market is fully and timely supplied.”  “We remain vigilant of the risks to the global economy,”
the G-7 said.  IEA Statement  The oil market has enough supply and there is no need for
the release of emergency inventories for the moment, the head of
the IEA said prior to the G-7 statement.  “We don’t have a serious disruption of supply,” Maria van der Hoeven, head of the Paris-based energy adviser, said today
in an interview in Stavanger, Norway. “The market is
sufficiently well supplied, and when there is the collective
action needed as there was last year, it can only be when we are
talking about a serious disruption of supply.”  Gulf Coast  refineries, including those owned by  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Phillips 66 (PSX)  and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , were temporarily
shut down as Isaac headed toward the Louisiana coast.  The  National Hurricane Center  predicted that Isaac would
make landfall in southern Louisiana late today or early
tomorrow. The more powerful  Hurricane Katrina  struck the Gulf
Coast on Aug. 29, 2005, causing levees to fail in  New Orleans 
and killing more than 1,800 people.  Republicans Opposed  “The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is established for
emergency purposes, related to national security,” John Hofmeister, an energy-policy writer and analyst who was
president of Shell Oil Co. from 2005 to 2008, said in an
interview. “It is not intended, nor it was never intended, as a
buffer against high gasoline prices.”  Republicans and the oil industry oppose the move, and
Kenneth Medlock, an energy economist and adjunct professor in
the Department of Economics at  Rice University  in Houston, said
an announcement of a release is unlikely, given the criticism it
is likely to trigger.  “It creates a point of conflict in terms of politics of
the election,” Medlock said in a phone interview yesterday.
“You just open the possibility for the engagement of another
topic. That won’t necessarily bode well for the
administration.”  Romney said that if elected, he would approve  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline and open Atlantic waters to oil
exploration.  “When you think about production platforms being
evacuated, production being shut-in, you’re talking about a
seven- to 10-day event,” said Medlock. “So any upward pressure
on price that happens now, it’s going to subside anyway.”  The U.S.  reserve , kept in salt caverns along the Gulf of
Mexico coast, holds as much as 727 million barrels of crude oil.
It was established to counter supply disruptions after the Arab
oil embargo of 1973-1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  