-- Isis Mobile-Payment System to Debut in September After Delays
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-08-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/isis-mobile-payment-system-to-debut-in-september-after-delays.html
Isis, the mobile-payment joint
venture backed by  AT&T Inc. (T) , Verizon Wireless and T-Mobile USA
Inc., is on track for a debut in September, following months of
delays and a change in strategy last year.  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY) , a maker of payment terminals that is
working on the project, is preparing for an introduction in  Salt
Lake City  and Austin,  Texas , next month, Chief Executive Officer
Doug Bergeron said in an interview.  Isis, which will let users pay for items at stores using
their mobile phones, had previously planned to roll out the
service in the first half of 2012. The joint venture tweaked its
strategy last year,  opting to use credit-card companies  to
handle transactions rather than the carriers themselves, and
it’s taken time to ensure that payments can be made securely.  “The focus has been: Get it right, make sure it’s
secure,” Brad Duea, senior vice president of  product management 
at  T-Mobile USA , said in an interview.  Isis joins a growing cast of competitors, including Google
Inc. and EBay Inc., in vying to capitalize on mobile-payment
transactions, which Juniper Research Ltd. expects to rise almost
 fourfold  in total volume to more than $1.3 trillion by 2017. The
payment system relies on near field communication, or NFC, a
technology that lets users tap a phone on a cash register to
make a payment.  Security Measures  The approach requires carriers to sell NFC-equipped phones,
which aren’t widely available today. While T-Mobile currently
carries four NFC-enabled handsets, it will roll out “many
more” this year, Duea said.  The NFC phones also will provide additional security,
letting carriers remotely erase a device’s information if
stolen. That type of feature isn’t offered by many other
providers of so-called mobile wallets, Duea said.  T-Mobile plans to use NFC technology to provide other
services, such as the ability to download applications and
content by tapping a phone against a receptor at a store or
concert venue, Duea said.  Laurel Cifala, a spokeswoman for the Isis venture, declined
to elaborate on the service’s rollout beyond saying it would be
this summer, which officially ends Sept. 21.  Verizon Wireless 
and AT&T also declined to discuss details.  Even with the delays, Isis may have a better shot at
success than mobile-wallet competitors because it has the
backing of carriers. Google Wallet, meanwhile, hasn’t caught on
with consumers, said Maribel Lopez, an analyst at Lopez Research
LLC in  San Francisco . Shari Yoder Doherty, a spokeswoman for
Google, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  “The carrier platform with Isis has more of an opportunity
for success than some of the others, and at least more than
Google Wallet has demonstrated so far,” Lopez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  