-- Lithuania to Adopt Euro When Europe Is Ready, Kubilius Says
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 2012-08-28T12:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/lithuania-to-adopt-euro-when-europe-is-ready-kubilius-says.html
Lithuanian Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius said his country will join  Europe ’s common currency
when the euro area is ready for expansion, signaling that
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis may alter his government’s euro
adoption plans.  Lithuania will apply for the euro “when we’re ready and
when the  euro zone  is ready,” Kubilius said in a radio
interview with  Lietuvos Radijas  today. “The euro remains our
strategic goal. Nevertheless, we’d like to see a clearer and
more stable situation in the euro zone at the time when we adopt
the euro.”  Kubilius dodged giving a specific target date as to when
Lithuania will switch currencies, evading previous statements
that the government aims to join the euro in 2014. He said the
country will meet all the requirements for euro adoption next
year, including the  inflation  target as declining oil prices
help curb consumer-price growth.  Europe’s debt crisis is cooling Baltic enthusiasm for euro
entry.  Lithuania , which in 2006 became the only nation rejected
for euro adoption, and Latvia have previously pledged to follow
fellow Baltic state Estonia, which introduced the currency in
2011.  Kubilius’ comment follows a statement from Latvian Prime
Minister Valdis Dombrovskis on Aug. 23 that Latvia’s government
will decide on a euro adoption timetable in spring 2013. This
contrasts with earlier statements by Latvian officials to switch
currencies in 2014.  Control, Sanctions  The euro area needs a system of control or sanctions for
countries that violate the euro bloc’s rules on budget deficits,
inflation and debt, Dombrovskis said in an interview with
 Latvijas Radio .  Latvia cut its value-added tax by 1 percentage point to 21
percent in July to slow inflation and qualify for euro entry.
Both Latvia and Lithuania fix their currencies to the euro.  Kubilius reiterated that the Lithuanian budget deficit will
narrow to 3 percent of  gross domestic product  this year before
shrinking further to 2 percent of GDP in 2013, in line with euro
adoption plans.  The  Nasdaq OMX Vilnius Index (VILSE)  fell 0.47 percent at 3:04 p.m.
in Vilnius today, heading for the biggest daily drop in two
weeks. The yield on Lithuania’s 2022 dollar bond was little
changed at 4.07 percent today and up from the lowest on record
of 4.06 percent on Aug. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  