-- Mitt Romney’s Mystifying Sense of Humor
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-08-28T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/mitt-romney-s-mystifying-sense-of-humor.html
At breakfast Monday in Tampa,
 Florida , Romney campaign adviser  Eric Fehrnstrom  was responding
once again to the question, “Why’d he say it?”  On Friday, Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
returned to  Michigan , where “the trees are the right height,”
and waxed nostalgic about his childhood in a wealthy Detroit
suburb.  “Now I love being home in this place where Ann and I were
raised, where both of us were born,”  Romney said , referring to
his wife. “Ann was born in Henry Ford Hospital. I was born in
Harper Hospital. No one’s ever asked to see my birth
certificate. They know that this is the place that we were born
and raised.”  When all hell broke loose in Twitterland and beyond, Romney
quickly said he didn’t mean anything by his birth-upmanship. It
was all a joke. A “lighthearted” one at that, Fehrnstrom said.  That’s the press for you: Can’t take a joke. In politics, a
joke is what you label something you said that you really meant
or wanted to say, but don’t want to own up to. Regret a previous
statement because the reaction is negative? Call it a joke and
hide behind your quirky sense of humor.  Romney’s own allies were surprised that he would get
birthery. (Isn’t that  Donald Trump ’s job?) For Romney even to
refer to the fallacious charge that President  Barack Obama 
wasn’t born in the U.S. was surprising; the equivalent eight
years ago would have been George W. Bush calling  John Kerry ’s
Purple Heart into question. (That was the job of the Swift Boat
Veterans for Truth.)  Dangerous Humor  Even when genuine, humor is a ticking bomb that can
grievously injure the person who deploys it. Mistaken attempts
to tickle your own funny bone, or those of a few around you, are
usually remembered far better than any speech. Yes, we remember
 Ronald Reagan  saying “Tear down this wall,” but we also recall
Reagan’s detour as he was about to give his weekly radio
address, intoning into an open mic that he’d just signed
legislation that would outlaw  Russia  forever: “We begin bombing
in five minutes.”  Reagan’s blunder proves that even the most scripted pol
longs to go natural once in a while. Voters like it, too. But
when Romney goes spontaneous -- excuse me, when he tells a joke
-- it usually reveals a tetchy, petulant personality under that
eager-to-please boardroom facade.  “I like those fancy raincoats you bought,”  he said  in
February to a group of Nascar fans in Florida. “Really sprung
for the big bucks.” In April, looking at the fare from a bakery
in suburban Pittsburgh,  he said : “I’m not sure about these
cookies. They don’t look like you made them.” And then there’s
the  famous line  delivered in January on the campaign trail in
New Hampshire: “I like being able to fire people who provide
services to me.”  It’s no wonder Romney has to reintroduce himself to the
American people this week at the  Republican National Convention 
in Tampa. His attempts to connect have not been good, and his
likability is low. Last week the  Gallup Organization found  that
Obama beat Romney by 23 points on likability, 54 percent to 31
percent.  This is a gap comparable to Romney’s deficits with women
and Hispanics. We elect alderman we don’t like, and sometimes
governors, but not presidents (with the huge exception of
 Richard Nixon ). A presidential candidate is required to be
carefully revealing, sometimes in his acceptance speech.  Bob Dole  eventually, if reluctantly, talked about his war injuries,
just as  John McCain  referred to his years of imprisonment and
 Bill Clinton  spoke of looking after his abused mother.  Big Kiss  Al Gore , who had about as much trouble convincing voters he
was an actual human being as Romney does, used his vice
presidential  acceptance speech  in 1996 to tell of his bedside
moment with his dying sister fueling his (putative) crusade
against Big Tobacco. Of course, he ended his presidential
acceptance speech four years later with the Big Kiss.  Still, this sob story couldn’t match  George W. Bush ’s tale
of redemption -- told in his autobiography -- of how, after a
drunken 40th birthday bash, he found God. When asked, voters
said they would prefer to have a beer (or near-beer, as Bush
doesn’t drink) with Bush rather than Gore.  So why, just this week in an interview  with USA Today , did
Romney say he “won’t be talking about my life” in his acceptance
speech? Because that’s a job for his wife. It’s the default
position of every male politician -- and we fall for it every
time. We treat wives as if they are independent observers, as
opposed to a wholly owned subsidiary whose fortunes are
inextricably entwined with the principal.  Oh, never mind. The tableau works. On the final night of
the convention, after his acceptance speech, the Mitt We Will
Never Know will accept an embrace from his wife, who used her
speech to extol the Mitt I Know. It will have to be enough.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on using the  Strategic Petroleum
Reserve  to hold down gasoline prices and on the need for
disclosure in  natural-gas drilling ; Clive Crook on the  foreign
policy Romney won’t adopt ; Jonathan Mahler on how the Red Sox
and Dodgers  ended a baseball era ; John Paul Rollert on  Paul
Ryan ,  the salesman who never takes no  for an answer.  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 