-- Japan Cuts Economic Assessment as BNP Says Contraction Looms
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-08-28T01:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/japan-cuts-economic-assessment-as-bnp-sees-contraction-correct-.html
Japan ’s government downgraded its
assessment of the world’s third-biggest economy for the first
time in 10 months as some analysts forecast that gross domestic
product will shrink this quarter.  Risks include a “further slowing down of overseas
economies and sharp fluctuations in the financial and capital
markets,” the Cabinet Office said in a monthly report released
in Tokyo today. It cut an evaluation of the global economy.  The government lowered its view on personal consumption, 
home-building,  exports , imports and industrial output, while
raising its assessment of the labor market. The  Bank of Japan (8301) 
next meets on Sept. 18 and 19 to review monetary policy, while
global investors are awaiting an Aug. 31 speech by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to gauge the outlook for
stimulus in the world’s biggest economy.  “ Europe ’s debt crisis is having the effect of a body blow
to Japan’s economy,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist
at  Itochu Corp. (8001)  in Tokyo. “Concerns over Japan’s economic
outlook will probably build pressure on the BOJ to apply more
monetary stimulus,” said Maruyama, who says the central bank
could move in October.  JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. forecasts a 0.3 percent
annualized decline in gross domestic product in the three months
through September, while BNP Paribas SA estimates a 0.9 percent
fall. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey compiled
this month was for 1 percent growth, partly supported by
earthquake reconstruction work.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.2 percent as of 10:20
a.m. in Tokyo. The yen gained 0.2 percent to 78.56 per dollar.  Global Weakness  Grappling with the world’s biggest public debt burden,
Japan’s government is also at risk of a financing crunch.  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today that government funds
may “dry up” up if a financing bill fails to pass in the upper
house of parliament. “We’d have to consider how to save money
while trying to avoid affecting Japanese people’s lives as much
as possible,” he said.  “The Japanese economy is on the way to recovery at a
moderate pace, partly due to reconstruction demand, while some
weak movements are seen recently,” the Cabinet Office said. The
government lowered its economic evaluation of the U.S., Europe,
China, the rest of  Asia  except  India , and said Japan’s overseas
shipments are “growing weaker.”  European austerity measures, U.S. unemployment and China’s
slowdown are weakening global demand. Japan’s bigger-than-
forecast trade deficit in July and slowing economic growth in
the second quarter highlighted pressure on the  Bank of Japan  and
the government to add stimulus.  In the labor market, there are “signs of improvement,
although some severe aspects still remain,” the government said
today. Japan’s unemployment  rate  fell 0.1 percentage point to
4.3 percent in June, while the jobless rate for people aged 15
to 24 dropped 0.9 point to 7.4 percent.  The government will work with the central bank to counter
deflation, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  