-- Japan Stock Futures Little Changed Before Bernanke Speech
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-28T23:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/japan-stock-futures-little-changed-before-bernanke-speech.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  were little changed as investors await a U.S. growth
report today and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
speech on the economy at the end of the week.  American depositary receipts of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, lost 0.7 percent as metal prices
retreated yesterday. ADRs of Sharp Corp. slid 0.3 percent after
the Japanese electronics maker said it plans to book a 27
billion yen ($344 million) cost to fire about 2,000 workers.
Renesas Electronics Corp. shares may move after the Nikkei
reported that Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. will spend 100
billion yen buying new shares of the chipmaker.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring next
month closed at 9,045 in Chicago yesterday, down from 9,050 in
 Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,040 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index advanced 0.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.2 percent in Wellington.  “Bernanke’s probably going to hold fire here, while
sending an encouraging message,” said  Angus Gluskie , managing
director at White Funds Management in Sydney who manages more
than $350 million. “Realistically we’re probably going to see
him say what he’s said over the last couple of months, which is
simply that they will act, but only if conditions continue to
deteriorate. That’s probably neutral for the market.”  Gluskie and Pacific Investment Management Co. Chief
Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian are among money managers
speculating Bernanke probably won’t provide specific plans for
further monetary action at an annual symposium in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming, this week. El-Erian spoke yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu .  Stimulus Needed  The Fed signaled last week it’s ready to take further steps
to spur the economy. Many policy makers said additional stimulus
probably will be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of a
durable pickup, according to minutes released Aug. 22 of the
central bank’s most recent meeting.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent today. The underlying gauge slid 0.1 percent yesterday
as a report showed that confidence among U.S. consumers fell in
August by the most in 10 months.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities
climbed in June from a year earlier, the first gain in almost
two years, indicating the market that triggered the recession is
beginning to rebound.  The Commerce Department’s first revision to U.S. second-
quarter gross domestic product today may show an expansion of
1.7 percent compared with an initially reported 1.5 percent
increase, according to median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . The economy grew 2 percent in the first three
months of the year.  Asia Rally  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index rallied 9.4 percent from this
year’s lowest level through yesterday amid speculation global
central banks will act to stimulate economic growth. Still, the
gauge was 7.5 percent below its high on Feb. 29 amid concern
expansion in economies from  China  to the U.S. is slowing.  Stocks on Asia’s benchmark index were  valued  at 12.4 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.7 for the S&P
500 and 11.6 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The London Metals Exchange Index of six industrial metals
slid 0.5 percent yesterday in London.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 0.5 percent to 89.48.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  