-- Japan Earthquake Spurred Jump in Heart Ailments: Study
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-08-28T12:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/japan-earthquake-spurred-jump-in-heart-ailments-study.html
The earthquake that spawned a
tsunami and a nuclear crisis in  Japan  last year also spurred an
increase in heart-related ailments and pneumonia, according to  a
study .  The weekly figures for heart failure, the inability of the
muscle to pump enough blood around the body, and pneumonia
jumped soon after the earthquake, according to Japanese
researchers who presented their findings today at the  European
Society of Cardiology  meeting in Munich. The result was
sustained for more than six weeks after the tsunami struck,
compared with the previous three years, they said.  “The occurrence of heart failure and pneumonia
significantly increased, then gradually went down to the
previous level, though pneumonia took almost three months to go
down,” Hiroaki Shimokawa, the lead researcher, told journalists
in Munich. Cases of stroke, cardiopulmonary arrest and acute
coronary syndrome, or symptoms of a blocked coronary artery such
as a heart attack, also increased, Shimokawa said.  The findings add to the toll the natural disaster has had
on Japanese health. The island nation, once ranked the No. 1
country for longevity for women and near the top for men, has
fallen to sixth for women and eighth or ninth for men following
the March 11, 2011, disaster, said Shimokawa, a cardiologist at
Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine in Sendai, Japan.  Destroyed Homes  Almost 16,000 people died following the earthquake and more
than 3,000 went missing, the researchers said. About 390,000
homes were destroyed, as well as pharmacies and hospitals, they
said. Suicides also rose, according to a government  report 
released this year.  Radiation from the Fukushima nuclear plant may cause as
many as 1,300 cancer deaths worldwide, according to a July study
that showed fallout from Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s crippled
reactors may be deadlier than predicted.  Shimokawa and his colleagues analyzed more than 120,000
ambulance transport records for the weeks before and after the
earthquake. They also found that people’s  blood pressure  rose
significantly.  When an aftershock of magnitude 7.0 hit on April 7, 2011,
there was another jump in cases of stroke and cardiopulmonary
arrest, the study found.  Blood Pressure  “Taken together, we consider that the discontinuation of
drugs, activated sympathetic nervous system, rising blood
pressure, and the increased occurrence of tachyarrhythmia and
infections were all involved in the increased occurrence of
cardiovascular events after the great earthquake,” Shimokawa
said in a statement.  A spike in acute coronary syndrome would be expected
following such a catastrophic event, because of an increase in
stress hormones, said Spencer King, a professor emeritus at
 Emory University  in Atlanta. Stress can prompt fatty desposits
inside blood vessels to rupture, King, a past president of the
 American College of Cardiology , said in an interview in Munich.
That could lead to clots that cause heart attacks and strokes.  While a short-term increase in cases of cardiovascular
illnesses has been reported with previous earthquakes, the new
study is the first to examine the longer-term effects on heart
health, the researchers said. The data also provide the first
evidence that the incidence of heart failure rose over a long
period after the disaster, they said.  Heart Failure  Patients who stop taking their hypertension medications,
for whatever reason, may develop heart failure, said Mariell
Jessup, president-elect of the American Heart Association. An
irregular heartbeat known as atrial fibrillation might also lead
to heart failure, Jessup said. Symptoms include breathlessness
and tiredness, and don’t usually prompt immediate medical
attention in a crisis such as an earthquake, she said.  “If you’re looking for heart attacks, and someone says,
‘Oh, I’m short of breath,’ that might not jump out,” Jessup
said in an interview in Munich. In addition to trauma
preparations, people organizing disaster drills may want to
incorporate ways to mobilize heart-care specialists to address
cardiovascular illnesses, she said.  The Japanese research doesn’t indicate whether the people
who experienced heart ailments already had cardiovascular
disease, said Donna Arnett, the president of the  American Heart
Association .  “Everyone should be aware of the signs and symptoms of
heart disease and stroke, and seek treatment” if those signs
appear, Arnett said in an interview in Munich. “Once you have a
condition, you should work toward improving everything you can
control: diet, physical activity, not smoking. Engaging in
healthy behavior gets you back on the road to recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  