-- Japan Air May Lose 74 Billion Yen Tax Breaks in Bill
-- B y   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-08-28T15:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/japan-air-may-lose-74-billion-yen-tax-breaks-in-opposition-bill.html
Japan  Airlines Co., set to hold an
initial public offering after a state-backed turnaround, may
lose 74 billion yen ($941 million) of tax breaks under a bill
set to be filed by the nation’s main opposition party.  The bill would change the rules for tax credits awarded
against writedowns by companies that have received government
support, Yasuhisa Shiozaki, a Liberal  Democratic Party  lawmaker,
said at a party meeting In  Tokyo  yesterday. The change would
wipe out 74 billion yen of JAL’s tax credits, he said. He didn’t
say how many credits the carrier holds.  “This is a risk factor for JAL’s IPO,” Shiozaki told
reporters. The bill will be filed in the next few days and the
party will aim to enact in the next session of parliament, which
may start in October. The LDP is about level with the ruling
Democratic Party of Japan in opinion polls ahead of elections
that Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has pledged to call “soon.”  JAL may not have to pay tax for as long as nine years under
existing regulations because of credits earned against
writedowns, including ones made while in bankruptcy protection,
the LDP said in June. The carrier is seeking about 663 billion
yen in an IPO next month after a turnaround that helped
transform the once loss-making company into the world’s most
profitable airline.  The LDP bill is designed to “prevent the distortion of
competition” in all industries, Shiozaki said. It’s not
specifically targeted at the Tokyo-based carrier, he said.
Hisanori Iizuka, a spokesman for JAL, didn’t immediately reply
to a request for comment outside regular office hours yesterday.  Record Profit  JAL posted a record profit of 187 billion yen last fiscal
year after shedding jobs, retiring planes and cutting loss-
making routes. The carrier also benefited from a 35 billion yen
tax break, according to the transport ministry paper distributed
at a June LDP meeting. There wasn’t a forecast for the current
fiscal year.  The company, which exited  bankruptcy protection  last year,
expects net income of 130 billion yen in the year ending March
31. That’s more than three times the 40 billion yen forecast by
All Nippon Airways Co., Japan’s largest carrier.  JAL’s  assets  shrank to 1.1 trillion yen as of March from
2.1 trillion yen in March 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The carrier filed for protection from creditors in
January 2010 and delisted its shares the following month.  JAL intends to list on the Tokyo Stock Exchange on Sept.
19. Its government-backed owner, Enterprise Initiative
Turnaround Corp. of Japan, will sell 175 million shares at a
tentative price of 3,790 yen apiece, according to an Aug. 3
statement. A  price range  is due to be announced tomorrow.  ETIC, which invested 350 billion in JAL, will make a profit
from the share sale, JAL’s Chairman Emeritus Kazuo Inamori said
earlier this month. The carrier won’t raise any money in the
IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  