-- Jets’ Chances of Winning Season Drop in Vegas With No Touchdowns
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-28T04:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/jets-chances-of-winning-season-drop-in-vegas-with-no-touchdowns.html
The  New York  Jets are the first
National Football League team in 35 years without a touchdown
through their first three preseason games, and oddsmakers said
their chances of having a winning season are dropping.  The Jets, who made headlines in the offseason by signing
 Tim Tebow  as a backup to starting quarterback  Mark Sanchez , have
gone 35 drives and 174 plays in the preseason without putting
the ball in the end zone.  With the Jets struggling on offense, the odds at Las Vegas
sports books suggest that coach  Rex Ryan ’s squad now has a 42
percent chance to go 9-7 or better, down from 59 percent earlier
this offseason, according to RJ Bell, the founder of Las Vegas-
handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  “There’s more questions there than there are answers in
terms of their offensive line, in terms of their group of
receivers,” former Pittsburgh Steelers coach Bill Cowher, an
NFL analyst for  CBS Corp. (CBS) , said in an interview. “How patient
is Rex going to be in terms of assessing does he need to make a
change at the quarterback position if they get off to a slow
start? That patience can also be magnified by the chants that
start to come out from the fans.”  The Jets fell to 0-3 in the preseason with a 17-12 loss to
the  Carolina Panthers  two days ago.  “The way I see it, we’re saving all of our good stuff for
the regular season,” said Sanchez, who’s completed 24-of-35
passes for 203 yards, no touchdowns and two interceptions during
the preseason. Tebow has connected on 13-of-36 passes for 151
yards and has also been intercepted twice while rushing for 84
yards on 11 carries.  ‘Making Strides’  The Jets, who are coming off an 8-8 season following
consecutive trips to the American Football Conference
championship game under Ryan, open their 2012 regular-season
schedule on Sept. 9 against the  Buffalo Bills . Ryan said the
offense is “making strides” as the opener approaches.  “By the time we get going, we will be a confident group,”
Ryan said. “I don’t think there’s any doubt. Have we had our
entire offensive package out there in the preseason? No. Do we
feel comfortable with our offense? I would say yes.”  The last team that failed to score a touchdown in its first
three preseason games was the  1977 Atlanta Falcons . The Falcons
went on to have a 7-7 record that season and missed the playoffs
while ranking 25th out of 28 NFL teams in points scored. Their
defense allowed the fewest points in the league.  Before the preseason, oddsmakers listed the Jets’ projected
number of wins at 8.5, with bettors expecting nine wins or more
having to wager $145 to win $100. While the team’s over/under
for wins is still 8.5, bettors now can wager $100 to make a $140
profit on the Jets to go 9-7 or better.  Winning Record?  Those odds indicate the Jets’ chances of having a winning
season have moved to 42 percent from 59 percent, Bell said.  While disappointed about the inability to score against the
Panthers, Tebow said the Jets realize it’s still the preseason
and the records don’t count yet.  “You have to work on what you did bad and how you can get
better and make sure that when the regular season gets here and
we’re playing Buffalo, we can put the ball in the end zone,
because that’s what matters,” said Tebow, whom the Jets
acquired in a March trade with the  Denver Broncos .  After the Jets landed Tebow, their odds of winning the
 Super Bowl  were 25-1, according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super
Book. They’ve now moved to 35-1, “a reflection of their lack of
positive production” in the preseason, said LVH assistant
sports book manager  Jeff Sherman . Of the NFL’s other 31 teams,
15 have better odds to win the Super Bowl than the Jets.  While oddsmakers, analysts and fans question the Jets,
Sanchez said morale is high as the regular season approaches.  “We’ve got to score touchdowns instead of field goals to
win. We understand that,” Sanchez said. “We’re steadily
improving and, hopefully, we’ll make a big jump for that first
game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  