-- Jindal Says Obama’s Storm Relief Falls Short of State Needs
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-08-28T18:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/jindal-says-obama-s-storm-funding-falls-short-of-state-s-needs.html
Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , who
has criticized Barack Obama for excessive federal spending, said
the president isn’t providing enough funding to cover the costs
of Hurricane Isaac.  Jindal, a 41-year-old Republican, said in a Baton Rouge
news briefing today that he sent a  letter  of complaint to the
Democratic president.  “You can’t wait, you have to push the federal
bureaucracy,” he said.  Jindal wrote yesterday evening that Isaac requires
“extraordinary emergency protective measures” and “full
federal assistance for the state.” The president’s emergency
declaration doesn’t provide for reimbursement of state expenses,
only for “direct federal assistance,” Jindal wrote.  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said the goal of the
initial declaration was to get federal aid out immediately.
“We’ll continue to work with state officials to provide any
unmet needs,” he told reporters today. “There will be time to
explore if additional declarations are necessary.”  Readiness Costs  Federal Emergency Management Agency  Administrator Craig Fugate also addressed Jindal’s complaint during a conference
call with reporters. He said the money Jindal was asking for
would come through “a reimbursement program which will come
after the fact. We felt it was more important to get the first
part out, the direct federal assistance.”  Louisiana has spent about $8 million, issued evacuation
orders for nine areas and declared emergencies in 34 parishes.
School has been canceled and the state has activated more than
4,000 members of the Louisiana National Guard, prepared 300
buses and 5,000 shelters, Jindal said.  The governor has criticized federal spending under Obama.
He gave the Republican response to Obama’s first  State of the
Union  speech in February 2009, attacking stimulus measures he
said were larded with waste. He was endorsed as a vice-
presidential pick for Romney in May by  Grover Norquist , head of
Americans for  Tax Reform , which opposes taxes and federal
 government spending .  Splitting Costs  “When reality catches up with rhetoric, those extreme
right-wing anti-government positions not only don’t work, but
advocates of those positions will flip-flop,” Craig Varoga, a
Democratic political consultant in Washington and former New
Orleans resident, said in a telephone interview today.  The president’s order authorizes the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and the Department of  Homeland Security  to
coordinate all relief efforts and provide assistance in 15
parishes. The federal government will pay for 75 percent of the
cost of the emergency measures, according to the order, which
Obama signed yesterday.  When Hurricane Gustav struck in 2008, Republican President
 George Bush  also authorized the same level of aid as Obama did
for Louisiana.  “We make no apologies for fighting for the people of
Louisiana, regardless of who is president,” Kyle Plotkin, a
Jindal spokesman, said in an e-mail today. “We’ve learned from
past experience that you have to push the federal bureaucracy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Baton Rouge at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta  at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  