-- Kuwait’s Index Rises on Bets This Month’s Fall Is Overdone
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-08-28T12:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/kuwait-s-index-rises-on-bets-this-month-s-fall-is-overdone.html
Kuwait ’s benchmark stock index rose
to the highest in more than a month on bets that the gauge’s
decline to an eight-year low earlier this month was overdone.  Agility (AGLTY) , the Kuwaiti storage and logistic company, and
Islamic lender  Boubyan Bank KSC (BOUBYAN)  rose the most in two weeks.
 National Mobile Telecommunications Co. (NMTC) , also known as Wataniya
Telecom, closed at the highest in four and a half years after
parent  Qatar Telecom (QTEL)  QSC made a cash offer for all of the
company it didn’t already own. The  Kuwait Stock Exchange index 
rose 0.9 percent to 5,839.45, its highest close since July 22.
The gauge fell to its lowest in eight years on Aug. 12. The
Bloomberg GCC 200 Index was down less than one percent.  Investors held back during Islam’s holy month of Ramadan
and “now feel more comfortable buying shares that would benefit
if a rebound happens,” Carlos Ribeiro,  Gulf Bank KSC (GBK) ’s chief
financial officer said by telephone. Investors are picking
“particular companies in very particular industries” that will
be part of a rally after the dip in the index, he said.  Repeated cabinet resignations and political disputes have
slowed Kuwait’s development plans. Prime Minister Sheikh Jaber
al-Mubarak Al-Sabah formed a cabinet on July 19, its 10th since
February 2006. Parliament failed to convene July 31 as most
lawmakers boycotted the session.  Agility rose 2.4 percent to 420 fils. The company said
yesterday it won a 27-month contract from the U.K. Ministry of
Defence that will yield revenue of $15 million.  Boubyan Bank gained 1.7 percent to 610 fils, while  Wataniya
Telecom  rose 0.8 percent to 2,560 fils.  Qatar Telecom , majority owned by the gas-rich country’s
government, on Aug. 16 offered to buy all of Wataniya shares
that it doesn’t already own at 2,600 fils each.  Kuwait’s stocks were hurt in August by the political
turmoil and on fears some companies will be suspended from
trading after failing to meet an Aug. 16 deadline to disclose
quarterly results, according to Fouad Darwish, head of brokerage
at Kuwait-based Global Investment House KSCC.  “People were scared and hesitant to put new money into the
market but 81 companies disclosed results” in the last week and
only one company was suspended, Darwish said. “Ever since that
deadline, we’ve been having upwards closing, and the last seven
sessions the index has been regaining,” he said.  Asian stocks fell today, with the regional benchmark index
heading for a three-week low, after Japan downgraded its
assessment of the world’s third-biggest economy and as investors
await policy direction from the  Federal Reserve . European stocks
also declined and U.S. index futures were little changed.  Elsewhere in the Gulf region, Dubai’s DFM General Index
fell 0.9 percent and  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX General Index dropped 0.6
percent. Oman’s MSM30 Index dropped 0.5 percent while Bahrain’s
measure rose 0.1 percent. Qatar’s QE Index lost 0.2 percent and
Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net 
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  