-- New York Can Allow Fracking After It Gets the Rules Right
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-28T22:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/new-york-can-allow-fracking-after-it-gets-the-rules-right.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  is
expected to soon lift the state’s moratorium on natural-gas
drilling, in place since 2010, at least  for some counties .  That would be welcome news. Extracting gas from the
Marcellus shale using horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing can create jobs, lower energy prices and lessen the
U.S.’s reliance on (dirtier) coal and oil to generate
electricity and heat.  In announcing the decision, rumored to be coming in
September, Cuomo, a Democrat, will probably unveil new rules for
drilling. Here is where the rest of the country will want to pay
attention. As it makes a fresh start in the gas business, New
York has the opportunity to be a model for all states that want
to reap the economic benefits of the natural-gas boom without
endangering the air and water.  One underlying aspect of these regulations -- which will
cover everything from drilling and well construction to
wastewater disposal -- is especially important to get right, and
that is transparency. The state needs to not only demand clean
operating procedures but also require that all companies
involved with drilling let the public know what they are doing
and when, and what chemicals they are using to do it.  Much concern has been voiced by neighbors of drilling
operations about the chemicals used in the fracking process. To
break up the rock and allow the gas within to escape, drilling
companies pump huge quantities of water, sand and a proprietary
mixture of chemicals at high pressure into the well. There is
reason to  worry  that -- despite the great depth at which wells
are fracked, often more than a mile below the surface -- some of
this mixture might make its way into drinking water, especially
if it is spilled after it comes back up through the wellhead to
the surface. The public needs to know what these chemicals are.  States where natural gas is being extracted have been
getting on board the frack-chemical disclosure bandwagon. In the
past two years, more than a dozen have created or tightened
their regulations. As states have taken action, the drilling
industry has generally  reduced  its resistance to transparency.  The best rules -- those in  Ohio  and  Pennsylvania , for
example -- require disclosure both of chemicals that the U.S.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration considers
hazardous to workers and of all other chemicals intentionally
used in frack fluids. Although state rules generally limit who
can see chemical information that companies consider
proprietary, the best ones define such limitations narrowly. And
they make sure regulators and doctors have access to all the
details they need to do their jobs.  Ideally, this level of transparency should extend beyond
the fracking mixtures to include all substances put below
ground, such as those used in “spudding” (starting to drill) a
new well, new drilling in old wells (which can involve
injections of corrosion inhibitors and bacteria-killing agents)
and plugging a spent well.  John Kasich , the Republican governor
of Ohio, recently proposed that his state require such “spud-to-
plug” disclosure. The Ohio legislature unfortunately rejected
the idea, but did at least demand disclosure of all substances
used in drilling the first few hundred feet of a well.  Disclosure should also be required for  above-ground
pollution . That means wastewater, which is often held in open
pits, from which pollutants can get into the air. Regulators and
the public should know how much wastewater each well produces,
where it is held or transported and how it is ultimately
disposed of.  Total openness is not a new concept; the secretary of
Energy’s Shale Gas Production Subcommittee has  called for  it,
and for the information to be posted on a public website. Such a
requirement might at first raise hackles among gas drillers, yet
it is in the industry’s interest to keep its operations open to
scrutiny so that undue public resistance doesn’t get in the way
of responsible drilling.  Although we like the idea of lifting the  New York 
moratorium on gas drilling, there’s no reason to hurry. With the
price of natural gas still only about $2.60 a thousand cubic
feet, an opening now would not cause a rush to drill. Companies
will be more inclined to wait for the price to rise to about $5,
as is expected over the next few years. That will allow plenty
of time to get New York’s regulations right.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on using the  Strategic Petroleum
Reserve  to hold down gasoline prices;  Margaret Carlson  on  Mitt
Romney’s odd sense of humor ; Clive Crook on the  foreign policy
Romney won’t adopt ; Jonathan Mahler on how the Red Sox and
Dodgers  ended a baseball era ; John Paul Rollert on  Paul Ryan ,
 the salesman who never takes no  for an answer.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 