-- New York Rallies Most Since March on Cuomo Fixes: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-08-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/new-york-rallies-most-since-march-on-cuomo-fixes-muni-credit.html
New York’s debt is rallying the most
since March as the Empire State’s first consecutive on-time
budgets since 2006 leave it poised for its highest  credit rating 
in four decades.  Five months after Governor  Andrew Cuomo  pushed through this
year’s spending plan and a pension revamp projected to save $20
billion over 30 years,  Standard & Poor’s  yesterday boosted the
outlook on the third-most populous state’s general obligations
to positive from stable. Two more years of balanced budgets may
merit a one-step rating increase to AA+, S&P said. Even as the
state’s  jobless rate  exceeds the national average, it may earn
the highest rating since it was cut to AA from AAA in 1972.  Investors demand about 0.37 percentage point of  extra yield 
to hold 10-year debt of New York and its municipalities rather
than AAA tax-exempts, the smallest difference since March,
according to Bloomberg Fair Value data. The gap has shrunk about
25 percent since the start of the year.  The outlook change “will build a base around advancements
we’ve seen in  New York  paper,” said Matt Dalton, who manages
about $1.2 billion in munis at Belle Haven Investments Inc. in
 White Plains , New York. “New York has resiliency because it has
the ability to make changes by raising taxes and cutting
services.”  Balance Shrunk  Cuomo has done that since taking office in January 2011.
Before his first budget was passed, a $14.9 billion imbalance
was forecast for the current fiscal year, S&P said yesterday.
The 54-year-old Democrat closed the gap in part by restraining
growth in Medicaid expenses, cutting school funding costs and
raising taxes on joint filers earning more than $2 million
annually.  “We base the outlook revision on what we view as the
state’s movement toward structurally balanced budgets in the
past two years,” David Hitchcock, an S&P analyst, said in a
statement.  Neighboring New Jersey, where Republican Governor  Chris Christie  is also in his first term, has a AA- grade from S&P,
one level lower, with a stable outlook. Ten-year debt from New
Jersey issuers yielded  0.45 percentage point  above benchmark
munis yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. New Jersey’s
9.8 percent jobless rate exceeds New York’s 9.1 percent level.
The national rate is 8.3 percent.  Growing Appetite  Neil Klein at Carret Asset Management said the company has
been adding New York debt in the past year.  “Our appetite for New York bonds is greater now than it
has been in previous years,” said Klein, who manages $1.2
billion of fixed income at Carret in New York. “We view New
York as a very, very diverse economic powerhouse.”  New York is still trailing the broader $3.7 trillion
municipal market this year. The state’s bonds have earned 5.2
percent, compared with 5.9 percent for the market as a whole,
according to S&P data.  New Jersey  has earned 6.7 percent.  Returns from New York are lagging behind as the state and
its local governments are on a pace to sell more debt than any
other state, beating their  California  counterparts for a second
straight year.  New York issuers have offered about $30.2 billion in long-
term, fixed rate debt, to $27.7 billion for California, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. In 2011, New York sales totaled
$33.8 billion, compared with $31.7 billion for the world’s No. 9
economy.  Fiscal Challenge  Cuomo also faces the challenge of declining contributions
from financial workers to the state’s revenue.  Wall Street’s cash bonus pool fell 14 percent last year to
$19.7 billion, the lowest since 2008, according to New York
state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli . A global slump in trading and
deal-making is prompting some banks to pare jobs in their
securities divisions.  Business and personal income-tax collections from the
financial industry accounted for as much as 20 percent of New
York tax revenue before the start of the financial crisis in
2008, according DiNapoli. The contribution fell to 14 percent
last year.  New York ranked 20th in economic health among the 50 U.S.
states and the  District of Columbia  in the year through March,
according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States. New
Jersey was 41st.  The BEES Index is based on the performance of local-company
shares, tax collections,  home prices , mortgage delinquencies,
job growth and personal income, giving equal weight to each.  Overhaul Victory  A pension overhaul Cuomo pushed through a divided
Legislature also was key to the revision, S&P said. It was among
victories including a law legalizing same-sex marriage and a
property tax cap that helped push Cuomo’s approval ratings to
record highs.  The change approved by lawmakers in March raised the
 retirement age  to 63 from 62 for new workers, and for the first
time offered a 401(k)-type  retirement plan  to some non-union
workers.  “This proves the state is on the right track,” Cuomo said
on a conference call with reporters yesterday. “We hope to keep
it going. We have to continue to see what happens with the
economy, but we’re on the right track.”  Following are pending sales:  FLORIDA MUNICIPAL POWER AGENCY plans to sell a combined
$140 million of debt as soon as tomorrow, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The issuance will refund debt and finance
capital projects, according to sale documents. (Added Aug. 28)  TEXAS plans to sell $155.4 million of general-obligation
debt for water projects, according to bond documents. The state
is set to issue the bonds as soon as next month, Bloomberg data
show. (Added Aug. 27)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  