-- Norway’s PM Vows to Boost Terror Preparedness After Breivik
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-08-28T12:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/norway-s-premier-vows-to-boost-terror-preparedness-after-breivik.html
Norway ’s Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg vowed to boost safeguards against terrorist attacks
after a report concluded his administration could have done more
to prevent Anders Behring Breivik massacring 77 people.  “Allow me to share a realization with parliament: The
commission revealed shortcomings in Norway’s emergency response
and emergency culture that are more extensive and deeper than I
had expected,” Stoltenberg said in a speech to the legislature
in Oslo today. “That’s difficult to take in. I’m all the more
confident that we will correct the errors.”  The July 22 Commission, which published its findings on
Aug. 13, said the government could have halted the bombing of
the premier’s office and that police failed to respond
effectively to the attacks, leading to “unacceptable” delays.
The findings prompted Norway’s largest tabloid newspaper VG to
call for Stoltenberg’s resignation.  Stoltenberg, who faces elections next year, has said he
will stay in office. Police Chief Oeystein Maeland stepped down
the same week as the report was released after Justice Minister
Knut Storberget resigned in November.  Breivik last year bombed the premier’s office, killing
eight, and took 69 lives in a shooting spree at the Utoeya
island youth camp. He was last week sentenced to 21 years in
jail, with the option for extensions, after all five judges
found him mentally fit for prison.  Large Sums  Stoltenberg presented a series of measures, including a new
emergency response center for the police in Oslo and more
frequent emergency drills at all levels of his administration.
The police will also in the future be able to draw on the
military when it needs helicopters, and more measures will be
outlined in “due course,” the government said.  “We’re talking about many billions of kroner,”
Stoltenberg said at a briefing. “We should be prepared for the
fact that this will require significant resources, large sums,
over a long time.”  The Justice Ministry is also looking into making it easier
to prosecute to prevent terrorist acts and is even exploring the
option of banning semi-automatic weapons. 