-- Novartis Smoker’s Cough Treatment Beats Glaxo’s Advair in Trial
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-08-28T16:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/novartis-smoker-s-cough-treatment-beats-glaxo-s-advair-in-trial.html
Patients taking  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
experimental once-daily treatment for smoker’s cough showed a
significant improvement in lung function over those on an
existing medicine marketed by  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , which is also
developing a successor drug.  Patients taking Novartis’s QVA149 were able to expel 100
milliliters (3.4 ounces) more air from their lungs in one second
than those receiving Glaxo’s best-selling Advair after 26 weeks
of treatment, according to a  summary  of data from a trial dubbed
“Illuminate” to be presented at the European Respiratory
Society annual meeting next week.  The result “underscores the upside potential for QVA149 to
take material market share in  lung disease ,”  Andrew Baum , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a note to investors today.  QVA149 is designed to improve lung function by targeting
receptors to open up the airways. Smoker’s cough, or chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, affects at least 64 million
people according to the  World Health Organization,  which
predicts the condition will become the third-leading cause of
death worldwide by 2030.  Novartis announced in April that patients taking its
medicine had better lung function than those taking the Glaxo
treatment in the Illuminate study, without quantifying the
advantage.  Glaxo’s Competitor  Glaxo and partner  Theravance Inc. (THRX)  are competing with
Novartis by developing their UMEC/VI treatment, which also
targets receptors to open up the airways.  In a study of UMEC, twice daily dosing showed no advantage
over once daily dosing, according to the summary on the
conference website of a separate study. Glaxo sees once daily
dosing as a major benefit to patients in providing convenience
and boosting adherence to the treatment regimen.  While better patient responses resulted from higher doses
of UMEC, the summary did not detail the magnitude of the
difference in efficacy.  “Previous dose-ranging studies and our due diligence
suggest a risk that lower UMEC doses could give a similar
magnitude of effect,” Baum said.  This may result in U.S. regulators requesting additional
lower-dose studies, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  