-- NuvoTV Gets $40 Million to Make English Shows for Latinos
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-28T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/nuvotv-gets-40-million-to-make-english-shows-for-latinos.html
NuvoTV, a cable network that airs
English-language shows tailored for Hispanic audiences, said it
raised $40 million from investors to produce more programming
and pay for marketing.  The funding is from current investors Columbia Capital LLC
and Rho Capital Partners Inc., and new investors Veronis Suhler
Stevenson LLC and Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC, Los Angeles-
based NuvoTV said today in a statement. Other financial details
weren’t disclosed.  NuvoTV, founded in 2004, needs programming that TV studios
aren’t already creating on their own, Chief Executive Officer
Michael Schwimmer said in an interview. U.S. Hispanic viewers,
the majority of whom watch Engligh-language TV, are seeking
shows with Latino actors and scenarios that better reflect their
lives, he said.  “There remains a real unmet need for culturally relevant
programming for an English-speaking Hispanic audience,”
Schwimmer said. “There’s an enormous amount of English-language
consumption by Latinos. It’s the fastest growing segment by far,
there’s none even close.”  Other media companies are targeting the same audience.  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s biggest media company, and Univision
Communications Inc., the biggest Spanish-language broadcaster in
the U.S., announced plans in May to start an English-language
cable-news channel for Hispanic audiences by the end of the
year.  Scripted Shows  NuvoTV displayed six new shows at the annual upfront
meetings with advertisers in May, in preparation for the TV
season that starts next month, Schwimmer said. About half the
network’s schedule is original programming and the channel plans
to invest in scripted shows, he said.  The network’s biggest advertisers include  Verizon Wireless ,
State Farm insurance,  General Motors Co. (GM)  vehicles,  Burger King (BKW) 
and Toyota, he said. Marketers will spend more to reach the
Hispanic audience, Schwimmer said.  NuvoTV is available in 30 million U.S. homes through pay-TV
systems operated by  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , AT&T U-verse, Verizon
FiOS,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , Cox Communications Inc. and  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)  The network is working on a significant distribution
agreement that may be announced soon, Schwimmer said.  None of the investors owns a controlling stake, said
Schwimmer, who said he oversees NuvoTV’s five-member board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  