-- Obama Fuel-Economy Rule Gives Sweeteners to Honda, Tesla
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-08-30T02:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/obama-completes-54-5-mpg-fuel-economy-mandate-for-cars.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) , which last year
complained that a proposed fuel-economy rule was unfair to non-
U.S. automakers, got a boost when the final version added extra
credits for sellers of natural gas-powered vehicles.  Honda, based in  Tokyo , is the only automaker selling
compressed natural gas-powered cars to U.S. drivers and will be
able to use the credits to meet the fuel-economy standards. It’s
one of the few changes made to a  rule  for 2017 to 2025 that was
proposed in November 2011 and released in final form by
President  Barack Obama ’s administration yesterday.  “Providing incentive credits for natural gas vehicles
makes a great deal of sense under this regulation,” Edward Cohen, Honda vice president of government and industry
relations, said in an e-mail yesterday. “A dedicated natural
gas vehicle reduces CO2 emissions by 25 percent and petroleum
consumption by 100 percent.”  The corporate average fuel economy, or CAFE, rule may cost
the  auto industry  as much $136 billion to comply with, while
saving consumers up to $451 billion in fuel costs, regulators
from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and  National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration  said in a briefing. They
declined to be named because they weren’t authorized to be
quoted about the rule.  Added Incentive  “With this added incentive from the government, Toyota, GM
and other carmakers may follow and introduce cars that run on
natural gas,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $500
million in assets at Tokyo-based Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. “The market isn’t established yet, so it may not directly
lead to a boost in sales, but being a leader may boost Honda’s
share price.”  The rule compels automakers to double the average fuel
economy of passenger vehicles sold in the U.S. by 2025, through
gradual increases in the rates at which they must improve
mileage and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  Honda,  Japan ’s third-largest carmaker, signed on to the
rule’s framework after complaining in an e-mail that the plan,
containing extra credits for hybrid pickup trucks made by U.S.-
based automakers, “communicates favoritism and an unfair
playing field to all market participants.”  2011 Negotiations  Obama’s administration and most global automakers agreed on
the framework in July 2011 after private negotiations that
Representative  Darrell Issa , a  California  Republican, has
characterized as improper.  The e-mail from Robert Bienenfeld, Honda senior manager for
environment and energy strategy, to top officials at the EPA and
NHTSA was disclosed in a report released earlier this month by
the staff of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, led by Issa.  Providing extra credit for sales of natural gas vehicles
may allow fuel cell-powered cars to become more common in the
U.S., said an EPA official who wasn’t authorized to speak about
the rule and declined to be named. Fuel cells operate on
hydrogen, the universe’s most abundant element, which is
available in high volume for industrial use by reforming natural
gas or splitting water molecules using electricity.  New Market  Small automakers such as  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  may benefit from
another change written into the final rule that builds on a
market California opened this year for sellers of zero-emission
vehicles such as plug-ins or those powered by hydrogen.  It would allow  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla, which
only makes plug-in electric vehicles, to sell any credits for
exceeding the fuel-economy standards to companies that don’t
meet their quotas.  “The new standards encourage the introduction of
alternative fuel vehicles through credit earning and trading,”
Christina Ra, a Tesla spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. Tesla
“can support” other automakers’ compliance with the rule by
selling both greenhouse gas and CAFE credits, she said.  Tesla’s newest model, the Model S plug-in electric car, has
an 89 mpg-equivalent fuel-economy rating, she said.  Technologies that improve  fuel efficiency  and reduce
emissions from gasoline- and diesel-powered internal-combustion
engines will gain sales from the rule, said Roland Hwang,
director of the  Natural Resources Defense Council ’s
transportation program.  Gasoline Engines  Adding stop-start technology, which cuts power to engines
when a vehicle is stopped; and continuously variable
transmissions, or using lighter-weight materials, are ways
automakers can meet the standards with traditional engines, he
said in an interview.  “This is going to spur a lot of interest in lightweight
materials,” Hwang said. “Aluminum, high-strength steel,
magnesium, all of those composites. More technology means more
jobs.”  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , which sells turbochargers to
European automakers, expects to gain sales from the rule.  “In the U.S., we expect to see turbo penetration in light
vehicle industry sales move from just more than 10 percent now
to more than 20 percent by 2016 as manufacturers continue the
process of downsizing and turbocharging to increase miles per
gallon in all segments,” Tony Schultz, Honeywell Turbo
Technologies Americas vice president, said in an e-mail.  Honeywell, based in  Morris Township ,  New Jersey , plans to
begin supplying turbochargers for vehicles sold in the U.S. to
companies including  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  and
Chrysler Group LLC “in the next few years,” he said.  $8,000 Savings  The Obama administration says that the rule announced
yesterday, coupled with another fuel-economy improvement mandate
for vehicles from model years 2012 to 2016, will reduce U.S. oil
consumption by 12 billion barrels and lead to fuel savings of
more than $8,000 by 2025 over the life of a vehicle. Boosting
average fuel economy is part of Obama’s plan to reduce oil
imports and use. Promoting purchases of more fuel-efficient
vehicles can help reduce the use of fossil fuels.  The National Automobile Dealers Association said it’s
concerned that vehicle price increases of about $3,000 from the
two rules will price consumers out of the new-car market.  “If the consumer isn’t buying new cars, we’ve got the
jalopy effect going that they’re going to keep the car they have
and won’t be able to get to new things,” Bill Underriner, the
McLean, Virginia-based group’s chairman and a Montana auto
dealer, said in an interview. “It’s not going to help
anybody.”  The fuel standards announced yesterday will add as much as
$1,800 to the average cost of vehicles by 2025 and be more than
offset by savings in fuel spending, EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  said yesterday on a phone call with reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  