-- Obama Warns Gulf Coast Don’t Tempt Fate as Stronger Isaac Comes
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-08-28T14:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/obama-warns-gulf-coast-don-t-tempt-fate-as-stronger-isaac-comes.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’s
ordered the federal government to do “everything possible” to
help those in the path of Tropical Storm Isaac and called on
 Gulf Coast  residents not to “tempt fate.”  “We’re dealing with a big storm,” Obama said in remarks
from the White House. “Now’s not the time to tempt fate,” he
said. “You need to take this seriously.”  The president earlier declared an emergency for Louisiana,
authorizing agencies to coordinate relief efforts.  He said the  Federal Emergency Management Agency  had been on
the ground for more than a week getting response teams and
supplies ready. People in the storm’s path should follow the
advice of local officials including any instructions to evacuate.  The storm was forecast to become a hurricane today, a day
before the seven-year anniversary of  Hurricane Katrina , which
took 1,800 lives after levees protecting  New Orleans  failed.  Obama spoke as the  Republican National Convention  was under
way in Tampa, Florida, to formally nominate Mitt Romney to
challenge Obama in the November presidential election.  Disrupted Convention  Isaac has disrupted the convention, with yesterday’s
programming scrapped and television coverage of the storm taking
away coverage time.  Isaac’s winds neared hurricane strength today as it shut 78
percent of oil production in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and sent
gasoline futures to a four-month high.  The storm’s center was 105 miles southeast of the mouth of
the Mississippi River with top winds of 70 miles per hour, 5 mph
less than hurricane strength, the National Hurricane Center said
in an advisory at 8:05 a.m.  New York  time.  The storm halted 48 percent of natural-gas production in
the Gulf and forced evacuations from 346 production platforms
and 41 rigs, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
said yesterday. Four refineries in Louisiana were shut, idling
combined capacity of 832,700 barrels a day, or 4.8 percent of
the U.S. total, and at least four are running at reduced rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Anderson Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net 
Margaret Talev in Tampa, Florida at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  