-- Obama Seeks Youth Vote in College Tour of Swing States
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/obama-seeks-youth-vote-in-college-tour-of-swing-states.html
President  Barack Obama , seeking to
stoke enthusiasm among young voters who have been his strongest
supporters, is offering reassurance to college-age audiences
facing a tight job market amid a sluggish economic recovery.  “Your generation chooses the path we take as a country,”
Obama said at a rally yesterday on the campus of  Iowa State
University  in Ames. “We know we still have a lot of work to do
to get to where we need to be, but we will get there.”  As Republican  Mitt Romney  prepares to accept his party’s
presidential nomination this week in Tampa,  Florida , Obama is
spending two days before college-age crowds in the swing states
of Iowa,  Colorado  and  Virginia .  Emphasizing issues such as alternative energy, aid for
education and same-sex marriage, Obama appealed to his audiences
to help “finish what we started” in the 2008 election.  He wraps up the campaign foray today at an amphitheater in
Charlottesville, Virginia, home to the  University of Virginia .  Younger voters helped propel Obama to the White House in
2008, when he received 66 percent of their support, according to
exit polls. Now, with U.S. unemployment at 8.3 percent and the
rate for those 20 to 24 years of age at 13.5 percent, his pitch
to young voters may be a more difficult sell.  “The kids fell madly in love with him,” said  Wendy Schiller , an associate professor of political science at  Brown
University  in Providence,  Rhode Island . While Obama enjoyed
rock-star popularity among the college set in 2008, she said,
“Now, they’re a little disillusioned.”  Loyal Supporters  Still, young voters remain Obama’s most loyal supporters,
with 61 percent of those ages 18 to 29 favoring the Democratic
president in a July Pew Research Center poll of 2,973 adults.
Romney won support from 37 percent of that age bracket in the
poll, which had a margin of error of plus or minus 2.1
percentage points.  Working in Obama’s favor, Schiller said, is an agenda that
includes keeping  interest rates  low on  student loans  and
supporting the so-called DREAM Act, which would give legal
residency to certain illegal immigrants who came to the U.S. as
minors and meet other criteria.  At  Colorado State University  in  Fort Collins  yesterday,
Obama reminded a crowd estimated at 13,000 of those programs. He
also mentioned his support for renewable energy, ending the  Iraq
war , repeal of the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy that
prevented gay troops from serving openly and other
accomplishments he said wouldn’t have been possible without
young voters.  ’Your Power’  “I just want all of you to understand your power,” he
told the gathering, which packed a lawn in the mid-afternoon
sun. “Don’t give it away.”  He also gave a fiery defense of his health-care law, which
Romney has vowed to repeal. He said almost 7 million young
people have insurance because of a provision in the law that
lets them stay on their parents’ insurance plans until age 26.  “I’m not going to leave millions of Americans out in the
cold,” Obama said. “That’s what we’re fighting for. That’s
what’s at stake in this election.”  The Romney campaign is betting that a weak job market and
rising college costs will make younger voters think twice about
backing a president whose message of hope and change four years
ago may now ring hollow.  “Under this president, too many young Americans are
suffering from higher college costs, more debt and a lack of
good jobs when they graduate,” Amanda Henneberg, a Romney
campaign spokeswoman, said in a statement. “President Obama’s
policies are just more of the same from a president who hasn’t
fixed the economy or kept his promises to the young people who
supported him four years ago.”  State Unemployment  The  unemployment rate  rose last month in 11 battleground
states that are central to the election strategy for both
campaigns.  The rate in Colorado ticked up to 8.3 percent in July from
8.2 percent in June. In Iowa the rate rose to 5.3 percent from
5.1 percent, and in Virginia it rose to 5.9 percent from 5.7
percent.  Obama carried each of the states he is visiting on the
trip, and in each he is leading Romney by less than 2 percentage
points, according to an average of surveys compiled by the Real
Clear Politics website.  Close Race  In Virginia, with 13 of the 270 electoral votes needed to
win the presidency, Obama leads Romney by 47.3 percent to 46.7
percent, according to an average of three surveys.  In  Iowa , with six electoral votes, an average of four polls
shows Obama leading Romney by 45.3 percent to 44.3 percent. In
Colorado, where the candidates are fighting for nine electoral
votes, Obama is leading by 47.6 percent to 46 percent, according
to an average of five surveys.  Romney “is seen as somebody who will probably create a
better environment for the students who graduate and can’t find
a job,” Schiller said.  Obama took note of this week’s Republican convention,
saying it “should be a pretty entertaining show.”  “But what you won’t hear from them is a path forward that
meets the challenges of our time,” he said.  The challenge for Obama will be to get younger voters
motivated enough to cast a ballot. Even as he energized many of
them in 2008, only 58.5 percent of registered voters 18 to 24
voted, compared with 69.9 percent of those 35 to 44, and 76.6
percent of those 75 and older.  It was Obama’s 12th visit to Iowa and 10th to Colorado
since becoming president. He has been to both states six times
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Ames, Iowa, at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  