-- Obama Backers Begin $30 Million Campaign as Republicans Meet
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-08-28T15:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/obama-backers-begin-30-million-ad-campaign-as-republicans-meet.html
A group supporting President  Barack Obama  is starting a $30 million advertising campaign today
attacking Mitt Romney as the  Republican National Convention  gets
under way.  The ad paid for by Priorities USA Action, a super-political
action committee headed by former Obama aides, features Olive
Chase, a registered independent and small business owner in
 Massachusetts . She voted for Romney in 2002 when he won the
governorship of that state and she gave money to his campaign.
Ten years later, she is no longer a supporter.  “Governor Romney cares about big business; he cares about
tax cuts for wealthy people, and I certainly do not believe he
cares about my hardworking employees,” Chase says in the ad.
“I feel like I was duped by  Mitt Romney . I’m going to vote for
President Obama.”  Priorities USA Action previously spent $20 million on ads
challenging Romney’s business experience and character, focusing
on the former private equity executive’s time at the helm of
Boston-based Bain Capital LLC. Those attacks said Romney and his
partners at Bain created profits for themselves at the expense
of working-class Americans.  The new ad will run online and on television outlets in the
battleground states of Florida,  Colorado , Iowa, Ohio and
Virginia. It is the first in a series of spots planned by the
group that will focus on Romney’s record as governor and his
possible impact on middle-class voters if elected president.  “Americans are going to hear a lot of about Mitt Romney
this week,” said  Bill Burton , co-founder of the super-PAC,
referring to the Republican convention. “These new ads are
designed to make sure voters hear the whole story.”  According to the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based research group that tracks campaign donations,
Chase hasn’t donated to Obama’s presidential campaigns. She did
give $1,000 in April to Representative Bill Keating, a
Massachusetts Democrat.  Romney’s campaign called the new ad a “desperate attempt”
to distract from the president’s economic record.  “President Obama’s policies have devastated the middle
class and led to record unemployment and less take-home pay,”
said Amanda Henneberg, a campaign spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  