-- Oil Rises on U.S. Supply Forecast, Venezuela Blaze
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-28T12:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/oil-advances-on-u-s-supply-forecast-venezuela-refinery-blaze.html
Oil rose for the first time in four
days in  New York  as U.S. crude inventories were forecast to
drop, a storm headed for the  Gulf of Mexico  and a fire halted
output at  Venezuela ’s biggest refinery.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably fell by  2 million barrels 
last week, or 0.6 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before an Energy Department report tomorrow. Tropical Storm
Isaac was near hurricane strength as it headed for the  Gulf
coast , according to the National Hurricane Center. Processing
units at Venezuela’s 645,000 barrel-a-day Amuay plant remain
halted after a gas explosion on Aug. 25 that killed 48 people.
Oil also increased before a U.S. Federal Reserve symposium in
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming, on Aug. 31.  “Crude trade will remain jittery this week as storm-
related disruptions and refinery and storage tank fires in
Venezuela keep investors on edge,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an
analyst at VTB Capital in  London . “On top of that we have
expectations of action from central bankers.”  Oil for October delivery advanced as much as $1.07, or 1.1
percent, to $96.54 a barrel and was at $96.25 in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:29 p.m. London
time. The contract fell 68 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $95.47
yesterday, the lowest close since Aug. 15. Prices are 2.3
percent lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement was at $112.60 a barrel,
up 33 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark grade’s premium to WTI was at $16.38,
from $16.79 yesterday.  U.S. Inventories  U.S. crude inventories may fall for a fifth week, the
longest run of declines since July 2011, according to the median
of 11 analyst estimates before the Energy Department’s report.
The decrease would leave inventories at the lowest level since
March 23.  Gasoline supplies may have fallen  1.4 million barrels , and
distillate stockpiles, a category that includes diesel and
heating oil, probably rose 400,000 barrels, the survey showed.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
publish its supply report later today.  Tropical Storm Isaac’s winds held steady at 70 miles (113
kilometers) an hour, 4 mph below hurricane level, as it moved
northwest toward landfall late today or early tomorrow in
southern Louisiana, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said at 8
a.m. East Coast time.  Wind Speeds  About 78 percent of oil production and 48 percent of
natural gas output from the Gulf of Mexico has been shut in as
Isaac approaches, a Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement report showed yesterday.  Petroleos de Venezuela SA said that all of the fires at
 storage tanks  at its Amuay refinery in Falcon state have now
been extinguished, according to a message on its Twitter Inc.
account. There is no structural damage to the processing units
at the facility about 240 miles west of Caracas, which will be
restarted within two days of the flames being extinguished,
according to Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez .  Venezuela has 4 million barrels of inventories of gasoline
and other petroleum products and continues to produce 735,000
barrels of gasoline a day at plants, including nearby Cardon,
according to Ramirez.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will speak at the
Kansas City Fed’s annual symposium in Jackson Hole on Aug. 31,
where he may shed light on the likelihood of a third round of
asset purchases. The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of debt
since 2008 in two previous rounds of quantitative easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  