-- Oil Rises as Isaac Curbs Output, U.S. Supplies May Fall
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-08-28T20:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/oil-rises-as-isaac-curbs-output-u-s-supplies-projected.html
Oil rose for the first time in four
days in New York as Hurricane Isaac reduced offshore output in
the Gulf of Mexico and on speculation that U.S. supplies fell to
a five-month low.  Futures advanced 0.9 percent after the Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement reported that 93 percent of  crude
production  from the Gulf has been shut in as Isaac approaches.
U.S. crude stockpiles probably dropped  1.75 million barrels  last
week, according to a Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s Energy
Department report.  “It’s hard to sell off this market with a storm heading
for the Louisiana coast,” said Addison Armstrong, director of
market research at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.
“We’re also expecting tomorrow’s report to show a fairly large
inventory drop. These two factors will probably keep the market
higher today.”  Crude oil for October delivery rose 86 cents to settle at
$96.33 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices are
up 13 percent from a year ago.  Prices retreated from the settlement after the industry-
funded American Petroleum Institute reported oil inventories
rose 5.46 million barrels last week to 366.5 million. The
October contract was up 60 cents at $96.07 at 4:32 p.m. in
electronic trading.  Brent oil for October settlement increased 32 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $112.58 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
grade’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate oil traded in New
York narrowed to $16.25, the smallest gap in a month.  ‘Everything Possible’  Isaac’s center was 55 miles (85 kilometers) south-southeast
of the mouth of the Mississippi River, the National Hurricane
Center said in an advisory at 2 p.m. New York time. Isaac was
moving northwest at 10 miles per hour with top winds of 75 mph.  President  Barack Obama  said he’s ordered the federal
government to do “everything possible” to help those in the
path of Isaac. He called on Gulf Coast residents to be cautious.  “We’re dealing with a big storm,” Obama said in remarks
from the White House. “Now’s not the time to tempt fate. You
need to take this seriously.”  The president earlier declared an emergency for Louisiana,
authorizing agencies to coordinate relief efforts. He said the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has been in the Gulf region
for more than a week.  “We’ve moved to wait-and-see mode,” said Tim Evans, an
energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “We are
now waiting to see if there’s going to be anything unexpected
with Isaac, whether it is stronger or weaker than expected and
whether it moves on a different path than forecast.”  U.S. Inventories  U.S. crude oil stockpiles may fall for a fifth week, the
longest run of declines since July 2011, according to the median
of 12 analyst estimates before tomorrow’s report. The decrease
would leave supplies at the lowest level since March
23.Inventories surged to 387.3 million in the week ended Jun 15,
the highest level since July 1990.  “The fundamentals suggest that crude could fall a bit,”
said Sarah Emerson, managing director of Energy Security
Analysis Inc. in Wakefield, Massachusetts. “Prices climbed
above $90 as inventories dropped with the start of the third
quarter. It’s important to remember that supplies are still not
tight because they were at very high levels.”  Gasoline supplies may have dropped  1.45 million barrels ,
and inventories of distillate fuel, a category that includes
diesel and heating oil, probably rose 200,000 barrels, according
to the survey.  ‘A Liftoff’  “The crude oil and gasoline markets may get a liftoff
tomorrow if the numbers come in as expected,” Evans said.
“We’re expecting to see at least moderate declines in both
crude oil and gasoline supplies.”  Gasoline for September delivery fell 2.87 cents, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $3.1261 a gallon on the Nymex. Yesterday,
prices surged to $3.1548, the highest close since April 30, as
U.S. Gulf Coast refineries shut with the approach of Isaac and a
fire in Venezuela closed the Amuay refinery, the nation’s
largest. An Aug. 6 fire at  Chevron Corp.’s (CVX)  refinery in Richmond,
California, also reduced processing capacity.  Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez said firefighters
contained the last fire at Amuay, where a gas leak caused an
explosion Aug. 25. The plant, which can process 645,000 barrels
a day, forms part of the Paraguana complex 240 miles west of
Caracas.  Damage was limited to the storage tanks and Venezuela has
enough gasoline inventories to meet all commitments, Oil
Minister Rafael Ramirez said on television.  ‘Sustained’ Price  “We’ve had the fires at Amuay and Richmond refineries and
now the storm-related closures of refineries along the Gulf,”
Emerson said. “WTI at the higher end of the $80-to-$100 range
and Brent between $100 and $115 can be sustained for several
months.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 364,491
contracts as of 4:33 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 434,112
contracts yesterday, 20 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  