-- Oil Declines From One-Week High on Isaac Landfall, G-7 Statement
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-08-29T07:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-as-hurricane-isaac-disrupts-output.html
Oil fell from the highest closing
price in a week in  New York  after Hurricane Isaac made landfall
in the U.S. and industrialized nations expressed concern that
elevated prices may threaten the global economic recovery.  Futures slipped as much as 0.7 percent after Isaac struck
the coast of southeastern  Louisiana . Refinery shutdowns because
of the storm have curbed crude demand, according to Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. The Group of Seven nations called on oil-
producing countries to increase output and is monitoring the
economic risk posed by current prices, according to a joint
statement issued yesterday by the U.S. Treasury Department.  “Markets were already pricing in what was proving to be a
disruptive storm,” said Jeremy Friesen, a commodity strategist
at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “The market is focusing on
the comments from governments. The comments highlight that
policy makers are getting concerned about how high oil prices
are.”  Oil for October delivery declined as much as 66 cents to
$95.67 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $95.72 at 3:04 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday climbed 0.9 percent to $96.33, the highest
close since Aug. 22. Prices are 3.2 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for October settlement was at $112.16 a barrel,
down 0.4 percent, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark grade’s  premium  to West Texas
Intermediate was $16.44, from $16.25 yesterday.  Gulf Output  Oil in New York may extend its decline to as low as $94.55
a barrel, along the bottom of a short-term uptrend channel on
the daily chart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
channel started from the June 28 fall to $77.28, the 2012
intraday low. Buy orders tend to be clustered near technical-
support levels.  Companies halted 93 percent of oil production in the  Gulf
of Mexico  and 67 percent of natural-gas output as Isaac neared
the Louisiana coast, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental
Enforcement said. Six Louisiana refineries were shut, idling 6.7
percent of U.S. capacity, and three were running at reduced
rates, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  The storm was 70 miles (113 kilometers) south of  New
Orleans  with top winds of 80 miles per hour, making it a
Category 1 hurricane, the National Hurricane Center said in an
advisory at 1 a.m. New York time. It was “moving slowly along
the coast of southeast Louisiana and producing a dangerous  storm
surge ,” the center said.  “While production and imports might continue to be
impacted for a couple more days after the hurricane has passed,
crude demand has also been impacted,” Stefan Wieler, an analyst
at Goldman in New York, said in a note e-mailed today. “The
greater concern lies in the risk to refining capacity.”  G-7 Call  The G-7 said in its statement that it’s prepared to call
upon the  International Energy Agency , a 28-member group of oil-
consuming countries, “to take appropriate action to ensure that
the market is fully and timely supplied.” The IEA’s countries
made available 60 million barrels of crude and oil products in
June 2011 after Libyan output was disrupted by an armed uprising
against  Muammar Qaddafi .  Oil also fell after the  American Petroleum Institute  said
U.S. crude stockpiles gained  5.5 million barrels  last week. An
Energy Department report today may show inventories slid 1.75
million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline supplies decreased 2.4 million barrels, according
to the API. They are forecast to decline  1.45 million barrels ,
according to the median estimate of 12 analyst estimates in the
Bloomberg survey before the Energy Department report. Distillate
stockpiles, a category that includes heating oil and diesel,
rose 1.4 million barrels, compared with a projected 104,000
barrel drop in the survey.  Demand Peak  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  The Labor Day holiday on Sept. 3 marks the end of the U.S.
summer driving season, the peak gasoline demand period. Refiners
often idle processing units for maintenance in September and
October as consumption of the motor fuel drops and before
heating-oil use increases.  The rise in crude inventories is “a seasonal factor and
we’ll start to see these builds,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the
chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity
newsletter in Sydney.  Venezuela Fire  Gasoline fell as much as 0.3 percent, extending yesterday’s
decline, after  Venezuela  extinguished a fire at its biggest
refinery. State-owned Petroleos de Venezuela SA will wait at
least 24 hours before resuming the 645,000 barrel-a-day Amuay
refinery, Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  told reporters yesterday
in Falcon state near the plant. A gas explosion on Aug. 25 and
the subsequent four-day blaze shut the plant and killed 48
people.  Gasoline for September delivery was at $3.12 a gallon, down
0.61 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract
slid 0.9 percent yesterday after rising as high as $3.205 on
Aug. 27, the highest level since April 30, amid concern the
Venezuelan fire and Isaac would curb supplies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  