-- Olam Quarterly Profit Falls as Cotton, Wood Demand Wanes
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-08-28T11:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/olam-quarterly-profit-falls-as-cotton-wood-demand-wanes-1-.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the food
commodities supplier partly owned by Singapore’s Temasek
Holdings Pte., said fourth-quarter profit fell 14 percent on
lower earnings from its cotton and wood product businesses.  Net income  dropped to S$109.5 million ($87.4 million) in
the three months ended June 30 from S$127.4 million a year ago,
Singapore-based Olam said today in a statement. That beat the
S$90.9 million average of three analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue climbed 13 percent to S$5.1 billion.  Olam, the  third-worst performer  this year on Singapore’s
benchmark index, also reported a decline in full-year profit.
Net contribution from its industrial raw materials business, the
second-largest unit by revenue in 2011 that supplies cotton,
timber and rubber fell 48 percent to S$68.5 million in the
quarter from a year earlier, Olam said today.  “Our business continued to face macro-economic headwinds
stemming from the global economic uncertainties,” Olam said in
the statement. “Trading conditions, particularly in our
industrial raw materials segment, continued to remain with a
negative impact on our overall performance.”  The stock gained 0.3 percent to S$1.99 at the close in
 Singapore  today, before the earnings announcement. Olam is down
6.6 percent this year, compared with the 15 percent gain in the
benchmark Straits Times Index.  Volatile Prices  Full-year net income fell 14 percent to S$370.9 million.
The average of 19 analyst estimates was S$354 million, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The cotton business was affected by volatile prices and
lower volumes from both growers and customers, Olam said.  “While there continues to be some residual uncertainty in
the cotton markets, we believe the prospects for the cotton
platform should be more positive in the second half” of the
fiscal year 2013, it said.  The price of cotton has declined 17 percent this year on
ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Commodity prices  as measured by
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
declined 13 percent in the quarter.  Demand for wood products “continued to decline due to
rapid devaluation of the Indian rupee and slowing infrastructure
demand from  China ,” Olam said today in a separate statement.  Olam, one of the world’s top three suppliers of rice, cocoa,
and coffee, continues to make “substantial progress” toward
its goal of achieving $1 billion of annual profit after tax by
2016 through acquisitions and organic growth, Chief Executive
Officer Sunny Verghese said today in the statement.  Returns Pressure  “The front-loaded nature of our investment program and
some gestating investments could result in near term pressures
on returns,” he said.  The company in the quarter announced plans to form a
venture with Bloomer Chocolate Co. to boost cocoa production and
another with Lansing Trade Group LLC to expand into grains and
oilseeds in  Canada . In May, Olam also said it will invest $240
million in its first sugar mill in the state of  Minas Gerais ,
the second-largest sugarcane growing area in  Brazil .  Olam’s confectionery and beverage segment, which procures
cocoa and coffee, saw net contribution rise 43 percent in the
quarter from a year earlier. Its food staples and packaged foods
business, comprising rice, sugar, and grains trading posted a 35
percent gain in net contribution.  The division selling nuts, spices, and beans recorded a 22
percent gain in net contribution from a year earlier and a 71
percent gain in revenue, Olam said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  