-- Morgan Stanley Hedge-Fund Capital Raiser Said to Leave
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-08-29T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/morgan-stanley-hedge-fund-capital-raiser-barrett-said-to-depart.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s David Barrett, who
oversaw a unit that raised money for hedge funds and private
companies, is leaving after 22 years to look for a job outside
banking, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Barrett ran the New York-based firm’s private capital
markets business, where he reported to client-solutions head
Wylie Collins and equity capital markets co-heads John Moore and
Paul Donahue. Barrett is considering positions at several hedge
funds, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the information hasn’t been made public.  Since 2008, Barrett developed and led a new business at
Morgan Stanley raising money for hedge funds in exchange for
fees, the people said. Previously, the bank’s efforts to help
the funds raise capital were limited to investor introductions,
a free service provided as a courtesy, one of the people said.
Raj Dhanda oversees the business as Morgan Stanley’s head of
global capital markets.  Clients included London-based Brevan Howard Asset
Management LLP, SAC Capital Advisors LP in Stamford,
Connecticut, and Tiger Management LLC and KLS Diversified Asset
Management LP, both based in New York, the person said.  The private capital markets unit also catered to companies.
In July 2011, the unit assisted retailer  Michael Kors Holdings
Ltd. (KORS)  in selling $500 million of equity to investors in a private
sale. Morgan Stanley led the retailer’s initial public offering
in December, which raised $944 million, or 19 percent more than
planned.  Barrett joined Morgan Stanley in 1986 and worked there
through 2004, when he was recruited to Merrill Lynch & Co.,
according to Financial Industry Regulatory Authority records. He
returned to Morgan Stanley in March 2008 as head of hedge fund
strategic consulting, according to a press release at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  