-- Asian Stocks Fall on Japan Growth Downgrade, Fed Policy
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-08-28T08:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/most-asian-stocks-rise-before-u-s-data-federal-reserve.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index heading for a three-week low, after Japan
downgraded its assessment of the world’s third-biggest economy
and as investors await indications of policy direction from the
 Federal Reserve .  China Southern Airlines Co. fell 2.8 percent in  Hong Kong 
as Asia’s biggest carrier by passenger numbers reported first-
half profit tumbled.  Shikoku Electric Power Co. (9507)  sank 10 percent
in  Tokyo  after Credit Suisse Group AG rated the stock
underperform.  Aozora Bank Ltd. (8304)  surged 14 percent after the
Japanese lender unveiled a plan to repay a taxpayer bailout and
buy back common stock.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.5 percent to 119.17
as of 5:05 p.m. in Tokyo, heading for its lowest close since Aug.
6. About two shares fell for each that rose on the gauge. The
measure climbed 10 percent from a June low through yesterday on
bets the U.S., Europe and China will take action to support
economic expansion. Investors are waiting for hints of further
easing in Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s speech on
Aug. 31 at an annual economic symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  “There’s no fundamental basis in doing another
quantitative easing,” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head of
multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management (Asia) Ltd.,
which oversees about $8 billion. “The  U.S. economy  has pretty
good momentum.”  Spending by U.S. consumers is expected to have climbed in
July by the most in five months, easing concern the biggest part
of the economy is backsliding, economists said before a report
on Aug. 30. Revised second-quarter gross domestic product to be
released tomorrow by the Commerce Department may show the
world’s biggest economy grew faster than initially estimated.  Japanese Economy  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  lost 0.6 percent,
reversing earlier gains of as much as 0.6 percent. The
government lowered its assessment of the  nation’s economy,
cutting its view on personal consumption, home-building, exports,
imports and industrial production, according to a monthly report
released by the Cabinet Office in Tokyo today.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index  slipped 1.4 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi slid 0.1 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.4
percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.1 percent.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.9 percent on
speculation more state-owned companies will buyback shares after
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. announce such a plan yesterday.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1
percent today. The gauge fell 0.1 percent yesterday amid doubts
the Federal Reserve will announce further economic stimulus.  Bernanke Speech  Bernanke probably won’t use his speech this week to suggest
a third round of bond buying is at hand, according to economists
such as  Michael Feroli  at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  James
O’Sullivan  at High Frequency Economics.  China Southern Airlines retreated 2.8 percent to HK$3.50 as
first-half profit slumped 85 percent from a year earlier to 424
million yuan ($67 million). The result missed analysts estimates
as a deepening economic slowdown sapped  travel demand  and fuel
costs increased.  Of the 488 companies in the Asia-Pacific index that have
reported quarterly earnings since July 1, and for which
Bloomberg has estimates, more than half failed to meet
projections, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Singamas Container Holdings Ltd. slid 1.7 percent to
HK$1.70 as the world’s second-largest maker of sea-cargo boxes
reported a 63 percent drop in first-half profit to $38.2 million.  Newcrest Mining  Utilities posted the biggest decline among the  10 industry
groups  in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index. (MXAP)  Shikoku Electric slumped
10 percent to 1,001 yen. Kyushu Electric Power Co. declined 9.3
percent to 627 yen. Credit Suisse rated both utilities
underperform in new coverage of the shares.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s largest gold producer,
lost 1.9 percent to A$26.70 in Sydney after saying production at
its Lihir mine in Papua New Guinea was suspended amid a dispute
with landowners.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 7.1 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday. Stocks on Asia’s
benchmark index were  valued  at 12.5 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.7 for the S&P 500 and 11.7 for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Among stocks that rose, Aozora Bank surged 14 percent to
238 yen, the most since December 2009, after the lender said it
plans to spend 227.6 billion yen ($2.9 billion) to repay a
taxpayer bailout over 10 years and buy back common stock.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the country’s biggest
refiner, jumped 5.4 percent to 6.23  yuan  in  Shanghai , amid
speculation more state-owned companies may announce share
buyback plans after Baoshan Iron & Steel said it will spend as
much as 5 billion yuan ($790 million) purchasing its own shares.
Baoshan advanced 10 percent to 4.48 yuan.  “More companies may follow Baoshan to buy back their
shares as stock prices are so low,” said Wang Weijun, a
strategist at Zheshang Securities Co. in Shanghai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  