-- Movado Surges After Raising Profit Forecast
-- B y   K e v i n   O r l a n d   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-08-28T20:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/movado-surges-after-raising-profit-forecast.html
Movado Group Inc. (MOV)  surged the most in
more than a year and a half after raising its forecast for
profit this fiscal year as sales of its branded watches gained.  The shares  climbed  17 percent to $35.36 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest gain since December 2010. Paramus, New
Jersey-based Movado has advanced 95 percent this year.  Movado is benefiting from increased demand for its namesake
branded watches as well as its licensed watch brands, said Mike Richardson, an analyst with Sidoti & Co. in New York.  Fossil
Inc. (FOSL) , owner of Skagen watches, surged earlier this month after
it forecast profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  “Movado Bold, Sport Chronograph and Series 800 have been
particularly strong,” Richardson, who recommends buying the
shares, wrote in an e-mail. “On the licensed side Coach
Boyfriend, Classic Signature, Hugo Boss Aviator, Tommy Hilfiger
Windsurf and Lacoste Advantage and GOA collections have been
strong.”  After the shares’ jump today, Movado’s valuation remained
attractive given its growth prospects, solid balance sheet and
controlled costs, Richardson wrote in a note to clients.  Profit this fiscal year will be about $1.40 a share, up
from a previous forecast of $1.15, the company said today in a
statement. The average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was $1.24.  Second-quarter  sales  4.2 percent to $118 million, the
company said. Movado’s gross margin, the portion of sales left
after the cost of goods sold, widened to 55.7 percent from 53.8
percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Orland in Chicago at 
 korland@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  