-- How Ponzi Schemer Sam Israel Fell for Conspiracy Scam: Review
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/how-ponzi-schemer-sam-israel-fell-for-conspiracy-scam-review.html
Lying came easy to Sam Israel, the
Connecticut hedge-fund manager who faked suicide in 2008 to
escape a 20-year prison sentence for running a $450 million
 Ponzi scheme .  Within two years of starting the Bayou hedge fund in 1996,
Israel, trader Jimmy Marquez and chief financial officer  Dan Marino  began cooking the books to hide a 14 percent loss.  Confessing would have driven investors to withdraw their
money, depriving the trio of the chance to show the world that
the fund’s Forward Propagation strategy -- a crazy-quilt of
technical-sounding palaver and marketing -- worked. Though of
course it didn’t.  In “ Octopus: Sam Israel, the Secret Market and Wall
Street’s Wildest Con ,” Guy Lawson tells two tales. One is a
diligently researched, lively account of ambition gone bad. The
other, in the book’s second half, is a story of the con artist
himself getting scammed in what reads like an episode of “The
Twilight Zone.”  Israel came from a New Orleans family that owned a
commodities trading powerhouse, and wanted to prove that he
could make his own financial luck. He worked summers at Frederic
J. Graber & Co., a  New York  brokerage, then dropped out of
 Tulane University  to pursue a  Wall Street  education.  Late 1970s  The first half of Lawson’s book, which is peppered with
extensive interviews with Israel and others, turns a lens on the
fast and loose ways of Wall Street starting in the late 1970s.  The financial world, we read in colorful, self-justifying
anecdotes from Israel, is a scam. Schemers abound, brokers
front-run, or trade ahead of, their clients’ block orders and
lying is the way to get by and get ahead.  Against that backdrop, treachery is a matter of degree.
Israel is wily, power-hungry, purposeful. He creates an alter
ego called Captain Proton for touring Manhattan nightclubs.
Boozing, snorting cocaine and womanizing are part of the role,
before and after  Israel ’s marriage. Back surgeries, psychiatric
problems and an addiction to painkillers follow.  “I was the swami,” Israel told Lawson in one of many
riveting reflections on his wayward role as a financial wizard.
“I made the money. I made something out of nothing. I could
turn perception into reality.” This from the same man who tells
the author he wanted to please people, who knew he was out of
control, who wanted to run a “clean” fund.  Enter Nichols  Israel believed his own shtick. He believed he could find a
way to crawl out of the hole he’d dug for Bayou. Sure enough,
salvation seemed to appear in the form of Robert Booth Nichols,
a self-proclaimed ex-CIA agent with alleged ties to the Mafia,
Hollywood,  Ferdinand Marcos , the Iran-Contra affair. He also
professed to know the real story of what happened to JFK in
 Dallas  in 1963.  Nichols tells Israel that a cabal of insiders, nicknamed
the Octopus, controls the global purse strings. No big surprise,
but this includes a giant secret  bond market  that the U.S.
Federal Reserve doesn’t seem to know about.  Israel, whose deceit and fake returns had led to more asset
managers parking their money in Bayou after the implosion of the
dot-com bubble, signs on for what turns into Sammy’s Great
Adventure as he struggles to make a quick couple hundred million
dollars using Nichols’s supposed connections.  The globe-trotting, cloak-and-dagger fantasies and
conspiracy theories that overwhelm the size of Israel’s own scam
would make “Octopus” an excellent gift for a budding
regulatory compliance officer or someone charged with vetting
fund managers to make sure their wares are suitable for pension-
fund money. Or a shrink, of course.  The basic lesson: Self-delusion is loyal servant to an ego
with something to prove and a penchant for the easy way out.  “Octopus” is published by Crown (352 pages, $26). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (Nina Mehta writes for  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 