-- Patriot Coal Creditors Want Bankruptcy to Stay in N.Y.
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-08-28T18:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/patriot-coal-creditors-want-bankruptcy-to-stay-in-n-y-.html
Patriot (PCXCQ)  Coal Corp. and its creditors
and bankruptcy lenders oppose transferring the case to  West
Virginia  from  New York , pitting themselves against unions,
insurers and the U.S. government.  The United Mine Workers union and several insurers who have
argued for the move to Charleston, West Virginia, haven’t proven
it would be more convenient for all creditors or lead to a more
economical Chapter 11 case, the creditors said in papers filed
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  “The UMWA asserts that Charleston is more convenient for
the workers and retirees it represents -- a goal that is
praiseworthy, but should not control the venue analysis,” the
creditors said.  Patriot, one of the largest coal producers in the U.S.,
filed for bankruptcy in July. It was asked first by its union to
move the case. The U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice
Department  that oversees bankruptcies, joined in the motion,
saying the St. Louis-based company created two new units just
before its bankruptcy with what appeared to be the sole purpose
of avoiding other bankruptcy courts.  Patriot said New York is the most cost-effective and
convenient place for its bankruptcy. Not one of its top five
secured creditors is located in West Virginia and the company’s
advisers and other professionals have offices in New York,
according to court papers filed yesterday.  ‘Exceedingly Expensive’  “Moreover, flights to and from Charleston, West Virginia,
are often exceedingly expensive,” the company said, citing
prices of more than $2,200 for a refundable, round-trip ticket.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp ., which helped
arrange $802 million in loans to Patriot after its bankruptcy,
also said yesterday that they oppose a venue transfer, citing
potential increases in travel costs and professional fees.  The company’s bankruptcy counsel, Davis Polk & Wardwell;
its conflicts counsel, Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle LLP;
its investment banker,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ; and its financial
adviser, AP Services LLC, all have offices in New York but not
West Virginia, the company said.  Only 10 of the company’s unsecured creditors, holding
$9.6 million of the more than $507 million in claims, are based
in West Virginia, according to court papers.  Patriot’s facilities, employees, retirees and creditors are
largely located in West Virginia, and conducting its bankruptcy
in New York makes it more difficult for the company’s 2,000
active employees and more than 10,000 retirees to participate in
the case, according to the United Mine Workers. West Virginia
has a greater economic interest in the case’s outcome, as most
creditors are there, the union has said.  Kentucky’s Interest  The Department of Natural Resources in  Kentucky  joined the
mine workers’ motion, citing the company’s mining activities in
Kentucky. West Virginia has said it has an interest in whether
the company sells or abandons its property in that state.  A hearing on the arguments is scheduled for Sept. 11.  Patriot has 12 active mining complexes in Appalachia and
the Illinois Basin and controls an estimated 1.9 billion tons of
coal reserves, according to court papers. It sells thermal coal
to electricity generators and metallurgical coal to steel and
coke producers.  In the Chapter 11 filing July 9, Patriot listed assets of
$3.57 billion and debt of $3.07 billion as of May 31.  The case is In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-bk-12900,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  