-- TPC Investor Sandell Says $40-a-Share Buyout Is `Outrage'
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-08-28T15:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/tpc-investor-sandell-says-40-a-share-buyout-is-outrage-.html
Sandell Asset Management Corp., the
third-largest shareholder of  TPC Group Inc. (TPCG) , said the chemical
maker’s agreement to sell itself to private-equity firms for
$628 million “grossly undervalues” the company.  First Reserve Corp. and SK Capital Partners’ agreement,
announced yesterday, to buy the company for $40 a share is an
“outrage,” Thomas E. Sandell, chief executive officer of New
York-based Sandell, wrote in a letter to TPC’s board today. The
price is “well below” Houston-based TPC’s 52-week high and
includes little premium for a company that may trade for $55 to
$57 a share in 12 months, he wrote.  “This appears to us to be a classic case where management,
fully aware of the company’s significant inherent value and of
the impending catalysts which will unlock it, deliberately fail
to communicate that value to the market and instead attempt to
steal the company at a grossly suboptimal price,” Sandell
wrote.  TPC, formerly known as Texas Petrochemicals Inc., is the
largest producer of butadiene, used to make synthetic rubber.
Production of the chemical is dropping as other companies switch
from oil-based feedstocks to using cheaper natural gas, which
yields less butadiene.  TPC’s earnings should improve as demand for butadiene
increases and it emerges from a year in which volumes were
reduced because of work on processing plants, Sandell wrote.  Sara Cronin, a spokeswoman for TPC, didn’t immediately
respond to a voicemail seeking comment.  TPC  rose  1.1 percent to $40.62 at 11:24 a.m. in  New York .
The shares have gained 74 percent this year.  Shareholder Premium  The agreement with First Reserve and SK Capital gives
shareholders a 1 percent premium over TPC’s Aug. 24 closing
price, the last trading day before the transaction was
announced, and a 20 percent premium to its price on July 24, the
day before  Bloomberg News  reported the company may go private.  The transaction requires approval of TPC shareholders and
antitrust regulators. Stockholders representing 22 percent of
shares support the deal, TPC said yesterday.  Sandell plans to vote against the transaction and urged
other holders to do the same. Sandell said it owns 6 percent of
TPC. QVT Financial LP and Ramius Capital Group LLC are the
 largest shareholders , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  TPC said yesterday that directors formed a special
committee in late 2011 to review strategic and financial
alternatives. Sandell said he told TPC CEO Michael McDonnell in
an Aug. 15 phone call that investors are entitled to
transparency if the company was pursuing a sale, and a formal
auction process would maximize value.  The agreement was a “sweetheart” buyout “with a favored
buyer in an impaired sale process at the bottom of the cycle,”
Sandell wrote. “We intend to hold you responsible for this
material breach of your fiduciary duty in approving this
transaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  