-- PepsiCo Awarded Prize for Effort to Cut Water Consumption
-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2012-08-28T17:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/pepsico-awarded-2012-prize-for-efforts-to-cut-water-consumption.html
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  won an honorary
industry award at the World Water Week in  Stockholm  for efforts
by the biggest snack-food maker to conserve billions of gallons
of water in its global manufacturing operations.  “Reducing our water usage drives cost reductions and
reduces our overall environmental footprint,” said  Indra Nooyi ,
chairman and chief executive officer of PepsiCo. “We’re
innovating to make the most of every drop of water used.”  The food and beverage company saved almost 16 billion
liters of water last year compared with 2006 usage, showing
“that responsible water use makes good business sense,” Joppe
Cramwinckel, award committee member and head of water projects
at the World Business Council for  Sustainable Development , said
today in a statement.  PepsiCo’s initiatives improved its water efficiency by at
least 20 percent per unit of production since 2006, reaching a
water goal four years ahead of schedule, the Purchase, New York-
based company said in a statement.  Water-saving equipment and technologies as well as more
recycling and re-use in conjunction with a water management
system and new farm irrigation methods helped, PepsiCo said, as
did optimizing the delivery of fertilizer and water to crops at
the most efficient time.  Agriculture accounts for about 70 percent of global water
use and industry 20 percent, according to United Nations data,
with  India , China and the U.S. the three largest water users by
volume.  The water summit, organized by the Stockholm International
Water Institute or SIWI, is an annual event that started in
1991. This week, industry executives and scientists from at
least 100 countries are discussing how to curb  food waste  and
use water more efficiently in agriculture and at home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  