-- PepsiCo, Energy-Drink Makers Said to Be Probed by N.Y. AG
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-08-28T18:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/pepsico-energy-drink-makers-said-to-be-probed-by-n-y-ag.html
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and two other energy-
drink makers are being investigated by the  New York  attorney
general over their marketing practices, according to a person
familiar with the probe.  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman in July subpoenaed
PepsiCo, maker of the Amp energy drink, as well as  Monster
Beverage Corp. (MNST)  and Living Essentials LLC, which makes 5-Hour
Energy, said the person, who declined to be named because the
person wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about the probe.  Schneiderman’s office is investigating the companies’
marketing practices and ingredient disclosures, including
whether energy drinks are improperly marketed as dietary
supplements, the person said. The companies also don’t disclose
the true amount of caffeine in the drinks, the person said.  The probe is in its early stages and could broaden, the
person said.  Michelle Duffy, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman, declined to
comment. The probe was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  Monster, the largest U.S. energy-drink maker by volume
sales, said in a regulatory filing this month that an
unspecified attorney general was investigating the company’s
flagship drink and ingredients.  Roger Pondel, a spokesman for Corona, California-based
Monster, declined to comment. Jeff Dahncke, a spokesman for
Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo, also declined to comment.  Elaine Lutz, a spokeswoman for 5-hour Energy, said the
company had no additional comment beyond an earlier bond
offering filing.  “We will appropriately disclose any new, material
information,” Lutz said today in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  