-- Peru’s Rating Outlook Raised by S&P as Mining Boosts Growth
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-08-28T22:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/peru-s-rating-outlook-raised-by-s-p-as-mining-boosts-growth-1-.html
The outlook on  Peru ’s debt rating
was raised to positive from stable by  Standard & Poor’s  as
investment in mining, energy and infrastructure bolsters the
Andean nation’s prospects for economic and export growth.  Mining investment will sustain expansion even as community
protests slow some projects, according to the ratings company,
which a year ago raised the country’s foreign debt one step to
BBB, the second-lowest investment grade.  Latin America ’s fastest-growing economy expanded 6.1
percent in the first half of this year as the government
accelerated investment in public works to offset a drop in metal
exports. Companies including Xstrata Plc and Anglo American Plc
have said they’re planning $50 billion of mining investment in
Peru during the next decade.  Peru’s rating could be raised “if the majority of the
large announced investments are completed, underpinning growth
prospects and higher export volumes, which would mitigate a
possible fall in metals prices,” Standard & Poor’s said.  Net debt will fall to 3 percent of gross domestic product
by the end of 2015 from 8 percent this year, even as President
Ollanta Humala increases  government spending  on social programs,
the ratings company said. Humala pledged July 28 to award $10
billion in infrastructure contracts next year.  Economic Expansion  Peru’s $176 billion economy will expand 5.5 percent this
year, the fastest in the region, according to International
Monetary Fund forecasts. Standard & Poor’s projects 5.5 percent
growth for Peru over the next three years.  The country’s credit rating was raised by Moody’s Investors
Service one level to Baa2 on Aug. 16.  Fitch Ratings  also ranks
the country the second-lowest investment grade.  The yield on Peru’s March 2037 dollar bonds fell to a
record low of 3.60 percent Aug. 3 after economic activity rose
to a 10-month high. The yield fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.83 percent in trading today. The price
rose 0.7 cent to 142.95 cents per dollar.  The sol was unchanged at 2.611 per  U.S. dollar , according
to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit. The currency earlier touched
2.61, the strongest level since 1997,  data  from Peru’s financial
regulator show.  “The outlook for Peru remains extremely strong, with a
great deal of policy flexibility, and that provides comfort to
investors in this still risky global backdrop,” Aryam Vazquez,
a New York-based economist at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said in a phone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  