-- Picasso, Bronze Star in Europe Art Shows: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-08-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/picasso-bronze-star-in-europe-art-shows-martin-gayford.html
It is common for an exhibition to be
devoted to an artist, style or period.  It’s unusual to give top billing to a medium.  “Bronze” at London’s  Royal Academy  (Sept. 15 to Dec. 9)
boldly does just that. It consists of works made in many diverse
areas of the world from the 4th millennium B.C. to today.  The only common factor is that all the exhibits will be
made out of what art experts these days like to call “copper
alloy.”  That really would be a turnoff as a title for a
blockbuster. Even titled “Bronze,” the concept behind this show
may bemuse the public. It’s still my choice for the sleeper of
the season.  Crammed with masterpieces -- by Ghiberti, Donatello,
Matisse and Picasso, to pick a few famous names from a long list
-- and coming from Java, ancient Etruria, and prehistoric Demark
among other places, this promises to be spectacular, one of the
highlights of the  London  fall season. The show will contain
lions, horses, nudes and a Louise Bourgeois spider.  On the other hand, “Pre-Raphaelites: Victorian Avant-garde”
at  Tate Britain  (Sept. 12 to Jan. 13) is quite certain to draw
the British public in throngs. I must confess that personally
I’m not looking forward to it.  Inevitably, all critics have their betes noires, and the
Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood is mine. In 19th-century British art,
Turner and Constable strike me as giants, the PRB a sad let-
down. But I shall clear my mind of prejudice and prepare to be
converted by the Victorian beauties.  Cotman’s Normandy  Though not quite in the Turner/Constable league, the
watercolorist John Sell Cotman was another outstanding English
artist of the early 19th century, so “Cotman in Normandy” at the
 Dulwich  Picture Gallery (Oct. 10 to Jan. 13) should be a
pleasure.  The National Gallery’s “Seduced by Art: Photography Past
and Present” (Oct. 31 to Jan. 20) looks at the close, not to say
incestuous, relationship between the camera and painting from
the 19th century to the present.  Photographs by celebrated exponents of the lens from Julia
Margaret Cameron to Martin Parr will be shown side by side with
paintings from the National Gallery’s collection. The danger is
that  oil paintings  and photographs tend to fight each other
visually -- and paint, being as  Damien Hirst  put it more
“yummy,” always wins that battle.  Bigger Splash  A famous picture by  David Hockney , who featured so
prominently at the Royal Academy earlier in the year, gives the
title to a late autumn exhibition at Tate Modern, “A Bigger
Splash: Painting after Performance” (Nov. 14 to April 1).  This looks at painting as an act, from Jackson Pollock
dancing and dripping over his canvases onwards. It’s an
intriguing premise for an exhibition, but could -- like much
performance art -- look a real mess.  At the  Victoria & Albert Museum , the big show of the autumn
is “Hollywood Costume” (Oct. 20 to Jan. 27), which will bring
together the schmutter worn by familiar movie characters from
Scarlett O’Hara to Indiana Jones.  This too carries a risk: Costumes without people in them
are, naturally, hard to bring to life. Can they sustain interest
for an entire, blockbuster-sized exhibition? We shall see.  The London exhibitions in the second half of this year are
a quirky assortment, most institutions having put their best
foot forward in the run-up to the Olympics. They want to carry
on with blockbusters after the Games. Still, the major Old
Master show of the season will be in Paris.  Louvre’s Raphael  “Late Raphael” (Oct. 11 - Jan. 14) is moving on to the
 Louvre  from the Prado,  Madrid  (where it continues until Sept.
16). This carries on from the point where the exhibition of
Raphael’s early work at the National Gallery, London, in 2004-5
stopped.  That exhibition took the master’s career up to 1512. This
continues the story until his early death in 1520. Raphael is
not quite so much to contemporary taste as Leonardo (subject of
sensationally popular shows in London and Paris earlier in the
year). Still, if you like Renaissance art, and haven’t caught it
in Madrid, this is well worth crossing the Channel to see.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on rock music,  Richard
Vines  on U.K. restaurants,  Ryan Sutton  on U.S. restaurants and
 Hephzibah Anderson  on fiction.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 