-- Portman Says Debates Will Help Romney With Voters (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-08-28T16:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/portman-says-debates-will-help-romney-with-voters-transcript-.html
Ohio Senator Rob Portman said at a
Bloomberg-Washington Post breakfast at the Republican National
Convention in Tampa, Florida, that the U.S. presidential debates
will help Republican  Mitt Romney  close a likability gap with
President Barack Obama.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT, BLOOMBERG NEWS: Well, first of all, we’re
delighted to have Senator Portman, but it got even better,
because he also brought his North Carolina connection, namely
his wife, from Winston-Salem, North Carolina, Jane Portman.
Thank you so much for coming.  JANE PORTMAN: Thanks for including me.  HUNT: That’s right. Well, I went to Wake Forest University,
where - and Karen Tumulty’s son -  QUESTION: I’m currently paying tuition there.  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: So we have a - and, Dan Balz, why don’t you start
off? And let me just say one thing. Everybody can jump in and
ask questions. We did - we had a session yesterday, and there
was a little bit of a transcription problem. So if you ask a
question, please speak, you know, as loudly and clearly as you
can. Dan and the senator and I are miked, so it ought to be a
little bit easier.  QUESTION: But we want everybody around the table -  HUNT: Absolutely.  QUESTION: - to do questioning. So I’ll kick it off.
Senator, thanks for being here. There’s a lot to do for Governor
Romney at this convention, and one of the things is - he has an
image problem. He’s got a less favorable image than almost any
nominee coming into a convention. Two questions on that. What
can he do here to fix it? And, secondly, can he win this
election if he doesn’t fix it?  ROB PORTMAN : I was going to ask you the second one.  (LAUGHTER)  Well, first of all, it’s good to be at the Dan and Al Show.
This is always interesting to see Bloomberg and Washington Post
come together. My alma mater, Dartmouth College, is where they
found each other and formed a partnership at the debate. And it
seems to be working well for both sides, so thank you for having
me.  UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: nine months later.  PORTMAN: Here it is. The gestation period was about nine
months.  UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Exactly.  PORTMAN: So two things. One, I have been reading Dan’s
articles, I will tell you, about likeability, and it’s true that
the president is more likeable at this stage. It’s also true
that Mitt Romney has sustained an unbelievable barrage of
negative ads, including in my home state of Ohio, where we’ve
been outspent campaign to campaign about 3 to 1. Now, when you
include the super PACs, it’s closer to 2 to 1. But the point is
that the Obama campaign I think is taking a cue maybe from the
1996 Dole effort.  But, look, these guys went through a tough Republican
primary. Let’s try to take him down before we even get into the
convention season and the general election. And they made an
earnest effort. I mean, they spent more money in Ohio than any
state in the country, so maybe I’m more sensitive to it than
some, more in Ohio than in Florida, by the way, or Virginia, or
anywhere else, and relentlessly negative, and I think a lot of
it misleading, some of it downright wrong and inaccurate.  And what they did is they - they did drive Mitt Romney’s
favorable ratings down, but they didn’t really change the
dynamics of the race in terms of the head to head. You saw the
polls yesterday probably from Ohio, the Dispatch poll, which is
considered reputable, although an interesting methodology, you
know, so it’s a mail-in poll, but it’s 45-45. And among I think
1,700 participants, there was a two-vote difference. I mean,
that can’t happen. That’s like Florida in 2000.  So they haven’t had the effect that they’d hoped to have,
which would have been to really make Governor Romney ineligible
even before the general election began and like they did to  Bob
Dole  back in 1996, never let him get up off the mat. So it
hasn’t worked in terms of the head-to-head and in terms of the
issues.  And that’s because the other part of the polling that you
talked about, Dan, clearly shows that the economy and jobs are
the top issue and that voters - significantly independent
voters, but voters in general and registered voters, as well as,
you know, all Americans as surveyed, think that Mitt Romney is
better equipped to handle that issue.  They also think, by the way, that he’s better equipped to
handle the issue of the deficit, which is probably the second
most important issue that people are concerned about. So it’s an
interesting situation where in terms of the issue matrix, I
think, you know, Governor Romney has the advantage. Clearly, I’d
rather be a challenger than an incumbent in this year.  QUESTION: Well, do you come to the conclusion, then, that
this likeability issue is simply not a factor that people give
attention to?  PORTMAN: No, I think it’s a factor. I think it’s a factor,
but I think it’s a much easier factor to address than the
fundamentals of the race, which is jobs and the economy, and the
record deficits and debts that are related to the economy.  And the answer to your question about, you know, can it be
addressed? Absolutely, it can. I mean, and it will start here.
Most Americans have not plugged into the campaign season yet,
because they have more important things to do, like worrying
about their families, getting their kids to school, and so on.
Now it’s September, and people are going to be more focused. And
I think Mitt Romney will give a terrific speech. It doesn’t have
to be, by the way, soaring rhetoric. It has to be about him, and
it will be.  And for the first time, many Americans will see Mitt Romney
talking about himself and seeing a lot of other people talking
about him, including me. I’m speaking on Wednesday night, and
I’m going to talk a little about him. And they will learn for
the first time about his incredible background of success in
business, at the Olympics, as a governor, as a family person,
and I think this will be the start of not reintroducing, but
introducing the real Mitt Romney to folks who have only seen at
this point an amazing array of negative campaign ads.  QUESTION: Let me ask you one question -  PORTMAN: So I think it - I think it - I think it starts
here, Dan. And then I think over time, you know, particularly
because of the way that fundraising works in this crazy system,
the president, President Obama, has had a lot more money to
spend (inaudible) spend it primarily in the swing states. The
day after this convention, the Republican Party and Mitt Romney
will have the ability to spend at least as much and maybe even a
little more than the Democrats have spent. So instead of being
outspent 3 to 1, campaign to campaign - and, by the way, the
campaign message is the most effective message.  I’m a believer in that, partly because of my own race. We
had a little bit of help from some of the outside groups, but
the message, frankly, wasn’t that helpful, because, you know,
you can’t coordinate or you’re not supposed to. On the Democrat
side, it seems like they do sometimes, because the message
seemed awfully coordinated, but let’s assume nobody coordinates.
It’s much better to have it be your own campaign.  And he’ll be able to do that finally when he can use the
dollars that he has raised over the last few months, which have
been primarily general election dollars that cannot be spent
until the day after the convention. So we’ll be able to go on
the air in Ohio in ways we haven’t been able to at this point
from the campaign to get the message out in the most effective
way. And I hope some of those ads will be positive ads about who
Mitt Romney is.  QUESTION: OK. Why don’t we open it up to -  HUNT: (OFF-MIKE) turn to Ohio (OFF-MIKE) economy’s doing
pretty well, a lower  unemployment rate  than the national
average. The automobile industry is certainly doing better than
it was doing a couple years ago, so the economy will be the
message. Will that be the only message out there or are there
other issues you think also that will be determinative in Ohio?  PORTMAN: Al, there are other messages, but I would disagree
with you that the economy’s doing pretty well in Ohio.  HUNT: I just said comparatively.  PORTMAN: Well, yeah. I - you know, again, not to go back to
the polling that Dan wrote about recently, but the polling’s
unbelievable. I mean, it’s - 8 out of 10 Americans do not think
the economy’s doing well. They think it’s going in the wrong
direction. I mean, I - I don’t think any incumbent president’s
ever been re-elected with these kinds of concerns out there.  And Ohio is not different than the country. In fact, we’ve
looked at some of the wrong track numbers in Ohio. You know, the
question is, is the country going in the right direction or the
wrong track? And in Ohio, it’s just as bad as the national. In
fact, in most cases, it’s a little worse. And the reason is,
although we have 7.2 percent unemployment, one, that’s
relatively high, two, that’s really more like 10 percent. That’s
what it feels like, because when you look at the number of
people who are working, the labor participation rate on the day
that President Obama was sworn in compared to today,
unemployment would actually be about 10 percent in Ohio.  In other words, a lot of folks have just stopped looking
for work, and that’s not reflected in the official numbers, but
it’s certainly reflected in the way people feel about the
economy and the way their neighbors feel about it and what
they’re hearing and seeing when their kids get out of school and
can’t find a job. So people don’t feel like things are going
well. And -  HUNT: How did the automobile issue cut? Does it cut in
Ohio?  PORTMAN: Yeah, I think it does. I think it’s great news.
The auto industry is starting to come back. What the Kasich
administration will tell you is that it’s not a lot of jobs, you
know, relative to the number of jobs that we need in Ohio to
start really making progress, but it’s great news. And, you
know, it’s centered more in some areas of Ohio, so northwest
Ohio (inaudible) Ohio, in terms of G.M. Ford’s got (inaudible)
in Ohio.  But it’s not - it’s not the only reason we’re getting some
jobs back in Ohio. It’s because  John Kasich  did balance the
budget. In other words, he had an $8 billion deficit that he
closed. And he did it after running a hard-fought campaign and
winning by, you know, a point and a half or two points, the way
he said he would, which was without raising taxes, as opposed to
the other side that said they were going to raise taxes. In
fact, he cut some taxes on the (inaudible) estate side, so the
death tax was cut, making Ohio more friendly for investors to
stay there and not move to Florida.  UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: (OFF-MIKE)  PORTMAN: Yeah. And (inaudible) and that has helped the Ohio
economy, because it’s given more certainty that, hey, we’re
going to solve these problems by downsizing government and
making it more responsive and a reform effort on regulations,
much of which has to go on in Washington for us to turn things
around.  So I love talking about the Ohio experience. And some of
the national reporters that come to Ohio say, gosh, how can you
win Ohio, because the unemployment number is below the national
average? Well, one, it’s still way too high. And that’s what
people feel. That’s what I feel. Second is, Ohio is what we
ought to be using as a model, as is the case where there are a
lot of Republican governors around the country doing the same
thing. I think Wisconsin is another example, where they’re
actually balancing budgets, which Washington can’t seem to do,
and doing it by downsizing government and right-sizing
government, making government more efficient, and then providing
targeted tax relief that helps to grow the economy and retain
and attract jobs.  So it’s - it’s a model to me. What John Kasich will tell
you as our governor is, he’s hit a glass ceiling. He can’t do
much more because of the headwinds from Washington. He can’t
address federal tax policy, federal regulatory policy, federal
energy policy, federal trade policy, all those things that are
affecting Ohio. So he wants a partner in Washington who can do
that.  QUESTION: Let’s throw it open.  QUESTION: Senator, can I just go back on the likeability
question? A number of people I’ve talked to have made the same
point that you did, though definitely not as eloquently -  PORTMAN: Thank you, Ruth.  QUESTION: - about people who - you’re welcome. He knows I’m
setting you up for a nasty question.  Well, you’ve been there before. The argument is, well,
people aren’t really paying attention, but the polls suggest
that people have made up their minds and you’re arguing for over
a very narrow slice of the electorate. So, first of all, how
does - how do you put those two arguments together?  And, second of all, I’m wondering if you think - since you
said that likeability does matter - whether that (OFF-MIKE)
undecided slice of the electorate, if that’s what we’re arguing
over (OFF-MIKE) particularly susceptible to issues of
likeability as opposed to issues of more substance in making
their decisions?  PORTMAN: Two things. One, I disagree with your premise,
which is the premise, by the way, that everybody at this table
probably agrees with and I disagree with. I don’t think it’s a
small slice of the electorate. And I say this in part because
of, you know, some polling I’ve seen that shows, yes, I’m for
Obama or I’m for Romney, but I’m still looking, and particularly
people who are saying that, yeah, they’re going to vote for
Barack Obama again, but they’re really unhappy.  And those are the kind of voters we saw in 1980, who at the
end of the day said, you know, when  Ronald Reagan  was down,
what, probably 7 points at this point, and all along it looked
like he was, you know, not going to be able to overcome the
likeability issue and whether he was acceptable. At the end of
the day, a lot of those voters who were unhappy said, you know
what, we need a change, we need a fresh start. I’m going to take
a chance on this guy.  So I think that’s one reason. The second is, anecdotally,
traveling the state and talking to people, there are a lot of
folks who are telling me, I just haven’t decided yet, you know?
Yeah, I may be leaning one way or the other, and they are
receptive, and particularly with these unbelievable numbers on
the wrong track I talked about earlier. They’re open to
arguments about how to make their lives better, their families’
lives better, kitchen-table issues. So I don’t think it’s that
small slice.  And, second, I do think likeability is important. I do. But
I think people will have learned between 2008 and now that
liking somebody or celebrity status or, wow, he’s cool doesn’t
fix the economy. And I think our argument this year is the far
easier argument to make, which is that he didn’t fix it, we
will.  And I think that’s the central issue, you know? It’s about,
you know, whether we can get America back on track in a very
fundamental way, and that is, you know, to provide the kind of
prosperity that people want to be able to pass along to their
kids and their grandkids. You know, take-home pay is down about
$4,300 bucks on average in the last three-and-a-half years. You
know, “Are you better off than you were four years ago?” will
be a refrain I’d imagine you’ll hear some at this convention.  And, you know, whether it’s health care costs up $2,500
bucks on average per family, rather than $2,500 down, which is
what he promised, when the president pushed through his health-
care law, whether it’s the deficit that he promised to cut in
half, and we just learned a week-and-a-half ago it’ll be another
trillion dollars this year, the fourth year of a trillion
dollars, never even had one before, or whether it’s the economy.
We would be at 5.6 percent unemployment today if what the
president had promised with the stimulus package had happened.
It’s over 50 percent higher.  So I think those people in that sliver care more about
those issues than they do about likeability. I think likeability
is important. I said that to Dan. But it’s almost an
acceptability standard, rather than having to, you know, again,
do what I think a lot of people did in 2008, which is, you know,
sort of swoon over this person that made a lot of promises and
was, you know, able to articulate a vision that seemed very
compelling.  And, by the way, these same voters care a lot about the
notion that we’re going to work together to solve problems. And
when Barack Obama addressed his convention four years ago, you
know, he did this. We’re going to bring people together. You
know, we’re not a red state - we’re not red states, we’re not
blue states, we’re red, white and blue. And, you know, I’m the
one who can go and change Washington and, you know, get these
parties to work together.  And it hasn’t happened. And the reason it hasn’t happened,
in my view, is because the president never reached out. There
was never an olive branch. In fact, there was just the opposite.
And I’ve seen (inaudible) interviews have done. Recently, there
was one - it was an AP interview with the president recently,
where he said things will be different next term. We’re going to
start to work with Republicans. And then when pressed, he kind
of said, well, maybe we won’t. Maybe we’ll just - we’ll go
around the Congress. It’s like, whoa, OK. That sounds familiar.  So I think for those voters, likeability is a factor. I
think the No. 1 factor is going to be jobs and the economy, as
it is for every voter group, by the way, including women,
including Hispanics, including African-Americans. And, second,
it’s going to be, you know, issues like debt and deficit and
health care and so on, and high on the list is going to be, hey,
because these voters care about this, who can break through the
partisan gridlock and get something done?  We know that President Obama hasn’t had the interest or
ability or for some reason he hasn’t done it. And we know that,
in terms of Mitt Romney as a businessperson, he’s always had to
find the solution, find common ground. As a governor, he worked
with an 85 percent Democrat legislature to not only balance the
budget, but cut taxes, fees 19 times. We know that, you know,
he’s a person who focuses on results. Look at the Olympics,
where he came in - and it’s never about him. It’s about the
team.  So I think he has the experience and the record and the
public policy positions to be able to break through that
gridlock. And I think for those voters, that’s an important
message.  QUESTION: Senator, as much as President Obama (OFF-MIKE) do
you think (OFF-MIKE) responsibility (OFF-MIKE) Washington (OFF-
MIKE) in addition, by putting  Paul Ryan  on the ticket, he
doesn’t get along with the Democrats (OFF-MIKE)  PORTMAN: Yeah, first of all, there’s plenty of blame to go
around.  QUESTION: So (OFF-MIKE) does bear some responsibility for
the gridlock in Washington?  PORTMAN: Well, I - you know, my view is pretty simple.
America is in trouble. I think we’re in serious trouble. And,
you know, you look at the debt clock that’s up at the
convention. Last night, I was watching it as it approached $16
trillion, $17 trillion. I mean, this is - this is getting
serious.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) your party bearer?  PORTMAN: Well, look, I - there’s plenty of blame to go
around. And - and yet only the executive can show the kind of
leadership that’s needed to do things like tax reform, like the
regulatory relief that has to happen, like the deficit reduction
efforts. His own commission, as you know, was Simpson-Bowles,
and he rejected it. Now, admittedly, a lot of Republicans didn’t
like it, either, but having, you know, followed these issues
over the years, I will tell you, unless there’s leadership from
the executive, it isn’t going to happen.  We never would have had tax reform in 1986 without
leadership from Ronald Reagan and Jim Baker and the Treasury
Department, and that’s how it happens. You know, you never would
have had the kind of changes that  Bill Clinton  was able to do,
to give you an example of a president who was a Democrat who did
reach out, in 1996, without presidential leadership. It never
would have happened. You can’t do welfare reform just through
Congress. It has to have executive and presidential leadership.  So, yes, there are folks on both sides of the aisle who
would prefer the partisan food fight rather than results, but
without presidential leadership, it’s - it’s the essential
aspect of this. It’s not sufficient just to have a Congress that
says, you know, I think we ought to - we ought to deal with
these issues. You have to have presidential leadership. And this
is what I think Mitt Romney has shown in his career that he is
willing to do, and he will roll up his sleeves, I believe, on
day one and say, OK, how do we work together to solve these
problems?  And I think you’ll find some receptivity, by the way. You
know, Ronald Reagan was the boll weevils. I don’t know what the
equivalent term would be now. Dan, you probably have one for
them. It’s not Blue Dog anymore, because most of them are gone.  QUESTION: They’re all gone.  PORTMAN: But there are some moderate Democrats, and there
are some Democrats who aren’t so moderate who are interested in
solving these problems. I mean, the fact that  Dick Durbin  signed
up to Simpson-Bowles (OFF-MIKE) Gang of Six is an example of
that.  HUNT: When - when Paul Ryan and others didn’t.  PORTMAN: Well, yeah. I mean, Paul - Paul Ryan’s concern
about Simpson-Bowles - I’ll let him speak for himself, but he’s
not here -  HUNT: No, but, I mean, I’m just saying, when you’re talking
about - by breaking that deadlock, you praised Dick Durbin, you
know, correctly, but a number of Republicans -  PORTMAN: But - but Paul - Paul has praised the report. If
you hear - you know, if you - if you talk to Al Simpson or
 Erskine Bowles , they will tell you, Paul’s a very constructive
player in that. But at the end of the day, they chose to take a
pass on health care.  HUNT: (OFF-MIKE)  PORTMAN: And they did.  QUESTION: Senator, one of the issues (OFF-MIKE) Governor
Romney (OFF-MIKE) in a bipartisan way is tax reform. He said
he’s going to extend the Bush tax cuts and lower rates by 10
percent. As a former budget chief, would you say that’s possible
without going after some of the more popular deductions,
including charity, mortgage, health care (OFF-MIKE) health care
(OFF-MIKE) state and local income tax? And if not, shouldn’t the
governor tell voters ahead of the election that those are (OFF-
MIKE) that’s what it means, both to get a mandate to do
something and because voters ought to know what he’s talking
about?  PORTMAN: Well, first of all, tax reform is clearly an area
where you could give the economy a needed shot in the arm. It’s
way too complex. It’s outdated. There’s no question that it
hurts our competitiveness. As you know, I spend a lot of time on
the corporate tax reform side, as well, where President Obama
has said some of the right things and done absolutely nothing to
promote a policy change, I mean, nothing, including in the
super-committee where I was, where we were begging for help,
because the administration seemed to understand that having the
highest rate in the world, among all the developed countries,
wasn’t particularly good for us, and we were losing jobs and
investment and capital.  So Mitt Romney is committed to doing something on the
corporate side that actually will bring back jobs and keep us
from losing so many headquarters. My (inaudible) example, for
example, is - being a beer-drinker is the fact that the largest
U.S. beer company now is Sam Adams, you know? And they do have a
brewery in Cincinnati, so I don’t want to be critical of Sam
Adams, but it’s 1 percent market share. And if you talk to these
companies that have left, it’s because of our tax code, you
know?  So it’s - talking about the country being in trouble, we
are in trouble. We are losing corporate headquarters, which is
significant. And in a city like Cincinnati or St. Louis,
Anheuser-Busch, Budweiser, it makes a huge difference. So we do
need to reform the tax code.  In terms of the individual side, there’s no question that
1986 had helped to generate economic growth. When Ronald Reagan
and  Tip O’Neill , Dan Rostenkowski and others sat down and said,
you know, there’s a way to do this, it’s lowering the rate and
broadening the base, and that’s what he’s talking about.  In terms of how you do it, yeah, at the end of the day,
you’ve got to deal with some of these tough issues, because the
tax preferences have grown since 1986 significantly. There have
been something like 4,000 changes to the tax code, and all of
them made the code more complex. It’s now nine times as long as
the Bible and not nearly as interesting.  I mean, it’s - and it’s holding us back, because you don’t
have an efficient allocation of resources, because you’re
allocating resources based on what? What Washington says in
terms of a tax preference.  So there are ways you can do it, and I think you guys have
talked about this on your editorial page. And Ruth has certainly
written about it. But it - it has to do - Marty Feldstein has
got a proposal on this that’s telling folks, OK, you’re going to
have a deduction, there will be some preferences, and you can
choose. And if you choose to give more to charities and want
your charitable deduction, that’s fine. But then maybe your
second home, you can’t get a mortgage deduction.  And, you know, the health exclusion’s another issue that
isn’t necessarily talked about in the context of tax reform, but
I think ought to be, because it’s - in terms of the preferences,
although it’s not a deduction, it’s the biggest preference.  But I think just as happened in 1986, it needs to be a
bipartisan effort. It can be. Most economists who look at our
tax code agree, whether they’re right, left or center.  Max
Baucus  and  Dave Camp , who are chairs of their respective
committees, both are saying the same thing, which is we need to
broaden the base and lower the marginal rate. And -  QUESTION: How much does - how much does Governor Romney owe
the - the voters in terms of specificity on that side, given the
specificity he’s laid out on tax reductions?  PORTMAN: Well, I - I think what he has done in terms of tax
reductions - I would disagree a little bit with some of the
reporting on this. And I’m - maybe the premise of your question,
because I wasn’t quite sure what you were getting at when you
said extend the Bush tax cuts. He’s saying extend the Bush tax
cuts for a period of time to be able to reform the tax code. In
other words, not to take us into recession at year end, which is
what the Congressional Budget Office reported last week will
happen, if we do what President Obama wants to do, which is to
have a $5 trillion tax increase on the American economy at a
time when we’re having the weakest recovery since the Great
Depression. I mean, it makes no sense.  What he’s saying is, extend it for a period of time. I
think it’s six months. Other people say a year. But I think it
has to be short term. I think the markets are going to be
impatient. I think they’ll - they’ll look at six months and say
this is - this is real and put some pressure on Congress to do
the right thing.  But during that time period, what you would have is a very
intensive effort to do what normally takes longer than that to
come up with a new tax code on the corporate and individual
side. And so I don’t he’s talking about - at least from my
reading of his policy papers - maybe I’m missing something here
- what a lot of the press are reporting, which is across-the-
board tax cuts, and then we’ll talk about tax reform. No. He’s
talking about keeping the current code in place that’s been in
place for 10, 11 years now and during that time period reforming
the tax code.  QUESTION: But he’s talking about -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: Yeah, but he’s been very specific about the cuts. No,
I mean, he has been, 28 percent, corporate rate goes to 25
percent, estate tax he’s specific on, dividends and capital
gains he’s specific on. He’s told you all the goodies. He has
not, I don’t think, told us about one single base-broadening
proposal, not one, I don’t think. And the question is, if he’s
going to - should he level with the American people beforehand?
Or is that something you’d just (OFF-MIKE) next year? You’d tell
people the goodies, but you don’t tell them the other stuff?  R. PORTMAN: I mean, I think what he’s said is we need to
lower the marginal rates.  HUNT: Right.  R. PORTMAN: And he has said those rates should be 20
percent, but that it would be paid for by getting rid of a lot
of the underbrush in the code, which is the base-broadening part
of it, and that has to be a bipartisan effort. It can’t be
something that’s dictated to Congress. It’s going to have to be
something where a president leads, as I’ve said. It’s never
happened without it. I think that’s accurate. I don’t know that
there have been any major tax reform without presidential
leadership, and specifically the Department of the Treasury
being engaged and able to provide the important sort of
intellectual framework for it and the data for it, because it’s
really complicated, and there are lots of interactions. And I
think that’s the appropriate way to approach it.  I mean, I think what he’ll have when he’s elected - and I
believe he’ll be elected - is he’ll have a mandate to do tax
reform. And then you go to Congress and it’ll be within this
context that, again, Democrats and Republicans alike are talking
about, which is broadening the base and lowering the marginal
rate.  HUNT: But no specifics?  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) why is it leadership to offer the
goodies now and wait to talk about the hard stuff until after
you’re elected? What does that tell us about his leadership?  PORTMAN: Well, it sounds like you guys are going to talk
about the hard stuff, and you already are, so, I mean -  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: Well, you talked about health exclusion. You said
that should be on the table, right? Should mortgage deductions -
not for second homes, but for first homes - should that be on
the table?  PORTMAN: Well, now I’m speaking for myself, OK, so don’t -
don’t interpret this as being the - the campaign. But, you know,
I’m intrigued by the Feldstein idea, and I think it’s an
important political issue here. You know, how do you actually
accomplish what was done in ’86 with a bipartisan group? You
remember you had from Dick Gephardt to Bradley in the Democrat
side, and then you had Ronald Reagan and Jim Baker in - and
pretty much the whole Republican group saying that, look,
this’ll generate economic growth by lowering marginal rates.  Some taxes have a bigger impact on growth than others. You
know, not all taxes are created equal. And marginal rates and
capital gains and dividends are three that do affect growth in a
significant way.  HUNT: They treated capital gains as ordinary income in the
’86 act.  PORTMAN: (OFF-MIKE)  HUNT: So should we look at that -  PORTMAN: But they lowered it.  HUNT: If - if you lower the top rate, should you consider
creating -  PORTMAN: Well, now you’d be - now you’d be increasing
capital gains.  HUNT: You did then, too.  PORTMAN: Well, it was - the top rate was 28.  HUNT: That’s what they (inaudible) capital gains rate up.
I’m just saying, should you change the capital gains rate and
make it equal to the ordinary income rate?  PORTMAN: (inaudible) that’s - that’s something you’d want
to look at in the context of growth. You know, what will be the
impact on growth? And that to me is, you know, the core issue
here. The reason we’re reforming the tax code isn’t - isn’t just
to simplify the code, as important as that is. It’s to actually
give this economy the needed shot in the arm.  And, by the way, our competitors around the world are all
doing this. You know, every single one of our competitors in,
you know, the OECD countries, all the developed countries, every
single one of those has reformed their tax code in the last two-
and-a-half decades, while the United States has not. And this is
with regard to the corporate rate specifically, but we’ve gone
from, you know, 34 percent where Reagan took it to 35 percent.
That’s all we have done to ours. All of them have lowered their
rates and reformed their code to make it more competitive, every
single one. And that’s one reason we’re losing out in the global
marketplace.  QUESTION: Senator?  QUESTION: Senator?  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) on the budget (OFF-MIKE) state of
Florida (OFF-MIKE) Republicans are making this refrain about
whether Obama’s cuts in Medicare (OFF-MIKE) huge campaign theme.
At the same time, Paul Ryan (OFF-MIKE) same savings (OFF-MIKE)
debt reduction (OFF-MIKE) why (OFF-MIKE)  PORTMAN: Yeah, well, he - he doesn’t take the same savings,
as you know, because what the Obama administration did, what
President Obama did in relationship to his health care law, was
he took these savings out of Medicare and he applied them to a
new entitlement, under his health care law, which is an
unsustainable entitlement, and did nothing to shore up the
Medicare system.  And you can’t have it both ways. The Congressional Budget
Office has finally come around to say, yeah, you can’t double-
count. I mean, it’s either - it’s either you save Medicare by
doing this or you funded the health care law. And it - they
funded the health-care law.  QUESTION: But (OFF-MIKE) I mean, they took the Medicare
savings and they - they filled the doughnut hole for seniors. I
mean, those savings (OFF-MIKE)  PORTMAN: Well, no. No, no, no, no. That was a small part of
it. I mean, and - and Paul Ryan’s not for cutting Medicare
Advantage. That’s part of that $700 billion. Medicare Advantage
(inaudible) to be cut.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) benefit cuts (OFF-MIKE)  PORTMAN: Sure, it is. Sure, it is.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  PORTMAN: No, it is. No, they - they cut what you get in
terms of your reimbursement of your Medicare Advantage, which
led a lot of companies to say, OK, we’re going to have to pull
back on Medicare Advantage, which is incredibly popular, and in
Ohio in particular. In other states, it’s growing dramatically,
because why? People get more choice, and it’s more like the
private pay system, which is the Rivlin-Ryan or Wyden-Ryan
approach, where you tell people you have a choice. You can stay
in traditional Medicare, or you can go into a private-pay
system. So it’s not the same $700 billion.  It is true that many of us, including myself, believe that
those savings, to the extent they’re appropriate - and I think
Medicare Advantage is not an appropriate part of that - but some
of the savings ought to be put back into Medicare to reform the
Medicare system. And this notion that somehow the president’s
health-care law - I refrain from calling it Obamacare, as you
can tell, but it makes it awkward, because people don’t know
what you’re talking about.  But that somehow the - the president’s health-care system
is the answer to Medicare. I mean, wait a minute. OK, now it’s
not just that it’s going to deal with changing one-sixth of our
economy for everybody under 65. Now you’re saying it’s going to
be a new Medicare system, too? Wait a minute. You know, I
thought that was supposed to be something you were protecting.
So you can’t have it both ways.  And my point is really simple, which is, yeah, there are
reforms we have to make to Medicare. Of course. And are there
some savings that you can find on the provider side? There are
some. But, frankly, if you continue to squeeze the provider
under Medicare, you’re going to see fewer and fewer - fewer and
fewer providers being willing to take Medicare patients. Already
in Ohio and other places, there are docs who are saying they’re
not going to accept Medicare patients, probably 25 percent in
Ohio. So you’ve got to deal with the underlying problems in the
program. It’s not sustainable in its current form because of the
way it was structured.  And, by the way, Paul Ryan has been very courageous in
telling that fact, but also saying we’re going to protect
seniors, and we’re going to protect those who are near
retirement. This is not about them. It’s about future
generations and about being sure we have a program that is
secure for the future. And so you would take those savings and
you would use them to help save the Medicare system, not to
create another entitlement.  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: (OFF-MIKE) let me start - Mary was - Mary Norman and
then (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION: Can we just talk about the electoral math in
Ohio? A lot of people are looking at Ohio as a bellwether for
how the country is going.  PORTMAN: Yeah.  QUESTION: I’m from Ohio, and I’m just wondering, do you see
some crossover vote from traditionally Democratic places like
Cleveland? Because that was Ground Zero of the housing crisis
and an enormous amount of disaffection there. How is it going to
play out? And do you think he’s going to win Ohio? How is he
going to win it? And is that really going to be a bellwether for
the country?  PORTMAN: Yeah, I think as a Clevelander you know that
Cleveland’s key, not just because it’s the biggest media market
in the state, but because there are a lot of swing voters in the
Cleveland area, a lot of nationalities voters, a lot of folks
who are culturally conservative, nominally Democrat, a lot of
 Reagan Democrats . And I think Mitt Romney has - has a great
opportunity there.  It’ll be close in Ohio. I mean, there - I’m here with the
Ohio delegation this week, and there are a lot of folks saying,
you know, it’s going to be a landslide in Ohio for Mitt Romney,
and I think, gosh, you know, it’s always close in Ohio. Barack
Obama won it by 4.7 percent, not that I’m counting. But, you
know, it was relatively close then. He won other Midwestern
states by double-digits, including Wisconsin, Pennsylvania,
Michigan, so Ohio is going to be close.  QUESTION: So what’s the path for Romney to win Ohio?  PORTMAN: There’s an absolute path for him to win. It’s to
do - you know,  George Bush  did it in 2000 and 2004, over-perform
in the small towns, the rural areas, which I believe he will do,
and, frankly, the polling is showing that. If you look at what’s
happening in southeast Ohio and eastern Ohio, Mitt Romney is
incredibly popular, partly because of the energy issue. This is
oil and gas country now, next to the shale finds and the new
technology to access the resources. It’s also coal country. So
his numbers there will be incredibly strong, I believe. And,
again, the polling is showing that.  QUESTION: And you think he’ll win Ohio?  PORTMAN: You know, ultimately, yes, I do. I do believe
he’ll win Ohio. And then second is, the folks you’re talking
about who are more in the suburban areas, your area of Cleveland
-  QUESTION: Right.  PORTMAN: - where you’re from, but also Cincinnati,
Columbus, Toledo, Dayton, if you look at what happened in the
primary, it’s interesting. You know, we were probably 11 points
down based on the polling 10 days before the primary. And Mitt
Romney won that primary, narrowly, and where’d win it? In the
suburbs of Cleveland and Cincinnati, primarily. And this was
against  Rick Santorum , not against Barack Obama, but the point
is, he runs well in the suburbs.  And who else runs well in the suburbs or has? Barack Obama.
If you look at his numbers, in 2008, where he exceeded
expectations, actually, was not so much in the urban areas,
where people expect him to do well, but was in the suburbs. And
a lot of folks in the suburbs, I think, were attracted to his
message we talked about earlier of, you know, bringing people
together, and he was going to be a president who was going to be
able to break through the partisan gridlock, and there were
independent voters and moderate Republicans, you know, who
signed up. Those folks were very comfortable with Mitt Romney,
and, frankly, they wouldn’t have been as comfortable with any of
the other candidates who we had in the Republican primary.  So I think he matches up well with Barack Obama in Ohio,
overachieving in terms of the - you know, the registration in
the small towns and rural areas, overperforming, and then doing
well with some of the voters you talked about earlier, some of
the ethnic voters, some of the nationalities groups, some of the
folks who are more culturally conservative, kind of the Reagan
Democrats, and places where there’s, you know, a huge emphasis
on the economy, Mahoning Valley, Cleveland area, Toledo area,
and then, finally, in the suburbs. I think he’ll be able to get
the kind of votes that Republicans had traditionally received in
the suburbs, and Barack Obama made some inroads there in 2008.  So I think he matches up well with Barack Obama in Ohio.
And I think, at the end of the day, it’ll be close, but because
of the issues we talked about earlier, which is jobs and the
economy, by far the top issue in Ohio, and because of the
candidate that we’ve chosen, I think we win.  QUESTION: Senator, could you talk a bit about the
Republican Party of today compared with 2008? Because when
Barack Obama ran in 2008, he was running against an
administration who had taken us certainly to a financial cliff,
if not a fiscal one, whose policies on housing and deregulation
and so forth scared an awful lot of people who decided to vote
for Obama. The - is the party today fundamentally different from
the party that was in power in 2008? And if so, is it more
confident to run the economy? Is a weakened Fed consistent with
business solutions? Is it a party that is as capable of
compromise as Reagan was or as Bush was? And so - and in that
respect, how is it better able to fix the economy?  PORTMAN: Well, I think it is a different party than 2008.
And not to avoid your question on the economic policy, but the
main difference in the party is that it is a unified party. I
mean, our party unity, frankly, surprised me coming out of the
primaries. I think Dan and others who follow the polls will
confirm that about two weeks after the last real primary - in
other words, after it was clear that Mitt Romney had the number
of delegates he needed - our party unity was higher than it had
been any time in 2008. I mean, people came together.  And I’m not suggesting it was all because of the Republican
side. It was a lot because of the president and the deep concern
that Republicans have that another four years is going to be
terrible for this country. So the party’s more unified than
ever, and you - and you see it back home. I mean, I - I can’t
tell you how many people who told me during the primary, I’m for
Rick Santorum, you know, I’m not going to be able to support
this guy in the general if Mitt Romney wins, and they’re all in.
They are all in. And it’s showing up in the polls. It’s showing
up in terms of the energy and the enthusiasm, as well.  But the party unity makes it a different party than it was
in 2008. We were a somewhat divided party in 2008. And there
were people who had concerns. Sarah Palin changed the dynamic
and then kind of changed it again in the process. But the party
was not as unified as it is today.  In terms of economic policy, I mean, you have a guy who has
25 years of business experience, who is incredibly successful,
who showed in the state of Massachusetts he could work with
Democrats to get stuff done, actually brought a lot of jobs back
to Massachusetts, made Massachusetts, you know, a more pro-
business environment, which created more jobs. So you have that
background of - you know, we haven’t had a presidential
candidate with that degree of business experience, I think, in
our - in our history, who actually won the nomination and can
talk about those credentials.  HUNT:  Herbert Hoover .  PORTMAN: OK, well, sorry.  (LAUGHTER)  I choose - I choose to forget that.  HUNT: But not since then.  PORTMAN: I choose to forget that. Twenty-five years of
business experience, so, you know, is something - when you think
about it, I mean, almost everybody who’s run for president, all
the candidates who are in the primary, I mean, they’re people
who spend most of their career in politics, public service. And
it’s just the opposite with this guy.  So I think that - that gives people a certain sense of
confidence that he actually gets it, understands not just how
you create jobs in the private sector, but understands what the
government role is. And it is a significant role, but it’s to
create the climate for growth, not to create the jobs
themselves. And that’s sort of the fundamental difference.  So with stimulus, we were trying to - Washington was - you
know, the Obama administration approach in Washington was trying
to say, if you pass stimulus, this many jobs will be created, a
lot of it through  government spending . And the alternative is to
say, OK, let’s create the climate, the environment for job
growth through the tax reform and the regulatory relief, through
the energy policy that lets us create and take advantage of our
resources here. And I think that’s the fundamental difference,
and I think Mitt Romney’s the perfect messenger for it. So I
think that’s a difference this year that we’re going to have to
be able to talk about that we didn’t have in 2008.  QUESTION: Senator, you’re playing Barack Obama in the
debate practice with Mitt Romney. I assume you’ve studied the
president probably throughout your time in office, but maybe
more (OFF-MIKE) what have you learned about either his debate
style or his broader approach?  PORTMAN: Oh, first of all, you know, I don’t talk about
this stuff, never have. And I - I was surprised when that came
out yesterday, because -  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  PORTMAN: Yeah. You guys - you guys somehow ferreted it out
through the Romney campaign. But so I feel a little awkward
talking about it, because it’s generally something that I just
do quietly, but I did play Barack Obama in 2008 for  John McCain .
And all I can tell you is I was a much tougher Barack Obama than
the one that actually showed up on stage.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  PORTMAN: Much to John McCain’s delight. I was - I was much
meaner in the practice session. But I’ll tell you what, I think
there’s a different Barack Obama this year, Chris. I really do.
I mean, I’m not suggesting how I’m going to play him or, you
know, what - what Mitt Romney might think. But it’s a very
different approach.  I mean, what I talked about earlier is this compelling
message not just of hope and change, but of bringing people
together to solve big problems, you know, not making a big
election about small ideas, which is what he said John McCain
was doing.  It’s just the opposite this year. I mean, in his famous
speech where he said if you don’t have any fresh ideas, you use
stale scare tactics. That’s what he’s doing. He said, if you
don’t want to talk about your record, then you make the other
person unacceptable. That’s exactly what he’s doing.  So I don’t know what he’s going to be like in the debate,
but I assume he’ll be more aggressive and more on the attack
and, you know, it’ll be more personal. And that’s certainly the
campaign that he’s running. And it’s not just the ads, by the
way. If you hear President Obama talk, you know, he - he goes
into all this stuff about, you know, his view of Mitt Romney
personally and - and it’s - it’s - it’s a different sort of
approach. And in many respects, I guess, it’s trying to bolster
their base, and, you know, maybe that - maybe that works at the
end of the day, but I - I think the person who shows up this
year at the three debates is going to be a different person than
the one who showed up four years ago who was talking about how
to bring the country together.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) but is the impact of the debates -
and, by the way, when the headline went up yesterday about
Portman to play Obama, my favorite tweet was, yes, she really
nailed it in “The Black Swan.”  (LAUGHTER)  But -  PORTMAN: One quick  Natalie Portman  story, if I might. So we
have three kids, and as you can imagine, they’ve gotten more
attention in the last several months, and more than they wanted.
Is that accurate?  JANE PORTMAN: (OFF-MIKE)  ROB PORTMAN: As has Jane. So somebody goes up to my son,
Will, and says, so what’s it like when, you know, you meet
somebody and they say, wow, are you Senator Portman’s son who’s
on the short list? And he said, you know, really what they say
is, I’m really disappointed you’re not Natalie Portman’s son,
you know?  (LAUGHTER)  Or brother, you know. We’ve got a few other Natalie Portman
stories, which we love.  QUESTION: But the - but the impact of the debate -  PORTMAN: She’s far more popular than I am, I will say, in
the state of Ohio.  QUESTION: But given the fact that these debates are going
to come after, you know, millions and millions and millions of
negative ads, and that they’re going to come in this environment
where, you know, stray tweets can kind of have people talking
for a day, is the impact going to be different? And are they
going to have to sort of approach them in a different way?  PORTMAN: Well, I think it’s a great opportunity for Mitt
Romney, for the very reason that you just stated, which is there
will be a continual barrage of negative ads - already have been
- and for him at least in Ohio, it’s - it’s been kind of
overwhelming. In other words, there have been a lot more on
their side than on our side, just because they’ve had more
resources. They didn’t have a primary. Mitt Romney spent $167
million in a primary, and Barack Obama spent it all in Ohio.  So it was just - it was a - it’s an opportunity for him to
let people see him in person, see who he is, and show his
character. I think he’ll do very well, almost regardless of kind
of what happens in terms of the issues and the debates. It’s
just seeing him and watching him and understanding where his
heart is. And the guy’s in this for the right reasons, and I
think - I think he’ll do very well. It’s an opportunity for him.
I view it as an opportunity, much like this convention is, just
to let the American people see him unfiltered.  And I think - you know, I think that is an advantage,
frankly, to the challenger, because everybody has a strong
opinion of Barack Obama one way or the other. I mean, he’s been
our president for three-and-a-half years. And, folks, he’s not
been a shrinking violet in terms of his exposure. You know, I
mean, he’s been out there, and some say the most, you know,
exposed president ever in the sense that he’s - he’s not
hesitant about, you know, putting himself out there, as compared
to some other presidencies who’ve tried to kind of pull back and
- not that he’s done a lot of press conferences with you all,
but - but he’s - but he’s out there, and so people know who he
is and have a - have a sense of it.  Whereas with Mitt Romney, I think, you know, it’s - for
many people, it’s a blank slate, you know? They’re looking to
see who he is, and that’s why I think he has a great opportunity
here at the convention and then a great opportunity in these
debates. So if I were him, I’d be looking forward to the
debates.  QUESTION: I want to (OFF-MIKE) narrative (OFF-MIKE)
Republican Party (OFF-MIKE) in a war on women. And I wonder
whether you think that the Republican Party is doing enough
about that or what Romney can do to try to - try to reverse that
(OFF-MIKE).  PORTMAN: Yeah, I - I got asked about Todd Akin’s comment by
three reporters almost - you know, one before I even landed in
the airplane here in Tampa and, you know, whether this is a huge
distraction. And my answer was, no, I mean, I - you know, his
comments were so out of the mainstream and so offensive, so
outrageous, it’s just - you know, it’s not something that voters
in Ohio, I think, are thinking that somehow the Republican Party
represents. We don’t.  And so I think the administration maybe and the Obama
campaign have overplayed it. I think most people look at this
and say, you know, this is, you know, one guy’s view that is out
of the mainstream, and to try to tag Mitt Romney with it is just
crazy.  And I’ve seen some of your fellow reporters, by the way,
make that point, when the chair of the DNC, you know, has gone
overboard on it, and they’ve said, wait a minute, that’s, one,
not something that Mitt Romney believes. In fact, he actually
has the exceptions in terms of the issue of abortion. So it’s
not even in terms of the policy framework something that - that
he comes close to agreeing with.  So, you know, in terms of the war on women, the war on
women is what this economy is doing to families all over this
country. And that’s what women care about the most. I mentioned
earlier that, you know, it seems like increasingly in politics
we want to divide America into different groups and then target
them. And I object to that, in part because I think it divides
our country, in part because I think some of these political
consultants miss the big picture, which is - among women, the
top issue is their families and getting jobs for their kids and
jobs for themselves and take-home pay and the cost of gas at the
pump and what’s going on with their health care and their higher
deductibles and co-pays. I mean, it’s all the issues that Mitt
Romney is talking about.  So that’s the essential issue. That’s the war that they’re
fighting is, you know, how to stay above water, how to - how to
make ends meet. And that’s - that’s the core issue that the
Republican Party is going to be talking about.  QUESTION: Last - last question here.  QUESTION: Senator - Senator, on two specific issues within
Ohio, first of all (OFF-MIKE) sequestration (OFF-MIKE) how much
of an impact? And then, secondly, an issue on which both
Governor Romney and Paul Ryan have been very specific on
Medicare, is specificity going to come back and bite them (OFF-
MIKE) ads going to work (OFF-MIKE)  PORTMAN: What’s the - what’s the first issue?  QUESTION: Sequestration (OFF-MIKE)  PORTMAN: Yeah, I mean, I think - and you’ve written on this
a little bit - the way in which the Obama administration is
approaching sequestration is another example of lack of
leadership. We talked earlier about how just all of these huge
problems that face our country, you’ve got to have leadership
from the executive branch. I mean, for them to say, well, you
know, Congress set up this sequestration thing with us and so
it’s - you know, it’s going to be $500 billion of cuts across
the board, even though the secretary of defense says this is
going to be devastating to our troops. He said it will hollow
out the force. You know, he said we cannot sustain this. I mean,
he’s used the most extreme language to say this is unacceptable.  And yet when we ask the administration, well, work with us
to come up with solutions, they’re, you know, basically hands-
off. So I - you know, should the Pentagon be looked at for
reforms to help solve the budget crisis? Yes. You know, it’s a
huge part of our budget. Of course, there’s areas there where
you can gain efficiencies and there is ways to - and there are
concerns about some of the weapons programs in particular that -
that I and other people have on both sides of the aisle.  But to arbitrarily say we’re going to cut another almost
$500 billion out of the defense budget in an across-the-board
manner with no plan - no plan - and the first round, which was
about the same amount, by the way, was based on a plan. You
could argue about it, whether it was the right plan, but it was
based on a strategy that keeps our country safe in the eyes of
the current secretary of defense and the former secretary of
defense, Bob Gates, who happened to have been also in the Bush
administration.  This one is based on nothing, other than we’re just going
to arbitrarily across the board make these cuts. So think about
the issue of pilot training, for instance. Are we going to cut
pilot training? Yeah, that’s what’s going to happen. Does that
make sense? No. You know, does it make sense to look at some of
the weapons systems that create some of the airplanes that they
might fly? Yeah, to come up with sensible reforms to stop these
huge overruns of costs and so on.  So it’s almost like the administration, whether it’s on tax
reform or whether it’s on entitlement reform or whether it’s on
dealing with the deficit, where they send a budget forward that
not a single Democrat can support or a single Republican, it’s
almost like they’re not engaged in the same process of
government creating, again, this environment for job growth,
government creating business opportunities by having sensible
policies, that they’re just - they’re just backing off and
blaming others.  QUESTION: - for you to set this whole thing in motion with
(OFF-MIKE) done that differently in retrospective?  PORTMAN: Jen, I have strong views on this. As you know, I
was a member of the so-called super-committee which wasn’t so
super. I think it - I think it was a bad structure in a couple
of respects. One, I think having sequestration made it too easy
for the super-committee to say we’re going to get the cuts
anyway, for Republicans, without any revenue impact, for
Democrats, by cutting defense, which is something many Democrats
have been wanting to do for many years and haven’t been able to.  So it was - it was not the right structure, in my view.
I’ve said that before publicly. It doesn’t make me very popular
among our leadership on both sides, because that was their
arrangement. But it gave us, you know, the ability within that
structure, sitting around a table like this one, where
Republicans are saying, we can’t go along with the huge tax
increases you guys were talking about. Democrats are saying, we
can’t touch entitlements, to say (inaudible) is a way to get out
of this, which is the same amount of savings through the so-
called sequester, where sort of nobody is playing.  So I don’t think it was the right structure. I think it
would have been better to have had a cliff, to have said, if you
don’t complete your work, nothing happens in terms of cuts and
we find ourselves in a situation where the markets may well
correct for us. And that would have created, I think, more sense
of urgency and a more constructive process.  HUNT: Senator, we -  PORTMAN: - wasn’t enough time. There wasn’t enough time to
set up to do what had to be done, which (inaudible) entitlement
reforms and the tax reforms.  HUNT: Your wife’s giving you the hook.  (LAUGHTER)  But just before we go -  PORTMAN: She does that.  HUNT: - you several times have mentioned the need to bridge
the partisan divide and leadership on the fiscal issues. Can you
bridge the partisan divide, can you address the fiscal issue
without addressing both entitlements and revenue increases?  PORTMAN: Well, you can’t solve the budget problems we face
without growing the economy, one.  The fiscal hole has gotten so deep that you have to both
restrain spending and grow the economy.  HUNT: How about revenue increases?  PORTMAN: Well, that leads you to tax reform.  HUNT: But not - but not (OFF-MIKE) even though every single
commission has said we ought to have both -  PORTMAN: Well, Al -  QUESTION: Do you believe that through tax reform you’ll get
increased revenue?  PORTMAN: Absolutely. No question about it. And this -  QUESTION: Without anything that actually raises taxes?  PORTMAN: Well, I know this is - this is often ignored, but
as Jen will remember, because we took a lot of heat from some of
our conservative friends, in the process of the so-called not-
so-super-committee, Republicans, including myself, did put on
the table static revenue increases, but only in the context of
tax reform that did - that did not have this $5 trillion tax
increase at year end and also included some substantial
entitlement reforms needed to save these programs. And, you
know, I think we put forward a very sensible proposal on that.
And -  HUNT: So you’ve got to do both? You’ve got to have
entitlements and tax increases -  PORTMAN: But it’s - but it’s got to be in the context of
growth, Al. And this is I think what we’re missing in this whole
equation right now, is that, you know, growth solves a lot of
problems. Obviously, it creates opportunities for poor and
middle-class families who are now hurting more than anybody. And
the, you know, $4,300 bucks per family on average reduction in
take-home pay over the last three-and-a-half years has to be
resolved by growing this economy, and that’s how you get the job
numbers back into the 4 percent, 5 percent from, you know, what
I think is now 10 percent, 11 percent, when you include people
who’ve left, you know, left the workforce.  But it’s also how you generate the revenue to be able to
get out from under this incredible overhang of deficits and
debts that we’re dealing with, which is also a wet blanket on
the economy. They’re - they’re related. One affects the other.
So you’ve got to have growth.  You also have to deal with the spending side. And this is
where, you know, Democrats have been unwilling to come to the
table, in part because their president has given them absolutely
no cover, none. In fact, with regard to the super-committee, as
you’ll recall, after our first serious substantive meeting, we
received a veto threat from the president. Instead of saying,
you know, I want to work with you guys, and to the Democrats on
the committee, if you’re willing to do something on the
entitlement side to save these programs, I’ll work with you. He
said, I’ll veto a bill if you touch entitlements.  HUNT: You’ve got to have both -  PORTMAN: I mean -  HUNT: - both spending and taxes?  PORTMAN: Yeah. I mean, it’s - it’s - it can’t be done
without growth at this point, and it can’t be done without
restraining spending.  QUESTION: We’ll leave it at that.  PORTMAN: And taxes - and taxes - and tax reform -  QUESTION: She’s giving me the hook now.  QUESTION: Senator, thank you very much.  PORTMAN: All right. Thank you all for your time. Stay in
touch.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.
 