-- Principal Wins China Approval for $150 Million Investment
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-28T20:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/principal-financial-wins-150-million-quota-for-china-investment.html
Principal Financial Group Inc. (PFG) , the
provider of  life insurance  and retirement products, said it will
use a $150 million China investment quota approved yesterday to
start a fund for non-U.S. institutional clients.  Principal is seeking investors for the fund, which will be
domiciled in Dublin, Adam Lackey, a company spokesman, said
yesterday by phone. Tony Chu, a Hong Kong-based portfolio
manager, will help oversee the investments.  Principal, based in Des Moines, Iowa, is seeking to expand
in  emerging markets  including China, where the economy may grow
8 percent this year, compared with about 2 percent in the U.S.,
according to economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange granted the
firm’s asset-management unit approval to buy as much as $150
million of yuan-denominated equities known as A-shares,
Principal said in a statement.  “We’ve already had interest from non-U.S. institutional
investors,” Lackey said. “Now that we have the quota, the fund
is ready to go.”  Principal Global Investors manages $259.8 billion for
clients including  retirement plans  and has offices in Singapore
and  Hong Kong , according to yesterday’s statement. The firm
manages assets for Chinese clients as part of a joint venture
with China Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s second-largest
lender by assets.  China increased the total amount qualified foreign
institutional investors can put into stocks, bonds and bank
accounts to $80 billion from $30 billion, the China Securities
Regulatory Commission said in April. The commission had approved
170 foreign intuitional investors at the end of May, according
to its  website .  Foreign Capital  China is working to attract foreign capital to the world’s
second-largest economy as  growth slows . The benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index declined 5.7 percent this year before today.  “China wants to open up their capital markets,” said
Michael Ding, lead portfolio manager of the China Regional Fund
at U.S. Global Investors, which oversees about $2 billion. “You
can improve the liquidity in the market.”  Investors can purchase shares of Chinese companies listed
in Hong Kong without government approval, Ding said. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of 40 Chinese companies listed in
Hong Kong had slumped 4.2 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  