-- Putin Threat Pushes Regions Debt Costs to Records: Russia Credit
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-08-28T07:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/putin-threat-pushes-regions-debt-costs-to-records-russia-credit.html
Regions such as Yaroslavl, featured
on the 1,000 ruble note, are paying record rates to replace
shorter-term bank loans as President  Vladimir Putin  warns of
financial mismanagement.  Yaroslavl, about 75 miles northeast of Moscow, sold 3
billion rubles ($94 million) of three-year notes last week at
9.1 percent, an all-time high for the region and  Russia ’s first
municipal sale in three months. Volgograd, named after  Europe ’s
longest river, set a record 9.67 percent coupon for the 1
billion rubles of five-year notes it plans to sell Aug. 29.  Putin warned July 17 that the finances of some of the
country’s regions may spiral out of control if they don’t end
their reliance on short-term bank loans. Local governments have
grown more dependent on federal funding since market turmoil in
2008-2009 forced a retreat from the  bond market .  “Regional borrowers are stuck between the hammer and the
anvil; they have to balance their development plans with strict
borrowing limits,” Konstantin Anglichanov, director of
international public finance at  Fitch Ratings  in Moscow, said by
phone on Aug. 24. “Their income resources are limited, unlike
those of Russia, while their investments are rising.”  The yield on Yaroslavl’s 2013 ruble bonds surged to 11.4
percent yesterday, the highest level since October 2011. The
premium over comparable federal debt widened to 519 basis
points, within 69 basis points of a record high on July 12,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Significant’ Support  S&P in the second quarter downgraded Tver, the first for
one of Russia’s 83 regional governments in more than a year. The
region is rated B+, or four steps below investment grade and
five levels below Russia’s sovereign rating.  “In the event of deterioration in the economy, the regions
will need a significant amount of support from the  federal
budget ,” UralSib Capital analysts led by Dmitry Dudkin said in
a research note Aug. 16. “Most regional budgets are sensitive
to the economic cycle.”  Russia had 384 billion rubles of regional bonds outstanding
at the end of July, a decline of about 17 percent from its peak
in January 2011, according to UralSib’s data.  Even the bigger, higher-rated regions are paying more to
borrow. Nizhny Novgorod, a hub for billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s
automaker OAO GAZ, is selling 8 billion rubles of five-year
bonds with a 9.85 percent coupon, the most in nine months -- and
the region’s debt chief is happy with the rate.  “We found an issuance window,” Sergey Avdonin said by
phone yesterday from  Nizhny Novgorod . “There’s temporary market
euphoria. Investors are optimistic that a global crisis can be
avoided.”  Bridge Financing  The money will be used to refinance existing debt and help
fund infrastructure projects, including a new subway bridge over
the Oka river, Avdonin said. Even with the higher coupon,
Nizhny’s sale will help it replace more expensive financing and
reduce the region’s debt level to about 60 percent of annual
revenue next year from 65 percent now, he said.  To be an attractive borrower, a Russian region’s debt
should be less than 20 percent of operating revenue on average,
a low level compared with most countries, said Boris Kopeykin, a
Moscow-based S&P analyst. Thirty-two regions have debt equal to
30 percent of revenue and the ratio exceeds 50 percent in 12
regions, Putin said July 17.  “The problem is that even such a moderate debt level often
leads to a significant debt-service burden, which needs to be
refinanced,” Kopeykin said by phone yesterday. “With short
debt structures, even a small debt level needs to be refinanced
every year.”  The ruble weakened 0.5 percent to 32.0199 per dollar by
10:51 a.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, which provide a
guide to expectations of currency movements, showed the ruble at
32.5116 per dollar in three months.  Turkey, Swaps  The yield on the government’s domestic ruble bonds due in
June 2017 slipped one basis point to at 7.60 percent. The yield
on Russia’s dollar bonds due in April 2020 was steady at 3.017
percent. Russia’s international ruble bond due in March 2018 was
little changed, with the yield at 6.462 percent.  Russia is rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
third-lowest investment grade. The cost of protecting Russian
debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default
swaps rose one basis point to 164 on Aug. 24, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The swaps cost 16 basis points less than
contracts for  Turkey , which is rated three levels lower at Ba1
by Moody’s.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. London banks
were closed yesterday for a public holiday.  Higher Rates  The higher rates are luring investors.  Nizhny Novgorod received orders exceeding 29 billion rubles
for its 8 billion-ruble sale when it stopped accepting bids Aug.
24, according to the regional government. Yaroslavl received 5.8
billion rubles of orders for the 3 billion rubles of notes it
offered, according to Troika Dialog, which organized the sale.  “For investors, the situation with regional debt is not
concerning, they see this as a chance to purchase debt at a high
 interest rate ,” Andrey Bobovnikov, vice president of fixed
income at Aton LLC in Moscow, said by e-mail Aug. 24. “Sub-
federal debt usually shows resilience in times of crisis,
especially since we haven’t seen any defaults in the sector
since 1998.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  