-- South African Bonds Gain on Growth Concerns; Rand Strengthens
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-08-29T14:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/rand-gains-for-first-time-in-four-days-ahead-of-growth-data.html
South African bonds gained for a
second day as traders bet the central bank will cut  interest
rates  for a second time amid signs growth in  Africa ’s biggest
economy is stalling. The rand advanced.  Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due March 2021
dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.80
percent as of 4 p.m. in Johannesburg.  South Africa ’s currency
gained less than 0.1 percent to 8.4046, rebounding from a 0.3
percent decline in earlier trading.  Manufacturing contracted 1 percent in the second quarter
even as gross domestic product increased 3.2 percent after
mining output surged, Statistics South Africa said yesterday.
Mining growth may be short-lived after Lonmin Plc, the third-
biggest platinum producer, halted production following the worst
labor violence since the end of apartheid in 1994. The central
bank cut its benchmark interest rate by 50 basis points on July
19 to help boost growth amid a global slowdown.  “Yesterday’s GDP release suggested that growth is indeed
softening,” Theuns de Wet, head of fixed-interest research at
Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, and colleagues wrote in e-
mailed comments. “We put the odds on another cut before the
middle of next year above 50 percent.”  Factory output, which accounts for 15 percent of the
economy, is under pressure as a debt crisis in  Europe  cuts
demand from a region that buys 25 percent of South Africa’s
exports.  Forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on interest
rates, were unchanged at 4.78 percent, or 30 basis points lower
than the Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate, indicating that
traders are pricing in a 60 percent chance of a 50 basis-point
rate cut within six months.  Chinese Demand  The rand declined in earlier trading as commodity prices
retreated on concern that Chinese demand is slowing and ahead of
a meeting of central bankers where the U.S. Federal Reserve may
announce more measures to stimulate the economy.  China  may slow the pace of monetary loosening on concern
inflation may rebound, Xinhua News Agency said yesterday, citing
Bank of Communications Co. and China International Capital Corp.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week there’s “scope for
further action” from the U.S. central bank. He is scheduled to
speak later this week at a symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  “Any failure of the central banks to raise expectations of
more stimulus could see the rand under significant pressure,”
Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM
Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments.  China, which buys 13 percent of South Africa’s exports, is
the nation’s biggest trading partner. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI
index of raw materials declined 0.2 percent as the prices of
metals including copper dropped.  “A weak global growth environment and softness in
commodity prices” will keep the rand on the back foot, Bruce Donald, a currency strategist at  Standard Bank  Group Ltd. in
Johannesburg, wrote in e-mailed comments. Standard Bank sees the
rand declining to 8.60 per dollar by year-end, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  