-- Travelport, Sabre, Orbitz Must Face AMR’s Antitrust Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-29T21:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/travelport-sabre-orbitz-must-face-amr-s-antitrust-suit.html
Sabre Holdings Corp., Travelport LP
and  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW)  must face American Airlines Inc.’s
antitrust claims, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Terry R. Means in Fort Worth,  Texas ,
yesterday publicly released his previously sealed Aug. 7
decision at the companies’ request.  American claims Sabre, Orbitz and Travelport are conspiring
to block the carrier from entering the electronic flight data
and reservations market via its AA Direct Connect system, in
violation of federal antitrust laws.  “American identifies the specific intent to monopolize
allegedly shared by Sabre, Travelport and Orbitz,” Means wrote
in his 23-page ruling, denying defense motions to dismiss those
claims filed under a part of the Sherman Antitrust Act.  The case is part of a dispute triggered by Fort Worth-based
American’s move to provide flight information directly to travel
agents rather than going through the three data providers.  Jill Brenner, a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based Travelport,
said in an e-mail statement today that “AA’s claims against
Travelport are without merit both as a matter of law and as a
matter of fact.” In an Aug. 16 ruling, Means threw out
Travelport counterclaims against the airline owned by bankrupt
 AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)   “We continue to dispute these allegations and will defend
ourselves vigorously, with the expectation that Orbitz will
prevail,” Marita Thomas, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based
Orbitz, said today in an e-mail.  ‘No Decision’  “There was no decision on the merits of the claims,” said
Nancy St. Pierre, a spokeswoman for Southlake, Texas-based
Sabre. “The judge did not say American’s claims were valid,
only that American had made allegations sufficient to meet the
minimal pleading requirements of federal court.”  “American makes a number of unsupported allegations which
Sabre denies,” she said.  The company’s Sabre Inc. unit, which was spun off from AMR
in 2000, is the largest U.S.-based global distributor of fare
data. Sabre Holdings is also the parent of online travel agent
Travelocity.com.  “The court’s order confirms that American has adequately
pleaded numerous antitrust claims against the defendants,
including monopolization and conspiracy claims,” the airline
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “We would prefer to resolve our dispute with the
defendants amicably, but any such resolutions need to end
anticompetitive practices and to account for the harm done to
American,” American said in the statement. “We are convinced
these claims have substantial merit, and absent settlements, we
intend to continue vigorously pursuing our legal rights.”  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. Travelport  Ltd., 11-
cv-00244, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas ( Fort
Worth ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  