-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Reaches Three-Week Low on Fed Speculation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-08-28T16:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/treasury-10-year-yield-approaches-two-week-low-on-growth-outlook.html
Treasury 10-year yields fell to the
lowest in almost three weeks before the U.S. sells $35 billion
in two-year notes amid bets the  Federal Reserve  will undertake a
third round of bond purchases under quantitative easing.  U.S. government debt  rose earlier after  Japan  cut its
economic assessment amid slowing prospects for global growth.
Treasuries have fallen 0.6 percent in August, trimming a loss of
as much as 1.6 percent earlier in the month, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data showed. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
speak Aug. 31 at a conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , where he
is expected to share his views on the need for stimulus.  “The market is under the impression that QE3 is around the
corner,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading
at Guggenheim Partners LLC a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors. “With all the uncertainty out there,
the two-year auction will go just fine.”  The 10-year  yield  fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 1.63 percent at 12:23 p.m.  New York  time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was the lowest since Aug. 8.
The price of the 1.625 percent note maturing in August 2022
 gained  6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 31/32.  Two-year note  yields  were little changed at 0.27 percent
today, and yields on 30-year bonds decreased two basis points to
2.74 percent.  More Costly  Treasuries are the most expensive in three weeks, according
to the term premium, a model created by economists at the Fed
that includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and
inflation. The gauge was at negative 0.89 percent today, the
costliest since Aug. 6. It reached negative 0.70 percent Aug.
16, the least expensive since May. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  The Treasury is selling $99 billion in notes this week,
including $35 billion of five-year securities tomorrow and $29
billion of seven-year debt on Aug. 30.  The two-year securities being sold today yielded 0.275
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.22 percent at
the previous offering on July 24, a record  auction low .  Investors  bid  for 4 times the amount of available debt last
month, the most since the all-time high of 4.07 in November at
the monthly auctions.  Indirect bidders , the category of buyers
that includes foreign central banks, purchased 30.9 percent, the
least since December.  The securities were underpinned by speculation the Fed will
inject additional capital into the economy.  ‘Some Impact’  More Fed stimulus would have “some impact,” especially if
the central bank focuses on buying mortgage securities, said
Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s largest manager of bond funds, in an
interview with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television. The housing
market is “healing,” and Fed stimulus for that is critical to
the overall recovery, El-Erian said.  The Fed has purchased $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt in two rounds of quantitative easing to
spur economic growth. Its next meeting is Sept. 12-13.  Bernanke is scheduled to speak at the end of the week at
the Kansas City Fed’s annual economic symposium. Minutes of the
July 31-Aug. 1 meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee ,
released last week, showed many policy makers said additional
stimulus probably will be needed soon unless the economy shows
signs of a durable pickup.  Fed Purchase  The central bank also is swapping shorter-term Treasuries
in its holdings with those due in six to 30 years to put
downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs. It bought $4.65
billion today of securities due from November 2020 to August
2022 as part of the program.  Treasuries remained higher today after a report showed  home
prices  in 20 U.S. cities climbed in June from a year earlier,
the first gain in almost two years. The S&P/Case-Shiller index
increased 0.5 percent from June 2011, the first increase since
September 2010, the group’s data showed. Economists in a
Bloomberg News survey forecast a 0.05 percent drop.  Confidence among U.S. consumers fell in August by the most
in 10 months, another report showed. The Conference Board’s
index decreased to 60.6 from a revised 65.4 in July, figures
from the New York-based private research group showed. The 4.8-
point decrease was the biggest since October. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey projected a reading of 66.  Bond Returns  An index of U.S. investment-grade and high-yields bonds
showed they returned 0.1 percent this month through yesterday,
and 8.2 percent in 2012, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show. Treasuries gained 2.1 percent in 2012, the data showed.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks returned 2.9
percent in August as of yesterday, rallying 11 percent this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 10-year yield faces significant resistance at 1.63
percent, said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . If it breaches that
level, it may fall to 1.585 percent. Resistance is an area on a
chart where sell orders may be clustered.  Ten-year yields fell to a record low 1.38 percent on July
25 and rose to a three-month high of 1.86 percent on Aug. 21.  Treasuries gained earlier today as a report showed risks to
the Japanese economy include a “further slowing down of
overseas economies and sharp fluctuations in the financial and
capital markets.” The outlook was in a monthly report the
Cabinet Office released in  Tokyo .  China  faces “difficulties,” Premier  Wen Jiabao  said,
Xinhua News Agency reported on Aug. 25. Germany and  France  are
planning measures on European integration as they battle an
economic contraction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  