-- U.S. Yield Approaches Two-Week Low on Inflation Outlook
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-28T05:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/treasuries-snap-gain-before-confidence-report.html
Treasury yields were one basis point
away from a two-week low as the outlook for contained inflation
and slowing global economic growth drove demand for bonds.  U.S. government securities dropped 0.6 percent in August as
of yesterday, trimming a loss of as much as 1.6 percent earlier
in the month, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Forecasts for the  Federal Reserve  to initiate a new round of
bond purchases to support the economy helped drive the rebound.
An index of bonds around the world that includes government,
company and mortgage securities was little changed, reversing
losses of as much as 0.6 percent.  “Yields are going to go down,” said Hideo Shimomura, who
helps oversee the equivalent of $76.1 billion in  Tokyo  as chief
fund investor at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which is
part of Japan’s largest publicly traded bank. “There’s no
reason to fear inflation globally.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.64
percent as of 6:53 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 1.625 percent security due in
August 2022 was 99 27/32. The rate was as low as 1.63 percent on
Aug. 24, a level not seen since Aug. 13.  The record low was of 1.38 percent on July 25. Rates may
fall below that level this year, Shimomura said.  Japan ’s 10-year yield slid 1/2 basis point to 0.805
percent. It has declined from this month’s high of 0.86 percent
on Aug. 16. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Debt Sales  The U.S. plans to sell $35 billion of two-year debt today,
the same amount of five-year notes tomorrow and $29 billion of
seven-year securities on Aug. 30.  The two-year notes yielded 0.27 percent in pre-auction
trading, compared with 0.22 percent at the previous sale on July
24, which was a record low.  Investors  bid  for 4 times the amount of available debt last
month, the most since the all-time high of 4.07 in November at
the monthly auctions.  Indirect bidders , the category of buyers
that includes foreign central banks, purchased 30.9 percent, the
least since December.  U.S. consumer prices rose 1.4 percent in July from a year
earlier, the smallest gain since November 2010, based on the
latest figures from the Labor Department.  The  difference  between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
same-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge
of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, was 2.31 percent. The average over the past decade is 2.16
percentage points.  Asian Economies  Japan’s government cut its assessment of the world’s third-
biggest economy today.  China , the second-biggest, faces
“difficulties,” Premier  Wen Jiabao  said, according to Xinhua
News Agency Aug. 25. Germany and  France  are planning measures on
European integration as they battle an economic contraction.  An industry  report  today will show U.S.  consumer confidence 
rose this month, based on a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Treasury yields that are 26 basis points away from the
record low are spurring demand for higher rates than those
available from  government bonds , said Tomohisa Fujiki, an
interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in
Tokyo. The company’s U.S. arm is one of the 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed.  “Some funds shifted to higher yields,” he said.
“Equities are doing fine because of expectations for further
Fed easing.”  An index of U.S. investment-grade and high-yields bonds
returned 0.1 percent this month through yesterday, and is up 8.2
percent in 2012, the Bank of America data show. Treasuries
gained 2.1 percent in 2012, based on the data.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks returned 2.9
percent in August as of yesterday, rallying 11 percent this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jackson Hole  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has pledged to keep the target
for U.S. overnight bank lending at almost zero through at least
late 2014. The central bank has also purchased $2.3 trillion of
Treasury and mortgage-related debt to cap  interest rates .  Bernanke is scheduled to speak at the end of this week at
the Kansas City Fed’s annual economic symposium in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming . The Fed’s next meeting is Sept. 12-13.  “We see an announcement of another round of asset
purchases at the September meeting as more likely than not,”
 Zach Pandl , the Minneapolis-based senior interest-rate
strategist at Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC, wrote
on the company’s  website  yesterday. The central bank will
concentrate its purchase on mortgage bonds, according to
Columbia, which oversees $331 billion.  The Fed is currently in the process of swapping shorter-
term Treasuries in its holdings with those due in six to 30
years to put downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs.  The central bank is scheduled to buy as much as $5.5
billion of securities due from November 2020 to August 2022
today as part of the program, according to the Fed Bank of  New
York   website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net . 