-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Fall to 3-Week Low Amid Fed Speculation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-08-28T21:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/treasuries-remain-higher-as-fed-bets-buoy-demand-at-note-auction.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year note
yields to the lowest level in almost three weeks, as speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will begin a third round of bond purchases
under quantitative easing this year stoked demand.  The government’s auction of $35 billion in two-year
securities drew more bids than average. Treasuries have trimmed
an August loss to 0.6 percent amid bets on further stimulus,
from as much as 1.6 percent earlier this month, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data showed,. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may
discuss stimulus Aug. 31 in a speech at a conference in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming .  “There’s a growing consensus we’ll be seeing QE from the
Fed,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of
government and agency debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a
fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional investors.
“Everybody is looking toward both Jackson Hole and what we may
see from the Fed in terms of further discussion of what they’ll
be purchasing in QE3.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.63 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 1.61
percent, the lowest since Aug. 8. The price of the 1.625 percent
security due in August 2022 gained 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000
face amount, to 99 29/32.  Ten-year yields slid to a record low 1.38 percent on July
25 and rose to a three-month high of 1.86 percent on Aug. 21.  Yields on the current two-year note were little changed at
0.26 percent. Thirty-year bond yields decreased one basis point
to 2.75 percent.  ‘Just Waiting’  “The market is still relatively well bid, as no one wants
to take big risk bets ahead of Jackson Hole,” said Thomas Simons, a government debt economist in New York at Jefferies
Group Inc., one of 21 primary dealers required to bid in U.S.
debt auctions. “Everyone is just waiting for Bernanke.”  Treasuries are at the most expensive level in three weeks,
according to the term premium, a model created by economists at
the Fed that includes expectations for  interest rates , growth
and inflation. The gauge was at negative 0.88 percent today, the
costliest since Aug. 6. It reached negative 0.70 percent on Aug.
16, the least expensive since May. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  The two-year notes sold today drew a  yield  of 0.273
percent, compared with 0.275 percent in pre-auction trading. The
 bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of securities offered, was 3.94, versus an
average of 3.75 at the past 10 sales.  Auction Bidders  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 22.3 percent of the notes at today’s
auction, the least since December. The average was 33.4 percent
at the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 16.1 percent of
the notes, the most since March, versus with an average of 10.8
percent at the past 10 auctions.  “It wasn’t a bad auction, but it wasn’t a particularly
great auction,” said Simons of Jefferies. “It’s the week
before Labor Day, and markets aren’t excited about much at the
moment.”  The Treasury is selling $99 billion in notes this week.
It’s due to auction $35 billion of five-year securities tomorrow
and will sell $29 billion of seven-year debt on Aug 30.  Prospects are good for the remaining two auctions this week
amid expectations for Fed stimulus, Pressprich’s Milstein said.  Two-year notes have returned 0.1 percent this year, versus a
2.1 percent gain by Treasuries overall, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. The two-year securities returned
1.5 percent in 2011, while Treasuries overall rose 9.8 percent.  Quantitative Easing  The Fed purchased $2.3 trillion of Treasury and mortgage-
related debt in two rounds of quantitative easing from 2008 to
2011 to spur economic growth. Its next meeting is Sept. 12-13.  Bernanke is scheduled to speak at the Kansas City Fed’s
annual economics symposium. Minutes of the July 31-Aug. 1
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee , released last
week, showed many policy makers said additional stimulus
probably will be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of a
durable pickup.  “The market is under the impression that QE3 is around the
corner,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading
at Guggenheim Partners LLC a New York-based brokerage for
institutional investors.  Outline Options  Bernanke probably won’t offer specific plans in the Jackson
Hole speech, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El- Erian said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with  Betty Liu .  “The minutes were consequential, and we don’t expect
Bernanke to take it further than what the minutes said,” said
El-Erian, the co-chief investment officer at Pimco, the world’s
largest manager of bond funds. “It’s highly probable that he
will outline the options that the Fed has available and the
commitment to do more if needed.”  Treasuries gained earlier today as a report showed risks to
the Japanese economy include a “further slowing down of
overseas economies and sharp fluctuations in the financial and
capital markets.” The outlook was in a monthly report the
Cabinet Office released in  Tokyo .  Hurricane Isaac and a deadly blast at a Venezuelan refinery
pushed gasoline to an almost four-month high.  Oil Output  Group of Seven nations called on oil-producing countries to
increase output and said they “stand ready to call upon the
 International Energy Agency  to take appropriate action to ensure
that the market is fully and timely supplied.”  G-7 finance ministers are monitoring the risks posed by
high  oil prices , according to a G-7 joint statement issued today
by the U.S. Treasury Department.  Treasury  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest inter-
dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , rose to $203 billion
today, after dropping yesterday to about $110 billion, the
lowest level this year. It has averaged $238 billion in 2012.  Volatility was little changed yesterday at 66.3 basis
points, below the 2012 average of 75 basis points, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index. Volatility dropped
to a five-year low of 56.7 basis points on May 7 and touched a
2012 high of 95.4 basis points on June 15. The index measures
price swings based on options.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  