-- Republicans Call for Medicare, TSA Overhauls in Platform
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-08-28T23:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/republicans-call-for-medicare-tsa-overhauls-in-platform-1-.html
The  Republican National Convention 
adopted a 2012 party platform that advocates changing how U.S.
senior citizens receive health care by shifting Medicare from a
defined-benefit entitlement to a defined-contribution plan.  The  platform  also proposes a constitutional amendment to
ban abortion without stipulating any exceptions for ending
pregnancies caused by rape or to save a woman’s life. It also
affirms marriage as “the union of one man and one woman.”  The platform would turn administration of the Medicaid
program for 54 million low-income Americans over to the states.
The outlines of the Medicare overhaul, which wouldn’t affect the
47 million current beneficiaries or anyone older than 55, are in
line with the proposal to revamp the program by the party’s vice
presidential nominee, Representative  Paul Ryan .  “This ambitious blueprint projects a sea change in the way
government works,” said Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell, the
platform panel’s chairman. States would “take center stage in
the long-overdue renewal of our American society” through
“reforming Medicaid and welfare programs and managing
environmental programs locally.”  The 2012 platform was adopted on a voice vote today as the
convention opened in Tampa.  Debt ‘Driver’  Calling Medicare “the largest driver of future  debt ,” the
platform proposes giving senior citizens financial support,
adjusted by income, to purchase private insurance. Such private
plans would compete with the traditional Medicare program. To
achieve further savings, the current Medicare eligibility age of
65 should be “made more realistic” because of longer  life
expectancy , the platform says.  The platform also calls for turning many of the functions
of the  Transportation Security Administration  over to private
businesses to provide security at airports throughout the U.S.  In a boost for big coal-production states like Wyoming,
Illinois and  West Virginia , the platform advocates development
of “state-of-the-art” coal-fired  power plants  and the new coal
gasification and “coal-to-liquid” fuels.  It says President  Barack Obama ’s administration “seems
determined to shut down coal production” even though “there is
no cost-effective substitute for it” as the “largest source of
electricity generation.”  Keystone Pipeline  The party affirmed its commitment to building the Keystone
XL pipeline, which  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  proposes carry tar-sands
crude from Alberta to refineries along the  Gulf of Mexico . The
Obama administration is reviewing a revised proposal after the
president rejected the original route, which raised concerns it
would damage environmentally fragile regions of Nebraska.  Republicans “respect the states’ proven ability” to
regulate hydraulic fracturing to tap oil and natural gas
resources, the platform said.  On abortion, the platform advocates legislation to bar
women from terminating a pregnancy for the purpose of selecting
a child’s gender.  The constitutional amendment to ban abortion is a
reiteration of the  Republican Party ’s longstanding position. The
issue was thrust to the forefront of the political debate after
Todd Akin, a Missouri congressman running for the Senate, said
he opposed making an exception for rape because “legitimate
rape” rarely leads to pregnancy.  Akin Distraction  As the platform was being debated in Tampa last week,
Republicans seeking to end the distraction from Romney’s
candidacy, called for Akin to drop out of the Senate race and
allow another Republican to challenge Democratic incumbent
 Claire McCaskill . Akin, who apologized for the remark, has
defied those requests that he step aside.  The platform calls for a permanent ban on all federal
financing of abortions; such a prohibition is enacted as a
policy restriction to spending measures. The platform also
advocates the end of any government subsidies for private health
plans that provide abortions, though the party wouldn’t do away
with tax benefits for companies that sponsor such coverage.  In a bow to supporters of Texas Representative  Ron Paul ’s
presidential candidacy, the platform calls for a commission to
study the feasibility of returning the dollar to the gold
standard. A similar commission created by President  Ronald Reagan  “advised against such a move,” the platform noted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  