-- Richmond Fed Manufacturing Survey for August (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-08-28T14:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/richmond-fed-manufacturing-survey-for-august-text-.html
The following is the text of the Richmond Federal
Reserve Bank’s manufacturing sector activity survey for August.  Overview  Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region contracted at a less
pronounced rate this month, after deteriorating in July, according to the Richmond
Fed’s latest seasonally adjusted survey. Looking at the main components of activity,
shipments edged higher, employment turned negative, and the weakness in new orders
moderated somewhat. Evidence of diminished weakness was also reflected in most other
indicators. District contacts reported that backlogs, capacity utilization, and
delivery times remained negative but improved from July readings. Moreover, finished
goods inventories grew at a slightly slower pace, while growth in raw materials was
nearly unchanged.  Looking forward, assessments of business prospects for the next six months were
generally in line with last month’s readings. Contacts at more firms anticipated
steady growth in shipments, new orders, and backlogs in the months ahead, while they
expected capacity utilization to grow more quickly.  Survey assessments of current prices revealed that growth in both raw materials
and finished goods grew on par with July. Over the next six months, respondents
expected growth in both raw materials and finished goods prices to grow at a
somewhat quicker pace than they had anticipated last month.  Current Activity  In August, the seasonally adjusted composite index of manufacturing activity --
our broadest measure of manufacturing -- gained eight points to −9 from July’s
reading of −17. Among the index’s components, shipments increased twenty-four points
to 1, new orders picked up five points to end at −20, and the jobs index moved down
six points to −5.  Most other indicators also suggested some easing in the pace of recent
weakness. The index for capacity utilization picked up seven points to −9, and the
backlogs of orders edged up two points to −25. Additionally, the delivery times
index added one point to −4, while our gauges for inventories were mixed in August.
The raw materials inventory index was virtually unchanged at 24, while the finished
goods inventory index fell three points to end at 18.  Employment  Weak labor markets persisted in August. The manufacturing employment index
subtracted six points to end at −5 and the average workweek indicator declined
further, losing four points to −11. Moreover, the wage index fell six points to 3.  Expectations  Respondents in the current survey were somewhat more optimistic about their
business prospects than reported a month ago. Indexes for both expected shipments
and new orders increased one point, with each index finishing at 17. Backlogs moved
up six points to 6 and capacity utilization jumped fifteen points to 21. Vendor
lead-time edged up two points to 5, while readings for planned  capital expenditures 
lost ten points to 10.  District manufacturers’ hiring plans advanced somewhat in August. The expected
manufacturing employment index added two points to finish at 8 and the average
workweek indicator picked up eight points to 10. The index of expected wages held
steady at 20.  Prices  District manufacturers reported that raw materials prices increased at an
average annual rate of 1.32 percent, almost unchanged from July’s reading of 1.33
percent. Finished goods prices rose at a 0.51 percent pace, matching July’s reading
of 0.51 percent.  Looking forward, respondents expected that the prices they pay will advance at
a 2.78 percent pace compared to July’s reading of 2.42 percent. Contacts looked for
finished goods prices to increase at a 2.04 percent annual rate, up slightly from
last month’s 1.82 percent pace.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  