-- Rioting in Kenyan Port of Mombasa Breaks Out for Second Day
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-08-28T15:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/rioting-in-kenyan-port-of-mombasa-breaks-out-for-second-day-1-.html
Kenyan police fired tear gas at
rioters and a grenade blast wounded an officer in the port city
of  Mombasa  in the second day of unrest since the killing of a
Muslim cleric under U.S. and UN sanctions, police said.  A police officer was wounded in a grenade blast today,
 Kenya  police spokesman  Eric Kiraithe  said. One person was hacked
to death yesterday during riots that erupted in reaction to the
killing of Sheikh Aboud Rogo Mohammed, who was shot in a car in
Mombasa by unknown gunmen, Coast Provincial Police Officer
Aggrey Adoli said.  Police officers are trying to restore order as hundreds of
rioters loot shops, vandalize property and throw stones in the
predominately Muslim Majengo suburb, he said by phone today from
Mombasa.  Rogo faced sanctions by the U.S. and UN for fundraising and
recruiting fighters for  Somalia ’s al-Qaeda affiliate, al-
Shabaab. The insurgents have been fighting since at least 2006
to topple the Western-backed government in Mogadishu, the
capital, and rule by strict Islamic law.  Kenyan soldiers are part of an African Union peacekeeping
mission, fighting alongside Somali and Ethiopian forces, to help
bring the country under government control after more than 20
years of anarchy since dictator Mohamed Siad Barre’s ouster.  ‘Political Component’  The violence in Mombasa follows a week of fighting by rival
communities in Kenya’s Tana River, Mandera and Wajir districts
that killed at least 64 people. The  United Nations  is “deeply
concerned” about the attacks, UN Humanitarian Coordinator
Aeneas Chuma said.  “There is evidence to suggest the killings have a
political component related to redrawing of boundaries and next
year’s general elections,” he said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Kenya’s next national elections are scheduled to take place
in March 2013, the first since a disputed December 2007 poll
prompted ethnic violence which killed at least 1,133 people and
caused economic growth to plummet.  The Indian Ocean port of Mombasa,  East Africa ’s busiest,
handles shipments coming in and out of Kenya, the world’s
biggest black tea exporter, as well as interior countries such
as Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi.  Thirteen people were killed in a  suicide car bomb  attack on
a Mombasa hotel in 2002, the same day assailants tried to shoot
down an Israeli charter plane leaving the city, according to the
city of Mombasa’s website. Al-Qaeda is suspected to have carried
out both attacks, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  