-- Russian Court Sentences Anti-Putin Activist to 8 Years for Drugs
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-08-28T15:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/russian-court-sentences-anti-putin-activist-to-8-years-for-drugs.html
A Russian court jailed opposition
activist Taisiya Osipova for eight years on drug-related
charges, defying public outcry and calls for a more lenient
verdict by prosecutors and Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev .  The judge didn’t find enough mitigating factors in a review
of Osipova’s case to give her less than a minimum sentence of
eight years in prison for attempting to sell drugs, Olga
Shilina, a spokeswoman for Zadneprovsky District Court in the
northwestern city of Smolensk, said by phone today. Prosecutors
had sought a four-year term.  Osipova was arrested in 2010 after police found drugs in
her house and received a 10-year sentence in 2011. After then-
President Medvedev called the verdict “too harsh,” a regional
court annulled the ruling and ordered a new trial in March.  President  Vladimir Putin , who reclaimed the Kremlin after
March’s presidential elections, has hardened his response to the
biggest unrest since he came to power in 2000. A Moscow court on
Aug. 17 sentenced performers of the Pussy Riot punk band to two
years in prison for a protest against Putin. Anti-corruption
activist and protest leader Alexey Navalny as well as  Alexander Lebedev , the billionaire newspaper owner who supports the
opposition movement, face criminal charges.  A member of an opposition coalition called the Other Russia
and the wife of one of the group’s senior members, Osipova was
included by anti-government protesters in February on a list of
“political prisoners” along with former Yukos Oil Co. owner
 Mikhail Khodorkovsky .  Osipova contended that the drugs were planted by police in
her home during a raid. The  Other Russia  group said that Osipova
was targeted because of her husband, Sergey Fomchenkov, and her
refusal to testify against him. Osipova has been kept kept in
custody even though she has diabetes and a young daughter who
was five years old at the time of her arrest, according to a
 website  in her support.  Medvedev’s position on Osipova’s case remains unchanged,
Interfax reported, citing his spokeswoman, Natalya Timakova.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  