-- Russian Suicide Blast Kills Muslim Leader in Dagestan Region
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-08-28T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/russian-suicide-blast-kills-muslim-leader-in-dagestan-region.html
A suicide bomber in the southern
Russian region of Dagestan killed Muslim scholar Said Afandi al-
Chirkawi, local authorities said.  Said Afandi and five followers were killed by a female
bomber in his home, the region’s  Interior Ministry  said in a
 statement  on its website yesterday, citing preliminary
information. Said Afandi was the most important spiritual leader
of Dagestani Muslims, said Maxim Shevchenko, a member of
President  Vladimir Putin ’s Council for Inter-Ethnic Relations.  The killing “may lead to a dramatic increase in
violence,” said Grigory Shvedov, head of Caucasian Knot, a
Moscow-based research group. “He was a religious figure with
the biggest political influence as among his followers were
hundreds of senior officials in Dagestan.”  Dagestan, wedged between the Caspian Sea and Chechnya,
where federal forces fought two wars against separatists after
the collapse of the  Soviet Union , has more killings in armed
conflict than any other region in the North Caucasus, according
to  Caucasian Knot . There were 378 people killed in 2010 and 413
in 2011, it said.  “His murder may undermine the very fragile  peace process 
in the region and lead to large-scale repressions and the
further escalation of terror,” Shevchenko said. He estimated
that Said Afandi had more than a 100,000 followers, mostly
ethnic Avars.  Putin was traveling in Tatarstan yesterday, another Muslim
region, to pay tribute to local scholars who were killed or
wounded in recent attacks.  “Terrorists, bandits, whatever ideological slogans they
use to cover up, always hit from behind the corner, always
cynically,” Putin said “They want to achieve only one thing --
to sow hatred and fear. They won’t succeed. Not here in
Tatarstan and the Volga region, not in the North Caucasus, not
in any region of our big country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  