-- Ryan the Salesman Won’t Take No for an Answer
-- B y   J o h n   P a u l   R o l l e r t
-- 2012-08-28T22:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/ryan-the-salesman-won-t-take-no-for-an-answer-john-paul-rollert.html
Governor  Chris Christie  of  New
Jersey  has been viewed as the Republicans’ most in-your-face
salesman, whipping up crowds with a hard sell. Representative
 Paul Ryan , the party’s vice-presidential candidate, is supposed
to be the earnest, non-flashy policy wonk.  Yet this dichotomy of substance versus style misses the
point: Ryan is the most relentless salesman in the  Republican
Party . A ubiquitous presence on television, he has an easy
smile, an ingratiating manner and a relentlessly upbeat air.
Compared with his no-compromise colleagues, he acts less like a
drill sergeant and more like a devoted student of  Dale Carnegie.   This is a shrewd choice on Ryan’s part, but it may also
reflect what he is selling. Say what you will about the wisdom
of changing the fundamental guarantees of entitlements or making
dramatic cuts to social programs -- these aren’t the type of
goods that sell themselves.  Ryan first came to prominence after the 2004 election when
he promoted an ambitious plan to privatize  Social Security . It
was regarded as too radical by  George W. Bush ’s administration,
which pushed a more modest plan that proved such a dud that the
president later regretted making it a priority.  In 2007, Ryan’s first budget proposal enjoyed a similar
reception. The cuts he proposed were considered so aggressive
that 40 members of his own party voted against it. A year later,
he introduced a revised proposal. It fared little better. Only
eight co-sponsors signed on.  Electoral Costs  Since then, Ryan has worked tirelessly to sell his vision
to congressional colleagues, not without success. His 2011 “Path
to Prosperity” budget won the support of almost every House
Republican, even though, as Washington Post columnist Charles Krauthammer said of the proposal, “At 37 footnotes, it might be
the  most annotated  suicide note in history.”  While he admired the congressman’s chutzpah, Krauthammer’s
point was well-founded. A few weeks later, Democrat  Kathy Hochul 
won an off-year election in  New York ’s 26th Congressional
District by running against Ryan’s Medicare plan. The loss was
especially cruel for Ryan because the area had been represented
in the 1970s and 1980s by his mentor,  Jack Kemp,  in what was
then the 31st District.  Ryan has proved undeterred, even if a majority of Americans
have slammed the door in his face. Last week, a poll by  Public
Policy Polling  found that only 19 percent of respondents
supported the most contentious part of his Medicare proposal --
changing the program’s open-ended benefit to a voucher program.  He understands that the term “voucher” conjures up images
of the ticket you get when your trip to Disney World is rained
out, so he calls  his proposal  a “premium support plan.” Careful
branding isn’t the only way Ryan has tried to sell his ideas.
More notable is the structure of his sales pitch. When he
marshals his facts, he doesn’t deploy them like an annoying
high-school debater, scoring minor points at the expense of the
larger argument. Instead, he uses them to define problems that
admit to only one solution -- the very one he favors.  Using ominous language that makes you wonder whether he
isn’t hoarding canned goods in his basement, Ryan goes further.
“We’re in a different, and dangerous, moment,” he said when he
was first introduced as  Mitt Romney ’s running mate. “We’re
running out of time -- and we can’t afford four more years of
this.”  To the degree that you believe the growth of Medicare is a
ticking time bomb whose danger is only exceeded by the “debt
crisis,” Ryan’s proposals not only seem sensible, they may be
obligatory.  Unwelcome Message  As a national candidate, he faces two challenges. The first
highlights the tension between substance and style. Campaigns
aren’t exactly conducive to educating voters, particularly when
the lesson a candidate aims to teach is something they don’t
want to hear. Ryan has little time to introduce himself, much
less make his case.  The second challenge is more considerable. He has relied on
his ingratiating style to persuade people to hear him out. Now
he faces criticism that is the bane of the best salesmen,
namely, that his pitch and persona have the whiff of something
disingenuous.  Ryan’s fate, and that of the Republican ticket, will depend
on whether he can convince voters that his proposals are a
response to pressing circumstances, rather than an attempt to
take advantage of them. If he fails to close the deal, will he
lose his magic touch, or simply dust himself off and start
selling for 2016?  (John Paul Rollert teaches leadership at the Harvard
Extension School. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on using the  Strategic Petroleum
Reserve  to hold down gasoline prices and on the need for
disclosure in  natural-gas drilling ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Mitt
Romney’s odd sense of humor ; Clive Crook on the  foreign policy
Romney won’t adopt ; Jonathan Mahler on how the Red Sox and
Dodgers  ended a baseball era .  To contact the writer of this article:
John Paul Rollert at  rollert@post.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  