-- Saab Closes in on Swiss Gripen Deal With Swedish Guarantees
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-08-28T12:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/saab-closes-in-on-swiss-gripen-deal-as-sweden-guarantees-timing.html
Switzerland will press ahead with an
order for 22  Saab AB (SAABB)  Gripen E/F fighter jets, signing the firm
contract as early as 2013 and making a first payment a year
later, Defense Minister Ueli Maurer said.  Sweden’s government will guarantee Switzerland a 3.1
billion Swiss franc ($3.2 billion) fixed price, the delivery
time frame and the technical performance of the aircraft as part
of the deal, Maurer said at a presentation in Thun, Switzerland.  Sweden and Switzerland could sign a firm contract as early
as 2013 if Switzerland has no referendum on the Gripen deal, or
by mid-2014 if the country decides such a vote is necessary. The
Swiss government is scheduled in October to submit details of
the Gripen program for parliamentary debate.  Switzerland  will make a first payment to Saab of 300
million francs in 2014. The remaining payment schedule will be
decided when the final contract is signed, Maurer said.  The Gripen is the best fit for Switzerland because “it was
designed as a defense aircraft for a neutral country,” Maurer
said. The Gripen was “significantly cheaper” than competing
offers and is the “sensible solution” rather than “the top of
the top,” Maurer has said.  ‘Full Agreement’  “We feel confident that this will lead to a full
agreement,” Swedish Defence and Security Export Agency director
general Ulf Hammarstroem said in a separate presentation in
 Stockholm .  Saab will lease Switzerland 11 Gripen C/D class fighter
jets between 2016 and 2020 for 44 million francs per year as an
interim solution to replace its fleet of  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
F-5E Tigers.  Switzerland will treat the leased fighter jets “like a
deposit,” in state-to-state negotiations if Saab delays
delivery of the new fighter jets, Swiss Air Force Commander
Markus Gygax said in an interview.  “We could have the C/Ds a little longer without having to
pay as much,” he said. “That would be a good solution.”  Alternative compensation could be Gripens delivered with
more weapons and higher-tech electronics, he said.  Each new Gripen E/F class jet is worth less than $100
million dollars per basic unit, Gygax said. He could not comment
on how much of the 3.1 billion franc project cost would go to
Saab.  Switzerland will receive 11 new Gripens by the end of 2019
and all 22 aircraft by 2021, the Swiss defense ministry said in
a presentation.  Switzerland said August 24 that it had entered a framework
agreement with  Sweden  for the purchase of 22 Gripen jets,
completing a memorandum of understanding signed by the two
countries on June 29. The jets will begin delivering in 2018,
later than 2016 time frame which Switzerland had first sought.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  