-- Sanderson Farms Cuts Egg Output After Grain Costs Increase
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   S h r u t i   S i n g h
-- 2012-08-28T20:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/sanderson-farms-cuts-egg-forecast-after-grain-costs-increase.html
Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , the fourth-
largest U.S. chicken producer, said it cut egg output after
record grain prices drove up feed costs.  The company made the 2 percent reduction starting Aug. 6,
following a 4 percent cut implemented in January, Laurel,
Mississippi-based Sanderson said today in a statement. It plans
to run its plants at 6 percent below capacity until conditions
improve, the company said today when reporting fiscal third-
quarter  earnings  that topped analysts’ average estimate.  “While market prices for chicken remain higher than they
were last year and have strengthened over the past few weeks,
they are not high enough to offset what we now expect to be
significantly higher input costs,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Joe F. Sanderson said in the statement.  Sanderson rose 8.5 percent to $44.05 at the close in  New
York , the most since May 4, 2009.  Higher feed costs may erode the company’s bottom line in
September and October, Sanderson said in a telephone interview
today. The company hasn’t bought any corn or soybean meal for
those two months yet because yields from the coming U.S. harvest
are unclear, he said.  “I never know what markets are going to do, but if they
follow past trends, we have a chance of having a profitable
quarter” for the three months through October, Sanderson said.  Beats Estimates  Most-active corn futures in  Chicago  rose to a record on
Aug. 10 as the worst U.S. drought in five decades reduces the
crop to the smallest in six years. Sanderson hasn’t purchased
any corn from  Brazil  yet amid the rally and may consider buying
from the country after the yields and quality of U.S. crops are
clearer, he said.  Net income for the fiscal third-quarter was $28.7 million,
or $1.25 a share, in the quarter ended July 31, compared with a
loss of $55.7 million, or $2.51, a year earlier, Sanderson said
today. That beat the $1.07 average of six analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Net sales climbed 22 percent $624.9
million, beating the $611.8 million average of five estimates.  Sanderson also said it chose Nash County,  North Carolina ,
as the site of its new poultry complex. Construction is on hold
“until market fundamentals improve,” he said.  Tyson Foods Inc. was the largest U.S. chicken processor
last year, followed by JBS SA’s Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. unit and
closely held Perdue Inc., according to WATT PoultryUSA, an
industry publication.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  