-- Santos Confirms Colombian Government Held Talks With FARC Rebels
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-08-28T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/santos-confirms-colombian-government-held-talks-with-farc-rebels.html
The Colombian government has held
“exploratory talks” with the country’s Marxist rebels to seek
an end to the country’s 50-year civil war.  The results of the government’s meetings with envoys from
the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, will be
known “in the coming days,” President  Juan Manuel Santos  said
in a televised address yesterday evening.  “From the first day of my government I have complied with
the constitutional obligation to search for peace,” President
Juan Manuel Santos said today in a televised address. “To this
end, we have started exploratory talks with the FARC with the
aim of seeking an end to the conflict.”  An increase in FARC activity has contributed to a plunge in
Santos’ poll ratings, even after his government tracked down and
killed the group’s two most senior commanders. The guerrilla
group’s attacks rose for a seventh straight year in 2011, to
2,148, according to the New Rainbow Foundation, a Bogota-based
think tank that monitors the conflict.  The Colombian government “will maintain operations and a
military presence in every centimeter of the country,” Santos
said.  The President’s address came after Colombian journalist
Jorge Enrique Botero  told   Venezuela ’s state-owned Telesur TV
network yesterday that the government has held secret meetings
with FARC envoys in Cuba since May. The meetings were also
brokered by Venezuela and  Norway , he said. Santos’ cousin,
former Vice President Francisco Santos, who is director of RCN
Radio, also reported that talks had taken place.  Botero, a reporter with a history of access to the
guerrillas’ senior commanders, said the FARC has agreed to meet
with Santos’s government in October. Botero has previously
reported on Colombia’s civil conflict from inside guerrilla
camps, and was the only journalist to interview three American
defense contractors taken hostage by the FARC after their plane
crashed in Colombia’s southern jungle in 2003.  The Doctor  Two senior rebels, including a member of the group’s seven-
man ruling secretariat known as The Doctor, were involved in the
talks, according to Botero.  The proportion of Colombians with a favorable image of the
president fell to 47 percent in July from 71 percent a year
earlier, according to a poll published by Semana Magazine.
Approval of his handling of security fell 23 percentage points
to 36 percent, the poll found.  “As Minister of Defense, Santos delivered the hardest
blows to the guerrillas,” said Claudia Lopez, an analyst at La
Silla Vacia, a Colombian political website, in a telephone
interview yesterday. “This is the combination of a military
operation with an eventual political negotiation that’s needed
to find an end to the conflict.”  The surge in guerrilla attacks is hampering  Colombia ’s goal
of increasing oil output to 1 million barrels a day from 914,000
barrels last year.  The rebels are targeting oil workers, pipelines and
electricity pylons to try to derail what Santos says is one of
the country’s growth “locomotives.” Attacks on oil pipelines
more than quadrupled to 88 in the first seven months of the
year, from 20 in the same period in 2011, according to the
 Defense Ministry .  Oil accounted for 49 percent of Colombia’s exports last
year, up from 24 percent in 2007.  Santos Popularity  The talks could produce “a solution that doesn’t please
anybody,” if the FARC insists on keeping some of its weapons,
or the government grants immunity for people accused of crimes
against humanity, said  Adam Isacson , an analyst at the
Washington Office on  Latin America .  “The best outcome is a cease of hostilities now, and the
FARC’s demobilization and the delivery of as many of its members
as possible,” Isacson said, speaking by phone from Washington
D.C. before Santos’ speech.  Peace talks could also lead to more intensive attacks on
Santos from former President  Alvaro Uribe  and his followers,
Isacson said. Uribe, who supported Santos’ run for president in
2010, now attacks him continually in interviews and on his
Twitter site.  Colombia’s second-largest guerrilla group, the National
Liberation Army, or ELN, said it is also willing to hold peace
talks with the government, according to Reuters, which cited an
interview with the group’s leader.  Frode Andersen, a spokesman for Norway’s Ministry of
 Foreign Affairs , declined to comment when called before Santos’
address.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  