-- Shepard’s ‘Heartless’ Faces Scars, Death: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-08-28T11:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/shepard-s-heartless-faces-scars-death-jeremy-gerard.html
Sam Shepard’s spookily engrossing
drama, “Heartless,” presents two clues right away in its world
premiere at the  Signature Theatre .  There’s a scream. A young woman, her naked chest mapped by
a thick crimson scar running nearly the length of her torso,
crosses the stage to her much older lover’s bed. Neither seems
to know the source of the howl.  Those are pretty good indications that a mystery is at
hand; that sex will be involved; and that nothing will be what
at first it appears to be.  Or at second, for that matter -- this being Shepard
territory, where family secrets are buried so deep and private
agendas play out so oddly that we never know who’s telling the
truth. Alliances constantly shift.  Better to trust no one.  Sally (Julianne Nicholson), the woman in the opening scene,
may be a student. She’s definitely moody. Her hookup is Roscoe
(Gary Cole), a professor of literature specializing in Cervantes
and Borges who recently left his wife and children.  Nobody Cares  When he leaves to walk his dog, Sally’s dour sister Lucy
(Jenny Bacon) begins preparing a tray full of injections and
medications for their crabby wheelchair-bound, no-nonsense,
Shakespeare-quoting mother, Mable (Lois Smith). Neither Mable
nor Lucy cares much for Roscoe, despite -- no, because of -- his
efforts at diplomacy.  He does, however, catch the eye of Mable’s attractive,
apparently mute, nurse Elizabeth (Betty Gilpin). You can
probably guess what plot twists that inspires.  Sally’s scar is the result of a heart transplant received
when she was a child. Living with the ticker of a dead girl has
left her with an existential as well as a physical deformity.
“I should be dead,” she says. She has taken to videotaping her
intimate encounters with Roscoe, no matter how humiliating.  It’s not giving too much away to say that other scars will
be revealed, and secrets dredged up that will make it impossible
for us to believe anyone. That’s Shepard’s trademark: Denying us
a credible guide into the lives of his dysfunctional characters.
It’s what distinguishes his mature plays -- and this is one of
them, if not up to the level of “ Fool for Love ” or “True
West.”  No Ocean  Eugene Lee’s set doesn’t advertise the play’s  Los Angeles 
setting; it comprises a pair of old-fashioned metal-frame beds,
a cafe table and chairs and a steeply raked incline toward the
back suggesting an overlook not of the ocean but of the San
Fernando Valley. Two rather solitary-looking palm trees flank
the stage.  Director Daniel Aukin leaves the dizzying changes in plot
to the author while keeping his fine company in reality check.
It unfolds naturalistically. The play is full of silences that
have the force of poetry.  That makes sense for a playwright who swash-buckled through
youth with rock ’n’ roll ferocity and now embraces mortality
with something like remorse.  Through Sept. 30 at the Pershing Square Signature Center,
480 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-212-244-7529;
 http://www.signaturetheatre.org .
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  books ,  art  and  Amanda Gordon ’s
Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 