-- SNB’s $380 Billion Pile Makes Jordan Wonder
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-08-28T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/snb-s-380-billion-pile-makes-jordan-wonder-how-to-spend-it.html
Swiss central bank President Thomas Jordan is wondering how to invest his currency reserves as euros
pile up at the bank at a record pace.  “The SNB has the same problem as lots of wealth
managers,” said Ursina Kubli, an economist at Bank Sarasin in
Zurich. “Safe assets have become very expensive. So for the
time being, they prefer cash over investing.”  With  Europe ’s debt crisis hurting returns on the least
risky bonds, the  Swiss National Bank  is keeping reserves in cash
after its policy to cap the franc swelled currency holdings by
50 percent in the four months through June to a record 365
billion francs ($380 billion). Money held at central banks, the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  Bank for International
Settlements  accounted for 72 percent of the gain.  The SNB has been piling up euro holdings to defend the
franc ceiling of 1.20 versus the single currency introduced in
September 2011. While the central bank previously mainly
invested foreign currencies in government bonds of AAA-rated
nations, the surge in cash reserves suggests policy makers are
finding it more difficult to find the right investments.  SNB Reserves  The SNB’s foreign-exchange holdings amounted to about 60
percent of Swiss gross domestic product at the end of the second
quarter. Euros accounted for 60 percent of currency reserves, up
from 51 percent three months earlier, reflecting the ongoing
battle to keep a lid on the franc. The currency surged about 17
percent to a record against the euro in the six months before
the ceiling was introduced.  The Zurich-based SNB has also seen its cash holdings at
other central banks, or  sight deposits , surge to 107.6 billion
francs in June, compared with an average of 6.4 billion francs
in the year through April. In the 15 months through June 2010,
when the SNB bought billions of euros to weaken the franc
without a ceiling, the average share was near zero.  The fallout from the sovereign debt crisis has left only
four of the euro area’s 17 economies the AAA rating from the
three major ratings companies.  France , the region’s second-
biggest economy was stripped of its top  credit rating  by
 Standard & Poor’s  on Jan. 13, as the company downgraded the debt
of nine nations in the currency bloc.  Risky Business  “The SNB could still invest in some fixed-income
securities,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a strategist at  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in Zurich. “But the range of investment options
has narrowed markedly in recent months as yields have declined.
So from the SNB’s point of view, it makes sense to hold a
sizeable amount of cash in these risky times.”  The yield on the 10-year German bund fell to a record low
1.13 percent on June 1. Two-year notes returned minus 0.007
percent on Aug. 28, indicating that investors are willing to pay
for the privilege of holding the region’s safest securities.  While the euro-area turmoil has pushed up the price of what
is perceived as a safe asset, the SNB’s internal guidelines may
limit its ability to seek better returns from riskier
investments. They require the central bank to have a
“substantial part” of its holdings in  government bonds  to meet
“secure investment” standards.  Jordan, 49, said on June 14 that a “large part of our
foreign-currency investments are bonds issued by governments of
the core euro area with very high quality.” At the end of the
second quarter, government bonds in their own currencies and
deposits with central banks and the BIS accounted for 85 percent
of the SNB’s foreign assets, with 86 percent of all bond
holdings rated AAA.  Dollar Holdings  “For a risk-averse investor there aren’t too many options
at the moment, especially if you are focusing on the euro
area,” said Peter Schottmueller, a  fund manager  at Deka
Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt . “With yields for high-quality
government bonds in the euro area very low, it doesn’t matter
for the SNB whether they invest in fixed-income securities or
keep their money as cash.”  The SNB has been selling euros purchased against other
currencies in a bid to diversify its portfolio, according to
balance-sheet data. Still, its share of currency reserves in
dollars fell to 22 percent in the second quarter from 28 percent
in March. Yen and Canadian dollar reserves also declined in that
period, indicating the pace of swapping euros for foreign
currencies has slowed.  ‘Wary’ SNB  At the same time, the share of so-called other currencies
including Australian dollars and Danish kroner accounted for 3.5
percent of overall reserves at the end of the second quarter, up
from 2.9 percent a year earlier. The SNB also added Korean won
in the first quarter and Jordan said on June 14 that
“additional investment opportunities in the advanced and
emerging economies are continually being evaluated.”  Linowsky at Credit Suisse said the SNB may maintain its
focus on fixed-income securities and keep the share of other
currencies limited since it’s not necessarily seeking higher
returns. Janwillem Acket, chief economist at  Julius Baer Group
Ltd. (BAER)  in Zurich, agrees.  “The SNB currently seems reluctant to keep the pace of its
diversification,” Acket said. “Apparently they are not only
wary of investing in euro-denominated assets but also in
securities issued in other currencies.”  Maxime Botteron, an economist with Credit Suisse in Zurich,
says the SNB will have to cope with its quandary for the
foreseeable future.  “If the tensions in the euro area persist and investors
keep up pressure on the franc, the SNB will continue to face the
problem as to how to manage its rising foreign currency cash
holdings for quite a while,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  