-- Solyndra Exit Plan Should Disclose Tax Breaks, U.S. Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-08-28T23:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/solyndra-exit-plan-should-disclose-tax-breaks-u-s-says.html
Solyndra LLC, the bankrupt solar-
panel maker that received a $535 million U.S. Energy Department
loan guarantee, should disclose the amount of tax breaks the
owners of Solyndra’s parent would get under a restructuring
plan, the federal government said.  The Energy Department and the  Internal Revenue Service 
objected to Solyndra’s proposed plan for exiting bankruptcy
protection, according to documents filed Aug. 24 in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Under the plan, Argonaut Ventures LLC and Madrone Partners
LP would benefit from net operating losses that would allow them
to avoid potentially “hundreds of millions” in future tax
liabilities at a company completely unrelated to Solyndra, the
government said in court papers.  Debra Grassgreen, a lawyer for Solyndra, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the objection.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. It was the first company to receive
a loan guarantee under Obama’s stimulus.  Argonaut Ventures, the investment arm of billionaire and
Obama fundraiser George Kaiser’s charitable organization, holds
almost 39 percent of Solyndra’s parent, 360 Degree Solar
Holdings Inc.  Retain NOLs  Solyndra is scheduled to seek court approval of its
disclosure statement, which describes the bankruptcy exit plan,
at a hearing Sept. 7.  Under the proposal, Solyndra would be liquidated while its
parent would be reorganized and its owners would retain their
equity interests, allowing them to keep the NOLs, according to
court documents.  360 Degree would hold tax attributes “consisting of more
than one-half-billion dollars in net operating losses,” the
government argued. Argonaut and Madrone could then use them to
reduce their tax liabilities “on income earned from other
sources completely unrelated to Solyndra,” permitting the firms
to avoid hundreds of millions of dollars in future income tax
liabilities, the U.S. said.  Solyndra, based in Fremont,  California , listed about $854.1
million in assets and about $867.1 million in debt in court
papers filed Oct. 31. It was raided by the U.S.  Federal Bureau 
of Investigation two days after seeking  bankruptcy protection .  New Notes  The government is also seeking more information regarding
notes that were issued as part of a February 2011 out-of-court
restructuring. Solyndra issued $187 million in tranche E notes,
which were exchanged for $175 million of its parent’s notes. The
U.S. said in court papers that Solyndra’s plan doesn’t explain
whether the notes “were canceled or voided or remain
outstanding debt obligations.”  The U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice Department  that
monitors bankruptcies, also objected to the bankruptcy plan in
court papers filed today, echoing the government’s demand for
more information on the tax breaks. The plan doesn’t provide any
information on the future operations, financial projections or
officers of 360 Degree either, the U.S. Trustee said  Solyndra’s plan doesn’t explain how 360 Degree’s owners can
keep their equity interest when its parent’s general unsecured
creditors aren’t being paid in full, a requirement for equity
holders to receive any recovery, according to the U.S. Trustee.  The proposal also violates bankruptcy rules by assuming
creditor classes that aren’t being paid in full are viewed as
having accepted the plan if they don’t vote on it, the U.S.
Trustee said.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  