-- Sony to Boost Research Spending on Cloud Computing, Displays
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-08-28T10:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/sony-to-boost-research-spending-on-cloud-computing-displays.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Japan ’s biggest exporter
of consumer electronics, plans to boost research-and-development
spending on cloud computing and display panels as it tries to
rebound from four straight losses spurred by slumping TV sales.  The company’s research efforts should focus more on
customer needs and not be so inward-looking, Shoji Nemoto, an
executive vice president in charge of technology strategy and
corporate research and development, said in a group interview in
Tokyo today. Sony also “won’t hesitate” to buy outside
technologies, including those that could benefit mobile devices,
Nemoto said.  The maker of Bravia TVs and Walkman music players has been
struggling to deliver a breakthrough hit product to win back
consumers flocking to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones and iPads, even as it
spent twice as much as Apple on development. Sony’s research
spending totaled $5.5 billion last fiscal year, while Cupertino,
California-based Apple spent $2.4 billion on its R&D operation,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “One of the problems is that Sony’s R&D spending hasn’t
really led to products, sales or profit,” said Kazuharu Miura,
a Tokyo-based  analyst  at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “Any
company would want to boost earnings from R&D, but it hasn’t
really worked well for Japanese manufacturers.”  Apple, Samsung  The impact of the Clie personal digital assistant -- which
lets users listen to music, play games and watch videos -- and
the Airboard portable TV, designed to watch movies downloaded
from the Internet, could have been greater if Sony were more
customer-focused, Nemoto said.  Sony shares fell 1.7 percent to close at 903 yen on the
 Tokyo  Stock Exchange, extending their loss this year to 35
percent.  Sony plans to spend 470 billion yen ($6 billion) in
research and development in the year ending March 31, an
increase of 8.4 percent from a year earlier, the company said
Aug. 2. That’s down from its 2007 peak of 544 billion yen,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The budget includes costs for designing and making trial
models, and those expenses need to be reduced given the severe
environment Sony is facing, Nemoto said. The company should
spend more money developing components and energy-related
products, he said.  Toyota, Panasonic  The maker of PlayStation game consoles was Japan’s fourth-
biggest R&D spender last fiscal year -- trailing Toyota Motor
Corp.,  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and Honda Motor Co. -- and 21st among
global listed companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  South Korea ’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s R&D spending
totaled $9 billion last year, ranking seventh globally.  Sony started a research unit with about 100 workers trying
to generate new businesses or a new “ecosystem,” Nemoto said.
The unit, convened in Tokyo last month, will narrow down more
than 100 ideas to five by year’s end, he said.  The team may expand overseas in the future, Nemoto said.  Sony’s imaging technologies, such as sensors, can be used
to “create something interesting” in mobile gadgets, Nemoto
said. The technologies can also be used to expand in security
cameras and medical devices, he said.  The 4K display technology, which can deliver more than four
times the resolution of full high-definition displays, will be
among Sony’s areas of focus, Nemoto said.  Image Sensors  In April, Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  listed three
areas of Sony’s electronics business that the company will focus
on: mobile devices, games and digital imaging. TVs weren’t on
his list.  The emphasis on three “core businesses” comes after Sony
lost 714 billion yen on TVs in the past eight years as demand
for its models slumped. Hirai is cutting 10,000 jobs this fiscal
year to turn around Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics after four consecutive years of  losses .  Sony will accelerate a move into health equipment by using
the edge its image sensors have over rivals, Hirai said at the
time.  The maker of Cyber-shot cameras is introducing new image
sensors in October known as complementary metal-oxide
semiconductors, or CMOS, that are smaller than its previous
models and will target orders from smartphone makers.  Nemoto, 56, was appointed head of technology strategy and
the digital imaging and solution units in March as part of
management changes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  