-- Sound Foreign Policy Romney’s Party Won’t Embrace
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-08-28T22:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/sound-foreign-policy-romney-s-party-won-t-embrace-clive-crook.html
Whatever you think of  Mitt Romney ’s
domestic policy, the Republican presidential nominee at least
has one. His foreign policy is, let’s say, unformed.  The  Republican National Convention  this week in Tampa,
 Florida , would have been a good moment to put that right, but
you can bet it won’t happen.  Of course,  Romney  is pro-Israel without qualification -- we
know that much. As for the rest, he looks forward to an
“American century” founded on American exceptionalism,
surpassing military strength and no more apologizing. Yet the
purpose of this pre-eminence, except as an end in itself, is
unclear. Is it mainly to subdue potential enemies and keep the
U.S. safe, or does Romney have ambitions to revive the
neoconservative project of reshaping the world?  Romney is happy to call a rival a rival. He has been blunt
about Russia, for instance. He has promised he won’t let  Iran 
get the bomb -- but so has President  Barack Obama . He says he’ll
declare  China  an illegal currency manipulator as soon as he
takes office -- but then what? Romney’s campaign says he has no
intention of immediately imposing tariffs and starting a trade
war. In that case, what’s the point?  The contrast between Romney’s vagueness on foreign policy
and the radicalism of his fiscal plans reflects his party’s new
priorities. He underscored the point by choosing U.S.
Representative Paul Ryan, a budget specialist and a foreign-
affairs blank slate, as his running mate. The U.S. failures in
Iraq and Afghanistan have made the Republicans diffident on
foreign policy: The subject is best avoided.  Obama’s Record  Coherence hasn’t been a hallmark of Obama’s foreign policy
either. But by killing  Osama bin Laden  and expanding the Bush
administration’s program of drone assassinations, the president
has taken “weak on national security” off the table, and for
electoral purposes that will do. For the next two months, there
aren’t really any other purposes. So long as Israel doesn’t
attack Iran and nothing else bad happens, neither side wants or
needs clarity on foreign policy.  Suppose Romney decided he would like some anyway. What
might an intelligent and distinctively Republican foreign policy
look like? It so happens that  Robert Zoellick , a foreign-affairs
veteran of previous Republican administrations, former head of
the  World Bank  and leader of Romney’s transition team for
national security, has set one out.  Zoellick gave a  lecture  last month in  London  titled,
“American Exceptionalism: Time for New Thinking on Economics
and Security.” It read to me like an application for the
position of secretary of State -- a rather persuasive one at
that -- and got less attention than it deserved.  His main theme was that a long tradition in U.S. foreign
policy links economics and security. It goes back to  Alexander Hamilton  and the words he drafted for  George Washington ’s
farewell address: The new nation must “cherish credit as a
means of strength and security.”  For the subsequent century and longer, growth through
commerce was an organizing principle of U.S. diplomacy, and from
time to time of military action. The U.S. often settled disputes
by buying territory: the Louisiana Purchase, Florida and
California, to name a few. “Admittedly,” Zoellick said, “in
some cases the use of force led to price discounts.”  The  North American Free Trade Agreement  and other recent
free-trade pacts with Latin America were anticipated by
Secretary of State Henry Clay in the 1820s. Commodore Matthew
Perry forced  Japan  to open its economy in 1854. Commerce was the
goal of policy toward China at the end of the 19th century.  Postwar Disconnect  According to many international-relations scholars,
Zoellick argued, the necessary connection between economics and
security was broken in the aftermath of World War II. Economics
was subordinated to security. Zoellick describes the
conventional view this way: In “a world of superpower
confrontation and containment, the traditional American foreign
policy aims of amity and commerce seemed quaint and outdated.
Military balance took precedence” and “economics became a
resource factor in the national security state.”  He argued that the break was less decisive than that, but
significant nonetheless. “Over time, the imperatives of the
 Cold War  led to a pragmatic convergence of the national-security
planners and the economic designers.”  Yet, he said, there is a crucial difference. “The
national-security focus on resources of the state treated
international economic issues as benefits to be exchanged to
support security aims: trade concessions, foreign assistance,
military aid -- not necessarily inclusive growth, good
governance, and open, competitive markets.”  In Zoellick’s view,  Ronald Reagan  and  Margaret Thatcher 
understood and revived the more equal partnership between
capitalism (at home and abroad) and security (national and
international). The collapse of Soviet communism vindicated
their vision. Now, though, the Great Recession has called global
capitalism into question all over again. The U.S. is recovering
slowly,  Europe  is still in dire trouble, emerging economies such
as India and China have seen their growth rates subside, and
political upheaval has thrown the prospects for North Africa and
the  Middle East  into doubt.  The U.S. must take the lead, Zoellick said, in attacking
these issues and can do so by affirming the fusion of economics
and security that has guided its strategy in the past. At home,
the next administration needs to focus on economic strength
through  fiscal prudence . Internationally, it should lead by
example in advancing global economic integration.  “Through twists and turns, the American experience has
demonstrated that its greatest asset is its openness -- to
ideas, goods, capital, people and change,” he said. “Every
country makes mistakes -- but open countries are quicker to
correct theirs -- and to forge ahead.”  Distinctively Republican  Well put, and a fine rubric for a distinctively Republican
approach to foreign economic policy. Why distinctively
Republican? Because of its emphasis on markets and capitalism,
forces for good that progressive Democrats feel constrained to
question, or at least to damn with faint praise.  It’s a sad commentary on today’s  Republican Party , however,
that a full-throated commitment to openness is something Romney
would find problematic. Openness to people, you might have
noticed, is hardly part of the Republican platform. These days
the party seems to be more eager to punish supposedly unfair
traders than to engage with foreigners or force U.S. producers
to raise their game and compete.  Here’s another sad commentary: Many Republicans  reacted
furiously  to Zoellick’s appointment to the transition team.
Apparently, he’s too moderate, too centrist, too pragmatic and
far too soft on  China  to be given a say -- let alone the top
foreign-policy job. It was pointed out that managing the
transition wasn’t the same as guiding or influencing policy. The
party’s hardliners weren’t much soothed.  So Romney will fight the election without a foreign policy.
The party prefers it that way, and the country doesn’t much
care.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 