-- South African GDP Growth Quickens as Mining Rebounds
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-08-28T11:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/south-african-gdp-growth-quickens-as-mining-rebounds.html
South Africa ’s economy, the largest
on the continent, expanded at a faster pace in the second
quarter as mining output rebounded after 11 months of
contracting.  Growth in  gross domestic product  accelerated to an
annualized 3.2 percent from 2.7 percent in the first three
months, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said today on its
website. The median estimate of 18 economists polled by
Bloomberg was 3.3 percent. Mining expanded an annualized 31.2
percent in the second quarter after contracting 16.8 percent in
the previous three months.  “It was all on this rebound in the mining production,”
 Kevin Lings , an economist at Stanlib Asset Management, said in
an interview from Johannesburg today. “Unfortunately, of
course, it’s likely to reverse in the third quarter with the
platinum industry now back under pressure.”  Mining output , which accounts for 8.8 percent of the
economy, expanded in May and June as platinum mines resumed
production after strikes. The boost to growth may be short-lived
after workers started a strike at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana complex
on Aug. 10 and the  European debt crisis  erodes demand for
exports. Manufacturing expanded less than forecast in June and
business confidence fell to the lowest level in 12 years in
July.  Jobless Rate  The rand was little changed at 8.4004 a dollar at 12:40
p.m. in Johannesburg from 8.3935 before the data was released.
The yield on the 6.75 percent bond due 2021 was down 1 basis
point to 6.82 percent.  The  Reserve Bank  cut the repurchase rate by 50 basis points
to 5 percent on July 19, the first move in 20 months, to bolster
the economy.  The National Treasury will probably lower its 2.7 percent
growth forecast for this year, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan 
said this month. The economy needs to expand 7 percent annually
through 2020 to create 5 million new jobs and cut the jobless
rate to 14 percent from 24.9 percent in the second quarter,
according to the government’s estimates.  The strike at Lonmin’s Marikana that has led to 44 deaths
this month will probably cut into output again, Lings and
 Nedbank Group Ltd.’s (NED)  chief economist Dennis Dykes said.  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s Rustenburg mine was shut for six weeks
in the first quarter. South Africa produces about 75 percent of
the world’s platinum.  While the overall economic growth figure is “not too
bad,” South Africa’s economy is still likely to perform worse
in the second half of the year, Dykes said in a phone interview.
“The underlying growth rate is not that great,” he said.  Manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
contracted an annualized 1 percent in the second quarter
compared with a 7.7 percent gain in the previous three months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  