-- Amla Lifts South Africa to Sweep of No. 1 Spots; Australia Wins
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-29T00:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/south-africa-beats-england-by-80-to-lead-one-day-cricket-ranking.html
Hashim Amla hit 150 as  South Africa 
beat England by 80 runs to take a 1-0 lead in their one-day
cricket series and move atop the world rankings.  Australia 
defeated Pakistan by four wickets in their opening match.  Morne Morkel, Wayne Parnell and Robin Peterson took two
wickets each in Southampton, England, last night as the home
team was bowled out for 207 chasing South Africa’s 287-5.  Amla, who became the first South African to score a triple
century during the Test series between the teams, struck his
career best one-day score off 124 balls, only losing his wicket
in the last over. Opener  Graeme Smith  hit 52.  “Things are falling into place but an element of fortune
has to go your way as well and I just try to stick to the
basics,” man of the match Amla said at the presentation
ceremony. “I’m enjoying the game and the team results have been
fantastic and that takes precedence.”  South Africa rises above England atop the  International
Cricket Council ’s  one-day rankings  with the victory, becoming
the first team to hold the No. 1 spot in all three formats of
the game at the same time.  England drops to third in the one-day rankings behind South
Africa and  India . South Africa won the Test series against
England 2-0 on Aug. 20 to replace it as No. 1 in the elite five-
day format. It also leads in the 20-over game.  England lost opening batsman  Alastair Cook  in the second
ball of its innings last night when he was bowled out by Lonwabo
Tsotsobe. Later, Parnell had Bresnan and Graeme Swann caught
behind in the space of three balls.  Ian Bell  and Samit Patel top scored with 45 each before
England was all out in the 41st of 50 overs. The opener of the
best-of-five series five days ago was abandoned because of rain.
Game three is scheduled in two days at the Oval in  London .  Clarke Top Scores  Australia, ranked No. 4 in the 50-over format, secured its
victory against Pakistan with 10 balls remaining at the Sharjah
Cricket Stadium in the United Arab Emirates.  Captain Michael Clarke top scored with 66 and George Bailey
hit an unbeaten 57 as Australia recovered from 87-4 after 25 of
50 overs chasing 199 to win. Fast bowler Mitchell Starc took 5-
42 to help dismiss Pakistan for 198.  The second of three matches is scheduled in two days in  Abu
Dhabi  before the Sept. 3 series finale in Sharjah. The teams
then travel to Dubai for a best-of-three Twenty20 contest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  