-- Spain Borrowing Costs Dip at Auction as Rajoy-Rompuy Meet
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-08-28T09:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/spain-borrowing-costs-dip-at-auction-before-rajoy-rompuy-meeting.html
Spain’s borrowing costs fell to the
lowest in three months at an auction today as Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  hosts European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy 
for the first in a series of meetings aimed at solving the
nation’s funding issues.  The Treasury sold 3.6 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of bills
today, more than the 3.5 billion euros sought. The yield for
three-month bills fell to 0.946 percent from 2.434 percent at
the last sale on July 24. That’s the  least paid  for three month
bills at auction since May 22. The rate on the six-month bills
fell to 2.026 percent from 3.691 percent last month.  Yields on Spanish and Italian bonds have plunged to three-
month lows on optimism the  European Central Bank  and the single
currency’s 17 members will agree on a plan to use short-dated
sovereign debt purchases to curb governments’ borrowing costs
and win them time to implement fiscal changes. Rajoy meets  Van
Rompuy  at 1 p.m. in Madrid.  Italy  also saw a decline in its funding costs today when it
sold 3.75 billion euros of zero-coupon and inflation-linked
bonds. The Treasury priced the zero-coupon bonds to yield 3.064
percent, down almost 2 percentage points from the last sale a
month ago.  “Good” Results  “Today’s test for Italian supply had relatively good
results,” Annalisa Piazza, fixed-income analyst at Newedge
Group in  London , wrote in a note to investors today. “More
supply will come on Thursday, though, and the auction will be
highly scrutinized as it will also show foreign accounts’
willingness to buy Italian paper.”  Italy sells 9 billion euros of six-month Treasury bills
tomorrow followed by 7.5 billion euros of bonds on Thursday,
including a 10-year security.  The yield on  Spain ’s benchmark  10-year bond yield  rose 2
basis points to 6.4 percent at 10:50 a.m. in Madrid, down from a
euro-era record of 7.75 percent on July 25. Italy’s 10-year
yield gained 4 basis points to 5.75 percent.  In the Spanish auction,  demand  was 3.35 times the amount
sold for the three-month securities, compared with 2.94 times in
July. The bid-to-cover ratio for the six-month bills was 2.17,
down from 3.02.  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said Aug.
24 that Rajoy has a full diplomatic agenda in the coming months
as “Spain is working so that mechanisms guaranteeing the euro’s
irreversibility are adopted.” Rajoy will meet French president
 Francois Hollande  on Aug. 30, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  on
Sept. 6, Finnish Premier Jyrki Katainen on Sept. 11 and Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  on Sept. 20-21.  “Definitive Solution”  “The aim is to reach a definitive solution to funding
problems,” Saenz de Santamaria said. Other agenda items include
a meeting with European Investment Bank President Werner Hoyer
on Sept. 20, attending the general assembly of the  United
Nations  between Sept. 24 and Sept. 26 and bilateral summit
meetings with France and Italy in October.  Spain is mulling a request for a second European bailout a
month after securing 100 billion euros in loans for its banks as
it waits for the ECB to detail its bond-buying plan. That may
not happen before  Germany ’s Constitutional Court rules Sept. 12
on the legality of Europe’s permanent bailout fund, two central
bank officials, who declined to be identified, said last week.  Spain is likely to request more aid in mid-September from
Europe’s temporary rescue-fund, the European Financial Stability
Facility, given its large bond redemptions in October and the
busy calendar for policy makers in September, London-based
economist Andrew Benito at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said last
week.  Spain returns to the market to sell bonds on Sept. 6, the
day the next ECB meeting is scheduled. The Treasury said Aug. 21
it had covered 72.7 percent of the medium and long-term debt it
plans to sell this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  