-- Spanish Recession Deepens as Austerity Damps Outlook: Economy
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-08-28T10:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/spanish-recession-deepens-as-austerity-undermines-outlook-1-.html
Spain ’s recession worsened in the
second quarter as the government’s austerity push to reduce the
euro area’s third-biggest  budget deficit  and a slump in consumer
spending offset growth in exports.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.4 percent from the previous
quarter, when it declined 0.3 percent, the Madrid-based National
Statistics Institute said today. That’s in line with an estimate
published July 30. Separately, Spain’s borrowing costs fell to
the lowest in three months at an auction today after the
nation’s bonds rallied this month on optimism the  European
Central Bank  will agree on a plan to help peripheral nations.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  last month gave up on his
forecast for a return to growth in 2013 as he unveiled budget
cuts that will expand austerity measures to a total of 15
percent of annual GDP by 2014. He is due to host European Union
President Herman Van Rompuy today for the first in a series of
meetings aimed at solving the nation’s funding issues.  “We fear that things are likely to get worse before they
get better,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Bank in
Amsterdam, who expects Spain will seek additional financial aid
as early as next month. “With much more fiscal austerity in the
pipeline and unemployment at astronomic highs, the risks are
clearly tilted toward a more protracted recession.”  Separate data today from the ECB showed that private-sector
deposits at Spanish banks fell by a record in July, dropping
74.2 billion euros ($93 billion), or 4.7 percent, to 1.51
trillion euros. That’s the biggest decline since at least 1997,
when the ECB’s data series started.  Domestic Demand  The Spanish GDP report showed that  consumer spending 
dropped 1 percent in the second quarter, investment dropped 3
percent and  government spending  declined 0.7 percent. Exports of
goods and services rose 1.6 percent. The economy grew 0.4
percent last year, less than the 0.7 percent initially stated,
the statistics agency said. The 2010 contraction was 0.3
percent, revised from 0.1 percent.  Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said it is
too early to tell whether the revision will impact the nation’s
deficit goals. He also said the economy is in its worst phase.  “We are in the moment of steepest fall and it will surely
continue in the second half of this year,” he said. “We will
see a correction starting in the first quarters of next year.”  Debt Auction  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bond  rose 2 basis
points to 6.41 percent as of 11:55 a.m. in Madrid. The yield has
fallen since reaching a record of 7.75 percent on July 25 after
ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the central bank may intervene
to curb governments’ borrowing costs and win them time to
implement fiscal changes.  The ECB said today that Draghi has canceled his trip to the
annual Jackson Hole economic symposium later this week due to
his busy workload.  Spain’s Treasury sold 3.6 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of
bills, more than the 3.5 billion euros sought. The yield for
three-month bills fell to 0.946 percent from 2.434 percent at
the last sale on July 24. That’s the least paid for three month
bills at auction since May 22. The rate on the six-month bills
fell to 2.026 percent from 3.691 percent last month.  Italy also saw its borrowing costs drop at an auction today
when it sold zero-coupon and inflation-linked bonds.  Public finance figures due Aug. 31 may show Spain is
struggling to cut its deficit to 6.3 percent of GDP this year
and reach the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP in 2014. Economists
forecast that the economy will shrink 1.6 percent this year and
0.9 percent in 2013 according to the median forecast of 30
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Euro-Area Lending  In the euro area, the ECB said  lending  to households and
companies in the 17-nation currency zone increased for the first
time in three months in July. Loans to the private sector rose
0.1 percent from a year earlier after dropping an annual 0.2
percent in June. Lending increased 0.3 percent from June, the
first gain since January.  In  Asia ,  Japan ’s government downgraded its assessment of
the economy for the first time in 10 months, citing risks
including a “further slowing down of overseas economies and
sharp fluctuations in the financial and capital markets.” The
Cabinet Office cut its view on personal consumption, home-
building, exports, imports and industrial production, while
raising its assessment of the labor market in a monthly report
released in  Tokyo .  Australian Home Sales  Australian sales of newly built homes dropped to the
second-lowest level on record in July, undermining the central
bank’s view that interest-rate cuts were helping stabilize the
housing market. Sales fell 5.6 percent from June, when they
gained 2.8 percent, the Housing Industry Association said in
Canberra, citing a survey of builders.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  cut the benchmark borrowing
cost by 50 basis points late last year and a further 75 points
in May and June as inflation remained contained and the savings
rate stayed above 9 percent. At 3.5 percent, the rate is still
the highest among major developed economies.  Confidence among  U.S. consumers  probably rose this month,
economists said before a report later today. The Conference
Board’s index increased to 66 from 65.9 in July, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of housing prices in 20 U.S. cities was probably
little changed in June from a year earlier, the first time since
September 2010 that it hasn’t shown a significant decline,
according to a separate survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid   at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  