-- Spurs Have Lloris Bid Accepted, Target Dembele: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-28T06:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/spurs-have-lloris-bid-accepted-target-dembele-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Lloris Fee Agreed  Tottenham Hotspur had a 16 million-euro ($20 million) offer
for France goalkeeper Hugo Lloris accepted by Lyon and targeted
Fulham midfielder Moussa Dembele to reinforce the midfield
following the sale of Luka Modric, the  Guardian reported .  Spurs are still pursuing Shakhtar Donetsk’s attacking
midfielder Willian having had an 11 million-pound ($17.3
million) bid rejected, the Guardian said. The London club is
continuing to explore deals for Rennes midfielder Yann M’Vila
and Internacional striker Leandro Damiao, the paper added.  Sturridge Sale  Liverpool wants to sign Chelsea striker  Daniel Sturridge 
and will sell midfielders  Charlie Adam  and  Stewart Downing  to
raise the 15 million-pound fee, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Reds could also let Andy Carroll go this week, with
Newcastle and West Ham still interested in a loan deal for the
England striker that may lead to a permanent transfer, the
newspaper added.  25 Million-Pound Fee  Chelsea wants 25 million pounds for Sturridge, who hasn’t
started in any of the Blues’ three Premier League games this
season, the  Sun reported .  Sturridge, 22, still has two years left on his contract and
is said to be unimpressed by the price tag as he feels it may
end any prospect of him moving on, the Sun added.  Hail Cesar  Queens Park Rangers are set to sign Inter Milan goalkeeper
Julio Cesar to replace Rob Green, the  Daily Mail reported .  The acquisition of the Brazilian goalie, who has won the
 Champions League  and five Serie A titles with Inter, may be
confirmed as early as tomorrow, the Mail said.  Chevy Ban  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  banned the team’s
young players from driving  Chevrolet  sports cars provided by
club sponsor  General Motors Co. (GM) , the  Mail reported .  Ferguson decreed that no player under the age of 23 should
be allowed to order a luxury sports model after Chevrolet
offered United’s first-team squad a choice of cars including
Corvettes, the Mail added.  Rooney Unwanted  Wayne Rooney  isn’t wanted by Europe’s big clubs, leaving
Manchester City as the only team able to afford him should
United decide to sell the 26-year-old forward, the  Sun reported .  United would want 50 million pounds for Rooney, who was
dropped for its first home game of the season following a poor
performance at Everton, the newspaper said.  City Targets  Premier League champion City wants to sign a ball-playing
central defender and will make a final attempt to persuade Roma
to sell midfielder Daniele De Rossi before the transfer window
closes on Aug. 31, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  