-- Strategic Oil Reserve Is for Emergencies, Not Elections
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-28T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/strategic-oil-reserve-is-for-emergencies-and-not-elections-view.html
There are few things a U.S.
president hates more than gasoline at $4 a gallon, especially
with an election little more than two months away.  This might explain why President  Barack Obama ’s
administration is toying with the idea of releasing oil from the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve, an underground reservoir that can
store 727 million barrels of crude oil in salt caverns in Texas
and  Louisiana . Gasoline  prices  have  risen  to about $3.75, up 40
cents in the past two months, near the electoral trouble zone.  The causes of the rise are varied. Economic sanctions on
 Iran  have reduced world oil supplies, providing one rationale
floated this month by the White House for dipping into the
reserve. An explosion at a Venezuelan  oil refinery  provided
another before  Hurricane Isaac  came along to underscore the
point. As of Tuesday afternoon, Isaac had temporarily closed
refineries representing 6.7 percent of U.S. production.  The reserve is supposed to be used only in the event of a
“severe energy supply interruption” or “domestic or
international energy supply shortages of significant scope or
duration.” None of the current disruptions meet either standard.
Even the  International Energy Agency , which helps manage global
energy supplies and usage, said there is no  need  to tap crude
reserves at this point.  Little Effect  A release would probably be ineffective in any event. The
U.S. sold 30 million barrels from the stockpile in mid-2011 to
offset global disruptions amid the ouster of  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi. Gasoline prices retreated after that release, which was
coordinated with the 27 other nations in the IEA. But the price
at the pump declined by only 2 percent, for just a week, before
rising again.  Gasoline prices are a tempting target for presidential
intervention because so many other economic indicators are
stalled or going in the wrong direction. Unemployment remains
stuck at more than 8 percent, economic growth this year will
probably be a dispiriting 2 percent and housing continues to be
the patient that won’t get well. More discouraging news arrived
Tuesday:  Consumer confidence  in August had the biggest decline
in 10 months.  Obama is understandably concerned that Republicans will use
higher gasoline prices as another cudgel with which to batter
him at their party’s convention this week. That’s politics. The
truth is, no president can do much in the short run about
gasoline prices, which rise and fall largely based on global
supply and demand. Exploiting the nation’s emergency oil
reserves won’t alter that fact. We hope Obama takes his lumps
and sits tight.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the need for disclosure in
 natural-gas drilling ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Mitt Romney’s odd
sense of humor ; Clive Crook on the  foreign policy Romney won’t
adopt ; Jonathan Mahler on how the Red Sox and Dodgers  ended a
baseball era ; John Paul Rollert on  Paul Ryan ,  the salesman who
never takes no  for an answer.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 