-- Stress Tests, Swaps Rules, IPO Rules, CFPB: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-08-28T11:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/stress-tests-swaps-rules-ipo-rules-cfpb-compliance.html
U.S. banks with more than $10
billion in assets may get more time to institute internal stress
testing required by the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. banking regulators
said yesterday.  The regulators proposed rules in December and January to
require the big banks -- holding companies under the Federal
Reserve and national banks under the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency -- to start self-testing their portfolios
against adverse scenarios annually. The proposals, which
initially called for banks to conduct tests this year, may be
revised with a September 2013 deadline, the regulators said in
coordinated statements.  The extension would apply to banks between $10 billion and
$50 billion in assets, according to the Fed, OCC and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. The OCC said in its  statement  yesterday
that banks with more than $50 billion may still have to run
tests this year, with the agency reserving the right to let them
“delay implementation on a case-by-case basis where
warranted.”  Dodd-Frank, the 2010 regulatory overhaul, instituted the
tests after the 2008 credit crisis in order to ensure banks were
stable enough to withstand a future calamity. The final timeline
for implementing the stress tests will be included in the rules
eventually adopted by each agency.  In a separate stress-test requirement from Dodd-Frank, the
Fed has conducted its own annual tests, reporting the first
results in March. The Fed found 15 of the 19 largest U.S. banks,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Wells Fargo & Co., could maintain adequate capital levels in a
recession scenario in which they kept paying dividends and
buying back stock.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Swaps Rule May Lead to Regulatory Conflict, Say U.K., EU  U.K. and European financial regulators warned their U.S.
counterparts that a rule on trading swaps outside the U.S. could
conflict with laws elsewhere, according to letters sent to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Rules defining U.S. entities in the trades are overly broad
and could lead to regulatory overlaps, officials with the
European Commission and the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority
said in letters dated Aug. 24.  “This will lead to duplication of laws and to potentially
irreconcilable conflicts of laws for market operators,” said
 Jonathan Faull , the European Commission’s director general for
financial services. “EU and U.S. firms could face permanent
legal uncertainty if this issue is not resolved.”  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission have been
writing regulations for the $648 trillion swaps market required
by the Dodd-Frank Act after largely unregulated trades helped
fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The law aims to have most swaps
guaranteed at clearinghouses and traded on open venues. Banks
have lobbied against automatically applying the rules to
overseas operations, saying it would hurt their competitiveness.  CFTC members proposed interpretive guidance in June
allowing for so-called substituted compliance for branches,
subsidiaries and other overseas affiliates of U.S. banks when
foreign jurisdictions have comparable rules. That move is
appreciated but insufficient, both letters said.  The European regulators want U.S. rules to give more
consideration to other jurisdictions when they have equally
strong regulations. The CFTC is otherwise leaving the potential
for multiple systems of rules to be applied to the same
transaction, making it “economically and financially
unsustainable for U.S. and EU firms,” Faull said.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment on the letters.  SEC Staff May Seek Public Comment Over IPO Quiet Period Rules  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  has asked staff members to consider seeking public
comment on whether the agency should relax rules limiting firms’
communications before initial public offerings.  The SEC’s review of restrictions during the pre-IPO “quiet
period” follows enactment of a federal law directing the agency
to loosen limits on how closely held companies can raise
capital, Schapiro said in an Aug. 23 letter to House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee Chairman  Darrell Issa .  The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act, “has
made, and will continue to make, significant changes to the way
IPOs are conducted and the permissible communications in both
IPOs and unregistered offerings,” Schapiro wrote.  Issa, a California Republican, questioned IPO rules in a
letter to Schapiro after  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s share price declined
following its May 18 public offering, setting off claims that
institutional investors got advance word of a potential revenue
decline that retail investors weren’t privy to. Issa in his June
letter questioned whether conflicts of interest might be
interfering with the pricing of offerings.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Facebook’s lead underwriter, has been
faulted for improperly pricing the Menlo Park, California-based
social networking company at $38 a share. Shares have since
declined by about 50 percent, closing Friday at $19.41.  Schapiro’s response to Issa was first reported by the Wall
Street Journal.  Compliance Action  Julius Baer Says Employee Stole German Offshore Client Data  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the Swiss wealth manager, is
contacting German customers after an employee stole information
on their offshore bank accounts in Switzerland.  “We launched an internal investigation and we discovered a
case of data abuse,” Jan Vonder Muehll, a spokesman for the
Zurich-based bank, said yesterday by phone. “We are in contact
with potentially affected clients.”  The suspected data thief was fired by the company and
arrested, according to Vonder Muehll, who declined to give
further details of the theft. SonntagsZeitung first reported the
information theft.  Switzerland’s Office of the Attorney General is
investigating the data theft, Jacqueline Buhlmann, a spokeswoman
for the office, said in an e-mailed statement. The suspected
data thief is still being detained, she said.  For more, click here.  CFTC Sanctions Russian SMP Bank Over Wash Sales in Yen Options  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission sanctioned
Moscow-based SMP Bank over claims its employees conducted
transactions with themselves that could have disrupted prices in
Japanese Yen options contracts.  SMP agreed to pay $700,000 to settle the CFTC’s claims, and
Epaster Investments Ltd., a Nicosia, Cyprus-based investment
company that was used by SMP traders to execute two of the so-
called wash sales, will pay $280,000 to resolve the matter, the
agency said yesterday in a statement. In settling the claims,
SMP and Epaster didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  SMP employees knowingly executed trades in the March 2012
Japanese Yen options contracts listed on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange at prices higher than any bids and offers in the market
at the time, the CFTC said. In three instances SMP bought
contracts from itself and on two occasions the employees used
trading accounts at Epaster to carry out the transactions.  Wash sales, in which a party buys a contract from itself,
can alter the price of a contract if they are executed above or
below market rates. They are illegal when done intentionally to
manipulate prices.  A phone call and e-mail to SMP Bank after regular business
hours were not immediately answered.  In the Courts  Ghavami’s Rigged Bids Betrayed Municipal Issuers, U.S. Says  Ex- UBS AG (UBSN)  managing director Peter Ghavami and two former
colleagues lied and cheated to rig bids for city and state
finance deals, a federal prosecutor said in closing arguments at
their criminal trial.  Ghavami and former co-workers Gary Heinz and Michael Welty
defrauded municipal-bond issuers by manipulating the competitive
bidding process for investment transactions, the prosecutor,
John Van Lonkhuyzen, told jurors yesterday in federal court in
Manhattan.  States, cities and other issuers of tax-exempt municipal
bonds must use competitive bidding to select firms that will
invest proceeds of the securities, according to a six-count
indictment in the case. Ghavami and his co-defendants are
accused of circumventing that process.  From August 2001 to at least July 2002, the defendants
colluded with conspirators at banks and at least one brokerage
firm to learn about other bids before submission deadlines,
according to an indictment. They also conspired to commit wire
fraud from March 2001 to November 2004, prosecutors said.  UBS,  Bank of America Corp. , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and GE Funding Capital Market Services, a former
General Electric Co. unit, have paid more than $700 million to
settle U.S. claims over the scheme. As many as 13 individuals
have pleaded guilty to criminal charges.  Ghavami, a Belgian citizen, was co-head of the municipal
bond reinvestment and derivatives group at Zurich-based UBS from
about January 2001 to March 2004, with Heinz and Welty reporting
to him, according to prosecutors.  Ghavami’s attorney,  Charles Stillman , argued during his
closing argument that the government had “not come close” to
proving its case. Ghavami was a “diligent, successful employee
who carried out his work in good faith,” he said. Closing
arguments are scheduled to continue today.  During the trial, which began July 30 before U.S. District
Judge Kimba Wood, prosecutors sought to show that the defendants
rigged auctions by talking to competitors and by paying
kickbacks to brokerage firm CDR Financial Products Inc.  Ghavami and co-conspirators often attempted to deliberately
lose auctions rather than win them, according to the indictment.  Defense lawyer  Marc Mukasey , a lawyer for Heinz, told
jurors that there were “plenty of sound, legitimate, honest
business reasons,” for firms to bid on deals they didn’t want
to win.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  HSH Nordbank Sues Over $634 Million in Mortgage Securities  HSH Nordbank AG, a German regional lender bailed out during
the financial crisis, sued Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley over more than $634 million in residential mortgage-
backed securities.  HSH Nordbank accused Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, both
based in New York, of making “material misrepresentations and
omissions” about the underwriting standards used to issue
mortgage loans that were pooled together into the securities,
according to documents filed Aug. 24 in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan.  Goldman Sachs declined to comment on the lawsuit, Tiffany
Galvin, a company spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.
Lauren Onis, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on the lawsuit immediately in a telephone interview.  HSH Nordbank sued Goldman Sachs over $110 million in
mortgage securities and Morgan Stanley over $524 million of the
investments, according court papers.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  HSH Nordbank, based in Hamburg, is one of a group of
regional German lenders sued in state court in Manhattan over
mortgage-backed securities during the past year. Other banks
sued by HSH Nordbank include UBS AG and Barclays Plc.  The new cases are HSH Nordbank AG v. Morgan Stanley,
652988/2012, and HSH Nordbank AG v. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
652991/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County,
(Manhattan).  Express Scripts Wins Dismissal of Medco Acquisition Claims  Express Scripts  Inc. won dismissal of most of the legal
claims filed by groups of retail drug stores challenging its
$29.1 billion acquisition of Medco Health Solutions Inc.  The National Association of Chain Drug Stores, the National
Community Pharmacists Association and independent pharmacies
sued Express Scripts and Medco in March, claiming the pharmacy-
benefit managers’ merger would reduce competition and make fewer
services available to retail customers.  U.S. District Judge Cathy Bissoon in Pittsburgh yesterday
threw out the retailers claims made as buyers of national, full-
service benefit-management services, saying any injuries they’d
suffer from a loss of competition would be compensable with cash
while they’d sought only injunctive relief.  Bissoon provisionally dismissed other claims -- including
those the retailers said arose as potential competitors in
prescription benefits management business -- and gave the
plaintiffs until Sept. 10 to re-plead them.  Finally, the judge declined to toss retailer claims the
Express Scripts/Medco combination could choke off competition in
the dispensation of medicine requiring special handling, also
known as clinical specialty drugs.  Lisa Boylan, a spokeswoman for the plaintiff National
Association of Chain Drug Stores, didn’t immediately return a
telephone message left after regular business hours seeking
comment on the ruling.  The association’s attorney, Robert Robertson of Hogan
Lovells LLP in Washington, who argued the case for the
plaintiffs at the April hearing, declined to comment on the
ruling in an e-mail message.  Brian Henry , a spokesman for St. Louis-based Express
Scripts, declined to comment on the court’s decision.  The case is National Association of Drug Stores v.  Express
Scripts Inc. (ESRX) , 12cv395, U.S. District Court for the Western
District of Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  Rajat Gupta Insider-Trading Sentence Is Reset for Oct. 17  Ex-Goldman Sachs Group Inc. director  Rajat Gupta ’s
sentencing on securities fraud for leaking inside information to
fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam  was reset for Oct. 17, a day earlier
than previously set.  Gupta, 63, formerly managing partner of McKinsey & Co., was
convicted by a federal court jury in Manhattan on June 15 of
three counts of securities fraud and one count of conspiracy.
Prosecutors said Gupta, who sat on the board of New York-based
Goldman Sachs and Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , leaked
tips he learned from board meetings to Rajaratnam, who had also
been his business partner.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who presided over the
trial, originally set Gupta’s sentencing for Oct. 18. Rakoff, in
an order made public yesterday, said that date had been reset
with “the consent of the parties.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Comings and Goings  Consumer Bureau Names Acting Director for Its Rule-Writing Unit  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau named Kelly
Thompson Cochran, formerly a lawyer with Wilmer Cutler Pickering
Hale & Dorr LLP, to serve as the agency’s acting assistant
director for regulations.  Cochran, who worked as the bureau’s deputy assistant
director for regulations after joining from the Treasury
Department, will replace Leonard Chanin, who left last week to
join law firm Morrison & Foerster LLP. The consumer agency
announced Cochran’s appointment in a statement yesterday.  Stephen Van Meter, who previously was the assistant general
counsel for policy, will become deputy general counsel, the
bureau said in its statement. Meredith Fuchs became general
counsel of CFPB in June after Leonard Kennedy became an adviser
to consumer bureau Director  Richard Cordray .  The bureau also announced that Chris Lipsett will join from
WilmerHale to become senior counsel in Cordray’s office and
Delicia Reynolds Hand will serve as staff director for the
consumer advisory board and councils.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  