-- Subbarao Aims for Sub-5% Inflation as India’s Growth Weakens
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-08-29T01:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/subbarao-says-rbi-needs-to-reduce-inflation-to-5-or-lower-1-.html
India ’s central bank chief said
policy makers need to reduce the nation’s inflation rate by
about 2 percentage points, underscoring limited scope to address
weakening growth through interest-rate cuts.  “We need to bring it down to more acceptable levels of 5
percent or even less than 5 percent,”  Reserve Bank  of India
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said yesterday in a speech at  Cornell
University  in Ithaca,  New York . The benchmark  wholesale-price
index  rose 6.87 percent in July from a year earlier.  India’s price pressures, exacerbated by infrastructure
bottlenecks and a sliding currency, have kept the RBI from
lowering borrowing costs since April even as growth in  Asia ’s
third-largest economy careened to the second-slowest pace in at
least seven years. The RBI next meets to set rates Sept. 17.  “The current inflation trend clearly limits any scope of
monetary easing from RBI in the near term, even as growth
remains weak,” Deutsche Bank AG economists Taimur Baig and
 Kaushik Das  wrote in an Aug. 24 note. “It is now only up to the
fiscal authorities to take steps for reviving investor
confidence and growth.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has seen his economic-
liberalization agenda stymied by the government’s coalition
allies, with initiatives from allowing overseas companies into
multi-brand retailing to foreign investment in pensions frozen.  Rupee Drop  Investor disappointment has contributed to a 4.7 percent
slump in the rupee against the dollar this year, the second-
biggest drop in Asia, after Indonesia’s rupiah. The decline has
added to inflation pressures, causing inflation to average more
than 7 percent this year.  Subbarao left the benchmark  repurchase rate  unchanged in
July at 8 percent for a second meeting, refraining from joining
a wave of cuts in borrowing costs from China to Europe as the
global recovery struggles.  “To control inflation we need to keep  interest rates  high,
but to support growth we need to keep interest rates low,”
Subbarao said. The “challenge is how do you calibrate interest
rates.”  Food and energy costs have also added to escalating prices,
and in yesterday’s remarks Subbarao attributed this partly to
being a symptom of the nation’s increasing development.  Food Costs  India’s economic growth has fueled inflation in the price
of food, Subbarao said. Rising incomes among the poorest
citizens have prompted them to eat less grain and more protein
from goods like milk and meat, raising prices. With 1.2 billion
people, India can’t import food without causing a possible
increase in global food prices, he also said.  “Structural inflation is a problem of India’s success
story, specifically the growing income of the poorest
sections,” Subbarao said.  Indians haven’t been able to take advantage of the decline
in global commodity prices because the rupee has depreciated, he
said.  Oil prices  also have made inflation difficult to predict.
India imports 80 percent of its oil, he said.  “There are two opposing trends,” Subbarao said. “Oil
prices soften because of slow recovery and could firm up because
of quantitative easing,” or the purchase of bonds by central
banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Ithaca, New York at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net 
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  