-- Superyacht-Maker Ferretti Plans China Plant on Rising Wealth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-28T05:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/superyacht-maker-ferretti-plans-china-plant-on-rising-wealth.html
Ferretti Group, whose Riva unit made
boats for  Brigitte Bardot  and  Sean Connery , intends to open an
assembly plant in  China  as its new Chinese parent seeks to drive
up sales in the world’s most-populous country.  The Italian yachtmaker is considering plans for the
facility in Qingdao, Shandong province, Tan Xuguang, chairman of
the company and of its majority-owner Shandong Heavy Industry
Group-Weichai Group, told reporters in Beijing today. The plant
will customize vessels for the local market, he said.  Ferretti plans to boost sales in emerging markets led by
China, Brazil and  Russia , Tan said, as the Euro-zone debt crisis
saps demand in Europe. Shandong Heavy, China’s biggest maker of
bulldozers, agreed to buy 75 percent of the yachtmaker from
creditors in January for 178 million euros ($222 million).  The new ownership “will give us unbelievable access to
 emerging markets  such as China, where the potential is the
highest in the world,” Ferretti chief executive officer
Ferruccio Rossi said in Beijing. The company will also continue
to focus on Europe and the U.S., he said.  The boat-builder, which also makes Ferretti, Pershing and
Bertram brand yachts, will retain its existing management as
well as its headquarters and production facilities in Italy, the
two companies said in January. Its yachts can cost more than
$100 million.  January Deal  The yachtmaker’s bank liabilities have fallen to 116
million euros from 760 million euros following a restructuring,
Tan said. The company almost collapsed into bankruptcy in 2009
before creditors led by  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  agreed
to a debt-for-equity swap. RBS and Strategic Value Partners LLC
both own 12.5 percent stakes in Ferretti following the January
deal.  Ferretti may buy parts for its Chinese-made yachts from
suppliers in Guangdong and Fujian provinces as well as  Taiwan ,
provided they can meet quality standards, Tan said. Shandong
Heavy is controlled by the Shandong provincial government.
Qingdao is a major naval base and it was the host city for the
2008 Olympic sailing regatta.  Ferretti sold about 17 vessels in the country last year,
Tan said in January. The number of ultra-high-net-worth
households in China rose 20 percent in the period, according to
 Boston Consulting Group .  The Chinese company’s other units include bulldozer-maker
Shantui Construction Machinery Co. and Hong Kong-listed engine-
maker  Weichai Power Co. (2338)  The Chinese machinery maker is also in
talks about buying a 25 percent stake in German forklift maker
Kion Group GmbH from  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , two
people familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  