-- Tsvangirai Says Zimbabwe Draft Constitution Not Debatable
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2012-08-28T11:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/tsvangirai-says-zimbabwe-draft-constitution-not-debatable.html
Zimbabwean Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  rejected a bid by President Robert Mugabe’s party to
change the country’s draft constitution unilaterally and called
for the document to be put to a vote.  Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front
party led the country for almost three decades before being
forced by the 15-nation Southern African Development Community
to share power with Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change
and a splinter faction of that party, led by Welshman Ncube.
Under the SADC-brokered accord, the parties must draft a new
constitution, put it to a referendum and then hold elections.  “A new constitution is central to elections and to the
reform agenda in Zimbabwe, and if this process collapsed it will
spell doom to prospects of credible and free and fair
elections,” Tsvangirai told reporters in the capital Harare
today. “It would be suicidal for us to participate in these
elections without reforms.”  Zanu-PF removed dual citizenship from the draft
constitution, gave the president executive powers to dissolve
parliament, declare war, appoint judges without interview and
enjoy complete immunity, according to David Coltart, a senator
in Ncube’s party.  The changes have “nothing to do with what all the parties
have agreed,” Tsvangirai said. “It’s time people reached a
decision through a referendum.”  The power-sharing deal was approved after a series of
violent and disputed elections and a decade-long recession in
the southern African nation that drove millions of its citizens
into neighboring states in search of work.  Delay Planned  Two members of Zanu-PF’s top decision-making body,
including a Cabinet minister, said earlier this month that the
party planned to stall a referendum on the proposed constitution
because it believes it will lose the election. The officials
declined to be identified because the party’s strategy hasn’t
been made public.  Delays to the referendum may hinder an economic recovery,
with companies hesitant to invest in mining the world’s second-
biggest platinum and chrome reserves without knowing who will
rule the country. Mugabe’s party has threatened to nationalize
foreign-owned assets and is pushing for a law that requires
companies to sell 51 percent of their local assets to black
Zimbabweans.  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ,  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  and
 Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  own platinum mines in the country
while  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  owns a diamond mine.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Old
Mutual Plc (OML)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  also operate there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  