-- Sweden’s FSA Says Banks Can Lend More Amid Tougher Rules
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-08-29T08:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/swedish-fsa-says-banks-can-lend-more-as-tougher-rules-adopted.html
Sweden’s financial regulator said
the country’s banks can increase lending to households and
businesses even as the industry adopts some of the world’s
strictest regulatory standards.  “Swedish banks have adapted well to the new regulation,
they are well-capitalized and have access to funding, which
means they have the ability to continue increasing their lending
to households and companies,” Magnus Karlsson, an analyst at
the Swedish  Financial Supervisory Authority  in  Stockholm , said
in a phone interview yesterday. The pace of “household lending
growth is likely to remain on current levels, also in coming
quarters,” he said.   Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  SEB AB (SEBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  need to set aside 10 percent of their risk-
weighted assets in core Tier 1 capital from January, with the
ratio rising to 12 percent two years later. That compares with
Basel’s 7 percent goal for 2019. Sweden’s banks, which credit
default swaps show are among Europe’s safest, are able to fund
themselves at better rates than many of their peers, lowering
the cost of passing on credit to borrowers.  Household credit in  Sweden  grew  4.5 percent  in the second
quarter as corporate lending rose 3.9 percent, the FSA said
yesterday. Mortgage lending in the largest Nordic economy
increased an annual 4.8 percent.  Riksbank Ranking  That compares with the euro area’s 0.6 percent decline in
loans to non-financial companies in June, according to the FSA.
Mortgage lending rose only 0.8 percent in the bloc, it said.  In Sweden, credit growth has stabilized from rates as high
as 13 percent before the crisis, after stricter mortgage lending
rules capping loans at 85 percent of a property’s value were
introduced in 2010, the FSA said. Banks should stick to current
lending rates to avoid imbalances, Karlsson said.  Swedish bank shares outperformed a European benchmark index
for financial stocks today. Nordea rose 0.6 percent to 61.70
kronor as of 10:38 a.m. in Stockholm. SEB gained 0.9 percent,
Handelsbanken and Swedbank rose about 0.1 percent, compared with
a 0.5 percent loss in the 38-member Bloomberg index of European
financial companies.  At the end of last year, Swedbank and Handelsbanken were
the two best-capitalized lenders in Europe under  Basel II  in a
Riksbank ranking of 24 of the region’s largest banks, including
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  SEB was No. 4
and Nordea was seventh.  Profit Boost  Lending growth is helping boost profits at Swedish banks,
whose average net margin on mortgages rose to a 10-year high of
0.46 percentage point last quarter from 0.4 percentage point in
the first, according to the FSA. The regulator said margins
widened after funding costs declined more steeply than the rates
on mortgages.  At Swedbank, Sweden’s largest mortgage lender, net interest
income rose 11 percent to 5.25 billion kronor ($798 million) in
the second quarter. Net interest income at Handelsbanken, the
No. 2 mortgage lender in the Nordic country, jumped 16 percent
to 6.58 billion kronor in the period.  “It is good for the banks to be able to have growth,”
Karlsson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 