-- Swiss Stocks Post Biggest Drop in Five Weeks; Roche Slips
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-08-28T15:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/swiss-stocks-decline-roche-logitech-ubs-fall.html
Swiss stocks  declined the most in
five weeks, after two days of gains for the Swiss Market Index,
as the Spanish region of Catalonia sought a bailout and Japan
lowered a view of its economy for the first time in 10 months.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the world’s largest maker of
computer mice, dropped 1 percent.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  slipped 0.7
percent after the head of its pharmaceuticals division was named
as the new chief executive officer of rival AstraZeneca Plc.  UBS
AG (UBSN)  retreated 1.8 percent.  The  SMI (SMI)  fell 1.1 percent to 6,421.42 at the close of
trading in Zurich, the most since July 23. The equity benchmark
has still  risen 12 percent  from this year’s low on June 4 as
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to preserve
the euro. The Swiss Performance Index decreased 1 percent today.  “The global uncertainties and weakening of the global
economy are weighing on markets, like today’s news out of
Japan,” said Benno Galliker, a trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank
AG in Lucerne, Switzerland. “Investors don’t seem to want to
hold large equity positions before the upcoming central bank
meetings, in case of another disappointment. We may be seeing
some selling off before September, which is often the weakest
month of the year.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the SMI was 31
percent lower than the average of the last 30 days, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Catalonia said it will ask for 5 billion euros ($6.3
billion) of aid from the central government, becoming the second
Spanish region to tap a national rescue fund after the country’s
most-indebted area was shut out of financial markets.  Japanese Economy  Japan ’s government downgraded its assessment on personal
consumption, housebuilding, exports, imports and industrial
output in the world’s third-largest economy. It also lowered its
assessment of the global economy.  The Cabinet Office said that risks to Japan’s economy
include a “further slowing down of overseas economies and sharp
fluctuations in the financial and capital markets,” according
to a monthly report released in Tokyo today.  The ECB has considered lowering the discounts it applies to
asset-backed securities when treating them as collateral for
loans, according to three people familiar with the matter.  The Frankfurt-based lender has urged global banking
regulators to relax a draft liquidity rule on concern it may
worsen the region’s debt crisis by curtailing lending, according
to three people familiar with the talks.  Logitech fell 1 percent to 8.91 Swiss francs, extending
yesterday’s decline. A gauge of European technology shares
performed the worst of the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Roche, Novartis  Roche slipped 0.7 percent to 174.70 francs. AstraZeneca
said Pascal Soriot will join it from Roche on Oct. 1. The Swiss
drugmaker named Daniel O’Day as Soriot’s replacement.  Health-care companies pushed the SMI lower, with  Novartis
AG (NOVN)  declining 1.1 percent to 56.70 francs and Nobel Biocare
Holding AG losing 0.9 percent to 8.93 francs.  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, slipped 1.8 percent to
10.67 francs.  Swatch Group AG, the world’s largest watchmaker, dropped
1.6 percent to 395.50 francs. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the
owner of the Cartier brand, fell 1.8 percent to 58.90 francs.  Kuoni Reisen Holding AG (KUNN)  lost 2.5 percent to 236.20 francs
after Credit Suisse Group AG cut  Switzerland ’s largest travel
company to neutral, the equivalent of hold, from outperform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  