-- Resignation Shows Divisions Hindering Syria’s Opposition
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-08-28T23:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/syria-says-assad-part-of-the-solution-rules-out-resignation.html
The internal conflicts within the
political leadership of the Syrian opposition were highlighted
by the resignation of a prominent voice of the Syrian National
Council.  Bassma Kodmani, a Paris-based academic turned
revolutionary, quit the main umbrella organization of the Syrian
opposition citing divisions within the group that prevent it
from achieving common goals. She said she is “disappointed with
how the council has worked on several levels,” without offering
any details.  Her comments suggest that the exile-led SNC, which the U.S.
has worked with in to prepare for a political transition, may
not be able to forge a  united front  against the current Syrian
regime and lead the way to a democratic government.  “I decided to leave the council because of a difference of
views over how to move forward and because I thought I could be
more productive working on the outside,” Kodmani said in a
telephone interview. She said she will work with other groups,
mainly in humanitarian relief.  Meanwhile, Fayssal Mekdad,  Syria ’s deputy foreign minister,
said that keeping President Bashar al-Assad  was “the sovereign
will of the Syrian people.” Assad is part of the solution to
the country’s crisis and his resignation will never be discussed
with the opposition, Mekdad said in an interview during a summit
of the Non-Aligned Movement in Tehran yesterday.  His comments contrasted with remarks by Deputy Prime
Minister Qadri Jamil, who last week said Assad’s departure might
be discussed if there were talks with rebels. The opposition and
the U.S. say the president should leave office.  Refugee Tide  United Nations  efforts to end the 17-month conflict have
faltered as military monitors left the country last week and the
organization’s envoy,  Kofi Annan , this month resigned and
accused world powers of “finger-pointing and name-calling.”
The pullback has been accompanied by an upsurge of fighting,
with battles engulfing areas of the country’s two biggest
cities, Damascus and Aleppo.  The  United Nations  refugee agency warned yesterday that the
tide of Syrians leaving the country was rising. The number
reaching northern  Jordan  doubled to 10,000 in the week to Aug.
27, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said on its website.  At least 26 Jordanian security personnel were injured, one
of them in critical condition during clashes with Syrian
refugees protesting poor services inside Al-Zeaytar camp, state-
run Petra News Agency said yesterday. Jordan’s government
condemned what is described as an attack on its security forces
by Syrian refugees, Petra said, citing government spokesman
Sameeh Maayteh.  Aid Sought  Turkey  now hosts more than 80,000 refugees and has asked
the UN Security Council to discuss how the costs can be shared
more widely, Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  told reporters in
Ankara on Aug. 27.  “We’ll emphasize that from now on it shouldn’t just be
Syria’s neighbors -- Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon,  Iraq  -- that must
shoulder the burden, but the entire international community,”
he said.  Syrian security forces killed at least 142 people across
the country yesterday, Al Arabiya television reported, citing
Syrian Network for Human Rights.  A booby-trapped cab parked near a cemetery exploded during
a funeral procession in Jaramana near Damascus yesterday, the
state-run Sana news agency said. At least 12 people were killed
and 48 wounded in the blast, state television reported.  Iran ’s
Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi , meanwhile called on the Non-
Aligned Movement summit to consider the “restoration of peace
and tranquility in Syria as a main agenda” item, Iran’s Fars
news agency reported.  Mekdad praised Iran’s stance as “positive and excellent.”
He said the opposition has given a “negative response” to
negotiations and seeks to implement a “Zionist, U.S. and
Western solution.”  The Syrian uprising, which began as a peaceful protest
movement in March 2011, has defied regional and international
efforts to resolve it. More than 23,000 lives have been lost
during the unrest, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human
Rights  estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Dubai at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  