-- U.K.’s Greening Rejects Calls for New Heathrow Runway
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-08-28T10:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/u-k-s-greening-rejects-calls-for-new-heathrow-runway.html
The British government ruled out
building a new runway at  London ’s Heathrow airport in the face
of calls from Conservative Party lawmakers to abandon its
opposition.  “We don’t see the argument for a third runway,” Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told
reporters in London today. “We have set out a process and that
doesn’t include looking at a third runway.”  Tim Yeo , the chairman of Parliament’s Energy and Climate
Change Committee, used an article in today’s  Daily Telegraph 
newspaper to call on Cameron to decide whether he is a “man or
a mouse,” arguing that blocking a new runway at  Europe ’s
busiest hub would lead the U.K. to slide toward
“insignificance.”  Transport Secretary Justine Greening pointed to the
coalition agreement between Cameron’s Conservatives and their
Liberal Democrat partners, which rules out a third runway, and
said the opposition  Labour Party  is also against building one.
In any case, the proposed Heathrow runway would be too short for
the largest modern planes and she’ll shortly begin a
consultation on a long-term solution, with a new airport one
possibility, she said.  “The coalition agreement is very clear that we don’t
support a third runway,” Greening told BBC Radio 4’s “Today”
program. “We need to start the process of saying: if we are not
going to have a third runway, how do we make sure we have the
hub capacity our country needs?”  Government Tensions  Cameron is due to reorganize his Cabinet in the coming
weeks, according to a person familiar with his plans. That has
led to newspaper reports that he could move Greening, who
represents a district under Heathrow’s flight path and opposes a
third runway, away from the transport brief as a step toward
switching position on the plan.  Greening said today she hoped she’d remain in the post. She
declined to say whether she’d stay in the Cabinet in another job
if the runway were to go ahead, saying only that it would be
“difficult” for her.  The publication of the planned consultation document on the
future of London’s airports has already been delayed until later
this year, demonstrating the tensions within the government on
the issue.  Greening said a long-term solution could mean a new
airport, “or it possibly means airports working together.” In
July, a group of 39 Conservative lawmakers called for two new
runways to be built there to increase passenger capacity.
Housing Minister Grant Shapps told the Telegraph last week that
“all the options” need to be considered, while keeping in mind
that party’s 2010 election pledge to oppose the new runway.  ‘Deeply Frustrated’  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , whose British
Airways division has its hub at Heathrow, has said U.K. economic
growth depends on an expansion of the airport. Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. founder  Richard Branson  has also said he’s “deeply
frustrated” by opposition to expanding Heathrow.  The Liberal Democrats will vote at their annual conference
on Sept. 23 on a motion that would reject the building of any
new runways at Heathrow or the capital’s other main airports,
Gatwick and Stansted, and demand an independent study to find a
location for a hub. The motion also opposes Conservative London
Mayor  Boris Johnson ’s proposal to construct a new airport in the
Thames estuary.  As Cameron considers his options for reorganizing his
Cabinet, the  Guardian newspaper  published a poll showing nearly
half of voters saying he should move Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  from his job. ICM Ltd. interviewed a random
sample of 1,006 adults by telephone on Aug. 24-26. Of those
polled, 48 percent said Osborne should be replaced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  