-- U.S. Bank Earnings up 21% as Loan Losses Fall: FDIC
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-28T16:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/u-s-bank-earnings-increase-21-as-loan-losses-drop-fdic-says.html
U.S. banks had net income of $34.5
billion in the second quarter, increasing earnings 21 percent
over the year-earlier period on improved asset quality, the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  said.  Industry profits beat the prior year for a 12th straight
quarter, with 89 percent of banks reporting gains even as
earnings declined from $34.8 billion in the previous quarter,
the FDIC said today in its Quarterly Banking Profile. Lenders
set aside $14.2 billion for bad loans, and the $20.5 billion in
charge-offs was the lowest quarterly total in more than four
years.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  reported a 17 percent increase in second-quarter earnings last month, citing strength in mortgage banking
and a drop in expenses. In today’s report, the FDIC said
residential lending was up $16.6 billion in the quarter,
trailing the industry’s $48.9 billion gain from commercial and
industrial loans.  “Levels of troubled assets and troubled institutions
remain high, but they are continuing to improve,” FDIC Acting
Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  said in a briefing. “After declining
in the first quarter, loan balances once again expanded.”  In response to questions about  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
trading losses of at least $5.8 billion reported in July,
Gruenberg said they “certainly impacted the results” for the
industry and hurt what would have been “a stronger picture.”  Eight of the 10 largest banks put aside lower reserves for
loan losses, continuing a nine-quarter decline to a current
$86.7 billion, according to the report. That represents a 3.6
percent drop in reserves for the quarter as charge-offs outpaced
the biggest banks’ loss provisions, the agency said.  Expense Reduction  “There’s been a lot of focus on expense reduction,”  James Chessen , chief economist at the  American Bankers Association  in
 Washington , said in an interview. “The loan losses and reserves
are really the big drag now. They’re working those down.”  The pace of deposit growth also continued to slow, showing
deposits up $61.6 billion in the second quarter, less than the
$74.7 billion increase in the previous quarter and $186 billion
in the last quarter of 2011.  The number of lenders on FDIC’s confidential list of
“problem” banks -- those deemed to be at greater risk of
collapse -- fell for a fifth straight quarter to 732 from 772.
So far this year, 40 banks have failed -- trailing the 68
failures reached by the same point in 2011.  Insurance Fund  The deposit insurance fund, which protects customer
accounts of as much as $250,000 against  bank failures , rose to
$22.7 billion from $15.3 billion in the preceding quarter, the
FDIC said. The FDIC previously increased bank assessments to
replenish the fund, which fell into deficit as the agency
resolved hundreds of bank failures stemming from the subprime
mortgage crisis.  Investors have pushed the 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  up by
more than 19 percent so far this year.  Chessen said the FDIC report shows banks aren’t recording
“the kind of income the industry was earning pre-crisis, but
these are still very strong, consistent earnings.” He said the
report raises questions: “Will business loan demand stay solid?
When will the consumer come back?”  The business loans that have bolstered bank earnings could
be slowed by the lack of urgency created as  interest rates  show
no sign of climbing, Chessen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  