-- Ex-Fund Managers Chiasson, Newman Face More Fraud Charges
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/u-s-files-new-insider-charges-against-fund-manager-newman-1-.html
The U.S. filed new  securities-fraud 
charges against Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson, ex-Diamondback Capital Management LLC portfolio
manager  Todd Newman  and  New York  analyst Jon Horvath.  All three were charged in January by prosecutors in the
office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara with being part
of a “criminal club” of friends and co-workers who reaped
almost $62 million from  insider trading  in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  shares.  The men were initially charged with conspiracy and
securities fraud. The revised indictment filed yesterday adds
charges of securities fraud stemming from the actions of Danny Kuo, a former analyst at Whittier Trust Co., a South Pasadena,
California-based wealth-management company. Kuo, who was
arrested with the defendants in January, pleaded guilty in April
and agreed to cooperate with the government.  The revised indictment describes how the criminal club
worked and how fund managers passed insider tips to each other.
Prosecutors allege that Kuo knew an unnamed insider at  Nvidia
Corp. (NVDA)  and obtained information about the company’s financial
results, including revenues and gross margins, before quarterly
earnings announcements. Nvidia, based in  Santa Clara ,
 California , makes graphics processors.  Passed Tip  The U.S. said Kuo obtained information in advance of
Nvidia’s May 7, 2009, earnings announcement and then provided it
to Horvath, a former analyst at Sigma Capital Management LLC;
Jesse Tortora, formerly of Diamondback; and Spyridon “Sam”
Adondakis, a Level Global analyst.  Tortora then passed the nonpublic information about Nvidia
to Newman, who traded on the information, the government said.
Adondakis provided the information to Chiasson, prosecutors said
in the latest indictment.  Both Tortora and Adondakis have pleaded guilty and are
cooperating with the U.S.  When Kuo pleaded guilty in April, the government said he
obtained inside information about Nvidia and passed the
information to the group and an unnamed portfolio manager.  John Nathanson, a lawyer for Newman, declined to comment on
the new charge against his client.  Greg Morvillo, a lawyer for Chiasson, and Steve Peikin, a
lawyer for Horvath, didn’t return voice-mail messages yesterday
seeking comment on the charges.  Sigma is a division of SAC Capital Advisors LP. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC,
declined to comment on the superseding indictment.  The three men pleaded not guilty and face trial before U.S.
District Judge Richard Sullivan on Oct. 29. Securities fraud
carries a term of as long as 20 years in prison.  Prosecutors said in court after Chiasson’s arrest on Jan.
18, that he used inside information to win for his Level Global
fund what the U.S. said was a single “enormous bet” of $53
million on Dell trades.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 