-- U.S. Stocks Fall as Confidence Drops Before Fed Speech
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-28T20:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-before-confidence-data.html
U.S. stocks fell, following
yesterday’s drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as
investors watched economic reports ahead of Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s speech on the economy in three days.  KLA-Tencor Corp. (KLAC) , a maker of machinery used in the
production of semiconductors, slumped 2.5 percent after Deutsche
Bank AG cut its rating.  Lexmark International Inc. (LXK)  surged 14
percent after the printer maker said it plans to cut 1,700 jobs
and shut a factory in the  Philippines  as it explores a sale of
its inkjet technology.  H.J. Heinz Co. (HNZ)  advanced 1.7 percent after
reporting preliminary profit that topped analysts’ estimates.  The S&P 500 fell 0.1 percent to 1,409.30 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  dropped 21.68 points, or
0.2 percent, to 13,102.99. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in
the U.S. was 4.6 billion shares, or 26 percent below the three-
month average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It will be interesting to see what Bernanke says about
the economy,” said Liz Ann Sonders, the New York-based chief
investment strategist at Charles Schwab Corp., which has $1.82
trillion in client assets. “I wouldn’t expect to hear much
about easing other than: we’re going to keep the door open. The
U.S. may not be shining in an absolute sense but relative to the
rest of the world the trajectory is far more positive.”  Data today showed that confidence among U.S. consumers fell
in August by the most in 10 months as households grew more
pessimistic about the economic outlook.  Home prices  in 20 U.S.
cities climbed in June from a year earlier, the first gain in
almost two years, indicating the market that triggered the
recession is beginning to rebound.  Jackson Hole  Bernanke probably won’t provide specific plans for further
monetary action at the Fed Bank of Kansas City’s annual  Jackson
Hole  symposium this week, according to Pacific Investment
Management Co. Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian. The Fed
signaled last week it’s ready to take further steps to spur the
economy. Many policy makers said additional stimulus probably
will be needed soon unless the economy shows signs of a durable
pickup, according to minutes released Aug. 22 of the central
bank’s most recent meeting, on July 31-Aug. 1.  “The minutes were consequential and we don’t expect
Bernanke to take it further than what the minutes said,” El-
Erian, also the co-chief investment officer of the world’s
largest manager of bond funds, said on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “It’s highly probably that he
will outline the options that the Fed has available and the
commitment to do more if needed.”  Seven out of 10 groups in the  S&P 500  retreated as phone,
industrial and raw material shares had the biggest losses.
Energy shares rose the most among 10 groups.  Lower Rating  KLA-Tencor dropped 2.5 percent to $51.66. Deutsche Bank cut
the company’s recommendation to sell from hold. Spending by
foundries, companies that manufacture chips on a contract basis
for other electronics makers, may fall in 2013 from a year
earlier, according to a note to investors by Deutsche Bank
analyst Vishal Shah in New York.  Lexmark rallied 14 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$21.62. The inkjet manufacturing facilities in Cebu will be
closed by the end of 2015, Lexington, Kentucky-based Lexmark
said in a statement today. The company will cut 1,100
manufacturing positions and also reduce positions in research
and development, supply chain and support functions. The
reorganization will generate annual savings of $95 million.  H.J. Heinz added 1.7 percent to $57.41. The company’s full
results, which will be released tomorrow, will show “dynamic
growth in  emerging markets  as well as improved productivity,
higher margins and a favorable  tax rate ,” Chief Executive
Officer William R. Johnson said in a statement.  Market Share  Nike Inc. (NKE)  rose 2.5 percent to $98.87. The world’s largest
maker of sporting goods advanced after a Stifel Financial Corp.
analyst said it gained market share during back-to-school
shopping.  Molycorp Inc. (MCP)  added 13 percent to $10.75. The owner of the
largest rare-earth deposit outside of  China  climbed after ore
separation began at its Mountain Pass mine in  California .  Movado Group Inc. (MOV)  jumped 17 percent to $35.36 after raising
its profit forecast for this fiscal year as sales of its branded
watches gained.  Consumer stocks are worth buying because they lessen the
risks associated with lower earnings estimates and any revival
in market volatility, according to Gina Martin Adams, a Wells
Fargo & Co. strategist. The ratios of two S&P 500 gauges of
consumer-related shares to the index have retreated from this
year’s highs. Retailers, media companies and others in S&P’s
consumer-discretionary category peaked in May. Makers of food,
beverages and other consumer staples followed suit in July.  Market ‘Noise’  “U.S. consumers have managed to hold their own,”  Martin
Adams  wrote in a report. “Consumer stocks have followed along
the path of the consumer, offering stability amid the noise of
the broader markets.”  Both industry groups ought to carry more weight with
investors than they do within the S&P 500, according to the New
York-based strategist. Each was about 11 percent of the index’s
value as of yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings for consumer companies are poised to rise at a
relatively fast pace, the report said. She estimated that next
year’s profit for the staples category will climb 6.1 percent,
the biggest increase among the S&P 500’s 10 broadest industry
groups. Consumer-discretionary earnings may rise 4 percent,
surpassing a 3.3 percent growth estimate for the 500-stock
index, she wrote.  Consumer industries may be a haven from bigger U.S. stock
swings, Martin Adams wrote. In the past year, the staples index
moved 0.56 percent on average for each 1 percent change in the
 S&P 500 (SPX) , the report said. The consumer-discretionary gauge
matched the S&P 500’s moves, which resulted in a so-called beta
of 1. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
the VIX, advanced 22 percent through yesterday from a five-year
low on Aug. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  