-- U.S. Farm Income Seen Rising as Drought Spurs Higher Prices
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-08-28T16:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/u-s-farm-income-seen-rising-as-drought-spurs-higher-prices.html
The worst U.S. drought in more than
five decades is forecast to raise farm profits to a record
$122.2 billion this year as higher prices and insurance payments
outweigh crop losses from the dry conditions.  Income will rise 3.7 percent from a revised $117.9 billion
in 2011, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today in a
 report  on its website. The forecast is up from $91.7 billion in
February. The value of  crops  will rise 6.7 percent to $222.1
billion, an all-time high, while revenue from livestock sales
will decrease 0.1 percent to $165.8 billion, the USDA said.
Expenses such as  diesel fuel  and  animal feed  will increase 6
percent to $329.1 billion.  Pressured by the prospect of higher prices, corn futures
surged 58 percent since mid-June before today, soybeans were up
31 percent and wheat 41 percent. The drought may push food
inflation as high as 4 percent in 2012, the USDA said last week.
The department has declared  natural disasters  in more than 1,800
counties in 35 states, more than half of the country’s total,
mostly because of the dry, hot weather.  “Despite the severity of the 2012 drought, shortfalls in
marketing-year production do not necessarily have a detrimental
impact on sector-wide farm income,” the USDA said in the
report. “Shortages raise the prices farmers receive for crops
sold in calendar-year 2012, and crop insurance partially offsets
the impact of lower yields.”  Crop Insurance  Farm-related income, which includes government-backed crop
insurance, will total $34.5 billion, compared with $26.1 billion
last year and $19.9 billion estimated in February, the USDA
said.  Government-subsidized insurance payments, which at their
highest levels can cover 85 percent of anticipated revenue, may
help crop producers through this year, said Tabitha Craig, who
sells coverage for Young Enterprises in New Hartford,  Missouri .
The benefit is unavailable for livestock producers, who are
being forced to thin their herds to raise income and lower costs
from high-priced feed, Craig said.  If farmers don’t have crop insurance, “it’s going to be a
really bad year,” she said in an interview this month. For
livestock producers, “if you use any grain or any protein at
all, costs will be way, way up there.”  Farm Subsidies  Crop subsidies, not including insurance assistance, may
rise 6.3 percent this year to $11.1 billion, the USDA said. That
assumes that the benefits will continue beyond Sept. 30 when the
current farm bill expires. Both the Senate and the House
Agriculture Committee have approved bills that would eliminate
about $5 billion in annual subsidies paid directly to farmers
while boosting other support programs by smaller amounts.  Among farmer costs in 2012, feed, the biggest single
component of farm spending, is projected to increase 13 percent
to $61.8 billion, the largest increase in any category except
labor. Higher corn and hay expenses are forcing some ranchers to
sell animals for slaughter sooner than usual, creating a short-
term supply glut and a smaller herd in the long term, said
Claude Niemeyer, a cattle buyer at Callaway Livestock Center in
Kingdom City, Missouri, about 100 miles west of  St. Louis .  ‘Everything’s Higher’  “Everything’s so much higher this year,” Niemeyer said in
an interview this month. “Feed costs, the hay, it’s hard to
justify” keeping the animals, he said.  The USDA’s estimate for 2011 profit is a 20 percent upward
revision from February. The department changed its numbers after
determining that farmers sold more of that year’s crop during
the calendar at higher prices than expected while also spending
less on fertilizers, fuel and other costs than estimated, Mitch Morehart, an economist with the agency’s  Economic Research
Service , said in an interview.  Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said while “strong farm
income” will help many farmers and ranchers through the
drought, “it is important to remember that thousands of farm
families, particularly livestock and dairy producers, continue
to struggle.”  Vilsack repeated his call for Congress to pass a new farm
bill that will provide “more certainty” for agricultural
producers.  Today’s estimates will be revised in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  