-- Lufthansa Cabin Crew Union Plans Strike as Pay Talks Fail
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-08-28T12:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/lufthansa-cabin-crew-union-plans-strike-as-pay-talks-fail.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s main cabin
crew union is planning unlimited strikes and may walk off the
job as soon as tomorrow after wage negotiations at Europe’s
second-biggest airline broke down overnight.  The Unabhaengige Flugbegleiter Organisation halted talks
when Lufthansa failed to guarantee beyond next year that
employees won’t be transferred to cheaper contracts at a low-
cost airline, union head Nicoley Baublies told journalists at
 Frankfurt  airport. Lufthansa’s most recent offer would result in
less pay over time, he said, an estimate the carrier disputed.  Lufthansa, which employs 120,000 people worldwide, has
begun a 1.5 billion-euro ($1.9 billion) savings program dubbed
Score after completing a package that cut 1 billion euros from
expenses through 2011. The Cologne, Germany-based company has
already announced plans to scrap as many as 4,500 administrative
jobs and catering-division positions.  A walkout “will have a massive impact” on earnings,
though if the airline “can really cope with the strikes, they
need to get the proposals through,” Peter Oppitzhauser, a
Zurich-based analyst at  Credit Agricole  with an outperform
recommendation on Lufthansa stock, said by phone.  Based on analysts’ earnings estimates and effects of
previous strikes, each day of a work stoppage would potentially
cut full-year operating profit by 4 percent, Oppitzhauser said.  Stock Drops  Lufthansa  fell  as much as 2.5 percent to 9.67 euros and was
trading down 1.7 percent at 2:40 p.m. in Frankfurt. That pared
the stock’s gain this year to 6.1 percent.  UFO said Aug. 8 that 81 percent of its members voted in
favor of a walkout after earlier talks faltered. The union will
call “limited strikes” in the short term and lay out plans for
open-ended work stoppage in coming weeks, Baublies said today.
UFO will announce shorter-term walkouts some hours in advance,
he said.  The company will be able to act rapidly to offset any job
action, Peter Gerber, personnel chief at the main Lufthansa
passenger brand, said at a separate press conference.  A maximum 1,200 of Lufthansa’s 1,800 daily flights would be
affected, since some regional flights are operated by units such
as Air Dolomiti and Austrian Airlines, said Boris Ogursky, a
spokesman.  Union’s Demand  UFO is seeking a 5 percent pay raise backdated to the start
of this year, according to Dirk Vogelsang, the union’s chief
negotiator. Lufthansa’s proposal of a 1.5 percent annual
increase over several years would lead to a reduction in pay of
1,300 euros a month after inflation, Baublies said.  “When Lufthansa is concurrently paying its shareholders
dividends, and the management hasn’t made any salary-reduction
efforts, you can’t expect cabin crew to take a cut for three
years,” Vogelsang said.  The airline was ready to offer a raise totaling 3.5 percent
over time, and “all employees would have received more money
under the terms of our offer,” Gerber said.  “In the context of the difficult  competitive environment ,
which is particularly the case in  Europe , we expect a
contribution from all employees as we attempt to establish
ourselves on a competitive footing,” he said. “That means that
we had planned for a staggered delay in wage increases.”  Employee Transfers  Lufthansa paid a dividend of 25 cents a share for 2011,
when it posted a 13 million-euro loss. The company transferred
employees at Austrian Airlines to cheaper contracts at regional
unit Tyrolean Airways at the start of July as part of its
spending reduction strategy.  UFO’s discussions with Lufthansa, under way since last
year, have also failed to resolve a dispute over the carrier’s
demand that flight attendants assigned to its Berlin hub work 9
percent more hours than employees elsewhere for the same wages.
Frankfurt airport is the company’s main operating base.  The pay dispute contrasts with an agreement that the Ver.di
union reached with Lufthansa on Jan. 26 to secure a 3.5 percent
raise for 33,000 ground, cargo and technical employees.  About 19,400 flight attendants are affected by the wage
talks, according to UFO, which has declined to specify how many
members it has at the airline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  