-- Hungary Tests Investors With Rate Cut as Recession Deepens
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-08-29T10:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/hungary-tests-investors-with-rate-reduction-as-recession-deepens.html
Hungary ’s deepening recession
prompted the central bank to unexpectedly lower the European
Union’s highest  benchmark interest rate  as policy makers test
investors’ tolerance for lower borrowing costs, said economists
from  London  to Budapest.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  cut the two-week deposit rate to
6.75 from 7 percent percent yesterday, the first decrease since
April 2010. It will probably ease policy further this year as
concerns about the lack of economic growth outweigh accelerating
inflation, economists at Morgan Stanley,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,
Equilor Zrt., and Capital Economics Ltd. said.  Policy makers have been divided on when to start cutting
rates, with some arguing that the start of bailout talks opens
the way to lower rates to spur growth after the economy sank
into its second recession in four years. The non-executive
members of the Monetary Council probably overcame objections
about the inflation outlook and the pending bailout talks, said
Pasquale Diana, an economist at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in London.  “We think that the four external members have chosen to
use the leeway offered by the better risk environment, and it is
conceivable that the same members may vote to cut as long as
they feel it is warranted by the risk backdrop, regardless of
whether an IMF deal is struck or not,” Diana wrote in an e-mail
yesterday.  Forint Weakens  The forint weakened 0.7 percent to 282.98 per euro as of
12:13 p.m. in Budapest, after sliding the most in more than a
month yesterday. The currency has gained 11.8 percent this year,
the second-best performance among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as investors speculated that
Hungary will obtain an IMF bailout.  Forward-rate agreements used to wager on interest rates in
one month traded little changed at 6.72 percent, after dropping
16 basis points yesterday to the lowest since November. The FRAs
traded 19 basis points below the Budapest Interbank Offered
Rate, to which they settle. The spread widened to 44 basis
points yesterday, the biggest difference in almost three years.
A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The “relatively strong” weakening of the forint after the
rate decision “could warrant some cautiousness of the near-term
outlook for the forint as expectations of monetary easing are
built into the market,”  Lars Christensen , an economist at
Danske in Copenhagen, wrote in an e-mailed note.  The central bank will probably continue lowering interest
rates, while avoiding “aggressive” cuts, as the growth
situation “is very challenging,” according to Christensen.  GDP, Inflation  Hungary’s  economy  contracted 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months and shrank 1.2 percent
from the year-earlier period. The data show that the economy is
“technically” in recession and the sharp slowdown in external
demand hurts the growth outlook, according to the Monetary
Council.  Inflation, the fastest in the EU, accelerated to 5.8
percent in July from 5.6 percent in June, drifting further from
the central bank’s 3 percent target. The pace of consumer-price
increases may slow to the goal in 2014, central bank President
Andras Simor said last month.  The inflation figures “are hard to reconcile with today’s
decision,” Zsolt Kondrat, an economist at MKB Bank Zrt. in
Budapest, wrote in an e-mailed note. Yesterday’s “decision was
definitely a hazardous one that may pay off if everything goes
fine within and outside Hungary this autumn but, certainly, this
cannot be taken for granted.”  IMF Talks  Some members of the council earlier rejected calls for
lower rates because of the inflation outlook and pending the
bailout talks. The government is set to resume talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the EU to protect the economy
from euro-area contagion and to lower financing costs.  Rate setters “are pre-empting the IMF agreement, which had
previously been seen as a precondition for a rate cut,” Carolin Hecht, currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said
in an e-mail today. The forint may come under pressure if market
sentiment deteriorates, forcing the central bank to reverse the
rate cut, she wrote.  Seventeen of 18 economists in a Bloomberg poll said the
bank would leave rates unchanged while one forecast the cut. The
Monetary Council also considered leaving rates unchanged before
a “tight” decision, Simor said at a press conference
yesterday.  ‘Clear Message’  “The message is clear: the Monetary Council is rushing to
help out the economy that slipped into recession, while the
inflation target is being pushed into the background,” Gergely Gabler, analyst at Budapest-based brokerage Equilor, said in an
e-mail yesterday. “The central bank is seemingly testing the
markets to gauge how negatively they react.”  The  European Central Bank  this month kept its main  interest
rate  unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent and the deposit rate
at zero. Czech policy makers left their two-week repurchase at a
record-low 0.5 percent on Aug. 2, while their Polish colleagues,
who surprised the market with a quarter-point increase in May,
also kept the benchmark rate at 4.75 percent on July 4.  Hungary’s government reaching a bailout deal may prompt
rate-setters to cut borrowing costs to as low as 6.25 percent by
year-end, according to Gabler.  Further easing hinges on avoiding the potential “build-up
of second-round inflationary effects” and the continued
improvement of risk perceptions about the Hungarian economy, the
Monetary Council said in a statement.  ‘Sustained Weakness’  “The inflation picture has deteriorated since our last
inflation forecast, however the sustained weakness in the real
economy acted in the opposite direction,” Simor said at a news
conference in Budapest yesterday. “The improvement in risk
perception widened monetary policy’s room for maneuver, though
it’s obviously a question to what extent that can remain the
case in the future.”  The cost of insuring Hungarian debt against default for
five-years using credit-default swaps was 425 basis points,
compared with 465 basis points a month ago and a peak of 630
basis points on June 5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A rate cut may add momentum to the economy and would be
accepted by investors, Ferenc Gerhardt, a monetary-policy maker,
said in an Aug. 10 interview. Simor, speaking after last month’s
rate decision, argued for a “cautious policy stance” until the
outcome of bailout talks is known.  IMF and EU officials are focusing on untangling policies
that contributed to an economic contraction in the first two
quarters and the downgrade of Hungary’s credit to junk. The
country is seeking a credit line of about 15 billion euros
($18.8 billion) from the international lenders.  “We wouldn’t rule out a further one or two 25 basis point
rate cuts over the next few months but given the external
financing risks hanging over the economy, anything more than
this is unlikely without an IMF/EU deal in place.”  William Jackson , economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, wrote in
an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  