-- Hungary Unexpectedly Cuts Rate as Economy Enters Recession
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-08-28T14:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/hungary-unexpectedly-cuts-rate-as-economy-enters-recession-1-.html
Hungary’s central bank unexpectedly
lowered the European Union’s highest  benchmark interest rate  for
the first time in almost two and a half years after the economy
slipped into a recession.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  cut the two-week deposit rate by 25
basis points to 6.75 percent, the first decrease since April
2010. Seventeen economists in a Bloomberg poll said the bank
would leave rates unchanged while one forecast the cut. The
Monetary Council also considered leaving rates unchanged before
a “tight” decision, central bank President Andras Simor said.  “ Monetary policy  can only be eased to the extent that
supply shocks to the economy and the upward impact on prices of
government measures don’t lead to the build-up of second-round
inflationary effects and perceptions about the Hungarian economy
continue to improve,” the council said in a statement.  Policy makers have been divided on when to start easing
borrowing costs with some arguing that the start of bailout
talks opens the way to lower rates to spur growth after the
economy sank into its second recession in four years. Others
rejected the calls because of the inflation outlook and pending
the bailout talks.  ‘Further Easing’  “The National Bank of Hungary’s surprise decision to cut
interest rates today suggests that further easing could be on
the way,”  William Jackson , economist at Capital Economics Ltd.
in  London  wrote in an e-mail today. “Looking ahead, we suspect
that with today’s vote, the external Monetary Council members
are testing the waters; if there is no large sell-off in the
local markets, they may well push for a further 25 basis point
cut at the next meeting in September.”  The forint, which has gained 11.9 percent against the euro
this year as investors speculated that Hungary will obtain an
IMF bailout, weakened 1.4 percent to trade at 280.09 per euro
after the rate decision in Budapest.  Forward-rate agreements used to wager on interest rates in
one month fell 4 basis points to 6.84 percent, the lowest since
November. The FRAs traded 28 basis points below the Budapest
Interbank Offered Rate yesterday, the biggest spread in more
than two years and signaling expectations for a quarter-point
rate cut. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The  European Central Bank  this month kept its main  interest
rate  unchanged at a record-low 0.75 percent and the deposit rate
at zero. Czech policy makers left their two-week repurchase at a
record-low 0.5 percent on Aug. 2, while their Polish colleagues,
who surprised the market with a quarter-point increase in May,
also kept the benchmark rate at 4.75 percent on July 4.  ‘Inflation Deteriorated’  “The inflation picture has deteriorated since our last
inflation forecast, however the sustained weakness in the real
economy acted in the opposite direction,” Simor said at a news
conference in Budapest today. “The improvement in risk
perception widened monetary policy’s room for maneuver, though
it’s obviously a question to what extent that can remain the
case in the future.”  Hungary ’s economy contracted 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months and shrank 1.2 percent
from the year-earlier period. The data show that the economy is
“technically” in recession and the sharp slowdown in external
demand hurts the growth outlook, according to the Monetary
Council.  ‘Weak GDP’  A rate cut may add momentum to the economy and would be
accepted by investors, Ferenc Gerhardt, a monetary-policy maker
said in an Aug. 10 interview. Meanwhile, Simor, speaking after
last month’s rate decision, argued for a “cautious policy
stance” until the outcome of bailout talks is known.  “Weak second-quarter GDP data further boost the chance of
monetary easing, however, we only expect this at the end of
September due to accelerating inflation and pending IMF-EU
negotiations,” Istvan Horvath, director at the Budapest
investment management unit of  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , said in a note
yesterday. Hungary may lower borrowing costs in several steps
until the end of the year, Horvath wrote.  Inflation, the fastest in the EU, accelerated to 5.8
percent in July from 5.6 percent in June, drifting further from
the central bank’s 3 percent target. The pace of consumer-price
increases may slow to the goal in 2014, Simor said last month.  Bailout Talks  Hungary is set to resume talks with international lenders
on a credit line of about 15 billion euros ($18.8 billion) to
protect the economy from euro-area contagion and to lower
financing costs.  International Monetary Fund  and European Union
officials are focusing on untangling policies that contributed
to an economic contraction in the first two quarters and the
downgrade of Hungary’s credit to junk.  Hungary faces a “big” debate with the IMF on whether it
can finance payroll-tax cuts to protect jobs, Vas Nepe reported
today, citing Prime Minister  Viktor Orban .  Orban wants to win the “struggle” with the IMF and
economists who questioned whether the budget will be able to
provide enough funding for the jobs plan, he said, according to
the Szombathely, Hungary-based newspaper.  Hungary will only cooperate with multinational companies
that create local jobs and use Hungarian suppliers and raw
materials, not with those that “raze the market and destroy
small Hungarian companies,” Orban said in the interview.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt for
five years using credit-default swaps fell to 426 basis points
from this year’s high of 735 basis points on Jan. 5.  “While we still see 50 basis points in rate cuts this
year, we perceive some risks to the path priced in by the
market,” analysts at OTP Bank Nyrt. wrote in a research report
last week. Policy makers will “take a wait-and-see” stance
until the next Report on Inflation is published in September,
according to the note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  