-- United Investigates Network Failure Delaying 580 Flights
-- B y   T o r i   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-08-29T16:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/united-check-ins-slowed-as-airline-reservation-system-goes-down.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  is
working with its equipment suppliers to determine why backup
systems didn’t prevent a computer-network malfunction that
delayed 580 flights at the world’s largest airline.  Flights are running normally today following yesterday’s
failure, which prevented automated check-ins at airports and on
the airline’s website for about two hours, said Mary Ryan, a
spokeswoman. The glitch added to computer malfunctions in recent
months as the Chicago-based airline transitioned to new
passenger-service and aircraft preventive-maintenance systems.  “A piece of communication equipment in one of our data
centers failed and disabled communications with our airports and
website,” Ryan said in an e-mailed statement. “We have fully
redundant systems and we are working with the manufacturers to
determine why the backup equipment did not work as it was
supposed to.”  The carrier already has added extra checks after a computer
breakdown allowed a plane to take off weighing more than pilots
were led to believe.  The passenger-service and maintenance systems both were
used at Continental Airlines Inc. before that carrier merged
with former United parent UAL Corp. in 2010.  United reported technical issues in March after the Apollo
reservations system from the old United was switched over to
Continental’s Shares program.  The company struggled through at least three days of higher
call volumes after the meshing of the systems and websites
caused problems with some check-in kiosks and frequent-flier
mileage balances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tori Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  