-- Venezuela Refinery Burns Fourth Day After 48 Die in Blast
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-08-28T19:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/venezuelan-refinery-fire-spreads-and-delays-production-restart.html
Venezuelan firefighters put out the
last of three blazes at the country’s largest refinery following
an explosion four days ago that killed at least 48 people.  “We’re in a cooling stage now,” Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said today on state television. “We’re inspecting the
affected areas and checking our infrastructure to prepare for
restarting operations.”  Hercules cargo planes were used to help extinguish flames
on two storage tanks at the Amuay refinery last night, President  Hugo Chavez  said. A blaze at a third tank flared up at least
twice today before being contained.  Amuay, which has the capacity to process 645,000 barrels a
day, forms part of the Paraguana complex 240 miles west of
Caracas. Damage was limited to the storage tanks and Venezuela
has enough gasoline inventories to meet all commitments, Ramirez
said. The shutdown threatens supplies of refined petroleum
products as U.S. Gulf Coast plants halt operations with Tropical
Storm Isaac heading toward the region.  Paraguana General Manager Jesus Luongo said state-owned
Petroleos de Venezuela SA will “take its time” to guarantee a
safe restart of processing units by ensuring that  storage tanks 
that still contain naphtha fuel are sufficiently cooled.  A gas leak that formed a cloud at the refinery exploded at
1:10 a.m. on Aug. 25, sending a ball of flame into the air and
destroying a National Guard post and damaging about 500 homes.
Chavez, who faces elections in October, declared three days of
mourning and ordered an investigation.  Gasoline Inventories  Venezuela has stockpiles of 4 million barrels of gasoline
and other petroleum products and continues to produce 735,000
barrels of the motor fuel a day at plants, including nearby
Cardon, according to Ramirez. State-owned Petroleos de Venezuela
SA shipped five tankers of crude from Paraguana on Aug. 26, he
said at the time.  “It’s probably going to be far longer than their public
statements given the track record we’ve seen of maintenance at
PDVSA facilities over the last couple of years,”  Andy Lipow ,
president of Houston-based Lipow Oil Associates LLC, said by
phone. “I think it concerns the market that it could take a
long time given that it’s their largest refining complex.”  PDVSA is the sole owner and operator of the refinery. The
blast is among the world’s deadliest at an  oil refinery . Fifteen
workers were killed at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s  Texas  City refinery in 2005,
while more than 50 people died in a fire at Hindustan Petroleum
Corp.’s refinery in Visakhapatnam,  India , in 1997.  ‘Earthquake Like’  Amuay, Cardon and Bajo Grande form the Paraguana complex,
which has capacity of about 950,000 barrels a day. That’s second
in size to  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s Jamnagar refinery in
India, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. CRP, as the
complex is known, supplies 67 percent of gasoline to the local
market, according to PDVSA’s  website . Cardon and Amuay also
export refined products to the Caribbean and the U.S.  Stella Lugo, governor of Falcon state in western Venezuela,
described the early-morning blast as similar to an earthquake.
Lugo told Union Radio yesterday that the death toll had risen to
48 from a previous estimate of 39. There have been no other
official comments about a death toll since Aug. 26.  Gasoline for delivery in September, which rallied
yesterday, declined 2.89 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $3.1259 a
gallon at 3:28 p.m. in New York. BP and other companies
suspended some crude and gas operations in the  Gulf of Mexico .
The area is home to 23 percent of U.S. oil output and 44 percent
of refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Stand to Benefit  Refiners with Texas operations that are less exposed to
Isaac stand to benefit by exporting more product after the
Venezuela explosion, said  John Auers , senior vice president at
Turner Mason & Company, a Dallas-based energy consultant.  “On a sustainable basis, Venezuela hasn’t been able to
produce as much product as they used to,” Auers said by
telephone. “The U.S. refiners have taken their place. Now in a
short term, they certainly can step up and do even more.”  Shares in  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , based in  San Antonio , Texas,
have gained 6.4 percent in the past two days, while Marathon
Petroleum Corp., based in Findlay,  Ohio , has risen 2.3 percent.  The fire at Amuay, which opened in 1950, highlights the
risk to supplies of oil products from large, aging plants and
may lead to more exports from Asia to the U.S., according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Other major refinery fires elsewhere caused months of
delays before full operations resumed, Nilesh Banerjee, an
analyst at Goldman in Mumbai, said in a note e-mailed yesterday.  Venezuela, one of the 12 members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries and South America’s biggest crude
producer, had an average output of 2.7 million barrels of oil a
day last year, according to BP  statistics . Its main export
markets are the U.S. and  China .  Crude Exports  Venezuela was the fourth-largest source of crude for the
U.S. in May, after  Canada ,  Saudi Arabia  and  Mexico , at 821,000
barrels a day, based on data from the U.S. Energy Information
Agency. Venezuelan product imports from the U.S. nearly doubled
in the first five months of 2012 to 38,000 barrels a day from
23,000 in the year earlier period, according to the EIA. They
include gasoline, fuel additives and liquefied petroleum gas.  Cardon has closed units several times this year after
incidents. PDVSA had to halt production and evacuate workers
from its Petropiar heavy-crude upgrader last year after a gas
leak and a fire.  Jose Bodas, an oil union leader, told Globovision on Aug.
25 that PDVSA has ignored calls by workers to improve
“hazardous” working conditions at refineries.  Seven out of nine planned maintenance programs for the
Amuay refinery were postponed last year because of a lack of
materials, according to PDVSA’s 2011  annual report .  Maintenance Spending  Ramirez denied that PDVSA has failed to invest in
maintenance and said the company spent $6 billion in the past
five years on its refining circuit. Chavez also denied reports
that the leak of gas had begun hours before the explosion.  Repairs to the refinery once the fire is put out will take
three to five days if damage is confined to storage tanks,  James
Williams , an economist at WTRG, an energy-research firm in
London,  Arkansas , said by phone. Bringing the refinery back
online may expose faulty equipment that slows a full recovery in
production, leading Venezuela to compete to import gasoline that
otherwise would go to other countries, Williams said.  “You have to warm everything back up,” he said. “The
real problem is the refinery infrastructure which has been
poorly maintained.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  