-- Vestas Jumps to Two-Month High on Mitsubishi Heavy Talks
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2012-08-28T18:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/vestas-and-mitsubishi-heavy-talk-on-strategic-cooperation-1-.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  jumped to a
two-month high in Copenhagen trading after saying it’s in talks
with  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  on a possible “strategic
cooperation” that analysts at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and  Sydbank A/S (SYDB) 
said probably extends to offshore  wind turbines .  Should the talks lead to an agreement, Vestas will make a
statement “immediately thereafter,” the Aarhus, Denmark-based
company said late yesterday in a statement to the Copenhagen
Stock Exchange, without providing further information. The
shares rose 19 percent.  The announcement came a month after Vestas cut a deal with
banks that allowed it to draw credit and five days after it
announced 1,400 job cuts to add to 2,335 positions slashed in
January. The world’s biggest turbine maker is trying to return
to profit at the same time as it projects shipments to drop in
2013 due to uncertainty in the U.S. market.  “The place where Vestas’s need for cash and Mitsubishi’s
need for technology can meet is in offshore wind turbines,”
 Jacob Pedersen , an analyst in Aabenraa,  Denmark , at Sydbank said
today in a phone interview. “That could speed up the launch of
the V164 turbine, and both companies could benefit.”  Vestas has said it’s seeking a partner to help develop the
V164 7-megawatt offshore wind turbine, which it will only
manufacture to order. A prototype of the machine, its biggest
yet with blades that sweep a circle 164 meters (538 feet)
across, is scheduled for completion in 2014. The nacelle, the
unit holding the generating components, plus the blades alone
will weigh more than 500 tons combined.  Share Reaction  Lars Villadsen, an investor relations spokesman for Vestas,
declined today in a phone interview to comment on whether the
talks cover the offshore machine or Mitsubishi taking a
potential equity stake in the Danish company. Kenichi Nakamura,
a Mitsubishi Heavy spokesman, confirmed by phone that the
company is in talks with Vestas. He declined to elaborate.  Vestas  shares  rose 19 percent to 40.19 kroner in
Copenhagen, the highest since May 30. That cut the company’s
decline in the past year to 61 percent. Tokyo-based Mitsubishi,
which posted fiscal first-quarter net income of 18.9 billion yen
($241 million) on July 31, fell 2.1 percent to 329 yen.  Patrik Setterberg, an analyst at Nordea, also said
collaboration on offshore wind is the most likely subject of the
discussions between Vestas and Mitsubishi Heavy.  “It’s most likely that this dialog has been initiated due
to the fact that Vestas has been looking for a partner for the
V-164 turbine,” Setterberg said today, describing Mitsubishi as
a “suitable fit.”  Off Fukushima Coast  Mitsubishi Heavy is among developers erecting a 16-megawatt
pilot floating wind plant off the Fukushima coast. Three
turbines are due to be installed by March 2016, with plans to
expand capacity to 1,000 megawatts in the area, according to
 Japan ’s trade ministry, which has set aside as much as 12.5
billion yen ($159 million) to fund the early part of the study.  In a note to investors, Setterberg said two other
possibilities include Mitsubishi taking minority ownership in
Vestas, or the two companies forming a joint venture.  Vestas Chairman Bert Nordberg told the Danish newspaper
Berlingske Business last week that he’s seeking a single major
shareholder to take a stake of up to 20 percent in the
turbinemaker. Speculation that Vestas may be an acquisition
target has mounted since a Sunday Times report on July 1 said
the company was considering putting itself up for sale after
starting debt restructuring talks with lenders.  Vestas on July 31 said its banks agreed to allow it to draw
on credit lines and defer a test of whether the turbine maker is
in breach of its debt covenants.  U.S. Market  “This looks like an attempt from Vestas to get cash
investments so they don’t have to go to the bank again,” Martin Prozesky, a London-based analyst at  Sanford Bernstein , said
today by phone. “For Mitsubishi, it could be a chance to re-
enter the market in the U.S. by teaming up with Vestas. There
could also be technology sharing arrangements involved.”  Mitsubishi has built a factory to make nacelles in  Fort
Smith ,  Arkansas , that has yet to begin production, Hideo Ikuno,
a spokesman for Mitsubishi Heavy said today. He also said
Mitsubishi Heavy’s turbine blade factory in  Mexico  suspended
operations, though he could not immediately confirm when.  A federal jury in  Dallas  told Mitsubishi Heavy on March 8
to pay  General Electric Co. (GE)  $170 million for infringing a patent
on a way to keep turbines connected to utility grids during
voltage fluctuations without sustaining damage. While Mitsubishi
Heavy is challenging that decision, the litigation led to a
drop-off in production, the company has said.  Japanese Push  Any partnership between Vestas and Mitsubishi Heavy
coincides with a push by Japan to encourage more development of
renewable sources of power.  Japan’s government in July introduced an incentive program
to promote investments in clean energy. The so-called feed-in
tariff for wind is 23.1 yen per kilowatt-hour for 20 years,
almost double the market rate for industrial users. Feed-in
tariffs require utilities to pay above-market rates to producers
of clean energy with the added costs passed to consumers.  Japan’s trade ministry has raised funding for offshore wind
power development, mainly for fixed turbines, to 5.2 billion yen
this year from 200 million yen in 2008.  -- With assistance by Kiyotaka Matsuda in  Tokyo , Stefan Nicola
in Berlin and Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco . Editors:  Todd
White , Stephen Cunningham  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 