-- Wachtell, Sullivan & Cromwell, Cravath: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-08-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/wachtell-sullivan-cromwell-cravath-sidley-business-of-law.html
M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  agreed to buy Hudson
City Bancorp for about $3.7 billion in the banking industry’s
biggest takeover this year as it seeks to expand in New Jersey.  Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is serving as legal adviser
to M&T Bank Corp. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP advised Hudson.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by corporate partners Edward
D. Herlihy and Lawrence S. Makow. Additional partners on the
deal included: Richard K. Kim, corporate; Jeannemarie O’Brien,
executive compensation and benefits; Joshua M. Holmes, tax.  Sullivan & Cromwell’s lawyers were led by Senior Chairman
H. Rodgin Cohen and financial institutions partner C. Andrew
Gerlach. Partner Matthew Friestedt advised on executive
compensation and benefits matters and partner David Spitzer
advised on tax matters.  Kirkland & Ellis LLP represented Evercore Partners, as
financial adviser to M&T Bank Corp. The Kirkland team included
partners Thomas Christopher and Claire Sheng.  Under terms of the agreement, each Hudson City shareholder
will receive 0.08403 of an M&T share in the form of either M&T
stock or cash, the companies said yesterday in a statement. The
deal values Hudson City about 12 percent higher than the
company’s closing price on the Nasdaq Stock Market on Aug. 24.  M&T will gain 135 branches, including 97 in  New Jersey ,
becoming the fourth-largest lender in the state by deposits. The
Buffalo, New York-based company will add $25 billion in deposits
and $28 billion in loans, according to the statement. The
acquisition, which includes branches in  New York  and
 Connecticut , is the biggest takeover of a  U.S. bank  announced in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Cravath Advises Hertz on $2.6 Billion Deal for Dollar Thrifty  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , after more than half a decade
of trying, struck a deal to buy  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group
Inc. (DTG)  for about $2.6 billion in cash and secure its place as the
No. 2 player in the U.S. market.  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, Debevoise & Plimpton LLP and
Jones Day LLP acted as legal advisers to Hertz, which was
advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Bank of America Corp. and
Deutsche Bank AG.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  acted as
legal adviser to  Dollar Thrifty , while JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Goldman, Sachs & Co. gave the company financial advice.  The Cravath team was led by New York partner Scott A. Barshay, head of the firm’s corporate department.  The Debevoise team was led by New York corporate partner
John M. Allen and includes partners David A. Brittenham, Gary M. Friedman, Jonathan E. Levitsky and Pierre Maugue.  The Jones Day team was led by Washington antitrust partner
Joe Sims. It also included Washington antitrust and competition
partners Michael Knight and Ryan Thomas.  Leading the Cleary Gottlieb corporate team were New York
partners Paul Shim and Matthew Salerno. Washington partners
David Gelfand and Jeremy Calsyn are advising on antitrust
aspects. New York partner Janet Fisher is advising on
corporate/securities matters and partners Mitchell Lowenthal and
Jennifer Kennedy Park are advising on litigation matters.
Partner Jason Factor is advising on tax aspects.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing JPMorgan and
Goldman Sachs, which are financial advisers to Dollar Thrifty.
Corporate partner Brian Stadler is leading the firm’s team.  The $87.50-a-share offer represents an 8 percent premium to
Dollar Thrifty’s closing price of $81 on Aug. 24. It’s more than
double what Hertz offered a little more than two years ago.  Hertz’s acquisition of Dollar Thrifty may be the last
combination of major U.S. car rental companies that regulators
will tolerate, an analyst said. Hertz, Enterprise Holdings Inc.
and  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  together control about 75 percent of
the market, with Dollar Thrifty at 5 percent, according to a
February report from IBISWorld. No other competitor has more
than 1 percent market share, IBISWorld said.  Based on 29.8 million shares outstanding, Dollar Thrifty is
being acquired for an equity value of about $2.6 billion. It
will cost Hertz about $2.3 billion after considering almost $300
million in cash on Dollar Thrifty’s balance sheet at the end of
June, said Richard Broome, a Hertz spokesman. Dollar Thrifty
traded below $1 a share in March 2009.  For more, click here.  IBM to Buy Social-Business Company Kenexa for $1.3 Billion  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  agreed to buy  Kenexa
Corp. (KNXA)  for about $1.3 billion in cash, adding social-networking
services that help companies handle human resources and
recruiting.  Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP represented IBM in the
transaction, led by Scott A. Barshay, who also led on the Hertz
deal.  Pepper Hamilton LLP was Kenexa’s legal adviser while Lazard
Ltd served as financial adviser.  IBM will pay $46 a share for the Wayne, Pennsylvania-based
company, a 42 percent premium over the stock’s closing price on
Aug. 24. The deal is expected to be completed in the fourth
quarter, IBM said yesterday in a statement.  The purchase bolsters IBM’s business-analytics software,
which helps companies cull vast amounts of data to make
decisions and study trends. Kenexa works with more than 8,900
customers, including Starbucks Corp., General Electric Co. and
Boeing Co. Armonk, New York-based IBM  has spent  $16 billion on
30 analytics acquisitions in the past five years.  IBM will focus on analysis of the communication patterns
using Kenexa’s systems. The company has been moving into
software and analytics for income growth as hardware and
services become less profitable. Kenexa’s software helps
companies recruit new workers, communicate with employees about
goals and develop succession plans.  For more, click here.  Deltek Agrees to Be Acquired by Thoma Bravo for $1.1 Billion  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP advised  Deltek
Inc. (PROJ) , a provider of computer software for government
contractors, which agreed to be acquired by private-equity firm
Thoma Bravo LLC for $1.1 billion in cash. Kirkland & Ellis LLP
served as legal counsel for Thoma Bravo.  The Kirkland team includes Chicago-based partners Gerald Nowak and Theodore Peto.  Fried Frank corporate partners Abigail Bomba, Brian Mangino
and Richard Steinwurtzel, and litigation partner Peter Simmons
are advising Deltek.  Deltek stockholders will receive $13 a share, the companies
said yesterday in a statement. That’s 7.2 percent less than
Herndon, Virginia-based Deltek’s closing price on Aug. 24 and 24
percent more than on June 11, the day before the company shared
information on the sales process to potential buyers on a
confidential basis.  Thoma Bravo gains a  software company  used by 15,000
organizations and 2 million users in more than 80 countries. The
offer is 14.6 times Deltek’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization over the past 12 months as of June
30, Deltek said. The median Ebitda multiple of 85 acquisitions
of application-software in the past five years was about 11,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  New Mountain Capital LLC, Deltek’s largest shareholder,
approves of the transaction, according to the statement.  Thoma Bravo, with offices in  Chicago  and  San Francisco ,
manages almost $4 billion in equity, according to the statement.  For more, click here.  News  Consumer Bureau Names Acting Director for Its Rule-Writing Unit  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau named Kelly Thompson Cochran, formerly a lawyer with Wilmer Cutler Pickering
Hale & Dorr LLP, to serve as the agency’s acting assistant
director for regulations.  Cochran, who worked as the bureau’s deputy assistant
director for regulations after joining from the Treasury
Department, will replace Leonard Chanin, who left last week to
join law firm  Morrison & Foerster LLP . The consumer agency
announced Cochran’s appointment in a statement yesterday.  Stephen Van Meter will be deputy general counsel, having
previously been assistant general counsel for policy, the bureau
said in its statement. Meredith Fuchs became general counsel of
CFPB in June after Leonard Kennedy became an adviser to consumer
bureau Director  Richard Cordray .  The bureau also announced that Chris Lipsett will join from
Wilmer Hale to become senior counsel in Cordray’s office and
Delicia Reynolds Hand will serve as staff director for the
consumer advisory board and councils.  Moves  Sidley Hires Latham Partner to Head Global Technology Practice  Sidley Austin LLP hired Glenn G. Nash as a partner in the
Palo Alto office, where he will be global co-head of Sidley’s
technology transactions practice. He was previously at Latham &
Watkins LLP, where he was co-chairman of the Internet and
digital media industry group.  Nash handles complex technology, content and intellectual
property transactions, joint ventures, mergers and acquisitions,
intellectual property acquisitions and spin outs, and other
strategic collaborations, the firm said.  He advises clients on intellectual property ownership, use,
acquisition, sale, license and protection, and structures and
negotiates US and cross-border strategic transactions. He also
handles commercial arrangements, including development, hosting,
services, outsourcing, manufacturing, supply, distribution,
marketing, advertising and promotions.  Sidley Austin has approximately 1700 lawyers in 18 U.S. and
international cities, including in  Europe ,  China  and  Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 