-- Washington Drivers Crash Most of Any U.S. City
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-28T04:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/washington-drivers-crash-most-of-any-u-s-city.html
Washington, D.C., drivers are the
most accident-prone among the largest U.S. cities, again placing
at the bottom of the ranking in a report by insurer  Allstate
Corp. (ALL)   Drivers in the nation’s capital get in a collision every
4.7 years, more than twice the rate of the average American
motorist, Allstate said today in a statement. It was the fifth
year in a row Washington was last in the report.  “People don’t pay attention,” Chris Charucksiri, owner of
Capitol Hill Auto Services, a repair shop in the district, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “Everyone’s on their phone.
It’s obnoxious.”  Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. auto insurer,
does an annual survey using claims data to determine the
likelihood of crashes in most of the nation’s 200 largest
cities. The current report includes data from January 2009
through December 2010. The national  rate of auto accidents  has
been declining for most of the past two decades as carmakers
improved safety features, according to U.S. Department of
Transportation data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, drivers should be aware of the risks posed by
distractions such as texting, Kate Hollcraft, a spokeswoman for
the Northbrook, Illinois-based insurer, said in a phone
interview.  The Transportation Department considers using a mobile
phone, eating, grooming and adjusting the radio among activities
that can compromise a person’s ability to operate a vehicle.
Such distractions contributed to  about a fifth  of car crashes in
2010 that involved an injury, the department said.  Safe Habits  “The layout of a city, its transportation network, traffic
signs, lights, law enforcement, all those things impact how safe
a city is,” Hollcraft said. “Regardless of where you live,
there are definitely safe driving habits, like minimizing
distractions.”  Allstate’s  auto policies  make up about 10 percent of the
U.S. market, according to the statement. The findings released
today excluded cities in Massachusetts, where Allstate began
selling auto coverage in late 2009, according to Hollcraft. The
national average for the period between collisions is about 10
years, she said.  Sioux Falls, South Dakota, drivers had the lowest frequency
of accidents, going an average of 13.8 years between collisions.
It’s the fifth time in the eight years Allstate has issued the
report that Sioux Falls has been called the “safest driving
city.”  New York, the most populous U.S. city, ranked 176th, with
drivers crashing about every seven years.  Phoenix and San Diego fared the best of cities with a
population of more than 1 million. Baltimore was second-worst
behind Washington, with crashes every 5.3 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  