-- WellPoint’s CEO Braly Resigns Amid Shareholder Criticism
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-29T00:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/wellpoint-s-ceo-braly-resigns-under-pressure-from-shareholders.html
Angela Braly resigned as chairman
and chief executive officer of  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  after recent
criticism from shareholders who said the second-leading U.S.
insurer was underperforming. The shares rose.  John Cannon, the company’s executive vice president and
general counsel, will serve as interim CEO while WellPoint
searches for a replacement, the Indianapolis-based insurer said
today in a statement. Cannon isn't a candidate for the 
permanent job, according to the statement.  During her five-year tenure, Braly, 51, made herself a foe
of the health-care overhaul and, more recently, of investors 
after WellPoint missed earnings estimates and cut its  forecast  
twice in four months. Even before the resignation, investors had 
touted James Carlson, the  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  chief, and David Snow Jr., the former Medco Health Solutions Inc. CEO, as replacement 
candidates, said Jason Gurda, an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co.   “I have spoken with our board and we have agreed this is
the right action for WellPoint at this time,” Braly said in a
memo to company employees. “The board and I feel, though, that
the company will benefit from getting a fresh perspective on
ways we can improve execution across the company.”  Royal Management Group LLC called for Braly’s ouster in an
reported by  Bloomberg News  on Aug. 23. That following similar 
public criticism from shareholders Orbimed Advisors LLC, an 
investment fund, and hedge fund Omega Advisors Inc.   ‘Pleasant Surprise’  Robert Medway, a partner in Royal Capital Management, said 
WellPoint will benefit from Braly’s departure in a telephone
interview after the announcement.  “This is a pleasant surprise that boards of directors
sometimes do their jobs,” Medway said. “Now we look forward to 
seeing who takes the helm and creates some value here.”  The company’s  shares  gained 4.1 percent to $59.75 at 6:53
p.m.  New York  time in extended trading after declining 1.3
percent to $57.39 at the close.  WellPoint traded at a 2 percent premium to an S&P 500 index
of the top six health insurers when Braly took over as chairman
on March 1, 2010. As of yesterday, it changed hands at a 44
percent  discount , suggesting investors’ waning confidence. The
company has lost about $8 billion of its value during that time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The WellPoint board had supported Braly, who took over as
CEO in June 2007, before today in two public statements in the
face of calls for her ouster. Braly was one of 20 women running
Fortune 500 companies.  ‘Right Time’  “Now is the right time for a leadership change,” Jackie Ward, a WellPoint director, said in today’s statement. “We
believe the remaining executive team is dynamic and strong, with
great potential to drive WellPoint’s future success.”  Braly’s resignation came after nearly two weeks of meetings
between WellPoint’s board and top shareholders of the company.  WellPoint is buying Amerigroup, a rival insurer, for $4.9
billion, and Medco was acquired for $29.1 billion in April by
Express Scripts Holding Co., a fellow drug-benefits manager.  Other names raised by investors include Chief Financial
Officer Wayne Deveydt, Gail Boudreaux, the head of the health
plan division at  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest U.S.
health insurer, and Kenneth Goulet, WellPoint’s executive vice-
president, said Thomas Carroll, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst
in Baltimore.  In its letter to the board, dated Aug. 22, Royal Capital
wrote that Braly has “failed miserably” since becoming CEO in
June 2007. The statement, signed by partners Medway and John Lancefield, cited disappointing profits, a stock that’s lagged
behind competitors and “managerial blunders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  