-- When Bryan Set the Gold Standard for Convention Speeches
-- B y   G r e g o r y   M o r r i s
-- 2012-08-28T21:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/when-bryan-set-the-gold-standard-for-convention-speeches.html
“There are two ideas of government.
There are those who believe that, if you will only legislate to
make the well-to-do prosperous, their prosperity will leak
through on those below. The Democratic idea, however, has been
that if you legislate to make the masses prosperous, their
prosperity will find its way up through every class which rests
upon them.”  There couldn’t be a more concise presentation of the
current partisan standoff in Congress and also of this year’s
presidential race.  Yet those aren’t the words of a modern political analyst,
but a passage from William Jennings Bryan’s  address  to the
Democratic National Convention in  Chicago  on July 9, 1896 -- his
famous “Cross of Gold” speech.  We may lament that nothing ever changes or deplore any hint
of class warfare, but there is no doubt that familiar themes are
resonating into a third century of U.S. politics.  Bryan represented  Nebraska . In the years after
Reconstruction, agricultural interests in the rapidly expanding
West and in the war-torn South desperately needed cash to
lubricate their economies. Then, as now, the financial
establishment was leery of increasing liquidity for fear of
inflation. Borrowers always favor soft money because it allows
them to pay back loans with cash that is worth less than what
they borrowed. Lenders always prefer hard money.  Silver Coinage  The fulcrum of debate in Bryan’s time was the gold standard
and the free coinage of silver. The  Coinage Act  of 1792
authorized unlimited coinage of silver at a value of 15-to-1
against gold. But when the value of gold rose, people hoarded
it, which had the effect of putting the economy on a silver
standard. The ratio was changed officially in 1837 to 16-to-1.
With an effective gold standard restored, silver coinage was
ended in 1873, with a brief return from 1890 to 1893, setting
the stage for Bryan’s fireworks.  In January 1896, physical  gold reserves  fell to dangerously
low levels, causing a public outcry. Nevertheless, when the
 Republican National Convention  met in  St. Louis  in June, it
nominated William McKinley for president on a platform defending
the gold standard and imposing high tariff protections. The
following month, the Democrats met in Chicago. The clarion call
was free coinage of silver at 16-to-1, but the convention was
roiled by chaos. Bryan captivated the 20,000 fractious delegates
as he laid out a compelling argument for fairness and equity.  “When you come  before us  and tell us that we are about to
disturb your business interests, we reply that you have
disturbed our business interests by course,” he said.  The famous speech continued:  “We say to you that you have made the definition of a
business man too limited in its application. The man who is
employed for wages is as much a business man as his employer;
the attorney in a country town is as much a business man as the
corporation counsel in a great metropolis; the merchant at the
crossroads store is as much a business man as the merchant of
 New York ; the farmer who goes forth in the morning and toils all
day -- who begins in the spring and toils all summer -- and who
by the application of brain and muscle to the natural resources
of the country creates wealth, is as much a business man as the
man who goes upon the Board of Trade and bets upon the price of
grain; the miners who go down a thousand feet into the earth, or
climb 2,000 feet upon the cliffs, and bring forth from their
hiding-places the precious metals to be poured in the channels
of trade, are as much business men as the few financial magnates
who, in a back room, corner the money of the world.”  Bryan then went for the kill.  “If they dare to come out in the open field and defend the
gold standard as a good thing, we will fight them to the
uttermost. Having behind us the producing masses of this nation
and the world, supported by the commercial interests, the
laboring interests, and the toilers everywhere, we will answer
their demand for a gold standard by saying to them: You shall
not press down upon the brow of labor this crown of thorns; you
shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold.”  The hall sat in stunned silence, then exploded in euphoria.
Bryan was nominated as the Democratic candidate for president.
Later than month, a group of progressive Republicans bolted
their party and endorsed him. Then a group of goldbug Democrats
bolted their party, but didn’t endorse McKinley. Instead they
nominated John Palmer, a former Illinois governor.  ‘General Welfare’  Few would argue with Bryan’s original assessment, even if
they disagree with his conclusions. The challenge, however, was
to convince those who have much that they will actually be
better off in the long run by parting with a little of it, while
at the same time convincing those who have little that they bear
the primary responsibility for improving their own situation.
Striking that balance to “promote the general welfare,” as the
Constitution puts it, eludes most elected officials today just
as it ultimately eluded Bryan and his contemporaries.  One simple reason is the resentment at the core of the
debate on both sides. Bryan’s speech is almost 3,500 words, and
he spends most of it professing an admiration for opposing
politicians and insisting he has no quarrel with the wealthy
cities of the East Coast. But then he crosses into righteous
indignation and confrontation:  “We have petitioned, and our petitions have been scorned;
we have entreated, and our entreaties have been disregarded; we
have begged, and they have mocked when our calamity came. We beg
no longer; we entreat no more; we petition no more. We defy
them.”  If the Great Orator cannot steer clear of high dudgeon,
what chance does anyone else have?  Ironically, Bryan’s disdain for hard money extended to
fundraising for the campaign. The McKinley camp spent an
estimated $7 million -- and won -- compared with Bryan’s modest
outlay of $300,000. The electoral count was overwhelming, but
the popular vote was very close: 7,104,799 to 6,502,925. Whether
Bryan could have prevailed if he had spent more money is an open
question.  Even as the echoes of Bryan’s oratory reverberated across
the Old Northwest Territory of the U.S., the last great gold
rush in  North America  was starting in the not-so-old
northwestern territories of  Canada  on the Klondike Creek. It
took a year for the first steamers to arrive in  San Francisco  in
July 1897, with gold from the Yukon. Annual production averaged
$10 million, more than the cost of the U.S. election, and enough
to take the edge off the gold debate for a time.  McKinley fostered the Gold Standard Act of 1900, making the
gold dollar the unit of value for the country. That held until
the depths of the Great Depression in 1933, when President
 Franklin D. Roosevelt  suspended specie payments and coinage. At
the time, gold was fixed at $35 an ounce. In 1971, in the face
of soaring inflation, President  Richard Nixon  took the U.S. off
the gold standard for good.  (Gregory Morris is a member of the editorial board of the
Museum of American Finance, a Smithsonian affiliate, and a
contributor to the Echoes blog. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more Echoes columns online.  To contact the writer of this post:
Gregory Morris at  gdlm@enterpriseandindustry.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  