-- Two-Star Dual Planet System Found 5,000 Light-Years Away
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-08-28T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/two-star-dual-planet-system-found-5-000-light-years-away.html
Astronomers said they discovered the
first system where two planets orbit two stars that in turn
circle each other, creating a celestial traffic pattern that
makes the length of day vary wildly on the terrestrial surfaces.  The solar system, called Kepler 47, has one star about the
size of the Earth’s sun and a second one two-thirds smaller,
which orbit each other every 7.5 days, according to a report by
NASA scientists posted online today by the journal  Science . The
two planets that revolve around the stars are bigger than Earth,
and one may be far enough away from the suns to have water.  “The thing I find most exciting is the potential for
habitability,” said  William Welsh , a professor of astronomy at
 San Diego State University  in  California . He presented the data
at the  International Astronomical Union  meeting in Beijing.  Measurements showed variable daylight patterns as the two
stars completed orbits that took them closer then farther from
the planets, which themselves travel in their own patterns
around the two stars. The system is about 5,000 light-years away
from Earth. A light-year, the distance light travels in a vacuum
in one year, is 5.88 trillion miles (9.46 trillion kilometers).  The outer planet in the double-star system, which is 4.6
times the size of Earth or about the size of Uranus, orbits
every 303 days. That means it’s in the so-called habitable zone,
where liquid water could be present. The inner planet is 3 times
bigger than Earth, orbiting every 49 days.  ‘Interesting Worlds’  Neither of the planets are likely to harbor life, since the
inner one is too close, and the outer one is probably a gas
giant. However, if the outer planet has moons, “those would be
very interesting worlds,” Welsh said.  The U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s
 Kepler mission  is designed to discover Earth-size and smaller
celestial bodies in regions around their stars where water might
exist on the surface of the planet. The mission has confirmed at
least 75 planets and identified 2,321 planet candidates. The
Kepler spacecraft was launched in March 2009.  Four single planets are known to orbit binary stars: Kepler
16, Kepler 34, Kepler 35 and Kepler 38. The Kepler 47 dual-
planet discovery was made by noticing the slight dimming from
when the planets passed in front of their suns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 