-- Yankees Lose Ground to Texas With 11th-Inning Loss to Blue Jays
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-08-28T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/yankees-lose-ground-to-texas-with-11th-inning-loss-to-blue-jays.html
The Yankees lost ground to the  Texas
Rangers  in the battle for the American League’s best record as
the Toronto Blue Jays rallied to beat New York 8-7 in 11
innings.  Toronto’s Colby Rasmus hit a three-run homer off Rafael Soriano with two outs in the ninth inning last night at Yankee
Stadium to give the Blue Jays a 7-6 lead.  Derek Jeter ’s home run
in the bottom of the ninth tied it and Adeiny Hechavarria
grounded out to drive in Mike McCoy with the decisive run in the
11th after  Derek Lowe ’s wild pickoff throw.  Yankees first baseman  Mark Teixeira  was removed from the
game after the fourth inning with a strained left calf and sent
to the hospital for a scan. Teixeira has 23 home runs and a
team-leading 81 runs batted in this season.  The result drops the Yankees to 74-54.  Adrian Beltre  drove
in four runs with a solo homer, two-run double and run-scoring
single as the AL-leading Rangers improved to 76-52 with a 6-5
home win against the Tampa Bay Rays.  The Yankees and Rangers are both division leaders, with New
York leading the Baltimore Orioles by 3 1/2 games atop the AL
East. The team with the better record would have home-field
advantage if the Yankees and Rangers meet in the playoffs.  Robinson Cano had solo homers in the first and fourth
innings for New York, while  Nick Swisher  added a two-run home
run in the fifth.  The Yankees have 34 regular-season games remaining,
including 15 against Major League Baseball teams with winning
records -- the Oakland Athletics, Orioles and Rays. They also
have to play the Boston Red Sox six times.  The Rangers have 17 games against teams with winning
records -- the Rays, Los Angeles Angels and Athletics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 