-- Tymoshenko Says European Court Is ‘Only Hope’ Against Ukraine
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-28T15:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/tymoshenko-says-european-court-is-only-hope-against-ukraine.html
Yulia Tymoshenko, Ukraine’s former
prime minister, asked the European  human rights  court to condemn
her imprisonment as she fights a conviction related to a 2009
natural gas import contract.  Tymoshenko told her lawyer to tell the  European Court of
Human Rights  today that that tribunal is “the only hope” for
her against a politically-motivated prosecution aimed at muting
the opposition before October parliamentary elections in the
country.  “She is absolutely isolated” and has been deprived of
rights normally given Ukrainian prisoners, her lawyer, Serhiy
Vlasenko, told the judges in Strasbourg, France, today. He said
he saw her yesterday and “she asked me to address you” for
help “because there is no fair judiciary in Ukraine.”  Tymoshenko, 51, was among the leaders of the 2004 Orange
Revolution. She has accused  Viktor Yanukovych , who defeated her
in the 2010 presidential election, and his administration, of
corruption and violating democratic principles. The case has
eroded U.S. and European trust in the former Soviet republic,
and the European Union, U.S. and  Russia  have condemned her
conviction.  Last year, Tymoshenko was sentenced to seven years in jail
and banned from public office for three years by a Ukrainian
court that ruled the natural gas deal was an abuse of office.
The national court found that she harmed Ukraine by signed a
natural gas supply and transit accord with Russia in 2009,
ending a price dispute that had disrupted deliveries for weeks
during freezing weather.  The case is Tymoshenko v. Ukraine,  European Court  of Human
Rights, 49872/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  