-- Yule Catto Rises as Profit and Dividend Pledge Buoys Sentiment
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-08-28T09:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/yule-catto-rises-as-profit-and-dividend-pledge-buoys-sentiment.html
Yule Catto & Co. (YULC) , the world’s
largest producer of nitrile latex, climbed the most in two
months in London trading after profit beat estimates and
management pledged to pay a bigger-than-estimated dividend.  Yule Catto’s stock increased as much as 7.3 percent, the
most since June 29. First-half pretax profit of 56 million
pounds ($88 million) beat the average 53.9 million-pound
estimate from a survey of three analysts by Bloomberg.
Shareholders will receive a 2.2 pence payout versus a Bloomberg
estimate of 1.5 pence.  “The balance of the company is trading very well in, let’s
be honest, difficult circumstances,” Chief Executive Officer
Adrian Whitfield said in a phone interview. “Most people have
to look at these results and say they are slightly stronger than
we thought. This is a good first step in convincing people that
the business remains robust.”  The stock’s gain is a sign the Harlow, England-based
company is regaining investor confidence after announcing a
threat to its Asian market share in June. Expansion in styrene
butadiene and dispersion businesses, following the $592 million
acquisition of PolymerLatex in 2010, will provide a buffer for
the slowdown in nitrile latex, used in tires and medical gloves,
as demand remains resilient for products such as high-
performance adhesives.  Overcapacity Persists  The company faces “no meaningful” recovery in nitrile
latex markets in  Asia  over the next 12 to 18 months as
overcapacity persists. Excess capacity is equal to about 60,000
to 100,000 tons, following the arrival of a new entrant to the
nitrile latex industry supplying the medical glove market,
Whitfield said. The market accounts for 14 percent of Yule
Catto’s business.  Whitfield said some of the lost market share will be
foregone as part of its strategy to maintain margins rather than
pursue volumes by lowering prices. The industry remains in its
infancy and Yule Catto will be bringing new grades of the latex
through, as well as improved manufacturing processes, Whitfield
said.  The U.K. company reiterated its target for 96 million
pounds in pretax profit this year and a dividend of 5.5 pence
for 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  