-- Zadie Smith’s Jazzy London Tale Has Traders, Do-Gooders: Books
-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 2012-08-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-28/zadie-smith-s-jazzy-london-tale-has-traders-do-gooders-books.html
Restlessness defines “ NW ,”  Zadie
Smith ’s fourth novel, an intimate tale of social mobility in
21st-century  London  that jives to the city’s jangly beat.  Told in prose that ranges from the staccato to the
sonorous, the book centers on a multiracial quartet of 30-
somethings, two women and two men who grew up on the same crummy
council estate in London’s northwestern neighborhood of Kilburn.
It’s Smith’s own home turf and also provided the setting for her
breakthrough debut, “ White Teeth .”  Though it features abortion, theft and murder, “NW” is
character- rather than plot-driven, and it’s the women who carry
it. Leah Hanwell’s family is Irish, Keisha Blake’s is Caribbean;
they’ve been best friends since they were four years old and
Keisha saved Leah from drowning, fishing her out of the local
public pool by her ginger pigtails.  Both escaped the estate to decent universities, Leah to
Edinburgh where she dyed her hair, fell in with tree-huggers and
slept with girls, and Keisha to Bristol where she changed her
name to Natalie.  Now in their mid-30s, they remain close even though their
paths have diverged. Leah is stuck in a dead-end, do-good job
doling out meager funding to charities. She lives in a council
flat with a dog she dotes on and a husband -- a North African
hairdresser -- who dabbles in online  currency trading  and yearns
for a child.  Park View  Natalie has become a lawyer, banker’s wife and mother of
two. Home for her is an exquisite million-pound house
overlooking a park. While Leah passes the old council estate on
her way to work, Natalie lives just far enough away to be able
to forget where she came from.  Unbeknownst to each other, both women are rebelling against
the domestic lives they’ve made for themselves in ways that
could cost them dearly.  Life has turned out rather differently for the men. Nathan
Bogle, object of Leah’s schoolgirl crush and a sometime
professional soccer hopeful, is living on the streets. Felix
Cooper, with his dimples and three gold teeth, is a reformed
junkie who once dreamed of making films and now works as a car
mechanic.  Their stories -- one of which will end tragically --
intersect through the kinds of coincidences that make cities
feel like such small places.  Indeed, as the novel skips back and forth in time, flirting
with numbered vignettes, experimental typography and stream-of-
consciousness meditations, discontinuity becomes a kind of
continuity in itself.  Train Thoughts  From a train window, Leah gazes out at her neighborhood,
reflecting on how far it has fallen from its 19th-century
beginnings: “Well-appointed country living for those tired of
the city. Fast forward. Disappointed city living for those tired
of their countries.”  Some things do not change. A socialite  drug addict  who
lives above a brothel and an Italian heiress who once upon a
time got knocked up by a Trinidadian train guard may test the
rigidity of the class system, yet the choice of a noun can still
betray a person. Someone’s lounge is another’s sitting room and
somebody else’s living room.  “NW” is a moodier, less exuberant novel than its
predecessors. There’s a poignancy to some of its observations
that is new. Take Natalie’s realization, for instance, as she
watches her gay brother and his housemates down shots of blue
liquor and feels her husband and kids waiting for her at home:
“Women come bearing time.”  Black Clothes  Elsewhere, you’ll still find comic set pieces including a
deftly skewered dinner party, plenty of pitch-perfect urban
patois (“You get me?”), and a shrewd assessment of the
professional woman’s wardrobe (pretty much any of Natalie’s work
outfits might be worn to a funeral).  For all the book’s formal gutsiness, its themes are
timeless: reinvention, yes, and also marriage, motherhood and
the relationship between parents and children. Similarly, its
street-smart riffs may take in drugs and sex toys as well as
Sartre and apple blossoms, yet stylistically the author it most
consistently brings to mind is Virginia Woolf.  If the novel doesn’t quite transcend the sum of its parts,
it remains one of the most interesting portrayals of 30-
something womanhood that I’ve come across in a long time. Of
course, I happen to be a 30-something woman. For other readers,
Smith’s brilliant eye and idiosyncratic ear should be ample
enticement.  “NW” is published by Penguin Press in the U.S. and Hamish
Hamilton in the U.K. (401 pages, $26.95, 18.99 pounds). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and Katya
Kazakina on  hot art .  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 