-- 
‘New Year’s Eve’ Is No. 1 Film With $13.7 Million in Receipts

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-12-12T05:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/-new-year-s-eve-is-weekend-s-no-1-movie-with-receipts-of-13-7-million.html
The romantic comedy “New Year’s
Eve” opened as the top movie at U.S. and Canadian theaters,
collecting $13.7 million in ticket sales for  Warner Bros .  The Jonah Hill comedy “The Sitter” was second in its
debut weekend, taking in $10 million, researcher  Hollywood.com
Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “The
Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn Part 1,” with $7.9 million,
dropped to third place after three weeks as No. 1.  Studios are holding back their major holiday releases until
closer to Christmas, when the year-end school break typically
boosts sales. Titles scheduled to open in the next two weeks
include Warner’s “ Sherlock Holmes : A Game of Shadows,”  Steven Spielberg ’s “The Adventures of Tintin” and “The Girl With the
Dragon Tattoo.”  “This wasn’t a big box-office movie weekend,” said
 Paul Sweeney , a media analyst for Bloomberg Industries in
Princeton,  New Jersey . “There wasn’t a blockbuster movie to set
the pace.”  “New Year’s Eve” was expected to generate $22.5 million
in its first weekend, the estimate of researcher  BoxOffice.com .
The film follows the lives of a group of  New Yorkers  as they
celebrate the holiday weekend. An ensemble cast includes  Robert De Niro , Michelle Pfeiffer,  Halle Berry , Jessica Biel and Zac Efron. The director is Garry Marshall, whose similarly
structured “Valentine’s Day” took in $216 million last year.  ‘The Sitter’  “The Sitter” follows the misadventures of a suspended
college student who agrees to spend an evening watching his
next-door neighbor’s kids. The movie co-stars Sam Rockwell.  “Twilight,” the fourth film in the series, stars  Kristen Stewart  as a teen-age human who falls in love with a vampire,
played by  Robert Pattinson . The movie has grossed $259.5 million
in the U.S. and Canada since its Nov. 18 release, according to
Hollywood.com. The film, made for about $110 million, was
expected to post weekend sales of $8.5 million, the estimate of
BoxOffice.com.  The “Twilight” series is scheduled to end a year from now
with “Breaking Dawn Part 2.” The first three movies in the
series have had  worldwide sales  of $1.8 billion, according to
Box Office Mojo.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “The Muppets,” based on the characters
created by  Jim Henson , finished fourth with $7.1 million in
sales. In the film, three fans learn that an oilman wants to
drill under the characters’ old theater. They seek out the
former stars, including Kermit the Frog, Miss Piggy
and Gonzo, who are now leading separate lives. Steve Whitmire,
 Eric Jacobson  and Dave Goelz provide the three main Muppet
voices, respectively.  `Sherlock'  The animated film “Arthur Christmas” was fifth, with $6.6
million. The movie, which features the voices of  James McAvoy 
and Hugh Laurie, exposes Santa’s high-tech operation hidden
beneath the  North Pole , while telling the story of a family in a
state of comic dysfunction.  Sweeney said that “Sherlock” and “Mission: Impossible -
Ghost Protocol” should both do “extremely well” next weekend.  “They have proven franchises with known stars that should
drive big box-office revenue,” he said.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 17.9 percent to
$69.2 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
box-office receipts this year have declined almost 3.87 percent
to $9.57 billion. Attendance is down 4.71 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Dec.
9 and Dec. 10 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  