-- 
Arab States May Suffer 24% Drop in Foreign Direct Investment After Unrest

-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-12-11T13:38:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/arab-states-may-suffer-24-foreign-investment-slump-after-unrest.html
Arab states have suffered a slump in
foreign direct investment of as much as 24 percent this year as
political unrest sweeps the region, according to the group that
insures such funding against non-commercial risks.  Foreign financing will shrink to between $50 billion and
$55 billion in 2011 from $66.2 billion the previous year, the
Arab Investment & Export Credit Guarantee Corp., known as
Dhaman, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The total value of insurance operations concluded by  Dhaman 
in the first eight months was about $780 million, “a significant
increase” versus last year, indicating heightened concern, Fahad
al-Ibrahim, its director-general, said in the e-mail.  Egypt  is worst affected, with foreign direct investment
dropping an estimated 92 percent to $500 million, according to a
report issued by Dhaman in October.  Tunisia , where the so-called
Arab Spring began, is estimated to have drawn $1.2 billion in
funding this year, a decline of 20 percent, the report said.  Kuwait-based Dhaman’s figures, which have not been verified
by individual governments, suggest  Libya  received about $500
million, down 87 percent, and  Syria  $484 million, where unrest
continues, a decline of 65 percent. Bahrain, which witnessed
anti-government protests by the majority Shiite population, may
have suffered a 36 percent drop to $100 million.  Higher  oil prices , an increase in public spending and
international pledges of as much $50 billion in aid could help
mitigate the decline in investment, al-Ibrahim said.  “The main challenge facing regional governments is adopting
balanced and well-thought of policies to attract profitable
foreign investments,” he said. “A big number of international
companies are still considering investing in the region,
especially in oil-rich, politically stable countries.”  Dhaman, which counts all Arab states as members except the
Comoros Islands, provides insurance coverage for Arab and
foreign investments in member countries against risks such as
expropriation, war and civil disturbance, its website says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait  at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  