-- 
Israel’s Babylon Says Arab World to Boost Sales of Translation Software

-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 
2011-12-11T15:04:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/babylon-says-arab-world-brazil-to-boost-language-software-sales.html
Babylon Ltd. (BBYL) , an Israeli developer
of translation and dictionary software, says sales will continue
to surge on demand for language products in the Arab world and
 Brazil , Chief Executive Officer Alon Carmeli said.  “We have reported a growth rate in revenue of nearly 80
percent in dollar terms since the beginning of the year and we
expect a similar growth going forward,” Carmeli said in an
interview at Babylon’s offices in Or Yehuda.  The software developer, named after the Tower of Babel
biblical story about the creation of different languages, says
it has more than 100 million users and operates in about 200
markets. The company provides translation for 75 languages,
including the recently added Vietnamese and Swahili.  The shares have gained 72 percent this year, giving Babylon
a market value of 386 million shekels ($103 million). The
benchmark  TA-25 index (TA-25)  has dropped 18 percent. The Tel Aviv Stock
Exchange said last week that Babylon will be added to the Mid
Cap-50 equity index on Dec. 15.  Babylon is boosting marketing efforts in Brazil, where it
plans to capitalize on translation needs in a country that will
host the 2014  World Cup  and 2016 Olympics. In Arab areas, the
company has strong Web traffic and needs to sell products that
garner more revenue, Carmeli said. Babylon started using a call
center in the West Bank city of Ramallah to push its services.  “The Arab world is a big proportion of our website traffic
but not a big proportion of our revenue,” the 46-year-old CEO
said. “We need to be more local in the way we do business with
them, because many users don’t have credit cards and we need to
find alternative payment methods.”  Internet Power  The “Arab Spring,” a wave of protests that displaced
regimes in the  Middle East  and North Africa this year, built
thirst for Internet communications, Carmeli said. Leaders of the
uprising that ended  Hosni Mubarak ’s control of  Egypt  included a
blogger who founded a youth movement on Facebook.  “They are suddenly realizing the power the Internet can
give you,” Carmeli said. “They open Facebook accounts, then
they start to communicate and then they need Babylon.”  The Israeli company has the seventh most popular website in
 Libya , while it’s No. 8 in  Algeria , 11th in Tunisia and 23rd in
Egypt, according to  Alexa Internet , a research company.  Stalled peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians
shouldn’t be a problem for Babylon, said Natali Gotlieb, an
equity analyst at Israel Brokerage & Investments Ltd.  “There is a great need for translation services in these
countries to breach the language barrier,” she said. “Babylon
is an international  Internet company , with no border. So the
Israeli-Arab issue is a non-issue.”  30 Million Visitors  Babylon, whose customers include Coca-Cola Co., SAP AG and
Nokia Oyj, is attracting 30 million visitors to its site a day,
said Carmeli, who has led the company for almost four years. It
has 15 advertising partnerships including with Google Inc. and
 Russia ’s Yandex LLC Internet portal.  The company had a price to earnings ratio of 21.83 times as
of Dec. 8, compared with an average ratio of 14.79 times for
comparable Israeli software firms, according to Bloomberg data.  The  software developer  plans to add advertising partners in
Brazil in the coming year and will build distribution, said Liat Sade-Sternberg, Babylon marketing vice president, who will
travel to the country this month. Brazil’s booming economy, as
well as the World Cup and Olympics events, are a major
opportunity, Carmeli said.  “The whole area of languages in this country is going to
get a massive push forward,” he said. “All the service
providers will have to offer services in English.’”  Babylon has had annual revenue growth of more than 30
percent since 2007 and reported sales of 118.4 million shekels
for 2010, according to Bloomberg data. Sales rose to 57.5
million shekels in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  