-- 
Bain, Apollo, Pamplona Said in Late-Stage Taminco Bidding

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-12-12T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/bain-apollo-pamplona-said-to-be-in-late-stage-taminco-bidding.html
Bain Capital LLC, Apollo Global
Management LLC and Pamplona Capital Advisors Ltd. are in the
final stages of bidding for CVC Capital Partner Ltd.’s amine-
derivatives business, two people with knowledge of the situation
said.  The three buyout funds took part in second-round bidding
for CVC’s Taminco last week and a winner may be chosen as soon
as this week, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the sale process is private. CVC invited Bain, Apollo
and Pamplona to revise their offers to see which can get closest
to its 1.2 billion-euro ($1.61 billion) preferred price tag.  CVC is closing in on an exit from Taminco, which it bought
for 800 million euros in 2007. It canceled a planned initial
public offering in February 2010, citing market volatility, and
failed to reach an agreement with synthetic rubber maker Lanxess
AG this year. While the latest auction was geared toward private
equity, Eastman Chemical Co. and another chemical company
expressed initial interest in the asset, one of the people said.  Spokespeople for CVC, Bain, Pamplona and Apollo weren’t
immediately available for comment.  Taminco Chief Executive Officer Laurent Lenoir has steered
the Ghent, Belgium-based company toward higher-growth markets
such as personal-care chemicals and water treatment, away from
commoditized products. As part of an emerging-market drive, the
company entered a joint venture with Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Co.
to expand production in  China . In the U.S., Taminco is expanding
its methylamines operation as demand grows.  Taminco takes ammonia and blends it with alcohol to make
amines that can be reacted with other chemicals to make
derivatives with uses spanning pharmaceuticals, foods, crop
chemicals and solvents.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are
advising London-based CVC on the sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  