-- 
Brewers Braun, National League MVP, Disputes Positive Drug Test, ESPN Says

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-12-11T05:23:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/brewers-braun-national-league-mvp-tests-positive-for-drug-espn-reports.html
National League Most Valuable Player  Ryan Braun  of the  Milwaukee Brewers  is challenging the positive
results of a drug test, ESPN reported, citing an unidentified
spokesman for the player.  Braun faces a 50-game suspension if the positive result for
a performance-enhancing drug is upheld, ESPN reported, citing
two people familiar with the case.  Major League Baseball  hasn’t commented on the issue because
Braun is disputing the drug test through arbitration, ESPN said.  Braun’s spokesman said he and the outfielder are
“confident that he will ultimately be exonerated,” according
to ESPN.  “There are highly unusual circumstances surrounding this
case which will support Ryan’s complete innocence and
demonstrate there was absolutely no intentional violation of the
program,” the spokesman said in a statement, according to ESPN.  Nez Balelo, Braun’s agent, didn’t return a call to his Los
Angeles office by Bloomberg.  “I would love to talk, but unfortunately I’m not really
allowed to say anything right now,” Braun said in a text
message to MLB.com. “My day will come soon, though.”  Braun, 28, provided a urine sample for testing during the
playoffs, ESPN said. He was told in October that he had high
level of testosterone which gave a positive result. A second
test on the sample showed the testosterone came from a synthetic
source.  Braun requested a second urine test that wasn’t positive,
ESPN said, citing a person familiar with the tests.  Braun hit .332 with 33 home runs and 11 runs batted in as
the Brewers tallied a franchise-record 96 wins during the
regular season and earned the National League Central title.  During the five years since he was selected in the first
round of the 2005 draft by the Brewers, Braun has hit .312 with
161 homers and 531 RBIs. He also has appeared in four All-Star
games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  