-- 
Bundesbank Cools ECB Bond-Buying Talk as EU Leaders Promote Fiscal Accord

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-12-12T12:31:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/bundesbank-cools-ecb-bond-buying-talk-as-eu-leaders-promote-fiscal-accord.html
Germany’s top central banker cooled
speculation that the  European Central Bank  will extend its role
as European leaders pressed their case that a new fiscal accord
will deliver the region from its two-year-old debt crisis.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann told the  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung  yesterday that while the new accord
represents “progress,” the onus is on governments rather than
the Frankfurt-based ECB to resolve the crisis with financial
backing. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said euro-
area policy makers will now focus on implementing the Dec. 9
pact to strengthen budget rules as quickly as possible.  The Franco-German-led agreement, which provides tighter
budget rules and an additional 200 billion euros ($267 billion)
to the euro war chest, is part of an effort to reassure
investors that Europe can master the crisis. ECB President  Mario Draghi  lauded the accord, stoking hopes among investors that the
central bank might step up bond purchases.  “We’re baying for the ECB to do all the things it keeps
telling us it can’t do,”  George Magnus , senior economic adviser
at UBS AG, said in an interview with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television in London today. “Maybe if the crisis worsens
materially, which I suspect it will, the ECB can be a bit more
flexible. But I don’t think that Draghi will do the kinds of
infinite and open-ended bond purchasing which the industry
actually thinks it should do.”  Ratings Warning  European stocks  and the euro dropped today, with the single
currency down 0.96 percent at $1.3258 as of 12:55 p.m. in
Berlin, after Moody’s Investors Service said it will review the
ratings of all European Union countries after the Brussels
summit failed to produce “decisive policy measures” to end the
crisis.  Standard & Poor’s  placed the ratings of 15 euro nations,
including AAA rated France and Germany, on review for possible
downgrade on Dec. 6 pending an assessment of the summit outcome.  Italy and  Spain  led a decline in peripheral euro-area bonds
even as the ECB was said to buy Italian securities. Italian 10-
year yields climbed 40 basis points, or 0.40 percentage point,
to 6.73 percent, while Spanish 10-year rates increased 31 basis
points to 6.02 percent. German 10-year bunds rose and two-year
yields approached a euro-era record low.  Merkel’s ‘Breakthrough’  After the summit,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the accord
set the region on a path to a “lastingly stable euro,” and
“the breakthrough to a stable union has been achieved.” Merkel
will address German lower-house lawmakers in Berlin on Dec. 14
on the summit’s outcome, her chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert,
told reporters today.  The accord opens the way for the ECB to intensify its role
in the crisis, Irish Deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore  said in
an interview with Dublin-based broadcaster RTE yesterday. The
ECB has signaled “that it would strengthen its role and enhance
its role following the conclusion of an agreement,” he said.  “The ECB will have to gear up its purchases should market
tension increase, there is simply no other option available,”
Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in
 London , wrote in e-mailed response to a Bloomberg News query.  European leaders have given themselves until March to
complete the language for the new rulebook and plan to set up
the region’s permanent rescue fund, the European Stability
Mechanism, a year earlier than planned in 2012. They also aim to
reassess plans to cap the overall lending of the ESM at 500
billion euros.  ‘Can’t Lean Back’  “We need to work on making this happen quickly, because we
have to regain the lost trust of the financial markets and
investors across the globe,” Schaeuble said in an interview on
Germany’s ARD television late yesterday. “We can’t lean back.”  Retiring ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said EU
and euro-area institutions needed to take a “quantum leap”
forward to overcome the crisis. In an interview with  Germany ’s
 Sueddeutsche Zeitung  published yesterday, Stark called for a
panel of experts to review budgets in the euro area, which could
form the “nucleus for a future European  finance ministry .”  The accord forged in Brussels came at the cost of
marginalizing the U.K. after Prime Minister  David Cameron 
refused to back the effort. The rift left leaders of the single-
currency union with the prospect of fashioning an accord among
themselves rather than amending the EU treaties. All nine of the
10 other non-euro members signaled they’ll go along with the
pact after consulting their parliaments.  Clegg’s Disappointment  U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , speaking on British
Broadcasting Corp.’s “Andrew Marr” program yesterday, said he
was “bitterly disappointed” by the summit result, which left
the U.K. “isolated and marginalized” in the EU.  Leaders for the first time extracted a contribution from
euro central banks of 150 billion euros toward the International
Monetary Fund’s general resources. Another 50 billion euros will
come from non-euro EU states. The accord’s signatories will
confirm within 10 days how they will channel funds to the IMF,
which could then be used to aid troubled European states. The
hope is that other countries will join the IMF effort, Merkel’s
government said today.  Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying said that  China  will
be part of international efforts to assist  Europe .  “Europe needs a partner, they come to sell their bonds,
that’s a partnership,” Fu, whose portfolio is European affairs,
told reporters in Vienna two days ago. “They have to work out
the terms, it should be a kind of relationship of cooperation.”  ‘Forbidden by Treaty’  Draghi praised a “very good outcome” in Brussels, a day
after he damped expectations that a deal would prompt the ECB to
step up its bond-buying activities. “The mandate for
redistributing taxpayer money among member states clearly does
not lie in monetary policy,” Weidmann at the Bundesbank said in
the newspaper interview published yesterday. “Financing of
sovereign debt through central banks is and remains forbidden by
treaty.”  Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann cast doubt on the
arrangement, telling the Salzburger Nachrichten newspaper that
the accord struck in Brussels lacked “enough firepower to have
a sustainable effect.” While the measures on budget discipline
are a “big step forward,” rules on regulating financial
markets, a European rating company and “European income via a
financial transaction tax” are still missing, he said.  “Basically the principles are right but the details are
missing,”      Wolfgang Franz , who heads Merkel’s council of economic
advisers, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “I am
convinced the specialists on this area will work out details
that will convince financial markets and they will get at least
less nervous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  