-- 
Burundi Coffee Farmers to Withhold Crop, Seek Station Control

-- B y   D e s i r e   N i m u b o n a
-- 
2011-12-11T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/burundi-coffee-farmers-to-withhold-crop-seek-station-control.html
Burundi’s coffee growers threatened
to stop selling produce unless they are granted a controlling
stake in the East African nation’s washing stations, said Joseph
Ntirampeba, president of the farmers’ association.  The country started selling its coffee-washing and
purification plants to closely held companies in 2009, with
Webcor Ltd., a Swiss company, buying 13 stations. Burundi in
November said it plans to sell the remaining 133 stations.  Farmers should hold a controlling stake in the plants as
they have paid a tax of 60 Burundian francs ($0.04) per kilogram
of coffee cherries since the 1980s to pay for the construction
of the stations, Ntirampeba, who leads the National Federation
of Coffee-Growing Associations of Burundi, known as  CNAC , said
by phone Dec. 9 from Bujumbura, the capital.  “We are not ready to give our coffee freely when we are
not really involved,” he said. “Coffee is our business, our
efforts, everything to us as it is grown on our lands and we
spend all the time working in it.”  Coffee output in Burundi, which grows mainly the arabica
variety and relies on the crop to generate more than half its
foreign-currency earnings, may drop 13 percent to 21,000 metric
tons this year amid declining plantings, the Burundi Coffee
Regulatory Agency said in June.  Production is falling because of a lack of motivation among
farmers, who are replacing the beans with other crops, according
to Ntirampeba.  Growers are “revolting against themselves” and will be
the first to suffer if the plants are destroyed, Finance
Ministry spokesman Joseph Ndayikeza said by phone from Bujumbura
on Dec. 9.  Arabica-coffee futures for March delivery snapped three
days of losses, adding 0.6 percent to $2.2725 a pound by 9:31
a.m. in  New York  on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Desire Nimubona in Bujumbura via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  