-- 
Republicans Say Congress Will Pass Payroll Tax Cut Extension

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-12-12T05:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/mcconnell-graham-predict-congress-will-pass-extension-of-payroll-tax-cut.html
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said Congress will reach an agreement that extends the
payroll tax cut even as he defended provisions in the House
proposal opposed by the Obama administration.  “I believe we should extend the payroll tax holiday
another year,” McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, said on “Fox
News Sunday.”  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, also
predicted that the payroll tax measure will pass.  “It won’t get expanded, it’ll get extended,” Graham said
in an appearance on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  If allowed to expire on Dec. 31, the payroll tax would
revert to 6.2 percent on the first $110,100 in wages for 2012,
up from 4.2 percent this year.  Extending the  tax cut  is “is the highest priority of the
president and of the Democrats in Congress,” Illinois
Democratic Senator Richard Durbin said on “Meet the Press.”  If the tax cut is allowed to expire, “it’s a new tax, an
added tax for average working people,” said Durbin, the
Senate’s second-ranking Democrat.  The issue of payroll taxes divided the six contenders at
the Republican debate in Iowa on Dec. 10.  Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , former Speaker
of the House Newt Gingrich and Texas Representative  Ron Paul 
support its extension. Texas Governor  Rick Perry , former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  and Minnesota Representative
Michelle Bachmann are opposed.  Pipeline Project  The House bill containing the payroll tax cut would also
expedite a decision by the administration on TransCanada Corp.’s
proposed Keystone XL pipeline, which would connect  Canada ’s oil
sands to refineries on the Gulf Coast. Environmental groups are
opposing the project.  The State Department, which has jurisdiction because the
pipeline crosses an international border, has said it will rule
on plan in 2013 to allow time to study a new route that avoids
the environmentally sensitive Sandhills region in Nebraska.  President  Barack Obama  has said he’ll reject legislation to
extend the payroll tax if the pipeline language is attached.  “We’d like to create some jobs and so we have the Keystone
pipeline in there,” McConnell said. “It’s a shovel-ready
project.”  While the Labor Department last week said the
 unemployment rate  fell to 8.6 percent in November, the lowest
since March 2009, Obama administration officials such as Alan
Kreuger, chairman of the White House Council of Economic
Advisers, said the global economy remains “in a fragile
state.”  The legislation would also require the Environmental
Protection Agency to delay new pollution rules for industrial
boilers. That proposal will save jobs, McConnell said.  Obama advisers have said they would recommend the president
veto a delay on the boiler rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  