-- 
China’s Shrinking Trade Surplus May Push Wen to Stimulus at Work Meeting

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-12T06:52:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/china-s-shrinking-trade-surplus-may-trigger-cuts-in-banks-reserve-ratios.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  and
officials meeting to map out economic policies for 2012 may be
encouraged to add more stimulus as a shrinking trade surplus
shows  Europe ’s debt crisis hitting exports.  Overseas shipments rose 13.8 percent in November from a
year earlier, the weakest growth since 2009, according to
customs data released Dec. 10 in Beijing. The excess of exports
over imports fell by 35 percent.  The decline in the surplus and signs that capital has
started to flow out of the country may prompt the government to
keep cutting banks’ reserve requirements to sustain growth.
Sliding exports to  Germany  and  Italy  weighed on gains in
shipments to emerging nations, and President Hu Jintao yesterday
marked 10 years in the  World Trade Organization  by warning that
the global economy faces “severe” challenges.  “ China ’s capital outflows will continue and the trade
surplus may shrink further, forcing the central bank to cut
reserve ratios” and use bill sales to inject liquidity and
bolster growth, said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist
at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. “It’s very likely China will see
a trade deficit in the next quarter,” said Shen, who previously
worked at the  International Monetary Fund  and the  European
Central Bank .  Shares Drop  Stocks in China fell for a third day on concern a slowdown
in growth is deepening and after the government said it will
maintain property curbs next year. The benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.5 percent to 2,304.80 at the 11:30 a.m.
local-time break, set for the lowest close since March 2009.  The yuan was trading 0.08 percent higher at 6.3594 per
dollar at 12:07 p.m. in  Shanghai  after the central bank set the
strongest  reference rate  in a month. Investors have pared
expectations for gains in the currency, with 12-month non-
deliverable forwards dropping 0.5 percent last week.  Last month’s rise in overseas shipments compared with the
10.9 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey and a
15.9 percent increase in October. Excluding distortions in
January and February each year, the advance was the smallest
since export growth resumed in December 2009. The expansion in
 imports  slowed to 22.1 percent and the trade surplus narrowed
more than estimated to $14.5 billion.  Europe Slows  Shipments to the European Union, China’s biggest market,
rose 5 percent from a year earlier, a quarter of the pace
reported in July and August. Sales to Germany, Europe’s biggest
economy, fell 1.6 percent and those to Italy dropped for a third
month. In contrast, exports to  Malaysia  rose 34.9 percent and
those to  Brazil  gained 26.4 percent.  China Cosco Holdings Co. (601919) , the nation’s largest operator of
dry-bulk and container vessels, warned on Oct. 27 it will report
a full-year loss as rates for carrying commodities and
containers have plunged.  China’s  economic expansion  could decline to 7.5 percent in
the three months through March from 9.1 percent in this year’s
third quarter, as export growth slows and the government’s
campaign to curb property prices damps investment, according to
Nomura Holdings Inc. The country may post a $28.8 billion trade
deficit next quarter, according to Zhang Zhiwei, the bank’s
chief China economist in  Hong Kong . That would be a record
quarterly shortfall, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
that goes back to January 1994.  Adding Liquidity  The central bank announced the first cut in lenders’
reserve requirements since 2008 on Nov. 30. Zhang estimates the
ratio, now 21 percent of deposits for the biggest banks, will be
lowered by 150 basis points in the first half of next year.
Standard Chartered Plc last week raised its projection for the
number of cuts by the end of 2012 to six from four, with the
first coming by the end of this year, providing an extra 2.4
trillion yuan ($378 billion) of liquidity for banks.  Foreign-exchange reserves  dropped in September for the
first time in 16 months and continued to decline through early
this month,  Li Yang , a former central bank adviser, said Dec. 7,
without specifying the source of his information.  A People’s Bank of China report last month showed financial
institutions’ purchases of foreign exchange dropped in October,
the first decline since December 2007, according to China
International Capital Corp. Analysts watch the number for signs
of so-called hot money flows.  Policy Fine Tuning  Purchases may remain low or even turn negative next year,
reflecting further declines in the  trade surplus , a slowdown in
property investment and a worsening euro-area economy, Peng Wensheng, a Hong Kong-based economist with CICC, said in a Dec.
8 note.  Countries should strengthen monitoring of systemic risks,
central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said at a conference in
Shanghai last week, according to a copy of his speech posted on
the PBOC’s website yesterday.  The Communist Party’s Politburo, the 25-member body that
oversees policy-making, said Dec. 9 it will “fine tune”
economic policies next year “as conditions change,” and will
make them more “targeted, flexible and forward-looking.” The
nation will maintain a “prudent” monetary policy and a
“proactive” fiscal policy, it said after a meeting chaired by
President  Hu Jintao , the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Inflation Cools  The announcement preceded the annual economic work
conference that maps out plans for development next year. It
started today, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  “The government is leaving its boilerplate language on
policy unchanged,” London-based Capital Economics Ltd. said in
a note. “In practice, easing has begun.”  Inflation cooled to 4.2 percent last month from a year
earlier and industrial output growth weakened, according to
statistics bureau data released Dec. 9, giving the government
more room to loosen policies.  China’s trade surplus, a source of friction with nations
including the U.S., has fallen from a peak of almost $300
billion in 2008. The commerce ministry said last month that it
may be as small as $150 billion this year.  In a speech yesterday, President Hu pledged to “actively”
expand imports to resolve imbalances with nations that have
“substantial” deficits with China.  The excess may disappear within two years as domestic
demand rises, making the yuan’s value less of an issue with
trading partners,  Li Daokui , an academic adviser to the central
bank, said last month. The currency may even face depreciation
pressure, he said in an interview.  --Li Yanping. With assistance from Victoria Ruan in Beijing.
Editors: Nerys Avery, Steve Bailey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  