-- 
China, India Vow Pollution Cuts in Big Climate Move

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-12-11T21:59:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/china-india-pledge-pollution-cuts-in-biggest-move-on-climate.html
(Corrects eighth paragraph to show compromise language in
the agreement.)  Developing nations led by China and
 India  pledged they’d work toward an agreement that would limit
their fossil fuel emissions for the first time, the biggest
advance in the fight against global warming in 14 years.  Envoys from more than 190 nations also extended the  Kyoto
Protocol , the only ratified treaty limiting greenhouse gases.
They will develop a document with “legal force” by 2015 that
would curb pollution for all nations, according to a  text 
adopted today in Durban,  South Africa .  The move breaks a division enshrined in the United Nations-
led discussions since 1992 that allowed the poorest nations to
escape commitments on burning coal and oil while requiring
industrial nations to clean up the atmosphere. That rift
prevented the U.S. from ratifying Kyoto, which is the heart of
the international effort to protect the environment.  “Historic is the word,” Grenadian ambassador  Dessima
Williams , lead negotiator for a coalition of 42 island nations,
said in an interview. “The idea that we got everybody to agree
to take some form of legal commitment is a major outcome.”  The talks dragged more than 28 hours past their scheduled
Dec. 9 finish as a division emerged between a coalition of more
than 120 nations backing a road map to a legally-binding deal
and China and India, which sought weaker language on the
eventual legal form of the pact. It was the longest meeting
since the climate talks began in 1992.  Near Collapse  Delegates slept in the corridors as the talks teetered on
the brink of collapse after the European Union, 42 island
nations and 48 of the poorest states said they couldn’t accept a
watered-down deal. India refused to sign an agreement that would
bind it to an unwritten treaty and threaten its economy.  “India will never be intimidated by threats,” India’s
Environment Minister Jayanthi Natarajan said in a passionate
speech to delegates this morning. “How do I give a blank check
and give a legally-binding agreement to sign away the rights of
1.2 billion people?”  The dispute exploded in the early hours of Sunday and was
defused when India and the EU agreed to substitute language
calling for “a protocol, another legal instrument or a legal
outcome” with “a protocol, another legal instrument or an agreed
outcome with legal force.” The protocol and instrument terms
echo the 1995 Berlin Mandate that set the course for delegates
adopting Kyoto two years later.  “This is a breakthrough decision,” said Tomasz Chruszczow, the envoy from  Poland , which holds the rotating
presidency of the European Union. “Efforts to fight  climate
change  will be made by all countries, not only the EU. This
won’t happen right now, but a process has been started.”  Wiggle Room  The U.S. initially suggested the “legal instrument” words
and backed the compromise, saying it was important to keep the
package of Durban measures on track. Environmental groups said
the words may let nations wiggle out of commitments.  “This weak compromise is a victory for the fossil
industry, which is successfully controlling the U.S. government
not agreeing to a legally binding protocol,” said Martin Kaiser, who analysis international climate policy for
Greenpeace.  Delegates who were mainly national environment ministers
agreed to work toward bringing the next treaty into effect from
2020. That proposal allowed the EU almost alone to say it would
make further commitments under Kyoto.  Boost for CDM  Extending Kyoto supports the Clean Development Mechanism, a
pillar of the global carbon market that came out of the treaty.
Prices of CDM certificates issued have fallen 54 percent in the
past year as the weaker economy cut demand for the offsets and
concern mounted about the continuation of the program.  Diplomats scaled back ambitions for this year’s meeting and
didn’t fix new commitments for doubling pledges to curtail
 greenhouse gases  by 2020, a measure the UN Environment Program
says is needed to keep global warming from exceeding 2 degrees
Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) since industrialization. That
infuriated the blocs of Latin American and island nations.  “We all know this is a very bad agreement that will need
more work,” Claudia Salerno, the Venezuelan envoy who helped
derail a decision at the talks in Copenhagen two years ago, said
during the debate last night. “We need to stop this farce of
lack of shame.”  Emissions of carbon dioxide from fossil fuels hit a record
last year, and 2011 is on track to be the 11th warmest ever.
Glaciers are retreating from  Tibet  to the Alps and  Mount
Kilimanjaro  in Tanzania, and sea levels are rising, causing
concern among island nations at risk of disappearing.  Low Ambition  “The ambition of the package is extremely low,”
Nicaraguan minister Paul Oquist Kelley said in an interview.
“It says this is a critical problem that’s time urgent, so
let’s do something about it in 10 years. You have low ambition,
low urgency. We’re ignoring what’s happening before our eyes.”  The meeting also:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in Durban, South Africa at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in Durban, South Africa at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  