-- 
China Committed to Open Up Economy: Hu

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-12-11T08:26:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/china-committed-to-open-up-economy-hu.html
China  will further open its economy
and “actively expand imports,” President  Hu Jintao  said at a
forum marking the country’s 10th anniversary of joining the
 World Trade Organization .  China will open agricultural, services and cultural
industries and place more emphasis on offering equal  market
access  to all types of businesses, Hu said today in a keynote
speech in Beijing. The country has completely fulfilled its
promises made to the WTO, he said.  Hu reiterated that China doesn’t “intentionally” chase a
 trade surplus  and that it aims to strengthen cooperation with
trading partners to reduce imbalances. He also repeated a call
for developed nations to ease controls on high-technology
exports and for “relevant countries” to recognize China’s
status as a market economy as soon as possible.  China joined the WTO in December 2001 following a 15-year
drive for membership in the rules-based trading system, after
committing to give foreign companies more access to the world’s
most-populous market. The government has pointed to lowered
trade tariffs, canceled import quotas and the opening of
financial and telecommunications industries to overseas
competition as examples of obligations met.  China remains the world’s biggest developing nation with
some “unbalanced” and “unsustainable” elements, which have
to be improved, Hu said.  ‘Proactive’ Role  Speaking before Hu at the same forum, WTO Director-General
Pascal Lamy called on China to play a more “proactive” role to
help tackle a worsening global economic crisis.  China should increase domestic consumption to rebalance its
development mode, Otaviano Canuto, vice president of the  World
Bank , said at the same forum. Naoyuki Shinohara, deputy managing
director at the  International Monetary Fund , said China should
raise wages, reform its financial industry and continue to
improve its exchange-rate mechanism.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  