-- 
China Marks 10 Years as WTO Member Amid Calls to Open Its Market Further

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-12-12T09:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/china-marks-10-years-as-wto-member-amid-eu-and-u-s-criticism.html
China’s decade in the  World Trade
Organization  thrust the nation into the top spot in industries
ranging from textiles to cars. The world’s No. 2 economy now
faces calls to open its market further and play by WTO rules.  China joined the Geneva-based WTO on Dec. 11, 2001, capping
a 15-year drive to join the rules-based trading system and
giving foreign companies from  Yum! Brands Inc.  and  General
Motors Co.  to  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  a bigger foothold
in the world’s most-populous market.  Since then, China has become the world’s biggest exporter
and second-largest importer. Trade in goods such as clothing,
electronics, toys and appliances soared to almost $3 trillion
last year from $510 billion in 2001, with both exports and
imports growing almost fivefold.  “This spectacular rise would not have been possible
without the open global trading system that China was able to
benefit from during the past 10 years,” said European Union
Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht.  “At the same time, China is having to increasingly
recognize and respect not only the legal responsibilities it now
faces as a member of a global rules-based body, but also the WTO
‘spirit’ of promoting open markets and non-discriminatory
principles in its domestic legislation, and the enforcement of
it,”  De Gucht  said in an e-mailed statement from Brussels.  Clothing, Cars  China’s textile exports amounted to $77 billion in 2010, or
31 percent of the world’s total, and its garment shipments were
worth $130 billion, or 37 percent, data released by the WTO
show. The nation, which overtook the U.S. in car production and
sales in 2009, will sell more than 18 million vehicles in 2011
even as deliveries rise the least in 13 years, the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers said on Dec. 9.  Foreign financing in China has climbed to more than $700
billion in the last decade while Chinese investments overseas
surged to $60 billion in 2010 from less than $1 billion in 2000,
Assistant Commerce Minister Yu Jianhua said last month.  Europe  is second only to the U.S. in the number of trade
disputes with China at the WTO. The 27-nation EU has filed five
 complaints  against China over raw materials, auto parts and
duties on steel fasteners while the U.S. has lodged 12, and the
bloc imposes anti-dumping duties on almost 60 products from
China, more than any other nation.  ‘Intimidation’  The U.S. has been the most vocal critic of Chinese policies
including what the Obama administration views as its too-slow
appreciation of the yuan. China’s  trade surplus  with the U.S.,
which has helped the country accumulate a record $3.2 trillion
in foreign-exchange reserves and made it the U.S.’s biggest
overseas creditor, remains an irritant in relations between the
world’s two largest economies.  China  uses “intimidation” in its trade policy and has
retreated from free-market reforms and moved toward more state
control of its economy, U.S. Ambassador Michael Punke told a
meeting of the WTO’s General Council on Nov. 30. He made the
remarks during the final annual review of how well China has
complied with pledges it made to join the WTO.  There is a “perception among WTO members that Chinese
government authorities at times use intimidation as a trade
tool,” Punke said. “China seems to be embracing state
capitalism more strongly each year, rather than continuing to
move toward the economic reform goals that originally drove its
pursuit of WTO membership.”  ‘We Need Evidence’  Yi Xiaozhun, China’s ambassador to the WTO, dismissed
Punke’s comments.  “I don’t know what he’s talking about,” Yi said in a Dec.
7 interview at China’s mission in Geneva. “We need evidence.”  When China joined the WTO, it promised to make sweeping
changes such as overhauling state-owned enterprises by ending
monopolies and special treatment, slashing tariffs and prying
open its markets and industries to foreign competition. While
much work has been done, more remains, Yi said.  “The biggest challenge for us is to continue our opening-
up process and deepen our economic reform domestically,” he
said. “China benefited a lot from its opening, so we know that
we will continue to do it for our own interest, and we also hope
other countries, especially our major trading partners, will do
the same.”  All WTO members agree to make concessions during accession
talks and China was no exception, said David Hartridge, a senior
trade policy adviser for the law firm White & Case LLP in Geneva
and a former WTO official.  ‘Growth Miracle’  “It made substantial concessions and political commitments
which might not have been easy to implement and, some would say,
aren’t fully implemented yet,” he said by phone. “One thing
that clearly has not happened, as some people feared, is that
China would be a disruptive element, a great economic power with
a very strong tradition of centralized control.”  While China has enjoyed a “growth miracle” that predates
its entry into the WTO, the country now needs to step up as a
mature trading partner, said  Pascal Lamy , the trade arbiter’s
director general.  “As a global power, it is only natural that the
expectations of other countries on China have also grown,” Lamy
said at a forum in Beijing yesterday. “With today’s economic
difficulties across the world, resolve and leadership are in
desperate need. We all need a proactive China.”  China spent the weekend celebrating its 10 years as a
member of the global trade community. That’s because millions of
Chinese have enjoyed a better quality of life since their
country became the WTO’s  143rd member , Yi said.  “Our economic growth went beyond our expectations,” he
said. “The annual growth rate is around 10 percent and more
than 200 million Chinese people were lifted out of poverty.
That’s a marvelous achievement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 