-- 
College Sports Need a Government Intervention: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-12-11T16:02:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/college-sports-need-a-government-intervention-albert-r-hunt.html
U.S. politicians love to celebrate,
not chastise, big-time college athletics.  There were two exceptions: More than 100 years ago, when
President  Theodore Roosevelt  intervened to clean up the
brutality of college football, and almost 40 years ago, when
Congress passed Title IX, requiring colleges and universities to
allocate a fair share of their athletic budgets to women. Both
worked.  Washington may be about to step in again. Top-level
intercollegiate athletics, particularly football and basketball,
are corrosively corrupt: cheating, paying players under the
table and taking advantage of other athletes, while turning a
blind eye to criminal activities, including, most recently, the
sexual abuse of children.  The driving force is money; academic values are secondary.
The term student athlete too often is a travesty. Powerful
coaches run roughshod over academics, including college
presidents.  Pennsylvania State University  is illustrative. The fabled
football coach,  Joe Paterno , the president and the athletic
director have been fired for covering up the alleged systemic
abuse of young boys by one of the former assistant football
coaches.  What makes the story more astonishing is that Paterno and
 Penn State  were considered among the better people and programs
in college football.  Money-Making Machine  At the core, it’s about a lack of accountability. Penn
State football games draw more than 100,000 fans into Beaver
Stadium and the sport came to overshadow the university itself.
Anything that threatened that money-making machine was swept
under the rug. Penn State football was insular and arrogant.
Coach Paterno was accountable only to himself.  Weeks after scandal erupted at Penn State, similar charges
surfaced at  Syracuse University . This time, they involved a
powerhouse basketball team. An assistant coach was charged with
sexually abusing boys. The omnipotent head coach, Jim Boeheim,
called the accusers liars and implied it was all a shakedown.  “I’m not Joe Paterno” he said, adding, “nobody can keep
me quiet.”  One alleged victim said Boeheim saw him in a hotel room on
a trip with the accused assistant coach. When evidence came out
buttressing some of the charges, Boeheim’s credibility
plummeted. The basketball program at Syracuse is a smaller
universe than Penn State football. Probably sensing the threat,
the head coach changed his tune, saying he regretted the angry
charges he had leveled at the alleged abuse victims. The
assistant coach was fired, but so far the Syracuse chancellor is
vowing support for Boeheim and the lucrative program.  No Accountability  Although there are no suggestions that the abuse of kids
was involved, the cherished college basketball programs in
 Kentucky  offer other examples of lack of accountability.  At the University of Louisville, Rick Pitino, one of the
game’s more successful coaches, stresses family values, travels
with a priest and in another job featured the Pope in his
basketball guide. In 2009, he admitted that he had sex with a
woman in a local bar and to later giving her $3,000 either for,
in his account, health insurance or, by her account, for an
abortion. The woman later was convicted of extortion. He was
depicted as the victim, and she went to jail. He’s still highly
compensated and celebrated by the university.  In Lexington, 76 miles away, the University of Kentucky’s
coach, John Calipari, is treated like a god. Before coming to
UK, he took two other teams to the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association ’s Final Four Men’s Championship. Both successes were
later vacated because of cheating violations. Kentucky is now a
basketball factory, bringing in great high school players who
stay for a year, win games and turn professional. The president
of this academic institution showers praise on the coach.  Ohio State  When accusations of NCAA rules violations were leveled
against Ohio State’s powerful football coach,  Jim Tressel , a few
years ago, the university president, Gordon Gee, was asked if he
was considering firing him.  Gee’s reply: “I’m just hoping the coach doesn’t dismiss
me.”  Ultimately, Tressel was forced to resign. Buckeye fans now
are celebrating the hiring last month of the legendary former
 Florida  coach Urban Meyer. When Meyer was at Florida, in
addition to winning two national titles, 25 of his players were
arrested during his tenure, half on charges of felonies or
violent misdemeanors.  No Playoffs  And then there’s the fiasco called the Bowl Championship
Series, or BCS, where, based on financial interests, major
universities and colleges decide who is going to play for the
national championship and in post-season bowl games. Unlike
almost every other college sport, there’s no playoff system.
Defenders of the BCS say playoffs would hurt student athletes
even though they would be held during the holiday season when
schools aren’t in session.  Lawmakers led by Utah Republican Senator Orrin Hatch
successfully persuaded the  Justice Department  to consider the
antitrust implications of the BCS and college athletics.  On the other side of the spectrum, U.S. Representative
Bobby Rush, a liberal Illinois Democrat, has likened the
governing body of intercollegiate athletics to  Al Capone  and the
Mafia. He called the NCAA “one of the most vicious, most
ruthless organizations ever created by mankind.” Representative
 Joe Barton , a conservative Texas Republican, and Representative
 Steve Cohen , a liberal Democrat from  Tennessee , are forming an
anti-BCS caucus.  Take Charge  It probably would be foolish for Congress to legislate. No
one has devised a sensible policy initiative. Oversight hearings
with the power of subpoena are likely and easier to justify.
Some of the most prestigious U.S. universities are participants
in a system that debases academic values.  The best palliative would be for university presidents to
take charge of their football and basketball coaches and
athletic directors.  With all the money at stake, that’s unlikely. Several years
ago, well before the sex abuse scandal broke, the president of
Penn State, Graham Spanier, went to the home of Paterno, who was
then 77, and asked him to retire. He was sent away.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 