-- 
Oil Falls on Europe’s Sovereign Debt Crisis as Moody’s to Review Ratings

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-12-12T13:16:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/crude-oil-trades-little-changed-near-two-day-high-in-new-york.html
Oil fell, extending last week’s
decline, on concern the European debt crisis may spread and as
Moody’s Investors Service said it will review ratings for
countries in the region.  Futures dropped as much as 1.5 percent in New York, adding
to the 1.5 percent loss in the five days to Dec. 9. Last week’s
European Union summit offered few new measures and doesn’t
diminish the risk of credit-ranking revisions, Moody’s said
today. EU leaders will have to quickly implement an agreement to
strengthen budget rules to regain market confidence, according
to German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble .  “We expect prices to stay under pressure as long as macro-
fears stay high,”  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research
at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by phone. “At the moment
it’s Europe, providing contagion that other countries will be
dragged into it, that’s keeping demand away.  China ’s growth may
disappoint if European jitters continue.”  Crude for January delivery declined as much as $1.52 to
$97.89 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract pared earlier losses to trade at $98.46
at 1:06 p.m. London time. Prices are up 7.8 percent this year
after climbing 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for January settlement lost as much as $1.62, or
1.5 percent, to $107 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange before recovering to $108.09, down 53 cents. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $9.58 to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade. The spread was a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Europe Accord  Euro-area policy makers will focus on implementing last
week’s accord to strengthen budget rules and provide an
additional 200 billion euros ($267 billion) to the euro fund as
quickly as possible, Schaeuble told ARD television yesterday.  The 27 member states of the European Union accounted for 16
percent of global oil demand last year, based on BP Plc’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S., the world’s
largest oil user, consumed 19.1 million barrels a day, or 21
percent of the total.  “As long as the euro zone can’t get an agreement the
market can believe in, the risk appetite will remain high,”
Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo, said by
phone.  Equities Fall  The  Stoxx  Europe 600 Index dropped 0.8 percent while
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures lost 0.9 percent. The euro
depreciated 1 percent to $1.3253. The 10-year  Italian bond  yield
jumped 42 basis points after the government sold 7 billion euros
($9.3 billion) of bills. The cost of insuring against default on
European government debt approached a record high.  Oil in  New York  has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. This indicator is at about $97.80 a barrel today. Buy
orders tend to be clustered near chart-support levels.  OPEC oil ministers began arriving in Vienna before a
meeting to be held in the city on Dec. 14. Saudi Arabia’s oil
minister is expected to arrive later today.  Iran ,  Libya   Iran’s Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said some members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries should reduce
output to accommodate the return of shipments from Libya and
increased Iraqi exports, according to a report yesterday by the
state-run Mehr news agency. Eleven of OPEC’s 12 members, all
except  Iraq , have formal production targets.  Libya pumped 500,000 barrels a day in November, from a low
of 45,000 barrels in the midst of the rebellion against former
leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Iraq’s daily output last month reached
2.7 million barrels, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest state-owned exporter,
will supply full volumes of crude under term contracts to buyers
in  Asia  and Europe next month, according to refinery officials
with knowledge of the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  