-- 
Dubai Shares Gain Most in Week on MSCI Optimism, Europe; Emaar Advances

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-12-11T14:53:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/dubai-shares-surge-most-in-week-on-msci-optimism-europe-emaar-advances.html
Dubai shares rose the most in a week
amid optimism the United Arab Emirates may be upgraded to
emerging-market status by  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  this week and as European
leaders agreed on measures to contain the region’s debt crisis.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper in Dubai, climbed for a third day.  Drake & Scull
International (DSI)  PJSC rose to the highest level in a month after
its Saudi Arabian unit won a contract. The benchmark  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  advanced 0.9 percent, the biggest gain since Dec. 4, to
1,396.97 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General
Index (ADSMI)  rose 0.7 percent. Israel’s TA-25 Index increased 1.5
percent, the most since Dec. 5.  U.S. stocks rose last week, sending the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index to its first back-to-back weekly gain since October,
after European leaders agreed to boost a rescue fund and reports
spurred optimism about the U.S. economy. The  European Central
Bank  lowered interest rates last week and said it may do more to
stimulate bank lending and fight off a recession.  “A combination of effects are pushing U.A.E. markets
higher this morning: positive sentiment regarding EU talks,
solid performance from  Saudi Arabia  yesterday and some
speculative buying ahead of the MSCI decision at the end of the
week,” said Julian Bruce, Dubai-based equity sales head at EFG-
Hermes Holding SAE.  Saudi Arabia’s Tadwaul All Share Index declined 0.2 percent
today after closing yesterday at the highest level since Aug. 3.  MSCI Upgrade  MSCI plans to announce on Dec. 14 whether it will upgrade
the U.A.E. and Qatar to emerging-market status from frontier
status. Essa Kazim, chief executive officer of Dubai Financial
Market PJSC, the only publicly traded exchange in the six-nation
Gulf Cooperation Council, said Dec. 4 he doesn’t see any
difficulties to the U.A.E. getting the upgrade.  Crude oil for January delivery rose $1.07 to settle at
$99.41 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange on Dec. 9,
the biggest gain since Nov. 29. The GCC, which includes the
U.A.E., is home to about one-fifth of the world’s proven oil
reserves.  Emaar climbed 3.3 percent to 2.86 dirhams. Drake & Scull
added 1.2 percent to 84 fils. The Saudi unit’s contract has a
value of 130 million riyals ($35 million).  The Bloomberg GCC 200 Index lost 0.2 percent and Bahrain’s
gauge fell less than 0.1 percent. Kuwait’s benchmark declined
0.2 percent. Oman’s measure increased 0.8 percent, while Qatar’s
 QE Index (DSM)  was little changed.  Egypt’s  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  lost 0.2 percent.  Israel’s benchmark bonds declined, with the yield on the
5.5 percent notes due January 2022 advancing two basis points to
4.70 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  