-- 
Early Hodgkin Lymphoma Patients Can Skip Radiation Therapy, Study Finds

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-12-11T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/early-hodgkin-s-lymphoma-patients-can-skip-radiation-therapy-study-finds.html
Patients with early stages of
Hodgkin lymphoma should get only chemotherapy to treat the
cancer because adding radiation leads to higher death rates,
according to a Canadian and U.S. study.  The research, released today by the  New England Journal of
Medicine  and being presented at the American Society of
Hematology meeting in  San Diego , found that 94 percent of
patients getting chemotherapy were alive after 12 years compared
with 87 percent of those who got radiation alone or in addition
to the drugs.  The findings are good news for patients diagnosed with
early Hodgkin lymphoma, a cancer of the lymphatic system, who
can skip the more toxic part of a treatment regimen that has
been a standard, said  Ralph Meyer , the lead study author.
Radiation can cause secondary cancers, lead to  heart disease  and
damage cardiac valves years after treatment, the researchers
said.  “This really proves the concept that chemotherapy alone in
the long term can be a more effective therapy in terms of
allowing patients to live longer than treatment that includes
radiation,” Meyer, a professor in the Department of Oncology at
Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario, and director of the
NCIC Clinical Trials Group, said in a Dec. 9 telephone
interview. “Instead of being an option that probably practicing
physicians have some degree of discomfort with, I think it now
becomes the preferred option.”  The study was funded by the Canadian Cancer Society and the
U.S. National Cancer Institute.  Curable Cancer  Hodgkin lymphoma  is one of the most curable forms of
cancer, especially if it’s diagnosed early, according to the
U.S. National Institutes of Health. More than 90 percent of
people with the early forms of the disease will live for at
least 10 years.  About  8,830 people  will be diagnosed with the cancer in the
U.S. and 1,300 will die from the disease this year, according to
the cancer institute. The cause isn’t known but it is most
common in people ages 15 to 35 and those 50 to 70.  Researchers randomly assigned 405 people with early stage
Hodgkin lymphoma to receive chemotherapy or radiation with or
without chemotherapy. The patients were followed for up to 12
years.  During the course of the study, 12 patients who received
chemotherapy alone died, including six who died of Hodgkin
lymphoma, while 24 in the radiation group died, including four
who died of the disease. Of those who received chemotherapy
alone, four died of a secondary cancer, while 10 in the
radiation group died of another cancer, the authors said.  The research also showed that more people in the radiation
group had secondary cancers and cardiac events than those
getting chemotherapy alone.  Next Step  The next step is to come up with a better way to identify
Hodgkin lymphoma patients who are likely to need radiation
beyond chemotherapy to fight their cancer. Meyer estimates that
chemotherapy alone will be insufficient for 10 percent to 12
percent of patients with the disease.  Doctors now use radiation that is more targeted to the
cancer and less powerful than that used during the study. Still,
it’s unclear what those effects will be a decade from now, said
 David Straus , an attending physician at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center  and a professor of clinical medicine at Weill
Cornell Medical College in  New York , who wrote an accompanying
editorial in the journal.  Today’s research, he said, is important and helps support
doctors who are trying to limit  radiation exposure  for their
patients.  “Radiation therapy was the real breakthrough for early
stage Hodgkin’s lymphoma -- that was the first thing that
resulted in long-term cures,” he said in a Dec. 9 telephone
interview. “Over the last 30-40 years, we’ve been sort of
backing away from that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  