-- 
Medvedev to ‘Check Procedures’ Amid Alleged Poll Violations

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-12-11T15:27:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/medvedev-to-check-procedures-amid-alleged-poll-violations-1-.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
said accusations of fraud that led to large protests following
last weekend’s parliamentary elections should be investigated.  Medvedev’s call, which echoes a similar statement he made
on Dec. 6, follows nationwide protests yesterday when tens of
thousands gathered in Moscow to demonstrate against alleged
electoral fraud.  “People have a right to express their position which they
did yesterday,” Medvedev  said  on his Facebook page today. “I
do not agree with any slogans or statements made at rallies.
Nevertheless, I have been instructed to check the procedures
with the polling stations regarding compliance with the
legislation on elections.”  Twenty-five thousand people gathered in central Moscow
yesterday in near-freezing temperatures. There were no
detentions or violence, police said. Several thousand
demonstrated in  St. Petersburg  and more than 15,000 in about 30
other cities across the world’s biggest country by area, RIA
Novosti reported.  The Organization for Security and Cooperation in  Europe ,
the continent’s democracy watchdog, the U.S.,  Germany  and the
European Union criticized alleged violations during the Dec. 4
vote.  In Moscow, Europe’s largest city, the official results gave
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s United Russia party more than 46
percent of the vote, compared with 27.5 percent in an exit poll
by the Public Opinion Foundation.  Medvedev’s human-rights council said it was “extremely
concerned” about fraud complaints against the parliamentary
poll and the vote should be repeated if the violations were
serious enough to alter the results, according to a statement on
the panel’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  