-- 
Egypt Military Says It Has ‘No Opinion’ on Committee to Draft Constitution

-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 
2011-12-11T16:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/egypt-military-says-it-has-no-opinion-on-committee-to-draft-constitution.html
Egypt ’s ruling military council said
it would have “no opinion” regarding the members of the
committee charged with drafting a new constitution and will
respect the results of parliamentary elections.  Council member Major General Mamdouh Shahin said the only
body authorized to form the committee is parliament and its
elected members. Shahin’s comments were posted yesterday on the
website of the Egypt State Information Service.  Shahin’s comments come after the  Associated Press  cited a
member of the council as saying that parliament won’t be
representative enough to oversee the drafting of a constitution
and that the army would appoint a group to check the influence
of religious extremists on the process.  The military council has been facing renewed pressure to
accelerate the transition to civilian rule after opposition
groups said it hadn’t relinquished enough authority following
President  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster in February.  A civilian council that is to advise the military on issues
during the transition named a former information minister,
Mansour Hassan, as its president, Sameh Ashour, one of two
deputy heads also named today, said in a telephone interview.  The military council swore in a new cabinet last week and
gave Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri presidential powers,
excluding oversight of the military and judiciary. The army has
said it will remain the ultimate authority in Egypt until a
president is elected next year.  Road Map  Shahin also reiterated the military council’s commitment to
the road map it drew up for the transition period ending June
30.  The Arab world’s most-populous country is in the early
stages of elections that may give Islamist groups the largest
share of seats in parliament in January.  The government that emerges in the coming months must
tackle an economy that grew at the slowest pace in at least a
decade as a result of the unrest that forced Mubarak out in
February and deterred tourism and investment. Gross domestic
product expanded 1.8 percent in the fiscal year through June,
and Egypt has spent almost half its foreign currency reserves in
the past 11 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at   rhamade@bloomberg.net  