-- 
Energy Stocks in N.Y. Buck Hong Kong Plunge: China Overnight

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 
2011-12-11T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/energy-stocks-in-n-y-buck-hong-kong-plunge-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in the U.S.
rose Dec. 9 for the first day in four, paring losses for the
week, as European efforts to stem the region’s debt crisis
boosted energy and materials companies to a premium over Hong
Kong shares.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks gained 1.3 percent and finished the week down 1.1 percent.
 Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., (YZC)   China ’s fourth-largest producer of the
fuel, led gains for energy companies, adding 4 percent, and
traded at the third-largest premium to the Asian shares among
companies in the index.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the nation’s largest
offshore oil producer, gained 2.1 percent to $193.98.  European leaders expanded a bailout fund and agreed to a
closer fiscal union to fight the crisis on Dec. 9. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the deal puts  Europe  on the path
toward a “lastingly stable euro.” U.S. stocks gained for a
second week as  consumer confidence  exceeded estimates.  “Even though we didn’t get a bazooka-type resolution,
they’re certainly moving forward and they’re building a
framework for a resolution,” said Tim Hall, a managing director
at Deltec Asset Management in New York. “It’s more bullish for
commodities.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , which tracks Chinese
companies listed in Hong Kong, fell the most in a month on Dec.
9, losing 3.2 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic
shares reached the lowest level since March 2009 after dropping
0.6 percent.  Industrial Production  The stock measures fell as Chinese industrial output
increased at the slowest pace in November since August 2009.
Production rose 12.4 percent, trailing the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Inflation cooled for a fourth
month as consumer prices rose 4.2 percent, lower than all 35
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc. said a slowdown in China’s domestic
consumption and overseas demand has been faster than expected
this quarter. The brokerage cited feedback from retailers and
manufacturers at a  Hong Kong  conference.  Chinese materials companies in the U.S. rose 2.9 percent,
the best performance among nine  industry groups . Three companies
gained for every one that declined in the China-US index.  Investors may be turning to energy and material companies
believing that they will benefit from increased demand as the
global economy expands, said Richard Kang, chief investment
officer at Emerging Global Advisors in New York. “If you are in
the business of widget making, whether you are making cars or
whatever, you need steel, you need copper and you need oil if
you are going to ramp up.”  Cnooc, PetroChina  Yanzhou Coal led energy stocks higher, cutting its losses
for the week to 2.3 percent. The American depositary receipts,
which represent 10 ordinary shares, climbed to $23.05, while the
Hong Kong shares declined to HK$17.58, the equivalent of $2.26.  Cnooc ADRs, which are worth 100 ordinary shares, rose 2.1
percent on Dec. 9 to $193.98 and gained for a second week. The
Hong Kong shares slid to HK$14.78, or the equivalent of $1.90.
One hundred Hong Kong shares cost about $3.98 less than the U.S.
equivalent.  PetroChina Co. (PTR) , the country’s second-largest oil
refiner, rose 0.4 percent to $124.58, which is a 3 cent premium
to the Hong Kong-traded shares.  Aluminum Corporation of China Ltd. (ACH) , the nation’s biggest
aluminum-maker, rose 3.1 percent, the most among materials
companies in the China-US index.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  gave back part of Thursday’s
20 percent surge, falling 6.6 percent, the most among companies
in the Bloomberg measure. China’s largest online bookseller’s
plan to introduce an e-book platform will have a “minimal”
effect on the company’s 2012 results, Adam Krejcik, an analyst
at  Roth Capital Partners , wrote in a Dec. 9 research note.  ‘Proactive’ Fiscal Policy  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , a Chinese solar panel maker, added the
most in a week, rising 6.1 percent to $7.96. The company may
benefit if China boosts stimulus spending after reports showed
economic weakness, said Hari Chandra Polavarapu, an analyst at
Auriga USA LLC in New York.  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., increased 1.7 percent to
$36.30. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 1.7 percent in
New York, advancing for a second week.  The Chinese yuan was little changed at 6.3647 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The yuan has advanced 3.8 percent this year, the best
performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the
yen.  China will maintain a “prudent” monetary policy and a
“proactive” fiscal policy next year, the official Xinhua news
agency reported Dec. 9, citing a meeting of the Communist
Party’s Politburo chaired by President Hu Jintao. China will
“preset or fine tune policies in light of changes in economic
development,” Xinhua reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  