-- 
Euro Leaders Hail Accord as Bundesbank Cools

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-12-11T17:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/euro-leaders-hail-fiscal-accord-as-bundesbank-cools-ecb-bond-purchase-talk.html
European leaders pressed the case
that a new fiscal accord will deliver the region from its two-
year debt crisis, as  Germany ’s top central banker cooled
speculation the  European Central Bank  will extend its role.  The post-crisis single currency will be “more robust”
following the Dec. 9 agreement to strengthen budget rules,
 Finland ’s Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  told YLE Radio Suomi.
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann told the  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung  that while the new accord represents
progress, the onus is on governments rather than the Frankfurt-
based ECB to resolve the crisis with financial backing.  “The mandate for redistributing taxpayer money among
member states clearly does not lie in monetary policy,”
Weidmann told the newspaper in an interview published today.
“Financing of sovereign debt through central banks is and
remains forbidden by treaty.”  The Franco-German-led agreement, which provides tighter
budget rules and an additional 200 billion euros ($267 billion)
to the euro warchest, is part of an effort to reassure investors
that European leaders are able to master the crisis. ECB
President  Mario Draghi  lauded the accord, stoking hopes among
investors that the central bank might step up bond purchases.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the accord set the region on
a path to a “lastingly stable euro” after European leaders
convened in Brussels, adding that “the breakthrough to a stable
union has been achieved.” The U.K. decided to remain outside
the new framework.  Mixed Response  Investors gave a mixed reaction before the weekend.
 European stocks  rose, while the euro pared gains on speculation
that national authorities will struggle to implement the
agreement. Yields on  Italy ’s 10-year notes rose 8 basis points
to 6.53 percent, while  Spain ’s gained 3 basis points to 5.85
percent.  The accord opens the way for the ECB to intensify its role
in the crisis, Irish Deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore  said in
an interview with Dublin-based broadcaster RTE. He also said the
country could hold a referendum on the new pact if needed, once
the final text of the new rules was agreed.  “If in certain circumstances that requires a referendum,
then we’ll we have a referendum,” Gilmore said.  The British Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s refusal to back
the effort opened a rift in the 27-member block, leaving the
leaders of the single-currency union to fashion an accord among
each other rather than amending the EU treaties. Nine of the
other 10 non-euro members signaled they’ll go along with the
pact after consulting their parliaments.  ‘Isolated and Marginalized’  U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , speaking on British
Broadcasting Corp.’s “Marr” program today, said he was
“bitterly disappointed” by the summit result, which left the
U.K. “isolated and marginalized within the European Union.”
Still, the leader of Britain’s smaller coalition party, the pro-
EU  Liberal Democrats , ruled out a breakup of Britain’s ruling
coalition.  Leaders for the first time extracted a contribution from
euro central banks of 150 billion euros toward the International
Monetary Fund’s general resources. Another 50 billion euros will
come from non-euro EU states. The accord’s signatories will
confirm within 10 days how they will channel funds to the IMF,
which could then be used to aid troubled European states.  Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Fu Ying said that  China  will
be part of international efforts to assist Europe.  ‘Very Good Outcome’  “Europe needs a partner, they come to sell their bonds,
that’s a partnership,” Fu, whose portfolio is European affairs,
told reporters in Vienna yesterday. “They have to work out the
terms, it should be a kind of relationship of cooperation.”  Europe will complete the language of the new rulebook by
March and will reassess plans to cap the overall lending of the
permanent rescue facility, the European Stability Mechanism, at
500 billion euros. They brought forward the operation of the
fund to next year.  Draghi praised a “very good outcome” in Brussels, a day
after he dampened expectations that a deal would prompt the ECB
to step up its bond-buying activities.  Europe ’s top central
banker said the European bailout fund had to provide the
firewall.  Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann cast doubt on the
arrangement, telling the Salzburger Nachrichten newspaper that
the accord struck in Brussels lacked “firepower.”  “The decisions don’t have enough firepower to have a
sustainable effect,” Faymann told the Salzburg-based paper.
While the measures on budget discipline are a “big step
forward,” rules on regulating financial markets, a European
rating company and “European income via a financial transaction
tax” are still missing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  