-- 
Euro Slumps to Two-Month Low

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-12-12T22:16:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/euro-weakens-before-german-investor-confidence-data-italy-s-bill-auction.html
The euro fell to the lowest level in
two months versus the dollar as Moody’s Investors Service said
it will review the ratings of European Union nations after last
week’s summit failed to produce decisive steps to end the debt
crisis.  The dollar and yen strengthened against a majority of their
most-traded counterparts as investors sought safer assets on
concern crisis-fighting efforts are failing to stop European
borrowing costs from rising. Sweden’s krona weakened as stocks
declined amid reduced demand for higher-yielding investments.
China’s yuan appreciated after the nation’s central bank
signaled the currency will be allowed to trade more freely.  “It’s been an ongoing erosion of optimism after the EU
leaders’ announcement,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency
strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York . “As markets
continued to digest the announcement, they started taking a more
negative view, which was reinforced by comments by Moody’s. It’s
a fairly risk-off day.”  The euro fell 1.5 percent to $1.3187 at 5 p.m. in New York,
touching the lowest level since Oct. 4. The currency slid 1.1
percent to 102.76 yen. The dollar advanced 0.4 percent to 77.94
yen.  The euro has fallen 1.6 percent in the past month, the
biggest loser among 10 developed-nation currencies according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 3.1
percent, the best performer, and the yen advanced 2.1 percent.  Bond Yields  Italian bonds slid as the nation sold 7 billion euros ($9.3
billion) of one-year bills to yield 5.95 percent, compared with
an  average  2.70 percent in the past five years. The securities
fell even after the  European Central Bank  was said to have
bought the nation’s debt. Italy has to repay about 53 billion
euros in the first quarter, about a third of the region’s
maturing bonds.  Sweden’s krona fell to the weakest this month versus the
dollar as the Standary & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.5 percent.  The krona dropped 2.2 percent to 6.8737 per dollar after
sliding to 6.8266, the weakest since Nov. 30. It depreciated 0.7
percent to 9.0648 per euro.  The euro fell to the lowest level in nine months against
the pound, dropping below 85 pence. It sunk 0.9 percent to 84.62
and touched 84.52 pence, the lowest level since Feb. 23.  Market Mood  “The market continues to be disappointed by the
developments in Europe late last week.” said  Omer Esiner , chief
market analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange
Inc., a currency brokerage. “As investors continue to digest
the latest details of the EU agreement, the plan continues to
come up short in terms of near-term measures that will aid the
stresses in the sovereign credit markets.”  Brazil ’s real dropped the most against the dollar among the
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It lost 2.6 percent to
1.8440 per dollar.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  dropped 1.5 percent and
crude oil fell 1.5 percent to $97.88 a barrel.  Yields  on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury bond fell five basis points to 2.01
percent.  The yuan rose after the Financial News reported Xuan Changneng, head of the People’s Bank of  China ’s financial
stability bureau, as saying policy makers will maintain
flexibility while pushing forward with interest-rate and
exchange-rate reform.  “The PBOC’s comment quelled investors’ depreciation
expectations after the weaker export growth,” said Kenix Lai, a
currency analyst at Bank of East Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong  “The
stronger fixing also shows that China will still allow gains in
the currency, even though the pace may slow.”  The yuan gained 0.05 percent to 6.3609 per dollar, after
falling 0.08 percent last week.  European Plan  European leaders unveiled a blueprint after meetings on
Dec. 8 and 9 for a closer fiscal accord, adding 200 billion
euros to their bailout fund and tightening rules to curb future
debts. They also said they would start a 500 billion-euro rescue
fund next year.  The agreement offered few additional measures and doesn’t
diminish the risk of credit-ranking revisions, Moody’s said in
its Weekly Credit Outlook. “Our intention as announced in
November is to revisit the level and dispersion of ratings
during the first quarter of 2012,” the company said.  S&P’s put the EU’s AAA rating on “creditwatch negative”
last week after similar action on 15 of the 17 euro nations,
pending the outcome of last week’s summit and the actions of
central bankers.  Fitch Ratings  said today, without taking any action, that
the summit did little to ease pressure on  Europe ’s sovereign
bond ratings.  Merk Investments LLC cut the euro position of its Hard
Currency Fund to 14 percent, the lowest in the fund’s six-year
history, citing the need for more banking system support in
Europe amid the region’s crisis.  “Only when the banking system is secure enough, that’s
when the market is going to quiet down,”  Axel Merk , the
president and chief investment officer of the eponymous firm,
said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom
Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “As long as there’s no focus, we’ll get
this grinding down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  