-- 
Sheila Bair Said to Be Top Pick for Foreclosure Accord Monitor

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-12-12T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/ex-fdic-chief-bair-said-to-be-a-top-pick-to-monitor-any-foreclosure-deal.html
Ex-Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  is a top candidate among state officials to
ensure banks comply with any settlement of a nationwide
foreclosure probe, a person familiar with the matter said.  Bair, who led the FDIC from 2006 until this year, is
supported by some states as a third-party monitor of any accord
with mortgage servicers including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , though
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  opposes her selection, said the person. Selection
of a monitor is one of the final issues to be worked out between
the banks and state and federal officials, said the person and
one other also familiar with the talks. Both declined to be
identified because the negotiations are secret.  Bair, 57, now a senior adviser to the Pew Charitable Trusts,
was approached about the job two months ago and turned it down,
according to a third person who is familiar with the matter. She
declined in part because of a book manuscript she is writing
that is due in a few months, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the inquiry was private.  All 50 states last year said they were investigating bank
foreclosure practices following disclosures that the companies
were using faulty documents in seizing homes. State and federal
officials leading the talks are seeking an agreement that
provides mortgage relief to homeowners and sets standards for
foreclosure practices.  The monitor would ensure compliance with any agreement,
according to a settlement proposal offered to the banks in March.  Records, Penalties  The position will include authority to access records and
audit a servicer’s performance, according to the document. Banks
would be subject to penalties for failure to meet performance
measures and timelines.  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , declined to comment on who is being considered for the
monitor position. Miller is leading the talks for the states.
Sarah Holt, a representative of Philadelphia-based Pew, declined
to immediately comment on the position.  Both sides in the settlement negotiations have agreed to
the framework of a deal, according to the two people familiar
with the talks. The accord with the five largest mortgage
servicers could amount to $25 billion with banks agreeing to
fund refinancings and writedowns of loan principal balances,
among other steps, the people said.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
negotiations.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New York-based
Citigroup, declined to comment on whether the bank opposed Bair.  Five Lenders  The other companies involved in the talks are New York-
based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and Detroit-based  Ally Financial Inc .  The value of a deal would be less if California Attorney
General Kamala Harris doesn’t sign on. She announced in
September that she was breaking away from the talks to conduct
her own investigation. The agreement would increase if more
servicers are included in the agreement, the people familiar
with the talks said.  “We’re certainly hopeful we’ll reach an agreement by
Christmas, but there are no guarantees,” Greenwood said.  Bair, a former assistant Treasury secretary and New York
Stock Exchange executive, took the helm at the FDIC in June 2006
after being appointed by President  George W. Bush .  A Republican who once served as a policy aide to
 Bob Dole , former U.S. senator for her home state of Kansas, she
drew praise from Democratic lawmakers in guiding the FDIC
through the financial crisis that saw banks fail at the fastest
pace since the savings-and-loan scandal.  Conflict With Geithner  At the same time, she found herself at odds with government
officials including Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who
was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  during the
 Bush administration  and sought to have her replaced as chairman
after President  Barack Obama  was elected in 2008.  Lawmakers including Representative  Barney Frank , the
Massachusetts Democrat who led efforts to enact the regulatory
overhaul that bears his name, praised Bair for pushing banks and
regulators to protect homeowners as foreclosures soared after
the collapse of the U.S. mortgage market.  Bair successfully pushed for the FDIC to be given authority
under the Dodd-Frank Act for unwinding failed companies whose
collapse could threaten the broader economy as happened in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York,
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net 
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 