-- 
Fed’s ‘Twist’ Asset-Purchase Program Will Lower Some Bond Yields, BIS Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-12-11T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/fed-s-asset-purchases-will-lower-some-bond-yields-bis-says.html
The U.S. Federal Reserve’s $400
billion “Operation Twist” program to replace some shorter-term
debt will continue to lower yields on longer-dated government
debt, the  Bank for International Settlements  said.  Yields on  U.S. Treasuries  with more than eight years to
maturity may decline about 22 basis points, Jack Meaning and
Feng Zhu wrote in the Basel-based BIS’s quarterly report. At the
same time, Fed sales of securities due in three months to three
years may raise yields by an average of 60 basis points. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Fed and Bank of  England ’s initial rounds of debt
purchases, started after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., “significantly” lowered bond yields, the BIS
said. Nevertheless, the impact from the central bank’s recent
expansions of their programs may be limited, it said. Both
central banks are resorting to so-called quantitative easing to
stimulate their economies as the crisis in Europe worsens.  “Central bank purchases are unlikely to replace
conventional interest rate policy in normal times,” the report
said. “That said, they have proven to be useful tools in these
extraordinary times to tackle the unique problems arising from
the global financial crisis and the ensuing recession.”  The latest rounds of purchases will have a reduced impact
because bond yields are already “very low,” while the effect
is smaller the longer the programs last, the BIS said.  Fed Impact  The Fed’s second round of asset purchases lowered yields by
about 21 basis points on average, according to the report. The
biggest effect was seen in securities with a remaining maturity
of around 20 years, where yields fell by 108 basis points. The
“maximum impact” is similar to that produced by the first bout
of bond buying.  The U.S. central bank’s Large-Scale Asset Purchase program
started in November 2008 and was expanded in 2009 and 2010.
Operation Twist was announced in September.  For the  Bank of England , the  first round of purchases 
reduced yields by 27 basis points for gilts due in 5 to 25
years, according to the BIS. Gilts with about 12 years to
maturity saw the biggest impact, with yields falling by as much
as 74 basis points.  The U.K. central bank held its target for bond purchases at
275 billion pounds ($430 billion) last week. Policy makers
increased the program, which targets mostly gilts, by 75 billion
pounds in October, and some have signaled further expansion may
be warranted. Its first 200 billion pounds of purchases were
completed in early 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  