-- 
Funds Reduce Bets on Rising Food Costs to Lowest in 27 Months: Commodities

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-12-12T20:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/funds-cut-bets-on-rising-food-costs-to-27-month-low-commodities.html
Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on
agricultural prices to the lowest level in more than two years
on signs of expanding global supplies.  A  measure  of speculative positions across 11 products from
wheat to coffee to cattle fell 3.6 percent to 258,071 futures
and options in the week ended Dec. 6, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. That’s the lowest since September 2009.
Bullish wagers on corn fell 11 percent to a 17-month low, and
bearish ones on cocoa increased for a fourth week.  World food prices tracked by the  United Nations  retreated
for a fifth consecutive month in November, the longest decline
in more than two years. The U.S. government said Dec. 9 that
combined global inventories of corn, soybeans and wheat will be
3.2 percent larger than anticipated a month earlier. Cocoa
capped its longest slump in 50 years last week on increasing
supplies from Ivory Coast, the world’s biggest producer.  “We’ve got all the harvest data, and there’s not a lot of
catalysts that are going to turn around the direction of
agricultural prices,” said  Peter Sorrentino , a senior fund
manager at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, which
oversees $14.5 billion of assets.  Cattle, Wheat Slide  Last week, the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of
eight commodities touched a 14-month low on Dec. 9, for a weekly
fall of 1.8 percent. Cattle, wheat and soybeans led the retreat.
The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares lost 0.4 percent last
week, while the Dollar Index, a measure against the currencies
of six trading partners, rose less than 0.1 percent. The yield
on 10-year Treasuries advanced 3 basis points to 2.06 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Cattle prices fell 3.9 percent in Chicago, the most since
August. Wheat dropped 4.7 percent, and soybeans declined 2.5
percent. Cocoa tumbled for 12 consecutive sessions through Dec.
9, the longest slide since at least 1961, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities,
which includes energy products and metals, retreated 1.7
percent.  A  measure  of 55 food items fell 0.4 percent in November,
the UN’s Rome-based Food and Agriculture Organization said Dec.
8. World cereal production will climb 3.5 percent to a record
2.32 billion metric tons this year, the FAO forecast. The food-
price gauge has dropped 9.6 percent since reaching a record in
February, easing a surge in costs that helped spark uprisings
across northern  Africa  and the  Middle East  this year, ousting
leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya .  Soybean Holdings  Speculators boosted their bearish  soybean  bets to 10,193
contracts last week, the most negative since October 2006.
Investors are also net-short in cocoa, wheat, soybean meal and
 soybean oil , as well as copper and natural gas.  “Fund managers don’t like to be long the grain markets
with rising supplies,” said  Dan Cekander , the Chicago-based
director of grain research at brokerage Newedge USA LLC. “As
long as supplies appear to be adequate, there will be less
interest in agricultural commodities.”  World wheat  stockpiles  will total 208.52 million tons by
June, 2.9 percent more than forecast a month earlier and the
highest in more than a decade, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said Dec. 9. Soybean reserves will be 1.5 percent
bigger than last month’s estimate, and corn supplies will be 4.6
percent higher. The supply outlook for all three crops exceeded
analysts’ forecasts.  Wheat futures for March delivery fell 0.3 percent to settle
at $5.9425 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Corn futures
for March delivery were little changed at $5.94 a bushel, while
January soybeans rose 0.5 percent to $11.12 a bushel.  Cocoa Plunges  Cocoa prices have plunged 42 percent since reaching a 32-
year high in March. Prices had surged after a civil war in  Ivory
Coast  erupted following a disputed presidential election in
November. Investors raised their net-short position in cocoa by
35 percent to 7,986 contracts, the CFTC data show.  A broader measure showed that funds increased their net-
long positions across 18 U.S. commodities by 4 percent to
589,252  contracts . Investors cut bearish bets in copper by the
most in five weeks and increased holdings in crude oil on signs
that economic growth will be sustained.  U.S. consumer  confidence  reached a six-month high in
December, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index showed Dec. 9. European leaders agreed to a blueprint for
closer fiscal union last week to contain the region’s two-year
financial crisis.  China , the biggest consumer of everything from
energy to copper to soybeans, said Nov. 30 it would lower banks’
reserve requirements for the first time in almost three years to
encourage lending and shore up growth.  ‘Risk-On Trade’  “There’s more of a risk-on trade,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham,  Alabama . “Although  Europe  continues
to struggle along and there are still a lot of issues there, on
a relative basis they’re better off than they were last week.
That puts a boost under the commodities trade.”  Investors put $284 million into commodities funds in the
week ended Dec. 7, after a net outflow of $122 million a week
earlier, according to data from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
EPFR Global, which tracks money flows.  Funds reduced bets on lower copper prices by 61 percent to
a net-short position of 2,704 contracts, the biggest decrease in
bearish sentiment since Nov. 1. Those on higher crude-oil prices
rose 4.1 percent to 202,735 contracts, the CFTC data show.  Gold Bets  Gold  wagers  climbed 3.5 percent to 151,347 contracts,
snapping two weeks of declines. Bullion traders are more bullish
as investors buy the metal at the fastest pace in a year.  Eighteen of 26 surveyed by Bloomberg expect the metal to
advance this week, the highest proportion since Nov. 11.
 Holdings  in exchange-traded products backed by gold rose more
than 108 tons since the start of October, the most since the
second quarter of 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
amount of metal in ETPs reached a record on Dec. 6.  Commodity assets under management rose by almost $40
billion to $365 billion in October, Societe Generale SA said in
a report Dec. 5.  “If people are feeling better about a resolution in Europe
and better about the outlook for China, that portends a better
economic outlook,” said Dan Denbow, a co-fund manager of the
$2.1 billion USAA Precious Metals and Minerals Fund in  San
Antonio . “Commodities are a pro-economic bet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in  Chicago  at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  