-- 
Funds Buy Most Bonds in 11 Months as HSBC Says Rates Peaking: India Credit

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-12-12T04:24:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/funds-buy-most-bonds-in-11-months-as-hsbc-says-rates-peaking-india-credit.html
International investors are adding
to holdings of Indian rupee-denominated debt at the fastest pace
in 11 months, betting that easing inflation and a slower drop in
the rupee will spur a  bond-market  rally.  Global funds’  ownership  has risen $1.6 billion this month,
already the most since January, to $23.8 billion, exchange data
show. Debt due in 2021 had the best two-week rally since May
2010, with yields dropping 30 basis points in the last nine
trading days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 8.53
percent yield on the bonds is more than twice that for China and
four times for U.S. Treasuries.  The rupee is still trading stronger than its record low 
reached last month, after sliding 14 percent this year, on 
speculation the central bank purchased the currency. Policy 
makers will start cutting borrowing costs in the fiscal year 
starting in March as inflation slows to less than 7 percent from 
the current 9.73 percent, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
and Credit Suisse AG.  “The rate cycle is near its peak, inflation is near the
top and so bonds will start to perform,” Gordon Rodrigues, a
Hong Kong-based investment director at HSBC Global Asset
Management that oversees $25 billion in Asian fixed-income
assets, said in an interview on Dec. 9. “Intervention is good
to smooth out volatility as no foreign investor wants to see
large moves.”  Rate to Hold  India ’s wholesale-price index probably  rose  9.04 percent in
November from a year earlier, the least since November 2010,
according to the median estimate of 24 economists in a Bloomberg
survey before a government report due on Dec. 14. Slowing
inflation will spur the  Reserve Bank  of India to leave the
benchmark repurchase rate unchanged at 8.5 percent when it meets
two days later, according to ING Investment Management Pvt. and
IndusInd Bank Ltd.  The central bank has raised  borrowing costs  seven times
this year, the most of any Asian monetary authority,
contributing to a 20.5 percent slump in the nation’s  Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  of shares. Overseas funds cut  holdings  of Indian shares by
$859 million in November, the most since August, while raising
their ownership of rupee-denominated notes by $200 million,
according to exchange data.  “The strategy to move investments from the equity to the
bond market will prove good and profitable,” J. Moses Harding,
executive vice president at  IndusInd Bank Ltd. (IIB) , said in an e-
mail on Dec. 9. “Stock and currency markets will be under
pressure till about mid-2013, while the bond market gets into
bullish mode.”  Currency Reserves  The rupee weakened 0.2 percent to 52.1475 today, stronger
than the record-low of 52.73 per dollar touched on Nov. 22, .
Last month’s slump in India’s foreign-exchange reserves was the
most since the $39 billion drop in October 2008 that followed
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Reserve Bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao declined tell reporters in Calcutta on
Dec. 8 if policy makers had intervened in markets to stem the
currency’s drop.  India’s 10-year government bonds advanced for a fifth
straight week in the five days to Dec. 9. Yields on the 8.79
percent notes due in November 2021 fell 1 basis point to 8.53
percent today after dropping 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage
point, last week, according to the central bank’s trading
system. Similar-maturity securities fetched 3.50 percent in
 China  and 2.1 percent in the  U.S. , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Auction Demand  The  Finance Ministry  sold 130 billion rupees ($2.5 billion)
of six-, nine-, 13- and 30-year debt at an auction on Dec. 9 as
part of the government’s record 4.7 trillion-rupee borrowing
plan in the year ending March. It received bids of 1.7 rupees
for every rupee of the notes it sold at the auction. The central
bank has bought 243 billion rupees of bonds from the market
since Nov. 24 to support the government’s issuance plan, pushing
the 10-year bond yield to a two-month low.  India’s debt has returned 1.4 percent so far this month,
the third-best performance among 10 Asian local-currency bond
markets monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Supplies are still high in the market with the
government’s borrowing plan,” said Debendra Kumar Dash, a
fixed-income trader at Development Credit Bank in Mumbai. “The
government’s buyback of bonds is supporting the 10-year right
now, and if this stops then yields could rise again.”  The cost of protecting the debt of  State Bank  of India
against non-payment using credit-default swaps has almost
doubled this year. Five-year contracts on the lender, viewed as
a proxy for the nation, cost 361 basis points on Dec. 9,
compared with 161 basis points at the end of 2010. The swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Declining Volatility  The implied volatility on one-month dollar-rupee options
has fallen to 11.7 percent from this year’s high of 14 percent
reached on Nov. 22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure of expected swings in exchange rates is used to price
options.  Investors who buy top-rated one-year Indian company bonds
by borrowing dollars at the London Interbank Offered Rate of
1.08 percent gain a yield of 3.1 percent after taking into
account the cost of hedging against a drop in the rupee,
according to HSBC Asset’s Rodrigues.  Three-month offshore rupee forwards traded at 53.21 to the
dollar today, compared with 52.25 on Dec. 9. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  Outweigh Risk  India’s higher yields outweigh the risk of  currency
depreciation , according to ING Investment Management, a unit of
the largest Dutch financial services company. The  difference  in
yields between India’s 10-year bonds and similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries was 647 basis points today compared with a record-
high 697 reached on Nov. 9, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The yields are attractive and are more than what
investors would get in most markets,” K. Ramanathan, the
Mumbai-based chief investment officer at ING Investment
Management that oversees $270 million, said on Dec. 9. “That’s
what is boosting investment in Indian debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  