-- 
Romney Offers $10,000 Debate Wager as Gingrich Weathers Attacks

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-12-11T06:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/gingrich-romney-targeted-by-republican-rivals-each-other-in-iowa-debate.html
Newt Gingrich  came under persistent
fire in a debate yesterday as the latest front-runner in the
Republican presidential race, while top rival  Mitt Romney  opened
himself up for attacks of being out of touch with ordinary
Americans by offering a $10,000 wager onstage.  Gingrich, whose temperament for the presidency has been
questioned by his opponents, mostly maintained a cool demeanor
in fielding criticisms focused on his record. Romney found
himself immediately mocked by Democrats after he challenged
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  to the bet over health-care policy.  “I’m not in the betting business,” Perry replied.  The  Democratic National Committee  jumped on the $10,000
offer, suggesting it showed Romney is out of touch with middle-
class Americans. That sum is more than four months’ pay for most
and more than a year’s worth of mortgage payments, the DNC said
in an e-mail to reporters.  Romney, the founder of the Boston-based venture capital
firm Bain Capital LLC, is worth as much as $250 million,
according to a personal financial disclosure he filed in August.  Gingrich, the former U.S. House speaker, had been largely
ignored by his Republican rivals in many of this year’s previous
debates and often assumed the role of scold, berating the
questioners at the forums. That wasn’t the case last night
following his surge during the past month in polls of the
Republican race.  He and Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts , each
faced attacks from rivals, as both also assailed each other.  Palestinian People  One exchange concerned Gingrich calling the Palestinians an
“invented people” in a recent interview with the Jewish
Channel cable television network.  Romney called the statement a “mistake” that would make
relations with the Palestinians more difficult for  Israel .  “I’m not a bomb thrower, rhetorically or literally,” he
said, seeking to contrast his personality with Gingrich’s.  “Sometimes it is helpful to have a president of the  United
States  with the courage to tell the truth,” Gingrich responded
as he stood by his statement. “I will tell the truth even if
it’s at the risk of causing some confusion sometimes.”  Obama Targeted  Perry came to Gingrich’s defense by saying the media was
making too much out of the statement and that the focus in
discussing the Israeli-Palestinian issue should be on President
 Barack Obama .  “This president is the problem,” he said. “Not something
that Newt Gingrich said.”  Romney earlier had contrasted his background with that of
Gingrich’s, who he has derided as a career politician and
Washington insider.  “The real difference I believe is our backgrounds,” he
said. “I spent my life in the private sector. I understand how
the economy works. I believe that for Americans to say goodbye
to President Obama and elect a Republican, they need to have
confidence that the person they’re electing knows how to make
this economy work again.”  Gingrich sought to turn the tables on Romney, saying he
would have been a Washington insider himself if he had won an
election in Massachusetts almost 20 years ago against then-
Senator Edward Kennedy, a Democrat.  “Let’s be candid, the only reason you didn’t become a
career politician is you lost to Teddy Kennedy in 1994,”
Gingrich said. “You’d have been a 17-year career politician by
now if you’d won.”  Insurance Issue  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota targeted
Gingrich and Romney on the issue of a government requirement
that people purchase health insurance.  She took Gingrich to task for his support in 1993 of the
so-called individual mandate for purchasing health insurance
when then-President  Bill Clinton ’s administration unsuccessfully
tried to redesign the nation’s health-care system. And she
attacked Romney for helping push into law, as governor of
Massachusetts, a state law with an insurance mandate.  Romney reiterated that it should be up to each state to
decide whether to adopt the mandate, and that it was wrong for
Obama to make it the centerpiece of the 2010 federal law
overhauling the U.S. health-care system.  Wager Offer  Perry argued that Romney had asserted in a book he wrote
that other states should embrace the mandate provision. Romney
disputed Perry’s claim, and it was then that he offered the bet.  Bachmann repeatedly called the front-runners “Newt-
Romney,” suggesting that they aren’t true conservatives and
that she is.  “He and I are not clones,” Romney replied.  Bachmann later offered herself as “the proven, consistent
conservative” in the Republican contest.  Gingrich, who has been married three times and acknowledged
being unfaithful to a previous spouse, faced implied criticism
of his personal life.  “If you cheat on your wife, you’ll cheat on your business
partner,” Perry said when asked whether infidelity should
disqualify someone for the presidency.  Not a Disqualifier  Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania said it
shouldn’t be a disqualifier, while adding that a person’s
character should be weighed.  “Character issues do count,” he said. “Trust is
everything.”  Gingrich said his personal life should be viewed in its
entirety, as he addressed the question in a state where social
conservatives hold great sway in the Republican Party.  “I’ve made mistakes at times,” he said. “I’ve had to go
to God for forgiveness. I’ve had to seek reconciliation. But I’m
also a 68-year-old grandfather. And I think people have to
measure who I am now and whether I’m a person they can trust.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , whose campaign is
running an ad in Iowa labeling Gingrich a “serial hypocrite,”
spotlighted the constancy theme. Reiterating his long-held
opposition to an assertive government role in the economy, he
said there would “be a little bit of trouble with anybody
competing with me on consistency.”  Paul Criticism  Paul charged that Gingrich has been “on different
positions on so many issues,” as he criticized him for
supporting the bank bailout in 2008 and for working as a
consultant to the government-backed home mortgage company
 Freddie Mac .  Gingrich received about $1.6 million from Freddie Mac
through two contracts. Asked about a $300,000 fee during a
November debate, Gingrich said he was acting as a “historian”
who warned the company that its business model was “insane.”  Former Freddie Mac officials familiar with the consulting
work Gingrich was hired to perform in 2006 said he was brought
aboard to build bridges on  Capitol Hill . Gingrich has said he
did no lobbying for the company, which he now criticizes as a
candidate.  Romney and Gingrich agree on an issue bogged down in the
 U.S. Congress , a proposed extension of the payroll tax cut. Both
favor it. Paul said last night he also wants to extend it; Perry,
Bachmann and Santorum oppose that move.  Not Enough Money  “This year alone, this will also cost the Social Security
Trust Fund another $112 billion, and we don’t have enough money
this year in the Social Security Trust Fund to put out those
checks,” Bachmann said.  The debate was moderated by George Stephanopoulos and  Diane Sawyer  of ABC News and broadcast on that network live from Drake
University in  Des Moines . It was also sponsored by the Des
Moines Register newspaper, Yahoo.com, the  Republican Party  of
Iowa and WOI-TV, an Iowa ABC affiliate.  It’s the 12th formal debate this year for the Republican
candidates, who will meet again on Dec. 15 for a session in
Sioux City, Iowa. The state conducts caucuses where voting in
the nomination race starts.  The debate was the first since businessman  Herman Cain ’s
departure from the race on Dec. 3 amid allegations of sexual
indiscretions. Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who isn’t
actively campaigning in Iowa while focusing on New Hampshire --
site of the race’s first primary -- didn’t meet polling criteria
for being part the debate.  Gingrich had the support of 25 percent of likely caucus
participants in the latest  Iowa Poll  from the Des Moines
Register. Paul was next with 18 percent, followed by Romney at
16 percent. Sixty percent of poll participants said they could
change their minds, while 11 percent said they are undecided.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Des Moines, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  