-- 
Judge to Probe India’s Deadliest Fire in Seven Years That Killed 91 People

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-12-11T18:31:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/indian-judge-to-probe-deadliest-fire-in-seven-years-that-killed-91-people.html
India ’s West Bengal state ordered a
probe led by a judge into the nation’s worst fire accident in
seven years that killed at least 91 people.  “Since people have faith in the judicial system and a
tragedy of huge dimension has occurred, we have taken this
decision,”  Press Trust of India  cited Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as saying. “We have nothing to hide.”  Television images of the blaze that engulfed the seven-
story  AMRI  Hospitals on Dec. 9 showed firemen smashing window
panes and rescuing trapped victims with ropes tied around them.
As many as 93 people may have died, PTI reported, without citing
anyone.  AMRI Hospitals, part-owned by Kolkata-based  Emami Group , a
maker of cosmetics and massage oils,  deferred setting up its
own inquiry panel to investigate the incident, S. Upadhyay, a
senior vice president at AMRI Hospitals, said in a phone
interview yesterday.  Medical staff abandoned their patients after the fire
spread,  Associated Press  reported, citing relatives of the dead.
Authorities arrested six people, including AMRI’s co-owner S.K.
Todi, Banerjee said on Dec. 9, adding that the hospital will be
shut down after the rescue operations are over. R.S. Goenka, co-
chairman of Emami, has surrendered to the police, said Mahasweta
Sen, a spokeswoman for the company.  The dead included two nurses who died while trying to move
patients to safety, AMRI said in a statement yesterday. The
hospital is also providing medical aid to rescuers from nearby
slums, according to the statement.  In July 2004, 91 children lost their lives in a school fire
in the southern Indian town of Kumbakonam. In June 1997, 59
people died in a cinema fire in  New Delhi  after being trapped in
the balcony. More than 100 were injured in the ensuing stampede.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  