-- 
Singh Faces Renewed Graft Law Protests by Campaigner Hazare

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 
2011-12-12T04:24:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/indian-anti-graft-campaigner-hazare-renews-protest-against-singh.html
Indian anti-corruption activist  Anna Hazare  held a symbolic one-day hunger strike to protest what he
said was the government’s reneging on a promise to pass a
tougher version of a law aimed at curbing graft.  Hazare, whose 13-day fast in August and accompanying street
protests roiled the government, warned yesterday that his
supporters will renew their demonstrations unless the bill
advocated by him is passed by parliament in the next two weeks.
Thousands of flag-waving supporters congregated at  Jantar
Mantar , an 18th-century observatory and traditional rallying
point in New Delhi, wearing Hazare T-shirts and badges.  “What you are witnessing is an explosion of frustration
against corruption,” said D.K. Poddar, a 42-year-old lawyer
carrying an Indian flag and wearing a cap adorned with the
campaign’s “I am Anna” slogan. “Everywhere you go in  India ,
you will find rampant corruption. The government doesn’t take
this seriously.”  Hazare, 73, became a household name in India as his protest
tapped nationwide anger over graft cases involving a member of
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Cabinet, lawmakers and
bureaucrats. Indian business leaders say a growing perception of
corruption in governance is hurting investment in the $1.7
trillion economy that expanded last quarter at the slowest pace
in almost two years after the central bank raised  interest rates 
to slow inflation.  Hazare and his supporters last week rejected
recommendations by a panel of Indian lawmakers that would
exclude junior bureaucrats, politicians and judges from the
scope of the proposed anti-corruption agency, known as the
Lokpal.  All-Party Meeting  Singh, who has called an all-party meeting on the issue for
this week in a bid to reach a consensus within parliament, has
10 days to agree on a final version of the bill and present it
to parliament if he’s to keep a public commitment to do so
before the end of the national legislature’s winter session.  “Corruption is on the rise in India; that is why we have
to continue protesting,” Hazare, dressed in the white cap and
tunic of India’s independence movement, told the crowd of
demonstrators yesterday. “We will keep going with this
agitation until the government makes the necessary changes.”  Hazare has sought permission from the police to begin an
indefinite hunger strike on Dec. 27 at Delhi’s Ramlila Grounds,
the site of his August fast, if the government fails this
sitting to pass the measures he’s seeking.  Games Graft  Former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja ,
government officials and company executives are on trial in  New
Delhi  on charges they conspired in 2008 to grant licenses to
unqualified phone companies at below-market rates for personal
benefit. Their actions may have cost the country $31 billion in
revenue, according to India’s chief auditor. All deny
wrongdoing.  Other bureaucrats have been jailed on charges they
illegally benefited from contracts linked to last year’s staging
of the Commonwealth Games in New Delhi.  The last four sessions of parliament have been disrupted as
opposition parties attacked the administration on corruption,
 inflation  that has stayed above 9 percent even after 13
interest-rate increases since March 2010, and most recently
Singh’s bid to open India’s retail sector to foreign supermarket
chains including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Carrefour SA. (CA)   Global Rankings  India fell four places in an annual ranking of corruption
around the globe to a position below Liberia and  Colombia . The
world’s second-most populous nation came 95 out of 183 countries
in the 2011 Corruption Perceptions Index published this month by
Berlin-based  Transparency International .  Nitin Arora, a 19-year-old student with miniature Indian
flags painted on his face was among those protesting yesterday
in the capital. He said he came to support Hazare, because his
family is fed up with having to pay bribes to government
officials to secure basic public services such as getting a new
passport.  “It really upsets me that my parents have to hand over
their hard earned money,” said Arora. “The politicians don’t
seem interested in doing anything about it because most of them
are corrupt. That is why we support Hazare.”  Amid an outpouring of anger, Hazare ended his August hunger
strike after lawmakers pledged support for anti-graft laws that
would cover all of India’s labyrinthine bureaucracy, set up an
ombudsman in each of the country’s states and create “citizen’s
charters” for each ministry.  Poll Drop  While the cross-party panel last week supported the latter
two ideas, it argued they shouldn’t be enshrined within the
corruption-fighting agency. The panel also restricted oversight
of government departments to senior officials.  The government’s handling of Hazare’s movement, which
included arresting the activist for three days, helped depress
support for Singh’s administration to 20 percent by September
from 30 percent in May, according to an opinion poll among 9,000
people across 28 cities by research company  Nielsen Holdings NV 
and India’s Star News television channel.  Singh’s ruling Congress party faces at least five regional
elections next year, including one in  Uttar Pradesh , India’s
most populous state where campaigning is being led by Congress
party’s Rahul Gandhi. In May, Congress’ second-biggest ally in
the federal coalition, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam that counts
former minister Raja among its leaders, was routed in regional
elections in its home state of  Tamil Nadu , partly in a backlash
against corruption.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  