-- 
International Debt Sales at 6-Year Low on Euro Crisis, BIS Says

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-12-12T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/international-debt-sales-at-6-year-low-on-euro-crisis-bis-says.html
The euro-region’s debt crisis has
affected financial markets globally, pushing up borrowing costs
for banks and triggering sell-offs in emerging-market assets,
according to the  Bank for International Settlements .  Gross debt issuance in international markets dropped to
$1.66 trillion in the three months through September, the lowest
since 2005 as buyers demanded higher compensation for risk, the
BIS said in its Quarterly Review. Investors withdrew more than
$25 billion from emerging-market funds in August and September
as they sought to either reduce risk or sent money home to
repair their balance sheets, it said.  “News on the euro-area sovereign debt crisis drove most
developments in global financial markets between early September
and the beginning of December,” the report said. “Financial
institutions with direct exposure to euro-area sovereigns saw
their costs and access to funding deteriorate.”  The problem was exacerbated by a deteriorating economic
outlook, the BIS said. The  European Central Bank  on Dec. 8
revised down its growth forecast for next year to a range of
minus 0.4 percent to plus 1.0 percent, from 0.4 percent to 2.2
percent previously.  “A run of poor data and policy uncertainty put pressure on
bonds issued by euro-area sovereigns with high debt burdens,”
the bank said. “Greek and Portuguese  bond yields  rose further,
reflecting difficulties in meeting fiscal targets with their
economies mired in recession.”  The BIS was formed in 1930 and acts as a central bank for
the world’s monetary authorities.  Bank Solvency  The debt crisis raised concern that financial institutions
will be unable to raise funds as lenders became cautious about
their solvency due to their holdings of euro-region  government
bonds , the BIS said, noting Franco-Belgian bank Dexia SA and MF
Global Holdings Ltd. as examples.  BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA
had their credit ratings cut on Dec. 9 by Moody’s Investors
Service, which cited funding constraints and deteriorating
economic conditions amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Banks’ deteriorating balance sheets and rising funding
costs in turn undermined their market-making activities,
increasing market price swings as liquidity declined, the BIS
said.  Banks were also forced to pass on the burden to their
corporate and retail borrowers. The average interest rate on all
new loans from European banks to companies increased by 1
percentage point in the year to September while banks in Greece
and  Portugal  raised  interest rates  by about 2 percentage points,
according to the BIS.  Central Bank Action  Six central banks, led by the  Federal Reserve , agreed on
Nov. 30 to make it cheaper for banks to borrow dollars in
emergencies in a global effort to ease Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis. They also created temporary bilateral swaps programs so
funding can be provided in any of the currencies.  “The wide range of liquidity measures bought time but did
not alleviate banks’ medium-term funding challenges,
underscoring the current focus on plans to strengthen the
banking sector,” the BIS said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  