-- 
Italy Can Withstand Increase in Borrowing Costs for Few Years, BIS Says

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-12-12T09:34:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/italy-can-endure-higher-borrowing-costs-for-few-years-bis-says.html
Italy will be able to withstand an
increase in borrowing costs for at least for a few years as its
relatively long debt maturity helps mitigate the effects of
record  bond yields , the  Bank for International Settlements  said.  The cost of servicing its debt would rise by just 0.95
percent of gross domestic product next year if 10-year yields
stayed at the record 7.48 percent reached last month, the BIS
said, citing its own calculations. The “worst-case scenario”
would have to persist for three years for the additional costs
to exceed 2 percent of output, the bank said.  “Simple simulations of the debt-service costs of the
Italian Treasury in different yield-curve scenarios suggests
that Italy should be able to withstand elevated yields for some
time, provided it retains access to the market,” the BIS said
in its Quarterly Report published yesterday. “Given the
relatively high average residual maturity of the Italian public
debt, it would take a long time” for these yields to translate
into “significant additional debt service costs.”  The average maturity of Italian debt is seven years,
according to the BIS. That compares with six years in Portugal
and  Germany  and slightly longer than seven years in  France .  The Italian government bond market is the world’s third
largest after  Japan  and the U.S., with 1.9 trillion euros ($2.54
trillion) in outstanding debt and 1.6 trillion euros in
marketable securities, according to the BIS.  Debt Repayment  Italy’s debt-servicing costs will rise to 5.1 percent of
GDP in 2012 from 4.2 percent this year, and climb to 5.6 percent
in 2013 if 10-year bond yields remain near 7 percent, the
employers’ lobby group Confindustria said this month.  European leaders last week unveiled a blueprint for a
fiscal accord they hope will deliver the region from the debt
crisis that has entered its third year and threatened to spread
to Italy and  Spain . The Franco-German-led agreement, which
provides tighter budget rules and an additional 200 billion
euros ($267 billion) to the euro war chest, is part of an effort
to reassure investors that leaders can master the crisis.  The euro zone’s third-largest economy has to repay about 53
billion euros ($71 billion) in the first quarter alone from the
region’s total maturing debt of 157 billion euros, according to
UBS AG. It owes further 3.2 billion euros in interest payments
based on the average five-year yield in the past three months.  The yield on five-year Italian  notes  rose 13 basis points
to 6.80 percent as of 9:18 a.m. London time while the 10-year
yield advanced 14 basis points to 6.50 percent.  Italy plans to raise 3 billion euros of five-year debt on
Dec. 14. The country has met 96 percent of its financing
requirements for this year, according to UBS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  