-- 
Ivory Coast Voting Starts as Ouattara Eyes Legislative Power

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-12-11T13:39:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/ivory-coast-voting-starts-as-ouattara-eyes-legislative-power-1-.html
Voters in  Ivory Coast  began casting
their ballots in the first legislative election in more than a
decade, a poll that’s likely to shore up support for President
 Alassane Ouattara  as he pushes to overhaul the cocoa industry.  Voting started at 7 a.m. local time. Polls will stay open
until 5 p.m. As many as 1,160 candidates are vying for 255
seats, with about 5.7 million voters eligible to cast their
ballots. The results will be announced by Dec. 18 at the latest,
Youssouf Bakayoko, head of the electoral commission, said on its
website.  The party of former leader  Laurent Gbagbo  is boycotting the
National Assembly vote as he faces charges of crimes against
humanity at the  International Criminal Court . Gbagbo’s refusal
to accept defeat in a November 2010 presidential vote sparked
five months of violence that killed as many as 3,000 people  “These elections are important because they will give us a
proper parliament,” said 31-year-old Serges Gbahou after
casting a vote in a residential suburb of Abidjan.  Ouattara, 69, wants to guarantee farmers as much as 60
percent of the international cocoa price to spur investment and
output in the world’s biggest producer of the chocolate
ingredient. Those plans are part of wider reforms in the
industry, including dissolving regulatory bodies, required by
the  International Monetary Fund  before it considers debt relief
for the West African nation.  Economic Growth  Ivory Coast’s economy is recovering from a civil war that
stalled output in the first quarter. Economic expansion of 8.5
percent is projected in 2012 from a 5.8 percent contraction this
year, according to the  Finance Ministry . Better management of
the economy may help the government resume interest payments on
defaulted $2.3 billion Eurobonds in June, Norbert Kobenan, an
aide to the finance minister, said Nov. 21.  The yield on the bonds, which the country defaulted on in
January, rose to the highest since March 30, to 15.281 percent
late on Dec. 9 in  London , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The election is “an important step toward national
reconciliation,” Bert Koenders, head of the UN mission in Ivory
Coast, told reporters Dec. 9. “Reconciliation will be an asset
for economic and social development.”  Violent Past  Gbagbo, 66, was charged at the ICC in The Hague last week
after being captured in Abidjan in April when Ouattara’s forces,
with support from  United Nations  and French troops, took over
the city. Several members of Gbagbo’s Front Populaire Ivorien
party, which had ruled for a decade, were arrested or left the
country.  The move by the FPI to stay away from the poll may lead to
clashes in parts of the country’s south where the party derived
support, according to Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, managing director
of New York-based DaMina Advisors LLP. “The results could be
discredited,” he said in an e-mailed note.  The country’s violent past, capped by the post-election
crisis this year, may result in apathy for politics, leading to
low voter turnout in the election, said Dominique Assale Aka,
vice chairman of the Abidjan-based Ivorian Civil Society
Convention.  “The behavior of politicians has left a bitter taste in
the mouth of the population,” he said in a Dec. 6 interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Johannesburg at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  