-- 
Japan Sells Foreign Bonds as Currency Hedge Costs Surge: Chart of the Day

-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K a z u m i   M i u r a
-- 
2011-12-11T23:31:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/japan-sells-foreign-bonds-as-currency-hedge-costs-surge-chart-of-the-day.html
Japanese investors are unwinding
overseas bond holdings as  Europe ’s debt crisis drives the cost
to protect against currency shifts to a more than two-year high.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows London interbank offered rates
for three-month dollar loans rose to the highest since May 2009
relative to those in yen. The  spread , used to set currency
hedging costs, widened as concern the euro zone may fracture
spurred demand for dollars. The chart’s lower panel shows
Japanese investors were  net sellers  of foreign bonds in 5 out of
11 months in 2011 and sold the most in a year in November.  “The spike in dollar-borrowing costs won’t stabilize so
easily,” said Makoto Noji, a senior debt and currency
strategist in  Tokyo  at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a unit of
 Japan ’s second-biggest banking group by market value. Foreign
debt is becoming “less attractive” in Japan, he said.  Domestic investors sold 1.27 trillion yen ($16.4 billion)
of overseas bonds and notes last month, the most since November
2010, Ministry of Finance data showed. Kokusai Asset Management
Co.’s Global Sovereign Open, Japan’s biggest mutual fund,
divested all of its Italian  government bonds  by Nov. 10,
according to a report from the fund.  Before European Union leaders held a two-day summit on the
crisis last week,  Standard & Poor’s  warned that 15 euro nations
were at risk for a credit downgrade, including the AAA-rated
France and Germany.  Dollar Libor was at 0.54 percent on Dec. 9, the most since
July 2009, even after the  Federal Reserve , the Bank of Japan and
four other central banks lowered the cost of emergency dollar
funding on Nov. 30.  -- Editors: Rocky Swift, Jonathan Annells  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Kazumi Miura in Tokyo at 
 kmiura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  