-- 
Giants, Jets Win to Boost NFL Playoff Chances as Texans Get Division Title

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-12-12T05:43:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/n-y-jets-beat-kansas-city-houston-texans-win-first-division-title-in-nfl.html
The  New York Giants  kept their
National Football League playoff chances alive with a 37-34 win
against the  Dallas Cowboys  that vaulted them into a tie atop the
division with three regular-season games left.  The Giants scored two touchdowns in the final three
minutes, 21 seconds last night at Cowboys Stadium and held on
for their first win in five games as  Jason Pierre-Paul  blocked
 Dallas ’s 47-yard field goal attempt with one second left.  The game featured eight lead changes, the most in the NFL
in the past two seasons. The Giants improved to 7-6 and avoided
their first five-game losing streak since 2004, while the
Cowboys fell to 7-6 with their second straight loss.  “This is huge,” Giants quarterback  Eli Manning , who
passed for 400 yards and two touchdowns, said in a televised
interview. “It’s good to get that winning feeling again,
especially in the division against Dallas.”  A loss would have dropped the Giants two games behind the
Cowboys in the NFC East and two games back in the race for an
NFC wild-card spot. The rivals are now tied atop the division
with three weeks left, including a Jan. 1 matchup in East
Rutherford,  New Jersey , to end the regular season.  The  New York Jets  also boosted their prospects of making
the postseason.  The Jets routed the visiting Kansas City Chiefs 37-10
yesterday, improving to 8-5 and moving into position for the
second of the American Football Conference’s two wild-card
playoff berths when Cincinnati, Tennessee and Oakland all lost
to fall to 7-6.  Getting Help  “We understand the importance of these games late in the
season,” Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez  told reporters after
throwing two touchdown passes and running for two more scores.
“It looks like we’re getting some help from outside, which is
huge for us, but we’ve got to control what we can.”  The Denver Broncos stunned the Chicago Bears 13-10 in
overtime to push their winning streak to six games and move
ahead of Oakland for the AFC West lead with an 8-5 record.  The Broncos rallied from a 10-0 fourth-quarter deficit
behind quarterback  Tim Tebow , tying the game on a 59-yard field
goal by Matt Prater with eight seconds left and then winning on
a 51-yard kick by Prater in overtime.  “We’re a team that keeps the faith and keeps believing in
one another and that’s something special,” Tebow, who’s 7-1 as
a starter, said in a televised interview.  The  Houston Texans ,  New England Patriots ,  Baltimore Ravens 
and Pittsburgh Steelers are tied atop the AFC with 10-3 records,
with the AFC North’s Ravens or Steelers poised to claim a wild-
card berth if the other wins the division.  Postseason Bound  The Texans scored with two seconds remaining to beat the
Cincinnati Bengals 20-19, win the AFC South title and qualify
for the playoffs for the first time in their 10-year history.  With Houston trailing 19-13 with 2:33 to play, third-string
quarterback T.J. Yates drove the Texans 80 yards before finding
Kevin Walter on a second-and-goal play to secure a franchise-
record seventh straight win.  “I’m happy for our fans, happy for our city, because this
is what I got into the NFL for, to bring a championship to
Houston,” Texans owner Bob McNair told reporters in the locker
room. “This is the first step along that path.”  The Patriots held off the  Washington  Redskins 34-27 as  Rob Gronkowski  caught two touchdown passes to bring his season total
to 15, an NFL record for a tight end. The Ravens beat
Indianapolis 24-10 to keep the Colts winless through 13 games
and keep pace in the division with the Steelers, who beat the
Cleveland Browns 14-3 on Dec. 8.  Packers Extend Streak  The Bengals fell to 7-6 with their loss at home to the
Texans, while the Titans were beaten 22-17 by the New Orleans
Saints. The Raiders were routed 46-16 by the  Green Bay Packers ,
who improved to 13-0 and extended their unbeaten run to 19
games, the second-longest in NFL history behind the Patriots’
21-game streak in 2003-04.  Aaron Rodgers  threw two touchdown passes for the Packers to
tie Brett Favre’s franchise record of 39 in a season.  While Cincinnati, Tennessee and Oakland stumbled, the Jets
were in control throughout against  Kansas City , jumping out to a
28-3 halftime lead. New York outgained the Chiefs 253-4 in total
offensive yards during the first half at MetLife Stadium in East
Rutherford, New Jersey.  The Jets trail the Patriots by two games in the AFC East
after New England’s win in Washington, the only NFL city where
it had previously failed to log a victory.  Drew Brees threw two fourth-quarter touchdown passes to
Marques Colston for the Saints, who keep a two-game lead over
Atlanta in the National Football Conference South division. The
Falcons (8-5) scored 24 unanswered second-half points to beat
the Carolina Panthers 31-23.  NFC Wild-Card Race  The  Detroit  Lions (8-5) ended a two-game losing skid with a
34-28 home win against the  Minnesota Vikings , who have lost five
straight to slump to 2-11. The Vikings reached the Lions’ 1-yard
line before Detroit’s defense forced a fumble and recovered the
loose ball with nine seconds left.  “You don’t get style points, but we’ll take it,” Lions
coach Jim Schwartz said during his postgame news conference.  Detroit and Atlanta are tied for the NFC’s two wild-card
spots, pulling one game ahead of the Bears (7-6), who have
dropped three straight after their loss in Denver. The Giants
and Cowboys are also a game back in the wild-card chase, though
one team can make the postseason as the NFC East winner.  “This was a tough loss,” Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo
said after throwing four touchdown passes in last night’s loss
to the Giants. “It was an important game and we’ve got to
regroup.”  The San Diego Chargers rolled past the Buffalo Bills 37-10
to improve to 6-7 and remain two games out of first place in the
AFC West.  The  Philadelphia Eagles  beat the Miami Dolphins 26-10 to
win for the second time in six games and improve to 5-8.  The Jacksonville Jaguars won 41-14 to snap a three-game
losing run and extend the Tampa Bay Buccaneers’ winless streak
to seven games, while the Arizona Cardinals beat the San
Francisco 49ers 21-19. The Seattle Seahawks (5-7) host the St.
Louis Rams (2-10) tonight to cap Week 14 of the regular season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  