-- 
Stoke Ends Tottenham’s 11-Game Unbeaten Run; O’Neill’s Sunderland Wins

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-12-11T20:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/o-neill-s-sunderland-defeats-blackburn-2-1-to-end-winless-run.html
Stoke beat Tottenham 2-1 to end the
London team’s 11-game unbeaten run in soccer’s Premier League.
Sunderland rallied with two goals in the last six minutes to
beat Blackburn Rovers in coach  Martin O’Neill ’s first game in
charge.  Matthew Etherington got both goals for Stoke in the first
half at Britannia stadium before Emmanuel Adebayor converted a
penalty and had another score ruled out for offside. Spurs had
Younes Kaboul red-carded in the 82nd minute.  Third-placed Tottenham’s first league loss since Aug. 28
leaves coach  Harry Redknapp ’s team on 31 points. Manchester
teams City and United have 38 and 36, respectively. Stoke rose
to eighth after its third straight win.  Earlier,  Sebastian Larsson  scored a stoppage-time winner
for Sunderland with a free-kick at the Stadium of Light after
David Vaughan leveled for the Black Cats. Simon Vukcevic had got
Blackburn’s goal in the 17th minute.  Sunderland’s first win in six matches moved it out of the
three-team relegation zone as its third win in 15 games took its
tally to 14 points. Blackburn stays second-last with 10 points,
one more than Bolton.  O’Neill was hired to replace  Steve Bruce  on Dec. 3,
although he didn’t oversee a 2-1 defeat against Wolves two days
later. It’s his first coaching job since quitting  Aston Villa  in
August 2010, five days before the start of the season, after
being in charge of the Birmingham team since 2006.  The Northern Irishman joined Villa from Celtic, where his
team won the Scottish Premier League three times and was runner
up in the 2003 UEFA Cup. He has also managed Leicester City,
Norwich and Wycombe. As a player, O’Neill won two European Cups
under Brian Clough at Nottingham Forest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at  celser@bloomberg.net  