-- 
Tokyo-Osaka Exchange Merger Sparks Campaign to Woo More Overseas Investors

-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-12-11T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/tokyo-osaka-bourses-lure-foreign-investors.html
Japan ’s top two stock exchanges are
starting campaigns to lure overseas investors after agreeing
last month to a merger amid falling trading volumes.  Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. is starting an English-
language magazine, called “Evolving Japan,” targeting foreign
investors, said bourse spokesman Kazuhiko Yoshimatsu.  Osaka
Securities Exchange Co.  will hold its first overseas investor
relations event this week to promote start-up companies listed
on its Jasdaq exchange, including auction website  Rakuten Inc. ,
according to Yumi Ito, a manager at the bourse’s corporate
services development group.  The effort to interest foreign investors, who account for
about two-thirds of the turnover on Japanese exchanges, comes as
 Europe ’s debt crisis deepens a four-year slump in trading
volumes. It also comes amid increasing competition from  China ,
which in 2008 surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest
equity market.  “We need to be more aggressive about getting information
to foreign investors, who are the main players in the market,”
said Tokyo Stock Exchange’s Yoshimatsu. “We will continue to
strengthen our efforts.”  The two bourses said on Nov. 22 they have reached a basic
agreement to merge by January 2013. A combination would give the
133-year-old Tokyo venue, home to Sony Corp. and Toyota Motor
Corp., access to  Osaka ’s derivatives trading system, while
helping cut costs.  ‘Evolving Japan’  “Evolving Japan” will be posted on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange’s website as early as today and will be distributed
through overseas brokers, Yoshimatsu said. The magazine’s first
issue features articles by Japan’s Minister of National Strategy
Motohisa Furukawa and Tadashi Yanai, chief executive officer of
Fast Retailing Co., he said.  Executives from Rakuten, slot-machine developer Fields Corp.
and seven other companies listed on the  Jasdaq exchange (JSDA)  will
give presentations at an event today and tomorrow in  London 
hosted by the Osaka bourse and Daiwa Securities Capital Markets
Co., Ito said. Jasdaq, Japan’s biggest market for start-ups, is
owned by the Osaka exchange.  “The Jasdaq isn’t well-known among foreign investors,”
Ito said. “We want a wide range of investors, not just
individual investors to know that it’s a market with high growth
companies like the Nasdaq.”  Turnover on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange
has fallen by more than half since peaking in 2007. The  value of
trades  on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange has
averaged 1.3 trillion yen this year, compared with 2.8 trillion
yen in 2007.  Foreign investors accounted for about 65 percent of
turnover on Japan’s bourses in October, according to the Tokyo
Stock exchange.  European investors  made up 64 percent of those
trades by value, exchange data shows. North Americans accounted
for 24 percent of the number.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  