-- 
Momentum Strategies Outperform Carry Trades During Crises, BIS Review Says

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-12-11T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/momentum-strategies-outperform-carry-trades-during-crises-bis-review-says.html
Investors should follow trends in
crises and shun carry trades as borrowing in currencies with
low yields to invest in those with higher rates may lead to
major losses, the  Bank for International Settlements  said.  Carry trades handed investors a 12 percent loss in January
1998 during the Asian crisis that started in the previous year,
and a 6 percent decline in October 2008 during the latest
financial crisis, BIS said. Momentum strategies, which bet
currencies that appreciated or weakened most in the recent past
will continue to do so, generated gains during the same periods,
BIS said.  “The carry trade is a typical ‘nickel’ strategy yielding
small gains most of the time, but exposing an investor to large
losses,” the BIS said in its Quarterly Review. “One bad month
can be sufficient to wipe out one or two years of average
returns. In contrast, momentum strategies, in addition to
downside risk, also have substantial upside.”  The performance of carry trades where investors sell
currencies with low  interest rates  to buy ones with higher
yields also suffered severe losses in August and September this
year, in line with previous distress episodes, the BIS said.  “The largest loss of a carry-trade portfolio funded by
U.S. dollars over these two months amounted to about 3 percent
on a single day,” the report said. “This reflects the fact
that carry trades target currencies, such as the Australian
dollar, Brazilian real and South African rand, depreciated
strongly whereas the dollar appreciated against the vast
majority of currencies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  