-- 
Job Slump Depresses Monster.com Value

-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-12-12T21:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/monster-seen-finally-luring-lbo-as-job-slump-depresses-valuation-real-m-a.html
Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW) , the subject
of at least 20 takeover rumors in the past five years, may
finally be cheap enough to lure a private equity buyer.  The world’s largest online-recruiting company has plunged
66 percent this year, the  most (SPX)  in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, as American businesses remained reluctant to hire. New
York-based Monster is now trading at a 7 percent discount to
sales, cheaper than 90 percent of U.S. Internet software and
services companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It’s also generating twice as much cash relative to its share
price as the industry median, the data show.  Monster is being removed from the  S&P 500  after losing
almost $5 billion in market value in the last five years as
LinkedIn Corp. emerged as a recruiting competitor and the U.S.
 unemployment rate  reached 10 percent. While data compiled by
Bloomberg show that Monster has been cited as a potential
takeover target since at least 2006, the company’s current
capitalization of about $1 billion and cash holdings that exceed
debt may now attract a leveraged buyout, according to Avondale
Partners LLC. A deal may fetch at least $15 a share, an 88
percent premium to last week’s closing price, said shareholder
Penn Capital Management Co.  “The valuation is absurdly cheap,”  Eric Green , a
Philadelphia-based  fund manager  at Penn Capital, said in a phone
interview. “Because of the  capital structure , it would be a
great LBO candidate. There’s huge, huge upside to this company
when we start to see a real bite out of the  unemployment rate .”  Penn Capital oversees about $6 billion and owned about 3.2
million shares of Monster as of Sept. 30.  Steepest Drop  Kelly Sullivan, an outside spokeswoman for Monster from the
public-relations firm Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher,
declined to comment on takeover speculation.  While the S&P 500 fell less than 1 percent this year
through Dec. 9, the 66 percent drop in Monster’s shares has
wiped out $2 billion in market value. The company’s
capitalization was $5.8 billion in December 2006.  Monster gained 1 percent to $8.05 today, the only stock to
rise among 75  information technology (S5INFT)  companies in the S&P 500.  After reporting a $32 million loss in 2010, Monster has
forecast profit ranges with a midpoint that fell short of
analysts’ estimates four quarters in a row while businesses held
off on hiring as the U.S.’s recovery from the longest recession
since the Great Depression deteriorated and  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis deepened.  LinkedIn Competition  The company, which generated about 58 percent of its $914
million in sales last year in the U.S., charges employers to
post job advertisements and to search resumes on its sites such
as Monster.com. About a quarter of Monster’s revenue comes from
services that directly compete with LinkedIn and other social
networks, Jim Janesky, a Philadelphia-based analyst with
Avondale, wrote in a Nov. 28 note to clients.  LinkedIn , the  Mountain View , California-based company that
runs a social network for professionals that includes job
postings and recruiting tools, sold shares to the public in May,
valuing the company at $4.25 billion. Its market value has since
climbed to $7.1 billion as of Dec. 9, seven times more than
Monster’s capitalization of $1 billion.  “There’s a fear, right or wrong, that the paradigm is
shifting somewhat away from the Monster model,” Douglas Arthur,
a New York-based analyst at Evercore Partners Inc., said in a
phone interview. “It’s undeniable, the math is what it is --the
stock is very cheap.”  Unemployment Rate  Monster was trading at 0.93 times revenue as of last week,
lower than 90 percent of U.S. Internet software and services
companies with market values greater than $500 million, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. At an 18 percent discount to book
value, or the value of its assets minus liabilities, it’s also
the second cheapest in the group after  AOL Inc. (AOL) , the data show.  Job openings  in the U.S. increased by 225,000 to 3.35
million in September, the most since August 2008, a month before
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. intensified the
financial crisis, according to Labor Department data released in
November.  The unemployment rate last month unexpectedly fell to 8.6
percent, the lowest in more than two years. Still, the jobless
rate, which has been above 8 percent for 34 straight months amid
a sluggish recovery, will remain above that level until at least
2013, according to the median forecast of 50 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg this month.  ‘Significant’  Cash Flow   “When the employment market recovers, we’re going to see
Monster’s revenue recover,” Avondale’s Janesky said in a phone
interview. “If Monster doesn’t earn the value it deserves in
the stock market, then there are various other avenues of
recognizing value, and one is certainly a merger or an M&A
opportunity.”  A private equity buyer would get a company that has a free
cash flow yield of 9.3 percent, compared with the median of 4.5
percent in the U.S. Internet software and services industry,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Monster’s cash of $322 million
exceeded debt of $223 million at the end of September for a net
cash position that’s also higher than the industry median, the
data show.  “Certainly private equity dollars are attracted to
companies that have significant free cash flow characteristics
and very low valuations,” Janesky said.  While data compiled by Bloomberg show that Monster has been
speculated as an acquisition target at least 20 times in the
last five years by electronic news services, brokerages or
newspapers, the rumors never led to a takeover.  Gannett, Google  “A case for a deal could be made, but it’s far from a slam
dunk,” Mark Marcon, a Milwaukee-based analyst at Robert W.
Baird & Co., said in a phone interview. Bidders may be dissuaded
because it’s difficult to predict the future cash flows of a
business that’s sensitive to swings in the economy and the
industry’s rapid technological changes, he said.  Still, a strategic buyer, such as a media company looking to
grow its Web presence, may also be interested in acquiring
Monster, said Penn Capital’s Green and David Katz, New York-
based chief investment officer of Matrix Asset Advisors Inc.  A newspaper company such as  Gannett Co. (GCI) , the publisher
that’s part owner of Monster.com competitor CareerBuilder.com,
may look to acquire Monster to further supplement revenue from
jobs listings that used to run mainly in newspapers, Green said.
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , which makes most of its money from search
advertising, and LinkedIn, which focuses on higher salary job
listings, could also take a look at Monster, he said.  ‘Clear Disappointment’  Katelin Todhunter-Gerberg, a spokeswoman for Mountain View,
California-based Google, and Hani Durzy, a spokesman for
LinkedIn, said the companies don’t comment on speculation. Laura
Dalton, a spokeswoman for McLean, Virginia-based Gannett, didn’t
return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Monster’s management team would be willing sellers at the
“right price,” which may be in the “high teens to low $20s,”
Matrix’s Katz, whose firm manages $920 million and owned about
1.7 million shares of Monster as of Sept. 30, said in a phone
interview.  Penn Capital’s Green said the company would fetch at least
$15 a share in a takeover, 88 percent more than the closing
price last week and higher than it has traded since July.  “The stock has been a clear disappointment,” said Green,
whose firm was Monster’s 10th biggest shareholder as of
September. Still, “the free cash flow yield is huge and the
business is relatively stable. The job numbers are steadily
getting better. I would love to see someone buy it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 