-- 
Pincus Faceoff With Zuckerberg Shows Fearsome Prelude to Zynga’s IPO: Tech

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-12-11T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/pincus-faceoff-with-zuckerberg-shows-fearsome-prelude-to-zynga-s-ipo-tech.html
When  Zynga Inc.  reached an impasse
while negotiating a five-year partnership with Facebook Inc. in
August 2010, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  demanded a one-
on-one meeting with Mark Zuckerberg.  The two CEOs ate dinner at the Facebook cafeteria and held
a freewheeling discussion until 2 a.m. Over the course of the
meeting and two other marathon sessions that followed, Pincus
convinced Zuckerberg that  Zynga’s games  would help Facebook add
users and revenue. They forged a deal that threw Facebook’s
support behind Zynga, in exchange for a cut of sales.  Pincus’s negotiating prowess -- Google Inc. Chairman  Eric Schmidt  calls it “fearsome” -- helped put his company on
course for a $1 billion initial public offering this month. The
challenge now is keeping up that intensity at a publicly held
company, where Pincus will contend with more scrutiny and less
control over the business he started more than four years ago.  “One of the big questions for anybody going public is,
‘Can they maintain their long-term focus?’” Zuckerberg, whose
own company is slated to hold its IPO next year, said in an
interview. “I just don’t think that’s a big issue with Mark
because he can deal with the pain of any short-term hit to power
through and get to where he wants to go. I hope I’m the same
way. That’s definitely something I’ve learned from him.”  Persuading investors to bet long-term on Zynga is the next
hurdle for Pincus, a veteran entrepreneur and former investment-
banking analyst who is attempting to pull off the biggest IPO
for an  Internet company  since  Google’s debut (GOOG)  in 2004.  Elder Statesman  At 45, Pincus is 18 years older than Zuckerberg and twice
the age of some startup founders in Silicon Valley. He has
started five companies and invested in many more over the past
two decades, helping him hone his negotiating skills and
attention to analytical detail.  Zynga, founded in 2007, is the culmination of a career’s
worth of lessons learned, said  Marc Andreessen , a venture
capitalist and co-founder of Netscape Communications Corp., who
has invested in the startup.  “He has built a machine,” Andreessen said. “Google is a
tightly wired business machine.  Microsoft (MSFT)  is a tightly wired
business machine.  Apple (AAPL)  is too. Zynga is very much in the mold
of those other companies.”  Bloomberg LP, the owner of Bloomberg News, is an investor
in Andreessen Horowitz.  Virtual Goods  Zynga makes money by offering games for free and then
charging for virtual items, such as a puppy in “FarmVille” or
an assault rifle in “Mafia Wars.” About 6.7 million of Zynga
users were paying customers in the first nine months of the
year, up from 5.1 million a year earlier.  Revenue  more than
doubled to $828.9 million in the period. Unlike Groupon Inc. and
some other recent IPOs, Zynga is profitable, though its net
income has decreased this year as Pincus steps up spending on
overhead, marketing and product development.  Pincus also has clashed with board members and employees
over his career. He has alienated some Zynga staffers by pushing
them to work long hours. A few employees were asked to return
unvested equity because their potential rewards didn’t match
what they were contributing to the business, said Roger Dickey,
one of the first 30 workers at Zynga and the creator of  “Mafia
Wars.”   “Mark didn’t get where he is by being a softie,” said
Dickey, who left the company earlier this year and now works as
a startup investor.  ‘Every Horrible Thing’  Pincus has said himself that he went too far at times,
especially in Zynga’s early days.  “I did every horrible thing in the book just to get
revenues,” including giving users virtual credits in exchange
for downloading software that was later difficult to delete, he
said during a talk in 2009 in  Berkeley, California .  “He has a reputation for being an a--hole,” said Alex St. John, president and chief technology officer at  Hi5 Networks , a
social-gaming site. St. John adds that he hasn’t met Pincus and
doesn’t share this view.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
declined to make Pincus available for comment on this story,
citing the pre-IPO quiet period mandated by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Pincus grew up in  Chicago ’s affluent Lincoln Park
neighborhood, the son of an architect mother and a father who
worked as a public-relations adviser to CEOs and politicians.
After studying economics at the  University of Pennsylvania , he
 took jobs  in banking, working at Lazard Freres & Co. and  Asian
Capital Partners , an investment bank based in  Hong Kong . He then
went on to get an MBA at  Harvard University  with the idea of
going back into the business world on his own.  Dot-Com Era  Pincus moved to  San Francisco  in 1995 to capitalize on the
beginnings of the dot-com boom. He persuaded venture capitalist
Fred Wilson to invest $250,000 in FreeLoader Inc., an  Internet
service  for personalized news that Pincus founded with his
friend, Sunil Paul. Wilson gave Pincus a few months to make back
his money. After seven months, FreeLoader was sold for $38
million to Individual Inc., a company that delivered news
online.  Pincus’s next startup was Support.com Inc., which helped
businesses diagnose and fix problems with computers from remote
locations. Founded in 1997, it went public in 2000.  Pincus left his CEO post -- and, eventually, the company --
amid tension with the board, according to two people with
knowledge of the situation. Zynga’s Dudeck declined to comment
on the matter.  Unauthorized Projects  When the Support.com board brought in former  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  executive Radha Basu as the new CEO, Pincus asked
engineers to work on weekends so he could give them projects not
authorized by Basu, said one of the people familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be named.  After Support.com, Pincus focused on investing in new
startups, including  Brightmail Inc. , Napster Inc. and Friendster
Inc. In 2000, he bought Eric Schmidt’s airplane, a single-engine
Beechcraft Bonanza, and devoted more time to his hobby of
flying. He also invested in a movie, 2001’s  “Kissing Jessica
Stein,”  which grossed more than $7 million on a $1 million
budget, according to the Internet Movie Database.  Pincus made an early bet on the social-networking craze
when he started Tribe Networks Inc. in 2003. Though the company
was sold to Cisco Systems Inc. in 2007 before gaining wide
popularity, it helped established Pincus as a predictor of
technology trends, said Marc Benioff, founder and CEO of
Salesforce.com Inc.  Social Experience  “He has been doing social for almost a decade,” said
Benioff, whose company now provides software to Zynga. “He was
doing social when  Mark Zuckerberg  was still in high school.”  Pincus first met Zuckerberg in 2004, after Peter Thiel put
out a call asking if any of his friends wanted to invest in
Facebook. Aside from  Reid Hoffman , the founder and chairman of
LinkedIn Corp., the only person to go along with Thiel was
Pincus.  “He had a pretty good intuition early on that this would
grow into something,” Zuckerberg said.  After investing in Facebook, Pincus used Zynga to double-
down on that bet. Facebook had just opened its site to outside
developers, letting Zynga offer its “Texas HoldEm Poker” game
to the social network’s burgeoning ranks of users.  Pincus staffed his company with managers skilled at
analyzing data. Unlike traditional game developers, which spend
millions of dollars producing a game and then ship it out,
Pincus continually tinkers. The idea is to get users to play for
longer periods and spend more money on virtual items.  Voting Power  This year, in a move that might help Pincus avoid a reprise
of the board tension at Support.com, Zynga revamped its stock
structure to give him 70 times more voting power than shares
sold in the IPO. The change grants him more influence than other
Silicon Valley founders, including Google’s  Larry Page  and
 Sergey Brin , who hold 10 times the voting power of investors.  Pincus often gets his way outside the boardroom as well,
said Google’s Schmidt. In the summer of 2009, Pincus was seeking
a partnership that led to Google buying a 3 percent stake in
Zynga. When Pincus came to the negotiating table, he personally
knew more about the proposed deal than everyone on the Google
side of the table combined, according to Schmidt.  “He is a we’re-going-to-make-this-happen-or-else type of
person,” Schmidt, who was Google’s CEO at the time, said in an
interview. “He is a fearsome, strong negotiator.”  ‘What About Us?’  In January of this year, when Twitter Inc. was negotiating
with San Francisco to get a tax exception, Pincus sought the
same terms.  “He said, ‘That’s good for Twitter, but what about us?’”
Ed Lee, mayor of San Francisco, said in an interview.  Pincus helped organize a meeting at  city hall  with other
technology executives, including Yelp Inc. CEO Jeremy Stoppelman, Riverbed Technology Inc. CEO Jerry Kennelly and
prominent angel investor  Ron Conway , along with representatives
from about 30 other companies based in the city. Pincus led the
group in pushing Mayor Lee to repeal the citywide tax, all but
threatening to move Zynga out of the city if the tax remained,
according to Lee.  “He said he would make it really hard for us to continue
with the plans we would like to have here about expansion and
about permanency,” Lee said. “I understood what he meant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  