-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose in November on Holiday Shopping, Autos

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-12-11T05:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/retail-sales-probably-rose-in-november-u-s-economy-preview.html
Sales  at retailers probably rose in
November as Americans bought more new cars and shopped for the
holidays, showing growth in the U.S. is picking up heading into
2012, economists said before a report this week.  The projected 0.6 percent gain in purchases would follow a
0.5 percent advance in October, according to the  median  forecast
of 64 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Commerce
Department figures on Dec. 13. Other data may show factories
expanded production and the cost of living was little changed.  The spending record set on the day after the Thanksgiving
holiday, known as Black Friday, may mark the beginning of a
prosperous holiday season for stores as falling joblessness and
rising stocks help lift pessimism. Gains in household purchases
and steady prices mean Federal Reserve policy makers meeting
this week can take time to determine if more stimulus is needed.  “Before Black Friday people were holding back, then they
went all out,” said Chris G. Christopher, a senior principal
economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .
“For the Fed, there have been some positive signs in recent
months.”  Spending during the Thanksgiving weekend jumped 9.1 percent
per customer from a year earlier to $398.62, according to the
 National Retail Federation . Holiday deals drew record crowds to
Limited Brands Inc. and  Macy’s Inc. (M) , and November same-store
sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by researcher
Retail Metrics Inc. rose a combined 3.2 percent.  ‘Meaningful Acceleration’  “We were positive throughout the month going into
Thanksgiving and it only got better from there,” Timothy Johnson, senior vice president of finance at retailer Big Lots,
said during a Dec. 2 earnings call. “We feel about as good as
we can with the positive performance to begin, but also the
acceleration, meaningful acceleration, we saw.”  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
recovered from a plunge in stock values during October faster
than  S&P 500 Index . It was up 0.9 percent from Oct. 31 through
Dec. 9, while the broader market has climbed 0.2 percent.  Car and light truck sales in the U.S.  advanced  in November
to a 13.6 million seasonally adjusted annualized rate, the best
month since August 2009, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Excluding  automobiles and service stations, the retail
report may show sales increased 0.5 percent last month after
rising 0.7 percent in October, economists said.  Less Unemployment  An improving employment outlook probably supported the gain
in purchases. Payrolls climbed by 120,000 workers in November,
and the  jobless rate  fell to 8.6 percent, the lowest since March
2009, from 9 percent, Labor Department figures showed Dec. 2.  As signs earlier this year indicated the economy might
slow, business pulled the reins in on inventories. Now that
sales are growing, manufacturers will need to boost output to
replenish stockpiles.  Industrial production increased 0.2 percent last month,
according to economists’ median estimate ahead of the Fed’s Dec.
15 figures. Gauges of manufacturing in the Philadelphia and New
York regions may also point to expansion, economists project.  While improved production would support growth and
employment has climbed, the central bank is still considering
ways to bolster expansion. The  Federal Open Market Committee 
will issue a statement after its meeting on Dec. 13 with any
updated outlook.  Inflation is becoming less of an issue even as the economy
picks up. The consumer-price index, the broadest of the monthly
price gauges, rose 0.1 percent in November after falling 0.1
percent the prior month, according to the survey median ahead of
a Labor Department report Dec. 16. The increase would prices up
3.5 percent over the past year, the same as in November.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  