-- 
Medvedev Orders Russia Vote-Fraud Probe After Largest Anti-Putin Rallies

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-12-12T09:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/russia-opposition-rallies-in-biggest-national-demonstrations-against-putin.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
ordered an investigation of alleged parliamentary election fraud
after Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  faced the biggest protests
in his 12 years in power.  Twenty-five thousand people gathered in the center of
Moscow on Dec. 10 in near-freezing temperatures and dispersed
without detentions or violence, police said. Several thousand
demonstrated in  St. Petersburg  and more than 15,000 in about 30
other cities across the world’s biggest country by area, RIA
Novosti reported.  The swelling resentment threatens to weaken Putin’s bid to
return to the Kremlin in a presidential contest in March, which
may allow him to have almost a quarter-century in power. His
 United Russia  party retained a narrow majority in the State
Duma, the lower house of parliament, amid accusations of vote
rigging in the Dec. 4 parliamentary ballot.  “We are for free elections, we are for democracy,” Ilya
Ponomaryov, a Duma lawmaker and one of the protest organizers,
told the crowd in Bolotnaya Square, on an island just south of
the Kremlin. “We want a recount of the vote.”  As many as 150,000 people turned out for the biggest rally
in the capital in two decades, said Vladimir Ryzhkov, a former
lawmaker. The organizers are planning to stage protests the next
two weekends and will apply for a permit to hold a rally with
500,000 protesters on Sakharov Prospekt, he said.  Russian stocks rebounded from their steepest weekly decline
since September. The 30-stock Micex Index rallied 1.6 percent to
1,418.45 by the 1 p.m. in Moscow, helping to pare a 4.1 percent
plunge Dec. 9 that pushed the weekly decline to 7.3 percent. The
dollar-denominated RTS Index rose 1.4 percent to 1,429.69.  ‘Too Early to Say’  “It’s too early to say if fluctuations on our stock
indexes were caused by elections or nervousness about the  euro
zone ,” Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  told reporters in
Moscow today.  Organizers handed out white ribbons to participants, a
color that has started to become a symbol of the protests.
People at the square chanted: “Russia without Putin!”  Putin, 59, announced in September he plans to return as
president next year. The Russian leader, who in 2008 handed over
the presidency to Dmitry Medvedev because of a constitutional
ban on three consecutive terms, has seen his popularity fall
amid voter discontent at stalling wage growth and corruption.  ‘Actor’  “I wanted Medvedev to run again as president instead of
Putin, but he turned out to be an actor in a puppet show,”
Katya, 24, a dental technician, said while eating french fries
at a diner on the west side of the square. She declined to give
her surname, saying her father is a government official and a
United  Russia  member.  Protests began in Vladivostok on the Pacific coast,
spreading west through Siberian cities such as Ulan Ude and
Omsk, before starting in Moscow, St. Petersburg and other
European Russian cities, RIA Novosti reported. Police detained
dozens of people at unsanctioned rallies, the state news service
said.  ‘Sands Shifting’  “The sands are definitely shifting and we are seeing
Russia’s fledgling democracy mature by the hour,”  Liam Halligan , chief economist at  Prosperity Capital  in Moscow, which
oversees more than $5 billion in Russia, said by phone. “What
has changed now is that the opposition are being heard to a
greater extent and the government will have to respond by
spending more on social policy.”  The  Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe ,
the continent’s democracy watchdog, the U.S.,  Germany  and the
European Union criticized violations during the Dec. 4 vote.  Putin said Dec. 8 that U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s remarks of the vote emboldened protesters. Clinton
mentioned publicly the OSCE’s criticism that the election was
marred by fraud. The comments “sent a signal” to activists,
Putin said on Dec. 8.  Accusations of fraud in connection with Russia
parliamentary elections that have led to large protests should
be investigated, Medvedev said yesterday.  Medvedev on Facebook  “People have a right to express their position, which they
did” Dec. 10, Medvedev said on his Facebook page. “I do not
agree with any slogans or statements made at rallies.
Nevertheless, I have instructed to check the procedures with the
polling stations regarding compliance with the legislation on
elections.”  Konstantin Kosachyov, the head of the Duma’s foreign-
affairs committee, accused unidentified foreign powers of
seeking to destabilize Russia.  “What’s happening now was planned long before the
elections, irrespective of the outcome, to discredit them,”
Kosachyov said in a phone interview Dec. 10. “The aim is to
place in doubt the legitimacy of the Russian leadership. It’s a
geopolitical game.”  A  map  on Yandex, Russia’s largest search engine, showed the
locations of planned protests in almost 100 cities around the
country, with links to pages on social networking site  Vkontakte 
for details of each event.  Credit Risk  Russia’s credit risk rose the most among emerging markets
since protests started, while the ruble weakened for seven days.  “The market is only now starting to price in the return of
top-level political risk for the first time in 12 years,”
 Kingsmill Bond  and Andrey Kuznetsov, analysts at Citigroup Inc.
in Moscow, wrote Dec. 9 in an e-mailed note. “We are likely to
see continued downward pressure on the market as those investors
not prepared for this or not willing to stomach the risk, exit
the market.”  United Russia  lost the two-thirds majority that had given
it the power to alter the constitution unilaterally, winning 238
seats in the election for the 450-member Duma, the Central
Elections Commission  said . The Communists got 92 seats, Just
Russia won 64 and the nationalist  Liberal Democratic Party  56
seats.  The Communists denounced the vote as “illegitimate,”
without endorsing demands for a re-run by the organizers of most
of yesterday’s rallies, the Solidarity movement, an umbrella
opposition group. Just Russia will seek a vote recount in a
number of regions, lawmaker Gennady Gudkov said.  United Russia  The ruling party benefited from uneven access to state
resources and the media before the vote, the OSCE said Dec. 5.
Election observers also saw evidence of ballot-box stuffing and
other irregularities at the polls, it said.  In Moscow,  Europe ’s largest city, the official results gave
United Russia more than 46 percent of the vote, compared with
27.5 percent in an exit poll by the Public Opinion Foundation.
The Russian capital has a population of 11.5 million, according
to last year’s census.  Medvedev’s human-rights council said it was “extremely
concerned” about fraud complaints about the parliamentary poll
and the vote should be repeated if the violations were serious
enough to alter the results, according to a statement on the
panel’s website.  Moscow Protests  Thousands of people took to Moscow’s streets in the days
after the vote to protest against the election results and
police detained several hundred people.  That action “was spontaneous, with much fewer people,”
said Yekaterina Goncharenko, who stood holding white flowers on
Bolotnaya Square Dec. 10. “Now it is much more peaceful.”  While the demonstrations are “clearly” the biggest ever
against Putin, they are “nowhere near” the size of rallies
that toppled governments in the  Middle East  this year,  Neil Shearing , senior emerging-market analyst at  Capital Economics  in
 London , said Dec. 8 in a telephone interview.  “I don’t think we will see anything like the Arab
spring,” said  Dmitry Oreshkin , an independent political analyst
in Moscow. “No one is in a rush to run into machine-gun fire.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  