-- 
Ryan Braun Gets Backing of Milwaukee Brewers Owner Over Drug Test Appeal

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-12-11T17:50:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/ryan-braun-gets-backing-of-milwaukee-brewers-owner-over-drug-test-appeal.html
Ryan Braun , the National League’s
Most Valuable Player, has the backing of  Milwaukee  Brewers owner
 Mark Attanasio  as he challenges a drug test result that may land
him a 50-game suspension should the findings be confirmed.  “We are dealing with an incomplete set of facts and
speculation,” Attanasio said in a  statement  on the Brewers’
website early today. “Before there is a rush to judgment, Ryan
deserves the right to be heard. We are committed to supporting
Ryan to get to the truth of what happened.”  Braun, a 28-year-old outfielder, is disputing the results
of a sample taken during the playoffs. An initial analysis
showed elevated levels of testosterone, which a subsequent
examination indicated was synthetic,  ESPN reported  last night.
 Major League Baseball  sought a retest from the  World Anti-Doping
Agency , which determined that the testosterone wasn’t produced
naturally by Braun, the broadcaster said.  “There are highly unusual circumstances surrounding this
case which will support Ryan’s complete innocence and
demonstrate there was absolutely no intentional violation of the
program,” an unidentified spokesman for Braun said in a
statement to ESPN. “We are confident he will ultimately be
exonerated.”  After being told of the test result, Braun asked for a
second sample to be taken and tested, ESPN said. That sample was
negative, which Braun’s representatives will argue throws doubt
on the validity of the results on the first sample, the report
said. No major league player has ever successfully challenged a
failed test.  111 Runs, 33 Homers  Braun’s agent, Nez Balelo, didn’t immediately return a call
to his Los Angeles office. Pat Courtney, a spokesman for MLB,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Braun, an All-Star in each of the past four years, was the
2007 NL Rookie of the Year. Last season, he led the Brewers with
a .332 batting average, trailing only  Jose Reyes  in the NL, as
Milwaukee won its first division title since 1982.  Braun drove in 111 runs and hit 33 home runs this year, the
second-best performance for Milwaukee behind Prince Fielder, as
the Brewers finished the season with an NL-best 185 home runs.  In April, Braun signed a five-year, $105 million contract
extension that will run from 2016 to 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 