-- 
Sinopec to Spend $1 Billion to Increase Australian LNG Stake

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-12-12T05:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/sinopec-raises-australia-lng-stake-to-25-origin-conoco-reduce-share.html
China Petrochemical Corp., Asia’s
biggest refiner, agreed to invest an estimated $1 billion to
increase its stake in an Australian liquefied natural gas
project led by  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Origin (ORG)  Energy Ltd.  Sinopec Group, as the company is called, signed an initial
accord to buy a further 10 percent of the venture, Sydney-based
Origin said in a statement today. Sinopec Group, which agreed to
pay $1.5 billion for 15 percent of the project in April, will
also purchase an extra 3.3 million metric tons of LNG a year
through 2035, clearing the way for an investment decision on the
second phase of the $20 billion Queensland state venture.  China, the world’s largest energy consumer, plans to more
than double natural gas consumption to cut its reliance on coal
and oil. The country needs to increase LNG imports as it
develops unconventional sources such as shale gas, said Ivor Ries, an analyst at E.L. & C. Baillieu Stockbroking Ltd.  “There’s a lot of talk about  China  seeking its own
unconventional gas,” Ries said by phone today from Melbourne.
“What this tells you is that Sinopec thinks developing domestic
supplies will take a lot longer” than expected.  Origin gained 3 percent to A$14.72 at the 4:10 p.m. close
in Sydney, while the S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 1.2 percent.  Energy Assets  The accord comes a month after Sinopec agreed to invest
$5.2 billion in Galp Energia SGPS SA’s Brazilian unit. Chinese
energy companies have bid at least $16 billion for overseas oil
and gas assets this year to expand reserves.  Arrow Energy Ltd., the Australian coal-seam gas producer
owned by PetroChina Co. and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , is planning a
rival LNG venture on Queensland’s  Curtis Island .  BG Group Plc (BG/) 
and  Santos Ltd. (STO)  are also building Queensland LNG projects.  Origin and Conoco, the third-largest U.S. oil company, are
among energy companies in  Australia  planning or already building
A$200 billion ($203 billion) of LNG projects to tap Asian demand
for the cleaner-burning alternative to coal. Their venture last
month agreed to supply  Japan ’s Kansai Electric Power Co. with 1
million tons of LNG a year.  While Australia is set to surpass Qatar as the biggest LNG
exporter by the end of the decade, projects in the country face
delays and cost overruns that threaten to undermine their  credit
quality ,  Standard & Poor’s  said in November.  Conoco and Origin earlier this year agreed to supply 4.3
million tons of LNG a year to Sinopec. Annual capacity from the
first two stages of the LNG project will be 9 million tons.  Consistent Terms  The terms of the agreement announced today are
“consistent” with the previous Sinopec transaction, Origin
Managing Director Grant King told reporters on a call today.
Conoco and Origin may receive at least $1 billion by selling 10
percent to Sinopec Group, Ries said.  Conoco and Origin will each own 37.5 percent of the
Australia Pacific LNG project, while Sinopec will have 25
percent when the transaction is completed. The majority
shareholders reiterated today they plan to make an  investment
decision  on the second phase of the development in early 2012
after committing to the first processing unit in July.  “There is certainly potential” to proceed with a third
LNG unit, King said on the call today.  Origin doesn’t expect delays amid concerns that coal-seam
gas projects will harm the state’s water supplies, King said.
Origin, which followed BG and Santos in approving its LNG
development, expects exports from the first stage to begin in
mid-2015 and shipments from the second unit in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  