-- 
Swan Forecasts Record Investment as Australia’s Economy ‘Growing Solidly’

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-12-11T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/swan-forecasts-record-investment-as-australia-s-economy-growing-solidly-.html
Australia’s economy is “growing
solidly” and capital expenditure by businesses is forecast to
rise 32 percent to a record A$158 billion ($161 billion) this
financial year, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said yesterday.  “That spending, although a drag on productivity now, will
increase our economy’s capacity down the track,” Swan said in
his weekly economic note. His office also released for public
comment an interim report on the tax treatment of losses, in a
move he said could “encourage investment in businesses that are
struggling or that are just starting up.”  Australia, the only economy in the Group of 10 to avoid a
recession during the global credit crisis, expanded 1 percent in
the third quarter, faster than earlier estimated. Still, the
country’s central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  on Dec. 6
for a second straight month, citing  Europe ’s “much more
difficult” financing conditions.  The cut marked the RBA’s first consecutive easing since the
depths of the world financial crisis in 2009 and reflected a
worsening global outlook that’s weighing on  Australia ’s exports.  “There’s no doubt the global instability is hitting our
economy and our budget,” Swan said. “European leaders made
progress during the week on addressing the sovereign debt crisis,
but clearly the world now wants to see the talk turned into
action. The global community and international financial markets
need to see the full details and swift implementation of
Europe’s plans.”  Swan said the government intends to boost productivity in
Australia, which has declined following “a decade of neglect of
investment in critical infrastructure and skills.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  