-- 
Syrian Protesters Urge General Strike

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-12-11T13:40:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/syrian-protesters-call-for-general-strike-as-pressure-on-assad-increases.html
Syrian anti-government protesters
called for a general strike after security forces opened fire on
demonstrators in several cities during the past two days,
killing more than 40 people.  The demand for businesses to close shops and offices today
was made by groups that are leading protests, including the
Syrian Revolution Coordinators Union, which called for a strike
on its Facebook page. The Syrian National Council, an umbrella
movement uniting several opposition groups, supports the call,
Al Arabiya television reported.  The U.S., the European Union and the  Arab League  are
increasing economic and political pressure on President Bashar al-Assad to end violence that risks tipping  Syria  into a civil
war as soldiers defect and take up arms against the government.  The state-run SANA news agency said “foreign entities”
were sending  text messages  to Syrians in an effort to encourage
the work stoppage.  Videos posted on opposition groups’ Facebook pages today
showed empty streets and closed shops in Damascus and other
cities. Bloomberg was unable to confirm the authenticity or date
of the videos. Syria bans foreign media from reporting freely in
the country.  Syrian security forces used loudspeakers on mosque minarets
to warn the residents and shop owners to end the strike in the
province of Idlib, the  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said.  Tank Battle  Security forces opened fire at protesters demanding Assad’s
ouster, killing at least 43 people since Dec. 9, Rami Abdel
Rahman, head of the Observatory, said in an e-mailed statement
from  London .  Heavy clashes between the Syrian army and defectors in the
southern province of Daraa were reported by the Observatory,
which said three army tanks were burnt. Security forces killed
14 people today, Al Jazeera television said without specifying
where.  Arab League foreign ministers will meet in Cairo this week
to discuss Syria, Egypt’s official Middle East News Agency
reported yesterday, citing an unidentified league official. The
report didn’t specify a date.  The  United Nations  estimated on Dec. 1 that more than 4,000
people have been killed since the uprising against Assad began
in March, inspired by movements that toppled leaders in Tunisia,
 Egypt  and  Libya . Tens of thousands have been arrested and more
than 14,000 are reported to be in detention, the UN said.  Syrian officials have accused western countries of paying
armed thugs to instigate violence with a view to fueling
sectarian conflict and destabilizing the government. Assad
denied in an ABC News interview last week that he gave the
orders for a crackdown on protests that started nine months ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  