-- 
Armed Clashes in Syria Leave Scores Dead

-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-12-11T22:22:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/syrian-army-defectors-battle-state-forces-as-40-demonstators-are-killed.html
Syrian army defectors clashed with
state forces yesterday in a drive to topple President Bashar al- Assad as activists staged a strike against the regime.  Government forces killed more than 40 demonstrators across
the country over the weekend, according to the Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights. Thirteen soldiers died in clashes
with armed groups, according to SANA, a state-run  news agency ,
as the violence threatened to devolve into civil war.  “The general strike took place in several Syrian cities
and has terrified the regime as the Hama governor threatened to
seal off the stores in the city and forces threatened to set
these stores on fire,” Ali Hassan, spokesman for the Syrian
Revolution Council, an opposition group, told  Al Arabiya  in an
interview.  The protests of Assad’s government followed successful
efforts to topple regimes in  Egypt  and  Tunisia . Longtime Libyan
dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  was killed by revolutionary forces in
that country and Yemen’s President Ali Abdullah Saleh resigned
last month in exchange for immunity from prosecution.  Security forces opened fire at protesters demanding Assad’s
ouster, killing at least 43 people since Dec. 9, Rami Abdel
Rahman, head of the Observatory, said in an e-mailed statement
from  London .  Tanks Burnt  Heavy clashes between the Syrian army and defectors in the
southern province of Daraa were reported by the Observatory,
which said three army tanks were burnt. Security forces killed
14 people yesterday,  Al Jazeera  television said, without
specifying where. More troops have defected in recent days and
the clashes occurred as they sought to protect civilians from
attacks by government forces, Al Jazeera reported.  The Syrian National Council, an umbrella group uniting
several opposition groups, said the  United Nations  is unable to
prevent the regime from “killing its innocent citizens and
shedding their blood in front of the whole world,” and called
on other countries to intervene in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  More than 5,000 people have been killed opposing the
government and the number of detainees has reached more than
15,000, the statement said. The UN has said 4,000 people have
been killed in the violence.  The Arab League foreign ministers will discuss  Syria  in a
special Dec. 17 meeting at its Cairo headquarters, Egypt’s
state-run Middle East News Agency reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified diplomat.  Investment Falls  Foreign direct investment in Arab states has fallen as much
as 24 percent this year as political unrest swept the region,
according to the group that insures such funding against non-
commercial risks.  Foreign financing will shrink to between $50 billion and
$55 billion in 2011 from $66.2 billion the previous year, the
Arab Investment & Export Credit Guarantee Corp., known as
Dhaman, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Egypt’s Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri said the country
may resort to foreign borrowing “if we have to” and that the
country’s economy is far worse than anyone can imagine.  Gross domestic product expanded 1.8 percent in the fiscal
year through June and Egypt has spent almost half its foreign
currency reserves in the past 11 months.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  plans to withdraw workers from Syria and
cancel supply contracts following European Union-imposed
sanctions on the country.  Saleh’s Trial Demanded  In Yemen, hundreds of thousands of protesters in the
capital Sana’a and across the country demanded that Saleh face
trial for his regime’s attacks on critics of the government, the
 Associated Press  reported yesterday.  A new Yemeni government was sworn in yesterday, pledging to
end violence and restore basic services to the country. The
protesters also rejected the unity government, which includes
former members of Saleh’s administration, according to the AP.  In Tunisia, where the so-called Arab spring uprisings
began, a newly elected parliament passed a provisional
constitution that gives the assembly broad powers to govern the
country and overhaul the bureaucracy, according to the Financial
Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 Jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  