-- 
U.S. Withdraws Last Forces From Airbase Following Deaths in Pakistani Army

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-12-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/u-s-leaves-pakistan-airbase-to-meet-demand-over-troop-deaths.html
The U.S. withdrew its last personnel
from a Pakistani military base it used to launch Predator drone
missions in response to a demand made after a NATO strike killed
24 Pakistani soldiers.  Already tense U.S.- Pakistan  relations were further
stretched by the Nov. 25 attack on Pakistani army posts along
the border with Afghanistan. The U.S. and NATO have denied
Pakistani assertions that the raid was deliberate and have begun
an investigation into the killings in a region where Pakistani
forces have been battling Taliban militants.  “The last flight carrying leftover U.S. personnel and
equipment departed Shamsi Base today and the base has been
completely vacated,” the Pakistani military said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement. “The control of the base has been taken
over by the army.”  Pakistani Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani ’s government is
reviewing the terms of its agreements with the U.S. and NATO
forces in  Afghanistan , Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar said
in Dec. 8 in comments broadcast by television channels. The
border incident triggered an angry backlash in Pakistan with
protest rallies in major cities.  “The closure of Shamsi indicates that Pakistani generals
this time want the U.S. to accommodate their demands and not
weaken them in front of their soldiers and the public,” said
Rashid Khan, a professor of international relations at the
University of Sargodha in central Pakistan.  Bin Laden Attack  The U.S. and Pakistan have been trying to stabilize ties
after a year that included the detention of a CIA contract
employee for killing two Pakistanis, the unilateral American
raid near Islamabad that that killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in May, and public accusations by top U.S. officials that
Pakistan’s army is actively aiding militant groups.  Nuclear-armed Pakistan has also closed border crossings to
trucks carrying supplies for U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan, and
boycotted an international conference on Afghanistan held in
Bonn.  Pakistan may continue to block NATO war supplies for weeks
and could consider closing the country’s airspace to the U.S.,
the  BBC  reported today, citing an interview with Gilani.  U.S. forces used the Shamsi base in their fight against al-
Qaeda and Taliban militants who move between Pakistan’s
northwestern tribal areas and Afghanistan.  Operations Moved  The Central Intelligence Agency, the primary tenant at the
Shamsi base, already has relocated its drone operations to
facilities inside Afghanistan, including the airbase in Kandahar
where the Lockheed Martin RQ-170 Sentinel that was used to
support the May raid that killed bin Laden in Abbottabad was
based.  The shift will not have a significant effect on either
surveillance or armed drone missions, U.S. intelligence
officials said, because Shamsi was used primarily to repair
drones.  The U.S. and Pakistan conducted a joint investigation last
year after a similar border incident involving several Pakistani
deaths. In that case, NATO apologized.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  