-- 
Hungary to Rework 2012 Draft Budget as Orban Cuts Economic Growth Forecast

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-12-12T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/hungary-to-recalculate-budget-after-gdp-forecast-cut-orban-says.html
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  pledged
to rework Hungary’s 2012 draft budget because of a reduced
economic-growth forecast and a weaker forint estimate.  The Cabinet forecasts economic expansion of 0.5 percent
“at most,” compared with 1.5 percent predicted earlier,
because of lower export demand from the euro area, Orban told M1
television in an interview broadcast yesterday. The government
needs additional measures to plug a 200 billion-forint ($883
million) gap for 2012, Economy Ministry State Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay told TV2 in an interview today.  “Next year, particularly its first half, will be turbulent
for  Europe  and it will certainly be turbulent for us as well,”
Orban told lawmakers in Parliament today. “We have to cut the
growth forecast” and “we have to calculate with a higher euro-
forint exchange rate than we previously hoped.”  Hungary last month lost its investment-grade  credit rating 
at Moody’s Investors Service after seeking assistance from the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union. The Cabinet
reversed its policy of shunning international aid after the
forint fell to its weakest on record against the euro and the
government struggled to raise planned amounts at debt auctions.  The forint has been the world’s worst-performing currency
against the euro in the second half, weakening 13 percent. It
dropped 1 percent to 305.25 per euro at 3:02 p.m. in Budapest
after reaching a record-low 317.92 on Nov. 14.  Additional Measures  The Cabinet previously based next year’s draft budget on an
average forint rate of 268 per euro, targeting a budget deficit
of 2.5 percent of gross domestic product.  “Orban’s statement suggests the government acknowledged
that 2012 growth might be considerably less than the 1.5 percent
projection the budget was originally built on, rendering the
budget-deficit target unlikely to be met without additional
measures,” Antal Hum, a Budapest-based economist at DZ Bank AG,
said in an e-mail today.  Hungary  needs to raise additional revenue, cut spending
further and tap budget reserves set aside for 2012 based on its
new forecast, Csefalvay told TV2 today. The government faces an
additional 200 billion-forint shortfall for 2012, based on
estimated growth of 0.5 percent and an exchange rate of 300
forint per euro, Csefalvay said in the interview.  The projection for “growth must be cut to, at most, 0.5
percent but that’s the upper limit,” Orban said in his
television interview. “It may be lower.”  IMF, EU  The country also needs an IMF safety net to be able to
weather the impact of the euro area’s crisis, Orban told
lawmakers today. Development Minister Tamas Fellegi, who asked
to resign said on Dec. 8, will be take a new position of
minister without portfolio to concentrate lead talks with the
Washington-based lender and the EU, the premier said.  Hungary won’t rush to sign the fiscal accord agreed to by
euro area leaders last week in Brussels as the agreement effects
the country’s sovereignty, Orban said.  Hungary needs to see the full text of the EU accord, for
which European leaders set a March deadline, before making a
decision because it remains unclear what obligations the
countries aspiring to join the euro area will face according to
the new rules, Orban said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  