-- 
Whitehaven Coal, Aston Resources Said to Strike Deal, Plan Statement Today

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-12-11T20:57:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/whitehaven-coal-aston-said-to-strike-deal-plan-statement-on-monday.html
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)  and  Aston
Resources Ltd. (AZT) , the Australian coal miners that said on Dec. 5
they were in talks to merge, reached an agreement on the terms
and plan to make an announcement today, according to two people
with knowledge of the deal.  The transaction will include Boardwalk Resources, a
privately held coal mining investment company backed by  Nathan Tinkler , Aston’s chairman, said one of the people, who asked not
to be identified because the details are private. The people
declined to disclose the structure of the deal.  Whitehaven has a market value of A$2.9 billion ($3
billion), and Aston has a market value of A$2 billion, according
to Bloomberg data. Joining the two companies would combine
Aston’s Maules Creek project in the Gunnedah Basin with nearby
Whitehaven mines that produced 4.2 million metric tons of coal
last year as demand from  China  and  India  grows.  This year there have been 79 coal deals involving companies
from  Australia , the world’s biggest coal exporter, worth $9.37
billion, compared with last year’s record $9.44 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest of this
year was Peabody Energy Corp.’s $4 billion takeover of Macarthur
Coal Ltd. in July.  Adjacent Operation  The deal may include a cash component for Whitehaven
shareholders, the Australian Financial Review reported today,
without saying where it obtained the information.  Tim Allerton, of City PR, an external spokesman for Aston
Resources, declined to comment as did Tony Haggarty, managing
director of Whitehaven.  Whitehaven, based in Sydney, had cash and near-cash items
of A$141 million as of Dec. 31, while Aston had cash of A$342
million. Whitehaven put itself up for sale in October last year,
ending the process in May, saying the offers it received didn’t
reflect the value of its assets.  Aston’s Maules Creek project, which it bought for A$480
million in February 2010 from Rio Tinto Group, is located within
20 kilometers (12 miles) of Whitehaven’s Narrabri North mine in
New South Wales state. Maules Creek is scheduled to start output
in the second quarter of 2013, with production rising to more
than 10 million metric tons of semi-soft coking coal used in
steelmaking from 2014 and will be using the same rail and port
as Whitehaven.  Whitehaven plans to boost production to almost 14 million
tons of coal for fiscal 2014 ending June 30, it said in a Oct.
28 presentation. Whitehaven is forecast to earn net income of
A$63 million in the six months to Dec. 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Global seaborne demand for coking coal will grow by 5
percent annually to 2025, as Chinese steel output increases to
about 1.1 billion tons, BHP Billiton Ltd., the biggest exporter,
said Sept. 30. Every ton of crude steel needs about 600
kilograms of metallurgical coal, BHP said at the time.  Globally, there have been $35.4 billion worth of coal
takeovers this year, compared with the record $36.7 billion last
year. The average premium for those deals was 22 percent, the
data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  