-- 
Whitehaven Agrees to Buy Tinkler’s Australian Coal Mines for $2.8 Billion

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-12-12T06:37:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/whitehaven-coal-agrees-to-buy-aston-resources-for-2-3-billion-in-shares.html
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)  agreed to buy
billionaire Nathan Tinkler’s Australian mining assets for at
least A$2.72 billion ($2.77 billion) in stock, taking the value
of coal deals this year to a record.  Whitehaven is paying A$10.85 a share for Tinkler’s publicly
traded  Aston Resources Ltd. (AZT) , 11 percent more than its close on
Dec. 9. The 36-year-old will become Whitehaven’s biggest
shareholder after also selling his closely held exploration unit
Boardwalk Resources Pty for at least A$500 million in shares,
according to a statement today.  Buying Aston gives Whitehaven control of the Maules Creek
steelmaking coal project, which will more than double the
company’s output by 2016. Rising demand for coal in  China  and
 India  has pushed coal deals globally to a record $37.4 billion
this year, compared with $36.7 billion last year.  “There is a certain amount of logic putting the two
companies together,” Neil Boyd-Clark, an  executive director  at
Arnhem Investment Management Pty in Sydney which manages A$3.5
billion in funds, said by phone. “China absolutely dominates
the market for both coking and thermal coal.”  Whitehaven fell 1.4 percent to A$5.74 at the close of
Sydney trading. Aston, based in Brisbane, rose 1.4 percent to
A$9.90.  Coal deals involving companies in Australia, the world’s
biggest exporter of the fuel, total 80 this year worth a record
$11.4 billion, compared with last year’s $9.44 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest was Peabody
Energy Corp.’s $4 billion takeover of Macarthur Coal Ltd. in
July. The average premium paid globally this year was 21
percent.  Aston Deal  The Aston deal is priced at 2.14 times its asset value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
median total asset value multiple of 3.06 times across seven
comparable coal deals in  Australia , the data show.  Tinkler will own about 19 percent of Whitehaven after the
deal, making him its largest shareholder. He won’t join the
board of the new company, Whitehaven Managing Director Tony Haggarty said on a call with reporters.  Tinkler, with a fortune of A$1.13 billion according to
Business Review Weekly magazine, is Australia’s youngest
billionaire. He is a former electrician turned resources
entrepreneur, with business interests including coal mining,
rail and port infrastructure and horse racing.  “The deal makes sense from a logistical point of view,
that’s the main driver behind it,” Peter Rudd, mining and
resource analyst at Armytage Private Ltd. in  Melbourne , said by
phone. “We’re likely to see more consolidation among smaller
coal companies.”  Maules Creek  Aston’s Maules Creek project, which it bought for A$480
million in February 2010 from Rio Tinto Group, is located within
20 kilometers (12 miles) of Whitehaven’s Narrabri North mine in
New South Wales state.  Shareholders of Aston will receive 1.89 Whitehaven shares
for each of theirs and current Whitehaven holders will receive a
special 50 Australian cent dividend. Boardwalk shareholders will
get an extra 34 million Whitehaven shares, worth A$198 million,
based on Whitehaven’s Dec. 9 closing price, on receipt of mining
leases and environmental approvals at any two of Boardwalk’s
five projects.  “By combining these assets we can ensure the most economic
and sustainable development of the combined coal resources,”
Whitehaven’s Haggarty, who will manage the new company, said in
the statement. Mail Vaile, non-executive deputy chairman of
Aston, will become independent chairman.  Takeover Target  The combined company may also be an attractive takeover
target for Chinese or Indian companies seeking coal supply, Rudd
said.  “When a company bulks up, it tends to become more
attractive, especially for international parties,” he said.  Aston is being advised by UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group
AG. Whitehaven is being advised by Goldman Sachs Australia Pty.
and Grant Samuel and Associates Pty.  Maules Creek is scheduled to start output in the second
quarter of 2013, with production rising to more than 10 million
metric tons of semi-soft coking coal, used in steelmaking, from
2014 and will be using the same railroad and port as Whitehaven.  Whitehaven plans to boost production to almost 14 million
tons of coal in the year ending June 30, 2014, it said in an
Oct. 28 presentation. Whitehaven is forecast to earn net income
of A$63 million in the six months to Dec. 31, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Global seaborne demand for coking coal will grow by 5
percent annually to 2025, as Chinese steel output increases to
about 1.1 billion tons, BHP Billiton Ltd., the biggest exporter,
said Sept. 30. Every ton of crude steel needs about 600
kilograms of metallurgical coal, BHP said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  