-- 
Yuan Offshore Markets May Pose Policy Threat to China, BIS Says in Report

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-12-12T13:43:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-11/yuan-offshore-markets-may-pose-policy-threat-to-china-bis-says.html
(Corrects McCauley’s title and location in third
paragraph.)  The yuan’s offshore markets could
undermine government efforts to control credit markets to avoid
asset bubbles,  Bank for International Settlements  said in a
report released today.  Mainland companies are selling yuan-denominated bonds in
offshore markets and access to those funds could “accelerate
large Chinese firms” exiting from the domestic banking system,
posing threats to the predominance of Chinese lenders, according
to BIS.  “Eventually, banks will forge strong links between the
offshore renminbi interbank market and its domestic counterpart,
challenging monetary and credit control,” Robert McCauley, a
senior adviser at BIS, wrote in the report. Easy repatriation of
funds raised abroad and offshore loans priced below minimum
regulated rates could pose threats to  China ’s policy, the Basel-
based McCauley said.  Hong Kong is a major offshore yuan center for China. Vice
Premier  Li Keqiang  pledged Chinese support for the city to
fulfil that role during a visit in August. Singapore,  London  and
 New York  are also vying to be offshore yuan trading centers.  Sales of yuan-denominated bonds in  Hong Kong , more than
half sold by Chinese companies, have jumped to 148 billion yuan
($23 billion) so far this year, compared with 36 billion yuan in
the whole of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
city’s yuan-denominated syndicated loans may reach 20 billion
yuan to 30 billion yuan next year, Ming Pao Daily reported on
Dec. 5, citing Wilson Wan, head of the leveraged and structured
finance division at BOC International Holding Ltd. in Hong Kong.  “At this stage, border controls on renminbi inflows limit
the impact of the offshore renminbi bond market on domestic bond
market rationing,” McCauley said. “The more that offshore
renminbi are given a passport to enter the mainland freely, the
more prices in the offshore market will matter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  