-- ‘Spider-Man’ Spins $35 Million Opening Ahead of July 4
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-07-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/-spider-man-spins-35-million-opening-july-4-strategy.html
“The Amazing Spider-Man,”  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s restart of the hit movie franchise with  Andrew Garfield 
taking the title role, generated $35 million in opening-day
ticket sales at U.S. and Canadian theaters.  Sony released the film July 3 to capitalize on yesterday’s
U.S. Fourth of July holiday. The figure includes $7.5 million
from midnight screenings, researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The movie, Sony’s second’s big film of the summer, revives
a franchise that took in $2.55 billion in worldwide ticket sales
from three pictures, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.
This version has a new cast, with U.K.-raised Garfield replacing
Tobey Maguire. Garfield played Facebook Inc. co-founder Eduardo Saverin in “The  Social Network ” and is onstage as Biff Loman
in “Death of a Salesman” on Broadway.  “It’s a solid one-day opening and ‘Spider Man’ is expected
to be one of the summer’s strongest movies, given the strength
of the franchise over the years,” said  Paul Sweeney , a media
and entertainment analyst for Bloomberg Industries.  Garfield portrays the orphaned  Peter Parker , coping with a
crush on high-school classmate Gwen Stacy while trying to
unravel the mystery behind his parents’ disappearance. A visit
to a high-tech research laboratory results in a spider bite that
endows him with extraordinary powers.  Emma Stone  is featured as Stacy.  Martin Sheen  and Sally
Field co-star as Peter’s Uncle Ben and Aunt May.  Sales Forecast  “The Amazing Spider-Man” is benefiting from critical
praise. Of 168 reviews compiled on Rottentomatoes.com, 123, or
73 percent, were positive as of July 3.  Outside  North America , where it was released in some
markets this past weekend, the movie has made more than $50
million, according to Box Office Mojo.  “Based on this Tuesday performance, Spidey could do a lot
better than the $110 million to $120 million originally expected
for the first six days,”  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com’s box office division, said in the statement.  The film set a record for box-office sales on a Tuesday,
surpassing “Transformers,” which took $27.9 million on July 3,
2007, according to Dergarabedian. Over last year’s July 4
holiday, the sequel “Transformers: Dark of the Moon” made
$180.7 million in its first six days.  The last Spider-Man movie to open over the July 4 holiday,
“Spider-Man 2,” made $180.1 million in its first six days in
2004.  Studio Ranking  The original series co-starred Kirsten Dunst as Mary Jane
Watson, a subsequent girlfriend in the Marvel Comics series.
Cliff Robertson played Uncle Ben and Rosemary Harris portrayed
Aunt May. The last film in the trilogy was released in 2007.  U.S. American depositary shares of Sony, based in  Tokyo ,
gained 0.5 percent to $14.27 on July 3 in  New York  and have
declined 21 percent this year.  The company’s  Culver City , California-based Sony Pictures
ranked third this year in domestic box-office revenue with
$785.8 million as of July 1, according to Box Office Mojo.  The studio’s top film this year is the May 25 release “Men
in Black 3,” with $170.2 million in U.S. and Canadian sales,
according to the researcher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  