-- Labour’s Balls Denies That He Pressured Barclays on Libor
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-04T15:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/labour-s-balls-rejects-suggestion-he-pressured-barclays-on-libor.html
U.K. opposition Labour Party Treasury
spokesman  Ed Balls  rejected Conservatives’ suggestions that he
steered  Barclays Plc (BARC)  toward Libor fixing in 2008.  The dispute stems from an Oct. 30, 2008 e-mail written by
 Robert Diamond , who quit yesterday as Barclays chief executive
officer after the bank admitted to fixing the rate, which is
used as a global benchmark. It cited the  Bank of England ’s Paul Tucker as relaying a suggestion from a “senior” official to
lower Libor. Conservatives openly speculated about the role of
Balls, a former economic aide to Premier Gordon Brown who was
then a minister.  “At no point did I have any conversation with Mr. Tucker
at all, at any time when I was a Treasury minister, a Treasury
adviser or subsequently to that when I was a Cabinet minister,”
Balls told the  BBC  today. “The allegations which are made are
entirely false and without foundation.”  Paul Myners , the City minister in Brown’s Labour
administration in 2008, also denied today he’d spoken to Tucker,
now the central bank’s deputy governor, about Libor. The then
chancellor of the exchequer,  Alistair Darling , issued a similar
denial yesterday, and the  BBC cited  another ex-minister, Shriti Vadera, as saying she’d not spoken to anyone at the BOE about
Libor.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said there were
questions to be asked of “the Labour government and the people
around Gordon Brown.” In an interview with The Spectator to be
published tomorrow, Osborne singled out Balls.  Osborne’s Challenge  “My opposite number, who was the City minister for part of
this period and  Gordon Brown ’s right-hand man for all of it, so
he has questions to answer,” Osborne told the magazine.
“That’s Ed Balls by the way.”  Balls was in charge of the government’s financial policy
for over a decade and served as Treasury minister in 2006 and
2007. Balls pointed to the fact that he was children’s secretary
in Brown’s government at the time of the call in 2008.  Labour lawmaker  Chris Leslie  said Osborne is “lashing out
in a frenzied way that demeans the office of the chancellor of
the exchequer.”  “It is now increasingly clear that he isn’t interested in
getting to the truth, only in playing party politics and
throwing around false allegations with no evidence.”  The e-mail in question, released by Barclays yesterday, was
from Diamond to  John Varley , the CEO at the time, and purported
to recount his conversation with Tucker.  “Tucker stated that the levels of calls he was receiving
from Whitehall were ‘senior’ and that while he was certain we
did not need advice, that it did not always need to be the case
that we appeared as high as we have recently,” the e-mail said.  Categorical Denial  “I can say quite categorically I didn’t speak to Paul
Tucker or anybody at the Bank of England about the Libor rate-
setting process,” Myners told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program
today. He said no one else at the Treasury under Darling was
responsible either.  “I am absolutely sure  Paul Tucker  will have a recording of
the conversation or he would have had his private secretary
listening to the call,” Myners said. “Paul Tucker will have
his own contemporaneous record of that conversation. The Tories
are putting a lot of flak up, trying to take attention away from
their role.”  Tucker today asked to testify in the House of Commons to
give his version of what happened on the call with Diamond.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net.or 
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  