-- Lagarde Consumed by Crisis Steers IMF Tough Love to EU
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-07-05T07:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/lagarde-consumed-by-crisis-steers-imf-tough-love-to-eu.html
Discussing climate change was a
welcome break for  Christine Lagarde  from the  European debt
crisis  that has consumed her first year as director of the
 International Monetary Fund .  “I’m very pleased to be here today, not only because we’re
not going to talk at all about the euro zone, not at all about
Greece, not at all about Spain,” she said in a June 12 talk to
the Center for Global Development in  Washington , drawing laughs
from her audience.  Then Europe caught up with her, again. Four days after the
event, Lagarde, 56, canceled plans to join leaders at a summit
on sustainable development in Rio de Janeiro. Instead, she flew
to Luxembourg to urge finance ministers of the 17 euro countries
to take further steps to save their monetary union, which has
already required almost 500 billion euros ($629 billion) in
funds for indebted nations and their banks.  So it’s gone for the former French finance minister. Over
the year, she has signed off on a second Greek bailout, called
for European banks to be recapitalized and traveled from
Brasilia to Beijing to obtain more lending resources as Europe’s
turmoil threatens global growth.  The challenge of leading a global institution that’s
increasingly focused on one continent isn’t over. With 80
percent of the IMF’s credit set to be tied up in Europe by 2014,
the region represents a growing risk to the fund’s resources and
reputation among non-European nations, just as Greece seeks to
renegotiate the conditions attached to its bailout.  Established Independence  “Lagarde took over the head job at the IMF as the European
representative but quickly and forcefully established her
independence,” said  Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the
 Brookings Institution  in Washington. She “has maintained a
delicate balance between keeping the IMF involved in the euro
zone debt crisis without inflicting too much damage to the
institution’s credibility.”  The crisis has engulfed two more countries since Lagarde
assumed the fund’s top job one year ago following the
resignation of former chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , who quit
after being arrested in New York on charges including attempted
rape. Those charges were later dropped.  She inherited loans to Greece, Portugal and Ireland that
are administered with other “troika” members, the European
Commission and the  European Central Bank , along with an informal
agreement that the IMF would finance a third of future bailout
packages. Spain sought a bailout from Europe in June and Cyprus
has requested aid from Europe and the IMF.  Europe’s Expectations  Lagarde also carried expectations among the European policy
makers who had supported her candidacy that she would be an
ally. The expectations didn’t last.  Less than two months into the job, Lagarde called on the
Europeans to urgently recapitalize their banks or face a
liquidity crisis. The German and Spanish governments rejected
the idea the next day, saying enough had been done already.  She advocated a larger bailout fund, jointly issued euro
bonds and steps toward a banking union. In a shift from the
Strauss-Kahn era, she also scaled down the share of IMF funding
in Greece’s second loan and said Europeans alone would have to
fill the gap if the country’s program went off track.  “In the end she was more of a prod by telling things quite
clearly at the right time” to Europeans, said  Gilles Moec , co-
chief European economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  Last week’s summit of European leaders, who eased lending
and aid conditions, was “of more significance” than past
attempts to stem the crisis, Lagarde told Bloomberg contributor
 Judy Woodruff  in a July 3 televised interview.  ‘New Direction’  “They need to move towards fiscal union as well, which
will take probably more time, more summits, more illusion,
disillusion,” Lagarde said. “But they’re heading in a new
direction together and that’s a clear sign that things are
changing.”  To some outside Europe, Lagarde’s prodding isn’t enough.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he’s told
Lagarde he’s worried that the IMF’s room to maneuver is
constrained by the “troika” system.  “That’s not the traditional way the IMF operates,”
Flaherty told reporters in Washington on April 19.
“Traditionally, the IMF would direct what needed to be done.”
In past crises, including in Asia in the late 1990s, the IMF and
central banks would sit on opposite sides of the negotiating
table.  Emerging Markets  Also scrutinizing Lagarde are leaders of emerging-market
countries, many of which contributed to an increase in the
fund’s resources and are demanding  voting rights  that better
reflect their economic size. The $456 billion raised between
April and June fell short of her original goal of $600 billion
as the U.S. declined to chip in.  A 2010 agreement boosting the clout of countries including
China and South Korea is still pending approval by the  U.S.
Congress  and others just as the IMF’s 188 member nations brace
for another round of voting-rights negotiations.  “Many countries, including Brazil, voted for her with the
expectation she would follow through with the reforms of the
fund,” said Paulo Nogueira Batista, who represents Brazil and
eight other countries at the IMF board and said he was speaking
only for himself. “So far the reforms are moving slowly. She is
deeply involved in the European process,” he said by telephone.  Still, Mexican central bank governor Agustin Carstens, who
himself had been a candidate for the IMF post, campaigning on
breaking Europe’s hold over the leadership, said Lagarde has
done a “very good job given the circumstances.”  Future Willingness  The IMF’s future role “will depend on the willingness of
the countries to request the support of the fund,” he said in an
interview yesterday in Mexico City.  Lagarde has also spent time in the past year traveling to
seek contributions for her war chest. She jokingly waved her
purse at delegates to the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
Switzerland, including U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , saying she had
brought her “little bag to actually collect a bit of money.”  The first woman to head the IMF and one of the few non-
economists to head the institution, Lagarde vowed to increase
the number of women and the diversity of nationalities among IMF
staff to catch up with lenders such as the  World Bank .  While she has appointed a few women to top management
positions including at the IMF Institute, which trains
government officials, key departments such as strategy and
research remain in men’s hands. She also named the first Chinese
deputy managing director, Zhu Min.  Wheelchair-Bound  Board officials describe her working style as more formal
than Strauss-Kahn’s and say she intervenes less during
discussions. On a March day she arrived at a board meeting in a
wheelchair from a sports injury and made no mention of what had
happened to her, according to two officials who declined to be
named because the meetings are not public.  Lagarde’s training as a lawyer -- she was chairman of
Chicago-based law firm Baker & McKenzie LLP for six years -- is
reflected in her choice of words. Asked by Vogue which economist
she felt affinity with, she said she was “with  Adam Smith .”  She did trip over a question on Greece in a May interview
with the Guardian, saying many people in the country were
“trying to escape tax all the time.” The remark provoked
thousands of comments on her Facebook page. She later told the
board she regretted her comments had been misunderstood.  In November she turned to a veteran staffer, Reza Moghadam,
to head the European department. He replaced Portuguese national
 Antonio Borges , a former vice chairman at Goldman Sachs
International appointed by Strauss-Kahn. Borges resigned for
“personal reasons” a month after making comments that implied
the fund could intervene in bond markets. He later retracted.  While Lagarde didn’t mention that shakeup in her Washington
 speech  on  climate change , she did say her law-firm experience
gave her training for her current post: “I was told that if I
was capable of managing 600 partners I could herd as many cats
in the world as was required.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  