-- Aging Population Undermines Longer-Maturity Bonds: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-07-04T13:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/aging-population-undermines-longer-maturity-bonds-euro-credit.html
The euro-region’s ability to grow its
way out of the debt crisis faces a roadblock -- an aging
population.  While Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and his Spanish and
French counterparts push for measures to spur an economic
expansion,  Italy ’s structural dependency ratio exceeds 50
percent. In other words, the number of working-age people is
less than half the total population. The government forecasts
the ratio will reach 63 percent in 2030 and 83 percent by 2065.  Aging and shrinking labor pools are adding to budget woes
in the region where the unemployment rate is already at a record
high. The risk is that without an overhaul of benefit programs,
governments will be unable to balance their books as tax
revenues shrink and unfunded pension and health-care liabilities
balloon. Longer-maturity bonds in  Spain , Portugal and  Greece  are
underperforming their shorter-dated counterparts amid concern
the nations’ finances will keep deteriorating.  “You just can’t create growth out of thin air and the
demographic trend in the  euro zone  isn’t conducive to growth,”
said Humayun Shahryar, who helps oversee $100 million as chief
executive officer at Auvest Capital Management Ltd. in Nicosia,
Cyprus. “For a long time, the economic expansion in the region
was fueled by low borrowing costs that came with the monetary
union. That’s no longer the case and the shrinking working-age
population is a problem.”  Spread Widening  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold 30-year Italian
bonds instead of similar-maturity German securities was 388
basis points at 2:14 p.m. in  London , up from 119 three years
ago. The average over the past 10 years is 95 basis points, or
0.95 percentage point.  The proportion of people older than 65 in  Europe  will rise
to 19 percent in 2020 from 16.6 percent this year, according to
projections from the U.S. Census Bureau. Only  Japan ’s ratio is
higher, at 23.9 percent for 2012, hampering its efforts to shake
off two decades of stagnation.  In Spain, where the  unemployment rate  of 24.6 percent is
the highest in the  European Union , the government is paying
about 7 billion euros ($8.70 billion) a month to retirees, up
from 3.84 billion euros in 2000. The ratio of workers paying
into the system per retiree has fallen to 2.43, the lowest since
2003, Deputy Social Security Minister Tomas Burgos said June 5.  Spanish bonds with  maturities  of 10 years or longer handed
investors a 7.1 percent loss this year, while securities due in
one to five years dropped 0.7 percent, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  Greek Demographics  The proportion of people aged 65 or older in Greece will
climb to 26.7 percent in 20 years from 20.8 percent in 2012,
according to Global Demographics Ltd., a Hong Kong-based
 research company . The figure for under 25 years will drop to
23.6 percent from 25.1 percent.  Greece’s ratio of debt to gross domestic product will
increase to 168 percent next year from 161 percent this year,
the European Commission said in report on May 11.  “That doesn’t even include unfunded liabilities which
could probably take it close to 800 percent of GDP,” said
 Stuart Thomson , who helps oversee about $115 billion as a  money
manager  at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow. “Governments try
their best to ignore demographics because it’s outside their
term of office, but it’s a very important factor for an investor
like myself. Bond yields in troubled nations will stay elevated
for a long time, and we don’t own them.”  Jobless Rate  The euro-area jobless rate rose to 11.1 percent in May, the
highest since the data series began in 1995, the European
Union’s statistics office said on July 2.  The debt crisis and budget cuts have resulted in an
economic slump that sent the region’s business confidence to the
lowest in more than two years in June. Companies, including
Deutsche Lufthansa AG, PSA Peugeot Citroen and Spanish news
agency Efe, are seeking to trim jobs to meet weakening demand.  “There is a big challenge ahead, and the deteriorating
economic outlook will make it harder to fix the problem,” said
Pavan Wadhwa, global head of  interest-rate  strategy at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in London. “Peripheral countries need to be
committed to reforms and austerity programs to bring debt to
sustainable levels in order to win investor confidence.”  The  European Central Bank  will cut its benchmark interest
rate to a record 0.75 percent tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of 62 economists. Five predicted a reduction of 50
basis point and 11 saw no change.  Brussels Meeting  Spanish and Italian bond yields dropped the most this year
on June 29 after EU leaders meeting in Brussels agreed to loosen
bailout rules, move toward a banking union and break the link
between sovereign and banking debt through the direct
recapitalization of lenders.  Spain’s  10-year yield  fell 61 basis points to 6.33 percent
on June 29 and was at 6.37 percent today, still above its 10-
year average of 4.30 percent. Italy’s 10-year bond yield is 5.76
percent, versus the decade-long average of 4.42 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  recommended June 21 that
euro-area nations issue common debt, saying the crisis was at a
“critical” stage. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  proposed a
plan that centers on common banking supervision and deposit
insurance, along with a phased move toward joint debt issuance.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  remains opposed to debt sharing.  The risk is Europe’s debt problem is so structural and
fundamental that these measures won’t solve it unless leaders
address the demographic shift, said Auvest’s Shahryar, who
prefers investing in countries with both population and
productivity growth such as the U.S., Australia and  Canada .  “In Europe, we have come to a point where neither
households nor governments can create much more debt,” he said.
“Euro bonds aren’t going to make the population younger. They
aren’t going to create jobs. They just allow some countries to
borrow more. Europe needs to think of a new model of growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson in London at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  