-- Mahindra Said to Consider Bidding for Hawker Beechcraft
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-07-04T18:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/mahindra-said-to-consider-bidding-for-hawker-beechcraft.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s
biggest maker of utility vehicles, is considering bidding for
Hawker Beechcraft Inc., the bankrupt aircraft maker part owned
by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  Hawker would fit well with Mahindra because both produce
turboprop aircraft, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the deliberations are private. The Mumbai-
based company has not decided whether to make an offer, the
person said. Roma Balwani, a spokeswoman for Mahindra, said the
company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Mahindra, which purchased majority stakes in component
maker Aerostaff Australia and turboprop aircraft manufacturer
Gippsland Aeronautics in 2009, has been in talks with India’s
National Aerospace Laboratories on possibly partnering for a
regional jet. A successful bid for the business jet-maker will
catapult Mahindra into the aerospace market as a manufacturer,
according to Dhiraj Mathur of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “This is a sensible move as with an acquisition, they get
access to years’ worth of technology and certification,” said
Mathur, a Gurgaon, India-based executive director at PwC’s unit.
“Mahindra will jump up the value chain. It’ll give them
aersopace capabilities. They will be able to participate as an
OEM and not a partner of an OEM.”  Ssangyong Purchase  Shares of Mahindra were little changed at 718.55 rupees
yesterday in Mumbai. They have gained 5.4 percent this year,
compared with a 13 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index. (SENSEX)  Of the 61 analysts who track the stock, 46 recommend
buying the shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mahindra Group is a conglomerate with 110 subsidiaries in
finance,  information technology , real estate and resorts.
Mahindra last year  acquired 70 percent  of South Korean automaker
 Ssangyong Motor Co. (003620)  for $378 million.  The tractor maker, which formed its aerospace division in
2007, makes light aircraft, as well as parts for  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
737s, Gulfstream Aerospace Corp. business jets and  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, according to its
 website .  The company had cash and short-term investments of 54
billion rupees ($989 million) as of March 31, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Indian automaker in March said it was in exploratory
talks with National Aerospace to partner the state-owned plane
designer in developing a planned regional jet. NAL last year
announced the 40 billion-rupee plan to develop a 90-seat
aircraft as the country joins China in trying to form a globally
competitive aerospace industry.  Revamp Plan  Hawker, which makes the Beechcraft King Air turboprop and
the Hawker 4000 business jet, filed a reorganization plan in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court on June 30 that would give control of the
Wichita, Kansas-based company to secured creditors who hold debt
valued at almost $922 million.  Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, the fifth-biggest U.S.
bank’s private-equity arm, and Toronto-based  Onex Corp. (OCX)  bought
Hawker in 2007 for $3.3 billion. Hawker reported net losses
totaling more than $900 million in the past two years as U.S.
military contracts and plane sales declined.  Hawker competes with Cessna Aircraft Co,  Embraer SA (EMBR3) ,
Gulfstream Aerospace Corp. and  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  to supply
business jets in the mid- and light-aircraft categories.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at   kchua6@bloomberg.net  