-- Thai Court Opens Hearings on Amending Post-Coup Constitution
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-07-05T09:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/thai-court-opens-hearings-on-amending-post-coup-constitution.html
Thailand ’s Constitutional Court opens
hearings today to determine if allies of fugitive former premier
 Thaksin Shinawatra  can rewrite a charter ratified after the army
ousted him in 2006, raising the possibility of street protests.  The court last month ordered Parliament to halt
consideration of an amendment that would establish a body to
rewrite the constitution until it decides whether the process
complies with the current charter. The ruling may undermine
plans by the party of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra,
Thaksin’s sister, to change the document to increase the power
of elected politicians over appointed judges and bureaucrats.  Thaksin’s supporters say the court is exceeding its
authority while his opponents see the amendments as part of a
strategy aimed at allowing him to return four years after
fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power. A resurgence of
political protests could present an opportunity to buy stocks,
said  Andrew Stotz , an investment strategist at Maybank Kim Eng
Securities (Thailand) Pcl, the nation’s largest brokerage.  “Regardless of politics, this economy and the companies in
it continue to crank on,” Stotz said. “Political instability
is nothing new.”  Thailand’s  consumer confidence  rose in June as easing  oil
prices  and improving economic indicators support the nation’s
outlook. An index measuring sentiment rose to 68.5 from 67.1 in
May the University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce said
yesterday. The gauge is based on a survey of 2,232 respondents.  Stock Rally  The  SET Index (SET)  has gained 17 percent this year, more than
benchmarks in Indonesia, Malaysia and  Singapore . Overseas
investors bought a net $2.1 billion of Thai stocks this year,
the most among Southeast Asian countries tracked by Bloomberg.  The judges will decide whether the process violates Article
68 of the constitution, which restricts attempts “to overthrow
the democratic regime of government with the King as Head of
State.” The clause allows the court to disband political
parties that contravene the stipulation.  About 200 people showing support for both the monarchy and
the judges gathered outside the courtroom today, while a similar
number of police officers stood by. The court asked seven
witnesses to testify today and eight more tomorrow, including
house speaker Somsak Kiatsuranont, a member of Yingluck’s Pheu
Thai party. It’s unclear how long it will take to reach a
verdict.  Judge Withdraws  One of the court’s nine judges withdrew from the case today
after a Pheu Thai lawyer brought up his role in drafting the
current constitution, court president Wasan Soypisudh said. A
minimum of five judges is needed for a decision, he said.  Deputy Prime Minister Chalerm Yoobamrung said this week he
expects the court to dismiss the case. Yingluck would remain as
prime minister even if the party was dissolved because she’s not
on the executive committee, and other members would form a new
organization that could be called “Thaksin,” he said.  “I believe the court will dismiss the case and the nation
can move forward,” Chalerm said on July 2. “There is nothing
to worry about. The court may give in and have mercy.”  The opposition Democrat party argues that forming the 99-
member drafting assembly violates the constitution, and
amendments must be done section-by-section within Parliament,
according to Korn Chatikavanij, a deputy leader and former
finance minister.  “It’s nothing to do with the monarchy or the monarchy as
an issue,” he said in an interview last month. “It’s the
concept of providing a blank check to write a whole new
constitution without giving parliament any recourse.”  ‘Drastic Change’  The Attorney General declined to forward the petitions to
the  Constitutional Court , saying last month that the amendment
process complies with Article 68. The court violated the
constitution in accepting the case without a recommendation from
prosecutors, according to Chaturon Chaisang, a former Cabinet
member in a Thaksin government. Changing the 309-article
constitution section-by-section may take a decade, he told
reporters last month.  “If you want this constitution to be democratic you have
to do a drastic change,” Chaturon said. “In practice, if the
court rules that this amendment is unconstitutional, it would
mean they have already closed the door to the amendment of the
constitution forever.”  Yingluck campaigned on changing the constitution before her
party’s majority win in elections a year ago and included plans
for a drafting assembly in a policy statement. A reconciliation
committee established under the previous administration warned
the Constitutional Court in a letter last month to undertake a
“strict interpretation” of the law, saying rulings seen as
political may undermine the judiciary.  Constitutional Crisis  The courts have played a leading role in determining Thai
political outcomes since 2006, when  King Bhumibol Adulyadej 
called on judges to resolve a pending constitutional crisis.
Since then, judges voided an election won by Thaksin’s party,
disqualified about 200 politicians linked to him, sentenced him
to jail and seized 46 billion baht of his wealth.  King Bhumibol, 84, took the throne in 1946 and serves as
head of state. Insulting him can lead to a 15-year jail
sentence.  Only two of 17 constitutions since absolute monarchy ended
in 1932 have mandated parliaments that are entirely elected. The
current one, drafted by a military-appointed assembly and passed
in a referendum without a parliamentary vote, includes a half-
appointed Senate.  More Protests  The court will probably rule that parliament must vote on
the final amended document instead of having it go straight to a
referendum, similar to the process for the 1997 constitution,
according to Jade Donavanik, dean of the graduate school of law
at Bangkok’s Siam University. The ruling may lead to
demonstrations from either the Thaksin-aligned  Red Shirts  or
opponents known as the Yellow Shirts, he said.  If Thaksin’s allies “start all over again, then the Yellow
Shirts will not come out,” said Jade, who sat on a panel
created by former Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  to recommend
constitutional changes after street protests in 2010 that killed
more than 90 people. “But if they don’t back off, then the
Yellow shirts will come out and that’s going to be a crisis. I
can see street battles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  