-- Malaysia’s Exports Rose More Than Economists Estimated in May
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2012-07-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/malaysia-s-exports-rose-more-than-economists-estimated-in-may.html
Malaysia’s exports rebounded, growing
more than economists estimated in May after falling for two
months, giving the central bank scope to keep  interest rates 
unchanged even as Europe’s debt crisis threatens demand.  Overseas shipments  rose 6.69 percent from a year earlier
after falling 0.1 percent in April, according to a Trade
Ministry statement today. The median of 17 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 4.5 percent increase.  The gains may be short-lived as Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis and falling commodity prices weaken the outlook for
exports.  Bank Negara Malaysia , which refrained from joining
Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines in cutting borrowing
costs earlier this year to bolster growth, will hold its
benchmark rate at 3 percent tomorrow, all 19 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg News predict.  “Export growth will face headwinds in the months ahead from
sluggish external demand and moderating commodity prices,”
 Daniel Wilson , a Singapore-based analyst at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said before the report. Still, “the
policy rate remains accommodative and will likely remain on hold
unless the external sector deteriorates further,” he said.  Palm-oil futures on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange fell
11 percent in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Palm
oil and mineral fuels account for 82 percent of Malaysia’s  trade
surplus , according to ANZ estimates.  Malaysia’s  imports  rose 16.24 percent in May from a year
earlier, today’s report showed. The trade surplus narrowed to
4.6 billion ringgit ($1.5 billion) from 7.51 billion ringgit in
April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  