-- All-Star Free Agents Parise, Suter to Play Together in Minnesota
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-04T18:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/all-star-free-agents-parise-suter-to-play-together-in-minnesota.html
All-Stars Zach Parise and Ryan Suter,
former first-round draft picks and two of the  National Hockey
League ’s most-coveted free agents, signed with the  Minnesota
Wild .  Parise, a 27-year-old left wing, and Suter, a 27-year-old
defenseman, both received 13-year contracts, the Wild announced
today on its website without providing financial details. The
contracts are each worth $98 million, according to  ESPN .  “This is a great day in the history of the Minnesota
Wild,” general manager Chuck Fletcher said on the website. “We
view this as a rare opportunity for us to transform our
franchise by adding two marquee players, who are both in the
prime of their careers, at the same time.”  Less than an hour after the signings were announced, the
Wild website opened to a photo of the two players and a link to
the team box office. The link was accompanied by an open letter
to fans from team owner Craig Leipold.  “I know they both had numerous, attractive offers (some
higher than ours),” Leipold said. “They’ve had first-hand
experience with the extraordinary pride and unrelenting passion
of our fans. Ultimately, I firmly believe that you fans were the
deciding factor in their decision.”  The Wild, who entered the NHL as an expansion team in 2000,
have not made the playoffs since 2008. In three postseason
appearances, the team has advanced past the opening round only
once, in 2003.  “This is a huge step forward in our quest to bring a
 Stanley Cup  to the deserving fans of the State of Hockey,”
Fletcher said.  Seven Seasons  Parise has 194 goals and 216 assists in seven seasons after
being taken by the  New Jersey  Devils with the No. 17 selection
in the NHL 2003 Draft. As team captain he led New Jersey to the
2012 Stanley Cup Final, where the Devils lost in six games to
the  Los Angeles Kings .  An All-Star in 2009, Parise has scored at least 30 goals in
five seasons, including a career-high 45 in 2008-09. His father,
J.P. Parise, played for the Minnesota North Stars for parts of
nine seasons, and Zach went to high school in Faribault, 55
miles south of Minneapolis.  Suter spent his entire seven-year career with the  Nashville
Predators  and last season set a career high with 46 points, tied
for 10th-most among NHL defensemen. His 23 points on the power
play and 26 minutes and 30 seconds of ice time per game were
both third-best at his position.  Drafted seventh by the Predators in 2003, the 6-foot-1
Suter grew up in Madison,  Wisconsin . He played in his first NHL
All-Star Game.  Parise and Suter were teammates on the U.S. team that won
a silver medal at the 2010 Winter Olympics in  Vancouver . In the
gold medal game against  Canada , Parise scored with 25 seconds
remaining in the third period to force overtime. They were also
teammates on the U.S. team that won the gold medal at the 2004
World Junior Championships.  -- Editor: Bob Bensch.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  