-- Altana Chief Says Valuations Hampering Pursuit of Fifth Division
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-07-04T13:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/altana-chief-says-valuations-hampering-pursuit-of-fifth-division.html
Altana AG Chief Executive Officer
Matthias Wolfgruber said his search for an acquisition to add a
fifth division to the German chemicals maker is being hampered
in part by the high price tags placed on potential targets.  “You can often find attractive targets that are
unavailable or available at too high a price,” the CEO said in
a phone interview. “Very clearly we talk to people. But we can
only do it if everything falls into place.”  The maker of coatings additives, owned by  Susanne Klatten ,
has 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) in equity available and no
debt, Wolfgruber said. Altana has approached companies as it
seeks to branch out into a new area, he said. He declined to
discuss potential candidates.  Wolfgruber is looking to replicate Altana’s 2005 purchase
of Eckhart, which added pigments used in car paint and
cosmetics. Altana has focused on higher margin specialty
chemicals that can be tailormade for customers in small batches
to stave off competition from  BASF SE (BAS)  and other major chemical
companies that are moving closer toward the consumer.  Altana, based in Wesel,  Germany , is investing 100 million
euros a year to bolster existing operations and expand in
 emerging markets  such as  Brazil . Investment in automotive plants
and car-part factories in the South American nation is fueling
demand for materials, helping offset a slowdown in  Europe ,
Wolfgruber said.  U.S. Recovery  The CEO predicted growth in both earnings and sales this
year, after record business in May and a rebounding U.S. market.
There are no signs of destocking as customers are managing
inventories better, he said.  “2012 is quite a good year, better than expected so far,
but we’re expecting a more difficult second half,” Wolfgruber
said. “It’s not like it was in 2008, the whole supply chain is
more effective.”  The search for the fifth division continues, and the
complexity of integrating some targets into a large corporation
means Altana will have opportunities to pick off the right
targets even amid interest in specialty products by companies
such as BASF, according to Wolfgruber.  Management, including Altana’s corporate development team,
sit down each year to review the mergers and acquisition
situation, a process that extends over half a year.  “Some day we will be successful in this, we’re not
panicking,” he said. “I’m not worried that the market will dry
up and we will be left behind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  