-- Mandate Not the Only Health Tax Republicans Backed
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-07-04T22:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/mandate-not-the-only-health-tax-republicans-backed.html
Is the Affordable Care Act really
“the largest tax increase in the history of the world,” as  Rush Limbaugh  so grandiloquently put it? No. It’s not even the
largest tax increase in the history of this country.  Or of the past 50 years. Or 20. It’s not even the biggest
tax increase scheduled to take effect in the very near future.
(That’s the expiration of the George W. Bush tax cuts slated for
New Year’s Day.)  Typically, we estimate taxes over 10 years. Contrary to the
claims of Republicans such as House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor ,
who says the Affordable Care Act has “six years of benefits with
10 years of tax increases,” most of the law’s tax increases
don’t kick in until the latter part of the decade. So a 10-year
budget window can be misleading in the case of the Affordable
Care Act.  Fortunately, in its 2010 Long-Term Budget  Outlook , the
 Congressional Budget Office  resolved this problem, estimating
the size of the Affordable Care Act’s tax increase in the year
2020, by which point all the taxes will be fully in effect. So
how big is it? One half of one percent of GDP. That’s about the
size of  Bill Clinton ’s 1993 tax increase or  George Bush ’s 1991
tax increase, and much smaller than  Ronald Reagan ’s 1982 tax
increase.  Still, it’s a big tax increase. The money, though, is not
coming from the source that many suspect -- or even from one
that Republicans necessarily oppose.  Political Opening  This conversation kicked up because the  Supreme Court   ruled 
the individual mandate a tax rather than a penalty and
Republicans saw a political opening. But whatever you think of
the mandate, it’s not a big contributor to the law’s new taxes.
In 2019, the Affordable Care Act is expected to bring the
federal government $104 billion in new revenue. The individual
mandate accounts for about $7 billion of that. It’s not a
rounding error, but it’s close.  So where does the money come from? The law’s biggest tax
increase, at least in the first decade, is a 0.9 percent
increase in the Medicare payroll tax paid by Americans earning
more than $200,000 a year. Long-term, however, the largest
increase -- and certainly the most important one for the future
of the health-care system -- will be the excise tax on high-
value health insurance plans, which begins in 2018.  Few phrases in the English language send readers fleeing as
quickly as “excise tax on high-value health insurance plans.” So
I’ll try to address this as quickly and painlessly as possible.
It’s a tax on unusually expensive, employer-provided health
insurance plans. It begins at $10,200 for an individual plan and
$27,500 for a family plan. Above that, there’s a 40 percent tax
on the excess premiums. So if your plan is valued at $11,200,
your employer will pay a 40 percent tax on the $1,000 surplus.  Over time, the thresholds will rise more slowly than
health-care costs, which means the tax grows bigger. But the
idea behind the tax isn’t to raise money: It’s to change
behavior. The hope is that it will pressure employers and
workers to choose less-expensive plans. If it works, additional
 tax revenue  will be generated less by so-called “Cadillac” plans
subject to the excise tax than by employers delivering more of
their workers’ compensation in the form of taxable wages and
less in the form of expensive health-care benefits.  This is actually an attempt to address a core Republican
concern: The tax break for employer-provided health insurance,
which Republicans believe encourages employers to spend too much
on health care while also making it impossible for a health-care
system not based on employers to emerge.  Republican Ideas  Don’t believe me when I say that’s high on the Republican
agenda? In 2007, President  George W. Bush  announced the only
major health-care initiative of his eight years in office other
than the 2003 Medicare prescription drug bill. The policy, which
went nowhere, sought to “level the playing field for those who
do not get health insurance through their job” by ending the
unlimited tax break for employer-based insurance in favor of a
$15,000 tax deduction for families and a $7,500 tax deduction
for individuals to purchase health insurance.  In 2008, Republican presidential candidate  John McCain 
offered a similar plan: He proposed ending the unlimited
employer deduction and instead giving every family a $5,000 tax
credit and every individual a $2,500 tax credit.  This year,  Mitt Romney ’s health-care proposal -- although
it’s so vague it hardly merits the term -- gestures toward the
same idea: His website says he will “end tax discrimination
against the individual purchase of insurance.”  All of these proposals, including the Affordable Care Act’s
excise tax, work in fundamentally the same way, by imposing
limits on what is now an unlimited deduction for employer-
provided health insurance, thereby encouraging employers to
offer cheaper health plans and provide more compensation to
workers in the form of taxable wages.  So when Republicans call the Affordable Care Act “the
largest tax increase in the history of the world,” they’re not
only wrongly supersizing the tax, they’re also attacking a
reform that they’ve long supported themselves, in somewhat
different configurations.  Yet in a way,  Barack Obama ’s campaign deserves the cheap
shot. When McCain proposed his health-care plan in 2008, the
Obama camp called it, yes, “the largest middle-class tax
increase in history.”  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on U.S.  funding for Unesco  and
on states’  abuse of federal foreclosure aid ;  Susan Antilla  on
 prison sentences for white-collar felons ;  Michael Kinsley  on the
 corporate right to free speech ; Gordon Kerr on why devaluing the
pound would be a  form of default .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 