-- Aquarius Asks Rivals to Halt Mines to Curb Platinum Glut
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-07-05T09:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/aquarius-calls-on-rivals-to-halt-mines-to-revive-platinum-profit.html
Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , the weakest
performer among 610 stocks on  London ’s FTSE All-Share Index in
2012, challenged rivals to cut production and end a supply glut
that means as much as half of industry output is unprofitable.  “We seem to be one of the few companies in the platinum
industry that is willing pro-actively to take the required tough
decisions,” Chief Executive Officer Stuart Murray said. “I
would hope that the other industry players follow suit and cut
the unneeded production that is depressing the industry.”  The company idled its South African Everest and Blue Ridge
mines, and Marikana venture with  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) 
That hasn’t stopped it falling 70 percent in London as platinum
slid 14 percent from the year’s high in February and wage and
power costs rose faster than inflation in  South Africa . The
country contributes more than three-quarters of world output.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , based in London, is reviewing assets of
its platinum unit, which along with  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. (IMP) , contributes more than two-thirds of the world’s supply of
the metal used in jewelry and pollution-cutting auto-catalysts.  “Around half of production is under water at current  price
levels  after accounting for sustaining capex,”  Suki Cooper , a
commodity analyst at Barclays Plc in New York, said yesterday in
a note. “Although the rand weakness offers a temporary respite,
our forex strategists expect it to strengthen modestly over the
next six months, bringing the cost floor back into focus.”  Cost of Production  The metal, today at $1,488 an ounce, may average $1,523 in
the fourth quarter, New York-based CPM Group said July 2.  Platinum costs an average $1,437 an ounce to extract, said
 Thorsten Proettel , a Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg analyst in
 Germany , who was the third-most accurate forecaster of platinum
prices in Bloomberg Rankings in the two years through December.  Aquarius fell 1.6 percent to 47.47 pence by 9:38 a.m. in
London, and has lost 85 percent of its value in the past year.
Anglo American Platinum has fallen 30 percent in Johannesburg
trading in the period and Impala declined by 29 percent. The
rand has weakened by 10 percent since the end of February.  “Clearly there is excess capacity,” Kobus Nell, a  fund
manager  at Stanlib Collective Investments Ltd., said by phone
from Johannesburg, estimating at least 500,000 ounces of surplus
metal. “It’s not as simple as just taking metal out and just
closing mines. In some cases, towns were built around these
mines, so if you pull out you’re going to leave a ghost town.”  Job Losses  South Africa, concerned about job losses in a country where
one in four are without work, set up a team to study how to help
the industry, Mines Minister Susan Shabangu said last month. At
the same time safety stoppages enforced by the government after
mining deaths to try to reduce fatalities has hurt operations.  “South African mining legislation is strangling the
platinum industry as mines struggle to operate in tough ground
conditions,” said  John Meyer , a mining analyst at Fairfax IS
Plc. in London. “Mines have expanded into deeper areas raising
the risk of fatal incidents as well as the cost of production.”  Companies are also wary of cutting output in case prices
recover.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  said in May it would increase capacity amid
soft demand as the market in the mid-term is “sound, and this
strategy will benefit our shareholders as the market improves.”  Platinum may rise to $1,615 next quarter and $1,690 in the
final three months of the year, Barclays said on June 13.  “The board and management of Aquarius are acutely aware of
the difficulties facing the industry at present,” Murray said
yesterday in a statement from Perth, Australia-based Aquarius.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke (nee Lourens) in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  