-- Marcus Says South Africa Growth Outlook Worsens on Europe
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-07-04T17:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/marcus-says-south-africa-growth-outlook-worsens-on-europe.html
South Africa’s economic outlook has
“deteriorated” and inflation will probably remain within the
bank’s target range through 2014 as the debt crisis in Europe
persists, the  Reserve Bank  said.  Inflation, which probably peaked in the first quarter, is
on a declining trend, Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus told
reporters in  Pretoria  today. Inflation reached a high of 6.3
percent in January, according to the statistics agency.  “The domestic growth outlook has also deteriorated mainly
due to the global uncertainties,” Marcus said in the central
bank’s annual report, released in the city. Inflation will
“remain within the target range on a sustained basis over the
forecast period.”  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  has warned that the outlook
for Africa’s biggest economy is worsening as manufacturing and
consumer spending growth slows more than forecast. The debt
crisis in Europe is eroding export demand from a region that
buys about a third of  South Africa ’s manufactured goods.  The Reserve Bank has limited room to lower the benchmark
lending rate with inflation staying near the upper end of the
bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range, Marcus said on May
24. The inflation rate was 5.7 percent in May.  The lending rate is “supportive of the domestic economy
without undermining the bank’s primary objective of  price
stability ,” Marcus said in the report.  Growth Slows  Weak economic growth numbers and the potential for a
further material slowdown in inflation raises the possibility of
an interest rate cut, Arthur Kamp, an economist at Cape Town-
based Sanlam Investment Management, said by phone.  “Our view has been that  interest rates  would remain flat
through this year certainly and, if not, through most of next
year,” he said. “We also admit that given the kind of numbers
that we are seeing at the moment, you cannot discount another
rate cut.”  Investors have increased bets on a reduction in the
benchmark rate, with forward rate agreements starting in six
months dropping 50 basis points since the start of April to 5.25
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic growth slowed to an annualized 2.7 percent in the
first quarter from the previous three months. Retail sales
contracted in the first quarter and manufacturing growth almost
stalled in April. The  purchasing managers’ index  fell below 50
for the first time in six months in June, indicating
manufacturing output shrank, Kagiso Tiso Holdings Ltd. said on
July 2.  Europe Crisis  Economic conditions in  Europe  and the fiscal constraints in
the U.S. are damping prospects for global growth, Marcus said.  Marcus, speaking at an event in Johannesburg, said the
global economy is facing a situation similar to the Great
Depression. The European crisis is “dire” and the region has a
“rough ride” ahead, she said at a meeting hosted by the Chabad
Young Achievers Forum. The Reserve Bank’s inflation-targeting
framework is the “right” policy for the economy, she added.  Gordhan lowered his growth forecast for this year to 2.7
percent, while the central bank in May cut its prediction to 2.9
percent from 3 percent.  Rand Risk  The rand’s recent slump has overtaken  oil prices  as the
main risk to inflation, Marcus said. The currency has dropped 17
percent against the dollar in the past year, the second-worst
performer among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
The rand weakened 0.8 percent to 8.1436 against the dollar by 1
p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the rand bond due in 2015
fell 1 basis points to 5.96 percent.  Oil in  New York  has dropped 10 percent in the past year.
South Africa cut the gasoline price by 7.3 percent in Gauteng
province this month.  “Whereas previously oil was seen as the main upside risk
to the inflation outlook, more recently the depreciation of the
rand in response to global  risk aversion  became the main upside
risk,” Marcus said.  The central bank is considering adding  yuan  to its foreign-
currency reserves, Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  told reporters
in Pretoria.  “We are considering it as part of of the overall review
given the growing links of trade with South Africa and  China ,”
he said. “It is important we give that some consideration.”  The bank holds 52 percent of its assets in dollars and 14
percent in euros, according to the annual report. Gross reserves
reached $48.9 billion at the end of May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  