-- Stocks in Europe Drop With Euro; Asian Shares Advance
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2012-07-04T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/asian-stocks-gain-yen-weakens-on-stimulus-hopes.html
The euro declined on speculation the
 European Central Bank  will cut  interest rates  to a record low
tomorrow after a report showed Germany’s services industries
unexpectedly shrank last month. Metals fell and European stocks
pared their drop.  The euro depreciated 0.7 percent to $1.2524 at 4:54 p.m. in
 New York . Copper decreased 1.3 percent and  Brent crude  dropped
0.9 percent. The  Stoxx Europe 600 (SXXP)  Index was little changed after
falling 0.5 percent. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures were
little changed on the U.S. Independence Day holiday. Italy’s
10-year bond snapped four days of gains.  A gauge of German services fell to 49.9 in June, less than
the earlier reading of 50.3, according to London-based Markit
Economics, with a figure below 50 indicating contraction. Other
reports showed euro-area services and manufacturing output
declined for a fifth month and China’s services expanded at the
slowest pace in 10 months. ECB President  Mario Draghi  will
probably cut the benchmark  rate  by a quarter-percentage point to
0.75 percent, according to the median forecast of economists in
a Bloomberg survey.  “Slow growth dynamics and uncertainty are pressuring the
euro,” said  Gavin Friend , a London-based markets strategist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. “The ECB will probably cut
tomorrow. Draghi has hinted that an easing of policy is on the
way. The euro will probably lag behind, with other currencies
rallying more.”  IMF Outlook  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its U.S. growth
estimate yesterday and said the  Federal Reserve  may need to
further ease monetary policy.  The Stoxx 600 was little changed after rallying 5.2 percent
over the previous three days. The gauge is still on course for a
fifth straight week of gains, the longest stretch since January,
as European leaders agreed to address flaws in their bailout
programs to ease the sovereign-debt crisis and speculation grew
that central banks will take steps to boost the economy.  Futures on the  S&P 500 (SPX)  fluctuated after the index completed
its biggest three-day rally of the year. U.S. equity and bond
markets were closed today.  A report on July 6 is forecast to show that U.S. employers
added 90,000 to payrolls in June after a gain of 69,000 in May,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Alcoa Inc.,
America’s biggest aluminum producer, is due to kick off the U.S.
earnings-reporting season July 9.  The euro fell 0.6 percent against the yen, dropping versus
13 of its 16 major peers. Sweden’s krona climbed to its
strongest level against the euro since December 2000 after
Sweden’s central bank left its main interest rate unchanged.  Bunds Gain  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond rose 14 basis points to
5.77 percent, widening the spread with German bunds by 21 basis
points to 430 basis points. Italy’s budget deficit increased in
the first quarter to 8 percent of gross domestic product, the
highest in three years. The yield on five-year German debt fell
seven basis points to 0.48 percent, the lowest closing level
since June 18.  Brazil’s Bovespa rose 0.5 percent as  Usinas Siderurgicas de
Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) , a steelmaker, increased 3.3 percent. It rallied
8.3 percent yesterday as Reuters, citing two people familiar
with the matter whom it didn’t identify, reported that the
company is raising prices. Usiminas declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg. The MSCI Latin America index retreated
0.4 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index of Canadian
stocks climbed 0.6 percent as financial companies rallied after
the Competition Bureau approved a proposed bid for the Toronto
Stock Exchange by a group of Canadian banks.  The Kospi Index gained 0.4 percent in South Korea as
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  advanced 1.7 percent after it sold more cars
in the U.S. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies slipped 0.3 percent. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) 
fell less than 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 Swallace6@bloomberg.net  