-- Asian Currencies Advance After U.S. Factory Data Tops Estimates
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-07-04T09:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/asian-currencies-advance-after-u-s-factory-data-tops-estimates.html
Asian currencies rose, led by South
Korea’s won and India’s rupee, after U.S. factory orders topped
estimates, tempering concern global economic growth is slowing.  The won touched the highest level in two months after data
showed orders rose for the first time in three months. Asian
stocks rose for a sixth day ahead of a European Central Bank
meeting tomorrow at which 51 of 62 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast a  benchmark  interest-rate cut. China may
lower banks’ reserve-requirement ratios three more times in 2012,
 Shanghai  Securities News reported on its website, citing a
report released by the China Banking Association today.  “U.S. factory orders were better than expected,” said
 Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
Singapore. “Markets are also celebrating the expectation of
more policy stimulus.”  The rupee gained 0.2 percent to 54.26 per dollar as of 2:44
p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won
strengthened 0.2 percent to 1,135.70, Taiwan’s dollar rose 0.1
percent to NT$29.866 and Thailand’s baht climbed 0.1 percent to
31.46.  Factory orders in the world’s largest economy rose 0.7
percent, following a revised 0.7 percent drop in April, the
Commerce Department said in  Washington . Economists had predicted
a 0.1 percent gain, based on the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey. Further monetary-policy easing may be needed by the
 Federal Reserve  if the U.S. economy deteriorates, International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday.  Thai Stock Purchases  The baht reached a two-week high as global funds boosted
holdings of the nation’s stocks by $109 million in the first two
days of this week, exchange data show. The  finance ministry 
raised its 2012 economic growth forecast to 5.7 percent on June
28 from its March prediction of about 5.5 percent.  Speculation on policy easing in the U.S. and Europe
“supported  market sentiment ,” said Tohru Nishihama, an
economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo.
“That makes it easier for investors to take risks, helping to
boost emerging-market currencies.”  Malaysia’s ringgit rose as much as 0.4 percent before
trading little changed at 3.1527 per dollar. A report today
showed exports jumped 6.7 percent in May from a year earlier,
compared with the median forecast for a 4.5 percent gain in a
Bloomberg survey. Overseas sales fell 0.1 percent in April.  China’s  yuan  gained 0.07 percent to 6.3477 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The People’s Bank of China raised the  reference rate  by 0.09
percent to 6.3121 per dollar.  Peso Retreats  “Investors are expecting better data from the U.S. and
China, with global central banks on track with more easing
measures,” said Tommy Ong, senior vice-president of treasury
and markets at DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Ltd.  The Philippine peso retreated from a four-year high after
the central bank pledged to curb excessive volatility in the
currency. The peso snapped a six-day gain after Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said in an e-mailed reply
to questions yesterday that the monetary authority is “watchful
for signs the speculative part is not overtaking the fundamental
flows.” The currency weakened 0.3 percent to 41.833 per dollar.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah gained 0.1 percent to 9,357
per dollar and Vietnam’s dong was steady at 20,890.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 