-- Australian Dollar Reaches Two-Month High on Retail Sales
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-07-04T06:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/aussie-trades-near-2-month-high-before-retail-sales-data.html
Australia ’s dollar touched a two-
month high as a government report showed retail sales rose in
May, adding to signs of resilience in the nation’s economy.  The so-called Aussie climbed for a fourth day after  Reserve
Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens said yesterday growth
is close to trend and data showed home-building approvals soared
by a record in May. New Zealand’s dollar maintained a three-day
gain as Asian stocks extended a worldwide rally amid speculation
global central banks will act to spur economic growth, boosting
demand for higher-yielding currencies.  The sales report “adds to a run of numbers in Australia
that have generally been encouraging and beating expectations,”
said  Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency strategy in  Hong
Kong  at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank. “That’s
positive for the Aussie dollar.”  The currency climbed to $1.0320, the strongest since May 3,
before trading at $1.0290 as of 4:24 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0283
in New York yesterday. The Aussie fetched 82.09 yen from 82.05.
New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.1 percent to 80.49 U.S. cents, after
strengthening 2 percent over the previous three trading
sessions. The so-called kiwi was at 64.20 yen from 64.12.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield climbed five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.21 percent.  Retail sales  in Australia increased 0.5 percent from April,
when they rose a revised 0.1 percent, the Bureau of Statistics
said in Sydney today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists was for a 0.2 percent gain.  ’Healthy’ Economy  “The key for the Aussie is that the domestic story is
still quite healthy as the RBA said in a statement yesterday,”
said  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “Overall the Aussie should be fairly
well supported. We are on track for $1.0350 as the week
progresses.”  The Reserve Bank left the overnight cash-rate target at a 2
1/2-year low of 3.5 percent yesterday, after cutting it by a
total of 75 basis points in May and June.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares added 0.5 percent
today. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to a
two-month high and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1 percent
yesterday. U.S. markets are closed today for a holiday.  Economists in a Bloomberg poll said the  European Central
Bank  will probably cut  interest rates  tomorrow to stimulate
growth, while the  Bank of England  is forecast to raise its
target for bond purchases the same day. A state-owned newspaper
in China said the time is ripe for a reduction in banks’
 reserve-requirement ratios .  Aussie-Euro  Citigroup Inc. said selling the euro versus the Aussie is
still appealing even as the  currency pair  neared record levels.  “EUR-funded long AUD positions have demonstrated
surprising resilience in recent months,” Citigroup strategists
Josh O’Byrne and  Valentin Marinov  wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. “We expect this outperformance to continue as long
as two conditions persist - first, continued signs of
stabilization in Asian economic data and second, low levels of
European specific systemic risk.”  An  index  that tracks returns for so-called carry trades
that borrow in euro and invest in the Austrian dollar climbed to
223.4 today, the highest since the common currency’s debut in
1999.  The Aussie gained 0.2 percent to 81.71 euro cents, rising
for a fourth day. It reached a record high of 82.42 on Feb. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  