-- Aussie Falls From 2-Month High as Stocks Drop on Slowdown
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-07-05T06:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/aussue-is-near-recrod-versus-euro-before-ecb-boe-meet.html
Australia’s dollar fell from near a
two-month high as Asian stocks dropped amid signs of a global
economic slowdown, sapping demand for riskier assets.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, snapped two days
of gains against the yen before reports this week that may show
German factory orders dropped in May and U.S. payrolls for June
concluded the smallest quarterly advance in more than two years.
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said he will discuss trading
between the Chinese  yuan  and the so-called Aussie next week in
 Hong Kong .  “What we’ve got to remember is that the global economy
faces a number of issues,” said  Robert Rennie , chief currency
strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “On the medium-
term basis, we still see the Aussie lower.”  Australia’s dollar lost 0.1 percent to $1.0264 at 4:02 p.m.
in Sydney, after touching $1.0320 yesterday, the highest since
May 3. The currency slid 0.3 percent to 81.87 yen. New Zealand’s
dollar weakened 0.1 percent to 80.30 U.S. cents. It declined 0.2
percent to 64.06 yen, after gaining 0.1 percent yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares lost 0.2 percent,
snapping a six-day advance.  The yield on 10-year Australian government notes dropped
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.11 percent.
New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, fell three basis points to 2.79 percent.  Factory orders in  Germany , the euro zone’s biggest economy,
may have declined 6 percent in May from a year ago, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey before
today’s figure. They fell 3.8 percent in April.  U.S. Payrolls  U.S. employers probably increased payrolls by 90,000
workers last month after a 69,000 gain in May, a separate survey
showed before the Labor Department reports figures tomorrow.
Excluding government agencies, private hiring may have climbed
by 100,000, concluding the smallest quarterly advance since the
first three months of 2010.  Losses in the South Pacific nations’ currencies were
limited before  European Central Bank  and  Bank of England 
meetings today to discuss ways to provide economic stimulus.  The ECB will probably cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 25
basis points to a record low 0.75 percent today, while the BOE
is forecast to raise its target for bond purchases, according to
economists in Bloomberg News surveys.  “You might see the Aussie and kiwi supported a little bit
if the BOE and ECB do more stimulus,” said  Joseph Capurso , a
strategist in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA) 
“There’s a good chance that the Aussie-euro will soon hit a
record high.”  Near Record  The Australian dollar was at 81.92 euro cents from 82.03
yesterday, compared with a record high of 82.42 set on Feb. 7.  Swan said Australia is taking action to promote yuan-
Australian dollar transactions. China is Australia’s biggest
trading partner.  The yuan’s internationalization “is clearly in the
interests of Australian businesses and the broader Australian
economy,” Swan said today in a statement e-mailed from his
office in Canberra. “Both governments are very keen to see us
deepen and broaden this important market.”  A government report today showed  Australia ’s imports
outpaced exports by A$285 million ($293 million) in May, up from
a revised A$26 million gap in the prior month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  