-- Australia Navy Tracks Asylum Vessel Heading for Christmas Island
-- B y   G a r f i e l d   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-07-04T09:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/australia-navy-tracks-asylum-vessel-heading-for-christmas-island.html
Australia’s navy is monitoring a
vessel that is heading for  Christmas Island  after dispatching
the HMAS Wollongong to the area in response to a distress call
earlier this morning.  The Wollongong is remaining close to the ship, which is
heading under its own power for Christmas Island, an Australian
territory used as an immigration detention center, the
Australian government said today in a statement. A distress call
was received about 4:30 a.m. Sydney time from a boat about 90
kilometers (56 miles) south of  Indonesia  in the Sunda Strait,
the  Australian Maritime Safety Authority  said earlier.  “Though there are no obvious visual signs that the vessel
is in imminent danger, this will be assessed once the vessel has
been boarded, when weather conditions improve,” AMSA said in
the most recent statement. “Weather conditions in the area are
unfavorable, with rough sea conditions continuing.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is seeking to stem the flow of
asylum seekers who pay smugglers in Indonesia to ferry them in
overcrowded boats to Australia. There have been at least five
fatal incidents of human trafficking since 2010.  Gillard’s bid to create new laws against people-smuggling,
often in boats from Indonesia, was defeated in the Senate last
month. There have been at least five fatal incidents of human
trafficking since 2010, including on June 21 when about 90
people are suspected to have died after a boat capsized near
Christmas Island.  The minority Labor government is trying to resolve a
political stalemate over where to base offshore processing
centers for refugees who pay smugglers in Indonesia thousands of
dollars to ferry them in overcrowded boats to  Australia . The
nation’s first female prime minister trails in opinion polls,
with elections due by November 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  