-- Australia Retail Sales Rise More Than Forecast; Dollar Jumps
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-04T03:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/australia-retail-sales-rise-more-than-forecast-dollar-jumps-1-.html
Australian retail sales advanced more
than economists forecast in May on stronger spending at
restaurants and department stores, sending the local dollar to a
two-month high as traders pared bets on an interest-rate cut.  Sales climbed 0.5 percent to A$21.3 billion ($22 billion)
from a month earlier, when they rose a revised 0.1 percent, the
fifth straight monthly gain, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today. Sales in April were previously reported to have
dropped 0.2 percent. The May result compares with economists’
 forecast  in a Bloomberg survey for a 0.2 percent gain.  The longest stretch of retail sales increases since 2010
may encourage  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens 
to extend this week’s rate pause after 75 basis points in
reductions in May and June. Policy makers are trying to support
confidence that has weakened among  consumers  who are saving,
even as Australia recorded its best January-to-May period of
hiring in five years.  Spending “was concentrated in the discretionary segment,
adding to the overall strength of the report,” said Celeste Tay, a Singapore-based economist at 4cast Ltd. Excluding food
retailing, which accounts for 40 percent of the total and fell
for the first time this year, retail sales rose by “a more
robust 0.9 percent month-on-month,” she said.  Sales at cafes and restaurants jumped 1.4 percent in May
from a month earlier, and consumers spent 1 percent more at
department stores, today’s report showed. They spent 0.1 percent
less at food retailers, it showed.  Currency Strength  After the report, the local dollar reached $1.0320 in
Sydney, the highest level since May 3. Traders are pricing in a
52 percent chance Stevens will hold the benchmark rate at 3.5
percent for a second straight month in August, up from 43
percent yesterday, according to swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales in May were strongest in regions of the country where
the biggest resources boom since the 1850s is occurring, today’s
report showed. Sales were up 1.6 percent in  Northern Territory 
and 1.1 percent in Western Australia, where companies including
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  are extracting
 iron ore  and natural gas.  A strong currency has helped contain import prices and
costs for consumers. A private gauge of Australian inflation
released this week dropped in June on weaker fuel and furniture
prices, signaling little cost pressure on consumers in the
second quarter.  Job Growth  Australia unexpectedly added 38,900 workers in May, and
annual economic growth of 4.3 percent in the first quarter was
the fastest pace since 2007, government reports showed in the
past month.  Tay said she is cautious about the outlook for retail
because the nation’s job market is likely to come under
pressure.  “Unemployment expectations and perceptions of year ahead
family finances remain in recessionary territory,” she said.
“Prolonged financial market turbulence, global macroeconomic
uncertainty -- due to the ongoing euro-zone crisis and looming
U.S. fiscal cliff -- softening asset prices and job insecurity
are all headwinds to consumption in the period ahead.”  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , Australia’s largest retailer, projects
annual online sales will reach A$1 billion by the end of 2014 as
consumers shift to buying through websites and smartphone
applications.  Woolworths is tapping an increase in website shopping in
Australia, where online spending rose 37 percent to A$12.3
billion last year, according to  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  