-- Baht Steady Near Two-Week High After Funds Buy More Thai Assets
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-07-04T08:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/baht-steady-near-two-week-high-after-funds-buy-more-thai-assets.html
Thailand ’s baht was steady near a
two-week high after global funds boosted holdings of the
nation’s assets amid speculation central banks in developed
countries may ease monetary policy.  Government bonds  held steady.  International investors bought $109 million more local
equities than they sold in the first two days of this week,
exchange data show after the finance ministry raised its 2012
growth forecast to 5.7 percent on June 28 from its March
prediction of about 5.5 percent. The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of
shares rose for a sixth day ahead of an expected European
Central Bank rate cut tomorrow and as the International Monetary
Fund said further monetary-policy easing by the  Federal Reserve 
may be needed.  “There is growing speculation about additional monetary
easing in the U.S. and Europe, which supported  market
sentiment ,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life
Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “That makes it easier for
investors to take risks, helping to boost emerging-market
currencies.”  The baht was unchanged from yesterday at 31.48 per dollar
as of 3:07 p.m. in Bangkok and touched 31.38, the strongest
level since June 20, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, was steady at 4.52 percent.  Thailand’s consumer confidence rose in June as easing  oil
prices  and improving economic indicators support the nation’s
outlook. An  index (MXAP)  measuring sentiment rose to 68.5 from 67.1 in
May, the University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce said today.
The gauge is based on a survey of 2,232 respondents.  Global funds pumped a net $355 million into government debt
yesterday, the biggest net purchase since June 19, according to
data from the Thai Bond Market Association.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 was
little changed at 3.35 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 