-- Baltic Exchange Seeks to Double Asian Membership as Trade Shifts
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-07-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/baltic-exchange-seeks-to-double-asian-membership-as-trade-shifts.html
The  Baltic Exchange , whose benchmarks
for freight rates cover about 75 percent of global commodity
cargoes, plans to double its Asian membership in the next two
years to reflect a decade-long surge in trade to the region.  Quentin Soanes, who starts as chairman today, wants 25
percent of the Baltic’s members to come from  Asia  by the end of
his two-year term, from 10 percent to 15 percent now. The 268-
year-old London bourse will convert its  Singapore  representative
office into a full subsidiary that can collect fees and recruit
new members, he said in an interview.  Asia now accounts for about 63 percent of global seaborne
imports of crude oil and dry bulk commodities such as iron ore
and coal, from 45 percent in May 2002, according to London-based
Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker. Companies from  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to Cargill Inc. are also expanding in Singapore,
increasing the number of ships chartered there, Baltic Exchange
Chief Executive Officer  Jeremy Penn  said in an interview.  “The Baltic has been perceived as a very London-centric
organization,” said Soanes, 57, who retires July 31 as an
 executive director  at  Braemar Shipping Services Plc (BMS) , the U.K.’s
second-largest publicly traded shipbroker. “If we are going to
be relevant to the world, Asia is where we’re going to have to
do a lot more.”  The Baltic Exchange has its origins in a coffee house in
the British capital where ship captains met with merchants to
arrange charters. Its offices in London’s financial district are
near the Gherkin, the Swiss Re tower built on the site of the
old Baltic Exchange which was destroyed by an Irish Republican
Army bomb in 1992. The attack killed three people.  Million Barrels  The bourse publishes more than 50 indexes a day related to
individual trade routes, derived from prices submitted by 52
brokers. They are used as benchmarks for determining charter
rates for everything from tankers hauling 2 million barrels of
oil from  Saudi Arabia  to  Japan  to Capesizes carrying 150,000
metric tons of coal from South Africa to the Netherlands.  About 6.5 billion tons of commodities were moved by sea
last year, accounting for more than 70 percent of all seaborne
cargoes, according to Clarkson, which is also the Baltic
Exchange’s largest shareholder. Most of the rest is carried in
containers, which the Baltic Exchange doesn’t track. About 90
percent of world trade moves by sea, according to the Round
Table of Shipping Associations.  Iron Ore  Singapore had more than 10,000 jobs linked to offshore
trade in commodities and energy in 2010, 40 percent more than in
2006, according to government data. That means more ship
charters are being agreed to in Asia’s trading hours, spurring
the Baltic Exchange to alter the times at which it publishes
assessments for some routes, Penn said. The bourse now issues at
least 10 such prices, including rates for Supramaxes shipping
Indian  iron ore  to  China .  Chinese companies own the world’s fourth-biggest fleet,
after  Greece , Japan and  Germany , according to data from the
 United Nations . China’s fleet capacity expanded 65 percent in
the five years through 2011 as iron-ore imports more than
doubled and coal shipments rose sixfold. A unit of China Cosco
Holdings Co., the nation’s largest ship owner, is already a
member of the Baltic Exchange.  The bourse reported net income of 1.6 million pounds ($2.5
million) in the year ended March 31, 2012, on revenue of 5.5
million pounds. Its membership consists of 593 companies and
2,449 individuals, with shareholders ranging from Cargill to
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  to Glencore International Plc.  Hong Kong  It is one of the last member-owned bourses along with the
London Metal Exchange, whose board agreed to a $2.2 billion
takeover bid from  Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. last
month. The Baltic Exchange has received no such offers and its
rules were changed three years ago to stop anyone having a
controlling stake, said Soanes, who takes over from Mark Jackson
in a role that normally rotates every two years. Jackson works
as a managing director at A.M. Nomikos & Son (U.K.) Ltd.  The bourse rejected a proposal from the LME in 2010 to
cooperate on starting a freight derivatives exchange, instead
opting to create its own Baltex product, Penn said. The screen-
based trading platform handles forward freight agreements, used
by traders to bet on, or hedge, future transport costs.  The new product, developed for financial markets, is
another reflection of how the Baltic indexes are expanding
beyond the traditional  London  shipping base. About 90 percent of
vessel charters arranged by Braemar’s brokers in London now
involve companies outside the U.K., compared with about 20
percent 15 years ago, Soanes said.  “Singapore is becoming Far Eastern London,” he said.
“You can’t defend what is already changing and that’s why we’re
looking to expand overseas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingale@bloomberg.net  