-- BBC Names Entwistle as Director General to Succeed Thomson
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-07-04T11:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/bbc-names-entwistle-as-director-general-to-succeed-thomson.html
The British Broadcasting Corp., the
world’s oldest public broadcaster, named George Entwistle as its
new director general to succeedMark Thompson.  Entwistle, who currently oversees all the broadcaster’s
television channels, will have a salary of 450,000 pounds
($704,000) a year, 33 percent less than Thomson, the  BBC  Trust
said in a  statement  today. Thomson said in March he will step
down this autumn following coverage of the  London  Olympics and
after eight years at the helm. He was the BBC’s longest-serving
director general since the 1970s.  The commercial-free network, which is funded by fees from
U.K. television viewers, has cut jobs and moved some offices and
production outside London in recent years after its funding was
frozen. The BBC has undergone spending cuts of more than 1
billion pounds since 2008.  Entwistle, who joined the BBC in 1989 as a broadcast
journalism trainee, knows how the broadcaster can “harness the
creativity and commitment of its staff to continue to serve
audiences in ever more innovative ways,” BBC Trust Chairman
 Chris Patten  said. The trust sets BBC strategy and budgets.  Patten said in September that the radio and TV broadcaster
may have to eliminate some foreign news bureaus. The company
last year agreed in July to share its right to broadcast the
Formula One auto-racing series with  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc (BSY)   Thompson, who’s held the role of director general since
2004, leaves ahead of a review of the BBC’s charter that
addresses how the network should be funded and managed. Thompson
was previously head of Channel 4 television.  Other contenders for the BBC’s top job included Ed Richards, the chief at U.K. media regulator Ofcom who announced
his intention to seek the BBC post in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 