-- Growth Concern Damps Polish Rate-Increase Expectations
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-07-05T08:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/belka-s-growth-concern-damps-polish-rate-increase-expectations.html
Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka’s concern that the European Union’s biggest eastern
economy is slowing is damping expectations of  interest rates 
rising this year, according to economists from London to Warsaw.  The Narodowy Bank Polski, the only one in the 27-member EU
to raise borrowing costs in 2012, left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 4.75 percent yesterday as the sovereign-debt
crisis weighs on the economy. After the decision, Belka said he
is “more worried about economic growth and less worried about
inflation” than a month ago.  Unlike most central banks from  Brazil  to  Turkey , Polish
policy makers have kept a tightening bias as consumer prices
rise at the third-fastest pace in the 27-nation EU. Belka’s
focus on economic growth, set to slow to 2.7 percent this year
from 4.3 percent in 2011 according to the European Commission,
gave a “strong impression” of the Monetary Policy Council’s
shifting priorities, according to Nomura International Plc.  “The previous certainty and vigor of argument from the
MPC, and Belka in particular, had drained away,” Peter Attard Montalto, an emerging-markets economist at Nomura in  London ,
wrote yesterday by e-mail. “There was no rallying cry for
conservatism and pushing back against market pricing for cuts.”  Zloty, Bonds  The zloty traded 0.2 percent lower at 4.2208 per euro at 10
a.m. in Warsaw. The average yield on the two-year government
bond was up one basis point at 4.63 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The rate-setting panel refrained from altering borrowing
costs for a second month as it assesses the impact of the debt
crisis in the euro area, which buys more than half of its
exports.  “I wouldn’t go so far as to say that we are completely
changing our outlook,” though “should that worse scenario
materialize, then most probably our propensity to increase
interest rates will be weaker,” Belka told a news conference in
Warsaw after yesterday’s rate decision.  The Czech central bank cut its main interest rate to a
record low of 0.5 percent last week. The  European Central Bank 
kept its benchmark interest rate at 1 percent last month,
matching a record low, with President  Mario Draghi  saying “a
few” officials had opted for a cut. The Frankfurt-based ECB
will hold its next assessment today.  New Forecasts  Belka’s emphasis on Poland’s stuttering expansion, rather
than price growth, was bolstered by lower forecasts for
inflation and gross domestic product in 2012-2014, released by
the central bank after yesterday’s rate decision. The bank
revised down its predictions for both inflation and GDP.  “In the medium term, the economic slowdown amid fiscal
tightening and interest-rate increases implemented in 2011 and
2012 will be conducive to inflation returning to target” of 2.5
percent next year, the central bank said in the statement.  The bank changed this year’s forecast for economic growth
to 2.3 percent to 3.6 percent from 2.2 percent to 3.8 percent.
Inflation will average 3.6 percent to 4.2 percent, compared with
a March projection of 3.6 percent to 4.5 percent. Price growth
will slow to 2 percent to 3.4 percent in 2013, compared with an
earlier 2.2 percent to 3.6 percent forecast. The bank will
publish details of its Inflation and GDP Projection July 9.  ‘Doesn’t Justify’  “The new inflation and GDP projection doesn’t justify
monetary-policy tightening,” Piotr Bujak, chief economist at
Nordea Bank  Poland  said yesterday in an e-mailed note. “Our
forecasts are close to NBP estimates and we expect rates to
remain stable the rest of the year.”  The outlook for inflation and GDP is one of several
indicators the Council looks at when making its rate decision,
Belka said, adding that analysis not disclosed to the public
also confirm slowing inflation and weakening economic growth. He
also pointed to falling commodities prices, declining inflation
expectations and zloty gains “as factors helping policy makers
to refrain from the tightening.”  The central bank, which last year raised rates by a total
of 1 percentage point and then kept them at the highest level
since 2009 for 10 months, claims price stability as its prime
responsibility. Inflation has exceeded 3.5 percent, the upper
end of the bank’s tolerance limit, since January 2010.  September Meeting  While the central bank may “switch into neutral stance”
should economic data miss forecasts, an increase in borrowing
costs can’t be ruled out, according to Jaroslaw Janecki, chief
economist at the Warsaw unit of  Societe Generale .  “There’s still risk of one interest rate hike by a
quarter-point in September,” Janecki today said by phone.
The Council will hold its next rate meeting September 4-5.  Domestic and euro-region data released since the last rate
meeting suggest Poland’s slowing economy is at risk of
worsening.  Germany , which buys a quarter of Polish exports, saw
its industrial output shrink 2.2 percent in April, while its
business-climate index dropped to the lowest since March 2010.  Polish job growth at companies with more than nine workers
held at a two-year low in May, wages increased less than
forecast and retail sales rose at half the pace from a year
earlier. May price growth excluding food and energy slowed to a
13-month low of 2.3 percent, while households’ inflation
expectations declined in June to 3.7 percent, the lowest in 18
months. Inflation eased to a 15-month low of 3.6 percent in May.  Economic growth will slow to 2.5 percent in the second half
of 2012 from a year earlier, compared with 2.9 percent in the
first six months, according to the median estimate of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Risks to the central bank’s inflation projection are
skewed to the downside,” Gergely Hudecz, an economist at  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in Paris, wrote in a note to clients. “The MPC
will probably keep the policy rate unchanged at 4.75 percent
until end-2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  