-- Belka Says Polish Central Bank Sees ‘Strong’ Slowdown Symptoms
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-07-04T15:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/belka-says-polish-central-bank-sees-strong-slowdown-symptoms.html
Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka commented today on the outlook for interest rates after
the Monetary Policy Council kept the main  interest rate  at 4.75
percent, matching the forecast of all 34 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The following are selected comments from Belka at a news
conference in Warsaw following the rate decision.  On economic growth:  “Members of the Monetary Policy Council are analyzing the
incoming data and we’re seeing strong symptoms of an economic
slowdown.  “I’m certainly more worried about economic growth and less
worried about inflation than I was two months ago.  “I wouldn’t like to delete the last sentence of our
statement because that would mean our economic situation is
deteriorating faster than we’d thought.”  On interest rates:  “I wouldn’t say that our statement today signals change in
our policy bias.  “We continue to be vigilant.  “If we see a worse scenario for the economy materializing
then we’ll be less inclined to raise rates further.
Nevertheless, most members of the Monetary Policy Council
believe that meeting our inflation target requires positive real
interest rates. Our previous increase was a step toward
normalizing the level of interest rates. We’re probably not
there yet, but the situation is making it harder for us.  “The inflation outlook is improving, so we can take our
time to fully normalize rates.”  “Our rate moves will have an impact on the economy in
2013. Whether we raise or lower rates depends on how the
economic situation develops. We need to see whether the
weakening in growth that we saw in the first quarter
continues.”  On inflation:  “It’s hard to hold it against the Monetary Policy Council
that we’re so interested in inflation. That’s our mandate.  “Poland is one of the few countries that can afford to
conduct a conventional monetary policy and that means we have to
act against the buildup of imbalances in the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  