-- Bentley’s $345,000 Mulsanne Eases Manhattan Traffic Woes
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-07-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/bentley-s-345-000-mulsanne-eases-manhattan-traffic-woes.html
Some of us were born to drive, others
to be driven. A skittish to obnoxious passenger, I fall into the
former camp. The passenger seat gives me too much opportunity to
point out what the driver is doing wrong.  A recent surgery on my right shoulder rotator cuff put me
in a sling and out of the driver’s seat, just as Bentley offered
me use of its $290,000  Mulsanne  luxury sedan, complete with a
day’s use of a chauffeur.  Good timing. And an opportunity to see if rear passengers
do, sometimes, have it better.  Both Bentley and Rolls-Royce started as coach-built car
companies where the most important person sat in the rear.  Bentley doesn’t track the percentage of drivers who employ
a driver, though the numbers have surely fallen, as the driver-
oriented Continental GT series is now its best-selling model
line.  In  China , however, being chauffeured is a sign of status,
one reason why Audi sells so many long-wheelbase cars, and why
companies like Ferrari are creating cars such as the FF, with
full-sized back seats.  I’ve driven the Mulsanne before and found it to be a big
car that proved surprisingly wieldy. It drives a tidy line
despite its massive fenders, 7,055 pounds of gross weight and
length stretching more than 18 feet.  V-8 Power  The 6.8-liter V-8, with 505 horsepower and 752 pound-feet
of torque, shoots it forward as if on rails.  Three days after my surgery, Mike, my driver for the day,
pulled up outside my  Manhattan  apartment in an “extreme
silver” (a $4,225 paint option) Mulsanne, a car costing
$344,950.  He opened the door and I gingerly slipped into the right
rear. You need only nudge the door closed and it vacuum seals
itself automatically with a soft click. A fantastic detail.  The interior was tan leather with blue, deep-pile carpet.
The dash and sides of the doors were outfitted in a deep-
colored, burled wood.  I moved the front right seat forward using my own center
console controls for maximum leg room. I also engaged the spa-
worthy seat massage function and turned on the seat coolers.  The lap of luxury? Yeah, pretty much.  I told Mike we would head to  Brooklyn  to pick up my buddy
Josh, who complains that I refuse to meet him in his own
borough. We picked him up at his Carroll Gardens brownstone, and
then I asked Mike to take us directly back to Manhattan. (Happy
now, Josh?)  Backseat Screens  As the Mulsanne slipped into the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel,
we tried to figure out how to operate the remote control for the
back-of-the-seat screens. Josh wondered if we could watch live
TV (we couldn’t), and then spent five minutes trying to change
the  Sirius  satellite radio station.  My experience with Bentley’s electronic gadgetry has been
consistently poor, and we eventually asked Mike to simply change
the channel for us. I also noticed that Mike used his
cellphone’s navigation function rather than the car’s system.  Backseat arrivistes could opt for Bentley’s new “theater
specification” option, with a drop-down LED screen operated by
a hidden laptop. Or the optional rear fridge which accommodates
two bottles of the bubbly stuff.  My car didn’t come with those luxuries, but it did keep us
well entertained with the $7,400 Naim stereo, which sounds like
it has a gazillion speakers.  Maximum Volume  We put on a classical station just to hear the pomp and
circumstance at maximum clarity and volume. The helicopters
blaring Wagner in “Apocalypse Now” have nothing on this thing.  Midtown traffic, I noticed, was much less irksome when I
wasn’t doing the driving. In fact, after running a series of
errands which would have been otherwise painful, both physically
and psychically, I felt remarkably fresh.  Chores done, we picked up another friend at Union Square
and then spirited ourselves north to Central Park’s  Boathouse 
for a cool libation by the pond. Mike dropped us off among a sea
of ladies who lunch, saying he’d be waiting nearby.  Several hours later, it was time to jettison the boys and
pick up my wife Miranda from work. It was also Mike’s quitting
time. The keys were handed over to Miranda, who had been cleared
as my next driver.  We were headed for a weekend in the country, but
unfortunately started out during the worst of Friday rush-hour
traffic.  Miranda seemed remarkably unfazed. I popped out of the car,
ordered a sandwich, and returned to find the Mulsanne had moved
just three car lengths.  My patience was ebbing and she insisted that we put on the
Spa radio station. It actually helped. An hour and a half later,
we finally reached the Lincoln Tunnel.  I wisely chose to keep my mouth closed once we cleared the
city and Miranda exercised the full power of the Mulsanne.
Despite its size and cost, she handled it fearlessly.  With two hours more to go, I lowered my seat and closed my
eyes.  Being a passenger does have its pleasures.  The 2012 Bentley Mulsanne at a Glance  Engine: 6.8-liter, twin-turbo V-8, with 505 horsepower and
752 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Eight-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in about five seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 11 city, 18 highway.  Price as tested: $344,950.  Best feature: Drivability and backseat comfort.  Worst feature: Electronics are hard to figure out, even
with the back seat’s remote control.  Target buyer: The luxury lover who likes to split his time
between the front and back.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the auction
market,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art and  Warwick Thompson  on
London theater.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 