-- BOE’s Tucker Requests Hearing at U.K. Libor Probe
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-04T14:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/boe-s-tucker-requests-hearing-at-u-k-libor-probe.html
Bank of England  Deputy Governor Paul Tucker signaled he wants to defend himself and give his version
of what happened on a 2008 phone call with former  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
chief  Robert Diamond  as the Libor scandal escalates.  Less than 90 minutes before Diamond’s appearance today at a
hearing of U.K. Parliament’s Treasury Committee over attempted 
manipulation of the Libor rate, the central bank said Tucker 
wants to testify “as soon as possible.” He is “keen'' to 
“clarify the position with regard to the events involving the 
Bank of England, including the telephone conversation with Bob 
Diamond on Oct. 29, 2008,” according to an e-mailed statement.   Tucker was drawn into the scandal after Barclays released a
note of the 2008 call purporting to show that he hinted the bank
could cut its Libor rates. Diamond, who is giving evidence to
the TSC today, resigned as chief executive officer after
regulators fined the bank 290 million pounds ($453 million) for
attempting to rig the London interbank offered rate.  An Oct. 30, 2008, e-mail from Diamond, then the Barclays
investment-banking chief, to  John Varley , CEO at the time, reads
that “Tucker stated that the levels of calls he was receiving
from Whitehall were ‘senior’ and that while he was certain we
did not need advice, that it did not always need to be the case
that we appeared as high as we have recently.”  Government Source  Diamond said at the TSC today that he didn’t interpret the
call as an instruction from authorities to lower Barclays’s
Libor submissions.  He said that Tucker didn’t identify the “Whitehall
figures” who were concerned about the bank’s borrowing. He said
he interpreted Tucker as saying: “Bob, there are ministers in
Whitehall who are hearing that Barclays are always high. That
could lead to the impression that you’re not funding yourself.”  Paul Myners , who was minister for the City, London’s
financial district, under the last administration, denied he was
the source.  Ed Balls , the Labour Treasury spokesman who was a
Cabinet minister at the time, former Chancellor of the Exchequer
Alistair Darling and ex-minister Shriti Vadera also denied they
spoke to Tucker about Libor. Tucker was markets director at the
Bank of England at the time.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the Bank of
England didn’t give instructions to Barclays on Libor, the
Spectator magazine reported today, citing Osborne.  George Mudie and Andy Love, opposition Labour Party members
of the TSC, have called for Tucker to appear to answer the
allegations about Libor-fixing made by Diamond. A spokesman for
the committee had no immediate comment on Tucker’s request today
when contacted by telephone.  Libor Concerns  The central bank’s discussions on Libor stretch back to at
least November 2007, when the issue was raised in a meeting of
regulators and bankers led by Tucker to discuss liquidity
strains in the U.K.  Minutes of the  Sterling Money Markets Liaison Group  say
“several group members thought that Libor fixings had been
lower than actual traded interbank rates through the period of
stress.” British Bankers Association representative John Ewan
“outlined the quality control and safeguard measures used by
the BBA to ensure the quality of Libor,” the minutes said.
“Dispersion between panel banks’ submissions had increased
during August but had since fallen back, in part reflecting
clarification from the BBA on Libor definitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  