-- Boeing’s Air-Show Comeback Seen Tempered by Soft Economy
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-07-05T09:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/boeing-risks-stumble-with-air-show-comeback-as-economies.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s chance to eclipse  Airbus
SAS (EAD)  at the industry’s largest air show next week risks being
overshadowed by a faltering economy and its European rival
setting up a manufacturing hub in the U.S.  Orders at the expo starting July 9 in Farnborough,  England ,
probably will trail the 441 announced jet purchases valued at
$46.4 billion at the 2011 show as demand wilts amid  Europe ’s
debt crisis and a Chinese slowdown. That’s the backdrop for
Boeing to peddle its new 737 MAX after Airbus’s A320Neo
dominated last year’s event in Paris.  “Boeing will want to come up with some big orders for the
MAX, but I doubt they’ll be able to duplicate the Neo’s success
last year,” said Adam Pilarski, senior vice president at
consultant Avitas in Chantilly, Virginia. “The market is in a
different position now. We’re in a bubble environment, and
people may be beginning to realize that, so there may not be as
much crazy buying as last year.”  Planemakers’ parity in single-aisle jets, the most widely
flown models, tipped in Airbus’s favor in June 2011 in Paris,
where the Neo won 95 percent of such orders. Boeing rushed so
quickly to counter with the MAX that its  board  hadn’t even
approved the plane when the first sale was announced in July.  Product Portfolio  Having the MAX gives Chicago-based Boeing three jets to
trumpet this year that weren’t in its Paris lineup or were still
mired in years of delivery delays. The MAX succeeds the 737 Next
Generation, and the 787 Dreamliner and 747-8 jumbo jet have now
both been handed over to customers.  “Boeing is heading into this year’s show with a much
healthier product portfolio,” said  Yair Reiner , an analyst with
Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York . “Last year, it had to do battle
with a 737 NG that was long in the tooth versus the A320Neo.”  Airbus’s latest move in the Neo-versus-MAX contest came
this week with the decision to build a factory in  Alabama , its
first in the U.S., to assemble A320s. The Toulouse, France-based
planemaker has only 20 percent of the North American narrow-body
market and seeks to give its jets a local flavor.  Replicating 2011’s air-show order success isn’t in the
cards, Airbus has said, as the pace of Neo purchases slows. The
planemaker also is still struggling to convince buyers such as
Qatar Airways Ltd. that the largest variant of its A350 wide-
body can take on Boeing’s 777.  Not Saving Up  Boeing is also playing down the significance of headline-
grabbing orders at the event, saying Farnborough is rather an
opportunity to connect with customers and suppliers.  “We don’t save things up for the air show,” said  Randy
Tinseth , Boeing’s vice president of marketing. “That’s just one
week in 52.”  Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. has
 gained  66 percent since the end of 2010, when the company
introduced the A320Neo. Boeing, by contrast, has gained 14
percent in the same period.  The shows in Farnborough and Paris are held in alternate
years, forming the industry’s highest-profile showcase for
planemakers, their customers and suppliers. Boeing will add its
787 Dreamliner to the daily flight display, vying for attention
with Airbus’s A380 double decker. Airbus said today that it
pulled the A400M military transport from the daily display
because of issues with the engine gearbox.  Slowing Growth  The event marks a premiere for Ray Conner, who was Boeing’s
sales chief until he replaced  Jim Albaugh  as president of
Seattle-based Boeing Commercial Airplanes on June 27. Airbus has
also shuffled management, with  Tom Enders  moving up to lead
EADS, and Fabrice Bregier, Airbus’s former chief operating
officer, succeeding him at the planemaker.  Conner won’t have the Neo’s 2011 economic tailwind. Boeing
predicted on July 3 that growth in industry deliveries will slow
in the next 20 years as demand wanes for jumbo jets and
freighters, with the global fleet expanding at less than a fifth
of the rate predicted in 2011. Boeing made the prediction as
part of its annual 20-year forecast.  “In good times, when airlines are feeling buoyant, they
rush to order planes,” said Zafar Khan, an analyst at SG
Securities in  London . “That may not be the case in the current
economic climate.”  Global air traffic grew 5.6 percent in May, the smallest
gain since January, the  International Air Transport Association 
said July 2. Cargo traffic, which tracks the economy more
closely than passenger travel, was down 1.9 percent this year
through the first five months.  Gaining Market Share  Freighters make up almost two-thirds of the backlog of 86
planes for Boeing’s 747-8, which hasn’t won an order this year
after sales of only seven in 2011. And until  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  agreed
June 29 to buy 19 Boeing 767 cargo planes, the U.S. company had
gone six months without a freighter order.  Wide-body models such as Boeing’s 767 and Airbus’s A380
haven’t been a source of strength this year. Net orders for
Boeing among its 747-8, 767, 777 and 787 totaled only 12 planes
through June 26, according to the planemaker’s  website . Airbus’s
tally for twin-aisle and jumbo jets was 10 twin-aisle jets until
the end of May, the most recent month available.  “We shouldn’t be in an order race for Farnborough,” said
Airbus sales chief  John Leahy  in an interview July 2. “The real
contest should be measured over 24 month.”  Retaining Dominance  Leahy said Airbus’s goal is to have 60 percent of the world
market for single-aisle planes within the next few years, with
Boeing having 40 percent. Tinseth predicted Boeing’s 737 MAX
model, revamped with new engines, will be good enough to keep
market-share parity with Airbus’s A320Neo.  Boeing will probably retain 60 percent of the wide-body
market given the success of its 777 and 787 models, until Airbus
gets its A350-1000 into service, Leahy said. That plane is
scheduled to enter service in 2017.  Military sales won’t provide much of an industry lift this
year either, as cuts to the U.S. defense budget, the world’s
largest, threaten to overwhelm any boost from governments buying
new hardware.  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , the contractor whose products
include the B-2 bomber, isn’t sending top executives to
Farnborough, which is 38 miles (61 kilometers) southwest of
downtown London.  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , the avionics and
parts supplier, is also sitting out the event.  Even if new sales lag, the planemakers are busy filling
their existing orders, said Alex Hamilton, an EarlyBird Capital
analyst in New York. Boeing is boosting output by 40 percent in
three years to cut a 3,953-plane backlog. Airbus will increase
production 13 percent over two years as it tackles a backlog of
4,341 planes.  Playing Catch-Up  “I don’t have many expectations because we’re at or near a
peak in terms of orders,” Hamilton said. “Look at the backlog
of Boeing and Airbus. They have more than they can handle right
now.”  With 451 orders, the MAX is playing catch-up to the Neo,
which has amassed 1,425 orders since its unveiling in December
2010. Boeing disclosed its intent to build the MAX in July, as
the company rushed to share a 460-plane order with  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
 American Airlines .  “The 737 MAX was our move, our decision to position
ourselves to split the future single-aisle aircraft” market,
 Nicole Piasecki , Boeing vice president of business development,
said last month in a presentation to reporters.  Boeing has said it expects orders of 1,000 planes this
year, which would mark the first time it outsells Airbus since
2008. Airbus has forecast orders of 650 planes.  Higher Orders  “The expectation clearly is that Boeing is going to see
higher orders relative to Airbus this year with the 737 MAX,”
said Chris Wolters, a managing director at Epoch Investment
Partners in New York, which owns Boeing shares.  Order announcements at the show typically cap months of
talks. The question in Farnborough will be how many buyers
consummate those deals amid a slowing global economy.  “Clearly the show is going to be a lot more challenging
than it would have been under a healthier macro-economic
condition,” Oppenheimer’s Reiner said. “When all of a sudden
you begin to think that global growth is going to be a percent
or two lower over a multiple-year period, you suddenly need a
lot fewer planes several years out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  