-- Bovespa Climbs for Fourth Day as OGX, Usiminas Lead Gains
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-07-04T20:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/bovespa-futures-fall-as-commodities-drop-on-weak-economic-data.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index advanced for a
fourth day as raw-materials producers gained amid speculation
central bankers in China and Europe will ease monetary policy,
helping shore up global growth.  Steelmakers  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  and Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA helped lead gains on the benchmark
index. Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA, the Brazilian unit of  AES
Corp. (AES) , rebounded after plunging 10 percent yesterday.  The Bovespa climbed 0.5 percent to 56,076.82 at the close
in Sao Paulo. Forty-three stocks gained on the gauge while 17
declined. The real weakened 0.6 percent to 2.0279 per  U.S.
dollar .  The  European Central Bank  will cut  interest rates  tomorrow,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. In  China , a
state-run newspaper said yesterday policy makers may lower
lenders’ reserve requirements three more times this year.  “Investors are waiting for more stimulus measures in
Europe, and maybe China, and that’s boosting stocks,” Joao Pedro Brugger, a portfolio manager at Leme Investimentos in
Florianopolis,  Brazil , said in a phone interview. “It may give
some short-term relief to the markets, but uncertainties will
remain. There were tons of stimulus in the past few years, which
didn’t avoid the slowdown we’re seeing now.”  Usiminas, OGX  Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas is known, advanced 3.2
percent to 6.99 reais, the highest in two weeks. CSN rose 3.1
percent to 12.44 reais.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the  oil company 
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , climbed 3 percent to
6.28 reais. OGX plunged 41 percent last week, the biggest
selloff on record, after saying it plans to stabilize production
at each of its first two wells at the Tubarao Azul field in the
Campos Basin at 5,000 barrels a day, down from a previous plan
to pump as much as 20,000 barrels daily at each well.  Eletropaulo gained 0.3 percent to 23.02 reais after earlier
rising as much as 3.4 percent. The stock plunged yesterday after
Brazil’s power regulator Aneel cut the amount the utility can
charge customers by 9.3 percent.  The Bovespa earlier  dropped  0.5 percent after reports
showed services and manufacturing output shrank in June for a
fifth month in the euro area and services unexpectedly
contracted in  Germany , adding to signs of an economic slump in
the second quarter.  “The numbers that came out in  Europe  show things were bad
in the second quarter, but the outlook for the region is a bit
more positive as policy makers seem to be coordinating their
actions a little better to tackle the crisis,” Marcio Cardoso,
a partner at brokerage Titulo Corretora de Valores, said by
phone from Sao Paulo. “The Bovespa may be poised for a mild
recovery.”  Cosan Gains  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio  rose 1.2 percent to 31.20
reais. The renewable energy and infrastructure company said in a
regulatory filing yesterday it concluded the acquisition of
Comma Oil & Chemicals Ltd. from Exxon Mobil Corp. as part of its
strategy to enter the European market for automotive lubricants.  The Bovespa has dropped 18 percent since this year’s high
on March 13 as the debt crisis in Europe worsened and growth in
Brazil faltered. The index trades at 10 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for the next four quarters, compared with 10.2 times
for MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 2.99 billion reais ($1.5 billion) in
stocks in  Sao Paulo , data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with a daily average of 7.37 billion reais this year
through July 3, according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  