-- Brazil’s Weg Profit Margin Rebounds on Payroll Tax Cut
-- B y   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f
-- 2012-07-04T17:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/brazil-s-weg-profit-margin-rebounds-on-payroll-tax-cut.html
Weg SA (WEGE3) ,  Brazil ’s biggest maker of
industrial machinery and power equipment by market value, says a
payroll tax cut will ease pressure on rising labor costs,
helping it to reverse a three-year drop in profit margins.  Brazil is reducing payroll taxes for manufacturers by 20
percent this month as part of a stimulus effort. Weg, which is
valued at about $5.9 billion, posted a drop in earnings before
interest, depreciation and amortization as a percentage of sales
to 16 percent in 2011 from 23 percent in 2008.  Marcopolo SA (POMO4) , the
second-biggest industrial company, boosted margins to 14 percent
from 9.8 percent.  “Even with a delay, government measures are on the right
track not only for Weg but for the industry as a whole,” Chief
Financial Officer Laurence Beltrao Gomes said in a telephone
interview from Jaragua do Sul, Brazil, where Weg is based.  Weg’s falling margins underscore how Brazilian companies
are being hurt by labor costs that Morgan Stanley says are
accelerating at the fastest pace relative to benchmark inflation
in a decade. Weg rose 2.2 percent this year in Sao Paulo trading
before today, compared with a 6.6 percent gain for the Bloomberg
Americas Machinery Diversified Index. Marcopolo surged 32
percent in the period, while Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index
fell 1.7 percent.  The company’s stock fell 10 centavos, or 0.5 percent, to
19.10 reais as of 2:10 p.m. in Sao Paulo trading.  65 Billion Reais  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  announced the cuts
in payroll taxes in April as part of a stimulus package of at
least 65 billion reais ($33 billion) to make local companies
more competitive. Last week, the government said it would
increase purchases of buses, tractors, trucks and other
equipment by 6.6 billion reais by year’s end and cut the long-
term reference rate for loans from the state development bank to
a record low of 5.5 percent from 6 percent.  “Weg is one of the industrial companies that benefits from
the government’s incentive package” as it has been affected by
higher costs and price drops, said Mario Bernardes Junior, an
analyst at  Banco do Brasil SA , who has an equivalent to a buy
rating on the stock. “The main difficulty in the industry is
how to pass on the real increase in wages and costs to the
consumer at the risk of losing competitiveness,” he said by
telephone from  Sao Paulo  on June 25.  Inflation slowed to 4.99 percent in the 12 months through
May from 7.31 percent in September, while services inflation
decelerated to 7.59 percent from 8.54 percent in September,
according to the central bank’s inflation report on June 28.  Labor Costs  “The differential between labor costs, or services
inflation, and goods has never been this big,” Arthur Carvalho,
Morgan Stanley’s Brazil chief economist, said in an interview
June 25. “It’s likely taking place at the expense of firms’
margins.”  Weg expects sales to grow about 18 percent this year, the
same rate as in 2011, Gomes said. Revenue from its engines and
industrial parts business is doing well and expanded 8 percent
in the first quarter from a year ago, he said. Demand for energy
generation, transmission and distribution equipment has been
falling, presenting a challenge for Weg, he said.  Brazilian industrial  output  fell in May for a third
straight month, according to a government report yesterday.
Production is down 3.4 percent this year.  Weg is benefiting as a weaker Brazilian real makes imports
more expensive and exports more competitive, Gomes said.
Brazil’s real has rallied 23 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in
the past 12 months, the best performance of the 16 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Industry payrolls had a real increase of 3.4 percent in the
three months through April, according to the central bank.  Growth Forecasts  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s efforts to shield Brazil from
the global slowdown are failing. The central bank cut its
forecast for economic expansion this year to 2.5 percent from
3.5 percent, while economists in a central bank survey published
July 2 lowered their estimates for an eighth straight week to
2.05 percent.  “The measures help some companies, but they are not enough
to change the industry outlook,” Carvalho said.  The government is “creating palliative measures that don’t
address the real issue,”  Pedro Galdi , chief strategist at Sao
Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora, said in a June 28 telephone
interview. “What needs to be done is invest in infrastructure,
cut spending on government administration and promote reforms.”  Other measures that would help include a tax break on
industry investments and simplifying the country’s “extremely
complex” tax structure, Gomes said.  “The measures need some time to mature and are
important,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  