-- Brazil Said to Plan Further Half-Point Rate Reductions
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-07-04T17:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/brazil-said-to-plan-further-half-point-rate-reductions.html
Brazil  plans to maintain the pace of
interest rate reductions at half-point intervals as the economy
recovers more slowly than expected and  Europe ’s debt crisis
remains a concern, a government official familiar with the
bank’s deliberations said.  While the situation in Europe has stabilized in recent
days, it and the U.S.’s fiscal situation are hurting the
confidence of investors and consumers in Brazil, said the
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he’s not
authorized to discuss monetary policy. Brazilian industrial
output fell for a  third straight month  in May, a report showed
yesterday.  Brazil’s central bank, which next decides rates on July 11,
cut its benchmark Selic rate to a record low 8.5 percent in May.
It was the fifth time in seven meetings that the central bank
reduced borrowing costs by 50 basis points. Policy makers said
in a quarterly inflation report last week that any future
monetary easing would be carried out with “parsimony,”
repeating language used in previous statements that analysts
said signals rate reductions of a half point.  The yield on interest rate future contracts maturing in
January 2014 rose four basis points to 7.86 percent at 2:44 p.m.
local time. The real extended declines, falling as much as 0.9
percent to 2.0345 reais per dollar.  Reserve Requirements  Traders are betting that the bank will lower the Selic
another 50 basis points as its meeting next week, and at least
25 basis points in August, according to Bloomberg estimates
based on interest-rate futures contracts.  The central bank could resume dollar purchases in the
foreign exchange market and lower banks’ reserve requirements to
ensure liquidity if needed, the official said.  Brazil’s real gained 2.12 percent since June 27, after
logging the biggest losses against the  U.S. dollar  among major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg in the previous three months.  Earlier today, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said that the
government may keep taking measure to maintain a weak real.  The world’s sixth-largest  economy  grew slower than the
government expected in the first quarter and is facing a
difficult moment though growth will accelerate in the second
half of the year, the official said.  The central bank in an e-mail declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  