-- Britain’s Hidden Hunger Puts Spotlight on Cameron Budget Cuts
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/britain-s-hidden-hunger-puts-spotlight-on-cameron-budget-cuts.html
When the British economy fell back
into a recession at the end of last year,  Ryan Hall , 24, lost
his job, his home and the means to feed his family.  His employer, a retail company, first reduced his hours and
then  eliminated his job  altogether. No longer able to pay the
rent, he was forced to seek emergency shelter at the home of a
friend. He relied on food charities to help feed his wife and
four-year-old son.  “We had nowhere to go, no money, things were really,
really hard,” said the resident of Bradford in northern
 England . “I was looking for jobs, but there was nothing out
there. We were barely surviving.”  The plight of Hall and tens of thousands of other Britons
living on the breadline is fueling the debate over Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s unprecedented austerity program as the
economy struggles to emerge from its  second recession  since
2009. His Conservative-led government plans to all but erase
Britain’s budget deficit by 2017 with spending cuts and tax
increases that exceed those planned by former Labour Chancellor
of the Exchequer Alistair Darling by more than 50 percent.  Cameron’s assertion that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis is
largely to blame for the economic malaise has been called into
question after the U.K. contracted for a second straight quarter
between January and March, while the euro region escaped
recession. The Labour opposition, led by  Ed Miliband , says the
government now must spur the economy by scaling back its
deficit-cutting program and spending more.  The squeeze on households from unemployment, rising food
prices and welfare reductions has led to a “massive increase”
in families struggling to cope, according to Chris Mould,
executive chairman of the  Trussell Trust , which runs 220 food
banks across the U.K.  ‘Hidden Hunger’  Virtually unheard of during the decade-long economic boom
that ended in 2007, food banks are opening at the rate of two a
week. Mould said the number of people receiving emergency
grocery parcels doubled to almost 130,000 in the 12 months ended
in April -- about 33 percent of them as a result of benefit
reassessments -- and the figure may reach 500,000 by 2016. Those
referred for food aid, usually by doctors or social workers, are
typically not destitute, rather people on low wages or on
welfare.  “There is a lot of hidden hunger in Britain,” Mould said.
“These are people who are working and trying their best to make
ends meet. They are often working a concoction of part-time
jobs, with zero-duration contracts. Their benefit support is
being reduced and that will get significantly worse.”  Deficit-Cutting Plans  A debate over the pace at which the deficit should be cut
has raged since the Conservative-led government took office in
the aftermath of the global financial crisis. The shortfall is
more than 8 percent of gross domestic product, after reaching 11
percent, the highest in British peacetime history, before the
2010 election.  Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  have
staked their reputations on eliminating the bulk of the deficit
with 126 billion pounds ($196 billion) of spending cuts and 29
billion pounds of tax increases. They say their plan is
supporting the economy by satisfying credit-rating companies and
holding down borrowing costs at a time when debt-burdened
European governments such as  Spain  are paying near-record rates.  “We are pursuing fiscal consolidation at a pace that is
right for the British economy, which is why  interest rates  are
as low as they are,” Cameron told Parliament on June 25.  Job Cuts  Recent data have given ammunition to those who oppose the
pace of austerity, which will see more than 700,000 public-
sector jobs axed and at least 18 billion pounds squeezed from
welfare spending in the deepest budget cuts since World War II.
Labour had pledged to cut the deficit to 4 percent of GDP by
2015, based on plans drawn up by Darling and then Prime Minister
 Gordon Brown .  While  Germany  helped the euro region avoid another economic
contraction in the first quarter, output in the U.K. shrank 0.3
percent following a 0.4 percent drop in the three previous
months. The government may find it hard to resist pressure for a
fiscal stimulus if the crisis in Europe worsens, said  Neil MacKinnon , global macro strategist at VTB Capital in  London  and
a former U.K. Treasury official.  “The economic situation is getting worse rather than
better and the government may no longer have the luxury of
having a choice,” he said. “An escalation in the crisis, which
seems imminent, should concentrate the minds of policy makers
and warrant short-term policy measures which should include tax
cuts.”  Continental Effect  Even with a fiscal stimulus equal to 1 percent of GDP, a 4
percent economic contraction in the euro region -- the biggest
market for British goods -- would see the U.K. economy shrink by
about 2 percent, Bank of America Corp. economist Nick Bate wrote
in a May 24 report to clients.  “The most important thing is what happens in Europe,”
said  Stewart Robertson , chief European economist at Aviva
Investors in London, which manages more than $410 billion.
“Whether we nibble away at our deficit is secondary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  