-- HTC Phones Don’t Infringe Apple Patents, U.K. Judge Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-07-04T17:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/htc-mobile-phones-don-t-infringe-apple-patents-u-k-judge-says.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-largest
smartphone maker, won a London court ruling against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
over patents for touchscreen technology used for its mobile
devices, including Apple’s slide-to-unlock feature.  HTC’s devices don’t infringe four Apple patents for the
technology and three of those patents are invalid, Judge
 Christopher Floyd  said yesterday.  The U.K. court judgment “marks a considerable defeat for
Apple in the smartphone patent wars,” said Peter Bell, an
attorney at Stevens & Bolton LLP, who isn’t involved in the
case. “Two of Apple’s prize patents have been knocked out in
the U.K.”  Apple is fighting patent lawsuits on four continents
against rivals including HTC and South Korea-based  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  as it competes for dominance of the $219 billion
global smartphone market. The firms have accused each other of
copying designs and technology used in mobile devices.  “Competition is healthy, but competitors should create
their own original technology, not steal ours,” Cupertino,
California-based Apple said in an e-mailed statement, without
commenting specifically on yesterday’s decision.  While HTC was pleased with the ruling, “we remain
disappointed that Apple continues to favor competition in the
courtroom over competition in the marketplace,” Andrea Sommer,
a spokeswoman for the Taoyuan City, Taiwan-based company said.  Photographs, Alphabets  In addition to the slide-to-unlock feature, yesterday’s
ruling covered Apple’s patents on tools used to scroll through
photographs and change alphabets, and software allowing users to
touch the screen in two spots simultaneously.  While the court ruled that Apple’s photo-management patent
is valid, Floyd found that HTC didn’t infringe it.  The same four patents are being contested by Apple and HTC
in German lawsuits, scheduled to be heard later this year.  In the U.S., Apple tried to stop HTC from importing its
newest phones, saying they violate a patent order issued in
December. The U.S. International Trade Commission decided this
week that HTC could continue to import the devices while it
investigated claims a system for detecting telephone numbers in
e-mails was copied.  Before his death, Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  waged war on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, used by HTC, Samsung and
other rivals in their phones. He told his authorized biographer
he would spend every penny in the company’s coffers “to destroy
Android” because it was a stolen product.  The case is: HTC Europe Co. v Apple Inc.,  High Court  of
Justice,  Chancery Division , HC11C02826  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  