-- Cameron Urges Barclays Against ‘Vast Pay-Off’ for Diamond
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-07-04T12:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/cameron-urges-barclays-against-vast-pay-off-for-diamond.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and other banks shouldn’t give golden
parachutes to employees such as Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  who leave their jobs as a result of the scandal over
rigging  interest rates .  “It would be completely wrong if people leaving under
these circumstances were given some vast pay-off,” Cameron told
lawmakers during his weekly questions session in London today.
“It would be completely inexplicable to the public. I hope that
won’t happen.”  Diamond, 60, resigned yesterday under pressure from policy
makers and investors after the bank was fined a record 290
million pounds ($453 million) last week for rigging the London
interbank offered rate as well as Euribor, its equivalent in
euros, starting as early as 2005.  While Barclays says it’s yet to set Diamond’s severance
package, he may be entitled to a payoff of between 2 million
pounds and 21 million pounds, according to Manifest Information
Services Ltd., a proxy voting firm that advises clients managing
3 trillion pounds of assets.  ‘Illegal Activity’  He has received at least 120 million pounds in salary,
bonuses and share awards since joining the board of Barclays in
2005, Manifest said. That excludes the 26.8 million pounds he
made from selling shares in  Barclays Global Investors  in 2009.  Cameron had earlier said bankers engaged in “spivvy and
probably illegal activity” should be punished. A “spiv” is
British slang for a hustler.  “People want to know the crime in our banks will be
punished like crime in our streets,” he said, adding it was
“outrageous” that customers might have paid more as a result
of interest-rate manipulation.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said today there would be
concern if Diamond received a large severance package.  “I don’t think he’s going to be short of a bob or two,”
Clegg said on Sky News television. “I think many people will be
dismayed that he might be paid handsomely, he’ll get handsome
rewards for having presided over serious wrongdoing.”  Diamond will face questions from lawmakers at a Treasury
Select Committee hearing today on how the bank failed to prevent
the abuse of a benchmark used to set interest payments on $500
trillion of securities from mortgages to swaps.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  