-- Can the U.S. Economy Be Sustained for Another 236 Years?
-- B y   E r i c   R o s t o n
-- 2012-07-04T16:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/can-the-u-s-economy-be-sustained-for-another-236-years-.html
“ Perhaps the sentiments contained in the following pages, are not yet
sufficiently fashionable to procure them general favour ,” Thomas Paine,
 Common Sense , 1776 The original Declaration of Independence, badly faded from poor 19th-century
preservation techniques, is on permanent display in the Rotunda for the Charters
of Freedom, at the  National Archives  in Washington, D.C. Each passing Fourth of
July provides evidence that this document is better preserved than the land
whose inhabitants it grants freedom and rights. As the United States turns 236, relatively few people dwell on the
possibility that within another 236 years, North America may cease to be a place
capable of sustaining 300 million people in comfort, stability and peace. That's because the land and water of the United States, and other nations,
are increasingly subject to conditions absent in 1776. In fact, they’ve been
largely absent from the 12,000-year epoch in which humans blossomed across the
globe. The question on this Fourth of July, with the nation's capital recovering
from an unprecedented wind and lightning storm, an unprecedented heat wave, and
mass electrical outages, is this: How can scrappy, upbeat Americans look forward
to a future as bright as the past unless we grapple with our own “zone of
extraordinary opportunity or misery,” a phrase that appears in Royal Dutch
Shell’s 2011 report  Signals and Signposts ? It’s time for a second set
of Founding Fathers to step forward, or a first set of Founding Mothers. Anyone .  Who .  Wishes .  To .  Can .  Read .  Endlessly .  From .  The .  Interdisciplinary .
 Foundation .  Of .  Climate .  Science . What scientists cannot give the public is
common sense. It's up to elected, private-sector, religious and community
leaders to help with that. They have generally chosen not to. President Obama
last week visited Colorado, charred by the worst wildfire in its history,
without mentioning the background contributions of climate change to its
rage. The atmosphere, henceforth and anon, is a joint venture between nature and
human industry. “All weather events are affected by climate change because the
environment in which they occur is warmer and moister than it used to be,”  Kevin
Trenberth  of the  National Center for Atmospheric Research  wrote earlier this
year. It’s no longer accurate to call extreme meteorological events natural
disasters because our atmosphere is no longer entirely natural. We need daily reminders of this. Deutsche Bank Climate Change Advisors raised
in midtown Manhattan in 2009 the climate-change equivalent of the famous
 National Debt Clock : A three-story-tall running estimate of the metric tons of
greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. The so-called  Carbon Counter  was developed
in conjunction with scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and
the George Institute of Technology, and still lives at the advisory’s website,
where it publishes its  investment research . Unfortunately, the group’s three-
year contract recently ended and the counter billboard came down in June. The
company would not disclose the cost of running it. There are other  numbers . And there are other companies with large advertising
budgets who understand the risks associated with global climate change. Other
companies that should consider putting up a billboard (literally or
metaphorically) are  leaders  in sustainability, or even those that belonged to
the  U.S. Climate Action Partnership  (U.S. CAP), which advocated national climate
policy in 2009:  The AES Corp. ,  Alcoa Inc. ,  Alstom SA ,  Boston Scientific
Corporation ,  Chrysler Group LLC ,  The Dow Chemical Corporation ,  Duke Energy
Corp. ,  DuPont Co. ,  Excelon Corp. ,  General Electric Co. ,  Honeywell International
Inc. ,  Johnson & Johnson ,  NextEra Energy Inc. ,  NRG Energy Inc. ,  PepsiCo Inc. ,
 PG&E Corporation ,  PNM Resources Inc. ,  Rio Tinto Plc ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,
 Siemens Corporation AG  and  Weyerhaeuser Co. This isn’t an endorsement of the U.S. CAP members’ old proposals; it’s
encouragement for them to spend several million dollars a year in advertising
money on clearly branded electronic signs all over the United States that
tastefully suggest every day that our way of life is creating self-destructive
long-term risks for our way of life. As sustainable companies reconfigure their business plans for a populous,
overheating world -- and place their carbon billboards from sea to shining sea -
- they might as well also resuscitate national policy debate. There is a mature
body of policy to fight climate change. It is being tested in California, New
England, Europe, Australia, South Korea and elsewhere. Its purpose is twofold:
To gradually phase out the suicidal emissions of heat-trapping gases; and in the
immediate term to protect workers, citizens and shareholders in places and
industries that must change if the U.S. is to provide global leadership. The Fourth of July is a good day to try and reconcile America’s epic
beginning with its long-term future. Do elected, civic and private leaders
believe that the U.S. economy as currently configured is sustainable another 236
years into the future? If not, what kind of economy might be? Critics who would say that the nation can’t afford to reduce carbon-dioxide
emissions and support clean industry are pushing future Americans into a zone of
extraordinary misery. The word “sustainability” is thrown around a lot these
days, but you almost never hear about the alternative, best summarized by an old
quip from Herb Stein, the former advisor to Presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald
Ford: “If something cannot go on forever, it will stop.” Visit   www.bloomberg.com/sustainability 
 for the latest from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and
global business.