-- Canada Competition Bureau Approves Maple Takeover of TMX
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-07-04T22:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/canada-competition-bureau-won-t-challenge-maple-buy-of-tmx.html
Canada ’s Competition Bureau approved
the C$3.73 billion ($3.68 billion) takeover of  TMX Group Inc. (X)  by
a group of banks and pensions funds, sending shares of the
Toronto Stock Exchange owner to its highest level in more than
four years.  The Competition Bureau’s decision came after Ontario’s
securities regulator approved the plan by Maple Group
Acquisition Corp. and TMX to operate as exchanges and a clearing
house.  Quebec ’s regulator, Autorité des Marchés Financiers,
later followed with approval of Maple’s takeover of the Canadian
Depository for Securities Ltd. clearing house.  TMX  rose  3.3 percent to C$48.41 at 4 p.m. trading in
Toronto, the highest since February 2008 and edging closer to
Maple’s C$50-a-share offer.  The transaction still requires approvals from provincial
regulators in British Columbia and  Alberta .  “The prospects are excellent now,”  Luc Bertrand , Maple
chief executive officer, said in a telephone interview. “We’ve
done some very good progress and we’ll get there.”  Maple, whose members include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan  and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , proposes to
acquire 70 percent to 80 percent of TMX shares for C$50 a share
in a tender offer that expires July 31. The group ultimately
intends to buy 100 percent of TMX and integrate it with CDS and
Alpha Group, a bank-owned exchange operator that competes with
TMX.  No Challenge  “In light of the Ontario Securities Commission’s
recognition orders as finalized today, the Competition Bureau
does not, at this time, intend to make an application to the
Competition Tribunal to challenge the proposed transactions,”
the federal department said on its  website .  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP) , Canada’s second-biggest independent
brokerage, withdrew from Maple’s bid to satisfy ownership
conditions set by the OSC and Quebec’s Autorité des Marchés
Financiers, Maple and TMX Group Inc. said. Toronto-based GMP
owned less than 1 percent of Maple.  The regulators said Maple’s board should include no more
than 50 percent representation from the original Maple Group.
 Kevin Sullivan , GMP deputy chairman, will serve as a nominee to
Maple’s board from the “independent investment dealer
community,” Maple and TMX said.  “This isn’t necessarily a good decision by the Competition
Bureau to let the banks own the exchange,” Cameron Webster, who
helps manage C$200 million at Calgary-based Sandstone Asset
Management Inc., said in a telephone interview. “It’s just
suasion -- the more assets you own, the more influence you tend
to have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  