-- CPI-Linked Yields Rise on Price Drop Bets: Santiago Mover
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-07-04T20:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/chile-peso-falls-from-seven-week-high-as-copper-declines.html
Chilean inflation-linked swap and
bond yields rose today as traders in the forwards market started
betting prices fell last month by the most since 2009.  The  median forecast  of 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey
is that consumer prices rose 0.1 percent in June while forwards
traders are projecting a 0.14 percent drop. The National
Statistics Institute is due to publish June inflation data on
July 6.  “There has been a correction in inflation with implicit
inflation for now and the next two months very low,” Sebastian
Ide, head of rates trading at Banco de  Chile  in Santiago, said
in a phone interview. “That correction transfers across the
curve.”  The two-year breakeven inflation rate in the swaps market
fell 13 basis points today to 2.45 percent. The one-year rate
dropped eight basis points to 2.39 percent.  The two-year swap rate fell four basis points to 4.59
percent even as the inflation-linked rate increased seven basis
points to 2.07 percent.  The central bank today sold $63.9 million of 10-year
inflation-linked bonds at a yield of 2.54 percent, the highest
at auction since May 26. The yield on 10-year inflation-linked
bonds has climbed from 2.43 percent on June 28.  The bank also sold $43.9 million of 10-year fixed-rate
bonds at a yield of 5.35 percent. Pension funds and insurers
bought 85 percent of the fixed-rate bonds and 54 percent of the
inflation-linked bonds.  Chile’s peso slid after closing yesterday at a seven-week
high as copper, the country’s main export, fell on signs
 Europe ’s economy is slowing.  The peso depreciated 0.4 percent to 496.85 per  U.S. dollar .
The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American Currency Index  fell  0.3
percent.  Weakening Euro  The euro, which peso traders use as a guide for the
relative strength of the dollar, fell before a European Central
Bank meeting tomorrow at which the bank may cut its main
 interest rate  to a record low. Copper dropped as much as 1
percent in  New York  after data showed  Germany ’s service
industries unexpectedly contracted last month.  “Commodities fell today, the euro is weakening ahead of
the meeting tomorrow and markets in general are slightly more
negative,” said Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile
Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago. “The  European Central Bank 
is probably going to cut rates tomorrow, which will weaken the
euro and may drag somewhat on the peso. We are certainly not
interested in selling dollars at this level.”  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
trimmed their short peso position to $9.8 billion on June 29
from $10.2 billion a day earlier, according to data published
today by the central bank. Local investors, led by pension funds
and excluding banks and brokers, had a $17.4 billion long peso
position, the highest in a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  