-- China Needs to Ease One-Child Policy, State Researchers Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-04T02:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/china-needs-to-ease-one-child-policy-state-researchers-say.html
Chinese government researchers called
on the nation to ease its one-child policy as soon as possible
to cope with an aging population and  labor  shortage.  One option is allowing all people to have a second child,
three researchers including Yu Dong from the State Council’s
Development Research Center wrote in an article in yesterday’s
 China  Economic Times, a newspaper affiliated with the center.
“The longer time we take to adjust the policy, the more
vulnerable we become,” the piece said.  The commentary adds to debate on the policy, adopted in the
late 1970s, during the deepest economic  slowdown  since the
global financial crisis and ahead of a once-in-a-decade power
handover. Last month, the alleged forced abortion of a seven-
month-old fetus sparked a public outcry and resulted in the
suspension of three officials in a western city.  “It is suggested that the birth control policy be adjusted
as soon as possible” against the backdrop of a vanishing
demographic dividend, accelerating aging and a potential future
labor shortage that are set to become major challenges, the
researchers wrote. The recommendation came in a paragraph within
a broader piece about social policies.  Working-age people accounted for 74.4 percent of the
population in 2011, down from 74.5 percent in the previous year,
the first decline since 2002, according to the  National Bureau
of Statistics . People age 60 and older were 13.3 percent of the
population in 2010, 2.9 percentage points higher than in 2000,
according to the latest census results released last year.  Fertility Rate  China’s fertility rate has already been below the
replacement level of 2.1, the researchers wrote. The situation
will worsen as the nation pushes ahead with urbanization and
industrialization and the education level rises, they said.  Increasing the fertility rate to 2.3 children per woman,
from about 1.6, would cut the decline in the workforce in half
by 2050 to 8.8 percent, from 17.3 percent, according to the
 United Nations .  The country allows exceptions to the one-child policy
including permitting rural families to have a second child if
the first is a girl. Couples in some regions are allowed a
second child if both parents are single children. Minority
ethnic groups are excluded from the restriction. Those who can
afford to can have a second or third baby by paying a fine.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Scott Lanman, Lily Nonomiya  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  