-- China Money Rate Drops Most in Eight Weeks as PBOC Injects Funds
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-07-04T08:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/china-money-rate-drops-most-in-eight-weeks-as-pboc-injects-funds.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell by the most in eight weeks as the central bank’s decision
to conduct reverse-repurchase operations quenched banks’ thirst
for money ahead of tomorrow’s reserve-requirement deadline.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for a sale of
seven- and 14-day reverse repos tomorrow, according to a trader
at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. The
monetary authority offered 105 billion  yuan  ($16.5 billion) of
14-day reverse repos at a yield of 4.1 percent and 38 billion
yuan of seven-day contracts at 3.95 percent yesterday, according
to a statement on its website.  “Reverse repos can only be a short-term solution to
address the liquidity tightness,”  Frances Cheung , a Credit
Agricole CIB strategist in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note today.
“We believe that further reserve-requirement cuts are needed to
support the economy via boosting bank lending.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, slid 31 basis points, the
most since May 9, to 3.87 percent in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  China’s central bank has lowered lenders’ reserve-
requirement ratios three times since November, cutting them by
50 basis points each time. It may reduce three more times in
2012, by 50 basis points each time, Shanghai Securities News
reported on its website, citing a banking sector development
report released by the China Banking Association today.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.57 percent in Shanghai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on three-year  government bonds 
was little changed at 2.51 percent, according to the Interbank
Funding Centre.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 