-- Yankees Defeat Rays; Phillies’ Lee Earns First Win as Mets Lose
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/cliff-lee-earns-first-win-of-season-as-phillies-beat-mets-9-2.html
The New York Yankees ended a run of
nine losses on the road against the Tampa Bay Rays, while  Cliff Lee  got his first win in 10 months as the Philadelphia Phillies
defeated the New York Mets 9-2.  Robinson Cano’s two-run single in the eighth inning gave
the Yankees a 4-3 win yesterday. It was New York’s first win at
Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida, since July 20.  The Yankees, who lead the American League East, improved to
49-32 with their first win in three Major League Baseball games,
while Tampa Bay dropped to 43-39. New York reliever  Boone Logan 
(3-0) got the win, while Rafael Soriano pitched his 19th save of
the year. Kyle Farnsworth (0-1) gave up three runs in 1/3 of an
inning to take the loss.  The Rays took the lead in the fourth inning on Sean Rodriguez’s run-scoring single.  Mark Teixeira  tied it with a
solo home run in the seventh before a two-run homer by Carlos Pena made it 3-1 to the home team.  Eric Chavez  scored when  Alex Rodriguez  walked in the eighth
before Cano sealed the win.  At Citi Field in New York yesterday, Lee (1-5) allowed
seven hits, struck out nine and retired the final nine Mets he
faced for his first win since Sept. 26.  Chase Utley, Carlos Ruiz and Ty Wigginton hit home runs as
the Phillies scored three runs each in the seventh, eighth and
ninth innings to win for the first time in seven games. Mets
starter Chris Young (2-2) allowed three runs in seven innings to
take the loss.  The Mets (44-38) are second in the National League’s
Eastern Division, 4 1/2 games behind the Washington Nationals.
Washington beat the San Francisco Giants 9-4 today behind home
runs from Ryan Zimmerman, Michael Morse, Rick Ankiel and
Jhonatan Solano.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  