-- Copper Drops From Seven-Week High on Signs of Slowing Economies
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-07-04T15:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/copper-drops-from-seven-week-high-on-signs-of-slowing-economies.html
Copper fell from a seven-week high in
 London  as signs economies are slowing worldwide fed concern that
demand may weaken.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted for
a fifth month in June, an index from Markit Economics showed
today. Retail sales in Europe slid from a year earlier in May,
according to European Union statistics. The  European Central
Bank  may lower its benchmark  interest rate  to a record 0.75
percent tomorrow, economists surveyed by Bloomberg said.  “The market has been positioned very bearishly,”  Gayle Berry , an analyst at Barclays Plc in London, said by phone. “We
are not seeing any significant change in the short-term picture.
The market is already expecting a cut tomorrow.”  Copper for three-month delivery declined 1.3 percent to
$7,714 a metric ton by 4:03 p.m. on the London Metal Exchange.
Prices yesterday touched $7,823, the highest level since May 15.
Copper for September delivery fell 0.9 percent to $3.507 a pound
on the Comex in New York, where floor trading is closed today
for the Independence Day holiday.  Price gains spurred sales of copper scrap, Herwig Schmidt,
head of sales at Triland Metals Ltd. in London, said by phone.  A composite index based on a survey of euro-area  purchasing
managers  came in at 46.4 last month, Markit said. Readings below
50 indicate contraction.  A manufacturing index for China released this week by
Markit and HSBC Holdings Plc reached a seven-month low, and a
similar U.S. gauge from the  Institute for Supply Management 
showed the first contraction since 2009. The nations are the
world’s two biggest consumers of copper.  Inventories of the metal monitored by the LME, down 32
percent this year, fell 0.6 percent to 253,525 tons, daily
exchange figures showed.  Zinc for three-month delivery on the LME dropped 0.9
percent to $1,889.75 a ton. Orders to withdraw the metal from
warehouses  jumped  32 percent to 209,175 tons, the highest level
since at least October 1997. The surge may stem from
“warehousing-type activity,”  Leon Westgate , an analyst at
Standard Bank Plc in London, said in a report.  Aluminum, lead, nickel and tin fell in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  