-- Cove Sparks Top Bids for Gas Explorer in Africa: Real M&A
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2012-07-05T17:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/cove-sparks-top-bids-for-gas-explorer-in-africa-real-m-a.html
Traders are more convinced than ever
that a bidding war for  Cove Energy Plc (COV)  will lead to the richest
takeover premium on record for an oil and natural-gas explorer.  The owner of a stake in gas fields off  Mozambique  lured a
sweetened offer of 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9 billion) from PTT
Exploration & Production Pcl in May that topped prior bids from
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)  Shares of Cove rose to a record 272 pence
today, 13 percent above PTTEP’s proposal, indicating traders who
profit from acquisitions anticipate the competition will
escalate. It now trades higher above the offer price than any
other pending acquisition in western Europe of at least $500
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A deal at the current stock level would be 91 percent above
Cove’s 20-day average before Shell’s first offer in February,
making it the steepest premium for a takeover of an oil and gas
explorer greater than $1 billion, the data show. While Cove has
yet to generate revenue, the London-based company owns an 8.5
percent stake in Mozambique’s Rovuma Area 1, where recoverable
natural gas amounting to more than six times the U.K.’s existing
reserves has been discovered. Merrion Capital Group estimates
that increasing gas finds will entice Shell and Thailand’s
state-controlled  PTTEP (PTTEP)  to push bids to 290 pence a share.  “It is a first-of-its-kind deal, in a country that is the
first of its kind, in a situation with two people with very deep
pockets,” Laurie Pinto, chief executive officer of event-driven
research firm North Square Blue Oak Ltd. in  London , said in a
telephone interview. “People are interpreting that Shell will
return, and that is why it is trading so far above. At this
level though, they are interpreting that as a double move: if
Shell comes back, PTT comes back again.”  Sale Process  Billy Clegg, a spokesman for Cove, declined to comment on
whether the company expects higher offers.  Claire Scotter, a London-based spokeswoman for The Hague-
based Shell, declined to comment. Tevin Vongvanich, chief
executive officer of Bangkok-based PTTEP, didn’t answer a call
to his mobile phone or immediately respond to a text message
left after regular office hours.  PTT Pcl (PTT) , the state-owned energy
company, is the parent company of PTTEP.  Since Cove formally put itself up for sale on January 5
when the shares were trading at 112.5 pence, the stock has
climbed  142 percent  as Shell’s 195-pence-a-share bid in February
was topped by PTTEP two days later. Each company has since
submitted at least one additional counterbid and both have
secured approval from the Mozambique government.  PTTEP’s latest offer of 240 pence a share -- a 69 percent
premium to Cove’s 20-day trading average before any bid was
disclosed -- tops Shell’s current bid of 220 pence.  Bidding War  PTTEP, which had only secured 0.25 percent of the stock
outstanding as of June 22, said its tender offer will end July
6. After only 3.46 percent of investors had tendered their
shares to Shell as of June 27, Shell’s latest extension expires
July 11.  If Shell is “really of the view that this was a bidding
war and it wasn’t going to work for them and they had a plan B,
then they would have just straight walked away,” Stuart Joyner,
head of oil and gas analysis at Investec Securities Ltd. in
London, said in a phone interview. “There is still a quite
strong possibility that Shell will come back. PTT has already
said they would likely respond if that happens.”  After Cove  shares  closed at a record 272 pence yesterday,
the 13 percent gap over PTTEP’s proposed deal price is the
biggest of any pending deal in western  Europe  of at least $500
million, data compiled by Bloomberg show, indicating traders
anticipate Cove will get the steepest price increase.  “They are expecting another bid, plain and simple,” said
Jason Gammel, a London-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  Richest Premium  Even at Cove’s closing price today, a deal would be the
richest premium on record for any takeover of an oil and natural
gas explorer and producer in the world valued at more than $1
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 91 percent premium
to Cove’s 20-day trading average before Shell’s original bid
would be more than three times the industry average of 26
percent, the data show.  Iain Reid, a London-based analyst at Jefferies, says
investors shouldn’t wager on a sweetened bid from Shell. The
company’s desire to acquire additional resources in Mozambique
may prevent it from boosting the Cove offer because that could
increase prices for other assets in the area, he said.  Also, the potential returns for investors may be limited,
according to a June 25 report from Jefferies analysts including
Laura Loppacher and Reid. The report said Shell may only top
PTTEP’s bid by 15 percent -- in line with previous counterbids -
- to 276 pence a share. That would only be 1.5 percent more than
today’s closing price, while a decline in Cove’s stock price to
the level of PTTEP’s offer would be about 12 percent.  New Discoveries  At the  Rovuma Area 1  exploration block off the coast of
Mozambique, a group led by  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  has found
increasing amounts of natural gas since the bidding for Cove
began. Last month Cove announced further gas finds, increasing
the total to 30 trillion to 60 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable gas resources, up from as much as 30 trillion cubic
feet previously.  The market believes “that the price needs to reflect those
new discoveries, and that is why the stock has gone up the way
it has,” said Macquarie’s Gammel. “This is one of the very few
circumstances where a company of a very small size has
bludgeoned themselves into an emerging world-class asset.”  Shell, Europe’s largest oil company, may push the bidding
to at least 290 pence a share, Muna Muleya, an analyst at
Merrion Capital in Dublin, said in a phone interview. That would
be a 104 percent premium to Cove’s 20-day average before the
bidding started.  Supplying Asia  Investec’s Joyner says a takeover price could reach 330
pence a share -- a 132 percent premium and 21 percent more than
today’s  close  -- because of Cove’s stake in one of the biggest
oil and gas discoveries in the last decade.  The discoveries open the way for Mozambique to become an
exporter of liquefied natural gas, shipping fuel to Asian
economies including India and  China . For state-controlled PTTEP,
buying Cove would give  Thailand  a secure source of gas. For
Shell, the world’s largest manager of LNG ships and member of
joint ventures supplying 30 percent of global LNG volumes last
year, it offers a foothold in  East Africa .  “By any measure, it is a genuine, world-class gas asset in
a strategic location on the Pacific Rim that’s easily accessible
for export to hungry Asian markets,” Werner Riding, an analyst
for Peel Hunt LLP in London, said in a phone interview. “The
market is clearly pricing in another counter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in  New York  at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 