-- David Jones Said to Have Missed Warnings in Canceled Bid
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-07-04T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/david-jones-said-to-have-missed-warnings-in-canceled-bid.html
David Jones  Ltd. should have halted
trading in its shares because of doubts about a A$1.65 billion
($1.7 billion) bid, according to takeover lawyers and one of the
company’s largest investors.  Australia ’s markets regulator said July 3 it is examining
“potential issues regarding disclosure and trading in David
Jones  stock ” after the offer from EB Private Equity collapsed.
EB’s U.K. address is a rented mailbox at the same address as a
company with one pound ($1.57) in assets whose only director
shares the name of EB’s chairman, John Edgar.  “They should have done some due diligence to see if this
guy was legitimate or not,” said Jason Beddow, chief executive
officer of  Argo Investments Ltd. (ARG)  and the 10th biggest
 shareholder  in the company with a 0.65 percent stake, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The offer for Australia’s second-largest department store
chain would have been the biggest retail takeover in the country
since  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES)  paid $15.2 billion for Coles Group Ltd. in
2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. David Jones,
founded in Sydney in 1838, rose the most in  17 years  on June 29
after it announced the proposal. EB withdrew the bid July 2,
wiping off 79 percent of the previous session’s share price
gain.  “We were very concerned about the authenticity of the
offer,” Helen Karlis, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for David
Jones, said in a July 3 interview by phone. “The legal advice
that we got was to proceed” with an announcement to the
Australian Securities Exchange.  Lack of Information  The company should have asked for its  shares  to be halted
given the lack of information about the bidder, said Beddow,
Melbourne-based corporate governance adviser Ownership Matters,
and takeover specialists at lawyers Baker & McKenzie, Allens,
and Clayton Utz.  An initial approach from EB, whose  website  states it is
based in the U.K. and Luxembourg, was received on May 28, David
Jones said in a response to a query from the Australian
Securities Exchange on July 2. David Jones wasn’t able to
“obtain any meaningful information” about the bidder and said
it had to disclose the proposal June 29 after a U.K.-based blog
named  newcastleetcfinance  published details.  David Jones “did act properly in releasing that
information at that time”, said  Paul Xiradis , chief executive
of Ausbil Dexia Ltd., the second-largest shareholder in the
retailer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “If people
are taking advantage of that, they’ll be found out.”  David Jones rose 2.15 percent to close at A$2.38 in Sydney
trading yesterday, compared with a 1.1 percent increase for the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Legal Advice  While Australian companies are obliged to disclose takeover
offers, such approaches need to be assessed for credibility,
said Andrew Finch, a partner specializing in mergers and
acquisitions at  Allens  law firm in Sydney. There’s a risk of
“misleading the market into believing there’s a credible bid
there, when in fact you don’t have any basis to decide,” he
said.  Karlis said David Jones raised its concerns in its
 statements . The initial announcement on June 29, which didn’t
name EB, said the suitor was “a non-incorporated U.K. entity
about which no usual public information is available.”  When the  shares  opened 13 minutes later at 10:15 a.m. they
surged 19 percent to A$2.69 within two minutes, their sharpest
rise since 1995.  No Deterrent  “Regardless of the face value of the wording, it didn’t
seem to deter people from trading in David Jones shares,” said
Steven Glanz, lead mergers and acquisitions partner at Baker
McKenzie lawyers in Sydney. “People didn’t appear to
differentiate it from the usual run of announcements where
directors caution investors about reacting to a potential
takeover.”  “They didn’t disclose who it was,” Karen Evans-Cullen, a
partner in the mergers and acquisitions department at Clayton
Utz in Sydney. “Not saying anything in some ways created more
credibility to the proposal than if they’d said who it was.”  A separate announcement at 2:11 p.m. named EB and said the
bidder hadn’t given David Jones details of its financial
capacity, management, or deal terms. The  shares  rose again to
A$2.67, before closing at A$2.59. The  Australian Securities and
Investments Commission , the country’s markets regulator,  said  it
was “examining the proposed takeover”.  Mail Box  EB, which isn’t on the U.K.’s corporate register, listed
its address in its first letter to David Jones at Suite 28, 58
Low Friar Street, in Newcastle-upon-Tyne,  England . That’s inside
a  branch  of Mail Boxes Etc., a post box rental company. The same
address is listed on internet domain registries as the contact
for EB’s  website .  It’s also the registered office for three other companies,
Mimu Ltd., Motion in Motion Ultra Ltd., and Goodinvestor Ltd.,
which list a John Edgar, born August 8, 1970, as the only
director or shareholder. A John Edgar with the same birth date
is sole director and shareholder of two other companies on the
U.K. register, Luxury Beverage Co. and Ellen’s Brands Ltd.  None of the five companies has ever lodged more than
summary financial statements, and all except Motion in Motion
and Luxury Beverage were dissolved in the past seven months. The
only other officer mentioned in a review of 20 regulatory
filings is Ellen Edgar. She’s named as company secretary of all
five companies, with the same contact address as John Edgar.  Balance Sheet  In summary accounts signed by Edgar and filed Dec. 31,
Luxury Beverage said it made no profit in 2011 and had 1 pound
of cash on its balance sheet. Motion in Motion Ultra was
incorporated on Jan. 27 with 1 pound of share capital.  Such details, if given to the market, would have helped
investors evaluate the bid, said Martin Lawrence, research
director of Ownership Matters. “If David Jones knew about this,
why didn’t they say so?” he said. “If they didn’t know about
it, why didn’t they know about it?”  Three telephone messages left on a mobile-phone number
listed in Mimu Ltd.’s filings as a contact weren’t returned. A
message left on another mobile phone and two e-mails sent to the
address listed on EB’s internet registry weren’t returned. A
statement on EB’s  website  on July 3 said “unfounded, inaccurate
and ill-informed publicity around our proposal has made it
difficult” for the takeover talks to proceed.  ‘Warning Signs’  The lack of a financial track record would have been
“throwing warning signs at me”, said Allens’s Finch. “For
companies to have been wound up without ever having lodged
accounts -- that would raise questions about someone acquiring
an asset the size of David Jones.”  David Jones’s  board  discussed the matter and external
financial and legal advisers Gresham Advisory Partners Ltd. and
Freehills looked into EB after the initial approach May 28,
Karlis said. With details of the bid on the newcastleetcfinance
blog prompting media inquiries on June 29, the company decided
it was safest to disclose the approach.  “We didn’t know if it was a front for a reputable private
equity firm or a syndicate of wealthy individuals,” she said.
“We warned  shareholders  to act cautiously.”  Freehills spokeswoman Daya Lichtenstein sent an e-mail
declining to comment, citing client confidentiality. Officials
at Gresham didn’t reply to three phone messages seeking comment.  Ownership Matters’s Lawrence said David Jones was
constrained by Australian corporate rules, which have demanded
ever-faster disclosure of material information in recent years.  “If they’d decided not to announce it and EB had been
credible they’d have been hung out to dry,” he said.  Allens’s Finch said “the pendulum has swung too far to
boards immediately disclosing approaches.”  With hindsight, the company should have halted its  shares 
from trade, said Argo’s Beddow, Baker McKenzie’s Glanz, and
Clayton Utz’s Evans-Cullen.  “If the proof is in the pudding, the wording of their
statements didn’t deter people from reacting,” said Glanz.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  