-- Devaluing the Pound Isn’t a Solution, It’s Default
-- B y   G o r d o n   K e r r
-- 2012-07-04T22:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/devaluing-the-pound-isn-t-a-solution-it-s-default.html
Greece ’s inability to devalue its
currency is often cited as a reason for the extreme economic
pain its citizens are enduring, and many commentators say the
country should return to the drachma to restore competitiveness.  In the U.K., which -- unlike Greece -- isn’t part of the
euro area and can devalue if it wishes, there’s growing pressure
to do so. A letter recently circulated to some 3,000 influential
figures proposed deliberately weakening the British pound to
boost exports and hence economic growth. Debasing currencies in
this way is promoted as an alternative to sovereign default, as
well as to other methods of increasing competitiveness, such as
cutting nominal wages.  But all this wistful focus on  currency devaluation  -- the
route that countries such as Greece, Spain and Italy cannot take
so long as they remain in the euro area -- is a mistake.  To start with, devaluation is not an alternative to
sovereign default. When a government decides to devalue, savers
who trusted the currency to store their wealth, and creditors
who bought bonds denominated in the currency, find the value of
their assets cut. That’s sovereign default by a different name.  Official net  U.K. debt  excluding the effect of financial
interventions such as bank bailouts is about 1 trillion pounds
($1.57 trillion), or 36,000 pounds per household. A recent
 analysis  of U.K. pension accounts by Ros Altmann of Saga Group
Ltd., an enterprise focusing on financial services for those
aged over 50, estimated that the 5 trillion-pound to 7 trillion-
pound cost of U.K. unfunded state pensions amounts to at least
an additional 180,000 pounds per household. The U.K. government
must either default or modify unfunded promises if it is to
resolve those debts. Devaluing the pound would be one way to
achieve that.  Avoiding Inflation  But if the U.K. were to decide to default or reduce
unfunded liabilities, it would be better to do so openly, with
conscious decisions made as to which creditors will lose out and
by how much. A structured default avoids triggering inflation
and helps people plan.  Default through devaluation, in contrast, is a policy of
deliberate inflation. Inflation is popular with elected
governments as it reduces the real cost of national debts
without the need to declare default or ask for a bailout. But
that comes at a cost. One of the downsides to inflation is the
arbitrary way in which it redistributes wealth.  To quote  from
John  Maynard Keynes : “There is no subtler, no surer means of
overturning the existing basis of society than to debauch the
currency. The process engages all the hidden forces of economic
law on the side of destruction, and does it in a manner which
not one man in a million is able to diagnose.” This lesson was
subsequently forgotten by Keynes’s own followers, but was
relearned during the stagflation of the 1970s.  The counterargument is that devaluation improves a nation’s
relative competitiveness and gives a boost to its export
industries. But here’s the rub: Such a boost can only ever be
temporary. The U.K. discovered this again in 2008, when the
effect of “crisis resolution” policies, such as dropping
 interest rates  to near zero and printing money in the form of
quantitative easing, resulted in the pound losing 25 percent of
its value. As the policy took effect, imports became more
expensive and prices rose to compensate, triggering inflation.
Exporters enjoyed benefits, but these were matched by the costs
suffered by importers -- and, in turn, consumers. Like other
forms of monetary debasement, such as quantitative easing and
bailouts, devaluation creates the mirage of benefits in the
short term, but these are paid for by citizens over time.  Should the U.K. repeat the exercise and devalue again
through quantitative easing, as suggested by last month’s Bank
of England Monetary Policy Committee meeting, it would risk
getting trapped on an inflationary treadmill.  History Lessons  The historical record on this issue is pretty clear. No
nation has achieved lasting prosperity by undermining its
currency. Anyone who has any doubts on this should look at the
history of  Argentina , which had repeated devaluations and
currency crises and  remains  an economic basket case.  Devaluation is just one of many soft-money tools presently
deployed in concerted, but misguided, attempts to fix the
financial crisis. Has it escaped the attention of European
citizens that the crisis has only gotten worse the longer
interest rates have been maintained at near zero levels; the
more money the  European Central Bank  has issued via quantitative
easing; and the more cheap funding has been provided to banks to
which no market participant would lend?  Partly because Greece, Spain and Italy cannot devalue
without leaving the euro, it is often argued that devaluation is
a potential savior for countries such as the U.K., which luckily
have their own currencies. This is deeply flawed logic. The
answer to whatever the U.K.’s current problems are can hardly be
more of the same policies that created those problems.
Politicians who promise jam and sweeties today at the expense of
currency debasement are poor servants of their national
interests. Together with the ill-judged decision to bail out
bankrupt banks with loss-making business models, this trend has
prolonged the crisis that swept the Western world in 2008.  Carmen Reinhart  and  Kenneth Rogoff ’s 2009 bestseller, “This
Time Is Different,” charts eight centuries of financial crises
and broadly splits them into sovereign defaults and banking
collapses. The present Western crisis is severe because we have
both. We need solutions to both of these problems and, despite
its many fans, currency devaluation addresses neither. It can
mask the symptoms of the crisis, but it can’t cure them. Such
policies are like plastering over a structural crack in a load-
bearing wall: They end in a pile of rubble.  (Gordon Kerr is the founder of Cobden Partners and the
author of “ The Law of Opposites : Illusory Profits in the
Financial Sector.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on U.S.  funding for Unesco  and
on states’  abuse of federal foreclosure aid ;  Susan Antilla  on
 prison sentences for white-collar felons ;  Michael Kinsley  on the
 corporate right to free speech ;  Ezra Klein  on the  Republican-
inspired tax increases in the Republican-inspired health-care 
law.  To contact the writer of this article:
Gordon Kerr at  gkerr@cobdenpartners.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  