-- Diamond ‘Looking for a Little Love’ Gets Grilling
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-07-06T14:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/diamond-looking-for-a-little-love-gets-u-k-lawmaker-grilling.html
(Corrects date of fine in eighth paragraph in story
published July 5. See EXT2 for more Barclays coverage.)  U.K. lawmakers accused former
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  of “living
in a parallel universe” and operating a “worrying” management
structure, as he apologized for the lender’s rigging of  interest
rates .  “Do you live in a parallel universe to the rest of the
U.K.?” Andrea Leadsom, a Conservative member of the House of
Commons Treasury Committee, asked Diamond at a hearing in London
yesterday. “You say it’s the culture that saved Barclays, but
it’s the culture that’s the problem.”  Diamond was testifying the day after he resigned amid the
uproar that followed the bank’s admission it manipulated the
London interbank offered rate. He opened by telling lawmakers
“I love Barclays,” describing the behavior of “a small
number” of traders as “reprehensible.” In three hours of
testimony, he addressed panel members by their first names and
attempted to banter with them, at one point telling ToryMark Garnier he was “just looking for a little love.”  The committee responded at times with expressions of
disbelief, cutting him off as he tried to give longer answers
and quoting back to him remarks he’d made in the past. “You
have come to symbolize a culture that itself needs changing,”
Labour’s Pat McFadden told him.  Andrew Tyrie , the committee’s Conservative chairman, later
summarized Diamond’s version of events as “somewhat
implausible.”  ‘Sorry Tale’  “Cumulatively, the whole thing looks a fairly sorry tale
from the point of view of the culture of Barclays,” Tyrie told
Sky News television late last night. “He was defending the
culture of Barclays but the bank have now got a root-and-branch
investigation into themselves going on right now, the only
justification of which must be they feel there is something
wrong with the culture too.”  Parliament’s lower House of Commons will vote later today
on what kind of inquiry the government should hold into the
banks. Prime Minister  David Cameron  wants a time-limited probe
by lawmakers, chaired by Tyrie. The opposition  Labour Party 
wants a judge-led investigation. Tyrie said yesterday he’ll only
lead an inquiry that has cross-party support.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($453 million) on June 27 for
rigging Libor, a global benchmark. Lawmakers sought to determine
precisely what Diamond, 60, knew about the affair.  ‘Physically Ill’  The Massachusetts-born banker began with contrition.
Questioned about e-mails between traders and those responsible
for supplying information on the rates Barclays was paying to
borrow money overnight that showed routine requests for false
submissions, he said they made him “physically ill.”  Leadsom, a former Barclays banker herself, questioned why
compliance officers hadn’t been aware of these exchanges, which
took place over a period of years. Diamond replied that rate-
setting hadn’t been seen as a high-risk area.  She then asked whether the bank’s bonus culture had
encouraged wrongdoing. “Individuals were remunerated just to
look after No. 1,” she said.  Leadsom told the BBC that she thought future witnesses
should be instructed to address panel members as Mr. or Mrs.  Labour’s  John Mann  said his voters viewed Diamond as
running a “rotten, thieving bank” and suggested he give his
recent annual bonuses to a homeless charity. “Either you were
complicit in what was going on, or you were grossly negligent,
or you were incompetent,” he said.  Quaker Values  Asked by Mann whether he was upholding the values of the
Quakers who founded Barclays, Diamond replied that “honesty,
integrity and plain-dealing” had characterized his career.  Another Labour lawmaker, George Mudie, told Diamond that
his statement that no one at Barclays had raised concerns about
traders’ actions “doesn’t wash” and indicated a cultural
shortcoming.  “You were running that firm,” Mudie said. “We know the
behavior was wrong. But the management in your place was
extremely worrying.”  Liberal Democrat John Thurso offered Diamond a back-handed
compliment. Conceding they had got little new information from
the banker, he compared him to former England cricketer Geoffrey Boycott, known for batting unadventurously for hours without
making errors.  “You’ve been occupying the crease for 2 1/2 hours and I’m
not sure we’ve got a great deal further forward,” Thurso said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  