-- Diamond Says Rivals Lowballed Libor, Blames Regulators
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-07-06T15:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/diamond-says-barclays-penalized-for-being-first-fined-over-libor.html
Robert Diamond , who quit yesterday as
chief executive officer of  Barclays Plc (BARC) , said a backlash that
has led to the resignation of senior managers and erased $5
billion from the bank’s market value is a consequence of the
lender being the first sanctioned for rigging interest rates.  “There has been an unfortunate series of events in the
last week in the fact that Barclays was identified as the first
bank,” Diamond, 60, said in testimony before Parliament’s
Treasury Select Committee in London today. It became “clear to
me” by July 2 that he had lost the support of regulators to
remain CEO, Diamond said.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($453.4 million) on June 27
for rigging the  London  interbank offered rate. Lawmakers are
trying to determine what Diamond knew about disclosures last
week that Barclays tried to manipulate the benchmark for profit
and to mask its difficulty borrowing money during the credit
crisis.  “Clearly there were mistakes,” Diamond said. “Clearly
there was behavior that was reprehensible.”  Barclays has defended itself by detailing its attempts to
warn regulators about competitors’ misconduct and by providing
documents suggesting the U.K. government pressed it to lower its
Libor submissions during the 2008 financial crisis.  Regulatory Settlements  The settlements with the U.K. Financial Services Authority,
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the U.S.
Justice Department resolved claims going back to 2005 that
derivatives traders at London-based Barclays requested false
Libor submissions to benefit swap and futures positions tied to
the rate. The regulators also said that senior managers at
Barclays told staff to submit artificially low rates from August
2007 until 2009.  The Barclays  accord  was the first in an investigation by
regulators around the globe that has ensnared at least 12 banks,
including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , Credit
Suisse Group AG and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. (RBS)  In
addition to Diamond, the Libor scandal has triggered the
resignations of Barclays Chairman Marcus Agius, 65, and Chief
Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier, 50.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  