-- Diamond Would Be Catch for Investment, Private Equity
-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-07-04T07:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/diamond-would-be-catch-for-investment-private-equity.html
If  Robert Diamond  can’t recover in
banking after resigning as  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s chief executive
officer amid the firm’s record regulatory fines, he would still
be a sought-after prospect in another field: investment funds.  Diamond, 60, could easily start a new career at a private-
equity firm or hedge fund, according to executive recruiters in
the U.S. and the U.K. It’s a path worn by ousted heads of
financial firms including former Fannie Mae CEO  Daniel Mudd .
Diamond’s chance of getting another job leading a big, publicly
traded bank is slim, the recruiters said.  “ Private equity  will snap him up because they’re not
regulated by the same rules as banks, and Diamond’s got the
money and experience to help them buy and run financial
institutions,” said Pat Cook, who heads search firm Cook & Co.
in Bronxville,  New York . “I don’t think a public company will
touch him with a 10-foot pole,” she said.  Diamond stepped down from Britain’s second-biggest bank
yesterday amid mounting political furor over its 290 million-
pound ($455 million) settlement of U.K. and U.S. probes into
attempting rigging of the  London  and euro interbank offered
rates. He joins at least two dozen top executives at the world’s
largest financial firms who’ve vacated corner offices following
losses or accusations of mismanagement since 2007.  Mudd, 53, who was dismissed from  Fannie Mae  when the
government seized control of the mortgage-finance firm, went on
to lead New York-based private-equity and hedge-fund manager
Fortress Investment Group LLC. He left that post in January amid
a government lawsuit stemming from his Fannie Mae tenure.  British Lawmakers  Former Wachovia Corp. CEO G. Kennedy Thompson, 61, was
ousted in June 2008 before the lender reported an $8.9 billion
loss tied to declining asset values. He later joined Aquiline
Capital Partners, a New York-based private-equity firm.  Diamond, who wasn’t named as a defendant in the regulatory
probes, was questioned by British lawmakers on the Treasury
Select Committee today. He resigned after the government
announced a parliamentary inquiry into the U.K. banking 
industry.  Mark Lane , a Barclays spokesman in New York, declined to
comment.  While Diamond’s prospects in banking are likely to be
limited by the regulatory incident, that wouldn’t prevent other
types of financial firms from trying to tap his connections and
credentials, recruiters said.  Aggressive Dealmaker  “His skills and experience would be highly prized in
private equity or other non-public enterprises, if he wants to
resurrect himself,” said Joel Koblentz, founding partner of The
Koblentz Group in Atlanta, which conducts searches for CEOs and
corporate directors.  Known as an  aggressive dealmaker  -- Diamond negotiated a
$1.75 billion acquisition of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
North American operations five years ago -- the banker shouldn’t
wait on the sidelines during the Libor scrutiny if he wants to
join another firm, the recruiters said.  “You risk losing your competitive advantage,” said
Koblentz. “Diamond is an executive who’s used to winning and
being at the top of the pyramid. Now he has to position himself
to be back in the game.”  Diamond, who held roles at  Credit Suisse First Boston  in
 Tokyo  and New York and Morgan Stanley before joining Barclays,
ran the London-based bank’s securities unit when the Libor
manipulation occurred. He became president of the bank in 2005
and by 2007 his Barclays Capital unit accounted for almost one-
third of  pretax profit . He became CEO at the start of last year.  He’s most likely to find another career opportunity in the
U.S., where he was born and where “his skill set will be more
appreciated,” said  Jason Kennedy , CEO of Kennedy Group, a
recruitment firm. “Somebody will pick him up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 choudhury@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Edward Evans  at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 