-- Draghi-King Push May Mean Bigger Step Into Zero-Rate Era
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-07-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/draghi-king-may-delve-deeper-into-zero-rate-world-today.html
The  European Central Bank  and the
Bank of  England  may drive global monetary policy deeper into the
world of zero  interest rates  and unorthodox methods today as
they seek to stimulate their flagging economies.  The ECB will take its  benchmark interest rate  below 1
percent for the first time, cutting it by a quarter percentage
point to a record low of 0.75 percent, and reduce its deposit
rate to zero, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The Bank of England will raise its target for bond
purchases by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion
pounds, another  survey  shows.  The moves would push JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s average
interest rate for developed economies to a crisis-era low of
about 0.5 percent and add to the balance sheets of major central
banks, which have already swelled 40 percent in five years of
global financial turmoil. The jury is out on whether the
monetary medicine will work or whether policy makers will be
forced to deploy further measures.  “A big part of the world economy has become fairly
stagnant and so central banks are in easing mode again,” said
Joseph Lupton, a global economist at JPMorgan in  New York .
“We’re probably at the point of diminishing returns, but it can
still be argued that it helps somewhat.”  Global Easing  The Bank of England, which has been drawn into the scandal
over Barclays Plc’s rigging of Libor rates, will announce its
decision at noon in  London . The ECB will follow at 1:45 p.m. in
 Frankfurt  and President  Mario Draghi  holds a press conference 45
minutes later.  Easier monetary policy in  Europe  would follow the lead of
central bankers in the U.S.,  China  and  Australia , who were among
those to act in the past month.  The Fed, which holds its benchmark rate in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent, expanded an operation to lengthen the
maturities of assets on its balance sheet to lower long-term
market interest rates. The Bank of  Japan ’s key rate is at 0.1
percent and economists at UBS AG and Jefferies Japan Ltd. are
among those predicting it will next week boost its asset-buying
program from the current 40 trillion yen ($500 billion).  The additional stimulus almost five years since the start
of the financial crisis has helped support equity and commodity
markets. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  is up 8.6 percent since June 4.  Debt Crisis  Forcing central bankers’ hands is Europe’s debt crisis,
which has caused the weakest patch of global growth since the
end of the 2009 recession. All but three of the 26 developed
economies monitored by JPMorgan will see inflation undershooting
their central banks’ targets by the end of the year, according
to Lupton.  ECB policy makers are meeting six days after European
leaders handed respite to their stressed bond markets by
addressing weaknesses in their bailout programs and trying to
break a negative loop between troubled sovereigns and banks.  The political progress may encourage the ECB to build on
the confidence boost by offering further support to the
faltering euro-area economy. Unemployment rose to a record 11.1
percent in May and the services and manufacturing industries
contracted for a fifth month in June. The 17-nation economy will
shrink 0.3 percent this year, according to the European
Commission.  “The economic case for easing is quite overwhelming,” said
 Nick Kounis , head of macro research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam.
“The  euro zone  is in recession and contraction looks like
extending into the third quarter. Most indicators are clearly
consistent with monetary easing and probably further substantial
monetary easing.”  Deposit Rate  Rate cuts would reduce borrowing costs for euro-area banks,
which have tapped the ECB for more than 1 trillion euros ($1.26
trillion) in three-year loans.  Taking the deposit rate to zero from 0.25 percent may also
encourage banks to lend rather than parking excess cash with the
ECB overnight. Around 800 billion euros is currently being
deposited with the ECB each day.  At the same time, a deposit rate cut would lower market
interest rates and potentially hurt banks’ profitability, which
could discouraging them from lending. The euro overnight index
average, or Eonia, stood at 0.33 percent yesterday.  The ECB has resisted cutting its key rate below 1 percent
or joining its U.S. and British counterparts in pursuing
quantitative easing, preferring instead to offer banks
liquidity.  ‘ECB QE’  The lower its rates go, the more the ECB may have to
consider using asset purchases to ease policy further, said
 Joachim Fels , chief economist at Morgan Stanley in London.  “While ECB QE is not on the cards yet, it might become a
market focus over the next few months if the recession persists
and the ECB starts to worry about potential deflationary risks
for the euro area as a whole,” Fels said.  Already plagued by a repeat recession, the Bank of England
may bolster its asset-purchase program after Governor  Mervyn King  said last week that Europe’s debt turmoil has stoked
uncertainty and tightened credit availability.  U.K. mortgage approvals fell in May and construction ouput
contracted at the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years. Inflation slowed
to 2.8 percent in May, the closest to the central bank’s 2
percent target since November 2009. The U.K. economy will expand
just 0.1 percent this year, according to the British Chambers of
Commerce.  Temptation to Act  While 30 of 41 economists in the Bloomberg survey predict a
50 billion-pound increase in the  Bank of England ’s asset-
purchase target, eight anticipate it will add 75 billion pounds.
The bank will leave its key rate at a record low of 0.5 percent,
according to 49 of 50 economists in a separate survey.  “Given how inadequate growth is perceived to have been,
the temptation to do a bit more will be there,” said Neville Hill, an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in London.  The central bank is taking other steps to aid growth,
including establishing a program to boost credit to companies
and households and activating a sterling liquidity facility for
banks.  It remains to be seen whether the additional measures can
bolster growth.  The  Bank for International Settlements  said last month that
central banks are confronting the limits of their ability to aid
recoveries and risk creating longer-term problems for their
economies.  Draghi last month also questioned the effectiveness of
cutting ECB rates, arguing that “price signals” have a
“relatively limited immediate effect” amid financial-market
tensions. By contrast, King said on June 14 that “the view that
further monetary stimulus is, in present conditions, simply
‘pushing on a string’ is, in my view too pessimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  