-- DZ Bank Sells First Structured Note on U.K. Credit Since 2010
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2012-07-04T09:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/dz-bank-sells-first-structured-note-on-u-k-credit-since-2010.html
DZ Bank  AG sold the first structured
note tied to the debt of the U.K. since June 2010 as German
investors seek European sovereign credits outside the euro area.  The biggest underwriter of structured notes this year
issued seven-year securities on July 3, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bank plans to sell as much as 50
million euros ($63.1 million) of the notes, said Rainer
Overbeck, DZ Bank’s head of structured credit trading.  German cooperative lenders bought the securities, according
to Overbeck. The Frankfurt-based institution is one of two
clearing organizations for Germany’s cooperatives, allowing it
to provide structured products directly to more than 900 local
lenders.  “We see demand for developed nation credits that are
nearby and not in the euro,” Overbeck said. The bank also saw
strong demand for a similar note it sold in May tied to  Denmark ,
he said.  The last security tied to the U.K.’s credit was on June 2,
2010, a $200 million offering by Deutsche Bank AG, Bloomberg
data show.  The most popular sovereign debt for credit-linked notes
this year is that of Russia and Brazil. Banks sold $708.6
million of securities tied to Russia and $706.9 million of notes
linked to Brazil, Bloomberg data show. The two  emerging markets ,
along with India and China, will make up 20 percent of the world
economy this year, according to data from the  International
Monetary Fund .  Credit-linked notes are securities with derivatives tied to
the risk of a company or country’s debt and offer higher yields
and tailored maturities that may not be available in the  bond
market . Investors suffer losses if there’s a default for either
the bank issuing the note or the reference entity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  