-- The Other Big Case the Supreme Court Got Right
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-07-04T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/the-other-big-case-the-supreme-court-got-right.html
“It is not our job to protect the
people from the consequences of their political choices,” wrote
U.S. Chief Justice John Roberts, making pretty clear  what he
thinks  about Obamacare even as he supplied the crucial fifth
vote to uphold it.  So Roberts gets big points for intellectual honesty, and
the health-care decision will not join the surprisingly short
list of Supreme Court rulings during our lifetime that liberals
love to hate.  It has been 39 years since  Roe v. Wade , the high water mark
of liberal activism, and 43 years -- 28 of them with a
Republican president choosing the justices -- since Warren Burger replaced  Earl Warren  as chief justice and the
counterrevolution was supposed to start. One way or another, the
major Warren Court rulings have dodged bullet after bullet.  Actually, there are only two cases in the past half-century
that are notorious, from a liberal point of view:  Bush v. Gore ,
which upheld the theft of the 2000 presidential election, and
 Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission , just two and a
half years ago, which declared that corporations have a right of
free speech under the First Amendment.  Bush v. Gore is indefensible.  Citizens United  is not. In
fact, it was correctly decided, however deplorable the
consequences. Liberals ought to show the chief justice that we
too can acknowledge a principle even when we don’t agree with
the result.  Outright Ban  Citizens United overturned provisions of  a law  once known
as McCain-Feingold, after its main sponsors. The law was “an
outright ban, backed by criminal sanctions” (as Justice  Anthony Kennedy ’s majority opinion explained) on advocating the election
or defeat of a candidate, or issuing any other “electioneering
communication,” within 60 days of a general election or 30 days
of a primary.  As applied to an individual, such a law would be obviously
unconstitutional. Endorsement of a political candidate -- even
if that candidate is yourself -- is about as central to the
First Amendment as any category of speech can be. The government
may restrict campaign contributions if it wishes (as it does),
because a contribution isn’t speech and will not necessarily be
spent on speech. Money spent promoting yourself or others for
public office is speech, and can’t be censored.  Wait a moment, goes the response by every liberal newspaper
and website in the nation. Speech by a corporation is different.
Corporations are artificial entities, designed and built by the
government. They have no more rights than Dr. Frankenstein’s
monster. Human beings may decide to organize themselves as a
corporation, but even real people don’t have a constitutional
right to exercise their constitutional rights in corporate form.  A pretty good argument, I’ve always thought, but it
stumbles over media companies (as Kennedy notes at length in
Citizens United). If “money isn’t speech,” as many a  New York 
Times editorial has declared, may the government put a limit on
how much a corporation can spend publishing a newspaper?  The law Citizens United overturned actually exempted media
companies from its spending limits. But the difficulty --
impossibility, really -- of defining a media company, and
explaining why it should have more rights than any other
company, suggests that a right granted to one company should be
granted to all.  There is no doubt that this year’s election campaign has
vindicated the concerns of critics of the Citizens United
ruling. The influence of money in politics is greater than ever,
and the influence of people with money is growing apace.  Inalienable Rights  So what’s the solution? Please don’t say, “Amend the
Constitution.” The current political atmosphere is not one in
which opening the First Amendment for discussion and
reconsideration is a good idea. Anyway, constitutional rights
are “inalienable” (as we were just reminded on July Fourth).
Corporations will continue to have First Amendment rights even
if we choose not to recognize them.  The solution is to make money a voting issue -- which now,
by and large, it is not. It’s a kvetching issue, not a voting
issue. Politicians -- who are not, primarily, in it for the
money -- should have to make the calculation every time they
spend a dollar or look the other way while others spend a dollar
on their behalf: Will this money buy me more votes than it will
cost me? All it would take would be the defeat of a few
representatives (and maybe a senator or two) precisely because
they or others spent an offensive amount of money on the effort
to get re-elected.  This could completely change the relationship between
dollars spent and election results, and it wouldn’t require
judges to deny anybody his or her (or its) constitutional
rights. As Chief Justice Roberts says, it’s not the  Supreme
Court ’s job to save us from ourselves.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on U.S.  funding for Unesco  and
on states’  abuse of federal foreclosure aid ;  Susan Antilla  on
 prison sentences for white-collar felons ;  Ezra Klein  on the
 Republican-inspired tax increases in the Republican-inspired
health-care  law; Gordon Kerr on why devaluing the pound would be
a  form of default .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 