-- Egyptian Youth’s Murder in Suez Puts Islamists on Defensive
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-07-04T16:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/egypt-youth-s-murder-before-fiancee-puts-islamists-on-defensive.html
Egyptian authorities were searching
for three bearded men who fatally stabbed a young man as he sat
with his fiancee in a garden, prompting Islamists to distance
themselves from the attack.  The attack on 20-year-old Ahmed Eid in the port city of
Suez led to his death on July 1, one day after the Muslim
Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi was sworn in as Egypt’s first
civilian president, threatening to deepen suspicions about the
Islamists who have grown in strength since the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  last year. It has also heightened fears about the
perceived breakdown in security in the 17 months since the
uprising.  “My son didn’t deserve to be killed in this brutal way,”
Hussein Eid, the young man’s father, said in a phone interview
today. “Those who killed a 20-year-old youth standing with his
fiancee cannot be religious people. They are criminals.”  Authorities say the victim was attacked in a park after the
men approached him and asked him about his relationship to the
woman. Interior Ministry officials have not linked the attack to
any of the mainstream Islamist groups. Major-General Adel
Refaat, the head of security in Suez, was cited by the state-run
Al-Ahram today as saying that the “noose was tightening”
around the assailants.  “This isn’t a state any more, it’s a jungle,” said Eid.
Hundreds gathered for his son’s funeral yesterday in the city,
state media reported.  Egypt ’s main Islamist groups, who have been viewed with a
measure of suspicion and fear by secularists and the country’s
Christian minority since Mubarak’s ouster, distanced themselves
from the attack. The Muslim Brotherhood issued a statement on
its website condemning the attack.  ‘Systematic Defamation’  “Leaking this case now and trying to turn it into a public
opinion story, just a few days after Mohamed Mursi was sworn in,
is part of a systematic defamation campaign against the Muslim
Brotherhood and the Islamists in general, adopted by the
security apparatus of the old regime,” Ali Khafagy, the
secretary-general of the youth committee of the Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party, said by phone.  “They want people to think that Mursi is giving a chance
to the rise of fundamentalists and the spread of chaos,”
Khafagy said. A coalition of political groups and activists
issued a statement also condemning the attack and calling on
authorities to quickly bring the attackers to justice.  The incident comes amid a debate over the role of Islamic
law in guiding legislation in the country -- an issue being
discussed in a committee charged with drafting a new
constitution.  Religiosity increased in Egypt over the past 10 years under
Mubarak, as the country saw a “slow change in the social norms
and values that moved from moderate and inclusive to exclusive
and a bit fanatic,” Khalil al-Anani, a political analyst and
expert on Islamist movements at Durham University in the U.K.,
said by phone, adding that cases of religious vigilantism would
likely be short-lived.  “It will be a real challenge to the Brotherhood about how
to deal with it and how to reinstate the rule of law and sense
of state among Egyptians again,” he said. This is not “the
norm in Egypt, which has a very strong state and, at some point,
the state will act.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  