-- Telefonica Bids to Own the Latin Smartphone Halting Google: Tech
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-07-05T16:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/telefonica-bids-to-own-the-latin-smartphone-halting-google-tech.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , the former Spanish
phone monopoly reeling from plummeting sales at home, is
plotting to claw back control from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in Latin America.  Telefonica, luring first-time smartphone buyers in  Brazil ,
is designing a handset software system that is freely available
to network operators and manufacturers, similar to Google’s
Android, the world’s biggest platform. For network carriers,
it’s a chance to have a say over what consumers see, use and buy
via their smartphones, lost to Google and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  when such
handsets became must-have devices.  Telefonica has teamed up with Mozilla Corp., the company
whose Firefox program challenged the dominance of  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Web browser. This week, six additional companies,
including  Germany ’s  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ,
said they will use the platform in other countries, such as
 Poland . While Android is free, operators currently must accept
that the biggest search engine controls the software code and
makes advertising money from pushing users to take its mapping,
e-mail and search services.  “We don’t like the fact that one part of the value chain
of our business is tightly controlled,”  Carlos Domingo ,
director of product development at Telefonica’s digital unit,
said in an interview. “In the case of the emerging countries
it’s worse, because it becomes a monopoly by Google.”  Tailored Services  By having access to the software and hardware from the
beginning, Telefonica will be able to tailor additional services
for users in fast-growing  emerging markets  in  Latin America 
where many subscribers are buying their first smartphone. Every
second U.S. consumer and 37 percent of western Europeans already
own a smartphone.  Telefonica, Spain’s biggest phone company, will bring the
first Firefox handset to Brazil as smartphone growth in South
and Central America is soaring, with annual shipments climbing
to 160 million devices by the end of 2015 from 31.2 million in
2011, according to estimates from Ovum, a London-based
telecommunications industry research firm.  While Google has a head start, Telefonica is racing to
compete, targeting “double-digit market” share for its low-
priced Android challenger in Brazil by the end of 2015, Domingo
said.  Slipped Deadline  The deadline has already slipped. With its first phone
initially due at the end of this year, Telefonica said before
its investor conference in  London  today that the first handsets
built by Chinese manufacturers  ZTE Corp. (763)  and  TCL Communication
Technology Holdings Ltd. (2618)  will now be offered from early 2013.  Telefonica is in talks with six additional handset makers,
Matthew Key, the head of the company’s digital unit, said at the
investor meeting.  “We’re overly reliant on Android and that’s not a
strategically strong position to be in,” he said.  To persuade Latin American consumers to upgrade to
smartphones, and not take an Android device, the devices will
need to be priced at about $100, Domingo said.  Deutsche Telekom is in talks to offer the handsets in its
eastern European markets, Thomas Kiessling, the company’s chief
innovation officer, said in an interview, adding that the phones
would cost about 80 euros ($100) to 100 euros.  Telefonica’s smartphone software drive, overseen by
Telefonica Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta, marks the
latest attempt by operators to build out rival services and
applications and convince investors that they are more than
pipes that facilitate the surging demand for data-hungry
devices. Their previous efforts to build app stores, send calls
and messages over the Web, and develop payment systems, have
been abandoned or brought out long after rivals have stolen a
march.  Failed Efforts  “We’ve also been on board of other operator consortiums
that have failed,” Domingo said, adding that these joint
projects were never “as open as they claimed to be.”  Telefonica, which has net financial debt of 57 billion
euros, in May reported an 8.8 percent drop in first-quarter
operating profit after it lost customers in its home market to
discounters. The shares dropped 2.6 percent to 10.21 euros in
 Madrid . The stock has fallen 24 percent this year, making it the
 worst performer  in the 19-company Bloomberg Europe
Telecommunication Services Index.  Telefonica today predicted its digital business to generate
annual sales of about 5 billion euros by 2015. Revenues of
Telefonica Digital, created in September 2011 by combining
Internet assets over three continents such as social-networking
site Tuenti and Web-phone unit Jajah, will expand at an annual
growth rate of 20 percent, it said.  Powerful Player  Google in April reported first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates as CEO  Larry Page , who took charge a year
ago, has pushed Google deeper into display advertising and
mobile services.  Android is installed on 56 percent of new smartphones, more
than twice Apple’s share, researcher Gartner Inc. said in May.
In the first quarter, global handset sales declined 2 percent to
419 million, while smartphone sales rose 45 percent.  “You need a powerful player to influence the road map,”
said  Malik Saadi , an analyst at Informa in London. “The
operators are losing that battle, even with Android, and the
only way is to create their own brand in the mass smartphone
market.”  Mozilla, which has doubled its staffing in mobile in the
last year, is starting from a low base as it aims to do the same
thing with smartphones as it did to the desktop with its web
browser. Mozilla’s existing mobile browser had less than 1
percent of the market at the end of 2011, according to Net
Applications.  Failed Rivals  By designing a device where even the dialing screen is a
web page, it’s a chance for Mozilla to differentiate devices,
said CEO Gary Kovacs. “If you look at Android and Apple and
Windows, a phone in Brazil looks the same as a phone in
 Cleveland ,” he said in an interview.  At the same time, the operators are following a path
littered with failures from both carriers and manufacturers to
come up with a rival platform.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  stopped making devices using its open-
source WebOS software it acquired from Palm Inc. for $1.2
billion in 2011.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  scrapped its own Meltemi platform in
June, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Domingo is aware of those pitfalls. While Mozilla’s foray
into Internet browsing made the web competitive, he said, “that
is very different to the situation we have in mobile.”  “It is all about control, and once you have that control
you can open up many doors,” said Nick Dillon, an analyst at
Ovum. “It’s the ability to push apps on the home screen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  