-- Most Emerging Stocks Gain on Stimulus Hope, Vehicle Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-04T20:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/emerging-stocks-advance-to-seven-week-high-on-stimulus-optimism.html
Most emerging-market stocks rose, led
by consumer companies, after automakers beat estimates for U.S.
sales and on speculation that Chinese and European central banks
will ease monetary policy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  was little changed at
956.26 at the close in  New York , with 442 stocks advancing and
308 declining.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index rose 0.5 percent, led by
raw-materials producers such as  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA (USIM5)  and Cia.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s biggest
carmaker, climbed the most in two weeks as it sold more cars in
the U.S. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese stocks
listed in  Hong Kong  fell 0.3 percent. The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 0.5
percent in Moscow.  The European Central Bank will cut  interest rates  tomorrow,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. The 21 countries
in the developing-nation gauge send about 30 percent of their
exports to the European Union on average, data compiled by the
World Trade Organization show. A government-linked newspaper in
 China  said policy makers may lower lenders’ reserve requirements
three more times this year.  “Following the European Union summit-induced recovery
since last week, emerging market equities took a breather and
are watching tomorrow’s  European central bank  meeting,” Simon Quijano-Evans, head of emerging-market research at ING Groep NV
in  London , said by e-mail.  The ECB will lower its benchmark rate by 25 basis points to
a record low 0.75 percent tomorrow, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 57 economists.  Usiminas, Oi  Brazil’s Bovespa led gains among major Latin American
indexes. Usiminas, as Usinas Siderurgicas is known, advanced 3.2
percent to the highest in two weeks. Steelmaker Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional SA rose 3.1 percent and Oi SA, Brazil’s fourth-largest
telecommunications operator by market value, jumped 4.6 percent,
following a 6 percent advance yesterday.  Mexico’s  Grupo Elektra SAB (ELEKTRA*)  rose 3.1 percent after a judge
temporarily blocked  Mexico ’s stock exchange from changing the
way it calculates its weightings for the IPC index, which would
have reduced Elektra’s presence.  Hyundai jumped 1.7 percent in  Seoul , the most since June
19. Hyundai and its affiliate Kia combined to sell 10 percent
more vehicles in the U.S. in June than a year earlier, exceeding
the 9.8 percent increase that was the average of six analysts’
estimates.  Russia’s Micex gauge posted its fourth day of gains and
 Turkey ’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rose 0.4 percent.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index advanced 0.2 percent in
Johannesburg.  Consumer Stocks  An  index  of emerging-market consumer discretionary stocks
advanced 0.7 percent, the most of any of 10 industry groups in
the MSCI gauge.  “The chatter in markets has quickly changed from gloom
scenarios to a reflection on how unreasonably cheap emerging-
market equities have become,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at
Troika Dialog in Moscow, said in an e-mail to clients.  The developing nation gauge has advanced 4.4 percent this
year, compared with a 5.7 percent gain in the MSCI World Index.
Shares in the  emerging-markets  index are trading at 10.2  times
estimated earnings , compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
12.4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. financial
markets were closed today for the Fourth of July holiday.  The  Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index  of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps added one basis
point to 277, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 364, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  