-- Energy Corridors Plan Must Be Revised by U.S. Agencies
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-04T00:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/energy-corridors-plan-must-be-revised-by-u-s-agencies.html
U.S. agencies including the Bureau of
Land Management must revise a plan to designate corridors for
oil, natural gas and hydrogen pipelines and electricity
transmission facilities, according to a settlement.  Required revisions to the plan for “West-wide Energy
Corridors,” which connect  power plants  to the electric grid in
the western U.S., are described in the settlement between
environmental organizations and the federal agencies filed today
in federal court in San Francisco.  Future changes to the system of corridors must follow
“general principles,” including facilitating renewable energy
projects, avoiding environmentally sensitive areas, reducing the
number of “rights-of-way” crossings, and improving long term
benefits of reliable and safe energy transmission, according to
the filing.  The settlement “puts federal agencies and potential
developers on notice that certain corridors are no-go areas for
environmental reasons,” Nada Culver, a senior director of
agency policy and planning at the Wilderness Society, said in a
statement. “We should guide  power lines  and pipelines to the
right places, along with advancing better priorities such as
supporting renewable energy.”  The settlement stems from a lawsuit groups including the
Wilderness Society filed in 2009 claiming the plan violated
federal environmental laws, including the Energy Policy Act of
2005. Other agencies in the agreement are the U.S. Forest
Service and Department of Energy.  The case is Wilderness Society v. U.S. Department of the
Interior, 09-3048, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  