-- Engro to Make Fertilizer Overseas as Gas Crisis Curbs Production
-- B y   N a w e e n   A .   M a n g i
-- 2012-07-04T19:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/engro-to-make-fertilizer-overseas-as-gas-crisis-curbs-production.html
Engro Corp. (ENGRO) , Pakistan’s second-
biggest business group, will expand food and energy production
and make fertilizer overseas to reverse a slide in earnings as a
record energy crisis curbs operations at home.  Engro’s fertilizer business is constrained by the shortage
of gas in Pakistan, and it “makes no sense” to put in further
capacity in the South Asian nation, Chief Executive Officer
Muhammad Aliuddin Ansari said in an interview in Karachi
yesterday. The company is “working with the government” to
tackle the problem, he said.  Engro, which recorded its first quarterly  net loss  in the
three months ended March 31, spent $1.1 billion to build a
fertilizer plant in the southern city of Daharki that opened 18
months ago as demand for crop nutrients expands in rural
 Pakistan . The company aims to produce the chemicals in gas-rich
nations as the fuel shortfall cuts production. Demand for gas in
Pakistan, where farming employs more than 45 percent of the
workforce, exceeds output by as much as 15 percent, according to
the central bank.  “The company’s biggest challenge is gas supply,” said
Farrukh Hussain, who oversees $80 million in stocks and bonds as
chief investment officer at BMA Asset Management Co. in Karachi.
“If this bottleneck is cleared up and the company is able to
get even somewhat less than the agreed gas allocation, Engro is
a king in the market.”  Engro’s  shares  have surged 46 percent this year compared
with a 27 percent advance in the benchmark KSE100 index. The
stock fell 1 percent to 104.01 rupees on the Karachi Stock
Exchange yesterday.  Gas Fields  Pakistan’s government has decided “in principle” to grant
Engro Fertilizer the Reti-Maru and the Sara West gas fields in
southern Pakistan and the company has asked for the remainder of
its gas allocation to be given from the Latif gas field, Ansari
said. All three fields are located in the southern province of
Sindh, within 60 miles of Engro’s plant in Daharki. “We’re
waiting for the final yes or no,” he said.  Once the gas issue is resolved, the group plans to hold an
initial share sale for its fertilizer company, he said.  Engro, which produces urea, dairy products and plastics,
posted a  net loss  of 649.5 million rupees ($6.87 million) in the
three months ended March 31, compared with a profit of 2.1
billion rupees a year ago, because of lower urea sales and
financial costs.  The first-quarter results were “behind plan,” said
Ansari, 49, who took over as CEO in May. “The fertilizer
business isn’t going to have a spectacular year but the food
business is going to do very well.”  New Products  Engro Foods, the nation’s biggest producer of packaged milk
with a 45 percent share of the market and a quarter of the ice
cream trade, may introduce as many as 13 new products and lines,
Ansari said. The food business may become the largest segment by
profit and sales and will be the dominant area in the next five
years, he said.  Engro Fertilizer has 67 billion rupees in debt, according
to Ansari. The company has kept its commitments on loan
repayments so far “but debt can’t be serviced in the current
structure if we don’t get the gas,” he said.  Engro plans to build a factory in North Africa within the
next two years and will seek partners to invest between $500
million and $1 billion, Ansari said, without giving details. In
 Algeria , Engro is considering setting up a urea plant and is
evaluating Tunisia and  Morocco  for a factory producing di-
ammonium phosphate, a type of fertilizer, he said. Fertilizer
produced at overseas plants would be shipped abroad.  Gas Surplus  “There are large gas surpluses in Algeria and we’re also
looking at Tunisia and Morocco,” Ansari said. “We’ve analyzed
Central Asia and in  East Africa  we’re very interested in
 Mozambique .”  The Sindh Engro Coal Mining Co., 60 percent owned by Engro
and the rest by the provincial government, plans to develop a
 coal mine  with an investment of $1.3 billion, he said. The
company has 2 billion tons of certified coal reserves in the
south-eastern Thar desert and was granted a mining license three
months ago. The mine will take 3 years to develop.  The company will raise 70 percent of the financing through
Chinese government institutions and the rest will be invested by
the Sindh provincial government and partners brought in by Engro,
Ansari said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naween A. Mangi in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Nmangi1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 