-- Merkel Meeting Hollande Evokes Adenauer Ghost Castigating Losers
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n   a n d   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2012-07-04T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/merkel-meeting-hollande-evokes-adenauer-ghost-castigating-losers.html
As Germany emerged from the rubble of
World War II, Chancellor Konrad Adenauer said nothing was more
important than uniting with former enemy  France  to ensure peace
and deter the  Soviet Union .  “ Europe  can’t close its eyes to the danger of our time,”
Adenauer said in 1950 as he worked with French statesmen Robert Schuman and Jean Monnet on the pact that later turned into the
European Union that now binds 27 nations together.  Current German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President  Francois Hollande , who meet in France next week to
commemorate the 50th anniversary of official Franco-German
reconciliation, are under pressure to heed those words. The two
leaders, trying to solve the biggest economic crisis facing
Europe in more than 60 years, aren’t passing the test, said Drew Scott, a professor of EU studies at the  University of Edinburgh .  While Hollande’s and Merkel’s predecessors were confronted
with as many as 14 million German refugees, scores of cities
flattened by bombs and the menace of the Soviets, the current
generation of leaders oversees the second-richest region in the
world after North America. Their failure to take the necessary
measures to guarantee the euro’s survival is in stark contrast
to Europe’s postwar period.  “The decisive action that was taken after World War II is
inconceivable now,” Scott said. “Prevarication, uncertainty,
kicking the can down the road are all hallmarks of the crisis
and it’s become a soap opera of economic calamity.”  Indebted Nations  Adenauer worked with the French to set in train the pacts
and institutions that helped put the shattered continent back
together. Those are now jeopardized by disputes over how to save
the 17-nation  euro  bloc as investors turn on southern nations
that exceed debt and deficit limits, endangering banks, pushing
up yields and angering German voters unwilling to bail them out.  Ten-year bond yields ranging from 1.5 percent for  Germany 
to 25 percent for  Greece  show that markets are betting on
European economies drifting apart.  While last week’s summit in the EU’s basecamp of Brussels,
the 19th in a little more than two years, sparked a global
market rally as leaders found common ground on providing Spain
and  Italy  with short-term aid, Europe’s premiers and presidents
are riven by splits over such ideas as bonds issued jointly by
countries sharing the euro.  “You need extraordinary leaders in a crisis like this, but
you won’t find many people in the world who are looking to
Brussels for the way out of this crisis,” said Fredrik Erixon,
head of the European Centre for International Political Economy
in the Belgian capital.  Euro Bonds  Merkel, the seventh German leader to succeed Adenauer,
repeated her opposition to euro bonds after 13 1/2 hours of
talks in Brussels on the night of June 29 as she tried to keep
the faith of an electorate jaded by its role as Europe’s
paymaster. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , 69, countered
that euro bonds are needed to shore up a European project that
has put an end to centuries of armed conflict in Western Europe.  Merkel complained June 16 about Greece holding other
countries “hostage” by threatening to renege on bailout
agreements. Sixty percent of Germans want Greece to exit the
single currency, up from 49 percent in November, a ZDF
television survey on May 25 showed.  “The current generation of European leaders may be an
uninspired one, lacking in what the elder President Bush called
‘The Vision Thing,’”  Ray Douglas , a professor of history at
Colgate University in Hamilton,  New York , said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “They are a faithful reflection of the
ambivalence of their electorates.”  German Refugees  Douglas is the author of “Orderly and Humane: The
Expulsion of the Germans after the Second World War,” published
this year. It describes how Germany had to cope with an influx
of 12 million to 14 million German-speaking refugees, mainly
from eastern Europe. Between 500,000 and 1.5 million were killed
or died of disease.  Adenauer, the German leader from 1949 to 1963, pushed for
European unity, reconciliation with France after three wars from
1870 and 1945 and ties with the U.S. buttressed by the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization.  Other statesmen shaping the era included British Prime
Minister  Winston Churchill , U.S. Secretary of State George C. Marshall, whose  Marshall Plan  gave $13 billion worth of aid to
rebuild Europe, and later John F. Kennedy, whose 1963 speech in
West Berlin as U.S. president set the tone for galvanizing
Europe during the  Cold War .  Piecemeal Steps  “You need somebody to make a speech in Berlin and say ‘Ich
bin ein European,’” said Bill Dinning, head of global strategy
at investment company Kames Capital in Edinburgh. “Somebody
leading people into something they’re afraid of, but something
that is actually in their best interests. If they don’t, they’ll
throw away 67 years of progress.”  The progress has so far been achieved piecemeal rather than
through one grand vision, as decisions are typically made
collectively rather than by a political chief, and often are
subject to national approval.  Negotiations on a revised EU accord, known as the Lisbon
Treaty, began in 2001. It went into effect eight years later
after all countries had ratified the plan. Ireland had to vote
twice after voters rejected the pact the first time.  The bloc has grown into 27 countries spanning from the
Atlantic to the Black Sea since West Germany, France, Italy,
 Belgium , the Netherlands and Luxembourg signed the Treaty of
 Rome  in 1957. Seventeen of the nations have adopted the euro
since its arrival in 1999, cementing monetary ties.  Different Age  “European leaders now have to bring people on board and
it’s with backroom negotiations rather than tub-thumping,”
Robert Gildea, professor of modern history at Oxford University,
said in a telephone interview. “We aren’t in a world war
crisis, but we are in a serious crisis. The European leader now
has a different image, a different cut.”  EU President Herman van Rompuy and European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  represent that style. The former Belgian
and Portuguese prime ministers came to their posts after
European governments compromised on candidates.  “Van Rompuy was given a task not to shine, not to take air
time from other leaders and not to trespass on their turf,”
said Erixon at the research center in Brussels.  With Germany paying the single biggest share of the
international bailouts for Greece, Ireland, Portugal and now
Spain and Cyprus, Merkel is insisting on deeper spending cuts
and revamped  labor laws  for indebted nations. Investor and
philanthropist  George Soros  said in a June 24 Bloomberg
television interview that she is a “strong leader” going in
the “wrong direction.”  ‘Zero Leadership’  German taxpayers are on the hook for about 211 billion
euros, or 27 percent of the commitments made to the European
Financial Stability Facility.  “There’s no longer European leadership like in the age of
Churchill or de Gaulle,” said Shada Islam, an analyst at the
Friends of Europe policy-advisory group in Brussels. “Everybody
is looking out for their own short-term interests. We’re living
in a world of G-Zero: zero leadership.”  When investors look back in 10 years, Hollande might be the
one who emerged as the promoter of an economic revival in Europe
by pressing for less budget austerity, Gildea said. Scott, the
Edinburgh professor, said it may be Italy’s Monti who leads the
region from crisis because he has the ear of EU bureaucrats
after serving as a European commissioner for almost 10 years.  Risks Deepen  Fixing the euro requires giving up local political
interests for the greater cause and embracing pan-regional
borrowing and a further writeoff of Greek debt, according to
Dinning, the strategist in Edinburgh whose company is part of
Dutch insurer  Aegon NV (AGN)  and oversees 50 billion pounds ($78.5
billion) of assets. Without that, the danger is the euro region
might “drift into chaos,” he said.  Today isn’t comparable with what leaders had to do to put
Europe back together after World War II, according to Jan Techau, director of the European Center of the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in Brussels.  Under Adenauer, West Germany became one of the six founding
members of the EU a little more than a decade after the Nazis
were defeated and the country was in tatters. The nation’s
export-driven economy boomed, slashing unemployment by the mid-
1950s and facilitating the settlement of refugees, Douglas
writes in  his book , according to an online preview.  “For real leadership you need a feeling of a mortal
threat, both in the electorate and the elite, and they don’t
have it yet in Europe,” Techau said during a visit to Berlin.
“It could be that we have this leadership and it’s only for the
later generation to decide if we had greatness. The audience of
the present is usually the worst judge.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net 
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  