-- Etihad Quarterly Sales Climb 31% as Partnerships Boost Travelers
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-07-04T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/etihad-quarterly-sales-climb-31-as-partnerships-boost-travelers.html
Etihad Airways , the Middle East’s
third-largest carrier, said second-quarter revenue climbed 31
percent as partnerships with other airlines boosted passenger
traffic.  Revenue rose to $1.25 billion from $957 million a year
earlier, the Abu Dhabi-based airline said in an e-mailed
statement today, without providing a number for earnings.
Passenger numbers increased 34 percent to 2.55 million in the
period with average seat factor, or percentage of seats filled,
rising 4.6 percentage points to 77.6 percent.  “In a quarter when many airlines have seen demand
softening, we have been able to add more passengers than ever
before, with growth outstripping our capacity increases,” Chief
Executive Officer  James Hogan  said in the statement. “We remain
focused and on track to deliver profitability for the full
year.”  Etihad competes at home with Dubai-based Emirates, the
largest airline by international traffic. Emirates is building
the world’s biggest fleet of Airbus SAS superjumbos to establish
Dubai as a long-haul travel hub. Neighboring Doha is also
competing for market share as Qatar Airways Ltd., the region’s
second-largest carrier, grows its fleet with $50 billion worth
of aircraft on order.  State-owned Etihad posted its first-ever profit last year,
achieving net income of $14 million. Code-share deals and
partnerships fed 800,000 passengers into Etihad’s network in the
first half, adding $281 million in revenue, it said. Codeshare
deals allow the airline to sell tickets on flights operated by
its partners.  In the quarter, Etihad raised its stake in  Virgin Australia
Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  to 4.99 percent and said it targeted a 10 percent
holding over time. The airline also accumulated a 2.99 percent
stake in Dublin-based  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , and minority
holdings in  Air Berlin Plc (AB1)  and Air Seychelles Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  