-- European Stocks Are Little Changed; Iberdrola Shares Fall
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-07-04T15:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/european-stock-futures-little-changed-asian-shares-gain.html
European stocks  were little changed
as speculation that central banks will ease monetary policy
offset service-industry measures in the U.K. and Germany that
missed economists’ forecasts.  Iberdrola (IBE)  SA tumbled 5.6 percent as utilities dropped. Chr.
Hansen A/S, the maker of natural food colors and cheese
cultures, climbed 12 percent after reporting earnings that
exceeded estimates.  Societe Television Francaise 1 (TFI)  advanced
after  UBS AG (UBSN)  advised buying the shares.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped less than 0.1 percent to
257.33 in  London , after rallying 5.2 percent over the previous
three days. The gauge is still on course for a fifth straight
week of gains, the longest stretch since January, as European
leaders agreed to address flaws in their bailout programs to
ease the sovereign-debt crisis and speculation grew that central
banks will take steps to boost the economy.  “Seeing equities fall back after a 7 percent rise as a
result of the summit meeting last week suggests that common
sense is returning to the market,” said Henrik Drusebjerg, a
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “If investors are
hoping that tomorrow’s central bank meetings will see
initiatives on top of lowering  interest rates , they will be
disappointed.”  The  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  will
announce interest-rate decisions tomorrow. ECB officials will
cut their  benchmark rate  by 25 basis points to a record low 0.75
percent, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 62 economists. Five predict a cut of 50 basis points and 11
foresee no change.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes fell in 10 of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX slipped 0.2 percent, while
France’s CAC 40 and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 each lost 0.1 percent.  The number of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 38 percent less than the average over the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. equity markets
were closed for the Independence Day holiday today.  A U.K.  gauge of services activity  based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  fell to 51.3 in June, an eight-month low,
from 53.3 in May, Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply  said. The median forecast of 25
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a reading of 52.9. A
measure above 50 indicates expansion.  A German services PMI dropped to 49.9 last month from 51.8
in May, according to a separate report from Markit.  U.S. Payrolls  A report on July 6 is forecast to show that U.S. employers
added 90,000 people to payrolls in June, after a gain of 69,000
in May, according to a Bloomberg survey of 78 economists. Alcoa
Inc., America’s biggest aluminum producer, is due to kick off
the U.S. earnings-reporting season on July 9.  “If the U.S. non-farm figures on Friday add to the
disappointing figures that we have seen this week it would
confirm that the U.S. slowdown is really happening,” Nordea’s
Drusebjerg said.  The Stoxx 600 had climbed to the highest level since May 3
after European policy makers eased repayment rules for Spanish
banks, relaxed conditions for possible aid to  Italy  and unveiled
a $149 billion economic growth plan.  “The measures to support growth and help the banks via the
European Stability Mechanism are a step in the right direction
but we are a long way from finding a solution,” said Felicity Smith, a  fund manager  at Bedlam Asset Management Plc in London.
“The markets are waiting to see some concrete steps.”  Iberdrola Drops  Iberdrola, an owner of wind parks from Europe to the U.S.,
sank 5.6 percent to 3.52 euros as a measure of utilities in the
Stoxx 600 retreated 0.5 percent.  Chr. Hansen climbed 12 percent to 171.6 kroner in
Copenhagen, the biggest gain since the shares started trading in
June 2010. The company reported third-quarter earnings before
interest and taxes that exceeded estimates and raised its full-
year forecasts.  TF1 advanced 3.5 percent to 6.76 euros. UBS upgraded the
owner of France’s most-watched television channel to buy, saying
the shares look cheap.  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the broadcaster controlled by former Italian
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , advanced 5.6 percent to 1.46
euros. The stock climbed following an Il Sole report that RTL
Group and Al-Jazeera are seeking a partnership with the company
for  pay television .  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s largest publicly traded hedge
fund, lost 4.7 percent to 67.55 pence, the lowest price since
October 1999, as the net asset value of its Man AHL Diversified
fund decreased 2.5 percent last week.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its price estimate for the shares
to 45 pence from 110 pence, saying the company’s second-quarter
performance was disappointing. The brokerage kept its neutral
recommendation on Man.  EON AG dropped 1.6 percent to 16.92 euros after analysts
downgraded the shares.  Germany ’s biggest utility was cut to
neutral from overweight at JPMorgan, while Citigroup Inc.
reduced its recommendation to sell from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  