-- Eurotunnel Heads Back to Future With Ferry Acquisition
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n   a n d   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-07-04T22:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/eurotunnel-heads-back-to-future-with-ferry-acquisition.html
When the  Channel Tunnel  rail link
between Britain and  France  opened in May 1994, prospects for
shipping routes between the two countries looked bleak.  More than 18 years on and  Groupe Eurotunnel SA (GET)  is spending
65 million euros ($82 million) buying three roll-on roll-off
ferries as its rail shuttles struggle to lure heavy-truck
traffic and freight-train volumes remain below targeted levels.  The purchase, from a defunct arm of French railroad SNCF,
aims to win 9 percent of cross-Channel truck and car traffic,
Eurotunnel Chief Executive Officer Jacques Gounon said. The 
move will also allow the Paris-based company, which already 
has about 40 percent of the market, to tap a trend toward 
“mega trucks” that are becoming too large for its trains.  “There’s an evolution in traffic, notably towards heavy
goods vehicles, which can’t be fully captured by the Channel
Tunnel,” Gounon said in an interview. “I’m thinking of very
long and heavy trucks that face difficulties getting on our
shuttles, plus things like dangerous materials, which have
always been excluded.”  The Paris Commercial Court accepted a bid for the Berlioz,
Rodin and Nord-Pas-de-Calais vessels on June 11 after Eurotunnel
pitched a proposal that aims to “recreate some activity” after
the collapse of SNCF’s  SeaFrance  unit in January rather than
simply seeking to secure a “good deal,” Gounon said.  Employee Payoff  The service will operate between Calais, also the site of
the Channel Tunnel’s French portal, and Dover, about 10 miles
from Folkestone, where the subsea link emerges into  England .  Sailings will commence once SNCF has distributed 25,000
euros in severance pay to each SeaFrance employee, with the cash
to be used to establish a workers’ cooperative that will lease
the ships from Eurotunnel, which will in turn buy capacity and
market it to clients, Gounon said in Paris.  The venture will employ 500 people in France and another
100 in England and should break even within 18 months, he said.  According to Eurotunnel’s strategy, the shipping arm will
complement its rail shuttle, with trucks directed onto ferries
in the event of tunnel traffic being restricted, and vice versa.  That will avoid diverting customers to companies such as
 P&O Ferries , which claims a 35 percent share of the Dover-Calais
market and “is one of our major competitors,” Gounon said.  Cheap Solution  “Since SeaFrance disappeared things have become simpler
for Eurotunnel and their market share has increased considerably,”
said Jean-Baptiste Roussille, an analyst at  Societe Generale  in 
Paris with a “buy” rating on Eurotunnel. “It’s a rather cheap way 
to try to balance competition in this market.”  Still, Britain’s  Office of Fair Trading  said yesterday in a
statement that it’s considering whether Eurotunnel’s acquisition
of SeaFrance assets creates a merger situation that might result
in a “substantial lessening of competition” in U.K. markets.  P&O spokeswoman Michelle Ulyatt said in an e-mail that the
company hasn’t seen full details of Eurotunnel’s proposals but
is “concerned that a level playing field is preserved.”  In addition to P&O, a unit of  Dubai World  that offers 23
90-minute return sailings a day with six ships, the new business
will compete with Danish ferry operator  DFDS A/S , which began
operating between Dover and Calais in February in a venture with
Louis Dreyfus Armateurs after failing to buy SeaFrance assets.  Gounon said in the interview that Eurotunnel at no stage
expected to kill off the ferry companies, and that developments
in European logistics may push more business in their direction.  Rules Relaxed  Britain in December began a 10-year trial allowing trucks 7
feet longer than the current 16.75-meter (55 feet) limit onto
its roads, while European Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas
last month opened the way for cross-border operations with 25-
meter, 60 metric-ton vehicles between consenting  member states .  Larger wagons are already permitted in  Finland ,  Denmark ,
the Netherlands and  Sweden , which is trialing a 30-meter limit.  “Mega trucks will have a massive impact on rail freight,”
said Philippa Edmunds, who heads the Freight on Rail campaign
group. “There’ll effectively be no upper limit on length.”  Eurotunnel’s SeaFrance initiative is one of several that
the company is pursuing to help increase tunnel usage.  Gounon purchased GB Railfreight in 2010 to help boost rail-
freight flows that were languishing two-thirds below a 1998 peak
and reduce Eurotunnel’s reliance on cargo flows from train
operators such as SNCF, and the company is working with
EuroCarex, which groups French, Belgian and Dutch airports, on a
project to run mail trains through the tunnel at night.  SNCF’s “catastrophic” abandonment of wagon-load rail
freight means Eurotunnel still faces an uphill task in
maintaining overall cargo volumes, the CEO said, with the market
having accounted for around 40 percent of the total.  Eurotunnel shares have gained 25 percent this year, valuing
the company at 3.67 billion euros, as passenger express
operators Eurostar Group Ltd. and Deutsche Bahn AG develop plans
to connect  London  with Amsterdam, Cologne and  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  