-- Euro-Area June Manufacturing, Services Output Contracts
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-07-04T09:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/euro-area-june-manufacturing-services-output-contracts.html
Services and manufacturing output
shrank in June for a fifth month in the euro area and services
unexpectedly contracted in  Germany , adding to signs of a
deepening economic slump in the second quarter.  A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries in the 17-nation euro area rose to 46.4 from
May, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s above an
initial estimate of 46 published on June 21. In Germany, a gauge
of  service industries  dropped to 49.9, below an estimate of
50.3. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Europe’s economy probably contracted in the second quarter
as budget cuts eroded consumer demand and prompted companies to
eliminate jobs. In  China , services industries expanded in June
at the slowest pace in 10 months, a report showed today. The
European Central Bank tomorrow may lower borrowing costs to a
record, according to a Bloomberg survey, after worsening turmoil
forced  Spain  and Cyprus last month to seek external aid.  “This is another very weak report,” said  Howard Archer ,
chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . “It
appears that the euro zone suffered renewed and appreciable
gross domestic product contraction in the second quarter.”  The euro traded at $1.2580 at 10:32 a.m. in  Frankfurt , down
0.2 percent on the day. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index decreased 0.5
percent, with Germany’s DAX benchmark down 0.6 percent.  Budget Gaps  The euro has declined 3.9 percent over the past two months
as the worsening debt turmoil forced Spain to seek external aid
of as much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion) for its banking
system. Cyprus last week became the fifth euro-area nation to
ask for a bailout after Ireland,  Greece ,  Portugal  and Spain.  Governments across the region are struggling to plug their
budget gaps and restore investor confidence as the economic
slump deepens. At least seven euro economies are already in
recession and Germany, Europe’s largest, which helped the
single-currency zone avert a contraction in the first quarter,
is also cooling.  German  investor confidence  dropped the most in 14 years in
June and executives also grew more pessimistic. Euro-area
economic sentiment slumped to the lowest in more than 2 1/2
years last month and unemployment surged to a record of 11.1
percent in May from 11 percent in the previous month.  ‘Huge Drop’  “Job losses are mounting as a result of falling demand, as
companies seek to reduce costs and prepare for the possibility
that worse is to come,”  Chris Williamson , chief economist at
Markit, said in a statement. “Service-sector companies’
expectations for the year ahead showed one of the largest
declines in the history of the survey, pointing to a huge drop
in confidence due to the worsening political and economic
crises.”  Economists at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt estimate that the
euro-region economy probably contracted 0.25 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, when it stalled.  “The relentless decline in the sentiment indicators
suggest that the euro zone’s recession will persist over the
summer,” economists including  Christoph Weil  wrote in a note on
June 28. “Whether the worst will be over by the autumn depends
on the further course of the sovereign debt crisis.”  ‘More Difficult’  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said on June 29 that
leaders “didn’t close any doors” on short-term measures to
calm markets. He said they will be discussed in the coming weeks
and euro-region finance chiefs should reach final agreement on
July 9.  Martin Winterkorn , chief executive officer of Germany’s
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , said on June 25 that “the second half of 2012 is
certain to become more difficult and challenging” for the
industry. Commerzbank CEO  Martin Blessing  said last week that a
“swift end to the euro crisis is not in sight.”  European exporters may struggle to maintain their sales
growth as economies around the world are showing signs of
slowdown. China’s purchasing managers’ index released today by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit fell to 52.3 in June from a 19-
month high of 54.7 in May. That’s the largest drop since August.
China’s official manufacturing PMI in June was 50.2, signaling a
slower expansion for a second month.  ECB Cut  In the U.S., manufacturing unexpectedly contracted in June
for the first time since the world’s largest economy emerged
from recession three years ago. Federal Reserve policy makers
have said they’re ready to take more steps should the U.S.
expansion slacken.  The ECB last month lowered its euro-area growth forecast
for 2013 to 1 percent from 1.1 percent and said the economy may
shrink 0.1 percent in 2012. President  Mario Draghi  said on that
day that “a few” council members had opted to lower the
benchmark  interest rate  from 1 percent.  Fifty-one out of 62 economists in a Bloomberg survey
forecast the central bank to cut the benchmark interest rate
tomorrow, with the rest predicting an unchanged rate. The ECB
has held interest rates on hold since cutting them twice in the
fourth quarter of 2011 to bolster the economy.  “They will likely cut rates probably by 25 basis points. I
think that there’s a real need here to provide an element of
stimulus and if they stay on hold, I think the market may get a
little bit nervous,” John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at
Oppenheimer & Co. Inc. told Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” yesterday. “The recession for  Europe 
is something they’re already experiencing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  