-- Everbright Bank Said to Plan $1.8 Billion Share Sale
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2012-07-04T04:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/everbright-bank-said-to-plan-1-8-billion-share-sale.html
China Everbright Bank Co. (601818) , which
scrapped a Hong Kong stock offering last year, is lining up
investors to buy as much as half of a $1.8 billion share sale
that may take place as soon as this month, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The so-called cornerstone investors may buy about $900
million of the shares sold in Hong Kong, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
Not all of the investors have signed binding agreements yet,
according to another person with knowledge of the offering.  Everbright, which is already  traded in Shanghai , plans to
sell about 4 billion new shares, the people said. The Beijing-
based bank will decide in the next few days whether to conduct
the offering this month or wait until September, they said.  A spokesman for Everbright’s board office in Beijing
declined to comment on the share-sale plan.  Cornerstone investors typically agree to hold the stock for
six months in return for a guaranteed allocation. A sale of 4
billion shares would raise about $1.8 billion, based on the
lender’s closing price of 2.83  yuan  in  Shanghai  yesterday.  Hong Kong  had its slowest first half since 2009 for initial
share sales amid concerns about  China ’s slowdown and  Europe ’s
debt crisis. Companies raised $4.1 billion in the six months
through June via first-time sales in the city, down 72 percent
from the same period last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Everbright shelved a $6 billion share-sale plan in Hong
Kong last August. The lender had aimed to sell 10.5 billion
shares at the time, according to a term sheet sent to investors
on June 14, 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  