-- Ex-News Corp. Hacker Must Give Details, Court Rules
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-07-04T11:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/ex-news-corp-hacker-must-give-details-supreme-court-rules-2-.html
The former  News Corp. (NWSA)  private
detective at the center of the phone-hacking scandal lost a U.K.
Supreme Court ruling over his bid to withhold evidence in civil
lawsuits that might incriminate him in a criminal case.  Glenn Mulcaire , who was jailed in 2007 for intercepting
voice mail for the News of the World tabloid, can’t use his
right against self-incrimination because the case involves
intellectual property, such as commercial information that may
have been left on mobile-phone messages he accessed, Britain’s
top court ruled today in London.  The judgment upheld an appeals court ruling that Mulcaire
must disclose who instructed him to intercept messages left for
 Nicola Phillips , who worked for celebrity publicist  Max Clifford , and what information he obtained. Dozens of people
have filed similar lawsuits and News Corp. has spent more than
$258 million in legal fees and settlements.  The ruling will apply to “many other cases” where
victims’ voice mails may have contained “commercially sensitive
information,”  Mark Lewis , Phillips’s lawyer, who also
represents other victims, said outside court. Mulcaire has two
or three weeks to supply the requested information, he said.  “I will consider with my lawyers what the wider
implications of this judgment are if and when I am asked to
answer such questions in other cases,” Mulcaire said in a
statement handed out by his lawyer  Sarah Webb  after the hearing.  Bribery Arrests  The judgment was issued about 30 minutes before the
 Metropolitan Police Service  in London said it arrested three
more people in a related probe into bribery by News Corp.’s U.K.
titles, including its best-selling Sun daily tabloid.  News Corp. closed the News of the World in July 2011 to
help contain public anger over the scandal after the  Guardian
newspaper  reported a year ago today that the tabloid had hacked
the messages of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler in 2002. That
story triggered public outrage that wasn’t expressed for News
Corp.’s celebrity victims, such as British actor Jude Law.  Phillips also wants to know what information Mulcaire
collected from her messages and to whom he gave it. The ruling
today could lead to a settlement of the case, and most lawsuits
are expected to be resolved before a trial, Lewis said today.  The judgment, while a win for victims, narrowed what type
of information in voice-mail messages may be considered
intellectual property and may apply to fewer such lawsuits,
Mulcaire said in the statement.  Mulcaire, Goodman  Mulcaire and  Clive Goodman , a reporter for the News of the
World, pleaded guilty in 2006 and were jailed the next year for
hacking voice mail for members of Prince Charles’s staff. News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International, argued for years that the
practice had been limited to the men, until evidence in civil
lawsuits showed it was widespread and triggered a new police
probe.  Former News International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks, who was charged in May, and  Andy Coulson , a former
editor who later worked as press chief for U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron , have been arrested in the criminal probes. Both
have denied the claims.  Mulcaire, who was arrested again in December and hasn’t
been charged, successfully sued the company over claims it
improperly stopped covering his legal fees after lawmakers
questioned the payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  