-- Mexico’s Jugos del Valle Seeks to Buy Dairy Maker Santa Clara
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-07-04T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/mexico-s-jugos-del-valle-seeks-to-buy-dairy-maker-santa-clara.html
Jugos del Valle SAPI , a juicemaker
partly owned by  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , plans to acquire dairy company
 Santa Clara  Mercantil de Pachuca SA, according to a filing with
Mexico’s antitrust regulator.  The board of the Federal Competition Commission will meet
July 5 to review the transaction, according to the  filing  on the
agency’s website. Jugos del Valle’s part owners also include
 Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL) , the largest Coke bottler in  Latin America ,
and other Coke bottlers.  “We recently reached an agreement with the Santa Clara
company to carry out an operation together,” Mexico City-based
Jugos del Valle said in a statement yesterday when contacted
about the nature of the transaction. Financial terms were not
disclosed.  Jugos del Valle said it is unable to release information or
comment on the transaction while regulatory approval is pending,
according to an e-mailed statement. Calls seeking comment from
Alejandro Malagon, Chief Executive Officer of Jugos del Valle,
were not returned.  The purchase of closely-held Santa Clara, based in Pachuca,
Mexico, would add milk, ice cream and yogurt to the fruit juices
that Jugos del Valle has sold since its founding in  1947 . A deal
could also add to the product line of Oxxo, Latin America’s
largest convenience store chain. Oxxo is owned by Monterrey,
Mexico-based  Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB (FEMSAUBD) , which holds a
controlling stake in Coca-Cola Femsa.  Santa Clara, founded in the central Mexican city of Pachuca
in 1924, has 160 ice cream parlors across the country, according
to the company’s  website .  Coca-Cola and Coca-Cola Femsa bought Jugos del Valle in
2007. Atlanta-based Coca-Cola sold the juicemaker’s U.S.
operations, according to a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission by Mexico City-based Coca-Cola Femsa. In
2008, Coca-Cola and Coca-Cola Femsa entered into a joint
business with Mexican and Brazilian Coke bottlers for the
juicemaker’s operations in the two Latin American countries.  Calls made to Santa Clara’s headquarters seeking comment
were not returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in  Mexico  City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net  