-- Exxon Mobil Said to Explore Sale of German Gas Stations
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-05T15:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/exxon-mobil-said-to-explore-sale-of-german-esso-gas-stations.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
biggest energy company by market value, is weighing a sale of
its German Esso gas station chain, according to people familiar
with the process.  The unit, which includes more than 1,100 gas stations in
 Germany , may fetch more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion),
said two of the people, who asked not to be identified because
talks are private. Exxon is in preliminary talks with multiple
parties, two or three of which may be from  Russia  or eastern
Europe, people said. No final decision on a sale has been made.  Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson has divested almost one-third of
the company’s filling stations during the past four years to
exit markets where fuel demand is stagnating or declining, and
has focused investment on higher-profit oil wells and chemical
production. Exxon’s portfolio of owned or leased filling
stations fell to 7,753 as of Dec. 31 from 11,446 at the end of
2007, according to a company statement.  “The trend in  Europe  is for companies to focus their
retail and refinery businesses,” said Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg analyst Achim Wittmann, who recommends investors
hold Exxon shares. “In the upstream sector you have higher
returns on investment, coupled with an increase in needed
spending as reserves are depleted.”  In 2010, Exxon Mobil agreed to sell its downstream
activities in  Austria  to  Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s largest oil producer,
which gained a retail network with 135 service stations. In
March last year, the U.S. company agreed to sell Argentine
assets including a refinery and gas stations to Bridas Corp.,
the  oil company  part-owned by China National Offshore Oil Corp.  Exxon sold gas storage sites in Germany that it owned with
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to French utility  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  last year.
The value of that transaction was almost 1 billion euros, two
people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Exxon’s profit margin from refining and selling motor fuels
was 1.3 percent in 2011, compared with a 74 percent margin from
pumping oil and natural gas, and 10 percent from its chemical
business, according to company reports.  “Having the whole value chain can help, that’s why we see
some companies holding on to parts of their downstream
operations,” said Wittmann. “The market is so saturated that I
don’t know if those kinds of assets would be attractive.”  Exxon Mobil Central Europe Holding GmbH, the Hamburg-based
holding company that includes the German business, had 2011
sales of 12.8 billion euros and operating profit before taxes
and interest of 856 million euros, according to its website. The
business includes oil, natural gas and refineries as well as
1,103 gas stations, according to the  website .  An Exxon Mobil Central Europe spokeswoman, Gabriele Radke,
declined to comment on any possible process.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  