-- Federer Plays Djokovic, Murray Faces Tsonga in Wimbledon Semis
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/federer-plays-djokovic-murray-faces-tsonga-in-wimbledon-semis.html
Six-time Wimbledon winner  Roger Federer  will play defending champion Novak Djokovic in the
semifinals of the tennis tournament after both won in straight
sets yesterday.  Andy Murray  will meet Jo-Wilfried Tsonga.  Showing no signs of the back injury he’d struggled with in
the previous round, the third-seeded Federer of Switzerland
defeated No. 26 seed  Mikhail Youzhny  of Russia, 6-1, 6-2, 6-2 on
Centre Court at the All England Club. Their match was watched by
 Prince William  and the Duchess of Cambridge from the royal box.  “Obviously it feels great being back in the semis,”
Federer said after he’d clinched the match with a backhand
volley and won the point on his first serve 88 percent of the
time. “Haven’t been there in the last couple years,” added
Federer, who had lost in the quarterfinals the past two times.  Djokovic beat the 31st-seeded Florian Mayer of  Germany , 6-
4, 6-1, 6-4, on Court 1.  Murray overcame Spain’s No. 7 seed  David Ferrer  in a three
hour, 52 minute contest full of long baseline exchanges, 6-7 (5-
7), 7-6 (8-6), 6-4, 7-6 (7-4) on Centre Court.  No. 4 seed Murray, who has now tied fellow Briton Tim Henman with four Wimbledon semifinals, is trying to become the
first British man to win the tournament in 76 years. No. 5 seed
Tsonga of France moved to his second straight semifinal by
beating Germany’s No. 27 seed Philipp Kohlschreiber, 7-6 (7-5),
4-6, 7-6 (7-3), 6-2 on Court 1. Murray leads Tsonga 5-1 in
career meetings.  Stepped Up Pace  Today, Germany’s No. 8 seed Angelique Kerber plays third-
seeded Agnieszka Radwanska of  Poland  in the women’s semifinals.
Four-time singles champion  Serena Williams  of the U.S. plays
Australian Open champion  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus.  After each won a set in a tiebreak, Murray stepped up the
pace of his groundstrokes in the third set, breaking for 5-4
with a deep backhand return. He took a two sets to one lead with
his 12th ace. Play was suspended for 25 minutes in the fourth
set at 5-5. Murray set up two match points with a forehand down
the line, and won with his 18th ace.  “Very tough match, long match, lots of tight moments,”
Murray said. “Just played a little bit better at the end. He’s
a great player. I knew it was going to be a tough fight”  All the men’s quarterfinalists came from  Europe , only the
fifth time that has happened since tennis turned professional in
1968.  First on Grass  Although Federer leads Djokovic 14-12, the two have never
played each other on grass. The Serb, the men’s top seed, beat
the 30-year-old in straight sets in the French Open semifinals
last month.  “It’s always a pleasure playing against Roger,” Djokovic,
25, said. “He’s a great champion, and so consistent in the
Grand Slams. He’s the ultimate challenge on grass.”  “I know I’m playing really well,” said Federer, who met
Prince William and his wife after his match. “I am aware things
are going to get complicated in the next match. I better prepare
well, because it’s going to be a tough match.”  Federer will be playing his first semifinal at Wimbledon in
three years, and his 32nd overall. The oldest quarterfinalist,
Federer hasn’t won a Grand Slam championship since he took a
record-extending 16th major men’s title at the 2010 Australian
Open.  The Swiss has dominated Youzhny in their previous 14
meetings, only dropping three sets.  Watched by former champions including  Rod Laver , Federer
raced to a 4-1 lead in the first set, when play was stopped for
21 minutes because of rain.  Two-Set Lead  Federer surged to a two-set lead after the rain break. When
faced with a break point at the start of the third set, Youzhny
looked up to the royal box and asked former Wimbledon champions
 Steffi Graf  and  Andre Agassi , “Can you tell me what I can do?”  He promptly lost his serve.  Djokovic struggled at the start against Mayer, recovering
from 0-40 at 4-4 on his own serve. After Djokovic held, he took
control and won the second set in 25 minutes.  Federer, who is trying to tie  Pete Sampras  and  William
Renshaw  with seven titles at the All England Club, will regain
the No. 1 men’s spot if he wins the event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  