-- Finland Contests Seniority Clause in Spain’s Bank Bailout
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-07-05T12:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/finland-contests-seniority-clause-in-spain-s-bank-bailout.html
Finland is contesting the wording of
an agreement struck last week in Brussels, arguing it doesn’t
adequately address the possibility that loans to  Spain  from
Europe’s permanent rescue fund can give taxpayers seniority.  A June 29 statement from the 17 euro-area leaders stripping
the European Stability Mechanism of its preferred creditor
status in Spain was incomplete, said Martti Salmi, a Finnish
 Finance Ministry  official. The 100 billion-euro ($126 billion)
bank bailout could provide seniority to contributor nations if
fresh funds are transferred by the ESM, he said.  Last week’s release out of Brussels “gives the impression
that the entire bailout is without seniority,” Salmi, a
director at the Finance Ministry under Jutta Urpilainen, said in
a phone interview yesterday. “This is not the case exactly.”  Since euro-area leaders emerged from last week’s summit
with a list of measures to stem the debt crisis,  Finland  and the
Netherlands have cast doubt over the success of the talks by
signaling disagreement with a number of key points. The
government of Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  this week
underscored its opposition to using the ESM to purchase bonds on
the secondary market, while Finland has also said it expects
collateral in exchange for any aid commitments that don’t give
it preferred creditor status.  Not Air-Tight  “We reaffirm that the financial assistance will be
provided by the EFSF until the ESM becomes available, and that
it will then be transferred to the ESM, without gaining
seniority status,” euro leaders said of Spain’s bailout in
their June 29 statement. The release was incomplete, Salmi said.  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  also addressed
the point in his post-summit  press briefing . “Financial
assistance to Spain will be provided without seniority status
for the financing provided by the EFSF/ESM,” he said.  That’s not air-tight, according to Salmi.  It’s “technically possible” that some part of Spain’s
rescue would be paid directly from the permanent bailout fund,
Salmi said. Taxpayers would have seniority in that event, he
said.  “After the June summit, the market took at face value the
drop of the seniority rule, as well as the ESM’s bond buying and
direct bank recapitalization roles,” Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank, said in an e-mailed
response to Salmi’s comments. “The reality might be more
complex” and people are starting “to realize that many details
still need to be sorted out.”  ‘Tumultuous’  That means that the July 9 euro group meeting, at which the
bloc’s finance ministers will meet to fine tune the summit’s
conclusions, “could be more tumultuous than expected,” Costerg
said.  Euro-area leaders sought to ease the terms of Spain’s bank
bailout by assuring bondholders their claims won’t be junior to
those of taxpayers. Last week’s summit also brought  Europe 
closer to a fiscal and financial union. The measures sent
Spanish bonds higher amid confidence the crisis won’t spin out
of control.  Euro-area finance ministers may decide on July 9 whether
the entire Spanish bailout will come from the EFSF, according to
Salmi. Use of the temporary fund means Finland will demand
collateral, a privilege the country has already paid for after
agreeing to forgo any profits the EFSF may generate, he said.
Finland also agreed to make its contribution to the ESM up front
as a condition for receiving collateral. The country has yet to
make that transfer, according to the Finnish Treasury.  Spanish Collateral  What the collateral from Spain will be “remains to be
seen,” Salmi said. “ Greece  is of course a kind of precedent.”
Some preliminary talks with Spain’s government on collateral
have already started, he said.  Finland, one of only four AAA rated nations left in the
euro area, threatened to hamper efforts to agree on a second
bailout for Greece by insisting on extra security last year. The
Nordic country was the only nation to negotiate collateral in
exchange for loans from the temporary fund because the vehicle
doesn’t give its creditors preferred status.  Voters in Finland, which kept its deficit within the EU’s 3
percent threshold even as its economy contracted 8.4 percent in
2009, rewarded groups critical of Europe’s rescue mechanisms in
April 2011 elections, when the anti-euro “The Finns” party
become the nation’s third-largest.  Testing Limits  “Finland’s requests might start to resonate with
electorates in other northern countries, who could feel that
assistance to southern countries has already reached its limits,
especially if economic conditions deteriorate at home,” Costerg
said. Finland’s request for collateral could also raise the cost
of the bailout, he said.  Inside the euro area, Finland shares its top  credit rating 
with  Germany , Luxembourg and the Netherlands at the three main
rating companies. The other countries in the monetary union are
 Austria ,  Belgium , Cyprus,  Estonia ,  France , Greece, Ireland,
 Italy , Malta,  Portugal , Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.  Finland’s government on July 2 reiterated its opposition to
secondary market bond purchases using the ESM, citing the rescue
fund’s limited resources and what it called the proven
“ineffectiveness” of such measures. Such interventions could
cost as much as “hundreds of billions of euros,” and be a
deal-breaker for Finland, Salmi said.  Emergency Voting  Evoking an emergency-voting clause to override unanimous
decision-making and enable bond buying would be moot in the
event of a real emergency because such purchases wouldn’t be
enough to sustain the euro economy, Salmi said.  “Our interpretation of this is that it’s very hard to see
that the existence of the euro area would depend on starting or
not starting a bond purchase program,” he said.  The Netherlands also underlined its skepticism toward bond
purchases as the government of Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said
“any request for the use of this instrument will be done on a
case-by-case basis,” in a letter to parliament today.  “We think it’s quite unlikely that some member countries
would think it sensible to ignore the views of others, because
that could have consequences,” he said. “All parties here are
playing hard ball.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  