-- Formula 1 Test Driver Maria de Villota Loses Eye After Crash
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-04T15:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/formula-1-test-driver-maria-de-villota-loses-eye-after-crash.html
Formula One test driver Maria de
Villota lost her right eye after a crash yesterday and is in a
critical but stable condition, her Marussia team said.  De Villota, 32, is being treated for serious head and
facial injuries at Addenbrooke’s Hospital in Cambridge,  England ,
Marussia said in a statement. She had surgery that began
yesterday afternoon and ended this morning, the team said.  “We are grateful for the medical attention that Maria has
been receiving and her family would like to thank the
neurological and plastics surgical teams,” Marussia team
manager John Booth said in the statement. “However it is with
great sadness that I must report that, due to the injuries she
sustained, Maria has lost her right eye.”  The Spanish driver was testing the team’s MR-01 racing car
for the first time at Duxford Airfield near Cambridge. The car
slowed after a test run and then accelerated into a truck, the
British Broadcasting Corp. reported.  Banbury, England-based Marussia said it had started an
analysis of how the accident happened.  De Villota completed 300 kilometers (186 miles) of testing
for the Lotus Renault team last year and was hired by Marussia
in March. A woman driver hasn’t competed in the most-watched
motor sport since 1992.  The daughter of a racing driver, De Villota has competed in
series including the World Touring Car Championship since 2001,
 according to her website . In 2004, she drove a Ferrari Modena
sports car at the 24 Hours of Daytona.  Russian sports carmaker Marussia Motors acquired a stake in
the Formula One team, formerly known as Virgin Racing, from
 Lloyds Banking Group’s private equity arm LDC  in November 2010.
LDC said at the time it was retaining an undisclosed stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  