-- Gemina Advances as ADR Unit Gets Offer for Retail: Milan Mover
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-07-04T12:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/gemina-advances-as-adr-unit-gets-offer-for-retail-milan-mover.html
Gemina SpA (GEM)  rose the most in one year
in Milan after its  Rome  airport manager unit received an offer
for its retail business at a higher-than-expected price.  Aeroporti di Roma said yesterday that Lagardere SCA’s Aelia
offered 229.4 million euros ($288 million) for ADR Retail. The
sale is subject to approval from ADR’s board, antitrust
authorities and creditor banks, the Rome-based company said. ADR
said it will use the proceeds to cut debt.  Gemina shares  rose  as much as 10 percent, the biggest
intraday jump in a year, and were up 3.4 percent at 62.05 cents
as of 2:30 p.m. in Milan. The stock has risen 4 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of 914 million euros.  The offer price is higher than estimates by CA Cheuvreux,
Intermonte SIM and Mediobanca Securities and more than double
Equita SIM SpA’s estimate, according to notes sent to clients.
Kepler  Capital Markets  raised its price estimate for the shares
to 85 cents from 80 cents after the announcement.  “The deal underlines how depressed the current trading
multiples are,” Mediobanca said in a note. The resulting debt
cut will improve Gemina’s risk profile, said Mediobanca, which
has an outperform recommendation on the stock.  ADR, which manages Rome’s Fiumicino and Ciampino airports,
is awaiting final approval from Italian authorities for an
agreement allowing it to raise tariffs for airlines and
passengers. ADR is ready to invest as much as 12 billion euros
when the rules are approved, Gilberto Benetton told Il Corriere
della Sera in an interview last month. The Benetton family
controls Gemina.  ADR is also selling its ADR Mobility parking unit. That may
fetch more than 120 million euros, Equita said. The company has
received “several” expressions of interest, it said on May 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  