-- German Stocks Fall From Highest in Two Months; Banks Drop
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-07-04T16:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/german-stocks-fall-from-highest-in-two-months-banks-drop.html
German stocks fell for the first day
in four, pulling the  DAX Index (DAX)  down from the highest level in
almost two months.  EON AG dropped 1.6 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Citigroup Inc. cut their recommendations on the shares.  Linde AG (LIN) 
fell 1.3 percent after Credit Suisse Group AG lowered its rating
on the stock.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  Germany ’s
biggest lenders, retreated at least 1 percent each.  The DAX Index fell 0.2 percent to 6,564.80 at the close in
Frankfurt, as investors await an interest-rate decision by the
 European Central Bank  and a U.S. report on payrolls later this
week. The gauge has gained 10 percent from its 2012 low on June
5 as  Greece  formed a new government and European leaders agreed
to address flaws in their bailout programs. The broader HDAX
Index lost 0.1 percent today. U.S. equity markets are closed for
the Independence Day holiday.  “Investors have spent the first half of this week eagerly
looking forward to the final two days, when central bank
meetings and non-farm payrolls will provide plenty of
excitement,” said Rupert Osborne, a futures trader at IG Index
in London. “Caution predominates over the U.S. Independence Day
holiday.”  The ECB and the  Bank of England  will announce interest-rate
decisions tomorrow. ECB officials will lower their benchmark
rate by 25 basis points to a record low 0.75 percent, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 62 economists.
Five predict a cut of 50 basis points and 11 forecast no change.  PMIs Shrink  Services and manufacturing output shrank in June for a
fifth month in the euro area and services unexpectedly
contracted in Germany, adding to signs of a deepening economic
slump in the second quarter.  A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in both industries in the 17-nation euro area rose to 46.4 from
May, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s above an
initial estimate of 46 published on June 21. In Germany, a gauge
of  service industries  dropped to 49.9, below an estimate of
50.3. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  EON lost 1.6 percent to 16.92 euros after JPMorgan cut its
recommendation on the shares to neutral from overweight after
recent gains, and Citigroup reduced its rating to sell.
Germany’s largest utility, which has climbed 15 percent in the
past month, increased its profit outlook yesterday after
reaching a deal with Russia’s OAO Gazprom on natural-gas prices.  Linde retreated 1.3 percent to 120.40 euros after Credit
Suisse cut its rating on the shares to neutral from outperform,
saying the company’s acquisition of Lincare Holdings Inc. for
$3.8 billion increases operational risks and may lead to pricing
cuts in the next phase of competitive bidding for U.S.
government-funded home care contracts.  Deutsche Bank slid 1.2 percent to 29.21 euros and
Commerzbank slipped 3.1 percent to 1.33 euros. A gauge of banks
listed on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  