-- GKN to Buy Volvo’s Aerospace Division for $987 Million
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-05T09:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/gkn-said-to-buy-volvo-s-aero-unit-for-about-700-million-pounds.html
GKN Plc (GKN) , a U.K. maker of parts for
Airbus SAS jetliners, agreed to buy the aircraft-engine unit of
 Volvo AB (VOLVB)  for 633 million pounds ($987 million) to add lighter
components and narrow the gap to rivals such as  Safran SA. (SAF)   The British company, which also makes automotive parts,
plans to raise 140 million pounds in a share sale to help pay
for the purchase of Volvo Aero, it said today in a statement.
The stock rose as much as 13 percent, the most in three years.  GKN is broadening a product range that already includes
some engine components as airliner orders accelerate, with the
deal taking aerospace sales to about 37 percent of the total,
Chief Executive Officer Nigel Stein said on a conference call.
For Volvo, the second-biggest truckmaker, the disposal marks the
biggest structural shift since its car unit was sold in 1999.  “This takes GKN into some new areas and increases the
aerospace percentage,” said  Nick Cunningham , an aviation analyst
at Agency Partners in  London . “It also raises the question of
whether GKN is in the process of repositioning itself and will
eventually become almost a pure aerospace company.”  GKN traded  12 percent higher at 209.7 pence as of 10:07
a.m. in London, taking gains this year to 15 percent and valuing
the Redditch, England-based company at 3.27 billion pounds.  Gothenburg-based Volvo was up 1.2 percent at 82.55 kronor
in  Stockholm  and is valued at 176 billion kronor ($25 billion).  A320 Boost  GKN is paying 6.3 times operating profit at the Aero unit,
which employs 3,000 people in  Sweden ,  Norway  and the U.S., and
has been pursuing the acquisition for two or three years, Stein
said, adding that the whole of the business will be retained.  Any other acquisitions will be put on hold until the
company has paid down debt, though there is no intent to expand
in aviation components at the expense of other areas, he said.  The takeover will create an aerospace unit with more than 2
billion pounds in revenue, making GKN one of the world’s top 10
tier-one suppliers. About 70 percent of sales will come from
passenger plane programs such as Airbus’s A320 single-aisle
family, for which Volvo Aero supplies engine components.  GKN initially bid about 800 million pounds for Aero, which
equips aircraft such as  Saab AB (SAABB) ’s Gripen fighter jet, a price
that depended on Volvo meeting certain conditions, people
familiar with the situation said March 27.  MTU, Carlyle  Companies that had been interested and dropped out earlier
this year include German aircraft-engine maker  MTU Aero Engines
Holding AG (MTX)  and buyout firms  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and  Nordic Capital .  Stein said Feb. 28 that he would remain disciplined on what
he would pay for acquisitions and that GKN had looked at “a lot
of things over the years.” The company has four units, of which
aerospace is the second largest after sales grew 4 percent last
year to 1.48 billion pounds, lagging behind the other divisions.  In addition to complete engines, Volvo Aero makes parts
including compressor rotors, turbine structures and fan cases.
GKN Aerospace will get about 40 percent of its sales from engine
activities following the takeover, up from 14 percent last year,
helping to rebalance the business, Stein said today.  The acquisition continues a trend toward consolidation
among aerospace companies as prime contractors seek suppliers
able to become risk-sharing partners on big-ticket programs.  GKN was already a top-tier Airbus and Boeing supplier after
its 169 million-pound purchase of the European planemaker’s
Filton factory, near Bristol,  England , in 2009.  GE, Rolls  Adding Aero should give GKN a similar status with engine
makers  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  and  Pratt
& Whitney , enabling it to compete with Paris-based Safran SA and
MTU, with which it will also have closer ties on some programs.  One large engine maker, Avio SpA, remains in play. Italy
last month approved plans for an initial public offering of a
company 81 percent owned by private-equity firm Cinven Ltd.
after defense contractor Finmeccanica SpA agreed to sell its
stake to national investment fund Fondo Strategico Italiano SpA.  The Volvo deal means GKN will be involved in all major new
aircraft engine programs, though there is scope to strengthen
its position on the Leap model from the CFM International
venture of GE and Safran, said Marcus Bryson, who heads the
aerospace division. The engine is available on both Airbus’s
A320neo and the competing Boeing Co. 737 MAX.  Truckmaker Volvo has been active in aviation systems since
the 1940s, though the business traces its roots to a Swedish Air
Force order for 40 engines placed with a locomotive manufacturer
in 1930. The company also makes construction equipment.  The Aero unit is based in Trollhaettan, 80 miles north of
Gothenburg and also home to  Saab Automobile , the bankrupt
carmaker that last month was sold to a Chinese-Japanese
investment group that aims to make electric cars.  GKN was advised by JP Morgan, UPS and Gleacher Shacklock.
Volvo declined to identify its advisers.  The GKN share sale, equal to 5 percent of its market value
as of yesterday’s close, is fully underwritten, the company
said, with UBS and JP Morgan acting as joint book-runners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  