-- Guatemala Debt Beats Regional Peers as Tax Plan Reverses Deficit
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-04T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/guatemala-debt-beats-regional-peers-as-tax-plan-reverses-deficit.html
Guatemala ’s month-old dollar bonds
are delivering the best returns in Central America as President
Otto Perez Molina takes steps to improve tax collection and cut
spending.  Guatemala’s 10-year dollar bonds, the country’s first
global notes since 2004, have returned 5.7 percent since they
were sold on May 31, compared with 2.2 percent for El Salvador’s
2023 notes and 2.8 percent for  Panamanian bonds , according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index and data collected by
Bloomberg. Similarly rated Latin American debt has returned 2.5
percent, according to Credit Suisse Group AG’s LABI index.  Central America’s biggest economy is increasingly marked by
“prudent macroeconomic management,” said Jose Raul Gonzalez,
chief financial officer of Cementos Progreso, Guatemala’s
largest construction company. Under Perez Molina, who took
office in January, the government had a fiscal surplus of $97
million through May after a $300 million deficit in the first
five months of last year.  “Investors are starting to pay more attention to the
country,” said Consuelo Palomo, who helps manage $350 million
in assets including  government bonds  at Guatemala City-based
Banco G&T Continental. “Guatemala, after the elections, has
been perceived as pro-market.”  Guatemala’s BB credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s , two
levels below investment grade, puts the country of 15 million in
the same category as  Turkey  and Portugal and one level below
Costa Rica.  Tax Evasion  Perez Molina, 61, won election in November after vowing to
crack down on drug gangs blamed for undermining foreign
investment and pushing the country’s murder rate to 45 per
100,000 inhabitants, more than double the average for  Latin
America . After he took office, Congress strengthened laws
against  tax evasion  and raised the income tax paid by non-
salaried workers to seven percent from five percent.  Government revenue rose 5.6 percent to $2.3 billion while
expenditures fell 10 percent through May, according to the
 central bank . The currency, the quetzal, has weakened 0.3
percent against the dollar this year, compared with a 2.7
percent strengthening of the Costa Rican colon and a 0.4 percent
decline in the Honduran lempira.  “We don’t have any sort of uncontrollable fiscal deficits
and have had currency stability for almost 20 years,” said
Gonzalez in a phone interview from Guatemala City. “It is not
by accident. It is a product of demand for institutional
stability that aims to provide investors financial confidence.”  Growth Forecast  The $47 billion economy will grow 3 percent this year after
expanding about 4 percent in 2011, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . Remittances rose 8.7 percent in May
from a year earlier to $452 million. Coffee exports of 2.3
million 60-kilogram bags in the six months through May made
Guatemala the world’s  eighth-biggest  seller.  Opposition lawmaker Luis Pedro Alvarez said Perez Molina
has to deliver on promises to reduce crime if economic growth is
to be sustained. The president said he would use an “iron
fist” to fight drug gangs that have ties to  Mexico ’s most
violent cartels.  “There is no question that violence is the biggest
inhibitor to social and economic strides in Guatemala,” said
Alvarez in a phone interview. “Citizen insecurity and crime
have paralyzed this country from living up to its potential.”  Silver Mining  Investors have also been wary about efforts to change the
constitution to allow the government to take as much as a 40
percent stake in natural resource companies.  Tahoe Resources
Inc. (THO) , the Reno, Nevada-based developer of the Escobal silver
mine southeast of Guatemala City, plunged 23 percent on June 28
after the proposal was reported.  The constitutional changes, which may be sent to congress
next week, could help win greater public support for foreign
investment projects, said  Boris Segura , a Latin America
strategist at Nomura Securities International in  New York .  Foreign direct investment climbed to a record $985 million
in 2011, about triple the level a decade ago, according to the
 United Nations . More oil exploration permits will probably be
issued this year in untapped areas of the country, said Luis
David, director of the national investment board Invest In
Guatemala. Perenco SA, a closely held French  oil company , owns
oil concessions in Guatemala, Central America’s biggest oil
producer.  “The economy is growing at a steady pace,” said Palomo.
“That has resulted in an increased demand for the bonds and
given investors more confidence about coming to the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  