-- Libya Deploys Military Ahead of First Post-Qaddafi Elections
-- B y   S a l e h   S a r r a r   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2012-07-04T11:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/libya-deploys-military-ahead-of-first-post-qaddafi-elections.html
Libya ’s interim government will
deploy more than 13,000 troops along with aircraft and naval
vessels to ensure security during the the country’s first free
national elections since the removal of  Muammar Qaddafi .  Officials have set up an operations room to coordinate the
troops, interior ministry forces, plus naval and air elements
ahead of the July 7 vote, the state-run Libya News Agency
reported, citing Youssif El-Mangoush, the army chief-of-staff.  The election will create an assembly to replace the interim
leadership known as the National Transitional Council. The new
legislature will name a new prime minister and appoint a
committee to draft the country’s constitution.  El-Mangoush said the military will conduct air surveillance
of the country’s borders. The authorities are on high alert for
any disturbances, Omar El-Khadrawi, the deputy interior
minister, said in comments aired on Libyan state television.  Qaddafi, who ruled the north African country for 42 years,
was ousted and killed in 2011 at the end of a bloody, eight-
month uprising. While the oil-rich restored crude production to
1.45 million barrels a day in May, it’s struggling with a
security void that has frustrated efforts to lure foreign
investors.  The country, which sits atop  Africa ’s largest proven crude
reserves, relies almost entirely on oil exports for its revenue.
Its ability to rebuild has been stymied by the central
government’s failure to rein in the armed militias that played a
key role in ousted Qaddafi.  The head of the state-run National Oil Corp. called on the
company’s employees to cast their vote as a step toward building
a “modern Libya founded on law and institutions,” according to
a statement posted on the NOC’s website. Nuri Berruien said
workers should go to the nearest polling station without causing
disruptions to operations or production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saleh Sarar in Dubai at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  