-- Higgs Boson Search Fundamental for Understanding Matter: Q&A
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-07-04T09:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/higgs-boson-search-fundamental-for-understanding-matter-q-a-1-.html
Scientists at CERN, the European
Organization for Nuclear Research, said its researchers observed
a particle that may be the Higgs boson, a theoretical particle
that could explain where mass comes from.  The announcement coincides with the 36th International
Conference on High Energy Physics in Melbourne. Here are answers
to frequently asked questions about the Higgs boson. The
information is drawn from the  Science Media Centre of Canada  and
interviews and press briefings by physicists.  Q: What is it?  The Higgs boson is a hypothesized elementary particle that,
if confirmed, would provide the mechanism by which the other
elementary particles in the universe have mass. Elementary
particles are the smallest fundamental units of matter. It was
once thought atoms were the smallest. Then there was the
discovery of the atomic nucleus and its composition of two types
of subatomic particles: protons and neutrons. Protons and
neutrons are themselves made of elementary particles called
quarks.  This discovery led to understanding that all matter is made
up of quarks and electrons. Discoveries over the last 80 years
have shown that electrons are a member of a class of other
elementary particles called leptons. Elementary particles can be
divided into two classes -- fermions and bosons -- which are
defined by a quantum mechanical property known as “spin.”  Scientists believe that, at a quantum level, the forces
that cause quarks and leptons to attract or repel each other are
carried by bosons.  The Standard Model of elementary particle physics is a
theory that explains how quarks and leptons interact in terms of
three forces: The electromagnetic force, strong nuclear force,
and weak nuclear force.  The Higgs boson is notable in that its interactions with
the other particles are thought to give these particles their
mass, a fundamental constituent of our universe. The Higgs boson
is also notorious as the only particle in the Standard Model
that hasn’t been directly observed.  Q: What does it do?  Scientists have theorized that the Higgs boson gives each
type of particle its own mass. Its existence is needed to
explain a number of the features of the Standard Model as it
provides us with an understanding of why some particles have
very large masses while others are quite light.  Physicist Peter Higgs proposed what we now call the Higgs
field, and hypothesized that it spreads through the universe.
All particles would acquire mass by interacting with this field.
As is the case with the other interactions, at a quantum level
this Higgs interaction predicts that we should be able to
produce and detect the boson associated with it, or the Higgs
boson.  Mass of the particles would be the result of interaction
with the Higgs field, and this interaction produces a Higgs
boson. Because the boson is predicted by the field, finding the
Higgs boson would be evidence that the Higgs field exists.  Q: Why is the Higgs boson important?  The Standard Model has been stood up to scientific
challenge. The Higgs is the last missing component, leaving open
the question about the theoretic formulation given to the masses
ascribed to all of the particles in nature.  If the Higgs boson is found, then the Standard Model will
be further validated. If the Higgs boson is not found, then
original problems with the Standard Model would need other
explanations. There are other theories besides the Higgs boson
that would help explain these inconsistencies. However, it may
also indicate the model has fundamental flaws.  The research relates to fundamental physics, which has
shaped basic scientific understanding and led to technologies
from wireless Internet communications and World Wide Web to
medical imaging and cancer radiotherapy.  The Higgs provides a theory on the origin of mass, which is
why it’s sometimes referred to as the “God particle.”  Q: How do you find it?  Most elementary particles are found by colliding together
pairs of elementary particles, bringing together large amounts
of energy that can result in the creation of other particles.  To do this, particles must be accelerated toward each other
at high speeds in an accelerator, and the results of the
collisions must be observed by large detectors surrounding the
collision point. Data from the detectors must then be analyzed.
The Large Hadron Collider at the CERN laboratory in Geneva has
been built over the last two decades to create these collisions.  The LHC collides protons together at the very highest
energy achieved in a laboratory, 7 tera-electron Volts. Very
occasionally, a Higgs boson would be produced in these
collisions. However, there are many other collisions that are
very similar to those that produce Higgs bosons but are not.
They are considered as “background” events, and they have to
be quantified. When one sees a significant excess of “Higgs-
like” events above the expected backgrounds can one claim
evidence for the existence of a Higgs boson.  Q: Who’s looking?  Only a few accelerators operate at high enough energies to
produce the collisions required to observe the Higgs boson. The
only one currently operating is CERN’s Large Hadron Collider, a
tunnel that’s 27 kilometers (17 miles) in circumference and 100
meters (328 feet) underground.  The CMS, or Compact Muon Solenoid, is one detector in the
LHC that is specifically looking for the Higgs Boson.  The ATLAS (A Toroidal LHC ApparatuS) project, also at the
LHC, is trying to find the Higgs boson.  Experiments at the Fermilab Tevatron accelerator in
 Illinois  also had been searching for the Higgs boson until being
shut down. The most recent results of those experiments have
ruled out the existence of a Higgs boson with a certain range of
mass.  Searches for the Higgs boson also were performed by
experiments studying electron-antielectron collisions at the
Large Electron Project at CERN in the 1990s.  Q: What’s next?  The search for the Higgs boson will intensify with
researchers analyzing additional data. Over the course of its
lifetime, the LHC is expected to produce 3,000 times more data.  Further research will be needed to understand whether the
discovery represents the particle in its simplest manifestation.
It’s possible there may not be just one Higgs, but a
multiplicity of Higgs, ones which haven’t yet been seen. More
experiments will be able discern its properties more precisely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Gale in  Melbourne  at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 