-- High-Dose Vitamin D Averts Hip Fractures in Elderly Study
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-07-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/high-dose-vitamin-d-averts-hip-fractures-in-elderly-study.html
High doses of vitamin D may help
prevent hip fractures in people 65 and older, according to a
review of previous studies that found conflicting evidence of
the nutrient’s benefit.  People who took 792 to 2,000 units of the vitamin daily had
a 30 percent lower risk of hip fractures, Swiss researchers
wrote today in the New England Journal of Medicine. The results
support a recommendation by the U.S.  Institute of Medicine  that
older people take at least 800 units of the nutrient a day.  Hip fractures will more than triple among women and
quadruple among men by 2050 as the global population ages, the
researchers from the Center on Aging and Mobility at University
Hospital in Zurich wrote. Previous studies have produced
conflicting results, possibly because patients’ actual intake of
vitamin D differed from the intended dose, the researchers said.
Today’s review showed only people assigned to take 800 units or
more had a lower fracture risk.  “Our findings suggest that some previous high-quality
trials of vitamin D supplementation either showed no benefit
owing to lower-than-intended doses of vitamin D or showed an
unexpected benefit owing to higher-than-intended doses,” the
researchers said. “Only a high intake of vitamin D leads to a
significant reduction in the risk of fracture.”  The review included data from 31,022 participants in 11
studies. The scientists weren’t able to determine the effects of
taking vitamin D without calcium, as patients who got high doses
of the vitamin also received calcium.  Baseline Levels  Information on the levels of vitamin D before participating
in a trial was available for only 4,383 patients. Having that
data is key because giving additional nutrients to people who
already have an adequate level, or not giving enough to those
with a deficiency, isn’t likely to have any effect, Robert
Heaney, a professor of medicine at  Creighton University  in
Omaha, wrote in an editorial accompanying the study.  “The question of how much vitamin D is enough is likely to
remain muddled as long as meta-analyses focus on trial
methodology rather than on biology,” said Heaney, who helps
lead the university’s Osteoporosis Research Center. “It would
appear to be prudent, and probably helpful as well, to ensure an
intake at the upper end of the range.”  The research was funded by the Swiss National Foundations,
the European Commission and DSM Nutritional Products, a unit of
Dutch chemical maker Royal DSM NV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  