-- Milk Rallying as New Zealand Weather Sours: Commodities
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-05T21:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/milk-rallying-as-new-zealand-to-u-s-weather-sours-commodities.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says this
may be the first time in five years that  New Zealand , the
world’s biggest dairy exporter, produces less milk, at a time
when surging corn prices are raising costs for U.S. farmers.  The country’s output will drop 2.4 percent in the 12 months
ending June 30 as the weather turns less favorable, according to
Goldman’s New Zealand unit. Supply from the seven biggest
exporting regions may gain 1.2 percent in the second half of
2012, slowing from 3.2 percent in the first six months,
according to Rabobank International. Futures, which rose 20
percent since mid-April, will climb a further 15 percent to $20
per 100 pounds in  Chicago  by Dec. 31, said  Shawn Hackett , the
agricultural adviser who correctly predicted the rally in March.  Milk tumbled 33 percent in the eight months to April 18 as
New Zealand’s production was boosted by abundant rain that gave
cattle more to eat and U.S. yields reached a record after an
unusually mild winter.  Global food costs  tracked by the  United
Nations  fell 15 percent since reaching a record in February
2011. The worst Midwest drought in a decade is now parching corn
crops, driving prices for the feed 33 percent higher since June
15 and increasing the incentive for farmers to cull herds.  “Last year was a perfect weather scenario that happens
once in a long, long, long while,” said Hackett, the president
of  Boynton Beach , Florida-based Hackett Financial Advisors Inc.
who has specialized in agriculture for almost a decade.
“Animals are going to be stressed. They’re not likely to
 produce  as much milk as last year.”  Mercantile Exchange  Futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange rose 1.3 percent
to $17.48 at 1:10 p.m., leaving the price up 1.3 percent this
year. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
is down 3.8 percent in 2012, led by cotton, coffee and crude
oil. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of equities rose 4.9
percent, and Treasuries returned 1.8 percent, a Bank of America
Corp. index shows.  Prices in Chicago are determined by both domestic and
global supply, Hackett said. Futures rose to a record in 2007
when New Zealand’s production contracted because of a drought.
When New Zealand and  Australia , the fourth-largest dairy
exporter, have shortages, importers are more reliant on U.S.
shipments, said Robert Chesler, a vice president of the food-
service division at INTL FCStone Inc. in Chicago.  China , the world’s biggest buyer of whole-milk powder, may
import 7 percent more this year because of health scares linked
to domestic supply and a baby boom during the auspicious Year of
the Dragon which began in January, according to Melbourne-based
Dairy Australia, an industry group. There may be 16 million to
17 million babies born in mainland China, compared with 14
million in a normal year, according to Titus Wu, an analyst at
DBS Vickers  Hong Kong  Ltd.  Tainted Supply  Domestic supply is too small and demand for imports will
strengthen as incomes rise, said Wei Ronglu, the Chengdu, China-
based secretary general of Western Dairy Industry Association,
which promotes the industry in 11 provinces. Tainted milk may
have killed at least six babies and sickened about 300,000
others in 2008, and companies were found to have sold formula
contaminated with melamine, an industrial chemical, according to
the government.  Slower global growth may halt the rally as weaker domestic
demand spurs more exports. Chicago prices tumbled 47 percent in
2008 amid the global recession. U.S. shipments of butter more
than doubled that year and cheese sales gained 31 percent, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show.  Europe  also ships more when
regional consumption declines, said Michael Harvey, a Melbourne-
based analyst at Rabobank.  Dollar Index  The 17-nation euro region will contract 0.4 percent this
year, compared with growth of 1.5 percent in 2011, according to
the median of 30 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
U.S. will expand 2.2 percent, from 1.7 percent, according to the
median of 70 forecasts. The U.S.  Dollar Index , a measure against
six trading partners, rose 10 percent in the past year, making
U.S. exports less competitive.   China expanded  8.1 percent in the first quarter, the
slowest pace in almost three years, and probably gained 7.9
percent in the following three months, the median of 27
economist estimates shows. Its whole milk-powder imports dropped
22 percent in 2008 as growth slowed to 9.6 percent from 14.2
percent, according to USDA data.  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy
exporter, said in May that prices had probably bottomed. Global
milk supply should move back into balance with demand later this
year, the Auckland-based company’s Chairman Henry van der Heyden
said in a statement on May 22.  Facing Drought  Whole-milk powder at Fonterra’s GlobalDairyTrade auction,
which sets a global benchmark every two weeks, rose 9.4 percent
to $2,721 a metric ton since reaching a more than two-year low
May 15. Prices reached a record $4,958 in March 2011 as demand
for imports increased and parts of New Zealand faced drought.  El Nino, caused by a warming of the  Pacific Ocean  that can
bring dry weather to Australia and New Zealand, may emerge in
the second half, according to most models used by Australia’s
Bureau of Meteorology. New Zealand’s Waikato province, the
biggest milk-producing region, has a 25 percent chance of below-
average rain from July to September, the National Institute of
Water and Atmospheric Research said July 2.  Costlier milk may crimp profit for  Dean Foods Co. (DF) , the
largest U.S. processor. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Gregg Engles told analysts during a presentation at a conference
in May that it’s “unquestionably true that rising milk prices
hurt us and falling milk prices help us.” The Dallas-based
company will report  net income  of $208.3 million this year, from
a loss $1.58 billion in 2011, the mean of eight analyst
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  Wilting Corn  The heat wave wilting corn in the Midwest is raising feed
costs for farmers and may curb milk yields. Corn reached $6.76 a
bushel on July 3 in Chicago, the highest price since September.
Hotter-than-average summer weather limits the amount each cow
produces, according to Jon Spainhour, a broker and partner at
Rice Dairy LLC in Chicago. The dairy herd shrank for the first
time since 2010 in May as farmers culled cows, USDA data show.  “Cow numbers going down are an indication that farms are
responding to these tight margins and making some production
decisions,” said Mark Stephenson, the director at the Center
for Dairy Profitability at the  University of Wisconsin  -Madison.
“I’m more bullish than the  futures markets .”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  