-- Intel Says EU Selected Its Evidence to Build ‘Extreme’ Case
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-07-04T13:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/intel-says-eu-picked-and-chose-evidence-to-build-extreme-case.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  was fined 1.06 billion-
euro ($1.33 billion) for using rebates to block rivals after
European Union regulators ignored exonerating evidence to build
an “extreme case,” lawyers told an EU appeals court.  The EU’s antitrust regulator’s 2009 decision was based on
speculative evidence that helped support its analysis that Intel
had offered rebates conditional on excluding a rival from the
market and omitted other non-incriminating information.  “The commission ignores the exculpatory emails and focuses
on those which support its extreme case,” Nicholas Green, a
lawyer for Intel, told the EU General Court in Luxembourg on the
hearing’s second day. The evidence used was “irrelevant,” he
said.  The EU probe concluded  Santa Clara , California-based Intel
impeded competition by giving rebates to computer makers from
2002 until 2005 on the condition that they buy at least 95
percent of chips for personal computers from Intel. Intel then
imposed “restrictive conditions” for the remaining 5 percent,
supplied by  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , which struggled to
overcome its rival’s hold on the market for PC processors, the
EU said.  The documents concerning  Dell Inc. (DELL)  that Intel wanted the EU
to consider “don’t really help” Intel’s case and don’t absolve
the company, said Nicholas Khan, a lawyer for the commission.  Dell Income  A fifth of Dell’s operating income came from Intel rebates
in 2004 according to the  U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission ’s 2010 accounting fraud case against the  Round Rock ,
Texas-based company. That rose to “a zenith of about 70
percent” after the infringement period in the EU case, Khan
said, citing the SEC report.  The EU court should assess Intel’s claims in the light of
the incentives it offered Dell, the secrecy of the practices,
“and the sheer scale and rising scale of these payments by over
500 percent during the infringement period alone,” he said.  The computer makers allegedly coaxed to avoid AMD’s chips
included  Acer Inc. (2353) , Dell, Hewlett-Packard,  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and
 NEC Corp. (6701) , the commission said in 2009. Intel made payments to
 Metro AG (MEO) ’s electronics retailer Media Markt on the condition
that it only sell Intel-based PCs, the EU said. It ordered Intel
to stop using illegal rebates to thwart competitors, an
instruction that Intel complained was unclear.  The court hearing will focus in turn on the alleged
agreements between Intel and each of the computer makers,
starting with Dell.  Dell Threats  “Dell constantly used the threat of switching to AMD to
obtain better terms,” Green said. “That is inconsistent with
Dell being scared of an Intel reaction or considering itself at
risk of a disproportionate consequence if it switched.”  Dell switched to AMD in 2006 and announced it in a press
release, Green told the five-judge panel. “This alone
undermines and destroys the commission’s theory of
conditionality,” he said.  “If it had been induced to stay loyal by a fear of
disproportionate consequences it would not have switched and it
would not have shouted loudly to the world about its decision to
switch,” said Green.  “Of course” Dell was always free to choose an alternative
supplier, Kahn said. “The issue in the case is not whether it
was free to do so, the issue is what were the consequences.”  The EU began investigating after AMD complained about the
rebates in 2000. Intel agreed to pay AMD $1.25 billion in 2009
to end all litigation by the rival. Sunnyvale, California-based
AMD is no longer involved in the case and won’t intervene at
this week’s hearing after settling with Intel, according to
court records.  Any decision by the EU General Court can be appealed to the
 EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg. The hearings will conclude
July 6.  The case is T-286/09 Intel Corp. v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  