-- Irish Bill Sale Marks End of Drought as Spain Yields Rise
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-07-09T12:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/irish-bill-sale-marks-end-of-drought-as-spain-boosts-bond-size.html
Irish lawmaker Thomas Pringle said he
“retains the option” of appealing a High Court ruling in Dublin
paving the way for the ratification of domestic legislation on
the European Stability Mechanism.  Pringle, who challenged the constitutionality of the
laws, said he may appeal to the country’s  Supreme Court . He said
he would await the written judgement and details of Judge Mary
Laffoy’s comment in court that she will refer one outstanding
question on the case to European courts in Luxembourg.  “It’s only half time,” Pringle told reporters outside the
courts complex in Dublin.  European leaders moved to create the ESM, which will have
firepower of about 500 billion euros ($615 billion), to combat
the escalating euro-region debt crisis. The rescue fund needs to
be ratified by all 17 members of the region before it can take
effect.  “The establishment of the ESM treaty at the earliest
possible date is something that this government has negotiated
hard to achieve,” Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said.
 “This will serve as a positive backdrop as we look to build
upon the positive return to the T-Bills market” last week “and
return to bond markets next year.”  The National Treasury Management Agency on July 5 sold 500
million euros ($625 million) of bills due in October at a yield
of 1.80
percent, the first auction since September 2010.  The yield on Ireland’s 5 percent security due in October
2020 rose 1 basis point to 6.29 percent today. The rate was at
7.11 percent on June 28, and exceeded 14 percent about a year
ago.  -- Editors: Dara Doyle, Tony Aarons  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  