-- Israel May Need Foreign Investors to Develop Natural Gas Fields
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-07-04T13:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/israel-may-need-foreign-investors-to-develop-natural-gas-fields.html
Israel  may need foreign investors to
finance the development of natural-gas fields off its shores,
according to Standard & Poor’s Maalot.  “The volume of financing needed for the development of the
natural-gas industry in Israel may require the entry of foreign
investors and the use of global financing tools in addition to
local financing,” Ronit Harel Ben-Zeev, Standard & Poor’s
Maalot chief executive officer, said today at a conference in
Tel Aviv.  A series of discoveries has given Israel the opportunity to
become a gas exporter. The Tamar and Dalit gas fields are due to
start output next year and are big enough to supply the country
with gas for two decades. The larger Leviathan field holds more
than the U.K.’s  reserves . Drilling costs will total about $2
billion in the coming two years, according to figures from the
Ministry of Energy and Water Resources presented at the
conference.  “Foreign investors have internalized that the findings
here are not just a fleeting episode but that this is a market
with potential,” Ohad Marani, CEO of Israel Land Development
Co. Energy Ltd. said at the conference. “To further attract
their attention we must turn to exports.”  Boaz Schwartz, managing director and chief country officer
of Deutsche Bank in Israel, which is financing the Tamar
project, said that while foreign banks and foreign investors are
happy to look at Israel, they are deterred by regulatory
uncertainty, mainly regarding the country’s infrastructure
development.  “If there was regulatory certainty, it would significantly
ease the financing of these projects and the quantity of foreign
investors would increase,” he said. “Disorder has a price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  