-- Mitsubishi Materials Plans Its First Yuan Loan Borrowed in Japan
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-07-04T03:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/mitsubishi-materials-plans-its-first-yuan-loan-borrowed-in-japan.html
Mitsubishi Materials Corp., (5711)  Japan’s
largest producer of base metals by sales, is planning its first
yuan-denominated loan in the nation to tap rates that are lower
than those offered by Chinese lenders.  The company  may borrow the yuan equivalent of 500 million
yen ($6.3 million) to 600 million yen and plans to complete the
facility by January, Hideyasu Itagaki, the finance group general
manager at Mitsubishi Materials, said in an interview at the
company’s Tokyo headquarters yesterday. The funds will be used
to hedge against exchange rate fluctuations and help finance
operations at a new factory in  China , he said.  The producer of copper, zinc and lead joins  Topy Industries
Ltd. (7231) , which in April borrowed 120 million  yuan  ($19 million)
from Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. and Bank of China Ltd.’s Tokyo
branch, in taking advantage of relaxed regulations on offshore
funding denominated in the Chinese currency that came in effect
in 2010. China’s six-month best lending rate has remained at
5.85 percent since June 8, compared with 3 percent for the six-
month  Hong Kong interbank yuan reference rate , data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “There’s a marked increase in demand for yuan funding from
Japanese companies and it’s cheaper to borrow offshore than in
China,” Takamoto Suzuki, a senior economist at Mizuho Research
Institute Ltd., said in a telephone interview today. “China
plans to liberalize borrowing rates by 2015 and
internationalize the yuan. The process may advance faster than
we expect.”  Mitsubishi Materials may also consider selling yuan-
denominated bonds, Itagaki said, declining to elaborate.
“Raising funding for overseas units in local currency helps
reduce exchange rate risks,” a policy the company already
pursues for its units in  North America , Thailand and Indonesia,
he said.  Mitsubishi Materials has 235.5 billion yen of bonds and
loans outstanding, including a 20 billion yen term loan facility
due in September and 10 billion yen of notes maturing next
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emi Urabe in 東京 at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in 東京 at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  