-- Japan Should Boost JGBs to Spur Growth, Sakakibara Says
-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a   a n d   B r i a n   F o w l e r
-- 2012-07-04T04:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/japan-should-boost-jgbs-to-spur-growth-sakakibara-says.html
Far from tightening its fiscal belt,
 Japan  should expand the world’s largest debt pile to rekindle
economic growth, said  Eisuke Sakakibara , a former Ministry of
Finance official.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s push to double the sales
tax to lessen the government’s reliance on Japanese  government
bonds  could further damage an economy already struggling amid a
slowdown in exports, Sakakibara, known as “Mr. Yen” and now a
professor at  Aoyama Gakuin University  in Tokyo, said in an
interview yesterday.  “We should be selling large amounts of JGBs to fund an
economic stimulus,” he said. “We could also consider a cut to
the corporate  tax rate  as a stimulus step. The big problem for
the Noda administration is there’s no one in an important office
who understands the economy.”  Japan’s bond market is signaling no immediate concern about
a public debt burden that’s now double the nation’s annual
economic output. The benchmark 10-year  note  yield closed
yesterday at two basis points from a nine-year low, and central
bank data showed last month that overseas investors owned 8.3
percent of JGBs at the end of March, the most on record.  The government yesterday auctioned 2.1 trillion yen ($26
billion) of 10-year securities at an average yield of 0.836
percent, the lowest since June 2003, according to Ministry of
Finance data. Japan’s interest rates are the lowest in the world
after Switzerland’s, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  More Aggressive  Noda’s bill, which passed the lower house of parliament
last week, calls for increasing the 5 percent tax to 8 percent
in April 2014 and to 10 percent in October 2015. He has said
that raising the levy is necessary to contain the country’s debt
and welfare expense. The  International Monetary Fund  and the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development have both
urged Japan to be more aggressive in reforming its finances.  An aging population and two decades of low growth have left
Japan with a debt pile projected to exceed 1 quadrillion yen
next year, the biggest in the world.  Opponents to Noda’s tax bill argue that it goes against the
platform used by the  Democratic Party  of Japan on its ascent to
power in 2009, and say it may discourage consumption and fail to
increase government revenue.  Ichiro Ozawa , a former leader of
the DPJ, and 56 other legislators from the party voted against
the tax bill, and Ozawa has since announced he will leave the
ruling bloc to form his own political group.  Weak Economy  Japan will eventually have to address the imbalance of
 government spending  that is now more than double what it takes
in from taxes, according to Sakakibara. Though with a weak
economy, the prime minister should instead be debating the shape
of social welfare spending along with its sources of revenue, he
said.  “In the medium to longer term, we’ll have to raise the
 sales tax  - in no more than five years,” Sakakibara said. “To
the extent that leading with a tax increase doesn’t make sense,
Ozawa’s stance is correct. It’s a question of timing.”  Sakakibara, 71, became known as “Mr. Yen” during his
1997-1999 tenure as vice finance minister for his efforts to
influence the currency through verbal and actual  intervention  in
markets. Japan sold yen in September 2010 for the first time
since 2004, and it did so repeatedly last year as a record
earthquake off the northeast coast and a worsening debt crisis
in Europe spurred gains in the currency.  “We can’t count on a strong domestic recovery from last
year’s disaster with overseas growth slowing this year,”
Sakakibara said. “So it’s a mistake to conduct the tax hike at
a time like this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in  Tokyo  at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler in Tokyo at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  