-- Kazakh Central Bank Studying BTA Forged Signatures Allegation
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-07-04T11:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/kazakh-central-bank-studying-bta-forged-signatures-allegation.html
Kazakhstan ’s central bank said it is
studying allegations by a senior  BTA Bank (BTAS)  executive that his
signatures were forged last year to backdate documents before
the lender was forced into its second debt restructuring.  “Some steps will certainly be taken,” central bank
Chairman Grigori Marchenko told reporters today in Almaty. “But
all these things must be looked into and proved.” The
regulator’s financial-oversight committee is carrying out the
probe.  The BTA official, who served on the lender’s  management
board , filed a complaint after discovering the fraudulent use of
his electronic signatures in May 2011, Bloomberg News reported
on June 6 citing three people, who declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public. Citing commercial
confidentiality, BTA declined at the time to confirm or deny the
existence of any complaint or internal investigation.  The allegations raise questions about the bank’s controls
and oversight following the state’s takeover of the country’s
biggest lender before its default on $12 billion of  debt  in
2009. Almaty-based BTA proposed a second restructuring in
December to stave off bankruptcy and later failed to make an
interest payment on its bonds.  Graft is pervasive in Kazakh banking, with every seventh
borrower paying a bribe to secure a loan, the  Sange  research
center in Almaty said in a poll released in February. BTA was
ranked as the country’s fifth-most corrupt lender in the survey,
with customers often encountering demands for kickbacks or
requests for repayment ahead of schedule.  30 Documents  The bank’s rules allow management-board members exclusive
use of electronic copies of their signatures. The executive
complained his name was used to sign about 30 documents,
containing a total of about 500 individual items, in two
instances over a combined period of about eight minutes,
according to the report.  The press service of the lender’s state-run parent, Samruk-
Kazyna, referred all questions to BTA Chairman Anvar Saidenov
and Chief Executive Officer Erik Balapanov. The existing system
of using electronic signatures by board members at BTA makes
unauthorized use or unsanctioned third-party access impossible,
the bank said June 1 in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  