-- No Apology Needed as Contraction Boosts Bonds: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-07-05T10:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/no-apology-needed-as-contraction-boosts-bonds-turkey-credit.html
Corrected data showing Turkey’s
economy  contracted  the first time since 2009 is adding to
profits for bondholders as yields tumble on bets the central
bank will cut  interest rates .  Benchmark two-year bonds rallied for an eighth day, sending
 lira yields  down six basis points to 8.11 percent, the lowest
since September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Two-
year  interest-rate swaps  fell eight basis points to 8.93
percent, the lowest since October.  The fastest-growing major economy after  China  and  Argentina 
last year shrank 0.4 percent in the first quarter from the
previous three months, the statistics institute in Ankara said
on July 3, apologizing for mistakenly saying the economy had
expanded. Lira bonds are adding to the second best gains
worldwide this year on bets central bank Governor Erdem Basci
will respond by cutting rates as inflation slows.  “The economy has been on a deceleration path,” Nilufer Sezgin, chief economist at Ekspres Invest brokerage in Istanbul,
said in an e-mailed report on July 3. “The contraction in the
first quarter is a bit sharper than a soft landing would
suggest.”  The first-quarter contraction erased a 0.4 percent
expansion in the previous quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The retreat in the January-to-March period was the
first since the first three months of 2009 that capped four
quarterly declines in the first recession since 2001.  The latest data “does raise the chances of more rate cuts
ahead,” Simon Quijano-Evans, the head of emerging market
research for  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa  at ING Groep NV
in  London , said in e-mailed comments yesterday.  Debt Crisis  The slowdown in Turkey’s $772 billion economy comes as
consumption growth stagnates and Europe’s debt crisis cuts
demand for exports by the country’s biggest trading partner and
threatens the global recovery. The  European Central Bank  will
probably lower its benchmark rate to a record low today,
according to economists in a Bloomberg survey. The  International
Monetary Fund  said the U.S. Federal Reserve may need to further
ease monetary policy after cutting its growth estimate for the
world’s biggest economy on July 3.  Policy makers worldwide stand ready to support economies,
helping avert a hard landing for  Turkey , according to Mert Yildiz, an emerging-market economist at Renaissance Capital Ltd.
in Moscow.  “Any kind of landing in this global environment will be
soft,” he said. “This is guaranteed since credit is still
abundant, interest rates are low and demand in the west is
softening, not crashing.”  Yield Spread  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries rose one basis
point to 295, or 2.95 percentage point, today, while the average
spread for developing-nation debt increased two basis points to
367, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The cost to insure Turkish bonds against non-payment using
credit-default swaps rose three basis points to 231, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Turkey is rated BB, the second-
highest non-investment grade status, at  Standard & Poor’s .
Default swaps for  Russia , rated three levels higher, cost 212,
with contracts for  Poland  at 210 and  South Africa  at 155. The
contracts would pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash.  Basci introduced a so-called interest-rate corridor in
October, varying rates daily to support the currency, control
 inflation  and curb a record  current-account deficit . Borrowing
costs for banks climbed to 11.9 percent in January from 5.75
percent three months earlier, according to  data compiled by
Bloomberg .  Borrowing Costs  Policy makers lowered the rate to an average 9.2 percent in
June as inflation slowed more than forecast to 8.3 percent in
April from a 3 ½-year high of 11.1 percent and the current-
account gap shrank for six straight months. Basci currently
provides funding between 5.75 percent and 11.5 percent, after
lowering the upper rate 100 basis points on Feb. 21.  “The central bank will first ease by comforting the
liquidity conditions and it is already doing this,” Burcu Unuvar, a senior economist at Is Invest, Turkey’s biggest broker
by trading volume, said in an interview in Istanbul yesterday.
The bank may loosen policy by cutting its upper band of the rate
corridor, she said.  The lira weakened 0.2 percent to 1.8103 per dollar at 1:19
p.m. in Istanbul, paring this year’s rally to 4.4 percent. The
currency tumbled 18 percent in 2011, the worst performance among
currencies worldwide.  ‘Heading South’  Data in coming months should confirm that inflation is
coming down before the central bank eases rates to avoid a sell-
off in the lira, Daniel Lenz, chief strategist for  emerging
markets  at DZ Bank AG, said in e-mailed comments from  Frankfurt .  “If the central bank cuts too early, we would most likely
see the lira heading south again,” he said.  While price growth rebounded to 8.9 percent in June, it
accelerated less than the 9.5 percent estimated by nine
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The central bank forecast
inflation will slow to 6.5 percent by year-end as the economy
cools. Bondholders predict annual inflation will fall to 4.7
percent over the next two years, based on the so-called
 breakeven rate , or the extra yield on fixed-rate lira bonds over
those tied to inflation.  Turkey’s economy will probably expand 4 percent this year,
down from 8.5 percent in 2011, according to government estimates
last year. Further signs of a deteriorating economy will
probably spur monetary easing, according to RenCap’s Yildiz.  This week’s data is a possible “game-changer,” Yildiz
said in e-mailed comments yesterday. “If we see another bad
growth number in the second quarter -- and the bank wouldn’t
wait until the official release but will track other indicators
including industrial production -- then it calls for easing
earlier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Gavin Serkin
at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  