-- Obama Welcomes 25 Immigrant-Soldiers as Newest Americans
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-07-04T21:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/obama-welcomes-25-immigrants-turned-soldiers-as-new-americans.html
President  Barack Obama  marked the
236th birthday of the  United States of America  by welcoming 25
members of the military as they took the oath to become
citizens.  “I could not be prouder to be among the first to greet you
as ‘my fellow Americans,’” the president said at a
naturalization ceremony at the White House. “It reminds us that
we are a country that is bound together not simply by ethnicity
or bloodlines, but by fidelity to a set of ideas.”  Members of the U.S. military from 17 countries, all
currently on active duty, took their citizenship oath in the
East Room. The government permits non-citizens to enlist in the
U.S. armed forces and assists them in navigating the application
process toward citizenship.  “All of you did something profound: you put on the uniform
of a country that was not yet fully your own, in a time of
war,” Obama said. “You displayed the values that we celebrate
every Fourth of July: duty, responsibility and patriotism.”  Four of the new Americans are from the Philippines, three
from  Russia , two each from El Salvador, Colombia and Guatemala,
and one each from  Nigeria , Belize, Cape Verde Islands,  Mexico ,
Bolivia, Honduras, Guinea, Cameroon, Ukraine, Palau, Ecuador and
Ghana.  Alejandro Mayorkas, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services director, recited the list of home countries.  Janet Napolitano , secretary of  Homeland Security , administered the
oath of allegiance.  Immigrant Nation  Obama said immigrants signed their names to the Declaration
of Independence, help lay railroads and build cities, took up
arms, pioneered new industries and helped fuel the Information
Age, from Google to the iPhone.  “The story of immigrants in America isn’t a story of them;
it’s a story of us,” he said. “It’s who we are. And now all of
you get the write the next chapter.”  He used the occasion to press Congress again to overhaul
U.S. immigration laws and to approve legislation, known as the
Dream Act, that would give some children brought to the U.S.
illegally a path toward legal status.  This evening, the president and his family planned to
entertain military families on the South Lawn of the White House
with a barbecue, a concert and a first-class view of the
fireworks over the Washington Monument.  Tomorrow, the president was scheduled to begin a two-day
re-election campaign bus tour in the swing states of Ohio and
 Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  