-- Oil Futures Drop on Speculation Europe Economy Weakening
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2012-07-05T06:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/oil-drops-in-new-york-on-speculation-europe-s-economy-weakening.html
Oil fell in  New York  on speculation
data from  Europe  and the U.S. will signal an economic slowdown
that threatens to cut demand.  Futures slipped as much as 1.3 percent from July 3. Factory
orders in  Germany , the euro zone’s biggest economy, probably
dropped 6 percent in May from a year ago, a Bloomberg News
survey of  economists  showed before a report today. The U.S., the
world’s largest crude user, may have had its weakest quarter for
employment in more than two years, according to analysts polled
before data today and tomorrow. London-traded Brent decreased
yesterday amid signs a strike by oil workers in  Norway  may end.  “The key factor to look at is the payroll figures on
Friday,” said Dominic Schnider, the global head of non-
traditional assets at UBS AG’s wealth-management unit, who sees
 Brent crude  falling back to $90 a barrel. “This is the most
serious factor for the oil market to consider. The market isn’t
going to react positively to a drop” in German manufacturing.  Oil for August delivery declined as much as $1.16 to $86.50
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $86.96 at 2:34 p.m. Singapore time. There
was no floor trading yesterday because of the U.S. Independence
Day holiday and transactions since the July 3 closed will be
booked with today’s trades for settlement purposes. Prices are
down 12 percent this year.  Brent oil for August settlement was at $99.42 a barrel,
down 35 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
It dropped 0.9 percent yesterday to $99.77. The European
benchmark’s premium to West Texas Intermediate was at $12.45,
from $12.11 yesterday.  Supply Shocks  U.S. employers increased payrolls by 90,000 workers last
month after a 69,000 gain in May, according to the median
forecast of 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Labor
Department figures due tomorrow. Excluding government agencies,
private hiring may have climbed by 100,000, concluding the
smallest quarterly rise since the first three months of 2010.  New York crude may trade “between $70 and $80 a barrel if
we don’t see an improvement in the demand side,”  David Lennox ,
an analyst at Fat Prophets in Sydney, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today. “Supply-side shocks have really
been what have driven the oil price higher.”  Brent slid yesterday after Norway’s Oil Industry
Association said it’s willing to negotiate to end a 10-day
strike as quickly as possible. The labor dispute, the first
industry-wide by energy workers since 2004, has affected as much
as 250,000 barrels a day of output, including some crude that
provides the physical basis for the European futures contract.  German Services  A gauge of German services fell to 49.9 in June, London-
based  Markit Economics  reported yesterday, with a figure below
50 indicating contraction. The European Union accounted for 15.9
percent of global oil demand in 2011, according to  BP Plc. (BP/)   An EU embargo on  Iran  entered into full force on July 1
after exemptions on some contracts and insurance ended. Iran’s
crude exports may drop to about 1 million barrels a day, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a report July 2. The country produced
3.2 million barrels a day in June, according to Bloomberg
estimates.  European and Iranian officials examined each side’s
proposals for settling the dispute over  Iran’s nuclear program ,
the EU said after talks in Istanbul yesterday. A follow-up
meeting will be held, the EU said in e-mailed statement.  “Iran will try to keep these issues alive as long as
possible in order to keep the oil price higher,” said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax Ltd. in  Tokyo , who
forecasts crude to increase 25 percent by the end of 2012 as the
global economy stabilizes. “I don’t really think the issues
will be resolved in at least half a year.”  Oil Stockpiles  U.S. crude stockpiles probably  declined  2.3 million barrels
last week, according to a Bloomberg survey before an Energy
Department report today. Inventories may have dropped as
Tropical Storm Debby delayed tanker arrivals and reduced output
at Gulf of Mexico platforms, the respondents said.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  stated
July 3 that crude supplies dropped by 3 million barrels to 382.6
million. Gasoline inventories declined by 1.4 million barrels,
according to data from the API.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  