-- Hold Holdings in ETPs Gain to Record as Demand Advances
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-07-04T07:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/hold-holdings-in-etps-gain-to-record-as-demand-advances.html
Gold holdings  in exchange-traded
products expanded to a record on increased speculation that
central banks around the world will take more steps to boost
their economies as growth falters.  Assets rose 4.6 metric tons to 2,412.42 tons yesterday,
taking gains this year to 2.4 percent, data tracked by Bloomberg
shows. The previous peak was 2,410.2 tons on March 13. Holdings
have risen every year since at least 2004.  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc., which describes gold as the so-
called currency of last resort, said last month that bullion may
rally to $1,840 in six months, citing prospects for further
stimulus. Gold has rallied for 11 years as investors seek to
avoid weakening currencies and  emerging markets  such as  China ,
the biggest user, raise consumption.  “Over time, we’re still going to need to do some
quantitative easing,” said Dominic Schnider, global head of
non-traditional assets at UBS AG’s wealth-management unit. “In
the short run, however, we are cautious. The market is
oversupplied this year and that really calls for lower prices.”  Cash metal, which climbed to a two-week high of $1,625.07
an ounce yesterday, dropped 0.3 percent to $1,613.18 at 3:55 p.m.
in  Singapore . Immediately-delivery gold reached a record
$1,921.15 an ounce Sept. 6.  Reports this week showed manufacturing from the U.S. to
China deteriorated, fueling expectations that central banks and
governments will do more to prop up their economies as  Europe ’s
crisis hurts growth. European Central Bank officials are set to
cut their main  interest rate  to a record low tomorrow, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Increased Holdings  Investors raised ETP holdings 0.5 percent in the second
quarter even as spot prices lost 4.3 percent, the worst three-
month showing since 2008, as Europe’s crisis sparked a rally in
the dollar. ETPs, which trade like shares, allow investors to
hold commodities without taking physical delivery.  The  Federal Reserve  bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing from December 2008 to
June 2011 and gold almost doubled in that time. Last month, Fed
policy makers didn’t decide to buy more debt, instead extending
a program of replacing short-term bonds with longer-term debt.  Assets held in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest exchange
traded product backed by bullion, account for more than half of
total holdings compiled by Bloomberg. Paulson & Co., the hedge
fund founded by billionaire  John Paulson , is the SPDR’s largest
stakeholder, owning 17.3 million shares as of March 31.  Blinder’s Forecast  Princeton University economist  Alan Blinder , a former Fed
vice chairman, said on July 2 that a third round of quantitative
easing, by policy makers purchasing additional mortgage-backed
securities, “is waiting in the wings.” Declining employment
data in the U.S. may prompt the Fed to initiate fresh stimulus,
according to BNP Paribas SA.  Gold-investment demand gained 13 percent to 389.3 tons in
the first quarter, according to data from the producer-funded
World Gold Council. The precious metal may rally in the second
half, Marcus Grubb, the council’s managing director for
investment research, said June 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  