-- Hollande, Wolfish Bankers, Devil Hang Out in Avignon
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-07-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/hollande-wolfish-bankers-devil-hang-out-in-avignon-preview.html
The financial crisis has finally
reached the  Festival d’Avignon , the world’s biggest theater
jamboree after Edinburgh.  Two of the 52 plays in the official program -- and half a
dozen of the more than 1,000 shows in the Festival Off -- deal
with the excesses of bankers and traders that pushed the world
economy to the brink of disaster.  “The Contracts of the Businessman,” an “economic
comedy” by the Austrian Nobel Prize winner Elfriede Jelinek, is
a coproduction of theaters in Hamburg and Cologne.  In the four-hour marathon, which is more a satirical revue
than a coherent play, bankers appear disguised as wolves, their
victims as sheep, and a chorus of ruined investors bewails the
injustice of life.  Subtlety has never been Jelinek’s strong suit, yet the show
was a huge success in  Germany .  The French writer and director Bruno Meyssat and his actors
have interviewed bankers and traders to find out what makes the
world of finance tick. “15 Percent,” the title of the show,
refers to the profit margin the interviewees told them was
necessary to survive in that snake pit.  The festival itself hasn’t been immune to the financial
turmoil. Last year,  Dexia SA (DEXB) , a long-time sponsor and an early
casualty of the  European debt crisis , withdrew its support.
Fortunately, another bank, Credit Cooperatif, has stepped in.  Hollande Opening  The official opening on July 7 in the courtyard of the
Papal Palace, which will be attended by French President
 Francois Hollande , has been entrusted to the U.K. director Simon McBurney, “associate artist” of this year’s festival.  McBurney and his touring company,  Theatre de Complicite ,
will present a dramatized version of “The Master and
Margarita,” Mikhail Bulgakov’s 1940 novel, in which the Devil
appears in Moscow, wreaking havoc on greedy speculators, nosy
janitors, dishonest innkeepers and incompetent writers.  In the past, Hortense Archambault and Vincent Baudriller,
the festival’s outgoing directors, have been accused of
indulging in cheap provocations and “post-dramatic” fads. In
their last year, they’re obviously trying to restore their
reputation.  Chekhov’s ‘Seagull’  So they’ve admitted a number of classics -- Chekhov’s “The
Seagull,” directed by Arthur Nauzyciel; Pirandello’s “Six
Characters in Search of an Author,” directed by Stephane
Braunschweig; and Ibsen’s most political play, “An Enemy of the
People,” a production of the  Schaubuehne Berlin , directed by
Thomas Ostermeier.  Still, outsiders and avant-gardists dominate the field.  The  Theater Hora  from Zurich is a company of 11 mentally
handicapped actors, most of them suffering from Down’s syndrome.
Their show, performed on a bare stage, “queries the
spectator,” we’re told in the festival’s brochure, “on his
relationship to otherness.”  The Italian Romeo Castellucci and his  Societas Raffaello
Sanzio  are regulars at the festival.  Last year, their two-hander “The Concept of Christ’s
Face” caused a stir when it came to Paris: Catholic
fundamentalists protested in and outside the  Theatre du Chatelet 
against what they regarded as blasphemous -- the story of an
incontinent old man and his son who, in front of a giant
portrait of Christ, cleans up his father’s bowel movements.  “The Four Seasons Restaurant,” Castellucci’s new show,
has been inspired by a real event: In 1958,  Mark Rothko  returned
the cash advance and withdrew from a plum commission for which
he had already painted more than 30 canvases -- to decorate the
posh eatery in  New York ’s Seagram building.  After accepting the commission, Rothko had written to a
friend that he was going to “ruin the appetite of every son-of-
a-bitch who ever eats in that room.” It seems that he came to
the conclusion that  Manhattan ’s power brokers couldn’t be
intimidated so easily and gave up.  The Festival d’Avignon, supported by Credit Cooperatif,
starts on July 7 and runs through July 28. Information:
 http://www.festival-avignon.com  or +33-4-9014-1460.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the auction
market,  Warwick Thompson  on London theater and  Jason Harper  
on cars.  To contact the writer on this story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 