-- Olympic Champions Dash Around London Stage in ‘Chariots’
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-07-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/olympic-champions-dash-around-london-stage-in-chariots-review.html
The Olympic-themed “Chariots of
Fire,” adapted by Mike Bartlett from the Academy Award-winning
movie of 1981, arrives at the  Gielgud Theatre  in London.  The feel-good show, which had a tryout in Hampstead, milks
the interest surrounding the coming London games.  It tells the true story of two runners who fought to
compete in the 1924 Olympics in Paris. Harold Abrahams (James
McArdle), a wealthy Jewish student at  Cambridge University ,
overcomes upper-class anti-Semitic prejudice to be accepted as
an athlete.  “His father’s a financier,” comments the narrow-minded
head of Abrahams’s college. “What on earth does that mean?”
splutters a doddery don. “I believe it’s a euphemism,” comes
the reply.  The other runner is Eric Liddell (Jack Lowden), a devout
Scottish Christian who runs for the glory of God. His family
accuses him of running for the glory of his own ego, and he has
to convince them otherwise.  Later, when Liddell finds that an Olympic 100-meter race is
scheduled for a Sunday, he refuses to run on the Sabbath. The
British Olympic Committee is furious. Even the Prince of  Wales 
can’t persuade Liddell to change his mind.  Gold Medals  Things work out when another competitor drops out of the
400-meter race to allow Liddell to compete in his place.  Self sacrifice. Courage. Conviction. Play up and play the
game! That sort of thing.  I hope there won’t be accusations of plot-spoiling with the
revelation that both men get gold medals, while the famous theme
tune written by Vangelis for the movie thunders out. It’s that
sort of show. Sometimes effective, yes. Complex? No.  The fact that Abrahams later finished last in the 200-meter
race isn’t mentioned. A hero who doesn’t win everything? A
character whose self-sacrifice doesn’t pay off? What next?  Far too dangerous to feed those sorts of things to an
audience. They might start agitating for some Chekhov.  Director Edward Hall creates a slick production on a
central revolving stage. A looped running track curves around it
and stretches into the auditorium (designs Miriam Buether). The
track runs in front of stadium-type audience seats on stage too.  Whizzing Around  The very fit members of the male ensemble whizz around it a
lot, recreating many of the races, and no doubt punishing their
ankles in the process.  The problem is that once you’ve seen them run around it
once, it loses its attraction. Thoughts of hamsters and wheels
spring to mind. The 2 hours and 30 minutes the play lasts feels
overlong in places.  There are other enjoyments. Abrahams falls in love with a
soprano called Sybil Evers (Savannah Stevenson), and a neatly
staged performance of the trio “Three Little Maids” from “The
Mikado” shows her at work.  The whole ensemble, which seems to be as musical as it is
muscular, picks up instruments to entertain the audience with
“Rule Britannia” and “A Policeman’s Lot” before Act 2.  McArdle captures Abrahams’s ruthless determination and
fighting spirit, and Nicholas Woodeson is delightful as his
crotchety-yet-loveable trainer Sam Mussabini. Lowden is a
blander figure as Liddell: You rarely feel the fire of his
religious passion or love of running, even when he’s battling
the aggressive Olympic Committee.  The rest of the ensemble is good, and it’s hard not to
leave the theater humming that Vangelis melody. Thoughts of the
traffic jams, disturbances and disruptions in the U.K. capital
during this summer’s games are banished for a few moments.
Rating: **.  “Chariots of Fire” is at the Gielgud Theatre,  London .
Information:  http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk  or
+44-844-482-5136.  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the auction market,
 Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art and  Jason Harper  on cars.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 