-- Monti Should Remain in Power After 2013 Elections, Mundell Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-07-04T12:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/monti-should-remain-in-power-after-2013-elections-mundell-says.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
should stay in power after next year’s elections to support the
country saddled with the euro area’s second-largest  debt , said
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Robert Mundell .  “Although he is not a magician, he is probably going to be
the best next thing for Italy politically,” Mundell said in an
interview in Rome today. “Continuation of Monti is probably
better than any of the political alternatives at the moment.”  Italian bond yields dropped on June 29 after European
leaders meeting in Brussels agreed to loosen bailout rules, move
toward a banking union and break the link between sovereign and
banking debt through the direct recapitalization of lenders.
While the  International Monetary Fund  recommended last month
that euro-area nations issue common debt, calling the crisis at
a “critical stage,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  remains
opposed to debt sharing.  The  premium  investors demand to hold Italian 10-year debt
over comparable German  government bonds  rose 15 basis points to
424.4 basis points as of 2:30 p.m. in Rome.  Shrinking Economy  Italy’s recession-hit economy will shrink 2.4 percent this
year, twice the pace predicted by the government, as rising
unemployment causes a slump in  consumer spending , employers’
lobby Confindustria forecast on June 28. Italy’s debt will rise
to 125.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2012 before
peaking at 125.8 percent next year, the group said.  Italy’s main political parties, which suspended their
rivalries to support Monti after he was appointed in November,
have seen their backing plummet to the lowest in about two
decades, opinion polls showed last month.  Monti “is the one that so far commands prestige and
respect and, although I think there hasn’t been any great
solution yet, he is new in the job and would be much better in
the next round,” Mundell said. “Also, he has got close
connections to Merkel and I think that is money in the bank.”  Monti and Merkel are meeting in Rome later today. Mundell,
79, won the  Nobel Prize  in 1999 for research that helped to lay
the foundation for Europe’s single currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  