-- Monti, Merkel Pledge to Cooperate on Crisis After Summit Discord
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-07-04T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/monti-merkel-pledge-to-cooperate-on-crisis-after-summit-discord.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, who wrangled over bailout
policy last week, promised to work together in response to
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  Germany  and  Italy  are “decisively committed to resolve
these difficulties together,” Merkel said at a joint press
conference with Monti yesterday in  Rome . “These are very
important talks during a time that hasn’t been easy, but a time
in which we’re willing to overcome the difficulties we find
ourselves in together.”  Germany is facing escalating costs tied to bailing out
weaker partners in the 17-nation euro area, while Italy’s
ability to refinance its debt is threatened by an increase in
bond yields. The two leaders clashed at a European Union summit
in Brussels last week, pushing negotiations through the night of
June 28 before coming to terms on new guidelines for future
rescues.  “It is an ever more frequent pleasure for me to meet
Angela Merkel,” said Monti, who hosted the German leader in
Rome on June 22 for a summit with French President  Francois Hollande  and Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy .  The meetings in Rome and Brussels softened Merkel’s
opposition to conceding troubled nations more flexibility on
bailout terms. In Rome two weeks ago, Merkel parried attempts by
Monti, Hollande and Rajoy for an expanded mandate for the euro-
region’s rescue funds. Last week in Brussels, she gave ground.  ‘Efficient Manner’  The European Stability Mechanism will be used “in a
flexible and efficient manner” under eased conditions, euro-
area leaders said in a June 29 statement. The tools include bond
buying and direct aid payments to banks, provided the bloc
establishes a central bank-oversight capacity.  “What’s important for me is that these things are done on
the basis of current rules,” Merkel said yesterday. “That
means that we’ve developed these instruments, that we’re
committed to these instruments, and that anybody that gets in
trouble -- although as  Mario Monti  explained, this isn’t
necessary for Italy -- has access to it.”  Monti, prompted by a reporter’s question, reiterated that
Italy wasn’t currently seeking aid from Europe.  Italy “isn’t making a request to use the existing
mechanisms today” because of the government’s deficit cutting
efforts, Monti said.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield rose 14 basis points to 5.77
percent yesterday. The yield has fallen 43 basis points since
Monti, Merkel and other European leaders announced their
agreement from Brussels early June 29. The yield was 4.99
percent on March 8.  Monti pushed Merkel into an agreement in Brussels by
joining with Spain’s Rajoy in a threat to block a disbursement
of EU funds toward growth initiatives. In an interview published
in yesterday’s  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung , Monti said the
power play was “no revolution, rather much more a classic
negotiating method.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  