-- Pena Nieto Maintains Lead in Mexican Presidential Vote Recount
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-07-05T14:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/lopez-obrador-alleges-mexico-election-fraud-and-seeks-recount.html
Enrique Pena Nieto remains the winner
of Mexico’s presidential vote as electoral authorities near
completion of a recount of ballots amid allegations of vote-
buying by the  Institutional Revolutionary Party .  With 91.3 percent of the official vote count completed,
Pena Nieto of the PRI has 38.4 percent support, compared with
31.4 percent for Andres Manuel  Lopez Obrador . The figures are
similar to those in a preliminary count challenged by Lopez
Obrador.  The official count includes a recount of 54.5 percent
ballot boxes used in the July 1 election, the Federal Electoral
Institute, or IFE, said yesterday. Lopez Obrador of the
Democratic Revolution Party has challenged preliminary results
that awarded the presidency to Pena Nieto, calling the contest
“a national embarrassment” and accusing the PRI of spending
“billions of pesos” to regain power after a 12-year hiatus.
His coalition said it had detected irregularities at more than
half of the country’s polling stations.  “We’re not asking for any favors, we’re asking for the law
to be respected,” Lopez Obrador told reporters July 3 at his
campaign headquarters in  Mexico  City. “All the votes must be
counted.”  Preliminary  results  from the IFE show Pena Nieto captured
38.2 percent of votes, compared with 31.6 percent for Lopez
Obrador. Pena Nieto received 3.19 million votes more than Lopez
Obrador, the data show.  Transparent  The results of the presidential recount should be ready
today, after which authorities will reopen more than 60 percent
of the ballot boxes in congressional races, Edmundo Jacobo
Molina, executive secretary of IFE, said yesterday.  Mexican authorities are calling the July 1 vote the most-
transparent in the country’s history and a mission of foreign
observers led by former Colombian President Cesar Gaviria also
gave their approval, saying that whatever irregularities were
detected don’t take away from what was a well-run election.  Dozens of protesters gathered July 3 outside IFE’s main
office in Mexico City, shouting anti-PRI and anti-Pena Nieto
chants. They were separated from the complex’s gates by a two-
deep cordon of at least 100 police officers clad in green
reflective jackets.  The PRI denies Lopez Obrador’s allegations.  “The charges are offensive to the dignity of all the
voters who supported Pena Nieto, because they allege that
Mexican voters are susceptible to vote buying,” party spokesman
Eduardo Sanchez said in a phone interview July 2.  2006 Protests  Lopez Obrador, 58, lost the 2006 election to current
President  Felipe Calderon  by less than a percentage point. To
protest the result, which he said was fraudulent, he occupied
Mexico City’s central plaza and main business avenue for weeks
with encampments.  The candidate has given no indication he will follow a
similar strategy this time round, instead saying complaints
about the election will be filed to the electoral institute.  Mexico’s peso gained less than 0.1 percent to 13.3337
against the  U.S. dollar  yesterday. Yields on benchmark peso
bonds maturing in 2024 have fallen 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to a record low 5.39 percent since the
election.  The market is shrugging off Lopez Obrador’s refusal to
concede defeat, said Claudio Irigoyen, head of Latin America
fixed-income and foreign-exchange strategy at Bank of America
Corp.  “He’ll probably keep barking, but that’s all that’s going
to happen,” Irigoyen said in a phone interview from  New York .
Six years ago, Lopez Obrador “might have had a point because it
was a close election, now nobody has a doubt that Pena Nieto won
so I think it’s going nowhere.”  Not 2006  In 2006, the peso lost 6.3 percent in the six months
leading up to the election. This year, it gained 4.3 percent
over the same period, making it the best performer among major
currencies.  “Once the results are confirmed the markets are going to
focus on the ability of Pena Nieto to make a coalition with  PAN 
to pass his reforms,” Irigoyen said, referring to Calderon’s
 National Action Party .  Pena Nieto has pledged initiatives to increase Mexico’s tax
collection, boost formal employment and allow greater private
investment in the oil industry.  Lopez Obrador said that Pena Nieto was favored by Mexico’s
media during the campaign and the PRI exceeded spending limits
established by the electoral authority.  The buying of votes “is a subject of legality,” said
Senator Alberto Anaya, of the  Labor Party , a member of the
coalition supporting Lopez Obrador.  “The recount will permit a complete view of the results of
the election,” Anaya said in an interview in Mexico City
following Lopez Obrador’s July 3 press conference. “It’s
something that the law establishes, that when there are
inconsistencies in the acts and elements of the vote, a recount
is obligatory.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 