-- More Than 1.37 Million Without Power After U.S. Storm
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-07-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/more-than-1-37-million-without-power-after-u-s-storm.html
Five days after a line of severe
storms swept across the mid-Atlantic and Midwest, more than 1.37
million customers remain  without power  as utility companies
responded to unexpected damage across 10 U.S. states.  The storm system, known as a derecho, brought 91 mile (146
kilometer) per hour winds, rain and lightning, disrupting
electricity for as many as 4.3 million customers from  North
Carolina  to  New Jersey . The widespread blackouts are the worst
in the U.S. since Hurricane Irene struck in August. Utilities
said the effects were equivalent to a hurricane.  “The storm came in with no warning, no one had time to
prepare,” Gregg Edeson, a partner in the global energy section
of PA Consulting Group and a former utility lineman, said in a
phone interview. “The lightning in these storms went after the
transformers which affects a wider area than trees falling on
 power lines .”  Temperatures above 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees
Celsius) have increased pressure on utilities to restore power.
Some may not get electricity back until July 10, according to
utility companies.  At least 23 people were killed by the storm system, the
 Associated Press  reported. A  derecho  is a widespread wind storm
with gusts of at least 58 mph, according to the  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration .  ‘Hurricane Punch’  The storm had “a hurricane punch without a  hurricane
warning ,”  Maryland  Governor  Martin O’Malley  said at a press
conference yesterday. O’Malley said it wasn’t possible for local
utilities to have brought in outside workers to have more staff
in place for restoration efforts before the storm.  Gusts from the storm system were clocked at 91 mph near
Fort Wayne, Indiana, and 71 mph at Dulles airport in northern
Virginia, the  National Weather Service  said.  “Devastating winds and rain that ripped through Maryland
last Friday left considerable damage, much of which still
remains,”  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s Baltimore Gas & Electric said in a
statement yesterday. The utility has restored power to 75
percent of its customers and expects work to continue into the
coming weekend.  Washington remains under a state of emergency because of
storm damage, with recreation centers and libraries opened as
cooling centers for residents.  ‘Fed Up’  “This has happened repeatedly, we’ve had  power outage 
after power outage in the  District of Columbia  and people are
fed up with it,” Washington Mayor Vincent Gray, whose own home
doesn’t have electricity, said on CNN yesterday. Gray said the
city’s utility,  Pepco Holdings Inc. (POM) , should bury power lines
underground.  Temperatures are forecast to be in the 90s for the rest of
the week in the city, peaking at 99 this weekend, according to
the National Weather Service.  “The intense heat combined with lack of power continues to
be a real and ongoing safety concern for us,” Virginia Governor
Bob McDonnell said in a statement yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  July 1 declared  West Virginia  and
Ohio federal disaster areas. The District of Columbia has
requested disaster status.  “Normally a storm like that would have its intensity
drained by the Blue Ridge Mountains, but that didn’t happen,”
said Dan Riedinger, a spokesman for the Edison Electric
Institute, a Washington-based organization that represents
 utility companies . “There was too much humidity and heat which
kept fueling the storm and caused widespread outages very
quickly.”  Midwestern Help  Midwestern states that would normally provide additional
crews to restore power were also hit by the storm, delaying the
arrival of extra help, Riedinger said. There were 30,000 people
working to restore power as of yesterday.  Pepco, the Washington-based utility owner, said 99,285 were
without power yesterday.  “I’ve been flooded with complaints about Pepco’s poor
performance and my tolerance with them has reached it’s end,”
Roger Berliner, president of the Montgomery County Council in
Maryland, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “They didn’t
start going into neighborhoods to repair damage as they
‘assessed’ the situation, but every day matters.”  Hurricane Irene , which made landfall in North Carolina on
Aug. 27, caused blackouts for more than 5.6 million customers in
eight states, the U.S. Energy Department  reported .  The most recent storm affected as many as 4.3 million
customers, according to the Edison Electric Institute. Along
with Washington, there was damage in North Carolina, Virginia,
West Virginia, Kentucky, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Maryland and New Jersey.  AEP Blackouts  Dominion Resources Inc., based in Richmond, Virginia, and
owner of the state’s largest utility, had 115,835 customers
without service yesterday, according to its website. The company
sees power returning to “virtually all” customers by July 8.
Almost 1 million of its 2.4 million customers lost power because
of the storms.  First Energy Corp. had restored power to 77 percent of its
customers across three states.  American Electric Power Co., which had more than 1.4
million customers affected, reported about 650,000 homes and
businesses without electricity in Ohio, Virginia and West
Virginia yesterday. The company, which said the storm was the
worst since Hurricane Ike in 2008, sees restoration efforts
continuing through July 10 in some areas, according to its
 website .  “Friends were swimming in the pool, and we were about to
serve a meal, and suddenly we heard sizzling and popping and saw
steam coming out of the transformer,” said Jane Page, 50, a
Anneslie, Maryland, resident who has been without power for
three days. “It went out, and power has been out since.”  More Heat  Heat will bear down on the central U.S. from Missouri to
the mid-Atlantic states until the weekend, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  “We should see lots more 100-degree readings, especially
in the southern Midwest, Plains and interior Deep South,”
Rogers said. “Cities like Chicago and into the mid-Atlantic
should also pick up a few more century readings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Haas in  New York  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  