-- Thousands of Americans Lacking Power Amid Heat Wave
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2012-07-05T15:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/more-than-1-million-without-power-after-u-s-storm.html
Six days after severe storms swept
across the mid-Atlantic and Midwest, hundreds of thousands
remain without power as temperatures are forecast to reach
triple digits.  The temperature is expected to reach 100 degrees Fahrenheit
(38 Celsius) in Washington today and tomorrow and peak at 103
this weekend, according to the  National Weather Service .
Baltimore will reach 101 today and 102 this weekend. The
National Climatic Data Center said 108 temperature records were
set or tied as the U.S. celebrated Independence Day yesterday.  More than  616,000 people  still lack electricity after the
June 29 storm as of 9 a.m., a 41 percent decrease from
yesterday, according to the U.S. Energy Department. Daily
average temperatures are forecast to be at least 8 degrees
higher than normal in the Midwest and mid-Atlantic through July
9 before more seasonal conditions return, according to  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
Maryland.  “Widespread 100s from Chicago into many parts of the
southern Midwest extends into the mid-Atlantic before the
conclusion of the current, record-breaking heat wave this
weekend,” Rogers said.  A storm system known as a derecho, with lightning and wind
gusts of 91 miles (146 kilometers) per hour, took out  power
lines  and transformers in 10 states and the  District of
Columbia . The storm, which disrupted electricity for as many as
4.3 million customers from North Carolina to  New Jersey , caused
the most widespread blackouts since  Hurricane Irene  struck in
August.  Fireworks Canceled  Fourth of July fireworks in Gaithersburg, Maryland, and
 Rockville, Maryland,  were canceled because of storm damage,
according to the towns’ websites. Some customers may not get
electricity back until July 10, according to  utility companies .  At least 26 people were killed by the storm or its
aftermath, the  Associated Press  reported. Hurricane Irene, which
made landfall in North Carolina on Aug. 27, caused blackouts for
more than 5.6 million customers in eight states, the Energy
Department reported.  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ’s Baltimore Gas & Electric has restored
electricity to almost 92 percent of the more than 700,000
customers affected by the storm. The company expects restoration
work to continue through the weekend, according to a  statement 
today.  Dominion Power  Pepco Holdings Inc. (POM) , which delivers power in the Washington
area, had restored service to about 89 percent of its affected
customers as of yesterday.  Dominion Resources Inc. (D) , the largest utility in Virginia,
has restored service to more than 95 percent of the 1 million
customers that lost power from the storm.  Almost all of the company’s customers in Northern Virginia
and the Richmond metropolitan area will have power restored by
tomorrow night after “the largest non-hurricane event in the
company’s history,” Dominion said in a statement yesterday.  American Electric Power Co. still had more than 400,000
customers without electricity as of yesterday and some repairs
will continue through July 10. More than 1.4 million of the
Columbus, Ohio-based company’s customers were affected by a
storm it said was the worst since Hurricane Ike in 2008.  On July 1, President  Barack Obama  declared West Virginia
and Ohio federal disaster areas. Other states affected were
Virginia, Kentucky, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Delaware and New
Jersey, according to the Edison Electric Institute, a
Washington-based group that represents utilities.  ‘Smaller Increments’  “With a hurricane you get pretty good advance warning,”
said Jim Owen, a spokesman for Edison Electric. “In this case,
that just didn’t happen and people find that frustrating. The
storm just came out of nowhere.”  Progress in restoring power may be slower in the coming
days, Owen said in a phone interview yesterday.  “At the beginning you are able to take actions that
restore larger numbers of people, but as you get further down
into it, you restore smaller increments,” Owen said. “If you
don’t have your electricity back, you’re not in a happy place
because it’s still in the high 90s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Haas in  New York  at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  