-- Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed; UBS, Sonova Shares Fall
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-04T15:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/most-swiss-stocks-retreat-ubs-declines.html
Swiss stocks  were little changed
after the Swiss Market Index reached the highest level in more
than two months yesterday, while investors awaited tomorrow’s
central-bank policy meetings.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest lender, slid 1 percent,
following a measure of European banks lower.  Sonova Holding AG (SOON) ,
the hearing-aid maker, slipped 1.5 percent, the most in almost a
week.  Clariant AG (CLN) , the world’s biggest maker of printing-ink
chemicals, added 0.8 percent.  The  SMI (SMI)  increased 0.1 percent to 6,201.31 at the close of
trading in Zurich, as more than three stocks gained for every
one that dropped. The gauge has  rallied 4.5 percent this year  as
the  European Central Bank  disbursed 1 trillion euros ($1.25
trillion) to financial companies and the region’s leaders opened
the door to directly recapitalizing lenders using the European
Stability Mechanism. The Swiss Performance Index also added 0.1
percent today.  “Turnover is likely to remain rather low today, with
 Independence Day  in the U.S. and ahead of tomorrow’s interest-
rate decisions of the ECB and BOE,” Benno Galliker, a trader at
Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in Lucerne, Switzerland, wrote in a
note.  U.S. equity markets are closed for the Independence Day
holiday today. The volume of shares changing hands in companies
listed on the SMI was 44 percent lower than the average of the
last 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rate Decisions  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt tomorrow will lower
their benchmark  interest rate  below 1 percent for the first time
to 0.75 percent, according to a  Bloomberg News survey  of
economists. They will cut their deposit rate to zero.  The  Bank of England  will also announce its interest-rate
decision tomorrow.  In the U.K., a gauge of services industries based on a
survey of  purchasing managers  fell to 51.3 in June, an eight-
month low, Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  said. That missed the  median forecast  of
52.9 in a Bloomberg survey of 25 economists. A measure above 50
means that services expanded.  A separate release from Markit today showed euro-area
 services and manufacturing output  contracted for a fifth month
in June.  UBS slid 1 percent to 11.15 Swiss francs as a gauge of
European banks declined. U.S. regulators released summaries of
plans for breaking up nine of the world’s largest banks,
including UBS and Credit Suisse Group AG. The  Federal Reserve 
and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. have drawn up the so-
called living wills to avoid taxpayers having to bail out
lenders in a future financial crisis.  Sonova, the hearing-aid maker, slipped 1.5 percent to 94.50
francs, its biggest retreat since June 28.  Clariant gained 0.8 percent to 9.88 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  