-- Tottenham’s Villas-Boas Gets $78 Million for Signings: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-04T07:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/tottenham-s-villas-boas-gets-78-million-for-signings-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Transfer Kitty  Tottenham Hotspur is ready to give new manager Andre Villas-Boas a 50 million-pound ($78.3 million) transfer kitty,
which will be boosted by the sale of midfielders Luka Modric and
 Rafael van der Vaart , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Spurs will try to bring in Marseille striker Loic Remy,
Ajax defender Jan Vertonghen, Hoffenheim midfielder Gylfi
Sigurdsson, CSKA Moscow midfielder Alan Dzagoev and Birmingham
goalkeeper Jack Butland, the newspaper said.  Priority Target  Villas-Boas made the acquisition of Portugal midfielder
Joao Moutinho a priority as he plans an overhaul of the
Tottenham squad, the  Guardian reported .  Manchester United  also has been linked with Moutinho and
Spurs chairman  Daniel Levy  would have to sanction a club-record
fee to sign a player valued at 35 million euros ($44 million) by
his club Porto, the newspaper added.  ‘At All Costs’  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  is ready to break up the
club’s pay structure to prevent striker  Robin van Persie  from
leaving, the  Sun reported .  “We need to keep Robin van Persie at all costs because we
depend on him offensively,” the Sun cited Wenger as saying.
“I’ve always supported him, even in the hardest of times. Now I
hope he’ll end his career at Arsenal.”  Napoli Targets  Italian club Napoli is preparing a move for Liverpool
defender Martin Skrtel and Chelsea midfielder  Raul Meireles 
after selling forward Ezequiel Lavezzi to Paris Saint-Germain
for 24 million pounds, the  Daily Mail reported .  Nani Nervous  Manchester United winger Nani fears being sold by the club
after talks on a new contract broke down and wants his future
sorted out in the next two weeks, the  Sun reported .  United proposed a raise of as much as 40,000 pounds a week,
though the player’s demands are said to have exceeded what was
on offer, the newspaper added.  Final Year  United striker  Dimitar Berbatov  is prepared to see out the
final year of his contract and leave as a free agent rather than
help facilitate a move this off-season by taking a pay cut, the
 Mirror reported .  United values Berbatov at 6 million pounds after extending
his deal by 12 months, meaning he would cost about 15 million
pounds in salary and transfer fee if another club signed him on
a two-year contract, the Mirror added  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  