-- P&G Plays Kindergarten Catch-Up With Unilever in Vietnam
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-07-04T16:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/p-g-plays-kindergarten-catch-up-with-unilever-in-vietnam.html
A kindergarten opened on June 1 in
Minh Phuong, a village about 50 miles from Hanoi. It looks like
many schools in  developing countries : cinder block walls painted
mustard and tile floors.  There’s something unique about the classrooms. Each has a
silver-colored plaque near its door emblazoned with names rarely
found in a textbook: “Gillette Be Your Best,” “Pampers Golden
Sleep,” and “Pantene Shine.”  These are all references to  brands  sold in  Vietnam  by
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , whose employees helped provide almost 80
percent of the school’s $100,000 cost. The world’s  largest 
consumer-products company is using everything from donations to
 television advertising  and hand-washing demonstrations to win
Vietnamese customers.  It’s not alone: Anglo-Dutch rival Unilever, which has done
business in Asian markets for more than a century, has proven to
be a particularly tough  competitor . Others such as Kimberly-
Clark Corp. and  Germany ’s  Beiersdorf AG (BEI)  have staked their claims
there as economic growth ripples farther south in  Asia .  P&G is keen to hook customers while they’re young, a no-
brainer in a country where 45 percent of the population is under
25. Once in the P&G fold, customers can be introduced to an
expanding range of products as they grow older, and more
prosperous. While Vietnam’s economy has cooled in recent months
because of  inflation , slower labor growth, and currency
devaluations, per capita income grew more than fivefold from
$220 in 1994 to $1,168 in 2010, according to the U.S. Department
of State.  Aspirational Consumers  Better yet, the country’s 90 million  people  increasingly
are eager to buy Western brands they deem superior to many local
and regional products. Consumer executives say Vietnamese are
more aspirational than consumers with comparable incomes in
other developing nations. That’s one reason global companies
already established in  China ,  Brazil , and  India  are turning
their attention to Vietnam as the next great emerging market.  P&G could certainly use a boost. The company last month cut
its  profit forecast  for the third time this year, as it grapples
with flagging growth and market-share losses in the U.S. and
 Europe . Meanwhile, developing markets are expected to account
for 37 percent of P&G sales this year, up from 35 percent in
fiscal 2011. Although more than half of  Unilever (UNA) ’s  sales  already
come from developing and emerging markets, P&G executives
believe there’s plenty of room for the Cincinnati-based company
to squeeze into places like Minh Phuong.  Growth Engines  “Vietnam is a young culture, very interested in trying new
things, so you don’t have to be the 100-year incumbent to be
able to win,” said Deb Henretta, group president of P&G’s Asia
business. Vietnam and other Asian countries, including potential
markets such as Myanmar, are “the growth engines for the
company.”  For decades, U.S. companies couldn’t operate in Vietnam
because of an American trade embargo imposed after the fall of
Saigon in 1975. A year after the embargo was lifted in 1994, P&G
entered the country, as did  Unilever. (ULVR)   Today P&G, the No. 1 provider of detergents, tooth paste,
paper towels, and razors in the U.S., finds itself in the
uncharacteristic position of playing catch-up in Vietnam.
Unilever has grabbed more market share in home-care and
personal-care products. P&G trails Huggies maker  Kimberly-Clark (KMB) 
in diapers, and in skin care it’s behind Beiersdorf, maker of
Nivea. It’s No. 1 only in razors with its Gillette  brand .  ‘Fierce Competition’  “Vietnam is the next upcoming market, and there’s fierce
competition,” said Oru Mohiuddin of researcher Euromonitor
International.  Sales of diapers, home-and-personal care products, and
beauty goods by all manufacturers totaled $1.35 billion in the
country last year, a 14 percent increase over 2010, according to
Euromonitor. While that’s minuscule compared with P&G’s global
sales last year of $82.6 billion, Vietnam is expected to be one
of the fastest-growing  emerging markets , according to
Euromonitor, with  consumer spending  forecast to jump 42 percent
between 2012 and 2016.  P&G is betting on the appetite in Vietnam for premium
brands, such as its Olay skin whiteners, and that its larger
range of products will give it an advantage over Unilever. It’s
also producing lower-cost merchandise that can be bought by
consumers with modest incomes who can trade up later.  All Levels  “We want to win with all levels of consumers,” said
Henretta.  The company advertises heavily on television, the most
influential medium in a country. Last year its representatives
cruised the country in a brightly colored van -- displaying the
logos of Rejoice hair care, Olay skin care, and Gillette brands
-- to find contestants for the inaugural season of Vietnam’s Got
Talent, for which P&G is the sole sponsor. The company operates
a boat in the Mekong Delta region to reach rural households
living on the water, selling inexpensive one-use packets of
products like Downy Single Rinse for soaking clothes.  The marketing studies for which the company is known -- it
conducted more than 100 home visits in Vietnam last year --
uncovered new uses for some brands. Consider Ambi Pur, the
deodorizer sold as Febreze in the U.S. and often used on
upholstered furniture. P&G realized it might appeal to
Vietnamese who ride motorbikes, Vietnam’s primary form of
transportation, after the government passed a law five years ago
requiring the use of helmets.  Deodorizing Helmets  In a country with a humid subtropical climate, P&G this
spring set up “spray stations” in front of shopping centers,
to demonstrate Ambi Pur’s properties. Consumers of all income
levels are deodorizing their helmets with Ambi Pur, now one of
the company’s fastest-growing products in the country.  Even some poor Vietnamese consumers took to Downy Passion,
a scented upscale fabric softener which masks smells that can
occur when clothes are soaked overnight in less-than-clean
water. P&G initially had focused on selling larger containers at
modern retailers, said Sam Kim, vice president for  Southeast
Asia  & Asia developing markets. It quickly found that small,
cheaper one-use packets became best-sellers in traditional mom-
and-pop stores in Vietnam, where per-capita  income  is still less
than one-third that of China.  Charitable Arm  P&G has opened two plants in the country, most recently one
for diapers in 2010, and has more than 900 employees. And like
many global companies doing business in Vietnam, it has a
charitable arm that brings health, educational, and other
services to impoverished areas. In exchange, P&G gets to promote
its brands to the communities it helps.  “They have to do this propaganda-esque process to
eventually have a consumer who wants to buy their products, said
Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Ali Dibadj . ‘‘It’s a time-tested
tool that companies use.’’  On a recent afternoon, P&G hosted a hand-washing event in
the primary school down the road from the new kindergarten in
Minh Phuong. Kids learned songs in English from 15 company
employees, followed by a sing-off in the courtyard with an
Olympic-style panel of judges holding up number scores. The
students performed in front of a red-and-gold banner (the colors
of Vietnam’s flag) that said, in Vietnamese and imperfect
English, ‘‘Together let’s wash our hand with soap!”  Hygiene Quizzes  There were hygiene quizzes, with gift bags awarded for
correct answers, and then the classes competed in a relay race -
- using bars of P&G’s Safeguard antibacterial soap -- to perform
six steps of thorough hand washing. Everyone got a goody bag at
the end, containing an Oral-B toothbrush, school supplies, and
other items. The school received a box of Safeguard soap.  That evening, in a driving rain, a few hundred villagers
gathered under a tent in the courtyard of the kindergarten to
watch students and teachers perform dances and songs. P&G’s
Henretta was among those invited onto a makeshift stage to talk
about the company. As she held up products from its Tide, Downy,
Rejoice, Gillette, Safeguard, and Oral-B brands, Henretta asked
the audience to clap if they recognized them. Meanwhile, some of
the company’s volunteers mimed washing their clothes or hair to
make sure villagers understood the products’ use.  The evening ended with everyone hopping through a row of
parallel bamboo poles in a traditional dance, as P&G’s
volunteers shouted a refrain from a song, “Vietnam, Ho Chi
Minh! Vietnam, Ho Chi Minh!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
 James Ellis  at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  