-- Yasser Arafat Corpse to Be Exhumed Next Week in Poison Probe
-- B y   F a d w a   H o d a l i
-- 2012-11-24T12:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/palestinians-prepared-to-exhume-arafat-seeking-cause-of-death.html
The corpse of former Palestinian
leader Yasser Arafat will be exhumed next week to investigate
allegations he was poisoned, a senior Palestinian official said.  Arafat’s tomb in the West Bank city of Ramallah will be
opened on Nov. 27, Tawfiq Tirawi, a member of the  Palestinian
Authority ’s central committee, said today.  Arafat’s wife, Suha, had requested an autopsy to search for
traces of a poisonous substance. She told  Al Jazeera  in July
that a Swiss laboratory had detected high levels of the
radioactive isotope polonium in Arafat’s clothes, which have
been in storage since his death in 2004. Palestinians have
accused Israel of causing Arafat’s death, though no conclusive
evidence has been presented publicly. Israel denies killing him.  The process of opening Arafat’s grave will be medically and
legally supervised by the Palestinian Authority with teams of
experts from Switzerland,  France  and Russia, Tirawi told
reporters in Ramallah. The tomb will be closed again within a
few hours after testing, and no member of the Arafat family will
be present, he said.  “The file of this case will be opened until we get to the
person who did it,” Tirawi said.  Arafat, who founded the  Palestine Liberation Organization ,
died in a French hospital at the age of 75. Doctors at the Percy
military hospital in Clamart, France, said he suffered from a
brain hemorrhage and fell into a coma before he died. He is
buried below a glass tomb adjacent to the offices of his
successor,  Mahmoud Abbas .  Polonium, which had been stirred into a cup of tea, was
identified as the substance that killed  Alexander Litvinenko , a
former KGB agent who became a critic of the Russian government.
Litvinenko died in 2006 after being poisoned in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fadwa Hodali in the West Bank at  fhodali@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  