-- Peru Police Arrest Newmont Protesters Amid Emergency Measure
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-07-04T18:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/peru-calls-state-of-emergency-in-cajamarca-after-deadly-protests.html
Peruvian police cracked down on
protests against  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) ’s $4.8 billion Minas Conga
after the government declared a state of emergency following the
death of three people in demonstrations yesterday.  Police used tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse
protesters this morning from the main square of Cajamarca, the
capital of the northern Andean region that’s been rocked by
eight months of anti-mining protests, Lima-based Canal N
reported. Police arrested Marco Arana, head of a group that
opposes Minas Conga, along with six other protesters, the
television channel said. The opponents say the mine’s
environmental impact study is flawed.  The government granted police emergency powers for 30 days
to restore order in three provinces of the Cajamarca region
where Newmont plans to build the copper and gold mine. The
measure comes a week after Newmont was cleared to resume work
that was halted in November when its installations in the area
were destroyed during six days of protests. President  Ollanta Humala  allowed the restart by the largest U.S. gold producer
after it pledged to build reservoirs to ensure water supplies
for communities.  The clashes are a result of Humala’s government refusing to
negotiate with those opposed to the project, regional president
Gregorio Santos told Lima-based Radio Programas yesterday.
Newmont is committed to talks and to the region, according to an
e-mail from the company’s local unit late yesterday.  Celendin Riot  Three people were killed yesterday after as many as 2,000
people planned to storm municipal offices in Celendin, close to
where the mine will be built, Radio Programas reported. The
protesters set fire to vehicles and attacked other government
buildings in the town, the  Interior Ministry  said. The violence
also left 25 people injured, including two police officers who
were shot in the leg, the ministry said.  Celendin Mayor Mauro Arteaga voiced support for Minas Conga
following a June 28 meeting in Lima between Humala and 65 mayors
from the Cajamarca region.  The unrest will damage Humala’s popularity among his rural
support base and may lead more lawmakers to defect from his
party, following the departure of four congressmen last month
after clashes in Cuzco near  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s Tintaya copper mine
left two dead, said Diego Moya-Ocampos, a London-based analyst
at IHS Global Insight.  “Humala’s stance is a clear sign that he is committed to
continue supporting extractive industries as part of his plan to
generate growth based on a social inclusion model, whatever the
political cost,” Moya-Ocampos said in an e-mailed statement.  State of Emergency  The state of emergency suspends the freedom of movement and
assembly and allows police to make arrests without a warrant
while authorizing the armed forces to help the police maintain
order.  Humala has used the measure three times since taking office
last July to quell escalating unrest threatening more than $50
billion of planned mining investment in the next decade.  Newmont, which has invested $800 million in Conga to date,
will spend $95 million on the construction of four reservoirs,
Conga Project Manager Luis Arguelles said June 25.  “We renew our commitment to Cajamarca and to our faith in
dialogue as a bridge to achieve understanding between
everyone,” the statement from Newmont’s local unit said.  Newmont rose for a fourth day in Frankfurt trading, adding
0.3 percent to 39.42 euros. Newmont’s Peruvian partner in the
Minas Conga project, Cia de Minas Buenaventura SAA, climbed 2.1
percent to $38.80 in  Lima  trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  