-- Philippine Peso Falls From 4-Year High After Central Bank Pledge
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-07-04T04:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/philippine-peso-falls-from-4-year-high-after-central-bank-pledge.html
The Philippine peso retreated from a
four-year high after the central bank pledged to curb excessive
volatility in the currency.  Government bonds  advanced.  The peso snapped a six-day gain after Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said in an e-mailed reply to
questions yesterday that the monetary authority is “watchful
for signs the speculative part is not overtaking the fundamental
flows.” The economy, while supported by state spending,
agriculture and services sectors, is not immune to risks posed
by a sputtering U.S. recovery,  Europe ’s debt crisis and  China ’s
slowdown, Tetangco said in a speech today.  “The central bank is on top of the situation and
authorities are monitoring the flows,” said Lito Mercado, head
of trading at Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. in Manila. “These
are good levels for importers to buy dollars as well.”  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 41.750 per dollar at the noon
trading break in  Manila  after rising as much as 0.3 percent
earlier, data from Tullett Prebon showed. It touched 41.600, the
strongest level since April 2008. One-month implied volatility,
a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 10
basis points to 6.0 percent.  Non-deliverable forwards and the central bank’s special
deposit accounts “are possible points of entry into our
domestic market for foreign investors to participate in
speculative activity versus the peso,” Tetangco wrote in his e-
mail. “We are monitoring these flows to see if there is a need
to institute any changes in the manner in which these
instruments are traded.”  Accelerating Growth  The monetary authority had ordered lenders starting this
year to set aside more funds to cover currency-forward
transactions to reduce systemic risk and curb speculation. Its
two-week and one-month special accounts pay more than the 91-day
Treasury bills.  Second-quarter growth was probably faster than the 6.4
percent expansion recorded in the previous three months on
better farm output and higher  government spending , presidential
spokesman Ricky Carandang said this week. Inflation may slow for
a second month, to 2.8 percent in June from a year earlier,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before the data due tomorrow.  The yield on the 6.5 percent bonds due April 2021 fell six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.21 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  