-- Poland Leaves Rate Unchanged as Euro Crisis Damps Growth
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-07-04T14:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/poland-leaves-rate-unchanged-as-euro-crisis-damps-growth.html
Poland ’s central bank, the only one
in the European Union to raise  borrowing costs  this year, left
the benchmark interest rate unchanged as the sovereign-debt
crisis weighs on growth in the EU’s biggest eastern economy.  The Narodowy Bank Polski, which surprised the market with a
quarter-point increase in May, kept its benchmark rate at 4.75
percent today, in line with the forecasts of all 34 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The rate-setting Monetary Policy Council refrained from
altering borrowing costs for a second month as it assesses the
impact of the euro-area debt crisis. Polish consumer prices are
rising at the third-fastest pace in the 27-nation EU even as the
European Commission forecasts  economic growth  will slow to 2.7
percent this year from 4.3 percent in 2011.  “We do see significant signs of a slowdown, in the economy
worldwide,” Governor  Marek Belka  said at a news conference in
Warsaw today after the rate decision. “I would not go so far as
to say that we are completely changing our outlook,” though
“should that worse scenario materialize, then most probably our
propensity to increase  interest rates  will be weaker.”  The zloty, which was little changed after the decision,
traded at 4.2128 per euro in Warsaw at 4:15 p.m., down 0.45
percent on the day. The average yield on the two-year government
bond was up two basis points at 4.62 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation Outlook  Poland’s central bank cut its forecast for inflation and
economic growth in 2012-2014 and said price growth will slow
gradually to near its 2.5 percent target next year, according to
an e-mailed statement after today’s rate decision.  The central bank said inflation will average between 3.6
percent and 4.2 percent this year, compared with its previous
projection in March of 3.6 percent to 4.5 percent. Price growth
will slow to a range from 2 percent to 3.4 percent in 2013,
compared with an earlier 2.2 percent to 3.6 percent projection.  “In the medium term, the economic slowdown amid fiscal
tightening and interest-rate increases implemented in 2011 and
2012 will be conducive to inflation returning to target” next
year, the central bank said in the statement.  The NBP said it forecast economic growth at 2.3 percent to
3.6 percent this year, compared with an earlier view of growth
between 2.2 percent and 3.8 percent. Its forecast for 2013
economic growth was 1 percent to 3.2 percent, compared with 1.1
percent to 3.5 percent in the March projection.  Price Stability  The central bank, which last year raised rates by a total
of 1 percentage point and then kept them at the highest level
since 2009 for 10 months, claims  price stability  as its prime
responsibility. Inflation has exceeded 3.5 percent, the upper
end of the bank’s tolerance limit, since January 2010.  The Czech central bank cut its main interest rate to a
record low of 0.5 percent last week. The  European Central Bank 
kept its benchmark interest rate at 1 percent last month,
matching a record low, with President  Mario Draghi  saying “a
few” officials had opted for a cut. The Frankfurt-based ECB
will hold its next assessment tomorrow.  In comments since the June meeting, policy makers had given
mixed signals.  Adam Glapinski  and Andrzej Kazmierczak advocated
further tightening, saying the economic slowdown was moderate.
Elzbieta Chojna-Duch and Andrzej Bratkowski, who opposed the May
rate increase against eight other MPC members led by Belka,
suggested a rate cut was possible.  ‘Sharp Disagreement’  “A sharp disagreement about the direction of policy has
become apparent, with both rate hikes and rate cuts being
considered,” Michal Dybula, an emerging-market strategist at
BNP Paribas in Warsaw, said by phone before the rate decision.
“Growth is slowing and the outlook is weak, so we no longer
forecast a hike, while inflation bouncing back above 4 percent
in the summer will support MPC hawks.”  Domestic and euro-region data released since the last rate
meeting suggest that Poland’s slowing economy is at risk of
worsening.  Germany , which buys a quarter of Polish exports, saw
its industrial output shrink 2.2 percent in April, while its
business-climate index dropped to the lowest since March 2010.  Polish job growth at companies with more than nine workers
held at a two-year low in May, wages increased less than
forecast and retail sales rose at half the pace from a year
earlier. May price growth excluding food and energy slowed to a
13-month low of 2.3 percent, while households’ inflation
expectations declined in June to 3.7 percent, the lowest in 18
months. Inflation eased to a 15-month low of 3.6 percent in May.  “The whole series of statistics from the real economy is
giving bankers enough room to hold off raising rates,” Wojciech Matysiak, an economist at  Bank Pekao (PEO)  in Warsaw, said by phone on
June 29. “We’re getting closer to a situation where the weak
economy is trimming consumer-price growth, which is natural but
wasn’t happening for quite a while.”  ‘More Headwinds’  Economic growth will slow to 2.5 percent in the second half
of 2012 from a year earlier, compared with 2.9 percent in the
first six months, according to the median estimate of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The EU’s largest eastern
member expanded 4.3 percent in 2011 and will grow 2.7 percent
this year, according to the European Commission.  “With more headwinds from the euro-zone crisis likely to
come, as well as growing evidence of a sharp deceleration in the
Polish construction sector, it is difficult to expect a rebound
of the economy any time soon,” said Dybula of  BNP Paribas. (BNP)   Dybula withdrew his rate-increase forecast on June 28,
joining a group of 21 economists predicting that borrowing costs
will be left unchanged this year, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Two economists expect the rate to be raised to 5 percent
in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  