-- Polish Shale Gas Search to Get $515 Million From State Firms
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-07-04T10:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/polish-shale-gas-search-to-get-515-million-from-state-firms-1-.html
Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA , Poland’s dominant gas distributor, and four
other state-controlled companies joined forces to explore for
shale gas in central Europe’s biggest nation.  PGNiG, utilities  PGE SA (PGE) ,  Tauron Polska Energia SA (TPE)  and  Enea
SA (ENA)  as well as copper producer  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH)  signed a
cooperation deal to spend 1.72 billion zloty ($515 million) by
2016 to search for the gas locked in shale rock formations.  “To succeed in this project we need to have a strong team
of companies that are among the biggest corporations in
Poland,” Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski, who supervises
state companies, said at a news conference in Warsaw today.  Poland is speeding up shale gas exploration to lessen its
dependence on Russian imports. PGNiG, which buys two-thirds of
its gas from OAO Gazprom, sued the Russian company in an
arbitration court to get lower prices in its long-term contract,
which ends in 2022.  Poland  aims for “substantial” shale gas
output by 2019 to strengthen its position with Gazprom before
talks start on renewing the contract, Budzanowski said on March
29.  The group plans to drill and fracture hydraulically three
vertical and about 30 horizontal wells on the area of 160 square
kilometers (62 square miles) of PGNiG’s Wejherowo license in
northern Poland, Chief Executive Officer Grazyna Piotrowska-
Oliwa told a news briefing. The division of investment outlays
and benefits from prospective output among partners has yet to
be decided, she said.  Fracking uses water, sand and chemicals to open fissures in
rocks and release gas. It has made the U.S. the world’s largest
producer of the fuel.  Extra Gas  Poland’s recoverable shale gas reserves probably total as
much as 768 billion cubic meters, the Warsaw-based Geological
Institute said last month after analyzing wells drilled from the
1950s to the 1980s. Poland, which consumes about 14 billion
cubic meters of the fuel a year, has issued 110  exploration
licenses  to companies including  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Talisman Energy
Inc. (TLM)  and  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  The country hasn’t started
production from the licenses yet.  Poland may also use the extra gas to fuel power-generating
units. Utilities in the country, which produces 90 percent of
its electricity from coal, plan to add at least 4,000 megawatts
of gas-fired facilities in the next eight years. A 400-megawatt
plant uses about 540 million cubic meters of gas a year.  Poland expects to have 248 shale gas wells by 2017, with 49
started by the end of this year, Rafal Miland, deputy director
at the  Environment Ministry ’s geological concessions department,
said on May 24. The cost of one well is between $10 million to
$15 million, according to the Geological Institute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  