-- Pound Falls After Services Growth Slows as Gilts Advance
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-07-04T15:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/pound-falls-after-services-growth-slows-as-gilts-advance.html
The pound fell for a third day
against the dollar after a report showed U.K. services growth
slowed more in June than analysts forecast, boosting the case
for the central bank to add additional stimulus.  Britain’s currency weakened against most of its 16 major
peers after separate data showed shop-price inflation at its
weakest in more than 2 1/2 years. The  Bank of England  will raise
its target for bond purchases by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion)
to 375 billion pounds tomorrow, according to the median estimate
of analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. Gilts advanced as demand
increased at a sale of 4.5 billion pounds of 1 percent notes due
September 2017.  “Even the service sector is losing momentum and that’s not
good for growth,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The
Bank of England’s focus is shifting toward supporting growth.
They will probably expand their gilt-purchase program tomorrow
and the pound will continue to weaken.”  Sterling declined 0.6 percent to $1.5594 at 4:53 p.m.
London time. It was little changed at 80.30 pence per euro.  The pound will depreciate to a two-year low of $1.50 over
the next three months, Hardman predicted.  A gauge of services activity based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  fell to 51.3, an eight-month low, from 53.3
in May, Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  said in an e-mailed report released in
 London . The median forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a reading of 52.9. A measure above 50 indicates
expansion. Markit said respondents noted “fragile” demand.  Double-Dip Recession  U.K. retail prices rose 1.1 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 1.5 percent in May, the  British Retail Consortium 
and Nielsen Co. said in an e-mailed report today.  Reports by Markit this week showed U.K. manufacturing and
construction contracted in June, while euro-area services and
manufacturing output shrank for a fifth month. With both
economies remaining weak, the Bank of England and the  European
Central Bank  will probably loosen policy after meetings at the
two institutions tomorrow, Bloomberg surveys of economists show.  While the Bank of England will probably raise its target
for asset purchases, it will leave its key  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent, the surveys show. The U.K. central
bank will announce its decision at noon in London.  ECB Meeting  The pound has depreciated 0.6 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies, amid speculation  Europe ’s debt
crisis is weighing on Britain’s economy. The euro weakened 1.9
percent and the dollar fell 2.1 percent, the indexes show.  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt tomorrow will cut the
benchmark rate below 1 percent to a record low of 0.75 percent
and will also reduce the deposit rate to zero, according to a
survey of economists.  Ten-year gilt yields fell four basis points to 1.72
percent. The 4 percent security gained 0.36, or 3.60 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 120.23.  The U.K. debt management office sold notes maturing in
September 2017 at an average yield of 0.942 percent, up from
0.927 percent the last time the securities were sold on June 12.
Investors bid for 1.51 times the number of gilts allotted, up
from 1.28 times at the last sale.  “The auction went relatively well and appetite for gilts
remains strong,” said Peter Goves, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.
in London. “The central bank actively extending its purchases
introduces another buyer, so is supportive for gilts. We see
yields remaining low.”  U.K. debt has returned 1.7 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds gained 2.2 percent
and  U.S. Treasuries  rose 1.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  