-- Rand Falls First Day in Five as Marcus Warns on Growth
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-07-04T12:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/rand-falls-first-day-in-five-as-marcus-warns-on-growth-correct-.html
(Corrects to say rand fell first time in five days in
first paragraph.)  The rand weakened for the first time
in five days and bonds rose after Reserve Bank Governor  Gill
Marcus  said  South Africa ’s economic outlook has deteriorated,
fueling expectations of a rate cut.  South Africa’s currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 8.1315
per dollar as of 1:50 p.m. in Johannesburg, the worst
performance out of 16 major currencies monitored by Bloomberg.
Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 retreated
three basis points to 7.13 percent, the lowest on a closing
basis on record.  Inflation, which probably peaked in the first quarter, is
on a declining trend and will likely remain within the bank’s
target range through 2014 as  Europe ’s debt crisis erodes growth,
Marcus said. It reached a two-year high of 6.3 percent in
January before slipping to 5.7 percent in May.  “Given the kind of numbers that we are seeing at the
moment, you cannot discount another rate cut,” Arthur Kamp, an
economist at Sanlam Investment Management in  Cape Town , said by
phone.  The central bank has left its benchmark repurchase rate at
5.5 percent, a three-decade low, since November 2010 to help
stimulate growth. Investors are betting on a rate cut within the
next year.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , an indication of investors’
expectation of average  interest rates , have declined six basis
points in the past month to 5.37 percent, falling below the
repurchase rate for the first time since November. Forward-rate
agreements starting in December are trading at 5.26 percent, or
34 basis points below the three-month Johannesburg Interbank
Agreed Rate.  Growth Slows  Economic growth slowed to an annualized 2.7 percent in the
first quarter from the previous three months. Retail sales
contracted in the first quarter and manufacturing growth almost
stalled in April. The purchasing managers’ index fell below 50
for the first time in six months in June, indicating
manufacturing output shrank, Kagiso Tiso Holdings Ltd. said on
July 2.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  lowered his growth forecast
for this year to 2.7 percent, while the central bank in May cut
its prediction to 2.9 percent from 3 percent.  Economic conditions in Europe and the fiscal constraints in
the U.S. are damping prospects for global growth, Marcus said.
“It is a very grim situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  