-- REC Drops as Bondholder Rejection Boosts Fund Costs: Oslo Mover
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-07-04T11:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/rec-drops-as-bondholder-rejection-boosts-fund-costs-oslo-mover.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA (REC) , the
solar-energy group trying to improve its balance sheet amid
falling demand, dropped to a record in Oslo after bondholders
rejected changes to their accords, increasing refinancing costs.  The Sandvika, Norway-based company declined as much as 12
percent to 1.963 kroner, the lowest since listing in May 2006,
and making it the worst performer on the Oslo Stock Exchange’s
benchmark OBX index. The shares were suspended yesterday.  The company raised 1.3 billion kroner ($218 million)
through the sale of 866.7 million new shares at 1.5 kroner each,
it said in a statement today. The offer, equivalent in size to
about 90 percent of REC’s issued share capital, was part of a
new refinancing plan after investors holding 320 million euros
($402 million) of debt yesterday rejected proposed changes to
the terms of their convertible bonds.  The bondholder rejection means REC’s refinancing is now “a
bit more expensive” than it would have been, Andreas Strand, an
analyst at ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, said by phone from
Oslo. The outcome is still “better than the alternative where
they would default on their debt in 2013 and 2014.”  REC, whose shares have fallen 99 percent since listing six
years ago, is trying to improve its finances as excess capacity
and weakening demand cuts profits. The company, like its
European peers, is under pressure from Chinese rivals that
expanded capacity just as demand slowed, causing wafer and cell
prices to plummet. Demand also shrank as France, Italy and
 Germany  reduced subsidies to cap booming solar installations.  ‘Right Thing’  REC’s decision to push ahead with its refinancing without
bondholder support was the “right thing to do because the
alternative would be much worse,” said ABG’s Strand, who has a
hold recommendation on the stock. “They need the refinancing to
be able to have some credibility with their customers and
suppliers.”  “The board and shareholders are very happy about the turn-
out of events,” Chairman Jens Ulltveit-Moe said by phone.  REC has 997.2 million shares outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding a subsequent offer through
which REC may raise 375 million kroner, the refinancing will
increase its issued share capital to about 1.86 billion shares,
diluting the stakes of existing shareholders including  Orkla
ASA (ORK) , a Norwegian industrial and branded goods company.  Orkla, based in Oslo, wasn’t going to buy shares in the
original offer, having previously said it planned to sell its
stake in REC.  Bank Debt  The company today said it will buy 133.3 million shares
under REC’s latest proposal, even as the share offer dilutes its
stake to about 28.4 percent from 40 percent beforehand.  The share issue, combined with a refinancing of REC’s bank
debt into a 2 billion kroner facility maturing in April 2014,
“will strengthen our balance sheet and enable us to withstand a
very difficult solar market,” spokesman Mikkel Torud said by
mobile phone today. “It was better for the company and our
shareholders to find another more compact solution than initiate
any further discussions with convertible bondholders.”  Shares in REC were down 5.9 percent at 2.09 kroner as of
1:51 p.m. in the Norwegian capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  