-- Repsol Junk Prospect Risks Alaska to Angola Expansion: Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-07-05T16:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/repsol-junk-prospect-risks-alaska-to-angola-expansion-energy.html
Repsol SA (REP) ’s $19 billion plan to
expand oil and natural-gas production from  Alaska  to  Angola  is
at risk as it fights to avoid becoming the only major  oil
company  to lose an investment-grade  credit rating .  A downgrade would probably increase borrowing costs for
Spain’s biggest driller, based on market rates for junk-rated
companies. To prevent that, Repsol plans to sell assets and pay
dividends in shares to cut the highest debt-to-equity ratio
among the 17 largest oil producers, according to recent filings.  Repsol may have to refinance 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion)
next July when  bonds come due . The company said it will cut debt
by as much as 9 billion euros after being lowered to one level
above junk following the seizure of its Argentine unit in April.
That removed almost half its proved reserves and sparked a sell-
off in bonds and a slump of almost 50 percent in its shares.  “Their biggest problem is to convince credit agencies and
investors they can deliver on measures to cut debt,” said
Francois Nicolas, an analyst at Creditsights Ltd. in London.
“At some point they will have to refinance themselves. It would
be quite a bad thing to lose the investment-grade rating.”  Moody’s Investors Service, which along with Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings gives Repsol debt its lowest investment
grade, cut the outlook to negative from stable on June 29,
citing concerns that the sovereign debt crisis will spread.
 Spain  requested a bailout for its banks that are still reeling
from a real-estate collapse that’s in its fifth year.  Rating Priority  “Maintaining our rating is a priority, and we are
confident we have the tools to achieve it,” said Kristian Rix,
a spokesman for Madrid-based Repsol.  On July 3, investors demanded yields of 672 basis points,
or 6.72 percentage points, more than similar-maturity government
debt to hold bonds of European companies in the BB category, the
top tier of junk, Bank of America Corp.’s Euro High Yield, BB
Rated index shows. That compares with 373 basis points for a
gauge of debt graded BBB, the bottom investment-grade division.  Repsol shares have plunged 46 percent this year after it
lost the Argentine  YPF SA (YPFD)  unit,  oil prices  slipped and concerns
rose about the future of the euro currency. The stock fell 3.2
percent to 12.91 euros today in  Madrid .  The company had a respite during the past week after
European Union leaders agreed on a plan to recapitalize Spanish
banks directly, rather than through governments. Investors
charged less for five-year credit default swaps that insure
Repsol’s bonds against default. The spread fell to 416 basis
points on July 3 from 544 basis points on June 28. By contrast,
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s rate is 108.5, and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s is 28.2.  Dividend Payout  Repsol said May 29 it will lower its dividend payout to 40
percent to 55 percent of profit this year, which implies a cut
of as much as 40 percent. It also said it will sell as much as
4.5 billion euros of assets through 2016 and will reduce debt by
as much as 9 billion euros.  This year, the company is considering selling stock held in
treasury, offering to pay dividends in shares and converting
preferred shares.  “We expect the company to reach its debt reduction targets
and keep their rating,” said Manuel Herold, an oil and gas
credit analyst at Unicredit Bank AG in Munich. “If they don’t,
it will be a new situation in the oil and gas sector to have a
high-yield company of that size.”  Repsol plans to bolster production from its remaining
assets outside  Argentina  by 7 percent a year through 2016 and
add new reserves covering 120 percent of the oil pumped. The
company expects to invest 14.7 billion euros in its upstream
division through 2016.  ‘Serious Handicap’  “Investment may need to be higher than planned so cash
will be tight,” said  Peter Hutton , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in London. “It would be a serious handicap to lose
their rating, it’s important for access to reserves and for
trading contracts.”  The company’s prospects for growth in  Brazil , the U.S.,
Angola and Venezuela may still attract investors. The share
slump has also raised speculation that China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec, or another state-backed energy
producer may want to invest.  “I’d be delighted about a partnership with Sinopec or
someone else taking some of the overhang for the shares,” said
 Andrea Williams , a  fund manager  at Royal London Asset Management
who holds Repsol, referring to treasury stock it owns.  Greater Exposure  The loss of YPF leaves Repsol with a greater exposure to
the Spanish economy in its refining and marketing business,
where it’s seeking to increase margins. Spain slipped back into
a recession at the end of last year and has the highest
 unemployment rate  in the European Union.  The country has debated laws to protect companies such as
Repsol from hostile takeovers by forcing bidders to file an
independent report that establishes a minimum valuation.  “They’re right to be concerned, the company’s
vulnerable,” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec
Securities Ltd. in London. “But no one’s going to buy a Spanish
company until they know what’s happening to Spain in the euro.
You wouldn’t buy a house that’s about to burn down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  