-- Rich Guys Facing Jail Time Can Still Win a Break
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2012-07-04T22:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/rich-guys-facing-jail-time-can-still-win-a-break.html
Rajat Gupta , the former McKinsey &
Co. chief and pal of imprisoned inside trader  Raj Rajaratnam ,
has one goal after being convicted last month of  securities
fraud : To convince federal Judge Jed Rakoff that he deserves
minimal jail time.  There is a compelling public interest, after all, in
keeping white-collar criminals on the street. The financial
markets need liquidity, as any summer intern at a Washington
lobbying firm can tell you, and we would be facing dark days if
we lost our best talent at leaking confidential information.
What good is a tipster in a place where high-frequency trading
means swapping cigarettes for a batch of washed and folded
laundry?  I don’t mean to suggest that his lawyers and throng of big-
name business friends aren’t already doing a serviceable job of
portraying Gupta as an honorable man who doesn’t belong in jail.
Gupta’s lawyer, Gary P. Naftalis, pushed so hard to be allowed
to tell the jurors about Gupta’s philanthropy that Rakoff had to
offer a reminder: Even Mother Teresa would be judged on the
evidence -- but presumably not her saintliness -- if charged
with robbing a bank. And on the website www.friendsofrajat.com,
a collection of supporters cite everything from Gupta’s role as
a founding board member of the Global Fund for AIDS, malaria and
tuberculosis to his selfless offer to pay for a friend’s son to
go to college.  Going Far  The effort to tout his charity and good heart is a
respectable start for the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
 director . But it doesn’t go far enough.  With the sentencing slated for Oct. 18, there’s no harm in
maxing out on every possible pitch as to why the man found
guilty of leaking confidential information to Rajaratnam should
get a break. The community-service alternatives alone are
boundless. A not-for-profit to wage war on  bullying  of school-
bus monitors comes to mind. Or maybe a faux-feminist foundation
that cranks out op-ed articles on why it’s bad for women to
receive equal pay to men.  Speaking of op-eds, it wouldn’t be the worst idea for him
to get his worker bees cracking on a competition among news
media outlets for first dibs on a Gupta byline. If Gupta’s
lawyers balk, at least the public-relations people could
ghostwrite a sermon on Gupta’s finer points, and hunt down a big
name in business willing to put his or her name on it. You know,
the types who are on important corporate boards and maybe even
run global management-consulting firms.  White-collar defendants with bottomless checkbooks have
been known to make colossal efforts to paint themselves as
philanthropic pillars of the community. Sometimes that charity
begins right around the time investigators deliver their first
subpoena. Other times, as in the case of Gupta, magnanimity is a
long-established practice.  You might wonder who would care if a rich person found
guilty of a crime has sprinkled a few crumbs among the little
people -- and juries often wonder the same thing. Experts in
selecting and analyzing juries say that jurors in mock trials
and focus groups get turned off when there’s too much talk about
a defendant’s good works. Philip K. Anthony, the director of
jury consulting at DecisionQuest Inc. in  Los Angeles , says
jurors often mention that wealthy defendants derive benefits
from their largess, including tax write-offs and goodwill from
business associates and the community.  Paul Neale, the chief executive officer of Doar Litigation
Consulting -- the Lynbrook, New York-based firm that worked on
the Gupta case -- declined to comment on the trial. But he did
say he has never seen philanthropy as a “definitive factor” in
23 years of mock trials that his firm has conducted.  Reality Play  Reality, though, can play out differently. Richard M. Scrushy, the former CEO of HealthSouth Corp., was acquitted by a
jury in 2005 on charges he directed an accounting fraud. The
Birmingham, Alabama, community got a heavy dose of his pious
side even during the trial. Scrushy delivered a lecture and
donated $5,000 to a church attended by one of the jurors. He and
his wife hosted a Bible show that aired five days a week on
local TV during the months before the trial began.  Even Rajaratnam benefited from hundreds of supportive
letters to the court. Federal Judge  Richard Holwell  acknowledged
Rajaratnam’s “very significant dedication to others” at
sentencing, giving him 11 years even though sentencing
guidelines called for as much as 24 1/2 years.  Maybe it wouldn’t hurt for Gupta to consider the example of
Ronald Ferguson, the former CEO of General Reinsurance Corp. who
faced a potential life sentence for helping American
International Group Inc. deceive shareholders. Part of his pitch
to the judge at sentencing was that he wanted to get back to his
seminary education “and live my purpose to serve others.”
Though his conviction was reversed on appeal and then settled in
June in advance of a retrial, U.S. District Judge Christopher Droney sentenced him to only two years back in 2008. “We will
never know why such a good man did such a bad thing,” Droney
said. Ferguson’s supporters flooded the court with 379 letters.  A seminary stint may not be in Gupta’s future, but perhaps
he could catch a break if he winds up filing an appeal and
selects a new legal team with the magic touch.  In one of the most famous insider-trading cases of the late
1980s, Martin Siegel faced as much as 10 years in prison and a
$260,000 fine. He had sold inside information in return for
suitcases full of cash. Despite his crime, he spent only two
months in prison, five years of probation, and received no fine.  It’s a pity that Gupta won’t have a shot at hiring the
lawyer who shepherded Siegel to his propitious outcome. Siegel
used Jed Rakoff, the guy who will decide what sentence suits
Gupta’s crimes.  (Susan Antilla, who has written about  Wall Street  and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on U.S.  funding for Unesco  and
on states’  abuse of federal foreclosure aid ;  Michael Kinsley  on
the  corporate right to free speech ;  Ezra Klein  on the
 Republican-inspired tax increases in the Republican-inspired
health-care  law; Gordon Kerr on why devaluing the pound would be
a  form of default .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Susan Antilla  at   santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 