-- RIM Cutting Carrier Fee Shows ‘Spiral’ Concern
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-04T20:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/rim-cutting-carrier-fee-shows-spiral-concern.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the
BlackBerry maker whose stock has dropped 95 percent since 2008,
is under pressure from mobile phone companies to reduce carrier
fees that generate $4.09 billion in annual revenue.  RIM said it faces demands to cut the fees paid by customers
such as AT&T Inc. after posting its first loss in a decade last
week. The fees account for more than a third of revenue at RIM,
which is racing to introduce BlackBerry 10 phones and engineer a
turnaround.  “There’s definitely negotiations going on right now to
reduce” the fees if the company has acknowledged its concern,
said Sameet Kanade, a technology analyst at Northern Securities.  Kanade, who rates RIM a sell, estimates revenue from the
monthly fee could drop 17 percent to $3.4 billion this year and
another 18 percent to $2.8 billion in fiscal 2014 as carriers
such as  AT&T (T)  and  Verizon Wireless  seek lower fees amid the
company’s diminishing clout. RIM is the only handset maker to
charge such a fee.  RIM levies the fees to carriers for subscriber access to
its BlackBerry server infrastructure. As wireless operators face
customers’ requests for reduced monthly charges, it becomes
harder for those carriers to pass on the subscriber fee, said
Kanade at Northern Securities in Toronto.  Spokespeople for AT&T and Verizon Wireless,  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and
 Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , the two largest carriers in the U.S.
and  Canada  respectively, declined to comment on the nature of
any discussions they hold with RIM.  “RIM intends to continue generating a revenue stream from
the services we offer,” said Nick Manning, a spokesman for
Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM. He declined to elaborate on any
requests for fee reductions cited by the company in last week’s
earnings release.  Still Growing  Lower service fees in  emerging markets , where RIM is
increasingly reliant for growth as U.S. sales tumble, also pose
a threat to business margins, said Kanade.  For now, it’s still a growing part of the business as RIM’s
subscriber numbers rise, helped by increasing sales in markets
such as  Indonesia  and  South Africa . Revenue from those fees and
other services climbed 4.1 percent last quarter from a year
earlier as device sales plunged 57 percent. That lifted
services’ share of total revenue to 36 percent last quarter from
20 percent the year before.  The fee revenue is expected to drop to $2.7 billion in
fiscal 2014 and $2.3 billion in fiscal 2015, according to
another estimate from Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. analyst  Pierre Ferragu .  While that may still give RIM enough cash to last two
years, that doesn’t mean the company can afford to burn through
its reserves, Kanade said.  Burning Cash  “Devices are definitely burning cash at a rapid rate,”
said Neeraj Monga, an analyst at Veritas Research in Toronto.
“They need to have the services business continue to give them
cash so they can maintain their flexibility.”  Monga, who rates RIM a sell, said RIM may run out of cash
by May if the new phone hasn’t launched by then, as hardware
losses overwhelm shrinking service revenue.  “April, May of next year could be a time of reckoning for
RIM,” he said. “It’s a race between what comes first: BB10,
zero cash balance or an acquisition.”  RIM Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins said the
BlackBerry maker isn’t in a “death spiral” as it works to
deliver the new phone in 2013.  “The way I would describe it, we’re in the middle of a
transition,” Heins said yesterday in a Canadian Broadcasting
Corp. radio interview. “This company is not ignoring the world
out there, nor is it in a death spiral.”  Delayed Release  RIM plunged 19 percent on June 29 after posting its first
loss in a decade, delaying the release of a new phone it’s
counting on to revive slumping sales and cutting 5,000 jobs.
While the company said it had $2.2 billion in cash at the end of
last quarter, Chief Financial Officer Brian Bidulka warned that
number could drop if the company has to further restructure.  RIM has dropped 95 percent from its mid-2008 peak, cutting
its market value to less than $4 billion. That makes the
company’s cash reserves worth more than half its current market
value. The stock closed unchanged at C$7.44 in Toronto.      ‘As
some pundits write RIM’s obituary, the company’s global
subscriber base continues to grow to more than 78 million people
in 175 countries,’’ Heins wrote in an editorial posted yesterday
on the Globe and Mail’s website.  He pointed out that RIM has no
debt and more than $2 billion in cash.  “The facts about RIM’s business provide reason to believe
that we can succeed, even as we take painful but necessary steps
to focus our resources and build a lean, nimble organization
focused intently on bringing BlackBerry 10 to market.”  Hires Bankers  The BlackBerry maker in May hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 RBC Capital Markets  to help evaluate options and has not ruled
out a sale of the company. In the CBC interview, Heins said the
company is “looking into all options. At the end of the day
it’s about creating long-term  shareholder value .”  RIM’s introduction of BB10 has been delayed by what Heins
has said is the volume of software code that needs to be created
for the platform that will run future BlackBerrys and its
PlayBook tablet. RIM last week postponed the release of the
first BB10 phone to the first quarter of 2013, a delay of a year
from when the device was first planned to come into the market.  RIM may also need its cash for the BB10 release, which
analysts increasingly see as a long-shot to get RIM to compete
with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices built on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android platform. All of that means they can’t afford a sizable
drop in services revenue, said Anil Doradla, an analyst at
William Blair Co. in  New York .  The drop over the next two quarters of services revenue
“will not be so severe that they just have to stop their phone
business,” said Doradla, who rates RIM the equivalent of a
hold. “But it’s not going to be pretty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  