-- Trinity Mirror Caught Up in News Corp.’s U.K. Bribery Scandal
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-07-04T16:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/trinity-mirror-caught-up-in-news-corp-s-u-k-bribery-scandal.html
Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) , publisher of the
U.K.’s Daily Mirror tabloid, was caught up for the first time in
Britain’s newspaper bribery scandal after one of its former
reporters was arrested for corruption.  Greig Box Turnbull, 37, who left Trinity Mirror in March,
was detained today, said Fergus Sheppard, a spokesman for the
 City of Westminster , where Turnbull has been a senior public-
relations employee since April. The arrest is the first to
involve a publisher other than News Corp.’s U.K. unit, where
rampant bribery and phone hacking triggered parallel probes that
have led to more than 50 arrests.  The  Metropolitan Police Service  said today it arrested a
37-year-old man at his home in Surrey on suspicion of conspiring
to cause misconduct in a public office, without identifying him.
Officers also detained a 46-year-old male prison worker at his
home in London and a 50-year-old woman in Kent.  The probe, known as Operation Elveden, is running parallel
to investigations into phone hacking and computer hacking by
reporters and editors at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-defunct News of the
World tabloid and its Sun newspaper, Britain’s best-selling
daily title. The bribery arrests have focused on the Sun.  Nick Fullagar, a spokesman for London-based Trinity Mirror,
said police hadn’t been in touch with the company regarding the
probe or today’s arrest. Turnbull was a general news reporter
there until March, when he took a “voluntary redundancy,”
Fullagar said.  Turnbull has been on loan to Richmond Borough Council,
another London neighborhood, said Sheppard, of the City of
Westminster, which encompasses  Buckingham Palace  and Parliament.  The Richmond Borough said Turnbull no longer worked there.
A number for Turnbull couldn’t be found on the Internet and
police said all three suspects remained in custody.  “We are obviously aware of the police action, but we have
yet to speak to the employee involved,” said Sheppard. “In the
light of that and the possibility of further legal action it
would clearly be inappropriate to comment further.”  The Telegraph newspaper reported Turnbull’s arrest earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  