-- Arsenal Striker Robin Van Persie Says He Won’t Sign New Contract
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-07-05T00:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/robin-van-persie-says-he-won-t-sign-new-contract-with-arsenal.html
Robin van Persie , who led the Premier
League with 30 goals last season, said he won’t sign a new
contract with Arsenal, which wants him to see out the final year
of his existing agreement.  Van Persie, who joined the Gunners eight years ago,
outlined his desire to leave in a statement yesterday, saying he
met with Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger and Chief Executive
Officer  Ivan Gazidis  and that they had disagreed on the
direction of the club, which last won a trophy in 2005.  “I personally have had a great season, but my goal has
been to win trophies with the team and to bring the club back to
its glory days,”  Van Persie said  on his website. “I don’t want
to go into any details, but unfortunately in this meeting it has
again become clear to me that we in many aspects disagree on the
way Arsenal should move forward.”  Van Persie , who scored 41 goals in 53 games for Arsenal and
the Netherlands last season and took the Professional
Footballers’ Association and Football Writers’ player of the
year awards, said he hasn’t discussed a new contract since
“that is not my priority at all.” He’s been linked by U.K.
media with clubs including Premier League champion  Manchester
City  and Italian Serie A winner Juventus.  “We have to respect Robin’s decision not to renew his
contract,” Arsenal said in a  statement  on its website. “Robin
has one year to run on his current contract and we are confident
that he will fulfill his commitments to the club.”  ‘Love the Club’  Van Persie joined Arsenal in 2004 from Feyenoord and has
scored 132 goals in 278 appearances, including  37 in 48 games  in
all competitions last season, when he captained the team.  “I love the club and the fans, no matter what happens,”
he said. “I have grown up and became a man during my time with
Arsenal. Everybody at the club and the fans have always
supported me over the years and I have always given my all (and
more) on and off the pitch. I am very proud of being part of
this fantastic club for the last eight years.”  Arsenal must now decide whether to sell Van Persie or allow
him to leave as a free agent at the end of next season. His
statement came on the same day that Germany striker Lukas Podolski completed his move to the Gunners by signing a contract.
Arsenal also acquired Olivier Giroud, the leading scoring in
 France ’s Ligue 1 last season, from Montpellier.  “We are planning with ambition and confident for next
season with Arsenal’s best interests in mind,” the club’s
statement read.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  