-- Federer Plays Djokovic, Murray Faces Tsonga in Wimbledon Semis
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-04T19:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/roger-federer-to-play-novak-djokovic-in-wimbledon-semifinals.html
Six-time Wimbledon winner  Roger Federer  will play defending champion Novak Djokovic in the
semifinals of the tennis tournament after both won in
straight sets today.  Andy Murray  will meet Jo-Wilfried Tsonga.  Showing no signs of the back injury he’d struggled with two
days ago, the third-seeded Federer of  Switzerland  defeated the
No. 26 seeded  Mikhail Youzhny  of  Russia , 6-1, 6-2, 6-2 on Centre
Court at the All England Club. Their match was watched by  Prince William  and the Duchess of Cambridge from the royal box.  “Obviously it feels great being back in the semis,”
Federer said after he’d clinched the match with a backhand
volley and won the point on his first serve 88 percent of the
time. “Haven’t been there in the last couple years,” added
Federer, who had lost in the quarterfinals the past two times.  Djokovic beat the 31st-seeded Florian Mayer of  Germany , 6-
4, 6-1, 6-4, on Court 1.  Britain’s Murray overcame Spain’s No. 7 seed  David Ferrer 
in a three hour, 52 minute contest full of long baseline
exchanges, 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (8-6), 6-4, 7-6 (7-4) on Centre Court.  No. 4 seed Murray, who has now tied fellow Briton Tim Henman with four Wimbledon semifinals, is trying to become the
first British man to win Wimbledon in 76 years. No. 5 seed Tsonga
of  France  moved to his second straight semifinal by beating
Germany’s No. 27 seed Philipp Kohlschreiber, 7-6 (7-5), 4-6, 7-6
(7-3), 6-2 on Court 1. Murray leads Tsonga 5-1 in career
meetings.  Stepped Up Pace  After each won a set in a tiebreak, Murray stepped up the
pace of his groundstrokes in the third set, breaking for 5-4
with a deep backhand return. He took a two sets to one lead with
his 12th ace. Play was suspended for 25 minutes in the fourth
set at 5-5. Murray set up two match points with a forehand down
the line, and won with a 135 miles-per-hour ace, his 18th of the
match and three times more than Ferrer.  “Very tough match, long match, lots of tight moments,”
Murray said. “Just played a little bit better at the end. He’s
a great player. I knew it was going to be a tough fight”  All the quarterfinalists came from  Europe , only the fifth
time that has happened since tennis turned professional in 1968.  “It took me a while to get used to the conditions, after I
played the last three matches indoors,” Djokovic said, after he
won his match with his fifth ace. “But I’m very satisfied with
my performance.”  First on Grass  Although Federer leads Djokovic 14-12, the two have never
played each other on grass. The Serb, the men’s top seed, beat
the 30-year-old in the semifinals of  Roland Garros  last month in
straight sets.  “It’s always a pleasure playing against Roger,” Djokovic,
25, said. “He’s a great champion, and so consistent in the
Grand Slams. He’s the ultimate challenge on grass.”  “I know I’m playing really well,” said Federer, who met
Prince William and his wife Kate after his match. “I am aware
things are going to get complicated in the next match. I better
prepare well, because it’s going to be a tough match.”  Federer will be playing his first semifinal at Wimbledon in
three years, and his 32nd overall. The oldest quarterfinalist at
30 years and 355 days, Federer hasn’t won a Grand Slam
championship since he took a record-extending 16th major men’s
title at the 2010 Australian Open.  The Swiss right-hander has dominated Youzhny in all their
previous 14 meetings, only dropping three sets.  Watched by former champions including  Rod Laver  from the
royal box, Federer raced to a 4-1 lead in the first set, when
play was stopped for 21 minutes because of rain.  Youzhny’s Appeal  Federer surged through the first and second sets after the
rain break. When faced with a break point at the start of the
third set, Youzhny looked up to the royal box and asked former
Wimbledon champions  Steffi Graf  and  Andre Agassi , “Can you tell
me what I can do?”  He promptly lost his serve.  Djokovic struggled at the start against Mayer, overcoming
0-40 at 4-4 on his own serve. After Djokovic held, Mayer’s will
was broken as his opponent took control and quickly won the
second set in 25 minutes.  Federer, trying to tie  Pete Sampras  and  William Renshaw 
with seven titles at the All England Club, will regain the No. 1
spot in men’s tennis if he wins the event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  