-- Rubber Climbs to Five-Week High as U.S. Auto Sales Top Forecast
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-07-04T08:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/rubber-climbs-to-two-week-high-as-u-s-auto-sales-top-estimates.html
Rubber advanced to the highest level
in almost five weeks as U.S. factory orders and auto sales
topped estimates, raising speculation demand will improve for
the commodity used in tires.  December-delivery rubber rose 2.2 percent to end at 256.6
yen a kilogram ($3,216 a metric ton), the highest settlement
level for a most-active contract since May 31, on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange. That pared this year’s loss to 2.6 percent.  Asian stocks  climbed for a sixth day, with the regional
benchmark heading for its longest winning streak this year,
after data showed U.S. factory orders rose in May for the first
time in three months.  General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co. and
Chrysler Group LLC reported U.S. auto sales for June that topped
analysts’ estimates, helping the industry surpass projections
and stay on pace for the best year since 2007.  “The better-than-expected figures underlined the strength
of the U.S. auto industry, which is positive for rubber
demand,”  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co. in
Tokyo, said today by phone.  U.S. auto sales accelerated to a 14.1 million seasonally
adjusted annualized  rate , according to researcher Autodata Corp.
The pace topped the 13.8 million light-vehicle rate that was the
average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Auto-
industry sales provide a bright spot in the world’s largest
economy that has been hindered by persistent unemployment and
weakening  consumer confidence .  Futures were supported by speculation that the  Federal
Reserve  will take additional stimulus to boost growth, Saito
said. The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its growth
forecast for the  U.S. economy  as Managing Director  Christine
Lagarde  said further monetary policy easing may be needed by the
Fed if the situation was to deteriorate.  Rubber for September delivery rose 0.2 percent to 23,915
 yuan  ($3,768) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange. Thai
rubber  free-on-board  was unchanged at 103.55 baht ($3.29) a
kilogram, according to the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand.  Thailand’s Rubber Estate Organization raised  the price  at
which it buys ribbed-smoked sheets from farmers by 1.1 percent
to 96.20 baht a kilogram for tomorrow. That’s higher than the
average auctioned price in three southern markets of 93.20 baht.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 Jbanks15@bloomberg.net  