-- Rupiah Trades Near Four-Week High on Fund Inflows; Bonds Steady
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-07-04T08:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/rupiah-trades-near-four-week-high-on-fund-inflows-bonds-gain.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah traded near a
four-week high as speculation central banks will ease monetary
policy in the world’s biggest economies spurred demand for
emerging-market assets.  Government bonds  were steady.  Global funds bought $94 million more local shares than they
sold in the last two days and added 590 billion rupiah ($63
million) to their government  bond holdings  on July 2, data show.
The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  rallied to near a two-month high as
economists forecast the  European Central Bank  will reduce
borrowing costs tomorrow. China may cut banks’ reserve-
requirement ratios three more times in 2012, Shanghai Securities
News reported on its website, citing a report released by the
China Banking Association today.  “We might be seeing foreigners return to the stock market,
with slower inflows into the  bond market , as optimism returns,”
said Billie Fuliangsahar, the Jakarta-based head of treasury at
PT Rabobank International Indonesia. “There is still some
demand for dollars left over from last month, with corporates
needing to make payments, so the moves may be limited.”  The rupiah traded at 9,361 per dollar as of 3:23 p.m. in
Jakarta, after closing at 9,363 yesterday, according to prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched
9,334 earlier, the highest since June 7.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, declined 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 8.25 percent today.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
was little changed at 6.07 percent, the lowest level since May
4, according to prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  