-- Russia Inflation Overshoot Shows Risk to Goal as Food Costs Rise
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-07-04T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/russia-inflation-overshoot-shows-risk-to-goal-as-food-costs-rise.html
Russia ’s inflation overshoot
highlights the difficulties the central bank faces in keeping
consumer-price growth below last year’s record low as a weaker
ruble stokes food costs and utility tariffs rise, economists in
Moscow said.  Prices jumped 4.3 percent from a year earlier in June, the
fastest pace of 2012 and quicker than all 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey  estimated, the Federal Statistics Service
in Moscow said yesterday. Inflation from the previous month was
0.9 percent, compared with 0.5 percent in May, as produce prices
surged 13.4 percent, the service said.  Monetary-policy makers held price growth at a record-low
6.1 percent in 2011 and are targeting an improvement to 5
percent to 6 percent this year. Last month’s jump jeopardizes
those efforts, with inflation set to accelerate to as much as
6.5 percent by August, according to  Alexander Morozov , chief
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Moscow.  “What is surprising is how quickly headline inflation has
reversed its deceleration,” Morozov wrote yesterday in a note
to clients. “The central bank’s job of keeping inflation in the
range is seen as ‘Mission impossible.’”  The ruble, which dropped 9.2 percent last quarter after a
fall in  oil prices , Russia’s biggest export earner, fell 0.7
percent against the dollar to 32.36 by yesterday’s close of
trading in Moscow. The Micex Index rose 0.5 percent to 1,444.31,
its highest level since May 2.  Ruble Effect  Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said last month that
a drop in the currency wouldn’t immediately feed through to
inflation. The bank has left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged since December and is forecast to keep rates on hold
when it meets July 13.  “The weaker ruble is the main reason for the inflation
spike,” Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in Moscow, said yesterday in a phone interview.
The drop helped drive up costs for fruit and vegetables, which
are mostly imported in June, he said.  About 40 percent of the food consumed in Russia is
imported,  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  in
Moscow, wrote last week in a note. Food costs, which account for
30 percent of the  consumer price index , had risen at a slower
pace in the last year after a strong harvest.  While food inflation will probably accelerate as favorable
base effects dissipate, it will do so at a moderate pace,
Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist at  Barclays Capital  in
Moscow, said by e-mail.  ‘We’re Sure’  “We’re sure we’ll finish the year within the target
range,” central bank Deputy Chairman Sergey Shvetsov told
reporters in Moscow July 3.  Consumer prices may advance 1.5 percent this month, pushing
the annual figure to 5.9 percent, after the government delayed
increases in tariffs for electricity and other regulated prices
to July 1 from January 1, according to Osakovskiy.  Consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in the  week  ending July 2,
the most since a jump of the same amount in January 2009, the
statistics service said yesterday in a separate statement.
Electricity prices surged 4.7 percent.  Cumulative price growth this year was 3.8 percent through
the end of that week, compared with 5.1 percent in the same
period of 2011, according to the statement.  In annual terms, Russia’s inflation rate was probably 4.8
percent as of July 2, HSBC’s Morozov said.  “With inflation now rising and domestic growth healthy, it
should become easier for the central bank to defend its recent
hawkish stance,”  Clemens Grafe , chief economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in Moscow, wrote yesterday in a note.
“Although we expect rates to remain on hold as long as credit
conditions are under pressure, owing to falling oil prices and
global risk, we think the central bank will consider rate hikes
if and when the world economy stabilizes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  