-- Russia Stocks Rise for Fourth Day on Policy Easing Speculation
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-04T15:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/russia-stocks-fall-first-day-in-four-as-oil-drops-on-global-woes.html
Russian stocks gained for the fourth
day as speculation Chinese and European central bankers will
ease monetary policy boosted appetite for riskier assets.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 0.5 percent to 1,444.31 by the close
in Moscow, the highest level since May 2. Federal Grid Co. and
OAO MRSK Holding added at least 1.8 percent after MRSK,  Russia ’s
largest electricity distribution company, confirmed that Andrey
Murov, deputy chairman of Federal Grid, was appointed acting
chief executive officer. United Co. Rusal fell 1.3 percent as
aluminum prices declined in  London .  The  European Central Bank  will cut  interest rates  tomorrow,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists, and a government-
linked newspaper in  China  said policy makers may lower lenders’
reserve requirements three more times this year. Further
monetary policy easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve may be needed
as the organization reduced its growth estimate for the world’s
biggest economy, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “Right now investors are counting on an ECB decision,”
Sergey Fundobny, head of research at Arbat Capital Management,
which oversees $50 million in Russian equities, said by phone
from Moscow. “The Russian market is past the bottom levels. I
expect the market to extend gains for a few weeks.”  No Bull Market  Crude fell 0.8 percent to $86.95 a barrel in  New York  after
reaching a one-month high yesterday. Oil and gas contribute
about 50 percent of Russia’s state revenue.  Stocks fell as much as 0.8 percent earlier after Russian
service-industry growth slowed for the fourth month in five in
June as new business expanded the least since September 2010,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc. U.S. markets are closed today
for a national holiday.  The  dollar-denominated RTS Index  closed little changed at
1,408.21. MSCI Inc’s gauge of emerging-market stocks was also
little changed at 956.26.  “The global slowdown has several more quarters to run, and
so we do not see the advances as the start of a new cyclical
 bull market ,” VTB Capital analysts led by Alexei Zabotkin, said
in an e-mailed research note today.  Russia’s benchmark index, which has added 3 percent this
year, trades at 5.4 times  estimated earnings . That compares with
9.7 times projected earnings for MSCI’s emerging-market gauge,
which has gained 4.4 percent this year.  Rosneft added 0.5 percent to 212.51 rubles, reversing
earlier losses. The oil producer bought back about 3 percent of
its stock or 322 million shares, according to a regulatory
filing from the Moscow-based company today. That stake is valued
at 68.3 billion rubles ($2.1 billion), based on a price of 212
rubles a share, which Rosneft’s board set in May.  Russia’s equities  trade  at the cheapest valuations among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg, reflecting concern the
country is too reliant on energy exports.  -- With assistance from Scott Rose and Stephen Bierman in
Moscow; Editors: Alex Nicholson, Linda Shen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  