-- S&P Raises Philippines’ Credit Rating to Nine-Year High
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-07-05T01:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/s-p-raises-philippines-credit-rating-to-nine-year-high.html
The  Philippines ’ debt rating was
raised to the highest level since 2003 by  Standard & Poor’s ,
taking President  Benigno Aquino  nearer his goal of attaining
investment grade and spurring gains in bonds and the peso.  The nation’s long-term foreign currency-denominated debt
was raised one level to BB+ from BB, S&P said in a statement
yesterday. That’s one step below investment grade and on a par
with neighboring Indonesia. The outlook on the rating is stable.  “The foreign currency rating upgrade reflects our
assessment of gradually easing fiscal vulnerability,”  Agost Benard , a Singapore-based analyst at Standard & Poor’s, said in
the statement. “The rating action also reflects the country’s
strengthening external position, with remittances and an
expanding service export sector continuing to drive current-
account surpluses.”  Emerging nations from  Brazil  to  Indonesia  have won credit-
rating upgrades in the past year as governments contained budget
deficits. A higher assessment for the Philippines could help
Aquino as he moves to boost spending to a record this year and
seeks $16 billion of investment in roads, bridges and airports
to shield the economy from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The yield on the 5.875 percent peso bonds due March 2032
fell seven basis points to 5.78 percent, the lowest since March
16, according to Tradition Financial Services. The rate fell by
the most in more than a month. The peso climbed 0.4 percent to
41.665 per dollar as of 9:46 a.m., according to Tullett Prebon
Plc.  Best Performer  The peso is up about 5 percent against the dollar in 2012,
the best performer in a basket of 11 major Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index
climbed 0.5 percent as of 9:48 a.m. today.  S&P’s recognition of the nation’s strong external position,
growth prospects and improving fiscal sector adds fundamental
support to the market, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor
Amando Tetangco said yesterday after the ratings action.  Moody’s Investors Service boosted its outlook on the
Philippines to positive in May, citing improving debt levels.
 Fitch Ratings  raised the country’s debt to one step below
investment grade in June 2011.  S&P’s move is “very positive because it promotes the
country’s macroeconomic and fiscal context,” said Fitz Aclan,
who helps manage 850 billion pesos ($20.4 billion) at Manila-
based BDO Unibank Inc. “There could be some upward movement for
our sovereign bonds, even our local bonds. This will also be
positive for equities.”  Narrow Deficit  Aquino plans to narrow the budget shortfall to 2 percent of
gross domestic product by 2013 from a target of 2.6 percent this
year. The government has stepped up efforts to catch tax evaders
and smugglers, and has drawn up bills aimed at increasing
revenue to narrow the fiscal deficit.  “We expect further rating improvements will likely be
driven by either our appraisal of improving political and
institutional factors or by evidence of a sustainable structural
revenue improvement,” S&P said. “Conversely, we may lower the
ratings if the government’s commitment to fiscal consolidation
weakens, resulting in rising debt, or if the external liquidity
position deteriorates significantly.”  The $200 billion economy grew 6.4 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace since 2010. Aquino is aiming for an
expansion of as much as 8 percent annually to cut poverty.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  