-- Samsung Loses Bid to Delay Nexus Sales Ban in Apple Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-04T02:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/samsung-loses-bid-to-delay-nexus-sales-ban-in-apple-case.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  lost its bid
to delay a ban on sales of its Galaxy Nexus smartphone in the
U.S. until an appeals court rules on the matter.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh yesterday rejected Samsung’s
request to stay her June 29 order while the South Korean company
pursues an appeal. Koh, on July 2, denied a similar request by
Samsung to put on hold a June 26 order blocking U.S. sales of
the company’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 computer.  Samsung “has not raised a substantial question of
invalidity” of the patents at issue in a dispute with Apple
Inc., Koh wrote in yesterday’s order in  San Jose ,  California .
The court “is not persuaded that Samsung has raised a
substantial question or shown a likelihood of prevailing on the
merits of its invalidity arguments on appeal.”  Samsung and Cupertino, California-based  Apple (AAPL) , the world’s
two biggest makers of high-end phones, have accused each other
of copying designs and technology for mobile devices and are
fighting patent battles on four continents to retain their
dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone market.  Koh rejected Samsung’s arguments that it will suffer
“irreparable harm” from the injunction.  “In light of the Galaxy Nexus’s meager sales figures, any
such loss in sales would be only a minuscule fraction of the
entire smartphone market and would fall short of demonstrating
loss of ‘substantial’ market share,” Koh wrote.  Nexus Sales  The Nexus phone is estimated to sell fewer than 1 million
units a year in the U.S., according to Shin Hyun Joon, a Seoul-
based analyst at Dongbu Securities Co. Samsung, which doesn’t
disclose shipment figures for smartphones and tablet computers,
sold 44.5 million smartphones globally in the first quarter,
topping Apple, according to market researcher  Strategy
Analytics .  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Samsung will be releasing a software patch
for the Galaxy Nexus to address the court’s earlier decision,
said Jim Prosser, a spokesman at Google. The patch should be
released imminently, he said. The update aims to enable Samsung
to keep shipping the device.  “We are working closely with Google to resolve this
matter,” Samsung said in an e-mailed statement today. The
patent in dispute concerns Google’s search function, Samsung
said.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-
cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  