-- Saudi Mortgage Law Opens Kingdom to Home Lending Surge
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-07-04T10:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/saudi-mortgage-law-opens-kingdom-to-home-lending-surge.html
Saudi Arabia ’s mortgage law, approved
two days ago after more than a decade of debate, will encourage
banks to expand lending in a $16 billion market that now
accounts for less than 4 percent of all home purchases.  The market may increase to about $32 billion annually over
the next 10 years, providing opportunities for lenders, property
developers and middle-class Saudi homebuyers, according to
Naveed Siddiqui, chief executive officer of  Capitas Group
International , a Saudi company focused on  Islamic finance .  “The financial sector alone in Saudi Arabia will not be
able to fill the gap,” he said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The government will have to allow non-banking 
financial institutions such as mortgage companies to come in to
stimulate the market.”  The package of five separate laws will overhaul the
home-finance market including the creation of mortgage 
providers, the foreclosure process and the oversight of lenders.
Regulations required to implement the law will be issued within
three months, Saudi Arabia’s finance minister Ibrahim al-Assaf
said in comments published by the Saudi Press Agency.  The changes are designed to ease the concerns of lenders
discouraged by unclear regulation that can lead to lengthy court
disputes. Currently the majority of mortgages are provided by
the state’s Real Estate Development Fund, which offers interest-
free loans to low-income buyers. The fund has a default rate of
30 percent, Director General Muhammad Al-Abdani said in an
interview yesterday.  Few Mortgages  About 3.5 percent of all home purchases in the kingdom,
the world’s largest oil exporter, are financed through
mortgages. That compares with 17 percent in the  United Arab
Emirates  and 70 percent in the U.K. Saudi banks provided 29.3
billion riyals ($7.8 billion) in mortgages last year, 27
percent more than in 2010, according to the  Saudi Arabian
Monetary Agency , SAMA.  “Clarity on the foreclosure process is likely to allow
banks to be slightly more aggressive in mortgage lending,” Jan Pawel Hasman, an analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said by e-
mail. “Mortgages have been one of the key drivers for retail
loan growth over the last 12 months.”  The regulation will lead to the establishment of licensed
mortgage providers overseen by the central bank, Ibrahim Al
Naseri, a lawyer who served as a general counsel for the Saudi
Market Authority, said in a phone interview yesterday. While
most will be private, it’s likely that state providers like
 Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  in the U.S. will be established for
refinancing, he said. The state real estate fund will probably
help lower-income buyers secure mortgages from banks by granting
them interest-free loans of 500,000 riyals, he said.  Deutsche Bank  Almost all banks operating in Saudi Arabia have built up
their mortgage business over the last 12 months to 18 months in
anticipation of the law change, Hasman said.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
formed a $110 million joint venture for mortgages compliant with
Islamic sharia law in April 2010 and the Frankfurt-based lender
is already giving out 5-year to 20-year mortgages to both Saudis
and foreigners living there.  Tamweel PJSC climbed as much as 2.9 to the highest in more
than two months today amid investor speculation that the Dubai-
based mortgage provider may expand into Saudi Arabia following
the law’s passage.  “Affordability will remain an issue since there is still a
mismatch between average prices in the main cities and average
incomes,” said James Reeve, the London-based senior economist
at  Samba Financial Group. (SAMBA)   Population Explosion  Saudi Arabia’s population quadrupled over the last 40 years
to 28.7 million, creating a housing shortage. The Arab world’s
largest economy needs to build 1.25 million new homes by 2014,
according to the country’s development plan. In March 2011,  King Abdullah  announced a plan to spend $67 billion to build 500,000
homes to tackle the shortage at a time revolution and political
unrest prevailed in the  Middle East . The monarch also turned the
country’s housing authority into a ministry with a budget of 15
billion riyals.  Under the new law, the property being purchased will serve
as collateral rather than the borrower’s salary as it is now.
That will help more low- and mid-income people secure loans,
said Hossam Al Rashoudi, a spokesman for Maskan Arabia
Investment and Development, which is building 600 homes in
 Riyadh . The law will also help developers by making  project
financing  easier to obtain, he said.  Collateral Changes  Banks currently require applicants to give up control of
their accounts by deducting monthly mortgage payments directly.
A temporary effect of the law may be a jump in property prices
as speculators try to benefit from the law’s passage, he said.
The increase will be short-lived because prices are already too
high for most Saudi buyers, he said.  “The Mortgage Law will energize the property sector of the
kingdom by increasing the affordability of real estate units,”
Dubai-based developer  Emaar PJSC (EMAAR)  said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “It will help drive demand for residential property
by making homes more affordable to a larger cross-section of the
population.”  Provisions about evictions and home foreclosures led to
disagreements between the government and the Shura Council, an
adviser to the king, delaying its passage for more than a
decade. A draft law was approved in April 2011 after the monarch
pledged more than $82 billion to fund homebuilding.  ‘Magic Switch’  “Enactment of the mortgage law will not flip a magic
switch that will automatically turn renters into homeowners,”
Capitas’s general council Nasser Al-Nubani wrote in a report.
“In order for the mortgage law to deliver on its long-term
objective of increasing homeownership in the kingdom, two
critical things must happen: The mortgage law must be supported
by effective regulation, and  developers  must be able to quantify
the profitability of building homes for middle-market
homebuyers.”  Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All-Share Real Estate Development
Industries Index, which includes eight developers, climbed 7.7
percent since the law was approved on July 2. That compares with
a 2.2 percent gain for the broader  Tadawul All-Share Index. (SASEIDX) 
Emaar shares increased by 6.6 percent that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  