-- BP-Led Shah Deniz Group to Buy ‘Large Stake’ in EU Pipe
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-07-04T13:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/shah-deniz-partners-to-buy-large-stake-in-pipeline-to-europe.html
Partners in the BP Plc-led Shah Deniz
group will buy a “large stake” in the pipeline they will
select to deliver Azeri gas to  Europe  from the Turkish border,
State Oil Co. of  Azerbaijan  President Rovnaq Abdullayev said.  “We have told both Nabucco West and Trans-Adriatic
Pipeline partners that we will buy a large stake from the
pipeline project we choose,” Abdullayev told reporters today in
Azerbaijan’s third city of Sumqayit. “It will be so large a
stake that it will enable us to make decisions.”  The Shah Deniz group, also including  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Total SA (FP) ,
OAO Lukoil, Naftiran Intertrade Co. and Turkiye Petrolleri AO,
will decide between the pipelines in May 2013, he said.  Azerbaijan and Turkey agreed on June 26 to build a 2,000
kilometer (1,240 mile) trans-Anatolia  gas pipeline , known as
Tanap, to ship Azeri gas to the European Union through  Turkey .  The Azeri state oil company, known as Socar, will share its
80 percent in Tanap with the Shah Deniz partners, Abdullayev
said, declining to elaborate. Turkey’s Boru Hatlari Ile Petrol
Tasima AS and Turkiye Petrolleri AO hold a 20 percent stake.  The EU plans to diversify supply away from  Russia , provider
of a quarter of its natural gas, after disruptions of deliveries
sent through Ukraine following disputes between the two nations.  “It’s unlikely any member of the Shah Deniz consortium
will be able to buy a large enough share in either the Nabucco
or the TAP project to be able to make decisions on a unilateral
basis,” said Philipp Chladek, a Bloomberg Industries analyst.
“None of the current shareholders of the pipeline projects hold
the majority. They pursue very different interests, and all of
them will have to be taken account of.”  BP will need to coordinate with the Shah Deniz group to
avoid conflicts of interest should it join TAP, Abdullayev said.
Shah Deniz Vice President Al Cook said in an interview last
month that BP was seeking a “material stake” in the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  