-- Shard Skyscraper Adds Offices to London Stung By Slowdown
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-07-05T11:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/shard-skyscraper-adds-offices-to-london-stung-by-slowdown.html
The Shard’s owners were so optimistic
about rising rents in 2010 that they bought out Transport for
 London ’s contract to rent about a third of the skyscraper. They
have yet to find a new tenant for the 72-story tower’s offices.  Sellar Property Group Ltd. and the Qatar Central Bank
anticipated rents of as much as 70 pounds ($110) a square foot,
among London’s highest, when the subway-system operator was paid
to break its lease. Demand for prime  office space  in the capital
has since tumbled and average rents in the nearby  City of London 
financial district are about 55 pounds a square foot.  The Shard, western  Europe ’s tallest building at 1,016 feet
(310 meters), is among five new skyscraper projects that will
add about 3.8 million square feet (350,000 square meters) of
prime space within a mile of the  Bank of England . The amount of
new and refurbished office space leased in London last year was
the lowest in a decade amid the financial-services industry’s
contraction and Europe’s lingering debt crisis, real estate
broker Drivers Jonas Deloitte said in  May .  Cutting rents “to the point where you’re generating
customers, even if you have to steal them away” from rival
landlords, “would probably be a good idea,” said  Mark
Thornton , a senior fellow at Ludwig von Mises Institute in
Auburn,  Alabama , who has researched the relationship between
skyscrapers and recessions.  Shangri-La Hotel  The Renzo Piano-designed skyscraper, named for its tapering
icicle shape, took 12 years of planning and construction by
 Irvine  Sellar, chairman of the London-based developer. His
company owns 5 percent of the Shard, a mix of offices, shops,
apartments and a Shangri-La hotel. The Qatar Central Bank owns
95 percent after buying into the project in 2009.  Sellar, 73, said he “wouldn’t want any one tenant to
dominate the Shard” and predicted the entire tower will be
leased by the end of 2014. “We are negotiating with various
office occupiers for space well in excess of 100,000 square
feet,” he said in a June 29 interview.  Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jabr al-Thani, Qatar’s prime
minister, will today mark the building’s inauguration with
Prince Andrew. Twelve lasers and 30 searchlights will beam out
from the Shard at 10:15 p.m., illuminating London landmarks
including Tower Bridge and the Houses of Parliament. The
ceremonies will culminate with the Shard being lit from all
sides, and the London Philharmonic Orchestra will perform
American composer  Aaron Copland ’s classic “Fanfare for the
Common Man.”  Below Peak  Construction began in March 2009 as London’s property
market started to bounce back from the global financial crisis.
After buying out Transport for London, Sellar predicted that the
Shard’s completion would coincide with a shortage of prime
office space in the city and rising lease rates.  Central London office rents have risen about 10 percent
from that time through the first three months of this year. They
remain 15 percent below their peak in 2008, according to data
compiled by Investment Property Databank Ltd. Rents for the best
space in the City of London financial district are about 55
pounds a square foot and about 95 pounds in the  West End ,  Jones
Lang  LaSalle Inc. said in March.  Central London’s office vacancy rate fell to 5.4 percent
from 5.8 percent through the first quarter of this year,
according to  Jones Lang .  ‘Moribund’ Market  Demand for even the best London space has turned “moribund
of late,” Anthony Duggan, head of research at Drivers Jonas
Deloitte, wrote in May. Some companies in the City are leasing
second-hand space to cut costs, which “does little to instill
optimism” for developers with nearly completed buildings,
Duggan wrote.  The U.K. entered its second recession in three years in the
first quarter. The central bank announced a program to boost
lending last month and Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
wants to increase the bank’s  bond-purchase program  to stimulate
growth. Employment in London’s financial-services industry may
fall to its lowest level in about 16 years, the Centre for
Economics & Business Research Ltd. said May 9.  The amount of office space newly leased in the City last
year fell 44 percent compared with 2010, according to Jones
Lang. The 3.4 million square feet that was rented was the lowest
amount since 2003, according to the Chicago-based broker.
Financial-services companies accounted for a fifth of the space,
less than half that of the previous year, Jones Lang  said.   The Place  The Shard will increase the amount of newly built and still
empty office space in London by about 15 percent to 4.6 million
square feet, according to data compiled by Drivers Jonas
Deloitte. When The Place, a 17-story building paired with the
Shard, is completed next year it will add 429,000 square feet.  Sellar said he plans to develop another million square feet
of property in the neighborhood on land he already owns. “I
don’t want to be known purely for developing tall buildings,”
he said. “I like doing things that are out of the ordinary.”  The Shard, together with The Place, will cost about 1.5
billion pounds to construct, including the purchase price of
sites and interest on debt, Sellar said. They may be valued at
2.5 billion pounds on completion, he said.  The skyscraper has 44 elevators, 306 flights of stairs,
11,000 glass panels and a swimming pool on the 52nd floor.
Starting in February, visitors will be able to  see  the sites of
four other towers planned or under construction in the City from
the observatory on The Shard’s top floor.  Walkie-Talkie  Aon Corp., the largest insurance broker, in November agreed
to lease about a third of British Land Co.’s Leadenhall
Building, known as the Cheesegrater.  Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) 
and Canary Wharf Group Plc last month agreed to rent out 51,000
square feet at 20 Fenchurch Street, the  office tower  known as
the Walkie-Talkie, to Markel International Ltd. It’s due for
completion in 2014.  Construction hasn’t started on the  100 Bishopsgate  tower
near Liverpool Street station planned by Great Portland Estates
Plc and Brookfield Office Properties Inc. Development of the
Pinnacle, a 64-story office tower with a million square feet of
space has stalled, according to Driver Jonas Deloitte.  The Shard, with 600,000 square feet of office space from
the fourth to 28th floors, was developed in the area of central
London least prized by office building buyers. The Southbank
district, on the opposite side of the  River Thames  from the
City, has the highest yields for commercial real estate, meaning
investors pay lower multiples of the annual rent for property
there than other central London areas, IPD and broker
Farebrother Ltd.  said  June 14.  Rent Increase?  The Shard may nevertheless outperform the U.K. economy
through 2014 because a lack of new office buildings in London
may result in rents increasing in the next two years,  Alan Carter , a real estate analyst at Investec Ltd., said by
telephone.  “It may yet turn out to be in the right place
geographically,” he said.  Carter said he thinks businesses will be willing to pay
rents of 55 pounds a square foot or more for space in the
building. Transport for London had agreed to pay 38.50 pounds a
square foot.  Sellar, who made his first fortune selling flared jeans in
the 1960s, said tenants will likely pay from 55 pounds to 75
pounds a square foot.  The Shard’s owners “may not be interested in long-term
leases at 50 percent discounts,” said Thornton of the Ludwig
von Mises Institute. “So they may not do that, even though
that’s probably what they should do.”  Extra Floors  Skyscraper economic models suggest developers compete to
add floors to become a city’s most prominent building and that
allows them to charge a premium, said Colin Lizieri, a real
estate professor at  Cambridge University .  Constructing extra floors is expensive and a developer
“can go for something that is a prestige statement, which in
the long run might not give them the financial rewards,” said
Lizieri. “If somebody else then comes and beats you, then
you’ve overinvested.”  Sellar said he’s confident that won’t happen.  “You’ve got the river facing it to the north and it will
not be overshadowed by other buildings,” he said. The Shard
“will stand in splendid isolation for a long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 