-- Shard Architect Renzo Piano Says Tower Not Arrogant
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-07-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/shard-architect-renzo-piano-says-tower-not-arrogant-interview.html
“This building is not going to be a
symbol of arrogance.”  Architect  Renzo Piano  is briefing reporters on the 14th
floor of the European Union’s tallest skyscraper: the 310-meter
(1,017 feet) Shard on the south bank of London’s Thames, which
he designed and nicknamed, and is formally inaugurating today.  Seated beside him are developer  Irvine  Sellar of Sellar
Property Group Ltd., and Qatar Central Bank Governor Sheikh
Abdullah Bin Saoud Al Thani. They’re the main funders of a
building that, combined with a much smaller adjacent
development, will cost 1.5 billion pounds ($2.34 billion) on
completion, according to Sellar.  Attacked during its construction as an emblem of lucre and
greed, the  Shard  -- a tall, slim tepee with clear glass sides
that refuse to join at the top -- seems to have been adopted by
Londoners, who gaze up at it and take snaps.  The Italian architect calls the edifice “a little town”
that overlooks  London ’s oldest bridge and stands on the site of
a newly discovered 2nd century B.C. Roman villa.  Piano, 74, has deliberately avoided turning the Shard into
another heavily guarded corporate high-rise. Once occupied, it
will feature offices, luxury apartments, shops, a Shangri-La
hotel, three floors of restaurants, and a ticketed public
viewing gallery.  The tower is practically built over the rail tracks of
London Bridge station: Its outdoor piazza is a crossing point
for the station’s 300,000 or so daily travelers.  Crystal Tower  As rain thrashes against his crystal tower, Piano joins me
for a conversation in front of a large Shard maquette. The
genteel Genoese sports a patchy white beard and a beige summer
suit with thin blue stripes matching the color of his shirt.  I ask how it feels to complete a building in a global
recession and risk it becoming the signpost for a bygone era of
wealth. Piano turns philosophical, as architects do.  “The time of cities is a long time,” he says, likening
the lifespan of architecture to that of rivers, forests, and
mountains. “The economy goes on a much shorter time: It goes up
and down.”  “Even the Empire State Building was built in the wrong
moment, and it’s still there,” he says. “This building was
conceived before the crisis, and it will enjoy life after the
crisis.”  Piano doesn’t mind the Shard being the lone skyscraper on
the sparsely built southern banks of the Thames. He says that’s
exactly why it’s the right place for it: across the river from
the capital’s core. “Good  cities  are made by an element of
surprise,” he says. “The point is that you have to make a good
surprise, not a bad surprise.”  Rogers, Pritzker  Piano sprang to fame at a young age. Son of a Genoese
building contractor, he worked in the Philadelphia office of
architect Louis Kahn before teaming up with  Richard Rogers  to
win the 1971 competition for the Pompidou Center in Paris --
still his best-known work. He won the Pritzker Architecture
Prize in 1998.  Reluctant to take credit for reinventing museums, he says
architects don’t change the world, they witness shifts within
it. With Pompidou, he and Rogers captured the need for a
cultural space that was “not intimidating, accessible, open.”  New York is now keeping him busy: He’s designing a new
campus (on Broadway and 125th Street) for  Columbia University ,
and witnessing another “big change,” as the campus is “not
closed, not gated: It’s open to the street.”  Despite all the global work, Piano keeps his practice
small: He lives and works mainly in Paris, and his offices
there, in Genoa and in  New York  employ no more than 150 people.  What does he do to unwind? “Sailing,” he says with a
smile, and then reverts to language that could apply to his
architecture. “It’s about freedom, and in some ways it’s about
lightness -- the sense of levitation.”  Information:  http://londonbridgequarter.com/  and
 http://www.the-shard.com/  Tickets for the viewing gallery --
which opens on Feb. 1, 2013 -- will go on sale tomorrow, costing
24.95 pounds per adult and 18.95 pounds per child.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the auction
market,  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art,  Warwick Thompson  on
London theater and  Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 