-- South Sudanese Still Waiting for Benefits of Independence
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-07-05T12:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/south-sudanese-are-awaiting-benefits-of-independence.html
When Acual Bak left  Sudan  for newly
independent South Sudan in December, she expected the government
to provide basic services and allocate her family a plot of land
to start a new life.  Almost seven months on, Bak is living in grass hut with a
roof made from green tarpaulin at a temporary camp for returnees
outside of Aweil, the capital of Northern Bahr el-Ghazal state.
She’s one of about 375,000 southerners who the International
Organization for Migration says have made the trip from Sudan
since October 2010.  The fate of the returnees is one of a series of challenges
that have damped the celebratory mood as the world’s newest
nation prepares to mark its first year of independence on July
9. Since secession,  South Sudan  has had to cope with armed
conflict with Sudan, an economic crisis sparked by the
government’s decision to halt oil production, corruption and
ethnic violence. Like most residents, Bak, 26, is waiting for
the material benefits of her country’s freedom.  “Life is a bit difficult,” she said in a June 25
interview at the Apada camp. “There are basically no services.
There is no proper work, and if you get sick you have to walk
all the way to the town to get medication.”  More than half of the country’s population lives below the
poverty line, and the nation has some of the lowest education
and health levels in the world, according the  World Bank . The
 United Nations  says the number of people requiring food aid has
doubled to 2.4 million since last year.  Civil War  South Sudan, which is slightly larger than  France  and has
about 100 miles of paved roads, broke away from Sudan after an
overhwelming yes vote in a referendum that was the culmination
of a peace agreement in 2005. The accord was intended to end a
civil war that lasted for almost 50 years, except for a cease-
fire from 1972 to 1983, between the Muslim north and the south,
where Christianity and traditional religions dominate. About 2
million people died in the second phase of the conflict.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , in a statement read out
yesterday at the U.S. Embassy in Juba, the capital, to mark
American independence day, said “significant challenges”
imperil South Sudan’s future.  “Conflict and unresolved issues with Sudan, and internal
inter-ethnic tensions have led to increased fighting and
economic hardship that threaten to compromise the very
foundation on which South Sudan’s future will be built,” she
said.  Building Schools  Even with the difficulties of the first year of freedom
from the north, Elizabeth Nyalut Duk, a 15-year-old student,
said her newly built school in the village of Amajal in Northern
Bahr el-Ghazal state is a sign of progress.  “The separation of South Sudan as a new-born country
brings great change to us, and it even gives us a chance to
learn in the school that has been constructed,” she said in an
interview. “We are an independent country and things that we
were requesting from the north are now existing here.”  South Sudan gained independence from Sudan with the
expectation that it could kick start development with the
revenue it would earn by assuming control of three-quarters of
the former united country’s output of 490,000 barrels of oil a
day.  China National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s ONGC Videsh Ltd. operate most of the
 oil wells  in the two countries.  Stolen Funds  Much of the oil money has been squandered. President  Salva Kiir  wrote a letter on May 3 to 75 former and current “senior”
government officials requesting that they return a total of $4
billion in stolen government funds.  The sheer breadth of the graft has led some South Sudanese
to question the government’s ability to manage the oil wealth.  “It’s a failure because we have not been able to get a
hold of corruption,” Alfred Lokuji, dean of Juba University’s
College of Community and Rural Development Studies, said in a
July 2 interview.  Since January, the revenues dried up.  Disputes with Sudan over transportation fees it would have
to pay to ship its crude through its northern neighbor to export
markets prompted the south to shut down output. The authorities
in Juba accused President Umar al-Bashir’s government in
Khartoum of stealing $815 million worth of its crude. Sudan said
it was confiscated to pay unpaid fees.  Managing Oil  “Even if the oil were flowing, the fundamental problem
remains: how to manage it,” Lokuji said.  The shutdown resulted in South Sudan losing 98 percent of
its revenue, and annual inflation accelerated to 79.5 percent in
May from 29.5 percent the previous month. While the government
has pledged to secure loans to shore up its shrinking foreign-
exchange reserves, Finance Minister Kosti Manibe Ngai presented
an austerity budget in June, reducing spending by 26 percent,
and said further cuts may be necessary.  “One year on from the jubilation of independence, South
Sudan is buckling under a failing economy, which is pushing
essential food and supplies way beyond the reach of ordinary
people,” Helen McElhinney, a policy adviser in Juba for aid
group Oxfam International, said in a July 4 e-mailed response to
questions.  Oil Pipelines  South Sudan has said it’s seeking to build new pipelines to
carry its crude through  Kenya  and  Ethiopia . While they may take
years to complete, in the short term, a resumption of oil
exports may depend on reaching a settlement with Sudan on using
its pipelines and port.  African Union-mediated talks between the two countries have
failed to yield an agreement on oil and other post-secession
issues, including the rights of citizens of both countries on
either side of the border and the status of the disputed
territory of Abyei and other contested border regions.  Talks broke down in April as a border conflict brought the
two countries to the brink of war. Sudanese fighter jets
launched air strikes inside South Sudanese territory, while the
Southern army occupied and then withdrew from Heglig, a
contested area that accounts for half of Sudan’s oil output.  The talks resumed last month in the Ethiopian capital,
 Addis Ababa , after the UN and the  African Union  demanded that
the two countries return to negotiations and settle their
differences.  The UN Special Representative to South Sudan, Hilde Johnson, today called the negotiations “absolutely
fundamental” to the country’s progress.  “It’s been a tough start and we have seen, and we are
still seeing, challenges in the areas of security, the economic
situation and now also significant humanitarian challenges,”
she told reporters in Nairobi, Kenya’s capital.  Ethnic Violence  Inside South Sudan, ethnic violence claimed hundreds of
lives, particularly in Jonglei, an eastern state bordering
Ethiopia that is mostly covered by the Block B oil concession in
which  Total SA (FP)  holds a 32.5 percent stake.  The UN said more than 1,000 people were killed in Jonglei
in 2011, mostly in fighting between the Murle and Lou Nuer
ethnic groups. At least 900 people, mostly Murle, were killed in
attacks and counterattacks from December to February, according
to a report released on May 25 by the  UN peacekeeping mission in
South Sudan .  “The government was slow to respond in any robust way, and
failed to stop the Lou Nuer advancing,” the UN mission said.
“Actions taken came too late and insufficient troops were
deployed at the critical time.”  Some government officials recognize the disappointments and
say that the authorities need to do more to meet the needs of
the nation’s people.  Government Accountability  “A lot needs to be done in the sense of accountability to
our people,” David Ochen Tokuraro, the deputy director of
administration and finance for Eastern Equatoria state, said in
an interview. “Our people, sometimes they look at our
government in a negative manner.”  Nyan Tuch, who has been living in the Apada camp for
returnees outside of Aweil since she returned from Sudan about
20 months ago, says she’s confident that conditions will
improve.  “Here we are living in a grass thatch house, but we are
looking for the government to soon make sure we have better
housing,” said Tuch, a 50-year-old mother of five. “And I’m
proud. This is my place. Despite the conditions I am in, I have
no regret.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba, South Sudan, at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  