-- Spain Court to Probe Bankia on Events Leading to Bank Rescue
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-07-04T19:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/spain-court-to-probe-bankia-rato-on-events-leading-to-rescue.html
A Spanish judge will investigate the
 Bankia (BKIA)  group and its former Chairman  Rodrigo Rato  after the
lender needed a record government bailout.  Fernando Andreu, a judge at the National Court in Madrid,
agreed to investigate a complaint made by  Union, Progreso y
Democracia , a left-wing party, over allegations including
deception, false accounting and fraudulent administration,
according to a ruling distributed by the court today. The judge
will probe Bankia, its parent and 33 board members including the
63-year-old Rato.  The judge will look into the initial public offering of
Bankia SA in July of last year, the restatement of its  earnings 
that turned up 2.79 billion euros ($3.5 billion) of losses, and
Spain’s takeover and rescue of the Bankia group with 23.5
billion euros of state support.  Spain  nationalized the parent
company last week after experts appointed by the country’s bank
rescue fund said it had a negative value of 13.6 billion euros.  “Obviously, as many people who collaborated in the
creation and maintenance of such a fiction would have to answer
for such facts,” the ruling said. The cost of cleaning up the
group “means without doubt grave damage to the national
economy.”  A Bankia official declined to comment when reached by
phone. A call to Caja Madrid, where Rato is chairman, went
unanswered. The decision made public today can still be
appealed, the judge said in his ruling.  CEO Departure  Francisco Verdu resigned as chief executive officer of
Bankia, the banking group said today in a one-sentence
statement. The resignation is effective immediately, Bankia said
without specifying who would replace him.  Verdu and board member Angel Acebes, a former interior
minister in the government of Jose Maria Aznar, are also to be
investigated.  While the facts of the case merit a criminal investigation,
it’s still “not possible to establish in a concrete and
definite way the level of responsibility” of each of the
parties, the ruling said.  The Bankia group was formed in 2010 from the merger of
seven savings banks, including Caja  Madrid  and Bancaja. The
shares of Bankia SA have lost three-quarters of their value
since the IPO.  The judge has called former Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez and Julio Seguro, head of the market
regulator, as witnesses in the case, as well as Francisco Celma,
a partner at Deloitte. He ordered Bankia and BFA, its parent, to
submit minutes of board meetings since December 2010.  He told the Bank of Spain to provide all of its inspection
reports for Bankia and asked the lender to provide details of
payments to board members and executives after December 2010,
when it received a first 4.47 billion-euro installment of state
support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  