-- Spanish Drugmakers Fleeing Crisis Follow Almirall’s Path
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-07-05T10:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/spanish-drugmakers-fleeing-crisis-follow-almirall-s-path.html
As  Spain ’s economy was booming more
than a decade ago, drugmaker  Almirall SA (ALM)  decided it was time to
boost international sales, treading a path that other companies
are now following to offset health cuts in the debt-ravaged
country.  Almirall, Spain’s biggest publicly traded drugmaker, will
accelerate its strategy to rely less on the “challenging”
Spanish market, Chief Financial Officer Daniel Martinez said in
an interview. Three-quarters of the Barcelona-based company’s
sales will come from outside Spain by 2014, up from 57 percent
now and 28 percent in 2003, he said.  “From a value standpoint, the Spanish health-care market
will not grow,” Martinez said. “When we expand our sales
abroad with our own products, the gross margin is higher than
with a licensed product” and Almirall is mainly selling its own
products outside Spain, he said.  The company makes Actikerall skin treatments and the
multiple sclerosis drug Sativex, and  serves  more than 70
countries. Almirall’s transformation may be a template for the
nation’s drug industry. Cutbacks and delayed payments from the
government and state hospitals have forced drugmakers from
Almirall to  Faes Farma SA (FAE)  and  Laboratorios Farmaceuticos Rovi SA (ROVI) 
to speed up their search for new markets.  Shares Climb  While Vizcaya-based Faes Farma still gets most its revenue
from Spain and  Portugal , “in two years, most of our sales ought
to come from outside Spain,” said Gonzalo Lopez, general
manager. More than 60 percent of the company’s sales aren’t
affected by government spending cuts as they don’t rely on
reimbursements, he said.  “This would be a very positive and significant milestone
for Faes,” Francisco Salvador, a Madrid-based strategist at
FGA/MG Valores, said by phone today. “Even if the company faced
declines in revenue of as much as 20 percent in Spain due to
austerity measures, international growth would allow it
beat market expectations.”  Faes shares soared as much as 6.5 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since March, and were up 3.2 percent at 1.28 euros
as of 12:34 p.m. in Madrid trading. Almirall climbed 1.2 percent
to 6.12 euros. The Madrid Stock Exchange General Index fell 0.7
percent.  Spanish Cuts  The Spanish government’s spending on drugs sold through
pharmacies in 2013 will be 35 percent below 2009’s level as it
tries to reduce the  budget deficit , said Humberto Arnes,
director general of the trade group Farmaindustria. The market
is at a 10-year low, he said.  “Spanish drugmakers have no other way around this crisis
but to bolster their presence abroad,” Arnes said. “This,
however, is a process that takes a long time, especially as
local companies lack strong financial muscle or a big-enough
arsenal of products to enter other markets quickly.”  Almirall is seeking U.S. and European Union approval to
sell two new drugs: linaclotide, a treatment for irritable bowel
syndrome, and aclidinium bromide, for patients with chronic  lung
disease .  Rovi, whose treatments include Bemiparin blood thinner,
still gets 60 percent of sales from Spain.  “It will still take two or three years for our
international sales to be bigger than our national sales, which
are still doing well,” said Rovi Chief Financial Officer Javier Lopez-Belmonte. “The trend is to increase sales outside of
Spain and that’s one reason why the company is growing fast.”  Centralized Buying  The government’s cuts are affecting earnings of all health-
related companies in Spain, said Lopez of Faes Farma, which
makes allergy treatment bilastine.  Spanish Health Minister Ana Mato presented the regions with
a list last week of 426 drugs to be excluded from public
financing, in a bid to save 458 million euros ($576 million). In
April, Mato said that the health-care system would cut spending
by 7 billion euros by using more generics, reducing purchase
prices and centralizing buying. Spain is also charging patients
more of the cost of medicines depending on their income.  Faes Farma said in May that international sales were set to
grow faster as it expected to sign a licensing agreement this
year for bilastine in  Japan . The company already had a licensing
agreement with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  for 21 Latin American countries and
another with Menarini Group’s Invida for 17 countries in the
Asia-Pacific region, it  said  at the time.  Acquisition Strategy  Spanish health-care companies have also expanded abroad
through acquisitions. Last year,  Grifols SA (GRF) ,  Europe ’s largest
maker of blood-plasma products, bought Talecris Biotherapeutics
Holdings Corp., based in Research Triangle Park,  North Carolina ,
for about $4 billion.  From its Barcelona headquarters, Grifols first expanded
into neighboring Portugal and then into  Latin America . It now
counts subsidiaries in more than 20 countries and its products
are sold in more than 100 countries worldwide.  Grifols is ruling out other big purchases in the short
term, Deputy Chief Financial Officer Nuria Pascual said.  “The U.S. is one of the fastest-growing markets for us
especially compared with Europe, which is more stable now,”
Pascual said in an interview. “We are also growing very fast in
 China  and even in  Russia .”  Prim SA (PRM)  makes orthopedic devices and gets more than 80
percent of its revenue from the public health system. The
company is suffering payment delays of about 800 days in some of
Spain’s regions, Chairman Victoriano Prim said.  “Budget cuts are clearly affecting the industry’s
operations, especially by increasing waiting lists and the
length of treatments,” said 63-year-old Prim, whose great
grandfather Pedro Prim founded the Madrid-based business in
1870. “Our sales abroad have become crucial. We export about 40
percent of our sales, mainly to Europe and the U.S., and this
will continue to grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  