-- States Steal Federal Foreclosure Funds at Their Own Peril
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-04T22:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/states-steal-federal-foreclosure-funds-at-their-own-peril.html
The U.S. housing market is showing
tentative signs of life as demand for new homes and housing
prices begin to rise in some areas.  Yet  pitfalls  remain, including about 12 million borrowers
who still owe more on their “underwater” mortgages than their
homes are worth. To help some of those people, the recent $25
billion national  mortgage settlement  required five large banks
to pay states $2.5 billion for foreclosure prevention and other
housing-related efforts.  Here’s the problem: many states -- including some  hardest
hit  by the housing bust -- are diverting more than $1 billion of
that settlement money to fill budget gaps, fund public
universities and even bankroll litigation against defective
Chinese drywall, according to a Bloomberg Government report. In
doing so, states are robbing troubled borrowers of assistance
and jeopardizing their housing recoveries in the process.  The motivation is understandable:  State finances  haven’t
fully recovered from the recession, which sapped tax receipts
and prompted steep cutbacks in personnel and services. States
face an estimated $68 billion gap in fiscal 2012, according to
the  National Association of State Budget Officers , and most of
them have to balance their budgets. The housing market’s modest
revival raises slender hopes that the foreclosure problem will
solve itself. But robbing Peter to pay Paul may further hobble
states.  General Funds  Arizona , a state with the highest foreclosure rate in the
U.S. and where almost 50 percent of borrowers remain underwater
in spite of rising demand for new homes, recently enacted  a law 
that allowed it to move $50 million of its $97.8 million
settlement share to the state’s general fund.  In  California , where almost 30 percent of borrowers have
negative equity in their homes, Governor  Jerry Brown  has
proposed using the $410 million the state received to service
its debt, along with other general-fund purposes.  Florida  has
already put 10 percent of its $334 million payment into its
general fund. Louisiana is directing almost $1 million of its
$21.7 million share for costs associated with the Chinese
drywall litigation, and  Missouri  will use its $40 million to
reinstate funding for state universities.  States are able to do this because of loose  language  in the
mortgage settlement, which said funds should be used for
foreclosure prevention “to the extent practicable.” U.S.
officials say such language is standard in settlement
agreements. Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan has asked officials in Arizona and other states to
reconsider diverting funds.  States should pay heed. The mortgage settlement provided
other housing relief, including payments to certain borrowers
who lost their homes, debt forgiveness and refinancing. But the
direct payments are a critical piece of the agreement and came
at a cost:  Attorneys general  from 49 states and the  District of
Columbia  released most claims on the banks in exchange for the
settlement, meaning there’s no going back to the kitty.  More important, the money can actually help prevent
foreclosures, which hurt everyone. Vacant homes languish,
driving down the value of neighboring real estate and putting
more homeowners at risk of losing their properties. Local
finances are also crimped as sales and property taxes suffer.
Property taxes, which finance schools and are rarely lowered,
are rising much slower than in the past. Such revenue, which
increased 19 percent from 2005 to 2008, has climbed just 8
percent since then and declined slightly from 2011 to 2012 if
inflation is taken into account, according to Bureau of Economic
Analysis  data .  Constructive Help  Research shows that the simple types of assistance this
money is intended to finance, such as counseling, have a big
payback. A recent study by the Department of Housing and Urban
Development  found  that, with a counselor’s help, 69 percent of
distressed borrowers were able to modify their mortgages, and 84
percent of those individuals were able to stay in their homes.
Most of the 824 homeowners surveyed said they had tried to
contact their lender after falling behind in payments but were
unsuccessful in negotiating better terms, suggesting that
counseling does bear fruit.  The housing crisis has wiped out $7 trillion in household
wealth since 2006. It will be a steep climb back for a nation
whose past recoveries have been powered by real estate. The
mortgage settlement, while not a panacea, offers a chance for
states to help repair some of the damage and prevent additional
pain. Using the money for anything other than housing-related
efforts won’t solve the governors’ fiscal shortfalls. It will
set back a sector’s recovery and hurt the states’ economies
along the way.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on U.S.  funding for Unesco ;
 Susan Antilla  on  prison sentences for white-collar felons ;
 Michael Kinsley  on the  corporate right to free speech ;  Ezra
Klein  on the  Republican-inspired tax increases in the
Republican-inspired health-care  law; Gordon Kerr on why
devaluing the pound would be a  form of default .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 