-- Sweden Leaves Rates on Hold as Tightening Plans Delayed
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-07-04T10:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/sweden-leaves-rates-on-hold-as-tightening-plans-delayed.html
Sweden’s Riksbank kept its  benchmark
interest rate  unchanged and signaled it will delay plans to
tighten monetary policy as the bank waits for firmer indications
that  Europe  is emerging from its debt crisis.  The repo rate was left at 1.5 percent after being cut twice
since December, the Stockholm-based central bank said in a
statement published on its website today. The decision was
predicted by 15 of the 20 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . The
rest forecast a cut to 1.25 percent. The bank said it is
revising “the repo-rate path downwards somewhat,” in the
statement.  “Following a bright start to the year, the unease in
Europe is now casting a shadow over the Swedish economy,” the
bank said in the statement. “Despite the unease, the Swedish
economy is still growing, albeit weakly. Inflation is low. The
repo rate needs to remain low,” it said.  Riksbank board members Per Jansson and Kerstin af Jochnick
said in May the bank is tracking developments in the euro area
more closely than those in  Sweden . The outcome of the currency
bloc’s debt crisis is “decisive” for Sweden and has “steered
discussions” at the central bank, Jansson said then. Sweden is
a European Union member, though it has not adopted the euro.  The Riksbank also said it expects the krona to strengthen
once the turmoil fueled by the crisis abates.  ‘Unease’  “The unease that has marked the financial markets has led
to major fluctuations on the foreign-exchange markets and the
krona has weakened since the monetary policy meeting in April,”
the bank said. “When the financial unease fades, it is expected
that Sweden’s relatively good economic growth and sound public
finances will lead to a gradual strengthening of the krona
again.”  The krona extended its advance versus the euro, reaching
the strongest level since December 2000. The currency
appreciated as much as 0.5 percent to 8.697 per euro and was at
8.7048 at 10:46 a.m. London time.  According to Stockholm-based SEB AB, policy makers are
signaling they’re unlikely to adjust monetary policy to respond
to currency swings.  The “Riksbank is one of few Group of 10 central banks
accepting a stronger currency,” as it targets a rate below 8.5
kronor to the euro next year, SEB said in a note. “Only levels
materially below 8.50” against the euro “would force a more
dovish Riksbank stance,” SEB said.  Euro Crisis  The Riksbank said its outlook was clouded by “considerable
uncertainty concerning economic developments” and warned the
“situation in the euro area is problematic and could worsen.”  In such an event, “the Riksbank will no doubt act
forcefully, primarily through increased liquidity measures,”
Anna Raman, a senior analyst at Nykredit A/S in Copenhagen, said
in a note. “But in case of evident signs of a severe economic
slowdown, the Riksbank will not hesitate to also cut its policy
rate substantially.”  Euro-area leaders struggled to avert a deepening of the
region’s debt crisis last week by easing the terms of  Spain ’s
bank bailout and moving closer to a fiscal and financial union.
The move sent Spanish and Italian bonds higher amid confidence
the crisis won’t spin out of control. About half of Sweden’s
economy comes from exports, 70 percent of which go to Europe.  ‘Protracted’  “The economic downturn in the euro area is expected to be
protracted,” the Riksbank said. “Several euro area countries
are facing considerable challenges. The work on rectifying the
problems is continuing but a lot of work remains before long-run
sustainable solutions have been implemented.”  Still, a number of Sweden’s “most important” trade
partners “are expected to keep growing, albeit at a slow
rate,” the bank said.  The overall economy of the 17-member euro area will
contract 0.3 percent this year, the European Commission said in
May.  Germany  and the U.K., two of Sweden’s biggest export
markets, will expand 0.7 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively,
according to the commission.  The Riksbank now expects its repo rate to be at 1.4 percent
in the fourth quarter, versus an April forecast for 1.5 percent.
The rate will average 1.6 percent in the third quarter next
year, versus a previous prediction for 1.8 percent. The
benchmark will be 2.4 percent in the third quarter of 2014 and
3.1 percent a year later, according to the bank.  GDP Outlook  The bank raised its economic forecast for Sweden for this
year to 0.6 percent growth from 0.4 percent, previously. The
economy will expand 1.7 percent in 2013, compared with an April
forecast for 1.9 percent, it said. Gross domestic product will
expand 2.8 percent in 2014, it estimates.  The largest Nordic  economy  will avoid a recession this
year as expansion slows to 0.7 percent from 3.9 percent in 2011,
the National Institute of  Economic Research  said on June 20.  Sweden’s low public debt level compared with most other
European countries gives the government room to maneuver should
the economy deteriorate further, NIER said. The  Finance Ministry 
predicts debt will fall to 37.7 percent of gross domestic
product this year. That compares with an average of 91.8 percent
in the euro area, the European Commission said on May 11.  Euro-area leaders agreed at their June 28-29 summit to drop
the preferred status of taxpayers over bondholders in emergency
loans for Spain’s troubled banks. The talks also cleared the way
for direct bank recapitalization using rescue funds and the
creation of a single financial supervisory authority as Europe
hones its crisis-fighting tools.  ECB Rates  The  European Central Bank  will probably cut its  main
interest rate  tomorrow for the first time since December,
bringing the benchmark to 0.75 percent, according to 46 of the
62 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg .  Traders and investors have increased bets that the
Riksbank will also cut rates over the next year and now see the
repo rate at 1.3 percent in 12 months, versus a 1.4 percent
forecast in a May survey, TNS Sifo Prospera said on June 13.
 Interest rate  futures show traders expect the Riksbank will
lower its rate to 1.16 percent in December.  Growth returned to the  Swedish economy  in the first quarter
after output contracted a quarterly 1 percent in the three
months through December. Swedish annual  retail sales 
unexpectedly grew at the fastest pace in more than a year in
May, rising 4.6 percent, as NIER predicted  unemployment  will
average 7.5 percent this year, unchanged from 2011. The jobless
rate was 6.2 percent in 2007.  Inflation Lag  “Swedish economic growth and the labor market have been
stronger than the Riksbank forecast and that normally weighs
heavily on their decisions,” Hallberg at Swedbank said.  Swedish  inflation  has trailed the central bank’s 2 percent
target every month this year after slowing for a third month to
1 percent in May. The data were followed by a survey indicating
 manufacturing  contracted for a second month in June.  Unemployment unexpectedly rose to 8.1 percent in May from
7.8 percent the previous month. That sent  consumer  and
 manufacturing confidence  lower in June after annual  industrial
production  fell 6.2 percent in April, marking the third
consecutive month of declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  