-- U.K. Stocks Are Little Changed Before ECB, BOE Meetings
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-07-04T15:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/u-k-stocks-decline-from-a-two-month-high.html
U.K. stocks  closed little changed,
after the benchmark FTSE 100 Index rallied to a two-month high
yesterday, as investors awaited the outcome of tomorrow’s
central-bank policy meetings.  Barclays paced banks lower as former Chief Executive
Officer  Bob Diamond  attended a Treasury Select Committee
hearing.  Man Group (EMG)  Plc slid 4.7 percent after the hedge-fund
manager reported a decrease in assets last week at its flagship
fund.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  fell 1.9 percent after the oil producer
suspended drilling at a well in  Kenya .  The FTSE 100 slid 3.26, less than 0.1 percent, to 5,684.47
at the close in London. The volume of shares changing hands on
the gauge was 50 percent below the 30-day average with the U.S.
closed for the Independence Day holiday. The broader FTSE All-
Share Index also slid less than 0.1 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index rallied 0.8 percent.  “The recent risk rally across global markets appears to be
alluring clients into booking some profits,” said Ishaq Siddiqi, a market strategist at ETX Capital in London. “Today’s
price-action is likely to continue until the  European Central
Bank  and  Bank of England  policy decisions tomorrow.”  The FTSE 100 has advanced 1.9 percent so far this week and
yesterday reached the highest since May 3 after measures of
manufacturing from  China  to the euro area topped economists’
forecasts and speculation grew that central banks will take
further measures to stimulate growth.  Stimulus Plans  The ECB is expected to lower its benchmark rate by 25 basis
points to a record low 0.75 percent, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 62 economists. Five predict a
cut of 50 basis points and 11 foresee no change.  In the U.K., the BOE will expand its quantitative easing
program by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion), while leaving its
benchmark rate unchanged at 0.5 percent, according to
economists.  Barclays slid 0.6 percent to 166 pence. The shares rallied
as much as 1.8 percent and fell as much as 2.1 percent as
Diamond, who resigned yesterday, faced questions from lawmakers
on how the bank failed to prevent the abuse of a benchmark used
to set interest payments on $500 trillion of securities from
mortgages to swaps.  Diamond today apologized for the “reprehensible” behavior
at the bank that led to a record fine of 290 million pounds last
week for rigging the London Interbank-Offered Rate, known as
Libor.  Barclays Probe  Barclays, which has lost a  fifth of its market value  in two
weeks, is one of at least 12 banks including Citigroup Inc.,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  are under investigation into Libor-setting
practices.  Lloyds lost 0.5 percent to 31.66 pence and HSBC, Europe’s
largest bank, declined 0.5 percent to 567.6 pence. RBS slid 0.9
percent to 214.5 pence.  ICAP Plc (IAP) , which is also being
investigated, dropped 1.1 percent to 331 pence.  Man Group tumbled 4.7 percent to 67.55 pence, extending its
retreat this week to 11 percent, after the world’s largest
publicly traded hedge-fund manager said the net asset value of
its Man AHL Diversified fund lost 2.5 percent last week.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. also reduced its dividend estimates
for Man Group and cut its price target for the shares by 55
percent to 45 pence, citing a “disappointing”  investment
performance  by AHL in the second quarter.  Tullow, Carillion  Tullow Oil declined 1.9 percent to 1,502 pence after the
oil producer suspended drilling of the Ngamia-1 well in Kenya at
2,340 meters, short of its previous target depth. Tullow will
move the rig to a second location in the country to drill the
Twiga-1 well.  Tullow and its Canadian partner Africa Oil Corp. announced
Kenya’s first oil discovery at the Ngamia-1 well in Block 10BB
in the Turkana region on March 26.  Carillion Plc (CLLN)  led construction-related companies lower,
falling 3.2 percent to 273.1 pence even as the builder of the
London Olympics media center said it was on track to meet full-
year earnings expectations.  Carillion said first-half revenue will be lower year-on-
year, as estimated, due a decline in U.K. construction revenue.
The shares had climbed 4.9 percent in the three days through
yesterday.  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/)  dropped 2.6 percent to 48 pence after
giving the first-half financial update. Britain’s second-largest
homebuilder by volume posted an 8 percent increase in U.K. house
sales and a 2.6 percentage-point increase in its operating
margin. The stock had climbed 8.8 percent in the previous three
sessions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  