-- U.K. Climate Expert Warns Korea Over Excess Permit Allocation
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-07-04T00:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/u-k-climate-expert-warns-korea-over-excess-permit-allocation.html
South  Korea  should avoid giving away
too many carbon permits as it starts a cap-and-trade system to
cut  greenhouse gases , a U.K. climate diplomat said.  A main lesson from the U.K. and  Europe , which runs the
world’s biggest emissions market, is “to prevent over-
allocation,” said Michael Watters, head of the climate change
section of the British  Embassy  in Seoul. The U.K. sent him to
Seoul two years ago to share lessons learned while developing
its climate policy and participating in the EU system.  “You need to fix the overall size of a cake before
dividing it up, otherwise you can end up with the cake getting
bigger and bigger,” Watters, 35, said in an interview “We had
problems in the first stage of the EU trading scheme because of
over-allocations.”  The cost of EU carbon allowances plunged to a record low of
7.87 euros ($9.80) this year after the bloc gave away too many
permits, failing to foresee falling demand because of the
recession and debt crisis.  South Korea  approved a cap-and-trade
system in May despite opposition from the Federation of Korean
Industries and the Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, the
nation’s top two business lobbies.  The market-based program requires companies exceeding their
emission quotas to buy permits from those that discharge less.
South Korea would follow  Australia , which started its carbon-
pricing system this week, and  China , which plans to begin
regional pilot programs next year, in using cap-and-trade as
tool for reducing emissions linked to greenhouse gases.  Visiting Europe  The U.K. Embassy helped arrange for members of South
Korea’s National Assembly’s Special Committee on Climate Change
and Green Growth to visit London and Brussels to learn more
about cap and trade, a Korean government official said. They
plan to bring in U.K. experts from government, industry and
academia this year, Watters said.  The Korean government has yet to announce compliance rules
for the bill, which calls for  emissions trading  to start in 2015.
The government may give away 95 percent of the permits companies
need for three to six years, according to the bill.  Watters forecast carbon markets in Korea, Australia and
other countries may be linked with Europe’s emissions-trading
system “in the not too distant future.”  “More linking makes emissions reductions cheaper,” he
said. “Linking the EU scheme with the Korean scheme might be
possible within the next 10 years or so.”  ‘Important Step’  Watters called the climate talks in Durban,  South Africa 
last year “a really important step forward” in the
international negotiations. It clarified that all nations are
working towards a new framework that applies to all countries,
ending the current policy of imposing mandatory goals on
developed nations and allowing voluntary targets for developing
nations such as China and India.  The new framework “must contain legally binding mitigation
obligations for all countries,” including  developing countries ,
he said. But the levels of commitments “will vary depending on
level of development and their capabilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  