-- U.K. Services Weaken More Than Forecast as Confidence Falls
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-04T08:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/u-k-services-weaken-more-than-forecast-as-confidence-falls-1-.html
U.K.  services growth  slowed more than
economists forecast in June and “fragile” demand from
customers undermined confidence.  A gauge of services activity based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  fell to 51.3, an eight-month low, from 53.3
in May, Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  said in a report in  London  today. The
median forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a reading of 52.9. A measure above 50 indicates expansion.  Reports by Markit this week showed  manufacturing  and
construction contracted in June, suggesting the U.K. may still
be mired in a recession as the euro-area crisis undermines
confidence. The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee will
probably expand its  quantitative-easing program  tomorrow,
according to a survey of economists.  The three industry surveys are “now collectively down
firmly into territory that has triggered action from the MPC in
the past,” said Markit chief economist  Chris Williamson .
Today’s report “probably cements the case for further
stimulus.”  Markit said there was a slowdown in new business at
services companies in June, companies cut prices and there was a
“modest” increase in employment. While  Europe ’s debt crisis
curtailed investment, “temporary factors” may also have played
a part in the slowdown in activity in June, Markit said, citing
the additional public holiday for the queen’s Diamond Jubilee at
the start of the month.  Euro-Area Slump  A separate report from Markit today showed euro-area
 services and manufacturing  output shrank for a fifth month in
June, adding to signs that the region’s economic contraction
deepened in the second quarter. A composite index for both
industries in the 17-nation euro area rose to 46.4 from 46 in
May, higher than an initial estimate published on June 21.  An index published by Markit this week showed U.K. factory
output shrank for a second month in June, while construction
contracted at the fastest rate in 2 1/2 years. The gauge of
manufacturing rose to 48.6 from 45.9 in May, while the measure
of building output fell to 48.2 from 54.4.  The  U.K. economy  shrank for a second consecutive quarter in
the three months through March. The  Office for National
Statistics  will publish the first estimate of second-quarter
gross domestic product data on July 25.  The data “may show negative U.K. GDP growth” in the three
months through June, British Chambers of Commerce chief
economist  David Kern  said yesterday.  The Bank of England will probably raise its target for
asset purchases by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375
billion pounds, according to the median estimate of 41
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Economists in a separate
poll forecast officials will leave the benchmark  interest rate 
at a record low of 0.5 percent. The bank will announce the
decision at noon in London tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  