-- U.S. Needs Wiggle Room to Escape Unesco Trap
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-04T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/u-s-needs-wiggle-room-to-escape-unesco-trap.html
The Church of the Nativity in the
Palestinian town of Bethlehem could use a few repairs, but is it
in peril? The United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization says so, having  declared  the church an
endangered World Heritage site last week.  Palestinians made hay arguing that  Israel ’s occupation of
the  West Bank  threatened the humble church, said to mark the
birthplace of Christ. A UN expert committee disagreed,
concluding it faced no danger. The U.S. objected to the
“endangered” designation, claiming it was a means to attack
Israel, but lost the 13-6 vote.  The episode offers a glimpse of the new  Unesco , where the
U.S. has diminished clout after having announced its intention
to stop funding the organization following Palestine’s admission
as a member last October. The U.S. purpose presumably was to
punish Unesco. Instead, other countries -- notably China and
Qatar -- have stepped in to fill the 22 percent  hole  in Unesco’s
$325 million annual budget.  And if the U.S. goes two years without paying dues, it will
be ousted from Unesco. Bad idea. Better that the U.S. resume its
funding and stay in the organization.  U nesco is no stranger to political  controversy , but it does
important work: promoting freedom of the press and expression,
providing literacy training, safeguarding cultural treasures,
and empowering women and girls through education. Moreover, a
continued financial boycott of the organization undermines
America’s professed commitment to multilateralism, which has
helped the U.S. to oppose Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi ,
pressure the Iranians on their nuclear program and isolate
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  The  cutoff  of U.S. funding to Unesco has its roots in a
 1994 law . It bans the government from supporting a UN affiliate
that grants membership as a state to any entity without the
actual attributes of one (internationally recognized borders,
say, or control over what happens within them). The law was
intended to prevent Palestinians from advancing toward statehood
outside of a negotiated settlement with the Israelis.  It’s a reasonable law, but it’s overly restrictive.
Administration officials need some wiggle room. Specifically,
they need Congress to add a waiver allowing them to override the
legislation when doing so is in the national interest.  Some in Congress may prefer to leave the law undiluted,
thinking that it will deter the Palestinians from seeking, and
members of other UN agencies from granting, membership for
 Palestine . But the legislation is having the opposite effect. It
puts the hammer in the wrong hands, perversely giving the
Palestinian leadership the power to force the U.S. out of any UN
organization in which they gain membership. Given the world
body’s sympathies -- the Unesco  vote  on Palestine’s membership
was 107 to 14 -- that’s no position to be in.  Why should Israel’s supporters in Congress push for a
waiver? It’s in Israel’s interest for the U.S. to have a strong
voice in Unesco and credibility with multilateral partners. And
compared with Israel’s own actions, the U.S. response to
Palestine’s Unesco admission was extreme. Israel suspended its
Unesco dues in 2012 but continues to fund certain projects,
including Holocaust education and a  scientific-research program 
in  Jordan . U.S. diplomats expect Israel to resume its full
contributions next year. The U.S. needs the flexibility to do
the same.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on states’  abuse of federal
foreclosure aid ;  Susan Antilla  on  prison sentences for white-
collar felons ;  Michael Kinsley  on the  corporate right to free
speech ;  Ezra Klein  on the  Republican-inspired tax increases in
the Republican-inspired health-care  law; Gordon Kerr on why
devaluing the pound would be a  form of default .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 