-- U.S. May Miss Small-Business Contract Goal for 12th Year in Row
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-07-04T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/u-s-may-miss-small-business-contract-goal-for-12th-year-in-row.html
The U.S. government missed its small-
business contracting goal in fiscal 2011 for at least the 11th
straight year and may be on its way to the 12th.  The U.S. has a target of awarding 23 percent of eligible
prime, or direct, contracts to small businesses. It awarded them
21.7 percent of more than $423 billion in such awards in the
fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, down from 22.7 percent the
previous year, according to data released by the  Small Business 
Administration yesterday.  Federal agencies have awarded 17.8 percent of about $212
billion in eligible contract dollars to small business so far in
fiscal 2012, according to the Small Business Dashboard, a
government-run website.  The SBA released its report on the government’s 2011
performance yesterday, three months before the 2012 fiscal year
ends, so it may be too late for agencies to substantially boost
awards to small businesses,  Michael Golden , who formerly led the
Government Accountability Office’s procurement law unit, said in
a phone interview.  “The question is whether agencies can change their
contract strategy within a 90-day period,” Golden, a
Washington-based partner for the  law firm  Pepper Hamilton LLP.
“For agencies that haven’t made it, I think they will try, but
it’ll be a challenge for them.”  Monthly contract spending generally almost doubles each
September from the previous month as contracting officers rush
to spend money before the end of the fiscal year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Need to Improve’  “Releasing the numbers at this point really highlights
where there are opportunities for improvement and really puts
the attention on the agencies,” John Shoraka, associate
administrator for government contracting at the SBA, said
yesterday in a phone call with reporters. “This highlights the
fact that we need to improve and highlights the agencies that
need to focus on that improvement.”  Shoraka said the timing of the report would have a “good
impact” on fourth-quarter activity, when spending tends to
surge.  “Releasing the scorecard showing that the government
missed its small business goal, yet again, this late in the
fiscal year, and on a day before a national holiday is
unfortunate,” D.J. Jordan, spokesman for the U.S. House
Committee on Small Business, said in an e-mail. “Their hope was
obviously that no one would pay attention to this embarrassing
news.”  Both Parties  Small companies face barriers as they compete with larger
rivals for  federal work , including budget cuts, in-sourcing and
the tapering off of stimulus contracts, Shoraka said.  The Pentagon, which represents more than two-thirds of all
prime contract revenue, has also missed its small-business goal
for 10 years.  The government’s shortfalls have spanned both Republican
and Democratic administrations. President  Barack Obama ’s Office
of Management and Budget told agencies in a February 2011 memo
that their underachievement deprives taxpayers and “takes away
opportunities for small businesses to create jobs and drive the
economy forward.”  “It is extremely disappointing that the federal government
has again failed to meet its small business contracting goals,”
U.S. Representative Sam Graves, a Missouri Republican who is
chairman of the House Committee on Small Business, said in an e-
mailed statement. “If the administration takes this priority
seriously, these goals are very achievable.”  Agency Grades  Each year, the SBA calculates scorecards that measure how
well the government and each federal agency did in awarding
contracts to small businesses, defined generally as those with
$7 million or less in annual revenue or fewer than 500 employees
in most industries.  The scorecards include total spending with small companies
and with specific groups, such as those owned by women, service-
disabled veterans and minorities.  The reports, which include prime contract dollars and
subcontracts to small business, also feature a letter grade from
A to F. Agencies that received an A+ met at least 120 percent of
their goals, while those given an F achieved 70 percent or less
of their goals, according to the SBA.  The  Department of Energy , the second-largest government
buyer, received an F grade. The department missed its goal of 6
percent last year, awarding $1.3 billion, or 5.3 percent, to
small businesses.  Women-Owned Businesses  The  Department of Health  and Human Services, the third-
largest buyer, received an A, exceeding its goal of 19.5 percent
and awarding $4.5 billion, or 24 percent, to small firms. The
Defense Department earned a B.  The federal government received a B grade overall. It
missed goals for women-owned small firms, service-disabled
veterans and businesses based in areas that historically have
had high unemployment and low incomes.  Even as 2011 marked the first year of a set-aside program
for small businesses owned by women, contracts to the firms
declined last year for the first time in more than a decade.  Women-owned small businesses received $16.8 billion, or 4
percent, of eligible contract dollars, according to the SBA. The
government set a goal in 1994 of awarding at least 5 percent of
the total value of eligible contracts to women-owned businesses.
It has never met it.  Contracts to black-owned firms dropped 8 percent to $7.12
billion from fiscal 2010 to 2011. Awards to Hispanic-owned
businesses decreased 7 percent to $7.89 billion. Contracts to
the two minority groups fell at a faster pace than all
contracts, which dipped 1 percent as the U.S. government slowed
spending to help reduce the federal deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  