-- U.S. Probes UN’s WIPO Over Projects With Sanctioned Iran
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-07-04T08:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/u-s-probes-un-s-wipo-over-projects-with-sanctioned-iran.html
The U.S. is investigating the United
Nations World Intellectual Property Organization’s activities in
 Iran , which is under UN sanctions, and calling for greater
transparency and accountability at the institution.  “The State Department first became aware of a WIPO
development project in Iran in early May, while conducting a
review of all WIPO projects in countries under UN Security
Council sanctions,” Pooja Jhunjhunwala, a spokeswoman for the
department in  Washington , said by e-mail yesterday. “We have
received several projects documents and are reviewing them.”  WIPO, a 185-member body that promotes the use and
development of intellectual property, sent a shipment of
information-technology equipment to Iran that was received by
August 2010, according to documents seen by Bloomberg News and
supplied by a WIPO employee who declined to be identified as the
material is confidential.  Geneva-based WIPO has a  mandate from members  to help
 developing countries  modernize their patent offices. Iran and
North Korea, both subjects of international trade embargoes
including Security Council resolutions, were both beneficiaries
of “standard information-technology equipment” after meeting
WIPO’s needs-assessment and validation procedures, according to
Edward Kwakwa, legal counsel at the organization.  “These programs did not include the type of technology or
training prohibited by the UN Security Council resolutions for
the said countries,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  UN Sanctions  Iran has been the subject of four rounds of UN sanctions
aimed at curbing the development of nuclear weapons and
including the  supply or sale of equipment and technology  that
would aid the Persian Gulf nation’s atomic work. The European
Union and the U.S. have also imposed their own trade
restrictions, including oil embargoes.  While WIPO isn’t intentionally assisting the Islamic
republic’s nuclear or energy industries, the supply of computer
equipment risks breaching a U.S. economic embargo and may
violate UN and EU prohibitions on dual-use technologies, because
computers can be used for military purposes as well as civilian
ones, according to Matthew Parish, a lawyer with Holman Fenwick
Willan LLP in Geneva.  “This is politically very embarrassing,” he said today.
“Businesses and other international organizations are
increasingly avoiding all contact with Iran, and it seems
astonishing that WIPO does not feel obliged to follow the same
principles.”  North Korea  WIPO has also had a technology-supply project with  North
Korea  to support intellectual-property databases for inventors’
certificates, patents and non-patent literature, according to
internal documents. Technical assistance included desktop
computers, servers, printers and firewalls, the documents show.  The U.S. held discussions with WIPO Director General
Francis Gurry to modify the approval process for development
projects and will work with other countries to urge Gurry to let
external parties investigate past projects in places including
Iran and North Korea, according to the State Department.  “In light of concerns expressed recently, WIPO will in the
future systematically refer relevant cases of technical
assistance to countries under a UN sanctions regime to the UN
Sanctions Committee,” Kwakwa said.  WIPO’s activities in sanctioned countries also attracted
the attention of members of the  House of Representatives 
questioning Teresa Stanek Rea, deputy director of the U.S.
Patent and Trade Office, at a June 27  hearing  of the Committee
on the Judiciary.  “I have closely been following reports that WIPO officials
have been transferring computers, firewalls and other
technological devices to the governments of North Korea and
Iran,” Representative Howard Berman, the top Democrat on the
House Committee on  Foreign Affairs , told the committee.
“Needless to say we find this highly distressing, not only
because it potentially violates a slew of UN Security Council
resolutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  