-- Lufthansa CEO Says Intercontinental Takeovers Inconceivable
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-07-04T15:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/lufthansa-ceo-says-intercontinental-takeovers-inconceivable-1-.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  Chief Executive
Officer Christoph Franz said consolidation in the  airline
industry  will be focused within Europe and the U.S. in the short
term, while intercontinental takeovers are “not conceivable”.  The slowing of “liberalization” in the industry makes
major intercontinental deals unlikely, Franz said in Planet
magazine, which is published by Lufthansa’s cargo unit.  “I do not see a near-term perspective for transatlantic
majority takeovers, because the dynamics of liberalization in
recent years have declined very clearly,” Franz said, adding
that Asian takeovers are also unimaginable. “In the long term,
there will certainly be global perspectives.”  Under Franz’s predecessor  Wolfgang Mayrhuber , Cologne,
Germany-based Lufthansa acquired Austrian Airlines and Swiss
International Airlines, as well as stakes in  JetBlue Airways
Corp. (JBLU)  and Brussels Airlines NV. In May, the carrier said it may
consider making a bid for Portugal’s TAP SGPS SA. Outgoing Chief
Financial Officer Stephan Gemkow said last week he saw few
attractive acquisition targets in Europe.  “The path towards consolidation via acquisitions is
increasingly being replaced by a market adjustment via airline
bankruptcies,” Franz said. “This trend will -- to the
disappointment of the employees affected -- continue and reduce
the variety of airlines in Europe.”  Europe’s second-biggest airline still doesn’t rule out
acquisitions in the region, Franz said separately today in a
speech in Zurich. “We have to be open to taking part in the
consolidation process in  Europe ,” he said.  -- With assistance from Stefanie Knoll in Zurich. Editors:
Robert Valpuesta, David Risser  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  