-- Tullow to Accelerate Kenya Exploration After First Discovery
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-07-04T12:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/tullow-to-accelerate-kenya-exploration-after-first-oil-discovery.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the London-based
explorer with the most licenses in  Africa , plans to accelerate
drilling in  Kenya  after making the East African nation’s first
discovery earlier this year.  Tullow will bring in two additional rigs next year, Chief
Financial Officer Ian Springett said today in an interview.
Alongside  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI) , Tullow is deploying two rigs in
Kenya and one in  Ethiopia  this year to confirm reserves in the
new African oil province after the Ngamia-1 well discovered more
than 100 meters (330 feet) of light oil.  “It’s absolutely a fantastic start as it exceeded our
expectations and there’s a lot more drilling to come,”
Springett said. “It’s conventional oil, it’s very similar to
 Uganda  but a much bigger first discovery.”  Tullow forecast Kenya has the potential to exceed Uganda,
where together with Total SA and Cnooc Ltd. it plans to invest
more than $10 billion to unlock an estimated 2.5 billion barrels
of oil. The U.K. company’s Kenyan exploration acreage may hold
as much as 10 billion barrels of oil resources, Tullow’s
Exploration Director Angus McCoss said on a conference call with
analysts.  “It’s a high-risk upside with a lot of exploration yet to
do but certainly the size of the prize after Ngamia is
potentially bigger,” he said.  Well Suspended  The company stopped the Ngamia-1 well for testing later
this year. Africa Oil today said that the well encountered an
additional 43 meters of “potential oil.”  The explorer said a potential export pipeline from Uganda
could cross Kenya to bring oil to a port on the Indian Ocean
coast.  “The export pipeline is the key discussion point now,”
Springett said. “At the same time the discoveries in Kenya add
both the extra likelihood and extra benefit in terms of even
more oil being exported from that part of  East Africa .”  Tullow’s first-half output averaged 77,400 barrels of oil
equivalent a day. Production is expected to exceed 90,000
barrels a day by the end of the year, according to a statement
today.  “Clearly, the Kenya play has been a major first-half
positive,” said Stuart Joyner, head of oil and gas analysis at
Investec Securities Ltd. in  London .  The company has been applying acid-stimulation methods,
which are designed to boost production, to its Jubilee field off
 Ghana  to almost double output to 120,000 barrels a day next
year. It will spend less than the forecast $400 million on the
field work because it’s a “lot cheaper solution” than re-
drilling the wells, Springett said.  “We don’t expect that we have to do any more
recompletion,” the CFO said. “Jubilee production will be
motoring ahead” in the second half.  “Reservoir acidization is a common solution at other
fields,”  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in London, wrote in an e-mailed report. “Good news for costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  