-- Turkey Yields Sink to Lowest in 9 Months as Economy Contracts
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-07-04T14:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/turkish-yields-drop-after-revised-1q-contraction-of-0-4-percent.html
Turkish bond  yields  dropped for a
seventh day to the lowest level in nine months after a surprise
first-quarter contraction in the economy spurred expectations of
an  interest rate  cut.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt declined 14 basis points
to 8.17 percent at the close in Istanbul, the weakest level
since Sept. 21. The lira depreciated for the first time in four
days, down 0.6 percent to 1.8070 per dollar, paring this year’s
gain to 4.6 percent.  Turkey ’s economy contracted 0.4 percent, the statistics
office said yesterday, correcting data that showed 0.2 percent
growth. The decline is the first since gross domestic product
shrunk 5.5 percent in the first quarter of 2009 and compares
with a 0.4 percent expansion in the last three months of 2011.
The figure, originally reported on July 2, was corrected after
the  bond market  closed yesterday.  “The downward revision in GDP increased rate cut
expectations,” Onur Bayol, a fixed-income and currency trader
at  Denizbank AS (DENIZ) , said in e-mailed comments. “Foreign investors
in particular are buying bonds of all maturities,” Batol added.  The statistics office also corrected annual seasonal and
workday-adjusted growth for the quarter to 2.4 percent from 2.3
percent, according to the statement yesterday. Unadjusted first-
quarter annual growth remained at 3.2 percent, the agency said
in its statement.  Turkey’s capacity utilization slid to 74.6 percent in June
from 76.7 percent a year earlier, according to a central bank
report June 25, pointing to increasing output gap in the
economy. Its inflation rate advanced to 8.9 percent in June from
8.3 percent in May, beating the median estimate of 9.5 percent
from nine economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Rate Cut  “If growth performance continues to surprise, the central
bank will see itself under great political pressure to ease,”
 Luis Costa , an emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
 London , said in e-mailed comments today.  “The problem is how foreign exchange will react to a
possible easing cycle now, I don’t think the lira would take
that very well,” Costa said.  Turkey may also revise down unadjusted annual economic
growth of 3.2 percent to 2.8 percent when it announces the
second-quarter GDP on Sept. 10, Burcu Unuvar, an economist at Is
Yatirim, Turkey’s biggest broker by trading volume, told
Bloomberg after a news conference in Istanbul today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  