-- Murray Says He’s in Good Position to End U.K. Wimbledon Drought
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-04T23:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/murray-says-he-s-in-good-position-to-end-u-k-wimbledon-drought.html
Andy Murray  is back in the Wimbledon
semifinals, and this time he’s not facing  Rafael Nadal , the 11-
time Grand Slam champion who ended his past two title bids at
the All England Club.  Murray yesterday overcame another Spaniard, the No. 7 seed
 David Ferrer , in four sets in a three hour, 52-minute contest
featuring long baseline exchanges on Centre Court. He’ll face
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France for a place in the final.  “I’m in a good position,” said Murray, who leads Tsonga
5-1 in  career meetings . “Whether it’s the best chance or not,
I’m not sure. But I’ve been in this position a few times now and
want to push on.”  Nadal was knocked out of the tournament in the second round
by 100th-ranked Lukas Rosol of the  Czech Republic . The second-
seeded Nadal and the fourth-seeded Murray had been drawn in the
same half. Nadal beat Murray in the 2010 and 2011 semifinals.  Today at Wimbledon, No. 8 seed Angelique Kerber of Germany
plays third-seeded  Agnieszka Radwanska  of Poland in a women’s
semifinal. Four-time singles champion  Serena Williams  of the
U.S. takes on reigning Australian Open title holder  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus.  The men’s semifinals are scheduled for tomorrow.  “Jo’s a tough opponent,” Murray said about facing Tsonga,
who beat Germany’s Philipp Kohlschreiber 7-6 (7-5), 4-6, 7-6
(7-3), 6-2 yesterday. “He served I think very well so far this
tournament. It’s a very different match to playing against Rafa,
but he’s one of the best grass-court players in the world,
that’s for sure.”  Another Semifinal  It will be Tsonga’s second straight Wimbledon semifinal. He
beat six-time champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland in last
year’s quarterfinals, coming back from two sets to love down.  Federer yesterday defeated Russia’s  Mikhail Youzhny  in
straight sets to set up his first grass-court encounter with
defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic of Serbia in the other
semifinal. Djokovic beat Germany’s  Florian Mayer , also in
straight sets.  Murray said he’s been trying to visualize what it would be
like to become the first British man since  Fred Perry  in 1936 to
win the title.  “I spent some time here during the year sitting on the
court when there was no one else there just thinking what it was
like,” he said after his 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (8-6), 6-4, 7-6 (7-4)
win over Ferrer. “It’s become more and more special to me the
more years I’ve played. I’ve started to understand how important
it is to tennis.”  Tsonga, the No. 5 seed, said he would rather have played
Ferrer than Murray for a spot in his first Wimbledon final.  ‘Tough for Me’  “Andy’s one of the players I don’t like to play because
he’s returning really well and he can play some really good
passing shots,” Tsonga told reporters. “He’s really quick.
He’s all the time on the ball, so it’s tough for me.”  As happened in previous years, “Murray Mania” has
increased the further he’s advanced. U.K. media have been
reporting daily on anything from Murray’s practice sessions, to
his coach  Ivan Lendl  and his dog, Maggie May.  “Subconsciously I’m probably extremely stressed out right
now, but I try not to feel it,” Murray said when asked how he
deals with carrying national expectations. “Then, when the
tournament’s done, there’s normally a pretty big release of
that. I just don’t want to be on the court for a few weeks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  