-- Vietnam’s Coffee Premium Drops as London Futures Advance
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-04T08:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/vietnam-s-coffee-premium-drops-as-london-futures-advance.html
Buyers of coffee from  Vietnam , the
world’s biggest grower of the robusta variety, are paying a
smaller premium for their beans after futures prices in London
climbed, according to trading company NC Group Ltd.  Vietnamese coffee for immediate shipment was at a premium
of $5 to $10 a metric ton to the price of the September contract
on the NYSE Liffe exchange in London, the trader said in a
report e-mailed today. That compares with $20 a ton on July 2.
Robusta coffee for September delivery advanced 2.7 percent over
the past week in London.  The “differential level eased back $10 to $15 due to the
recent increase in the terminal price,” Nguyen Chi Cuong, chief
executive officer at the company, which has a trading office in
 Ho Chi Minh City , Vietnam, wrote in the report.  Differentials refer to a premium or discount to obtain
physical coffee in relation to the futures price.  Robusta futures climbed as arabica coffee advanced on
speculation rains that are delaying the harvest in  Brazil , the
world’s biggest coffee producer, will damage the beans, lowering
their quality. Arabica coffee rose 8.9 percent in the past week
on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  “London coffee has almost become a forgotten uncle over
the last few sessions as New York takes all the glory,” London-
based futures and options broker Sucden Financial Ltd. said in a
daily report e-mailed yesterday. “Gradually, robusta prices
improved, almost reluctantly in New York’s shadow.”  Arabica coffee is grown mainly in  Latin America  and is
favored for specialty drinks such as those made by  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  Robusta beans, harvested mainly in Asia and parts of
 Africa , are used for instant drinks and espresso.  NC Group was established in 2004 and trades natural rubber
and coffee. The company sells 80,000 to 150,000 bags of coffee a
year. Cuong was previously a coffee trader in Vietnam with Noble
Group Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 