-- Vivendi Credit Rating May Be Downgraded on Strategy Review
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-07-04T16:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/vivendi-may-face-s-p-debt-rating-downgrade-on-strategy-review.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s debt ratings may be cut
by one level within three months depending on the outcome of its
strategy review following the ouster of Chief Executive Officer
 Jean-Bernard Levy ,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  S&P put Vivendi’s BBB  credit rating , the second-lowest
investment grade, under negative watch. “The group could decide
to reshuffle its business portfolio, which might negatively
affect our assessment of Vivendi’s business risk,” S&P said
today in a statement.  Levy left last week after seven years, following a clash
with the board over strategy. The company has hired a headhunter
and started identifying external candidates, people familiar
with the matter said yesterday, as Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou,
who now oversees strategy, bids to restore investor confidence.
Vivendi had 12.5 billion euros ($15.7 billion) in net debt at
the end of March.  “Bondholders have been worried since April by the lack of
visibility on Vivendi’s perimeter and on group strategy,” said
Malle Ba, a credit analyst at Aurel BGC in Paris. “The price of
Vivendi bonds already reflects concerns that the market and
 ratings agencies  have.”  Possible Breakup  The cost of insuring Vivendi bonds using credit-default
swaps jumped 10.5 basis points, or 5.6 percent, to 197 basis
points, the biggest intraday increase since May 14, according to
Bloomberg prices. The insurance cost reached a record high of
251 basis points on May 18. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Vivendi is “committed to its current credit rating” and
its “policy remains unchanged,” the company said in an e-mail.  The shares rose 0.4 percent to 14.93 euros at the close of
trading in Paris, paring the drop to 8.8 percent this year.  Vivendi, owner of the largest music and video games
companies, was criticized by investors when its share price
slumped to a nine-year low in April. The Paris-based company has
been considering a change in its structure, with scenarios
ranging from asset sales to a breakup of the company, people
with knowledge of the matter have said.  Ratings agencies have added pressure on the company.  Fitch
Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service both said last week that
Vivendi’s debt ratings may be threatened unless the company
shows it can reduce its liabilities.  Activision Blizzard  Vivendi’s current debt is at about the same level it
reached a decade ago. An acquisition binge by former CEO Jean-
Marie Messier, ousted in 2002, boosted net debt to nearly 30
billion euros in 2001, bringing the company close to bankruptcy.  As it considers options, Vivendi has decided to seek a
buyer for its $8.1 billion stake in video-game company
Activision Blizzard Inc., one person with knowledge of the
situation has said.  Fourtou has concerns about Vivendi’s telecommunications
businesses, which he believes require too much investment to be
successful and lack scale, people familiar with the matter have
said. A spinoff of pay-TV unit  Canal Plus  is among the options,
they have said. Other Vivendi units include  Universal Music
Group  and telecommunications providers in Morocco and  Brazil .  French Wireless  Following Levy’s ouster, attention has focused on cost-
cutting plans at French phone unit SFR. Stephane Roussel,
Vivendi’s personnel chief and new CEO of SFR, met with unions
yesterday to detail how he will cut jobs and reduce costs. The
unit plans to reduce operating expenses by about 350 million
euros ($439 million) in 2013, on top of the 450 million euros
budgeted for this year, people with knowledge of the matter have
said.  “We are still unclear about decisions that could be taken
on SFR, Vivendi’s telecommunications subsidiary, to soften the
impact of heightened pricing competition following the recent
entry of a fourth competitor in  France ’s mobile telephony
market,” S&P said.  SFR is Vivendi’s top contributor to earnings, accounting
for 41 percent of first-quarter sales and 34 percent of earnings
before interest, taxes and amortization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  