-- VW to Pay $5.6 Billion for Rest of Porsche
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-07-05T14:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/volkswagen-to-purchase-remaining-porsche-stake-for-5-6-billion.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  agreed to buy the 50.1
percent stake in Porsche SE’s automotive business that it
doesn’t already own for 4.46 billion euros ($5.6 billion),
ending a seven-year takeover saga that divided two of the most
powerful families in  Germany .  VW was able to proceed with the transaction two years
earlier than planned after reaching an agreement with German tax
authorities, it said late yesterday. The cash deal is based on
an equity value of 3.88 billion euros and also includes what the
Porsche holding company would have received in dividend payments
and half of the forecast synergies from the combination.  The agreement means Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW can now
fully fold the Porsche automaking business into its stable of 12
brands, which range from Audi luxury sedans to Ducati
motorbikes. The purchase helps VW Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  in his quest to pass Toyota Motor Corp. and  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and become the world’s largest automaker by 2018.  “It’s very positive for VW as they get 50 percent of an
asset they value at 26 billion euros on their own books for 4.46
billion euros,” said Erich Hauser, a Credit Suisse analyst in
 London . “If I was a Porsche shareholder, I’d feel slightly
shortchanged though.”  VW  gained  as much as 10.15 euros, or 7.9 percent, to 138.15
euros and was up 4.9 percent as of 4:32 p.m. in  Frankfurt 
trading. The shares have climbed 16 percent this year, valuing
the carmaker at 60.5 billion euros. The  Porsche SE (PAH3)  holding
company’s stock fell as much as 3.1 percent and was down 2.2
percent to 41.07 euros, giving it a market value of 12.6 billion
euros.  Failed Takeover  The two companies agreed to combine in 2009 after
Stuttgart-based Porsche racked up more than 10 billion euros of
debt in an unsuccessful attempt to take over  Europe’s largest
carmaker . VW said it expects Porsche’s automaking business,
which it values at more than 20 billion euros, to be fully
consolidated in its accounts from Aug. 1.  “Porsche and Volkswagen belong together,” Winterkorn said
at a press conference today at VW headquarters in Wolfsburg.
“By working with one another we will raise the company to a new
level. We are on the way to being number one.”  Porsche’s  earnings contribution  for this year will be
mainly offset by the purchase price, VW said. By revaluing its
existing shares in Porsche, VW expects to book a non-cash gain
of more than 9 billion euros and predicts a liquidity drain on
its own automaking division of about 7 billion euros.  The agreement will result in 320 million euros in
additional synergies due to the earlier completion. VW and
Porsche might exceed annual cost reductions of about 700 million
euros going forward, Hans Dieter Poetsch, chief financial
officer for both companies, said today on a call with analysts.  Lower Tax Bill  Volkswagen is paying the purchase price, plus transferring
one share to Porsche, in a move that allows the  carmaker  to
classify the merger as a restructuring rather than a takeover.
Doing so means VW avoids a possible tax bill on the purchase of
about 1 billion euros that it might have had to pay by
completing the merger before 2014. The agreement with tax
authorities has been criticized by some German politicians.  VW will now pay “well over” 100 million euros in
transaction taxes on this deal, Poetsch told reporters today.  The agreement simplifies the cross-shareholdings between
the companies by leaving the Porsche SE holding company as the
largest stakeholder in VW, with 50.7 percent of the common
stock, and at the same time folding the Porsche automaking
operations fully into the VW group. The holding company plans to
use proceeds of about 2.4 billion euros from the sale to invest
in materials for the  auto industry , real estate and energy
trading.  Porsche Lawsuits  The two companies had been working on a full-blown merger
since 2009, when Porsche failed in its attempt to take over VW,
which would have eliminated the holding company and given
Porsche shareholders a direct interest in VW. That goal was
scrapped in September because of the lawsuits in the U.S. and
Germany, claiming the carmaker secretly piled up VW shares.  After Porsche announced in 2008 that it controlled 74.1
percent of VW, partly through options, and was seeking an
eventual takeover, the shares surged as short sellers raced to
buy shares borrowed in a bet that VW would fall. Porsche has
repeatedly denied any wrongdoing.  “We have to reckon that the situation with legal
proceedings will persist for a while,” Poetsch, who is also the
Porsche holding company’s CFO, said today. “There is no
contractual ground for a full merger today. The transaction
structure makes sure that the risks for the lawsuits are clearly
on the Porsche SE side.”  Family Feud  Porsche’s attempt starting in 2005 to take over Volkswagen,
which makes more cars in a week than the sports-car maker does
in a year, split the controlling family.  Ferdinand Piech , VW’s
chairman, crossed his cousin Wolfgang Porsche to thwart the
plan, which ultimately fell apart after Porsche’s debt rose in
the midst of the financial crisis.  “VW and Porsche will be able to better cooperate in the
future, devise a common strategy and reap synergies,” Lower
Saxony Prime Minister David McAllister said today. Lower Saxony
is the second-largest VW shareholder with a 20 percent stake.  Piech, 75, the former VW CEO who was elected to a third
term as chairman in April, has since solidified control of
Volkswagen. His wife, Ursula, took a seat on the company’s
supervisory board earlier this year. In April, VW agreed to
acquire Italian motorcycle maker Ducati, fulfilling Piech’s
vision of a company with a range spanning two-wheelers to 50-ton
trucks. VW also controls truck makers  MAN SE (MAN)  and  Scania AB. (SCVB)   “To have the Porsche clan as owners and the anchor
shareholder is good for Volkswagen and for Germany,” said
Christoph Stuermer, an IHS Automotive analyst in Frankfurt.
“This has changed the cultural heart of the company. Volkswagen
has become substantially stronger and long-term oriented.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chad Thomas  in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  