-- Myners Says He Hopes Paul Tucker Will Be Next BOE Governor
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2012-07-04T09:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/myners-says-he-hopes-paul-tucker-will-be-next-boe-governor-1-.html
Paul Myners , a Labour Party lawmaker
in Parliament’s upper House of Lords, said he hopes Paul Tucker
will be appointed the next Bank of England governor, countering
pressure on his bid for the job from the Libor-rigging furor.  Tucker, a front runner to replace central bank Governor
Mervyn King when he retires in June, has been drawn into the
scandal over his 2008 call with former  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief
Executive Officer Bob Diamond. Diamond will face questions on
his communications with the central bank when he testifies in
front of lawmakers today.  “Paul Tucker is an outstanding candidate,” Myners said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television today. “The evidence will
show that the Diamond record of the conversation is partial, not
complete, and I’m hoping that  Paul Tucker  will be the next
governor of the Bank of England.”  Myners was minister for the City, London’s financial
district, under the last administration, and said today the
questions over Libor have ended the bids of several potential
candidates.  “We’ve seen a couple of candidates fall away off the list
this week,” Myners said. “John Varley, former chief executive
of Barlcays, had been talked about as a possible governor. Well,
I think he’s off the list.”  Tucker leads the race at bookmaker  Paddy Power Plc (PAP) , with
odds of 4/5. That means a 1-pound ($1.57) winning bet would
yield an 80 pence return plus the original stake. Former  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman  Stephen Green ’s odds are at 7/1 and Varley
stands at 16/1.  Myners also called on the Conservative Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne to clarify the process for choosing the
next governor. Government officials have signalled the formal
process won’t start until the fall.  “We also need to make sure the process of appointing the
next governor is very open and transparent, and not done
secretively, as the chancellor endeavors to do at the moment,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  