-- Ypsomed Eyes Taiwan’s Bionime to Gain Blood-Sugar Strips
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-04T13:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-04/ypsomed-eyes-taiwan-s-bionime-to-gain-blood-sugar-strips.html
Ypsomed Holding AG (YPSN) , a maker of
devices for diabetes patients, is interested in buying  Bionime
Corp. (4737)  of  Taiwan  to gain control of the blood-sugar strips that
are the Swiss company’s main profit driver, said Simon Michel,
Ypsomed’s head of marketing.  Ypsomed has sold Bionime’s strips in  Europe  since 2008, and
buying the Taiwanese company would give it the ability to sell
the products in all 60 countries in which it operates, he said
in an interview at the company’s headquarters in Burgdorf, near
Bern. Ypsomed  holds  8.7 percent of Bionime, which has a market
value of NT$3.6 billion ($120 million), according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  An acquisition would allow Ypsomed to expand in one of the
fastest-growing disease areas. Rising obesity rates globally are
spurring a surge in  Type 2 diabetes . About 346 million people
globally have the illness, and the number of deaths may double
from 2005 to 2030, the  World Health Organization  says.  Buying the rest of Bionime is “certainly something we look
at,” said Michel, who is the son of Ypsomed Chief Executive
Officer Willy Michel. Still, while Bionime shares are cheap,
it’s “the wrong time to raise capital” because of a slump in
Ypsomed’s stock price, and because the company has a policy of
not borrowing from banks, he said.  The two companies aren’t in talks over an acquisition, he
said. Marina Lai, a spokeswoman for Bionime, said she wasn’t
aware of Ypsomed’s interest in acquiring the company.  Share Drop  Bionime rose 0.5 percent to close at NT$81.90 in Taipei
trading. Shares of the Taichung-based company have dropped 28
percent from a record close of NT$113 on Sept. 16. Bionime sells
for 19.6 times profit for the past year, compared with an
average price-earnings ratio of 26.1 over the past five years.
The company has recorded average sales growth of 50 percent for
the past five years, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Ypsomed rose 0.9 percent to 51.50 francs at 3 p.m. in
Zurich, giving the company a market value of 651.5 million
francs ($680.9 million). The stock peaked at more than 210
francs in 2006.  Ypsomed, founded by Michel’s father, who is also chairman
and the  main shareholder , is reinventing itself after the
company’s main customer, Sanofi, decided in 2006 to make its own
insulin pens. Sales slumped to 248.6 million Swiss francs in the
year ended March 31 from a peak of 310 million francs six years
ago.  The company has pursued a strategy of selling the pumps,
glucose monitors, infusion sets and other equipment that
diabetics need to inject the hormone that keeps their blood
sugar in check.  ‘Not Acceptable’  “The market hasn’t appreciated the time for the
transition,” Michel said. “They expected we could handle it in
three years, and it took five, and this was not acceptable to
the market.”  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Roche Holding AG , Abbott Laboratories and Johnson
& Johnson control 85 percent of the $12 billion market for
blood-glucose strips, the disposable cards for inserting in
glucose monitors to measure the level of sugar in a person’s
blood, Michel said. While Ypsomed sells monitors, the strips are
the biggest contributor to profit, he said.  Michel expects the company to return to profit growth in
the second half of the year, he said.  Type 2 diabetes, largely the result of excess body weight
and lack of exercise, accounts for 90 percent of cases,
according to the WHO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  