-- Ladbrokes Rises to Five-Year High on Playtech Deal: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-03-11T10:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/ladbrokes-rises-to-five-year-high-on-playtech-deal-london-mover.html
Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  rose to its highest
in five years after the U.K. gambling operator said it expanded
a partnership for online and mobile software with  Playtech Ltd. (PTEC) ,
which ended a joint venture with  William Hill Plc (WMH)  this month.  Ladbrokes  gained  as much as 8.3 percent, its biggest
intraday advance since April 2009, to 243.9 pence, the highest
price in London trading since July 2008. Playtech rose as much
as 3.9 percent, almost erasing the decline since it said March 1
that William Hill exercised an option to take full control of
gambling venture William Hill Online.  “Following the success of William Hill Online and given
the problems that Ladbrokes have encountered in its own online
business, this will be seen as a transaction which could
significantly improve the Ladbrokes online prospects,” Jeffrey Harwood, an analyst at Oriel with a hold rating on Ladbrokes,
said in a note today.  Ladbrokes and rivals including William Hill are increasing
their online offerings as more customers use the internet and
mobile phones to place bets. Playtech will provide expertise as
Ladbrokes creates a new e-commerce and digital marketing
services operation, Ladbrokes said today in a statement. It will
also provide more software, including games for a new “Vegas”
tab on Ladbrokes.com.  “The deal augments perfectly the organic development in
Ladbrokes,” Chief Executive Officer Richard Glynn said in a
phone interview. “We had to build the foundations. This deal
will accelerate the pace of growth.”  Contingent on Success  Payments to Playtech for marketing services will be based
on a “success fee only basis” and will be made incrementally
based on increases in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization at the digital unit, Harrow,
England-based Ladbrokes said. The agreement runs through 2017.  William Hill is acquiring Playtech’s 29 percent stake in
William Hill Online for 424 million pounds ($632 million) in
order to take full control of its digital unit. Playtech Chief
Executive Officer Mor Weizer has said he was “delighted” with
the valuation.  Ladbrokes was up 6.7 percent at 9:55 a.m. as more than 2.7
million  shares  traded, exceeding the daily average over the past
three months. Playtech was 3.3 percent higher at 569.5 pence.
William Hill rose 0.5 percent to 426.5 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 