-- Advent Software Says New Bank Rules Driving European Expansion
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-03-11T07:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/advent-software-says-new-bank-rules-driving-european-expansion.html
Advent Software Inc. (ADVS)  said new
banking regulations in Europe will help the U.S. software
developer increase the region’s share of its sales to 30
percent in three to five years.  Advent, based in San Francisco, is planning to expand in
Europe, which accounted for about 17 percent of its revenue last
year, by targeting clients in countries such as the U.K.,
Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Luxembourg and Switzerland,
Hakan Valberg, head of Advent’s European,  Middle East  and Asia
operations, said in an interview in Stockholm. The U.S.
accounted for the remaining 83 percent of sales.   European regulators are introducing stricter capital rules
for banks and forcing lenders to improve transparency. Advent
counts banks such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and UBS AG as clients, as well as hedge-funds asset managers,
central banks and wealth funds.  “The opportunity for us is big and is becoming bigger
because of the regulators and as the market needs to become more
strict on compliance,” Valberg said. “We look at the need for
automation and cost savings, the regulation, the need for  wealth
management  -- all of these are fantastic growth drivers.”  Advent’s fourth-quarter net income rose 23 percent to $8
million on sales of $92 million, the company said on Feb. 4. It
expects revenue this quarter of between $91 million to $93
million. Advent’s  shares , which slipped 12 percent in 2012,
have climbed 25 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kim McLaughlin at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net  