-- Maersk Line to Dump Panama Canal for Suez as Ships Get Bigger
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-03-11T20:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/maersk-line-to-dump-panama-canal-for-suez-as-ships-get-bigger.html
Maersk Line , the world’s biggest
container shipping company, will stop using the  Panama  Canal to
transport goods from  Asia  to the U.S. East Coast as bigger ships
help the company move them profitably through  Suez Canal .  Maersk Line will send through Suez Canal a vessel that can
carry as many as 9,000 20-foot boxes at a time, instead of using
two 4,500-box-vessels through Panama Canal, Soeren Skou, chief
executive officer, said in  Singapore  yesterday. The last sailing
through Panama will be on April 7 and the first service through
Suez will be a week later, the company said in an e-mail.  “The economics are much, much better via the Suez Canal
simply because you have half the number of ships,” Skou said.
“One of the reasons for why this is happening now is that the
cost for passing through the Panama Canal has gone up. At the
end of the day, it comes down to cost.”  Shipping companies, including Maersk Line and  Neptune
Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL) , have cut costs, reduced speed of their fleet
and sold some vessels to contend with freight rates that are
below break-even levels. Copenhagen, Denmark-based Maersk Line,
which is taking delivery in June of an 18,000 TEU vessel -- the
world’s biggest when it enters service -- has said pressure on
charges will remain this year.  The  company  finds it more cost-effective to send larger
ships through the U.S., even if it meant the ships need to sail
longer, Skou said.  “The practice of using bigger ships through Suez Canal
rather than Panama Canal will likely be followed by other
carriers,” said Bonnie Chan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. “This gives shipping companies a bit more
flexibility in managing capacity.”  Suez Vs Panama  The number of  container ships  crossing the Suez Canal fell
12 percent to 6,332 in 2012, according to the waterway’s
authority. A total of 17,225 ships of all types traveled the
link between the  Mediterranean Sea  and the  Gulf of Suez  last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Panama Canal was used by 3,331 container ships last
year, up from 3,253 in 2011, according to data on the canal
authority’s website. There were 12,862 total crossings.  The distance from  China , the manufacturing hub for
companies such as Apple Inc., to the U.S. east coast via the
Suez Canal is about 4 percent to 5 percent more on average, Skou
said. For example, the distance from  Hong Kong  to Charleston is
about 12,000 miles via Suez and 11,000 miles via Panama. From
Singapore, it’s actually shorter via Suez than through Panama,
the company said in the e-mail.  ‘Deeply Concerned’  Fees for ships to go through the Panama Canal have tripled
in the past five years to $450,000 per passage for a vessel
carrying 4,500 containers, Skou said. In February, the Suez
Canal Authority announced canal toll increases that would be
effective from May, according to the Asian Shipowners’ Forum.  The group “is deeply concerned” about the potential
impacts of this move, it said in a statement earlier this month.  A $5.25 billion expansion of Panama Canal, the waterway
handling 5 percent of global trade, will open by June 2015, six
months later than originally planned. The canal connects the
Atlantic and Pacific oceans.  Six years after the Panama Canal began the expansion to
capture shipments of Asian-made goods to the U.S. East Coast,
the flow of liquefied natural gas in the opposite direction
promises to be a better bet.  Shipments of the fuel, along with rising commodity and
energy cargoes between the U.S.,  Latin America  and Asia, are
likely to provide the largest sources of demand growth when the
project is complete in June 2015, according to Administrator
Jorge Luis Quijano.  Shipping containerized goods, which generate most business
for the 50-mile link, has yet to return to the same level as
2007, two years before the global economy had its worst
recession since World War II.  Whether Maersk will use the Panama Canal after the
expansion will depend on the economics, Skou said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  