-- AIG Shareholders Can Sue as Group in Greenberg Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-11T20:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/aig-shareholders-can-sue-as-group-in-greenberg-case.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
shareholders can sue the U.S. as a group in a lawsuit brought by
former Chief Executive Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg over
losses caused by the government takeover of the insurer, a judge
ruled, saying the case may affect tens of thousands of people.  U.S. Claims Judge Thomas Wheeler today granted a request by
Greenberg’s Starr International Co. to certify two classes of
AIG investors in the suit. The judge also appointed  David Boies 
of Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP as lead counsel for the groups.  “Considering the estimation of plaintiff’s counsel that
the putative plaintiffs may number more than tens of thousands
of geographically dispersed persons, class certification is by
far the most efficient method of adjudicating these claims,”
Wheeler said in his ruling.  Starr International Co. sued the government in 2011 in the
U.S. Court of Federal Claims in Washington, calling the public
assumption of almost 80 percent of AIG stock in September 2008 a
seizure of property in violation of the Constitution’s Fifth
Amendment right to just compensation. The lawsuit seeks at least
$25 billion in damages.  One class involves those holding shares on Sept. 22, 2008,
when a credit agreement giving the U.S. 79.9 percent equity
interest in AIG was imposed. The second class comprises people
who owned AIG stock on June 30, 2009, who were denied a vote
when the company conducted a reverse stock split, according to
the ruling.  In January, New York-based AIG’s board opted against
joining the lawsuit, saying it was unlikely to succeed and
risked harming the insurer’s reputation after its bailout by the
government.  The case is Starr International Co. v. U.S., 1:11-cv-00779,
U.S. Court of Federal Claims ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 