-- AirAsia Buys Zest Air Stake to Boost Philippines Travel Bet
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-03-11T09:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/airasia-boosts-bet-on-philippines-with-zest-air-stake-purchase.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , Southeast Asia’s
biggest budget carrier, bought a 49 percent stake in Philippine
rival  Zest Airways Inc. , increasing its bet on a surge in travel
in the country.  The Sepang, Malaysia-based carrier’s  Philippines  venture
AirAsia Inc. agreed to acquire the holding and all of Zest’s
affiliate Asiawide Airways from Alfredo Yao, vice chairman of
Export & Industry Bank Inc., according to a joint statement from
the carriers today. Yao will get a 15 percent stake in closely
held AirAsia Inc., Chief Executive Officer Marianne Hontiveros
said in a briefing today in Manila.  “The Philippine market is very small compared to what it
should be,”  Tony Fernandes , the group chief executive of
AirAsia, told reporters today in Manila. “This strategic
partnership is about growing the market.”  AirAsia’s expansion in the Philippines comes a week after
it won approval to form a unit in  India . The Malaysian carrier
formed the Philippine venture in December 2010 to gain access to
routes within the country as rivals  Cebu Air Inc. (CEB)  and Philippine
Airlines Inc. expand their fleets and boost flights in the
region.  The AirAsia Philippines unit is a venture with former
 Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (TEL)  Chairman Antonio Cojuangco and two investors. Cojuangco and the two other
investors will now own 15 percent each of the company, matching
Yao’s 15 percent stake.  AirAsia Inc. shareholders will also add funds for working
capital, according to the statement, which didn’t elaborate.  The Philippine operations will get a share of the 100
Airbus SAS A320s AirAsia ordered last year, Fernandes said at
the briefing today.  The Philippines is targeting 5.5 million international
visitors this year from 4.3 million in 2012, Tourism Secretary
Ramon Jimenez said Feb. 12. President  Benigno Aquino  has raised
the domestic tourism target to 56.1 million annually by 2016,
after the original goal of 35.5 million was breached last year,
when the number of local tourists climbed to 40.7 million.  Zest Air operates out of the Ninoy Aquino International
Airport in Manila, which comprises the bulk of the inbound
traffic to the Philippines. AirAsia has the Clark economic zone
in Pampanga province as its hub.  The “potential is huge” in terms of flying to Japan,
Korea and China, once the Philippines’ safety standards improve,
Fernandes said. The Southeast Asian nation’s Category 2 rating
from the  Federal Aviation Administration , which means it doesn’t
meet international regulations, has limited the carrier’s
expansion, he said.  AirAsia fell 0.4 percent to 2.81 ringgit as of 4:35 p.m. in
Kuala Lumpur trading, paring its gain this year to 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in  Manila  at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  