-- Malawi Arrests Six Former Officials Over Coup Conspiracy
-- B y   F r a n k   J o m o   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-03-11T11:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/malawi-arrests-six-former-officials-over-coup-conspiracy.html
Malawian police arrested at least
six former government officials and ministers for allegedly
conspiring to install the military after the death last year of
President Bingu wa Mutharika.  Rhoda Manjolo, a police spokeswoman in Malawi’s
administrative capital, Lilongwe, today confirmed reports by
 Capital FM Radio  of the arrests. She declined to say what
charges would be laid.  The arrests of the so-called Midnight Six follow the
January publication of a 90-page  report  by a commission of
inquiry into the April 5 death of Mutharika after he suffered a
heart attack. A delay in appointing his successor, Vice
President Joyce Banda, sparked the probe.  Blantyre-based Capital FM said three former Cabinet
ministers, including former Information Minister Patricia Kaliati, were among six officials from Mutharika’s  Democratic
Progressive Party  who were detained. The Malawi Times  reported 
that Mutharika’s brother Peter handed himself in to police in
Blantyre, the commercial capital, today after a warrant was
issued for his arrest.  The commission of inquiry said the DPP officials considered
blocking Banda’s appointment. The military refused to take
power, Blantyre-based Zodiak Radio said today, citing the
report.  The night of Mutharika’s death, the officials held a
midnight press conference leading to a delay in Banda’s
appointment. Banda was expelled from the DPP in 2011 after
refusing to endorse Peter Mutharika as vice president candidate
for elections scheduled for 2014. She subsequently formed the
 People’s Party , along with several defectors from the DPP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  