-- Lamouche Resigns From STMicroelectronics, Ericsson Venture
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-03-11T10:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/lamouche-resigns-from-stmicroelectronics-ericsson-chip-venture.html
ST-Ericsson, the semiconductor
venture between  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  and Ericsson AB, said
Chief Executive Officer Didier Lamouche resigned as the
shareholders seek to exit the unprofitable business.  Lamouche will step down as president and CEO at the
wireless chip venture at the end of this month to pursue other
opportunities, ST-Ericsson said today, without giving details.
The 53-year-old Frenchman also resigned from Geneva-based
STMicroelectronics, the company said in a separate statement.  The former STMicroelectronics chief operating officer was
appointed in November 2011 as ST-Ericsson’s third CEO in as many
years, and was put in charge of reviewing its strategy. ST-
Ericsson hasn’t made money since its formation in 2009 as newer
smartphone and tablet chips haven’t been able to make up for a
decline in sales of older products. The owners are now seeking
to pull out of the venture by the third quarter.  “The CEO leaving helps pave the way for action to happen
at ST-Ericsson,” said Hannu Rauhala, a Pohjola Bank Oyj analyst
in Helsinki. “A Chinese company may be interested in the
venture to help build their own chip business for their own
phones or tablets. Buying ST-Ericsson would be an easy way to do
it.”  Alexis Breton, an STMicroelectronics spokesman in Paris,
declined to comment beyond the company’s press release.  “Ericsson is still exploring all options and both parent
companies are eager to find a solution,” said Karin Hallstan, a
spokeswoman at Stockholm-based Ericsson.  STMicroelectronics  fell  1.3 percent to 6.09 euros at 11:34
a.m. in Paris. Ericsson advanced 1.4 percent to 82.30 kronor on
the Stockholm exchange.  Shutdown Looming?  Ericsson recorded an expense of 8 billion kronor ($1.2
billion) for writing off the value of the venture. On Dec. 20,
Ericsson said it’s exploring all options for its half stake and
didn’t rule out closing down the unit.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is
advising STMicroelectronics on its strategy.  The Geneva-based venture has also suffered because of less
demand from handset customers such as  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and BlackBerry.
To reduce costs, Lamouche unveiled plans to eliminate 1,700 jobs
last year and transfer the development of some of the more
advanced processors to STMicroelectronics.  “Didier Lamouche came into ST-Ericsson when the company
was in a very challenging situation and has been instrumental in
bringing the company to the point where it is more focused on
strategy execution, a much lower breakeven point and positive
momentum where the new LTE modem-based products are ready for
market introduction this year,” Ericsson CEO  Hans Vestberg  said
in today’s statement.  Scaling Down  Lamouche said a year ago that he wants to cut some of the
venture’s 44 research sites to reduce expenses. Its biggest
sites are in Lund,  Sweden , and Grenoble,  France . The venture has
about 5,000 employees, according to a 2012 company  document .  STMicroelectronics, which is 27.5 percent owned by the
French and Italian governments, may face political hurdles as it
moves forward with job cuts. In France, Socialist President
 Francois Hollande  and Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  have
pushed back against companies scaling down. Montebourg in
October hosted STMicroelectronics Chairman  Didier Lombard  at
Bercy, France, to discuss strategy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  