-- Anadarko’s Jim Hackett to Attend Harvard Divinity School
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-03-11T21:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/anadarko-s-jim-hackett-to-attend-harvard-divinity-school.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  Executive
Chairman Jim Hackett plans to attend Harvard Divinity School
following his retirement from the $41.8 billion oil and natural
gas company he led for almost 10 years.  Hackett, 59, wants to become better prepared to write,
speak and teach about faith and leadership, John Christiansen, a
spokesman for The Woodlands, Texas-based company, said in an e-
mail today. The former chairman of the Dallas Federal Reserve
board, has spent his career working for energy companies
including Devon Energy Corp., Duke Energy Corp. and Amoco Oil
Co.  Hackett turned his CEO duties over last year to Al Walker,
who will also become chairman in May. Hackett will retire from
Anadarko in June, after leading it through more than $21 billion
in acquisitions and an oil spill at BP Plc’s Macondo well, in
which the company owned a 25 percent stake.  Pursuing faith and leadership “has been a long-held
interest of Jim’s and one of the key reasons he is retiring from
Anadarko,” Christiansen said today.  Hackett has a strong Catholic faith and studied comparative
religion in high school, he said in a 2010 interview. He holds a
master’s degree in business administration from Harvard
University and a bachelor of science from the University of
 Illinois , according to the company’s website. He and his wife
Maureen have four children.  Church Donation  A “substantial” donation from the Hacketts several years
ago helped to make possible an expanded rectory and parish
office facility at Houston’s  Saint Anne Catholic Community , Jay
Walsh, a priest at the church, said in a phone interview today.
He declined to give the exact amount from the couple, who attend
services at the church.  Hackett is on the board of trustees for Rice University and
has served on the board of the  Houston Grand Opera .  Harvard Divinity School, established in 1816, was the
second professional institution founded at Harvard, after its
medical school. The school’s graduates include Ralph Waldo
Emerson and Horatio Alger, according to the website.  Tom Chappell, president and co-founder of Tom’s of Maine
Inc., has a master’s degree from the divinity school, said
Jonathan Beasley, a school spokesman.  The divinity school, with an average student age of 26,
enrolled 339 people in the past academic year, with
approximately 30 religious affiliations, according to its
website. The school awards masters and doctoral degrees in
divinity and theological studies.  Transforming Anadarko  Anadarko didn’t specify whether Hackett would be seeking a
degree at the school.  Hackett took over as CEO in December 2003, helping to
transform it from a company with missed production targets to
one known for projects off the coast of  Africa , in the Gulf of
Mexico and onshore U.S. Anadarko is the largest U.S. independent
oil and gas producer by market value behind ConocoPhillips.
Independent producers don’t own refineries or a chemical unit.  His tenure included the acquisitions of Kerr-McGee Corp.
and Western Gas Resources Inc., which were first announced in
2006. Hackett also led the company through the 2010 Gulf oil
spill. Anadarko eventually paid BP $4 billion as part of a
settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  