-- Angola’s Middle Class Clamors for Housing Amid Oil Boom
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-03-12T14:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/angola-s-middle-class-clamors-for-housing-amid-oil-boom.html
Guilhermina Simoes, a manager at
Banco Bic SA in  Angola , sat on a stool in the midday heat with a
knapsack as she planned to camp overnight and beat the Monday
morning crowd to buy a new apartment.  “I’m not leaving until my application is submitted,” said
Simoes, a 30-year-old mother of three and a graduate of the
country’s Agostinho Neto University. “It’s not a question of
choosing where to live, it’s a question of opportunity. There’s
nothing else.”  Simoes is among middle class Angolans willing to line up
for days to find new homes to escape their rundown neighborhoods
in Luanda, the capital of Africa’s second-biggest oil producer
after  Nigeria . Thousands of people wait for 1,200 application
spots a day at Kilamba, a new Chinese-built city of 5,400
hectares (13,300 acres), while other sites at Cacuaco, Capari,
Kilometer 44 and Zango are also filling up.  Angola, where a 27-year civil war ended in 2002, is
rebuilding with the help of Chinese loans backed by oil
production of more than 1.7 million barrels a day from offshore
fields operated by companies such as  Total SA (FP)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   The government’s decision on Feb. 5 to cut the prices of
bigger apartments to a maximum of $190,000 from $200,000 and
smaller ones to $70,000 from $125,000 sparked a flood of
applications. Before that about 30,000 units in five suburbs of
Luanda, home to more than five million people, stood empty for
more than a year because Angolans couldn’t afford them.  Building Challenge  The government paid $3.54 billion for Beijing-based  Citic
Construction Co. Ltd . to build 115 apartment blocks in the first
900-hectare phase of Kilamba, 20 kilometers (12 miles) south of
Luanda.  “Eleven years after the end of Angola’s civil war, we are
seeing the beginnings of an emerging middle class in Luanda,”
Lucy Corkin, a sovereign risk analyst at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said March 7 in an e-mail. “The challenge is that
Angola’s social and physical infrastructure is currently not yet
properly equipped to deal with their demands in terms of goods
and services.”  Luanda is plagued by power outages several times a day and
almost constant traffic jams around dusty and garbage-strewn
slums. The nation is trying to build up agriculture to reduce
imports and feed a country that was the world’s fourth-largest
coffee producer before independence in 1975.  Economic Growth  Before coming to Kilamba on March 3, Simoes spent a week
gathering the necessary documents, such as her tax-payer number,
national ID and social security card. She also needed a letter
from her employer proving she earns $1,500 a month to qualify
for a $600 per month rent-to-own plan to buy an $80,000 three-
bedroom apartment.  Angola is the fifth-biggest diamond producer by value, and
its per capita income of $5,681 ranks seventh in sub-Saharan
Africa, ahead of countries such as Nigeria and  Kenya , according
to the  International Monetary Fund . The  United Nations  said in
2011 that 54 percent of its people still live on less than $1.25
a day.  “With Angola’s booming oil economy, a growing middle class
is seeking to make gains, through property, consumption and
investments,”  Alex Vines , head of the Africa Program at  Chatham
House  in  London , said in an e-mail.  Angola forecasts 7.1 percent economic growth this year
after 7.4 percent last year and an average expansion of 9.2
percent over the past five years, according to government budget
documents. The country depends on oil for approximately 40
percent of its total output and 70 percent of government
revenue, according to the IMF.  Benefit Expectations  “Though small as a percentage of the general population,
Angola now has an emergent, increasingly articulate middle class
expecting the benefits of peace and oil prosperity to flow to
them,” Ricardo Soares de Oliveira, a lecturer in comparative
politics at Oxford University, said by e-mail.  Luanda is  Africa ’s most expensive city for expatriates to
live in and the second-costliest in the world, according to
Mercer’s annual cost of living  survey .  It cost $15,000 a month to rent a four-bedroom executive
house in the city’s Miramar and Ingombata areas last year,
according to London-based real estate broker  Knight Frank LLP .
In the Nigerian capital, Abuja, and Lagos, the main commercial
hub, a prime property went for an average $10,000 a month.  Rent for an unfurnished, two bedroom apartment in Luanda
was $6,500 a month, according to Mercer. That compares with
$4,424 in London, $4,500 in  New York  and $4,848 in  Tokyo .  Ghetto Life  While Ferraris and Range Rovers increasingly appear on the
roads in Luanda, where a hamburger costs $20, the most expensive
of anywhere surveyed by Mercer, millions of residents still live
in tin-roof slums on dirt tracks with open sewers and no running
water.  “I want to stop living in my neighborhood in central
Luanda because it’s a like a ghetto,” said Nelson Dias, a 38-
year-old computer engineer with Empresa Interbancaria de
Servicos SA, who’s also seeking an apartment at Kilamba. “This
place is organized, it’s a real city.”  Traveling south from Luanda on a new highway, Kilamba’s
apartment blocks rise from the countryside foliage, each
neighborhood a distinct color, such as blue, green and yellow.
The pristine roads, sidewalks and parkland inside are also like
almost nothing else in the country.  “I like living here because it’s comfortable and it’s a
good place for children with lots of space to play,” said
Claudia Patricia, 30, a four-month resident of Kilamba with her
husband and two children. “It’s clean and quiet.”  Election Promise  Delta Imobiliaria Sociedade de Promocao, Gestao e Mediacao
SA , which oversees the apartment sales, is a private real estate
company formed in Dec. 2007 with government funds.  During the 2008 legislative election campaign, President
Jose Eduardo dos Santos promised to build one million houses
over four years.  “More than 70 percent of Angolan families still do not
have a decent house,” he said then.  Simoes had her application for a three-bedroom apartment
accepted March 4, and she expects an answer within two weeks. If
it’s approved, she has a month to make her first payment.  “Thank God I managed to submit my apartment application,”
she said. “It was too much suffering, but at the end of the day
it paid off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Johannesburg at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  