-- Hanmi Financial Drops After Sale Process Said to Stall
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-03-11T20:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/hanmi-financial-drops-after-sale-process-said-to-have-stalled.html
Hanmi Financial Corp. (HAFC)  shares fell
the most in more than a year after the lender’s talks with
rivals about a sale were said to have stalled because of
disagreements over price and management.  The shares dropped 6.3 percent to $15.64 at the close in
New York, the most since November 2011. Hanmi, which caters to
Korean-Americans, had drawn interest from  Wilshire Bancorp Inc. (WIBC) 
and  BBCN Bancorp Inc. (BBCN) , said people familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be named because the process is private.  Wilshire and BBCN are both based in  Los Angeles , as is
Hanmi, and target Korean-American customers. Discussions between
Hanmi and both banks broke down because they couldn’t agree on
how much Hanmi is worth and who would run the bank, said one of
the people. In addition, some Hanmi board members are reluctant
to sell, the person said.  Before today, Hanmi’s shares had risen more than 9 percent
since Jan. 9, when  Bloomberg News  reported that the bank had
chosen DelMorgan & Co. to advise on a possible sale.  Jason Booth , a spokesman for Hanmi at Sitrick and Co., and
Angie Yang, a spokeswoman for BBCN, declined to comment last
week. Rob Delgado, co-founder and chairman of DelMorgan, and
Alex Ko, Wilshire’s chief financial officer, didn’t respond to
messages seeking comment.  Hanmi is still working with DelMorgan to explore options,
such as buying other banks, remaining independent or considering
offers from other suitors, including revised offers from
Wilshire or BBCN, one person said.  Hanmi had about $2.9 billion in assets and 27 branches at
the end of last year. BBCN, with $5.8 billion in assets, is the
largest Korean-American-focused bank, according to SNL
Financial, a bank-research firm in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Wilshire is the third-largest with assets of $2.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Alnwick in  New York  at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  