-- ARA CEO Plans to Double Assets by Boosting Property Funds
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-03-12T10:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/ara-to-double-assets-by-boosting-property-funds-southeast-asia.html
ARA Asset Management Ltd. (ARA) , a
manager of real estate trusts partly owned by billionaire Li Ka-
shing, wants to double assets under management over five years
as its private funds buy more properties.  ARA, which manages about S$22.1 billion ($17.7 billion) of
assets through real estate investment trusts and funds, plans to
expand with acquisitions and enhancing existing properties,
Chief Executive Officer John Lim said in an interview yesterday.
Its real estate funds, which make up less than a third of assets
managed by the Singapore-based company, are expected to increase
to half in five years, he said.  With six REITs listed in Singapore, Hong Kong and  Malaysia ,
ARA now wants to focus on expanding its private property funds
after attracting the largest U.S. pension investors. The stock
rose 2.5 percent to S$1.85 at the close in  Singapore , the
biggest gain in five weeks. That extended the year’s increase to
14 percent, more than twice the 5 percent advance in the  index 
tracking the city’s REITs.  “ Capital markets  will continue to grow but I think there’s
more potential for us on the private markets side,” Lim said in
Singapore. “If we continue to prove to the market that we can
increase the assets under management, then the share price will
continue to grow.”  Its funds, which have invested in properties from an empty
mall in  China  to a Singapore convention center, will focus on
the retail and office sectors, Ng Beng Tiong, CEO of ARA’s funds
unit, said in the same interview.  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers,
the largest U.S. pension fund, and Teacher Retirement System of
 Texas  have invested in the funds, Lim said. Japanese and Korean
funds are potential sources of capital, he said.  Ready Money  “You’re looking at a market full of liquidity,” Lim said.
“Money is ready, it’s about how well you’re going to manage
it.”  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s biggest manager of real
estate private-equity funds, is seeking to raise more than $2
billion for its first property pool focused on Asia, a person
with knowledge of the effort said in December. Sydney-based
 Goodman Group , the second-biggest industrial property manager,
said last month it plans to spend A$500 million ($512 million)
on acquisitions.  The property funds “are absolutely looking around in this
region and they’re very busy in raising funds,” said Ada Choi,
Asia Director at CBRE Group Inc. in  Hong Kong . “Still, sourcing
capital remains difficult, and in terms of new funds being
formed, it’s taking longer to close their funds.”  Dynasty REIT  In October, ARA canceled an initial public offering of
Dynasty Real Estate Investment Trust, backed by commercial real
estate in China, amid sluggish demand for new equity. The IPO,
which had sought to raise as much as 5.4 billion  yuan  ($868
million), is still being considered, Lim said.  The assets for Dynasty REIT are held by ARA’s property
funds, Lim said, adding that the biggest concern is China’s
taxes. Lim owns 33 percent of ARA while Li’s  Cheung Kong
Holdings Ltd. (1)  holds 13.9 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Hong Kong developer had offered ARA’s REITs the
first right to buy some of its properties.  ARA is also focusing on expanding its existing trusts
including  Cache Logistics Trust (CACHE)  and Fortune REIT. These plans
may include buying other REITs, Mark Chu, its director of
business development, said in the interview.  REITs from Singapore and  Japan  were the most active last
year, with investments reaching $8.9 billion, or three quarters
of total purchases by Asian property trusts, according to CBRE.
Yields fell to 5.1 percent in the second half from 5.8 percent
in the previous six months, the property brokerage said.  Noise, Color  “Launching new REITs is good, it creates a bit of noise
and adds color, but actually I would prefer to grow our current
REITs,” Lim said. “Growing our AUM from our current REITs is
healthier for us and creates economies of scale. Launching a new
REIT means I need to have a new CEO, new team, new board, and
you’ve got to grow from a low base again.”  Singapore REITs had an average total return of 7.8 percent
this year, the highest in  Asia  after Japan and Taiwan, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lim expects stock prices of the city’s REITs to rise by
about 20 percent to 30 percent this year, as the spread between
their dividends and the Singapore government’s  10-year bonds 
narrow. The bonds yielded 1.57 percent today, while the
Singapore REIT index traded with a 4.7 percent yield, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A 200 basis point spread would be a reasonable spread,”
Lim said, citing averages for markets including the U.S., U.K.
and  Australia . “There is a market disconnect.” A percentage
point is 100 basis points.  ARA plans to expand into new markets like Japan, Australia
and  India , as well as Southeast Asian countries including
Indonesia, Vietnam and Thailand. It may also expand its
logistics assets.  “There’s so much liquidity coming to Asia,” Lim said.
“We want to capture part of that money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  