-- Mauritius MPC Leaves Key Rate Unchanged as Inflation Seen Steady
-- B y   C h r i s t i n a   V i l b r i n
-- 2013-03-11T14:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/mauritius-mpc-leaves-key-rate-unchanged-as-inflation-seen-steady.html
Mauritius’s Monetary Policy
Committee left its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a
fourth consecutive meeting as inflation is expected to remain
within the central bank’s target range.  The panel, led by Governor Rundheersing Bheenick, left the
rate at 4.9 percent, according to a  statement  published on the
Port Louis-based institution’s website today after its first
Monetary Policy Committee meeting this year. The decision is in
line with a  Bloomberg survey  in which four out of six economists
forecast no change.  “There is no need to raise interest rates at this stage
given that inflation is under control,” said Yousouf Ismael, an
economist at St. Aubin Group, a Mauritian company with interests
in the country’s’ sugar and tourism industries.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.6 percent last month from 3.7
percent in January, Statistics Mauritius said on March 6. A Bank
of Mauritius survey in February found that 54 percent of
respondents expect inflation to remain below 4.5 percent by
June. The central bank targets inflation at 4 percent to 6
percent.  Mauritius’s economy is forecast to grow 3.7 percent this
year, compared with an estimated 3.3 percent in 2012, helped by
increased output in its information-technology and financial-
services industries, the International Monetary Fund said in
January. The government also expects the anticipated arrival of
1 million tourist to the Indian Ocean island nation this year to
boost the economy.  The rupee traded 0.3 percent weaker at 31 per dollar by
6.01 p.m. in Port Louis. It has weakened 1.5 percent this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today’s MPC meeting had been delayed from March 4 after its
board was constituted. Its two new members are Jeffrey Henkel
from Harvard University and Hemraz Oopuddhye Jankee, former
chief economist of Bank of Mauritius.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christina Vilbrin in Port Louis via Nairobi at   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 