-- Cricket Australia Backs Test Bans as Pattinson Takes Punishment
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-12T07:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/australia-exclude-watson-3-more-from-india-test-herald-reports.html
Cricket  Australia  backed the
decision by national team management to stand down four players
for this week’s third Test against India for disciplinary
reasons as one of the quartet said he accepted his punishment.  Vice-captain Shane Watson, fast bowlers James Pattinson and
Mitchell Johnson, and batsman Usman Khawaja were dropped
yesterday for the match in Mohali after failing to deliver
feedback coach Mickey Arthur said he asked all players to
provide after Australia went 2-0 down in the four-match contest.  Pat Howard, Cricket Australia’s executive manager of team
performance, told reporters today that the governing body fully
supported the punishment, which he said was the culmination of
issues with players’ attitudes over a period of time.  “It’s a high-performance culture we are after and they’ve
made a pretty big stance on what the minimum standard is,”
Howard said at a televised news conference in Brisbane. “It is
a strong statement. You can only get your last chance so many
times. This was the straw that broke the camel’s back.”  While former players including ex-Australia captain Allan Border have described the punishment as over the top, current
skipper Michael Clarke said the action, which has been derided
in the U.K. media with Australia scheduled to play back-to-back
Ashes series against  England  this year, reflected a decline in
the culture and behavior of the team.  “There have been a number of issues on this tour where I
don’t think we have been hitting our standards,” Clarke said in
comments distributed by Cricket Australia. “It’s no coincidence
we have lost the first two Test matches quite convincingly so we
have to turn that around, we have to lift our standards. We
can’t accept mediocrity here.”  Innings Defeat  Australia lost by an innings and 135 runs in Hyderabad last
week, becoming the first team in 136 years of elite Tests to
lose by an innings after declaring when batting first. India
would regain the Border-Gavaskar trophy by avoiding defeat in
either of the remaining two matches following a 4-0 sweep in
Australia in 2011-12.  Following the second Test, Arthur said each player was
given five days to outline how their individual performances and
those of the team could be improved.  “After Hyderabad we were really hurting,” Arthur, a South
African who was hired as Australia’s first overseas coach in
2011, said at a news conference yesterday. “I wanted three
points from each of them: technically, mentally and team as to
how we were going to get back over the next couple of games, how
we were going to get ourselves back into the series. Four
players did not comply with that.”  Taking Responsibility  Pattinson, who has been Australia’s best bowler on his
first tour of  India  with eight wickets at 23.62 apiece, said he
should have completed the task by the deadline.  “It’s disappointing but I know personally and I know the
three others have really taken responsibility for their
actions,” Pattinson, 22, said in comments distributed by
Cricket Australia. “This is a kick in the bum to make you
really realize what we’ve got and what we really want, and that
is to get to No. 1.”  Watson, 31, was granted leave from the team following his
axing because of the impending birth of his first child, Cricket
Australia said. The allrounder, a two-time winner of the
country’s top individual cricket honor named for Border,
described the punishment as “very harsh” and said he was
considering his playing future.  “I am going to spend the next few weeks with my family and
weigh up my options,” Watson was cited as saying by the Age
newspaper. “I am at a stage where I have to weigh up my future
with what I want to do with my cricket in general.”  Watson, playing as a specialist batsman, averaged 19.25
from his four innings in the series with a highest score of 28.
Johnson and Khawaja are yet to play in the Test series.  Skeleton Squad  The disciplinary action may leave Australia, ranked the No.
3 Test team by the International Cricket Council, with 12
available players for the third match after initially taking a
17-man squad. Wicketkeeper Matthew Wade is in doubt because of
an ankle injury, although Brad Haddin has flown in as cover.  Howard declined to go into detail on past misdemeanors,
saying there were many incidences of players not doing what they
were being asked to do by selectors, coaches, team management
and public relations staff.  “Once you bend a rule in any organization, people will
want to continue to bend it,” he said. “You keep dropping the
standards, they will continue to abuse it. So it got to the
point where they didn’t want to back down any more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  