-- Barclays Unit Sees $100 Million Africa Equity Fund This Year
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-03-11T11:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/barclays-unit-plans-100-million-africa-equity-fund-this-year.html
Absa Asset Management, a
Johannesburg-based unit of  Barclays Plc (BARC) , plans to set up a $100
million fund to invest in African shares, said Managing Director
Busisa Jiya.  “We are now at the point where we are speaking with the
regulator in South  Africa ,” he said in an interview in Lusaka,
the Zambian capital, on March 8. “The larger the size the
better, so I would say we’re looking for at least $100
million.”  Absa is seeking to benefit from the world’s fastest-growing
region after  Asia , with growth expected to reach 5.8 percent
this year, according to the International Monetary Fund’s
January outlook.  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) ’s purchase of Barclays’ African
units will help in setting up the fund, Jiya said.  “It’s not a question of logistically starting from
scratch. We have offices, we have staff, we have opportunities,
we have insight,” he said. “Our learning curve is going to be
a lot faster.”  London-based Barclays agreed to sell most of its African
assets to Absa in a $2.1 billion all-share deal that will see
the U.K. bank increase its stake in the South African lender to
62.3 percent from 55 percent. The deal was announced in
December.  Anchor Investor  Absa Asset Management, wholly owned by  South Africa ’s
third-largest bank by market value, is seeking a single anchor
investor in the Africa fund and will later recruit more, said
Jiya.  “Over time, as you earn the track record you will be able
to attract other clients that have similar investment views on
Africa,” he said. The company will then set up a collective
investment fund, he said.  JP Morgan Chase & Co. Asset Management’s  Africa Equity Fund (JPMAFEA) 
has risen 11 percent over the past 12 months, in line with the
gain in the  London ’s FTSE 100 Index over the same period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Absa’s shares declined
less than 0.1 percent to 165.36 rand by 1:37 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  