-- Barclays Said to Quit Honduras Bond Sale as Lawsuit Emerges
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-11T21:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/barclays-said-to-quit-honduras-bond-sale-as-lawsuit-emerges.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  quit as co-manager of
 Honduras ’s first international bond sale after learning about a
pending lawsuit that wasn’t initially included in the sales
prospectus, according to three investors who were contacted
directly by bankers arranging the deal.  Honduras amended the prospectus for the sale to show that
the country faces a $205 million lawsuit tied to a government-
owned logging company, according to the revised document sent to
investors and obtained by Bloomberg News.  “The Republic was recently made aware that it was
substituted as the judgment debtor in a long standing case
involving the state-owned” Corporacion Forestal y Industrias
Olancho SA, according to the prospectus.  Barclays’s withdrawal took place after government officials
met with potential investors.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is the lead
manager of the deal, according to a person familiar with the
offering who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman for Barclays in New York,
declined to comment. Ari Cohen, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment. Officials at Honduras’s Finance Ministry
didn’t immediately return an e-mail and call seeking comment.  “You worry that there are more skeletons in the closet,”
said Carl Ross, a managing director at Oppenheimer & Co., a
brokerage firm. “They probably didn’t want to take that risk.”  Honduras is rated B+ by Standard & Poor’s, or four levels
below investment grade and in line with Sri Lanka and
 Mozambique . The government may sell the securities maturing in
2024 to yield about 7.5 percent, according to the person
familiar with the offering.  The Central American country is trying to raise money in
the bond market as record-low interest rates in  Europe  and the
U.S. boost demand for higher-yielding emerging-market assets.
Guatemala, rated two steps higher than Honduras at BB, sold $700
million of 2028 bonds to yield 5 percent on Feb. 6, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the bonds has fallen to
4.95 percent since they were issued.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in Rio de Janeiro at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  