-- Barclays Backs Libor Based on Transactions Rather Than Estimates
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-03-12T09:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/barclays-backs-libor-based-on-transactions-rather-than-estimates.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , which paid about $450
million as the first bank to settle in a worldwide probe of
interest-rate rigging, said benchmarks should be tied to actual
market transactions and not estimates.  Overseers of financial benchmarks should have limited or no
discretion to set levels, Barclays said in a letter released
yesterday by the International Organization of Securities
Commissions. The letter, dated Feb. 11, was a response to
IOSCO’s January request for comments on possible measures to
overhaul the setting and governance of such benchmarks.  “Reporting transactions or tradeable prices available to
the market would serve to reduce conflicts, especially as trades
are already subject to a clear and robust regulatory
framework,” Francois Jourdain, a Barclays managing director,
wrote on behalf of the U.K.’s second-biggest bank by value.  Barclays,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  have
paid a combined $2.5 billion since June in fines stemming from
the rate-rigging investigation involving about 20 banks. An
IOSCO task force, run by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and U.K. Financial Services Authority, plans to
complete the first step in overhauling benchmarks by summer,
according to the CFTC.  The review will initially seek to set standards against
conflicts of interest in benchmarks, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler 
said on Feb. 27.  Gensler, whose agency spearheaded the investigation into
Libor rigging beginning in 2008, has urged that rates be based
on underlying transactions instead of estimates. He questions
the long-term viability of Libor.  ‘Not Anchored’  “If it’s not anchored, I don’t know what it means,
truly,” he said Feb. 27 at a roundtable meeting in  Washington .  The Barclays letter was one of more than 50 submissions
from lobbying associations and companies including LCH.Clearnet
Group Ltd. and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, and  CME
Group (CME)  Inc., operator of the world’s largest futures exchange,
said rates shouldn’t have to be based only on transaction data.  Libor should be changed to have a combination of submission
and transaction data, BlackRock managing directors Joanna Cound
and James DesMarais said in a Feb. 18 letter.  “We strongly recommend a move to such a hybrid rate
benchmark over a move to rate benchmarks based purely on
transactions,” they wrote.  CME Group said that the necessary data for a benchmark
varies depending on the specific market. The global review
“should contain clear language that there be no prescription of
methodology, neither for benchmark creation nor for
determination of market or price information on which the
benchmark is based,” Julie Winkler, CME Group managing
director, said in a Feb. 11 letter.  Barclays also said that some illiquid markets may not
provide enough data for a transaction-based benchmark.  “Such benchmarks can be useful in providing indicative
transparency on normally less transparent markets,” according
to the bank’s letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  