-- Berlusconi’s Lawmaker Allies Protest Trials Outside Milan Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-11T14:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/berlusconi-s-lawmaker-allies-protest-trials-outside-milan-court.html
Silvio Berlusconi’s allies in
 Italy ’s parliament protested outside of the Milan Court of
Justice today in a demonstration against the criminal trials
faced by their hospitalized leader.  “They want to use the courts to eliminate the political
leader with more votes than anyone else in the last 20 years,”
 Angelino Alfano , general secretary of Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party, said from the courthouse steps in remarks
televised by SkyTG24. The lawmakers protested “to defend the
democracy of our country and defend the republican institutions
that in our view are under attack,” he said.  Berlusconi, 76, is facing verdicts as early as this month
in a trial in which he is accused of paying for sex with a minor
and an appeal of a tax-fraud conviction. The three-time premier,
who entered the hospital last week with an eye ailment, is
seeking delays in the trials because he says the condition
prevents him from attending hearings. Prosecutors won the right
to have court-appointed doctors review his medical case.  “That he is right now under examination is a scandalous
fact,” Alfano said.  Politicians including former ministers Maurizio Gasparri
and Mariastella Gelmini joined Alfano.  Verdict Due  Berlusconi was due to appear in court today to hear the
prosecution’s final arguments in the prostitution case. That
hearing was originally set for March 8 and was postponed due to
his eye condition. Without further delays, the verdict in the
case would probably be handed down this month.  The trials risk derailing a bid at a political comeback by
Berlusconi, the most successful Italian politician of the last
two decades. Attempts by Berlusconi’s allies to entice Pier
Luigi Bersani, the top vote-getter in the February elections,
into an alliance have been unsuccessful. Bersani has said he
won’t renew the alliance with Berlusconi that brought Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  to power because of the criminal trials.  Beyond the tax-fraud and sex cases, Berlusconi was
convicted in a wiretapping trial in Milan last week and is under
investigation in Naples for corruption.  Berlusconi was sentenced to a year in prison on March 6 in
the wiretapping case, stemming from the publication of
transcripts of bugged phone calls relating to the 2006 battle
for control of  Banca Nazionale del Lavoro SpA . In Naples,
prosecutors are probing a senator who says he was paid 3 million
euros ($3.9 million) to switch to Berlusconi’s party in a
previous legislature.  Berlusconi has denied all wrongdoing and remains free from
prison pending appeals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  