-- BHP’s Cerrejon Workers End Strike After Signing Labor Agreement
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-03-11T23:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/bhp-s-cerrejon-workers-end-strike-after-signing-labor-agreement.html
Miners at  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s
Cerrejon coal venture in  Colombia  ended a 32-day strike today
after signing a three-year labor deal that includes annual pay
rises and improved health insurance, the union said.  Workers, who downed tools job Feb. 7 at the country’s
biggest coal mine, accepted a 5.1 percent wage increase in the
first year and increases of inflation plus 1.5 percent and 1.7
percent, respectively, over the following two years, said Marlon
Gomez, a negotiator for union Sintracarbon.  “It was a successful strike with no legal reprisals,”
Gomez said today in a telephone interview from La Guajira, near
the mine. “We’re satisfied, though there’s a bitter taste from
having extended the accord for three years when traditionally
they last for two.”  Cerrejon, whose owners also include  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) , produced 34.6 million tons of coal last year,
according to its website. Along with Drummond Co., which
restarted operations last week after a three-week suspension, it
accounted for 80 percent of Colombia’s coal exports of about 75
million tons in 2011, according to the World Coal Association.  “We all lost out with the strike,” Cerrejon President
Roberto Junguito said in a statement. “Now the priority is to
focus on safely reestablishing the operation, regaining our
clients’ trust and focusing on expansion projects.”  Health Insurance  Coal Marketing Co. , Cerrejon’s exclusive coal shipper, will
“progressively” lift a force majeure declaration, Chief
Executive Officer Howard Gatiss said today in an e-mailed
response to questions. Force majeure enables companies to
suspend contractual obligations in the face of unexpected events
including strikes.  Other benefits included a 3.4 million peso ($1,890) bonus,
a 9.6 million peso advance on productivity bonuses over the next
three years, improved health insurance and housing bonuses.  Thermal coal for 2014 delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or
Antwerp fell 0.2 percent to $95.60 a ton today. The benchmark
price for hard-coking coal in the first quarter is $165 a ton,
down 2.9 percent from the fourth quarter and the lowest since
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Emery  in Valledupar at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  