-- Gross Reduces Treasury Holdings in February From Six-Month High
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-03-11T20:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/bill-gross-reduces-holdings-of-treasuries-to-28-in-february.html
Bill Gross  cut the holdings of
Treasuries held in his $288 billion flagship fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co. to 28 percent of assets in February,
after reaching a six-month high in January.  Gross reduced the proportion of U.S. government securities
in Pimco’s Total Return Fund from 30 percent in January,
according to a report on the company’s  website . Gross has been
advising investors to avoid long-term Treasuries in favor of
U.S. five-year notes and inflation-indexed debt as central banks
provide unprecedented stimulus.  The world’s biggest manager of bond funds cut mortgage
holdings to 36 percent, the lowest level since August 2011, from
37 percent in January. It’s still the fund’s biggest holding.
The  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  held 42 percent in December.  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco doesn’t comment directly on
monthly changes in its portfolio holdings.  The fund cut its holdings of non-U.S. developed nations’
debt to 11 percent last month, from 12 percent in January.  Investment-grade credit holdings remained steady at 9
percent last month, maintaining the lowest level since November
2007.  Gross, founder and co-chief investment officer of Pimco,
wrote Feb. 27 in his monthly investment outlook that “corporate
credit and high-yield bonds are somewhat exuberantly and
irrationally priced” after years of record-low benchmark
 interest rates  from the  Federal Reserve .  Real Growth  The  U.S. economy  has to have real growth of 3 percent to
justify the current market enthusiasm, Gross said during an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” on March 5
with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . The nation’s gross
domestic product will increase 1.8 percent in 2013, according to
the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Get us up to 3 percent in the second half of this year,”
Gross said, adding that the enthusiasm graded on the degree of
irrationality was about a “six-plus or seven-minus” on a scale
of one to 10.  Gross kept the fund’s emerging-market debt unchanged at 7
percent in February for the third straight month.  The Mexican peso and the Brazilian real “stand out as
strong currencies,” Gross said March 5 during the Bloomberg
Television interview.  Gross kept the Total Return Fund’s municipal-bonds holding
at 5 percent in February for the seventh straight month, while
high-yield debt was raised to 3 percent, from 2 percent. He
raised the Total Return Fund’s net cash-and-equivalent position
to negative 1 percent last month, from negative 4 percent in
January.  Fund Return  The fund returned 7.23 percent over the past year, beating
93 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
as of March 8.  It gained 10.4 percent in 2012, beating 95 percent of its
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Treasuries
returned 2.2 percent last year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Total Return Fund’s government and Treasury debt
category includes fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds,
futures and inflation-protected securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $2 trillion in  assets  as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  