-- BlackBerry Shares Jump as Lenovo CEO Mentions Possible Deal
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-03-11T20:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/blackberry-shares-jump-after-lenovo-ceo-mentions-possible-deal.html
BlackBerry shares jumped the most
in more than a month after  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) ’s chief executive
officer was quoted in a French financial newspaper as saying his
company may eventually consider buying the smartphone maker.  Lenovo’s Yang Yuanqing told Les Echos that a deal with
Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry “could possibly make sense,
but first I need to analyze the market and understand what
exactly the importance of this company is.”  The remarks echoed comments made in January by Lenovo Chief
Financial Officer Wong Wai Ming, who told Bloomberg News that
the company was “looking at all opportunities,” including
BlackBerry. The Canadian smartphone maker began a review of its
strategic options last year after losing market share to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co., raising speculation that it
could be a takeover target.  Shares of BlackBerry, formerly known as  Research In Motion
Ltd. (BB) , rose 14 percent to $14.90 at the close in New York, the
biggest gain since Feb. 4. The stock has climbed 26 percent this
year.  Any foreign bid for BlackBerry would need regulatory
approval. The Canadian government automatically reviews all
foreign takeovers of companies with asset values of more than
C$344 million ($335 million) to determine whether the
transactions are of “net benefit” to the country.  Not Talking  When asked in January about Wong’s comments, BlackBerry CEO
Thorsten Heins said he didn’t know why the Lenovo executive had
made those remarks.  “As always with these topics, we will talk about things
when they are ready to be talked about and ready to be
announced,” Heins said in an interview at the time. “There are
other constituents in the process that need to be involved -- if
there would be anything.”  BlackBerry reports quarterly results on March 28, when
Heins is expected to update investors on any developments in the
strategic review. In the past, he hasn’t ruled out an
acquisition of BlackBerry, while stressing that he’s more
focused on striking a licensing deal or forging some other
partnership.  He said in January that he’s potentially open to licensing
the new BlackBerry 10 software -- including to other handset
makers, known as original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs.  “If OEMs come around and the business case makes sense as
a whole, we would certainly consider it,” he said. “We’d not
be prudent not to consider it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  