-- BOE Inflation Threat Means Linker Returns Top Italy: U.K. Credit
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-03-11T09:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/boe-inflation-threat-means-linker-returns-top-italy-u-k-credit.html
As Mark Carney prepares to take
charge of the Bank of  England , U.K. inflation expectations are
close to a two-year high with policy makers focusing on growth
even if it means letting consumer-price gains accelerate.  British bonds with returns tied to the rate of inflation
have gained the most among 18 nations that sell so-called
linkers, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The
U.K.  breakeven rate , or the difference between yields on indexed
and non-linked debt, rose to 3.27 percentage points from 2.67
points at the start of the year.  Relative to the U.S. , inflation
expectations are near the highest level since January 2012 and
the returns were even higher than on  Italy ’s securities.  Bank of England officials said last month that  inflation 
will quicken from the current 2.7 percent and remain above the 2
percent target until early 2016. Policy makers said they will
concentrate on measures to keep the country from falling into a
new recession and Carney, who succeeds Governor Mervyn King on
July 1, has indicated he favors a more flexible approach to
controlling price growth.  “The change of leadership with the arrival of Carney at
the bank will bring someone who has been quite outspoken and
open to new measures,” Dagmar Dvorak, a director of fixed-
income and currencies in London at Baring Asset Management,
which oversees $50 billion, said in a telephone interview on
March 4. “It would also bring a prolonged period of higher
inflation,” said Dvorak, who has been buying more linkers.  Inflation Bonds  U.K. inflation-protected bonds have returned 3.1 percent
this year, the most among countries tracked by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s bond indexes. Turkey and  Mexico  are next, at 2.6
percent in the period. Italian linkers earned 1.2 percent, after
a more than 27 percent return in 2012. British inflation has
averaged 2.8 percent in the 13 months through January, compared
with 3.2 percent in Italy, according to government figures.  Gilts that aren’t tied to changes in consumer prices are
the world’s worst performers on a currency-adjusted basis,
losing 1.4 percent this year in pound terms, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. By contrast, U.S. Treasuries
earned more than 7 percent in the period on the same basis.  Recession Risk  Inflation has remained above 2 percent for more than three
years, partly because the weaker pound has driven up import
prices. Sterling slumped 6 percent this year, the largest drop
after the yen among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  The pound was little changed from March 8 against the
dollar at $1.4922 at 9:42 a.m. in  London . The yield on the 10-
year gilt fell 3 basis points to 2.029 percent.  Gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter, and the economy is 3 percent smaller than in early
2008. A contraction in the current quarter would mark an
unprecedented third recession in the U.K. since then.  Britain hasn’t emerged from the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression as the euro-area debt crisis saps
demand for exports, inflation outpaces wage increases and
government spending cuts bite. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne made the steepest public spending reductions
since World War II to protect the nation’s top credit rating and
preserve the confidence of the bond market.  Instead, Moody’s Investors Service stripped the U.K. of its
Aaa rating on Feb. 22, while 375 billion pounds ($560 billion)
of gilt purchases with new money by the Bank of England have fed
concern that inflation will accelerate. Italy was cut one level
to BBB+ with a negative outlook by Fitch Ratings on March 8.  Default Swaps  U.K. credit-default swaps climbed 18 percent this year as
of March 8 as investor sentiment deteriorated, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more than for any other developed
nation, with only Argentina and  Egypt  swaps prices rising more.  Three of the nine members of the Bank of England’s Monetary
Policy Committee, including King, voted last month to expand a
bond-buying program known as quantitative easing to pump more
money into the financial system and bolster the economy. Deputy
Governor Paul Tucker told lawmakers on Feb. 26 that it may be
possible to spur banks to lend by charging them to keep deposits
at the central bank.  A “prolonged” period of above-target inflation may be the
trade-off required to avoid “undesirable volatility in output
in the short run,” King, 64, told a news conference on Feb. 13
after the central bank published its quarterly economic outlook.  Carney ‘Tolerant’  Carney, 47, the current Bank of  Canada  governor, has
indicated his preference for flexible inflation targeting. He
told British lawmakers Feb. 7 that central banks “can vary the
horizon” for meeting inflation goals if economic stability is
at risk. U.K. linkers are little changed since his testimony.  “Carney’s comments so far have been fairly tolerant of
higher inflation,” Peter Dixon, an economist at Commerzbank AG
in London, said in a telephone interview on Feb. 27. “We’re
probably heading for an environment where market expectations or
inflation will be edging up a bit.”  The spread between U.K. and U.S. 10-year breakeven rates
increased to 69 basis points, or 0.69 percentage point, on March
8, from minus 11 basis points in October. The U.S. breakeven
rate was 2.58 percentage points last week.  The Bank of England’s emphasis on growth mirrors central
bank policies in the U.S. and  Japan .  The Federal Reserve said in December that it will keep
interest rates low at least as long as unemployment remains
above 6.5 percent and inflation is projected to be no more than
2.5 percent. The jobless rate fell in February to 7.7 percent,
the lowest level since December 2008, and employment rose by
236,000, Labor Department figures showed March 8 in  Washington .  Fighting Deflation  Policy makers said at their Jan. 29-30 meeting that they
will continue $85 billion in monthly bond purchases until the
labor market improves “substantially.”  In Japan, the central bank is seeking to end 15 years of
deflation with a 2 percent inflation target and unlimited asset
purchases starting next year. Bond yields are near decade lows
as investors expect the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to take more aggressive
steps once Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  steps down on March 19.
Asian Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda, a proponent of
more stimulus, has been nominated to replace him. Japan’s five-
year breakeven rate reached 1.42 percentage points last week,
with the yield on the non-indexed-linked note at 0.105 percent.  U.K. linkers also got a boost this year, after their worst
performance in about a decade in 2012, as the government said on
Jan. 10 that it decided against changing how it calculates the
retail price index, which determines prices of linkers.  Monetary Stimulus  Non index-linked gilts fell the most since Feb. 13, erasing
this month’s gains, after the Bank of England refrained from
expanding its quantitative-easing program on March 7. Ten of 39
economists in a Bloomberg News survey had predicted an expansion
of at least 25 billion pounds. The rest forecast no change. The
bonds have lost 0.3 percent this month, compared with a loss of
0.8 percent for Treasuries, according to Effas indexes.  King and Paul Fisher joined David Miles in February in
calling for additional monetary stimulus. Tucker told lawmakers
he remained open to doing the same, and discussed introducing
negative interest rates, or charging banks instead of paying
them to hold their cash at the Bank of England.  “The U.K. has had a very severe recession, but we’ve had a
pretty poor performance on the inflation front,” Mark Capleton,
a fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Corp. in London,
said in a phone interview on March 4. “All these pressures make
U.K. linkers look like one of the more attractive markets on a
breakeven basis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  