-- BofA’s Zagury Quits as Derivatives Chief for Wealthy
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-03-11T20:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/bofa-s-zagury-leaves-as-head-of-merrill-derivative-investments.html
Raphael Zagury,   Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ’s head of creating derivative investments for wealthy
clients at Merrill Lynch, said he resigned.  Zagury, a 36-year-old managing director who joined Merrill
Lynch from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  about five years ago, was in
charge of creating customized derivatives for Merrill’s ultra
high-net-worth clients, which typically means those with more
than $10 million to invest, according to its  website . He
previously worked for Safra National Bank of New York.  The move is at least the third departure by a senior
Merrill Lynch executive since the start of the year. Former
Chief Investment Officer Lisa Shalett left last month. Rick Galiardo, global head of advice, guidance and marketing strategy
at Merrill, resigned last week, said two people with knowledge
of the resignations, who asked for anonymity because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  The brokerage has also hired three executives since last
October, said Susan McCabe, a spokeswoman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America. Matthew Diczok, formerly of
Morgan Stanley, was named head of fixed-income  capital markets 
and  Sean O’Brien  of Getco LLC was hired as head of equities.
Bank of America also added  Jonathan Miller  from Barclays Plc to
run equity risk strategies, McCabe said.  Zagury, a Yale School of Management graduate, confirmed his
departure and declined to comment on the circumstances. Galiardo
didn’t respond to messages seeking comment.  Earnings Increase  Bank of America, the second-largest U.S. lender by assets,
earned $2.2 billion at its  wealth-management  division last year,
a 29 percent increase from the previous year as fees from asset
management rose to a record $6.1 billion. Zagury reported to
Liam O’Neil, who was promoted last year to head of the markets
group in wealth management.  Shalett was responsible for global investment strategy at
the brokerage, home to the so-called Thundering Herd of about
15,000 financial advisers, according to a Merrill Lynch website.
She worked her way from being an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. to chief executive officer of the research firm.  Galiardo, who reported to Shalett, was a research director
at New York-based Sanford before being hired by Merrill Lynch in
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  