-- Boston Scientific’s Stroke Device Shows Mixed Results
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-11T14:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/boston-scientific-s-stroke-device-shows-mixed-results.html
Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ’s Watchman,
designed to help prevent strokes in patients with an erratic
heartbeat, may be a tougher sell for U.S. regulators after a
study failed to confirm the device’s benefit.  The trial presented at the American College of Cardiology
meeting in  San Francisco  two days ago found the Watchman could
be used more safely than previous research. An initial analysis
of the benefit, however, yielded mixed results. It wasn’t as
good as the blood thinner warfarin at preventing clots, strokes
and deaths in one of three primary analyses of the results.  The results make the device’s future less clear, said Raj Denhoy, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in  New York , in a note to
clients. Boston Scientific officials have estimated a $500
million potential market within five years for devices used to
prevent strokes by closing off a reservoir in the heart where
blood pools and forms clots known as the left atrial appendage.  “The statistics remain complex and at this point it is
unclear whether the data is sufficient to justify” U.S. Food
and Drug Administration approval, Denhoy wrote. While the study
“moved the Watchman device forward in terms of improved safety,
showing improvements in every category, there remain basic
questions on the design of the trial and whether the clinical
benefit of the product has been proven,” he said.  St. Jude Competition  The Watchman competes against  St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s
Amplatzer cardiac plug in  Europe , where both are approved. St.
Jude, based in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , said it started a study of
the Amplatzer plug last week that will be used to try to obtain
U.S. approval.  Boston Scientific declined less than 1 percent to $7.45 at
9:57 a.m. New York time. St. Jude increased less than 1 percent
to $42.27.  The FDA requested the new Watchman trial in 2009 after
refusing to approve the device because the initial study showed
an unacceptably high rate of complications. The new study dubbed
Prevail involved 252 patients treated with the Watchman and 138
who were given the blood thinner warfarin as a comparison. Just
58 patients who received the device and 30 patients in the
control group getting warfarin had completed the 18-month trial.  Boston Scientific plans to submit the findings, plus
updated results from its initial Protect AF trial and other
research, to the U.S. regulators to support Watchman’s approval,
said Ken Stein, chief medical officer of the company’s cardiac
rhythm management group.  The device probably will undergo a review at the FDA in the
second half of the year, said  Glenn Novarro , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in New York.  “We peg the odds of approval at 50/50,” Novarro wrote in
a note to clients. “Moreover, the Prevail results will likely
reduce the positive sentiment surrounding Boston Scientific’s
pipeline,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  