-- Boston Properties Says Thomas to Succeed Zuckerman as CEO
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-03-11T20:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/boston-properties-says-thomas-to-succeed-zuckerman-as-ceo.html
Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , the biggest
U.S. office real estate investment trust, said Mortimer Zuckerman will step down as chief executive officer and be
replaced by  Owen Thomas  of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Zuckerman, 75, will remain executive chairman, the Boston-
based company said today in a statement. As Lehman’s chairman,
Thomas, 51, has overseen the sale of assets including apartment
operator Archstone Inc. and offices in New York and Austin,
 Texas , to repay creditors after the investment bank filed for
bankruptcy in 2008. The changes are effective April 2.  Thomas, who will also serve on Boston Properties’ board,
previously worked at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  for more than 20 years,
including heading its real estate division, according to today’s
statement. The leadership change may mean the REIT will become a
more aggressive buyer, given Thomas’s background in acquiring
and selling properties, according to John Guinee, a Baltimore-
based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “ Boston  Properties has been an extremely well-run
development and acquisitions shop,” Guinee, who has a hold
 rating  on the company, said in a telephone interview. “But it
has not always been on the forefront. You’re bringing into the
senior leadership team someone who has an excellent global real
estate perspective.”  Market Recovery  The company has been slow to capitalize on rising values in
New York and San Francisco as those markets started to recover
from the 2008 financial crisis, Guinee said.  Boston Properties was the worst performer in the Bloomberg
REIT Office Property Index in the past year, rising 1.7 percent,
compared with a 10 percent advance for the gauge of 16
companies. The shares climbed 1.1 percent to $104.04 at the
close today in  New York .  Zuckerman said the REIT “has been focused on identifying
the right person to take over as CEO,” a job he took on in 2010
after the death of his longtime business partner and co-founder,
Ed Linde.  Thomas is “an accomplished executive and well known
throughout our industry, and he is the right person to lead the
company for the future and to build on our success,” Zuckerman
said in the statement.  Founder’s Son  The logical choice to succeed Zuckerman would have been
Douglas Linde, Boston Properties’ president since 2007 and Ed
Linde’s son, according to John Sheehan, an analyst with St.
Louis-based Edward Jones & Co.  “I’m a little surprised he didn’t get the role,” Sheehan
said in an interview.  Arista Joyner, a Boston Properties spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail that the company would have no comment on the succession
beyond the statement.  Boston Properties, founded in 1970, is the biggest U.S.
office REIT by market value. It owns properties primarily in
coastal markets including Boston,  San Francisco  and New York,
including 60 percent of the General Motors Building in
 Manhattan . Last month, the company completed its purchase of a
San Francisco development site for $71 million in the city’s
South of Market district as rents rise in the area.  Thomas began managing Morgan Stanley’s real estate-
investing business in 1994 and oversaw that unit until 2005,
when he became president of the asset-management division. He
was brought back to head the real estate unit in 2009, after it
led the asset-management division into a $1.2 billion pretax
loss in the fourth quarter of the previous year.  In 2010, gains in the real estate business helped the
asset-management division return to profitability.  Compensation Agreement  Thomas agreed to a three-year contract with Boston
Properties and will earn a base salary of $750,000, according to
a regulatory  filing . His annual target bonus will be 230 percent
of his base pay and he will receive an initial equity grant
valued at $4.5 million, including shares in the company and
 stock options .  He also has agreed to buy $1 million of the company’s
shares, according to the filing.  Zuckerman is the second major REIT CEO to resign in the
past two weeks.  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  said on Feb. 27 that
Michael Fascitelli resigned and would be replaced by chairman
and former CEO  Steven Roth , effective April 15.  In addition to running Boston Properties, Zuckerman is
chairman and publisher of the New York Daily News, and chairman
and editor in chief of US News & World Report LP.  Politics, Economy  His commentaries on politics and the economy, including a
declaration that the U.S. is in a “modern-day depression,”
have led to speculation that he might seek political office,
including mayor of New York. Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  talked to
Zuckerman about a possible mayoral bid this year, the New York
Times reported on Jan. 7.  “There’s no way I’m going to do that,” Zuckerman said
Jan. 30 on Boston Properties’ earnings conference call. “If
there was such a thing as an appointed mayor of New York, I’d
consider it.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  