-- Branson’s Virgin Atlantic Freezes Pay as Fuel Weighs on Earnings
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-03-11T11:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/branson-s-virgin-atlantic-freezes-pay-as-fuel-weighs-on-earnings.html
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. 
imposed a salary freeze for the fiscal year that began March 1
as U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson ’s flagship brand seeks to
cope with the impact of high fuel prices and a sluggish economy.  The step comes five weeks after 53-year-old American Craig Kreeger took over as chief executive officer, tasked with
reinvigorating a business that’s also being squeezed by airport
charges at its London Heathrow hub and cooperation among rivals.  “Virgin Atlantic is committed to a plan of measured
changes, both in the short and long term, which addresses these
challenges head on,” the Crawley, England-based company said
today in a statement.  Replacing older jets with new planes should also help trim
fuel costs, while the sale of a 49 percent stake to  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL) , plus a trans-Atlantic venture, will drive sales, it
said. Virgin had a loss of 135 million pounds ($201 million) in
the year to Feb. 28, the Sunday Times said yesterday, citing an
internal memo, versus an 80.2 million-pound loss in fiscal 2012.  Virgin, which competes with  British Airways (IAG)  at Heathrow,
will begin flights from  Europe ’s busiest airport to  Scotland  and
northern  England  next month, securing feeder traffic for long-
haul routes that it lost with BA’s purchase of its former ally
BMI from Deutsche Lufthansa AG last year.  The hub’s owner, Heathrow Airport Ltd., has proposed a 41
percent increase in passenger charges over the next five years
as part of a five-year, 3 billion-pound plan to complete the new
Terminal 2 facility, add taxiways and retool baggage systems.  Heathrow’s landing, parking, noise and emissions fees for
an Airbus SAS A320 jet exceeded the equivalent of $25 last July,
compared with $17 at Frankfurt airport and $16 at Amsterdam
Schiphol, according to International Air Transport Association
figures cited by Virgin, which says it’s being pressured by
“some of the most expensive airport charges in the world.”  Airbus A320 planes will be used on Virgin’s new domestic
services, to be operated by Ireland’s Aer Lingus Group Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  