-- Brazil Real Drops From 10-Month High as Central Bank Intervenes
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-03-11T21:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/brazil-real-drops-from-10-month-high-as-central-bank-intervenes.html
Brazil ’s real fell from a 10-month
high after the central bank sold $1 billion of reverse foreign-
exchange swaps to weaken the currency.  The real depreciated 0.7 percent to 1.9569 per  U.S. dollar 
at the close of trading in  Sao Paulo  after rallying on March 8
to 1.9442 per dollar, the strongest level on a closing basis
since May 8. The currency has strengthened 4.8 percent this
year, the biggest gain among 25 emerging-market counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg. Swap rates due in January 2014 fell 11
basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 7.85 percent today.  “The 1.94 per dollar area seems to be the line in the sand
for the central bank,” Bernd Berg, an emerging-markets
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “Over the medium and long term,
it will let the currency rise further below 1.94 per dollar, but
in the early stages of the economic recovery, a real
appreciating too rapidly would, in the eyes of the central bank,
damage the recovery of the export industry.”  The real rallied March 8 on speculation policy makers would
let the currency appreciate to contain inflation. The government
had reported that its IPCA index of consumer prices climbed 6.31
percent in February from a year earlier, the highest annual rate
in 14 months. The central bank sold 20,000 of 30,000 reverse
currency contracts offered today in the first auction of its
kind since Feb. 15.  Swap Rates  Swap rates fell today after President  Dilma Rousseff 
announced last week cuts in taxes on food staples to curb
inflation, reviving speculation that the central bank will
refrain from increasing borrowing costs.  Eliminating the 9.25 percent PIS/Cofins taxes will rein in
prices and stimulate the economy as Brazilians are able to save
and consume more, Rousseff said in a televised address March 8.
The measure will cut  tax revenue  by 7.3 billion reais annually.  “The government is taking action so that the inflation
outlook doesn’t get much worse,”  Gustavo Rangel , the chief
economist for  Latin America  at ING Group, said in a telephone
interview from  London .  Policy makers dropped last week a pledge to keep borrowing
costs unchanged for a “prolonged period” from their statement
accompanying the decision to leave the target lending rate at a
record low 7.25 percent.  Economists cut their 2014 economic growth forecasts in a
survey published today. Gross domestic product will expand 3.50
percent next year, according to the median estimate of about 100
analysts surveyed by the central bank, down from the prior
projection of 3.65 percent.  Currency Policy  The central bank has swung between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by preventive
excessive gains.  Brazil pushed the real down 9 percent in 2012 and 11
percent in the prior year as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said
developed economies were debasing currencies such as the dollar
while driving up those of emerging nations.  Stabilizing the real at a level that allows industry to
“survive” has put Brazil on the path to recovery following two
years of slowing economic growth, Mantega said in an interview
last month in  New York .  “We haven’t resolved it, but we neutralized, softened the
currency war issue that other countries are facing,” Mantega
said. “We are in Brazil in a transition to a more solid,
competitive and efficient economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  