-- Brazil Analysts Boost Selic Forecast First Time Since August
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-03-11T12:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/brazil-analysts-boost-selic-forecast-first-time-since-august-1-.html
Analysts covering  Brazil ’s economy
raised their forecast for the 2013 year-end benchmark rate for
the first time since August, as accelerating inflation boosts
pressure on the central bank to increase borrowing costs.  Brazil’s Selic rate at year-end will be 8 percent,
according to the median estimate in a central bank survey of
about 100 analysts published today. Analysts had forecast 7.25
percent for the previous 17 weeks and had not raised their
prediction since the survey taken Aug. 31. The Selic at year-end
2014 will be 8.25 percent, the survey showed, unchanged from the
previous week.  President Dilma Rousseff’s government has cut taxes on
consumer goods and electricity, allowed the real to strengthen
the most among major currencies this year and held the Selic at
a record low in efforts to spark economic activity and cool
inflation. While Brazil saw the slowest growth among major
 emerging markets  in 2012, government policies have stoked eight
straight months of higher-than-forecast inflation. In a March 6
statement, the central bank removed a plan to keep interest
rates stable for a “sufficiently prolonged” period, prompting
traders to increase bets on a Selic rise in April.  “The change in central bank language and the release of
inflation numbers consolidated the view of a rate increase,”
Jose Francisco De Lima Goncalves, chief economist at Banco Fator
SA, said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “But I have
doubts on the effectiveness of rate increases in this
scenario.”  Under Control  Annualized inflation in February  increased  for the eighth
straight month, jumping to 6.31 percent from 6.15 percent the
month prior, the national statistics agency said on March 8.
Inflation is under control and will reach the midpoint of the
central bank’s target in an “adequate” period, Deputy Finance
Minister Nelson Barbosa said on March 8. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Economists in the survey forecast 2013 inflation will
accelerate to 5.82 percent, their highest prediction ever for
this year and up from 5.70 percent the previous week. They held
their forecast for inflation next year at 5.50 percent.  Brazil’s industrial production increased 2.5 percent in
January, the fastest pace since March 2010, the national
statistics agency said last week, signaling a possible economic
rebound.  Growth in the world’s second-biggest emerging market will
reach 3 percent to 4 percent this year, Finance Minister Guido Mantega said on March 1. Brazil grew 2.7 percent in 2011 and 7.5
percent in 2010. Economists in the survey raised their 2013
growth forecast to 3.10 percent from 3.09 percent the previous
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  