-- Brazil’s Raw-Sugar Premium Rises on Port Backlog, Higher Sales
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-03-11T18:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/brazil-s-raw-sugar-premium-rises-on-port-backlog-higher-sales.html
Buyers of raw sugar from top grower
 Brazil  are paying a larger premium for their sweetener after
higher-than-expected sales from the South American nation and
concerns about a port backlog, according to Green Pool Commodity
Specialists Pty.  Raw sugar from Brazil was at a premium of 0.1 cent a pound
to the price of the May futures on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange
in  New York , the Brisbane, Australia-based researcher said in a
report e-mailed today. That compares with a premium of 0.05 cent
a pound last week. Raw sugar for May delivery rose 0.4 percent
to 18.82 cents a pound by 2:25 p.m. on ICE.  “Center South Brazilian sellers did an excellent job of
offloading surplus sugar in the first quarter to a wide range of
buyers at a sharp discount to March futures,” Tom McNeill, a
director at the company, said by e-mail today. “Buyers are now
concerned regarding the logistics situation in Brazil with soy
and grains congesting both Paranagua and Santos ports.”  As many as 196 ships were waiting at Brazil’s main ports to
load grains and oilseeds as of today, according to Santos-based
SA Commodities and Unimar Agenciamento Maritimos Ltd. That’s up
from 100 ships a year earlier and 86 vessels in 2011. Sugar
shipments have not yet been delayed, Nicolle de Castro, a
business analyst at SA Commodities, said by phone today.  In  Thailand , the second-biggest sugar exporter, the premium
for the raw sweetener for immediate loading climbed to 0.8 cent
a pound from 0.65 cent a pound a week earlier, according to
Green Pool. Thai sugar for the Japanese market, the so-called J-
spec, was at a premium of 1.25 cents a pound for loading from
March to May, the highest in more than five months, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  