-- Builders Fall Third Day on Financing Concern: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e
-- 2013-03-11T21:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/builders-fall-third-day-on-financing-concerns-mexico-city-mover.html
Mexico’s biggest homebuilders
tumbled for a third day after meetings with investors in New
York and London failed to quash concern that the companies will
struggle to finance themselves amid increased costs.  Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*)  sank 4 percent to a record-low
3.88 pesos at the close of trading in Mexico City, while
 Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*)  lost 1.3 percent to 26.52 pesos.  Corp.
Geo SAB (GEOB)  sank 1.4 percent to 9.99 pesos as the Habita index of
six Mexican homebuilders fell 1.5 percent.  A Mexican housing-industry  conference  that began last week
in New York and concludes tomorrow in London has done “little
to promote confidence in the sector and instead left many
questions unanswered,” Rafael Elias-Linero, a director of
emerging-markets trading at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in New York,
wrote in a note today.  Investors have punished the builders this year amid
disappointing earnings and ratings cuts. The government also is
shifting the focus of public-sector housing programs from
single-family homes to apartment buildings, which require
greater initial cash investment.  Last week, the government announced a program to cover as
much as 30 percent of banks’ losses on loans to the homebuilders
as they cope with higher costs and reduced cash flows.  The  Habita index  jumped 11 percent the day the program was
announced.  Revising Contracts  “That was an overreaction,”  Carlos Hermosillo , an analyst
with Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview. “The guarantee program is good, but it
does not solve the problem.”  Urbi is revising contracts with service providers,
subcontractors and partners as part of its consolidation process
to become “smaller, but more solid and flexible,” the company
said in a statement dated yesterday.  The company’s relationship with land partners is based on
revenue sharing from the sale of units as equity partners,
according to the statement. “There is no related financial
debt,” it said.  “Urbi reduces its initial working  capital investment  by
paying for the land only when the units have been built and
sold,” Selene Avalos, Urbi’s Chief Financial Officer said in
the statement.  The company reiterated its 2013 revenue goal of about 12.6
billion pesos, with free  cash flow  to equity of about 400
million pesos.  “The company is planning to become a much smaller player
in the next few years,” Banorte’s Hermosillo said. “If it’s
not coupled with changes in profitability and free cash-flow
generation it could not be of much help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Verbrigghe in New York at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  