-- HTC, Apple, Omni-ID, Avalanche: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-11T10:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/htc-apple-omni-id-avalanche-intellectual-property.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  won dismissal of two
 Nokia Oyj (NOK)  patent-infringement lawsuits in  Germany , the first
rulings from that country in the global intellectual-property
dispute between the companies.  The judges didn’t find that HTC violated Nokia’s patents,
Joachim Bock, spokesman for the Mannheim Regional Court, which
heard the cases, said in an interview March 8. In one of the
actions, Nokia argued HTC illicitly used its technology to run
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Play store on its smartphones.  Nokia last year sued HTC, BlackBerry and ViewSonic Corp. in
the U.S., U.K. and Germany over a total of 45 patents. The
Finnish mobile-phone maker, struggling to reverse a slide in
sales, settled with BlackBerry in December. A month earlier, HTC
reached a global settlement with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  of their patent
disputes. Nokia can appeal the March 8 ruling.  “Nokia respectfully disagrees with the court’s decision
and we are considering our options,” Mark Durrant, spokesman
for the Espoo, Finland-based company, said in an e-mailed
statement. Nokia asserted violation of more than 30 further
patents against HTC in Germany, the U.S. and the U.K. and
expects to prevail regarding those, he said.  “Nokia has exaggerated the scope of its patent in order to
extract unwarranted licensing royalties from Android handset
manufacturers,” HTC said in an e-mailed statement referring to
Google’s mobile software. “The Android platform is now safe
from oppressive enforcement of this patent.”  Google supported  Taiwan ’s HTC as a party in the case over
the Play store, which allows Android device users to download
applications and media.  The Mannheim court is scheduled to rule March 19 on whether
HTC infringed a Nokia patent for technology used to regulate a
device’s battery power use.  Apple Objects to Second Samsung Patent Lawsuit Being Put on Hold  Apple Inc. objected to the possibility that proceedings in
a patent lawsuit against  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  scheduled for
trial in 2014 will be put on hold while an appeals court reviews
an August verdict in an earlier case.  The objection, filed March 7 in federal court in  San Jose ,
 California , was in response to U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh’s
inquiry at a hearing last month. The judge said she was
skeptical of the need for both cases to proceed, especially
while the first case is being appealed.  On March 1, Koh reduced a jury’s $1.05 billion damages
award to Apple in the first case by $450.5 million. The jury
based its award for 14 Samsung products on an incorrect legal
theory, Koh ruled. She said the companies should consider
appealing her decision before any damages trial begins.  “This case must proceed now, in order to stop the ongoing
sales -- and relentless launch -- of Samsung’s latest infringing
devices, which have caused, and every day continue to cause,
continuing harm to Apple,” the Cupertino, California-based
company said in the filing.  Samsung said in the same filing, a joint report filed with
Apple, that it agrees with the judge that the second case should
be put on hold to “promote judicial economy.” The lawsuit was
filed last year and covers technology in newer smartphones made
by both companies, including Samsung’s Galaxy S III and Apple’s
iPhone 5.  Apple is challenging a decision by Koh that allows Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung to continue selling some products that
were found by the jury to infringe Apple patents.  In a Feb. 12 filing with the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit in  Washington , Apple said that Samsung has taken
market share based on its “deliberate copying of Apple’s
innovative iPhone and iPad products” and asked the court to
halt the sales.  In the March 8 filing, Samsung said staying the more recent
case will “allow the parties to attempt to reach a business
resolution of their disputes.”  The earlier case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-01846, and the case scheduled for trial next year is
Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-cv-00630, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  Omni-ID Says Xerafy Infringes Patents for RFID ‘On-Metal’ Tags  Omni-ID Cayman Ltd., a maker of radio-frequency
identification tags, sued a competitor for patent infringement.  In the suit filed in federal court in Camden,  New Jersey ,
Hong Kong-based Xerafy is accused of infringing two patents
related to what are known as “on-metal” tags.  Rochester,  New York ’s Omni-ID claims in its pleadings that
to no avail it sent Xerafy cease-and-desist notices related to
the two patents in 2012. The company said in a statement that it
began a program last year for the licensing of the two disputed
patents. Company Chief Executive Officer George E. Daddis Jr.
said that  “unfortunately, even with the launch of our
licensing program, we are still seeing many on-metal products
being sold today that are clearly utilizing these foundational
technologies owned by Omni-ID.”  In dispute are patents 7,880,619, issued in February 2011,
and 7,768,400, issued in August.  Omni-ID asked the court for an order barring further
infringement, and for awards of money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Xerafy didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is Omni-ID USA Inc., v. Xerafy, 1:13-cv-00801-NLH-
AMD, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Camden).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Acker Merrall Sued in Hong Kong by LVMH Over Champagne Trademark  Acker Merrall & Condit Co., a New York-based wine-auction
house, was sued in a  Hong Kong  court for trademark infringement
by a unit of  France ’s  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the
South China Post reported.  LVMH’s MHCS SCS unit claims the auctioneer is infringing
marks related to its Rheims, France-based Krug Champagne house,
according to the South China Post.  The Champagne-maker seeks a court order barring Acker
Merrall Asia from using the marks in connection with products
not made by MHCS SCS and also seeks money damages, the newspaper
reported.  The auction house, which didn’t respond immediately the
Hong Kong newspaper’s request for comment, has held wine
auctions there that have brought record princes for French
wines, including a case of CH. Le Pin 1982 that went for
HK$823,0000 ($106,000), according to the South China Post.  ‘Salame Felino’ Gets Geographic-Origin Name Protection in EU  A kind of cured sausage created in  Italy ’s Parma region
received geographic-name protection in the European Union.  According to a  March 5 entry  in the Official Journal of the
European Union, “ Salame Felino ” is now protected, although
Belgium, Germany and France had initially objected to some of
the details included in the description of the item.  In order to be designated “Salame Felino,” the sausage
must be produced from specific breeds of pigs, and the meat must
come from specific parts of the animal. The sausage must be
placed into natural hog casing, tied with twine, and must be
free of lactose and powdered milk.  According to the journal entry, references to such sausage
dates back to the first century, and it was “well known” by
the Bourbons. A frieze depicting the sausage can be found in the
decorations of the  Baptistery of Parma , which dates as far back
as 1196.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Keith Haring Foundation Claims Miami Exhibit Is Showing Fakes  The foundation that holds the  intellectual property  rights
of the late artist  Keith Haring  filed a copyright and trademark
infringement lawsuit over an art show in Miami.  Haring, who is best known for his cartoon-line “ Radiant
Baby ” images, was a social activist and artist who died of AIDS
in 1990 at the age of 31.  According to the complaint filed in federal court March 8,
most of the works exhibited at the  Haring Miami  show, held this
past weekend in Miami’s Moore Building, were “fakes, forgeries,
counterfeits and/or infringements.”  According to the complaint, the exhibition catalog contains
a disclaimer that some of the work being shown “has not been
submitted or examined by the Keith Haring Foundation for
authenticity.” The foundation says this disclaimer fails to
note that many of the works had been submitted for
authentication and were found to be inauthentic.  A representative of the New York-based  Keith Haring
Foundation  attended the show’s March 6 opening night and found
that of the four floors of exhibited works “approximately 8
works were real works of Haring.” Many who attended the show
“believed the art being displayed was by  Keith Haring ,”
according to court papers.  The foundation claims that of about 80 paintings in the
show, only one was an authentic work by Haring. “Each of these
works of art, if they were really Haring works, would be worth
in the range of $500,000 to $1 million,” according to the
complaint. Putting these works into the market “will cause
enormous and irreparable damage” to its reputation, the
foundation said.  The foundation said that for the most part, “they are poor
quality fake Harings.” The foundation says it is harmed by the
actions of the show’s promoters, and asked the court to bar the
defendants from advertising, displaying, selling or offering for
sale any works not created by Haring that “bear any indicia of
Keith Haring.”  Additionally, it asked for impoundment and destruction of
the allegedly infringing works, awards of profits the defendants
acquired relative to the infringement and for money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Herman J. Rossomanno III, a Miami-based lawyer for the
show’s organizers, said in an e-mail that his clients and the
foundation came to an agreement that the show was able to
exhibit 10 pieces of Keith Haring artwork.  The case is The Keith Haring Foundation Inc. v. Colored
Thumb Corp., 1:13-cv-20830, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  Florida  (Miami).  Avalanche Studios’ Founder Down on Some Anti-Piracy Technologies  The founder of the Swedish game development company
 Avalanche Studios  thinks many elements of digital-rights
management technology are more harmful than helpful, the Gaming
Bolt computer-game news website  reported .  Christofer Sundberg told Gaming Bolt that digital-rights
systems that limit the players’ game experience shouldn’t be
used.  He said such systems make game developers look greedy and
treat the game’s fans like criminals, according to Gaming Bolt.  At the same time, Sundberg acknowledged to Gaming Bolt that
piracy can inhibit game development, saying developers deserve
to be paid for what he says is years of hard work.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 