-- California Rides Fiscal Tailwinds With Debt Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-03-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/california-rides-fiscal-tailwinds-with-debt-rally-muni-credit.html
California  heads to  Wall Street 
this week to borrow for the first time since the most-populous
U.S. state earned a credit-rating boost in January, as buyers
push its debt close to the strongest in more than four years.  The relative borrowing cost for issuers in the state has
been cut in half since Governor  Jerry Brown  took office in 2011
and began whittling down chronic deficits.  Standard & Poor’s 
raised the state’s rating Jan. 31 for the first time since 2006
after voters agreed to increase taxes on income and sales. The
74-year-old Democrat has proposed a budget with a surplus,
California’s first in almost a decade.  The extra yield over top-rated municipal bonds that
investors demand to own 10-year debt of the state and its
localities was about  0.56 percentage point  last week, close to
the slimmest since November 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The improving fiscal outlook is luring investors even
after three municipalities in the state filed for  bankruptcy
protection  last year.  “California has the wind at its back,” said Bill Delahunty, director of muni research in  Boston  at Eaton Vance
Management, which oversees about $30 billion in local debt.
“The potential does exist for spreads to tighten further,
especially if the economy continues to grow and do well.”  Lockyer’s Plan  Treasurer Bill Lockyer tomorrow begins marketing $2.4
billion of taxable and tax-exempt general obligations to
individual investors, in the state’s largest sale since October
2011. The deal wraps up March 14 with bidding from institutional
investors such as mutual funds. California also plans to
remarket $228 million of taxable Build America Bonds March 13.  Nationwide, local governments are scheduled to offer about
$10 billion of long-term debt this week, the most this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Towns, cities and states are borrowing as a strengthening
labor market and rallying stocks have pushed benchmark muni
 interest rates  to the highest in months. Yields on 20-year
general obligations rose to 3.86 percent last week, the highest
since July and up from a  generational low  of 3.27 percent set in
December, a Bond Buyer index shows.  Savings Opportunity  The interest rate is still down from a 30-year average of
about 5.9 percent, allowing Lockyer and other local finance
officials to retire higher-cost debt. About half the general
obligations California is offering will refinance higher-
yielding bonds. He’s already said he will borrow more in April,
including more refunding.  Brown and labor unions spearheaded a successful voter
initiative in November that increased levies on income starting
at $250,000 -- reaching 13.3 percent on those making $1 million
or more, the most of any state. The measure also pushed the
statewide  sales tax  to 7.5 percent, the highest of any state.  For California investors paying steeper taxes, buying tax-
exempt bonds would help lower their liability.  “With the tax rates that exist now at the state level
combined with the federal  tax rate , there shouldn’t be a
shortage of investors -- particularly within the state -- that
have interest,” said Jamie Iselin, head of munis at  New York- 
based Neuberger Berman Group LLC. The company oversees about $11
billion in local debt.  Spread Quest  Iselin, however, is among portfolio managers wary of adding
California securities with yield spreads down to about half
their five-year average.  “There’s not a lot of room left for spreads to tighten,”
said Iselin. “It wasn’t too long ago that their bonds were
trading well over 100 basis points over high-grades.”  S&P in January lifted the state’s credit one step to A, the
sixth-highest level, raising it out of a tie with  Illinois  for
the lowest-rated U.S. state.  Fitch Ratings  followed this month,
changing its outlook on California to positive from stable,
meaning it is in line for an increase.  The state’s borrowing costs have declined even as it faces
federal spending reductions this year as part of automatic cuts
that went into effect nationwide at the start of March. The
state will lose about $88 million of education funding this year
under what’s known as sequestration, according to the White
House.  “The muni market is very retail-dominated, which tends to
be affected by a lot of news and headline risks,” said Michael E. Johnson, managing partner at Gurtin Fixed Income Management
LLC in Solana Beach, California, which manages $4 billion in
munis.  Quality ‘Uptick’  “People have gotten over the issues that the media has put
out there about California,” he said. “People are really
starting to realize the uptick in  credit quality .”  Still, he said money managers may demand wider yield
spreads than current levels as the deal prices.  California tax-exempt bonds due in April 2042 traded March
8 with an average yield of 3.52 percent, or about 0.56
percentage point above benchmark munis, Bloomberg data show. The
spread was about 0.96 percentage point when the bonds priced in
April.  “While we think it’s an improving credit situation, our
involvement will completely depend on pricing and where it
comes,” said  Robert Miller , a senior portfolio manager in
 Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , at Wells Capital Management, which
oversees about $32 billion in munis.  “The bonds are trading like they’re going to get upgraded
to AA,” he said. “We sold into that thinking that there might
be an opportunity to reload.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  