-- Cameron Promotes Apprenticeships Amid Austerity Doubts
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/cameron-promotes-apprenticeships-amid-austerity-doubts.html
British Prime Minister  David Cameron  will point to his youth-employment plans today to prove
he’s picked the right course as opinion polls and some fellow
Tories question his economic leadership.  “Apprenticeships are at the heart of our mission to
rebuild the economy, giving young people the chance to learn a
trade, to build their careers, and create a truly world-class,
high-skilled workforce that can compete and thrive in the fierce
global race,” Cameron will say in Buckinghamshire today,
according to remarks released in advance by his office.  The premier is seeking to defend his economic strategy as
the country is on the brink of falling into a triple-dip
recession and last month lost its Aaa  credit rating  from Moody’s
Investors Service.  Chancellor  George Osborne  is preparing to present his
budget to Parliament on March 20. Liberal Democrat Business
Secretary  Vince Cable  is one of a number of voices calling for
the government to look at whether the balance of austerity
versus growth-stimulating measures is right.  “To be in a position where 10 days before the budget the
whole strategy is now being openly debated in the Cabinet --
you’ve got  Boris Johnson , the Mayor, the  International Monetary
Fund , Vince Cable, even Theresa May today casting doubt on the
chancellor’s growth plans for the future, clearly there’s a
problem,”  Ed Balls , the opposition  Labour Party ’s treasury
spokesman, told Sky News yesterday.  “The markets, like the country, are crying out for a plan
for growth to get the economy moving because they know without
that it can’t work,” Balls said.  Barclays Plc said yesterday that it would recruit a further
1,000 apprentices and announced a new plan to support 10,000
young people into work.  Triple Dip  Britain’s economy  shrank 0.3 percent  in the final quarter
of 2012, leaving it on the brink of a triple-dip recession.
Labour says the lack of growth is the result of Osborne’s
spending cuts to narrow the  budget deficit . Moody’s cut the
U.K.’s top credit rating last month, citing the weak growth
outlook and challenges to fiscal consolidation.  A survey by polling company Opinium Research LLP for the
Observer newspaper yesterday found 58 percent of voters believe
the U.K.’s austerity program is harming the economy against 20
percent who think it is the correct course. Opinium questioned
1,950 voters between March 5-7 and weighted the replies to
represent national opinion.  Cameron said March 7 there is “no alternative” to
pursuing austerity measures to cut the U.K.’s deficit.
Yesterday, the plan was backed by Deputy Prime Minster  Nick Clegg , a Liberal Democrat, who said the government’s austerity
measures and investment in growth were pitched at the right
level.  ‘Mythical’ Plan  “To be unflinching is not to be unthinking,” Clegg told
his party’s spring rally in Brighton, southern England. “The
idea that the choice is between a cruel and unbending Plan A and
a mythical plan B is simply not the case.”  “Balancing the books is a judgment, not a science,” he
said. “And our plan has always allowed room for maneuver.”  Two days ago, Conservative Home Secretary Theresa May
appeared to make a subtle bid for the party leadership if
Cameron fails to win a majority at the 2015 election. She set
out an economic plan to a conference of grassroots Conservative
supporters in London and said the Tories must “govern for the
whole country.”  She also appealed to party traditionalists by suggesting
the U.K. withdraw from the European Convention on  Human Rights ,
an idea rejected by Clegg yesterday.  Exploiting Tensions  May’s intervention underlines the questions Cameron is now
facing about his leadership following the party’s third-place
ranking in a special election in Eastleigh, southern England
earlier this month, which the Liberal Democrats won.  Clegg sought to exploit the tensions among Tories.  “The  Conservative party  knows it needs to stay on the
center ground to have any chance of speaking to ordinary
people’s concerns,” Clegg said yesterday. “At least the
leadership seem to. But they just can’t manage it, no matter how
hard they try. They’re like a kind of broken shopping trolley.
Every time you try and push them straight ahead they veer off to
the right-hand side.”  -- Editors:  Jeffrey Donovan , Dick Schumacher  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Brighton at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  