-- Cameron Rebuffs Cable’s Call to Boost Borrowing
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-11T16:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/cameron-rebuffs-cable-s-call-to-boost-borrowing.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
rebuffed a call by his Liberal Democrat business secretary,
 Vince Cable , to loosen the government’s austerity program to
spur economic growth.  “We have the benefits of low interest rates, but we won’t
continue with the benefits of low interest rates unless we
continually demonstrate how we are going to get on top of the
deficit and stick to the plans we have set out,” Cameron told
an audience of apprentices today at a Mercedes-Benz training
center in Milton Keynes, central  England .  With Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  set to
present his next budget on March 20, Cameron is facing calls
from both the Liberal Democrats and his own  Conservative Party 
to do more to prevent an unprecedented triple-dip recession.  Tory former Defense Secretary Liam Fox today advocated  tax
cut  to be paid for by a freeze in  government spending . Cable
earlier suggested taking advantage of low  interest rates  by
borrowing to fund increased capital spending. Cameron said the
U.K. is already doing that.  ‘Big Infrastructure’  “Obviously those low interest rates and the strength of
the balance sheet of our country gives us the ability to make
sure we can have additional  capital investment ,” he said. “We
have done that in lots of ways. We have offered Treasury
guarantees to big infrastructure schemes -- no government has
been able to do that before.”  Britain’s 10-year borrowing cost of about 2 percent is
about half the level when Cameron took office. Two-year gilts
yield about 0.2 percent.  The economy  shrank 0.3 percent  in the final quarter of
2012, leaving it on the brink of its third recession since 2008.
The opposition  Labour Party , under leader  Ed Miliband , argues
that the lack of growth is the result of Osborne’s austerity
program.  Osborne and Cameron have argued since 2010 that any
deviation from their strategy would lead to higher interest
rates, further harming the economy. While Cable defended the
decision of the coalition government in 2010 to emphasize
austerity and deficit reduction, he said the question is whether
the “balance of risks has changed.”  ‘Improve Itself’  “The priority has now to be to get the economy going,”
Cable told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program. “Once the economy
does get going, you generate more  tax revenue , there are less
people dependent on public spending, and the budget then tends
to improve itself.”  Asked about Fox’s suggestion, Cameron joked today that one
of the advantages to being premier is that he receives
suggestions “from many quarters.”  “As prime minister I am never short of advice,” he said.
“But there is one piece of advice I won’t take and that is the
piece of advice that says you must cut the NHS budget,” he
said, referring to the state-run health service.  While the premier chose to reiterate that pledge, he made
no such promise about other areas of government spending that
are currently protected from cuts, such as international aid,
schools and benefits for the elderly.  A survey by polling company Opinium Research LLP for the
Observer newspaper yesterday found 58 percent of voters believe
the austerity program is damaging the economy, against 20
percent who think it is the correct course. Opinium questioned
1,950 voters from March 5 to March 7 and weighted the replies to
represent national opinion.  ‘Be Quiet’  Tory lawmaker Eleanor Laing told the BBC there was talk
within the Conservatives of replacing Cameron. “There are some
people who are clearly positioning for what might happen after
the next general election and there are some people who are
openly talking about challenges to the leadership,” she said
today. “They should all be quiet.”  A Conservative junior business minister, David Willetts,
told BBC television’s “Daily Politics” show that Cameron’s
program was more aggressive than those of former Tory Prime
Minister  Margaret Thatcher , a triple election winner.  “We are more ambitious than Mrs. Thatcher tried in the
early 80s, and that is the plan and that is what we are sticking
to,” he said.  May’s Speech  In a speech two days ago to a conference organized by the
Tory-supporting ConservativeHome website, Home Secretary Theresa May opened with an allusion to reports she was a possible
challenger to Cameron. The Tories are consistently trailing
Labour by about 10 percentage points in national polls.  “Today’s event is all about a choice of leadership --
between David Cameron and Ed Miliband,” she said. While she
twice more said Cameron would lead the Conservatives into the
next election, her speech ranged far from her policy brief,
covering public services, industrial strategy, banking and
business regulation as well as crime and security.  Nick Clegg , the Liberal Democrat deputy prime minister,
yesterday used a speech to his party’s spring rally to exploit
tensions within the Tory party, mocking it as “like a kind of
broken shopping trolley. Every time you try and push them
straight ahead they veer off to the right-hand side.”  Responding today, Cameron denied he would move off the
center ground of British politics.  “I find with my own shopping trolley, once I put my own
daughter in there that it steers a pretty straight path and
that’s exactly what I will be doing as prime minister and leader
of this coalition government.”  Cable also said today he may side with the opposition
Labour Party in a non-binding vote in the House of Commons
tomorrow calling for a tax on the most expensive houses, a
flagship Liberal Democrat policy opposed by Cameron’s Tories.  Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, said the premier
had spoken to Clegg about the vote. “The prime minister will
expect, as always, government ministers to support the
government,” Gray said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in  Milton Keynes  at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  