-- Cameron Economic Strategy Challenged by Liberals, Tories
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-03-11T09:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/cameron-economic-strategy-challenged-by-liberals-tories.html
Prime Minister David Cameron’s
strategy to get the U.K. economy growing was challenged by his
Liberal Democrat business secretary, Vince Cable, and by a
fellow Conservative, former Defense Secretary Liam Fox.  Cable suggested today the government could take advantage
of low interest rates by borrowing to fund increased capital
spending. In a speech in London, Fox was due to call for a
freeze on all government expenditure to pay for tax cuts,
according to the BBC. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne
will present his budget on March 20.  “The priority has now to be to get the economy going,”
Cable told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program. “Once the economy
does get going, you generate more tax revenue, there are less
people dependent on public spending, and the budget then tends
to improve itself.”  The economy  shrank 0.3 percent  in the final quarter of
2012, leaving it on the brink of a triple-dip recession. The
opposition Labour Party, under leader Ed Miliband, argues that
the lack of growth is the result of Osborne’s austerity program.
Moody’s Investors Service cut the U.K.’s top credit rating last
month, citing the weak growth outlook.  Osborne and Cameron have argued since 2010 that any
deviation from their strategy would lead to higher interest
rates, further harming the economy. While Cable defended the
decision of the coalition government in 2010 to emphasize
austerity and deficit reduction, he said the question is whether
the “balance of risks has changed.”  Voters’ View  A survey by polling company Opinium Research LLP for the
Observer newspaper yesterday found 58 percent of voters believe
the austerity program is damaging the economy, against 20
percent who think it is the correct course. Opinium questioned
1,950 voters from March 5 to March 7 and weighted the replies to
represent national opinion.  The business secretary, who is fighting to defend his
budget from more cuts, criticized Cameron’s strategy of “ring-
fencing” and thus protecting from cuts certain areas of
spending, including health and overseas aid.  “The problem about ring-fencing as an overall approach to
policy, is that when you have 80 percent of all government
spending that’s ring-fenced, it means all future pressures then
come on things like the army, the police, local government,
skills and universities,” Cable said. “As a long-term approach
to government spending, it isn’t very sensible.”  Fox was due to use his speech in  London  to call for general
spending cuts.  ‘Welfare-Dependent’  “Sustained lower spending and a more sensible and
consistent tax approach is a start on the path to creating a
society that is sustainable for the future in the way that our
current welfare-dependent and debt-ridden economy is not,” the
former defense secretary wrote in the Sunday Times yesterday.  Cameron hasn’t been short of advice on government strategy
recently. In a speech two days ago to a conference organized by
the Tory-supporting ConservativeHome website, Home Secretary
Theresa May opened with an allusion to reports she was a
possible challenger to Cameron. The Tories are consistently
trailing Labour by about 10 percentage points in national polls.  “Today’s event is all about a choice of leadership --
between David Cameron and Ed Miliband,” she said. While she
twice more said Cameron would lead the Conservatives into the
next election, her speech ranged far from her policy brief,
covering public services, industrial strategy, banking and
business regulation as well as crime and security.  Her proposals for what the Conservatives should offer at
the next election included tax cuts for small businesses,
looking at whether to leave the European Convention on Human
Rights, and allowing charities and businesses to provide more
services such as health and education than they already do, and
to make a profit from doing it.  Tory lawmaker Eleanor Laing told the  BBC  there was talk
within the Conservatives of replacing Cameron. “There are some
people who are clearly positioning for what might happen after
the next general election and there are some people who are
openly talking about challenges to the leadership,” she said
today. “They should all be quiet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  