-- Canada Dollar Gains for Third Day on Recovery Speculation
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-03-11T21:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/canadian-dollar-gains-versus-major-peers-on-jobs-reports.html
The Canadian dollar gained against
its U.S. counterpart for a third day after stronger-than-
forecast employment gains sparked speculation the economic
recovery is gaining traction.  The Canadian currency rose against the majority of its most
traded peers as employment data from both  Canada  and the U.S.,
its largest trading partner, exceeded estimates last week. The
jobs data followed central-bank Governor  Mark Carney ’s softened
language about tighter policy, saying inflation will “remain
low in the near term.” Canadian industrial companies’ use of
their production capacity held at almost the highest rate since
2007 last quarter, a report may show this week.  “You can chalk some of the gain up to to Canada’s better-
than-expected jobs report,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in
 Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
 Western Union Co. (WU) , said by phone. “It is seen giving a shot in
the arm to the loonie.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.3 percent to
C$1.0259 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys
97.48 U.S. cents.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond fell for a sixth
day, pushing yields up one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.94 percent. The 2.75 security maturing in June 2022
dropped nine cents to C$106.79.  ‘Overbought Territory’  The loonie will strengthen to C$1.0220 over the next few
days and as high as C$1.0160 in the next week, according to
 George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed-income and
currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada. That would be the
strongest level since Feb. 20.  “The risk of a short-term pullback in U.S. dollar/
Canadian dollar has increased after Friday’s stronger than
expected Canadian employment number,” Davis wrote in an e-mail.
“This is compounded by the technical valuations, which are in
overbought territory on a daily basis.”  Futures on crude oil, the nation’s largest export, was
little changed at $92 a barrel in  New York  after falling 1.2
percent earlier, and are down 5.7 percent over the past month.
Western Canada Select, the benchmark for oil-sands bitumen,
traded at  a discount  of $20.50 to U.S. West Texas Intermediate
price, down from $27 the week before. The discount reached
$42.50 on Dec. 14.  “A narrowing of that spread means Canadian producers
capture a larger share of the WTI quote,” David Doyle, an
analyst at Macquarie  North America  in Toronto, said by phone.
“In the second half of this year, our analysts expect it to
tighten to the high teens.”  Industrial Capacity  Canadian  industrial companies  used 80.7 percent of their
production capacity in the fourth quarter of 2012,  Statistics
Canada  may say on March 14, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey. The 80.9 percent figure in the third quarter
was the highest since the third quarter of 2007.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the greenback
versus the Canadian dollar reached 6.54 percent, the least since
Feb. 20. Implied volatility signals the expected pace of
currency swings and is quoted by traders to set prices. Lower
volatility correlates with a stronger Canadian dollar versus its
U.S. counterpart.  Employment Gain  Canada’s employment rose by 50,700 last month, more than
double the highest prediction in a Bloomberg News survey and a
median estimate of 8,000. The jobless rate remained at 7
percent, the lowest since December 2008.  “There was a raft of bad data for a couple of weeks out of
Canada, and the jobs data cast into doubt the narrative of muted
growth that may lead the  Bank of Canada  to cut  interest rates ,”
Macquarie’s Doyle said.  The loonie declined 0.5 percent on March 6 after the Bank
of Canada kept its benchmark rate at  1 percent  even as Carney
retained the bias that rates will rise over time. He has warned
in every policy decision since April that rates could go up,
making him the lone Group of Seven central banker who has
indicated he might raise interest rates.  Futures traders increased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar to the highest level
since March 2007, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission showed on Friday.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
46,663 on March 5, compared with net shorts of 21,433 a week
earlier. That’s the most net-shorts since March 2007.  The loonie has fallen 2.9 percent during the past six
months among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar has
gained 2.7 percent and the euro has surged 3.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  