-- Carlsberg Plans U.K. Market-Share Growth as Bottling Line Opens
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-03-11T14:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/carlsberg-plans-u-k-market-share-growth-as-bottling-line-opens.html
Carlsberg AS (CARLB)  said today it intends
to increase U.K. market share as the world’s fourth-biggest
brewer opens a new bottling line at its Northampton brewery.  Carlsberg is seeking to increase its hold on the declining
U.K. beer market in pubs and bars, as well as through
supermarkets and off-licenses, Benet Slay, its U.K. head, said
today in a telephone interview. The Copenhagen-based company
raised its market share in the country by 0.3 percent to 15.3
percent last year, it said in annual results in February.  U.K. alcohol consumption fell to the lowest since 1998 last
year, according to the British Beer & Pub Association.
Carlsberg’s results in 2012 were hurt by bad weather, Slay said,
and the effect of longer-term government tax increases on beer.
Even so, the brewer’s volumes fell less than the market.  The company’s U.K. volumes declined 3 percent as Carlsberg
won share in pubs and bars while suffering a slight decline in
drinks to take home. The overall U.K. beer and cider market fell
5 percent last year, Carlsberg said. Steady volumes of the
Carlsberg brand and a 20 percent to 30 percent increase in San
Miguel sales aided the company.  Carlsberg has spent 20 million pounds ($29.8 million)
adding a bottling line in Northampton that can produce 60,000
bottles of beer an hour. The Danish company will start using
“quite a reasonable chunk of the capacity,” Slay said. That
may aid profitability by reducing outsourcing.  The company is seeking to increase its operating margin, a
measure of profitability, by 0.5 percent a year on average for
the next five years in  western Europe , including the U.K.,
through measures including more efficient raw-material purchases
and production.  Carlsberg has started selling its Somersby cider in the
U.K., after demand for cider increased in the last few years,
Slay said. The cider market was “flat” last year.  The brewer will also introduce a lower-alcohol citrus
variant of its main Carlsberg brand, he said, tapping into a
“strong trend in the direction” of drinks containing less
alcohol as consumers seek to limit the amount they drink.  Carlsberg expects most of its European markets to “be
quite similar to what we saw last year,” said Chief Executive
Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussen, who opened the bottling line
today. He declined to give precise guidance on the company’s
performance this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  