-- CEDC Jumps in New York on Debt Swap as Kaufman Cuts Stake
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-03-11T21:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/cedc-jumps-in-new-york-on-debt-swap-as-kaufman-cuts-stake.html
  Central European Distribution
Corp. (CEDC) ,  Poland ’s second-biggest vodka maker, rose the most since
the end of January in New York after a shareholder reduced his
stake and the company announced a new debt swap offer.  CEDC, as the maker of the Bols, Zubrowka and Zelyonaya
Marka brands is known, surged 13 percent to 45 U.S. cents by the
close of trading in New York, trimming this year’s tumble to 79
percent. Trading volume was almost four times the average of the
past tree months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The new offer reflects terms agreed by CEDC’s biggest
shareholder Roust Trading Ltd. and a steering committee of
holders of 30 percent of the company’s 2016 notes, according to
a statement dated March 8. The plan would give Roust 85 percent
of CEDC equity and require other holdings to be reduced to 5
percent. Investor  Mark Kaufman , who backed another restructuring
plan and has criticized CEDC management, sold about 3.5 million
shares last week, cutting his stake to below 5 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and a filing.  “The company will now have a better chance to survive as
Mr. Kaufman is selling shares,” Krzysztof Kuper, an analyst at
 Ipopema Securities SA (IPE)  who rates CEDC’s U.S. stock hold, said by
phone from Warsaw. “Chances for a successful debt restructuring
are now higher.”  CEDC, based in Warsaw, erased about 50 percent of its
market value in 2012 amid slumping sales, rising liabilities and
management transitions. Revenue fell 8.7 percent in the third
quarter to $191.3 million, after shrinking in the previous two
quarters, data collated by Bloomberg show. Chief Executive
Officer William Carey stepped down in July.  The restructuring aims to reduce CEDC’s debt by as much as
$635 million. The company’s shares in Warsaw ended the day 5.8
percent higher at 1.65 zloty, or 52 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  