-- Chelsea Rallies to Force F.A. Cup Replay Against Manchester Utd.
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-03-11T00:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/chelsea-rallies-to-force-f-a-cup-replay-against-manchester-utd-.html
Defending champion Chelsea fought
back from 2-0 down to draw 2-2 at Manchester United in their
F.A. Cup soccer quarterfinal. Millwall and Blackburn will also
need a replay after tying 0-0.  Javier Hernandez and Wayne Rooney scored in the first 11
minutes for United at Old Trafford yesterday. Eden Hazard and
Ramires got Chelsea’s goals in the 59th and 68th minutes and the
Blues had chances to win in the closing moments, goalkeeper
David De Gea saving Juan Mata’s shot with an outstretched foot.  “In the second half we had so many chances to score,”
Mata told ITV. “It’s a day to be proud of the team. United
scored two in the first minutes, but we tried very hard and came
back. We have a replay at home, we are strong at  Stamford  Bridge
with our supporters.”  A date for the replay is yet to be fixed, with the winner
drawn to play 2011 Cup champion Manchester City in the final
four. That opens up the possibility of an all-Manchester
semifinal at Wembley Stadium in London on April 13 or 14.  United, which won the last of its record 11 F.A. Cups in
2004, is still in the running for an English league and Cup
double, with the Red Devils 12 points ahead of City in the
Premier League. Chelsea is seeking its eighth F.A. Cup title.  Rooney began yesterday’s game after being left out of the
starting lineup for last week’s Champions League defeat to Real
Madrid in the round of 16. United manager Alex Ferguson has said
Rooney will be offered a new contract before his current deal
ends in 2015, the Mail on Sunday reported yesterday.  Rooney Scores  After Hernandez put United ahead in the fifth minute by
heading Michael Carrick’s pass over goalkeeper Petr Cech, Rooney
doubled the lead when his free kick from the left evaded several
players and ended up in far corner of the net.  Hazard got a goal back for Chelsea in the 59th minute,
curling a right-footed shot past De Gea from the edge of the
penalty area. Ramires tied it nine minutes later, slotting the
ball past the goalkeeper after a counterattack.  In the 90th minute, De Gea managed to deflect Mata’s close-
range shot wide. Hazard and Fernando Torres also had chances to
win it for the away team before the final whistle.  “We’re lucky to still be in the cup,” United manager Alex Ferguson told MUTV. “We just ran out of legs and Chelsea were
far the better team in the second half.”  Chelsea’s interim manager Rafael Benitez, who previously
clashed with Ferguson when in charge at Liverpool, said United’s
manager had snubbed his attempt to shake hands before the game.  “I was waiting at the beginning,” Benitez told reporters.
“It was his decision. I was ready and waiting. I have some
education because I know a lot of people are watching so I know
what I have to do.”  At the New Den in  London , Millwall couldn’t convert its
greater share of the possession and seven shots on target into a
goal against fellow second-tier team Blackburn. Rob Hulse had a
chance to score for the Lions, though shot over. Andy Keogh also
hit a post and Blackburn goalkeeper Jake Kean saved Danny Shittu’s shot.  Millwall or Blackburn will play Wigan in the other semifinal.
Two days ago, Wigan won 3-0 at Everton and Manchester City defeated
Barnsley 5-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elserqqat   celser@bloomberg.net . 