-- Donilon Says China Cyber Attacks Hurt Bid for Better Ties
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-03-12T08:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/china-cyber-attacks-harm-u-s-bid-for-tighter-ties-donilon-says.html
China  is waging a campaign of cyber
espionage against U.S. companies that is threatening to derail
President  Barack Obama ’s second-term effort to improve ties,
National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon said.  The widespread theft of intellectual property and  trade
secrets  through “cyber intrusions emanating from China at a
very large scale” has become a point of contention with the
Chinese government, Donilon said yesterday in a speech at the
 Asia Society  in  New York .  His comments marked the latest step in Obama administration
efforts to curb attacks on corporate networks that U.S.
intelligence agencies and security firms such as Mandiant Corp.
have traced to China. He said it was time to hold China
accountable for “a growing challenge” to economic relations.  Donilon, who helps shape U.S. foreign policy, said China
needs to recognize the scope of the hacking issue, take steps to
halt computer espionage and start a “constructive dialogue”
with the U.S. on standards for conduct in cyberspace.  “We have worked hard to build a constructive bilateral
relationship that allows us to engage forthrightly on priority
issues,” he said in his prepared remarks. “The  United States 
and China, the world’s two largest economies, both dependent on
the Internet, must lead the way in addressing this problem.”  Donilon discussed cybersecurity as part of a broader
address on the  U.S. foreign policy  shift toward  Asia , a change
in direction from the  Middle East  that was announced in the
president’s first term. Donilon stressed that the shift wasn’t
designed to rein in China, the world’s second-largest economy.  Protect Peace  China is itself a victim of hacking and firmly opposes
cyber-attacks, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a
briefing in Beijing today. She said China will work with the
international community, including the U.S., to “protect peace,
safety, openness and cooperation in cyberspace.”  Rebalancing U.S. priorities toward the Pacific “does not
mean containing China or seeking to dictate terms to Asia,”
said Donilon. Obama has “engaged with China at an unprecedented
pace, including twelve face-to-face meetings with  Hu Jintao ,”
he said, referring to the departing Chinese leader.  Even with tensions over cybersecurity, Donilon said the
time and energy devoted by the U.S. to China and its neighbors
have already paid dividends. He cited Chinese cooperation last
week on tougher United Nations Security Council sanctions
against  North Korea , which has ignored repeated calls to suspend
its pursuit of nuclear weapons. China had the power to veto UN
action against North Korea, its increasingly volatile ally.  Korean Peninsula  Tensions on the Korean peninsula are at the highest since
at least 2010, when 50 South Koreans were killed in attacks by
the North. Dictator Kim Jong Un’s regime has increased its
bellicose rhetoric since the sanctions were tightened,
threatening to launch a nuclear strike against  South Korea  and
the U.S., which are conducting annual joint military drills.  “North Korea’s claims may be hyperbolic -- but as to the
policy of the United States, there should be no doubt: We will
draw upon the full range of our capabilities to protect against,
and to respond to, the threat posed to us and to our allies by
North Korea,” said Donilon.  Donilon cited Myanmar, which the administration still
refers to as  Burma , as a model of transition from repressive
regime to burgeoning democracy. The emergence of Myanmar from
isolation coincided with Obama’s first term in office.  Burma Experience  “I urge North Korea’s leaders to reflect on Burma’s
experience,” he said. “While the work of reform is ongoing,
Burma has already broken out of isolation and opened the door to
a far better future for its people.”  After deepening cross-Pacific economic ties during the
1980s and early 1990s, the U.S. under President  Bill Clinton 
spearheaded financial bailouts during the Asian financial
crisis. The ensuing administration of  George W. Bush  turned its
attention to the Middle East and  Afghanistan  following the Sept.
11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the U.S., before Obama embarked
on the “pivot” in attention back to Asia.  “Obama’s strategic focus on the Asia-Pacific is already a
signature achievement,” he told the Asia Society in New York.
“But its full impact will require sustained commitment over the
coming years.”  On cybersecurity, Donilon said the U.S. would do everything
necessary to shield the nation’s computer networks from attacks
on vital infrastructure, such as power grids and transportation
links. The issue surged after Alexandria, Virginia-based
Mandiant said in a Feb. 19 report that the Chinese army may be
behind a hacking group that has hit at least 141 companies
worldwide since 2006.  Shaky Ground  Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  said March 9 that news
articles blaming China’s government and military for computer
hacking are on “shaky ground,” and such stories serve
political motives.  China opposes turning cyberspace into a “new battlefield”
and countries should introduce global rules to govern conduct,
Yang told reporters at a press conference during the National
People’s Congress in Beijing.  U.S. House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers has
said that cybersecurity should be made the top issue in any U.S.
trade discussions with China as a way to pressure the government
in Beijing to halt computer espionage.  Rogers, a Michigan Republican, has accused China of
widespread digital spying aimed at stealing intellectual
property from U.S. companies.  “We have to deal with it now or we’re going to have a
horrible problem,” Rogers said in a March 1 interview with
Emily Chang on Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg West.” “If
they want to be great international players in the international
global economic market, you can’t act like a thief.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  