-- Christie Relying on Web Bets for N.J. Budget Seen as Risk
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-03-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/christie-relying-on-web-bets-for-n-j-budget-seen-as-risk.html
Governor  Chris Christie  is betting
New Jersey’s new online-gambling law will propel an 85 percent
jump in casino-tax collections next fiscal year. He faces a
skeptical group of analysts and lawmakers.  The governor’s 2014 budget anticipates a $1.2 billion
market from Internet bets in its first year. Analysts at Moody’s
Investors Service, Deutsche Bank AG and Bloomberg Industries all
say that sounds too optimistic, with their estimates ranging
from $250 million to about $850 million.  Christie, a 50-year-old Republican seeking a second term,
missed his target for more than 8 percent revenue growth this
year as sales, corporate and casino revenue fell short, forcing
him to abandon an income-tax cut. Next year he’s counting on a
smaller 4.9 percent gain, which depends in part on Internet
wagers taking off to help Atlantic City rebound from six
straight years of decline.  “You have to be realistic, and I’d think by this time he’d
err on the side of caution,” said Assembly Budget Chairman
Vincent Prieto, a Democrat from Secaucus. “If he doesn’t make
those numbers, clearly we are going to have to cut somewhere in
the middle of next year.”  Christie has made an Atlantic City revival a centerpiece of
his first term, saying casinos are crucial to  New Jersey ’s
economic recovery. He created state-run tourism districts and
extended $261 million in tax credits to jump-start development
of the first new casino in nine years, by Revel Entertainment
Group LLC. Revel opened in April, failed to meet earnings
expectations and is planning a prepackaged bankruptcy to erase
more than $1 billion in debt.  Below Targets  The governor’s $32.9 billion spending plan, the final one
of his first term, will take effect four months before Election
Day. His budget would delay property-tax rebates to close the
current year’s deficit as he increases spending on schools and
pensions, and expands Medicaid.  A year ago, Christie proposed a budget that predicted the
state’s collections from the 8 percent tax on  Atlantic City ’s
casinos would jump 16 percent in fiscal 2013, which began July
1. Through February, that revenue was 28 percent below target.  Christie, who vetoed Internet betting in 2011, reversed
course this year and legalized it to fend off competition from
nearby states that have expanded gambling. His authorization set
off a national horse race over an online market that’s forecast
to reach $7.4 billion in five years.  ‘Long Shot’  “It’s a long shot,” said Gene Johnson, a senior vice
president at Spectrum Gaming Group LLC, a casino research and
consulting firm in Linwood, New Jersey. “I can’t see them
reaching that $1.2 billion figure.”  New Jersey became the most populous state to legalize
online gambling, following action by  Nevada  and  Delaware . Other
states may follow after a 2011 Justice Department opinion said
the Federal Wire Act, which prohibits the use of wires to
transfer bets, applies only to sporting events or contests, said
Brian C. Miller and Tim Craighead, gaming analysts for Bloomberg
Industries.  Delaware probably will be the first to roll out online
gaming, by September, while Nevada may follow by year-end, said
Andrew Zarnett, a gaming analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities in
 New York . In  Pennsylvania , whose Philadelphia-area casinos have
siphoned gamblers from Atlantic City, Representative Tina Davis,
a Bristol Democrat, plans to introduce a bill to establish
 Internet gambling  this week.  Two Years  Implementation in New Jersey may take as long as two years,
Zarnett estimated in a Feb. 28 report. Gary Loveman, chief
executive officer of  Caesars Entertainment (CZR)  Co., gave a similar
time frame during a Feb. 25 conference call.  Delaware estimates an additional $9 million of  tax revenue 
from online betting in its first full fiscal year after
implementation, according to Moody’s. Christie is expecting to
collect $180 million from a 15 percent tax on online casino
revenue in fiscal 2014, according to his budget summary.  Miller and Craighead estimate that online gambling would
result in $128 million of state taxes, though only if fully
rolled out by July 1.  “He is in trouble,” Senator Raymond Lesniak, an Elizabeth
Democrat who sponsored New Jersey’s online gambling bill, said
of Christie’s forecast.  Lesniak said he projects first-year tax collections of
about $45 million, based on operators posting about $300 million
in revenue.  Being Kind  “I’m being kind when I say optimistic -- I mean
unrealistic,” Lesniak said. “I just don’t see how a couple of
hundred million dollars going into the state treasury can be
reached. And I’m the main proponent of this.”  Casinos account for more than two-thirds of the tax base in
Atlantic City, where a quarter of its 40,000 residents live in
poverty. The seaside city was a bustling resort until the 1960s,
when it became riddled with crime and corruption. The state
approved casinos in 1976 to boost the city’s ailing finances.  The $2.6 billion Revel has fallen short of its own
expectations, ranking next to last in January gambling revenue
among the city’s 12 casinos, the state reported Feb. 11. Under
the bankruptcy agreement with lenders, the casino will
restructure to erase more than $1 billion in debt.  Christie also signed a law last year to allow wagering on
professional and college sports in Atlantic City and at
racetracks. A federal judge this month ruled against the
governor, siding with groups including the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association  and the  National Football League  that sued
to block the legislation from taking effect.  Sports Books  Sports-book wagers account for one-third of the $30 billion
Internet gaming industry, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Still, Christie said his budget projections weren’t
counting on sports wagering.  “Our revenue projections were based upon the institution
of Internet gaming and what we think will be a generally better
nature of the economy in the next year which will lead to more
people having more disposable income and gambling more,”
Christie told reporters on March 4 in  Jersey City .  Christie said March 4 that the state will file an appeal of
the court ruling and that he anticipates the case will take two
years to be resolved before the U.S. Supreme Court.  “Without sports betting, I don’t see New Jersey getting to
a billion-dollar industry, especially not in the next five
years,” said Spectrum’s Johnson. “I’m not going to say that I
understand the governor’s thought process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  