-- Citigroup’s Kan, Darakov Said to Leave, Expanding Russian Exodus
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-03-11T12:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/citigroup-s-kan-darakov-said-to-leave-expanding-russian-exodus.html
Citigroup Inc.’s (C)  Moscow-based
equities head Igor Kan and sales chief Anatoly Darakov are
leaving the bank, according to three people with knowledge of
their departures.  Kan joined Citigroup in 2010 after 15 years at Morgan
Stanley, where he had worked his way up to deputy chief
executive for Russia. He is considering a move to Rosneft Bank,
the financial arm of Russia’s biggest oil producer, which hired
three former Morgan Stanley executives last year, according to
the people, who asked not to be named because his plans to leave
haven’t been made public.  Kan and Darakov each declined to comment when contacted on
their mobile phones, as did Denis Denisov, a Citigroup
spokesman. Rosneft Bank’s Walid Chammah, former chairman of
Morgan Stanley’s international business, declined to say whether
an offer had been made to Kan.  U.S. and European investment banks have been retreating
from Moscow because of falling revenue and reduced margins. ING
Groep NV, the biggest Dutch financial services company, said
last month it will close its Russian equities unit, following
 Italy ’s UniCredit SpA, which said in June it would shutter its
Russian securities operation. Citigroup was the seventh-biggest
arranger of Russian equity sales last year and in 2010, down
from third in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ian Colville, head of equity sales Citigroup in Moscow,
left the bank in November after two years in the position. Will
Hammond, a senior Moscow equity salesman, left in July as part
of the group’s drive to eliminate jobs and lower costs. A year
ago, Citigroup cut Moscow research chief Mikhail Seleznev, sales
trader John Heisel and equity traders Alexander Zorov and Sergey
Akimov.  Chammah, Rair Simonyan, a former Morgan Stanley  Russia 
chairman, and Elena Titova, a former Morgan Stanley Russia
president, were joined at Rosneft Bank, a unit of state-run OAO
Rosneft, by 10 support staff from the international bank’s
Moscow office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  