-- Colonoscopy May Be Overused in Older Adults, Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-03-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/colonoscopy-may-be-overused-in-older-adults-study-finds.html
Older U.S. adults may get too many
colonoscopies, costing Medicare an estimated $500 million a year
and putting patients at an increased risk of side effects such
as bleeding, researchers found.  About one-quarter of colonoscopies in Medicare recipients
ages 70 and older may be inappropriate based on screening
guidelines, according to analysis of insurance claims data
released yesterday in the journal  JAMA Internal Medicine .  The  U.S. Preventive Services Task Force , an independent
medical advisory group to the government, and the  American
College of Physicians  recommend against routine colon cancer
screening after age 75. Colon cancer is a slow-moving disease
that can take 10 to 20 years to progress, while colonoscopies to
screen for the disease can cause intestinal tears, bleeding and
hospitalizations, said  Kristin Sheffield , the lead study author.
Doctors and patients may not be aware of the potential harms of
colonoscopy at an older age, she said.  “Inappropriate colonoscopies involve an unnecessary risk
with no added benefit for the older patient,” Sheffield, an
assistant professor in the Department of Surgery at the
University of  Texas  Medical Branch in Galveston, said in a
telephone interview. “The harms are greater than the expected
benefit.”  Colonoscopies, an examination of the large intestine and
rectum, can cost $800 to $1,200 each, according to  James
Goodwin , a senior author of the study. Inappropriate use of the
procedure may cost Medicare, the U.S. health program for the
elderly and disabled, about $500 million a year, he said in an
e-mail.  Texas Cases  Researchers in the study looked at Medicare claims data in
Texas and a 5 percent sample from the U.S. from 2000 through
2009. They identified beneficiaries who were 70 years and older
who had a colonoscopy from October 2008 through September 2009.  The analysis showed that about 23 percent of colonoscopies
performed from 2008 to 2009 in Texas and the U.S. were
potentially inappropriate, meaning they were done in people
older than called for by screening recommendations or occurred
too soon after a previous test yielded negative results. A
colonoscopy is usually performed once every 10 years.  In Texas, about 39 percent of  colonoscopies  performed in
patients ages 76 to 85 and 25 percent of those in people 86 and
older were potentially inappropriate, the study found.  Cancer Deaths  About 143,000 cases of  colon  and rectal cancer are expected
to be diagnosed this year in the U.S., and an estimated 50,830
patients will die from the disease, according to the National
Cancer Institute.  The  American College of Gastroenterology , the  American
Cancer Society , the U.S. Multi-Society Task Force on Colorectal
Cancer and the  American College of Radiology  don’t address age
limits for screening, the authors wrote.  The researchers also looked at which doctors were
performing the most colonoscopies in Texas over the study and
found that they were typically surgeons and graduates of medical
schools before 1990.  In a second study released yesterday, researchers from Case
Western Reserve University in  Cleveland ,  Ohio , looked at the
rate of hospitalization following colonoscopy with anesthesia.
They found that while the rate of complications is small,
patients who had anesthesia were at a higher risk for  aspiration
pneumonia , an inflammation of the lungs and airways from
breathing in foreign material.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  