-- Colombia Bond Yields Fall on Rate Cut View; Peso Little Changed
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-03-11T18:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/colombia-yields-fall-on-rate-cut-view-peso-little-changed.html
Colombia ’s peso bond yields fell to
a record on mounting speculation that policy makers will reduce
 interest rates  this month to buoy growth in the Andean economy.  Yields on peso debt due May 2014, the benchmark for bonds
with shorter maturities, fell one basis point to 3.83 percent at
the close if trading in Bogota. The yields were at the lowest
since the securities were issued in 2009.  Colombia’s economy has no inflationary pressure in the near
future, as excess capacity helps keeps prices down, the central
bank said March 8 in the minutes of its February meeting where
policy makers reduced the overnight lending rate a quarter point
to 3.75 percent. Banco de la Republica has cut its policy  rate 
six times beginning in July to 3.75 percent, the lowest level
among major Latin American economies.  “The minutes kept their dovish tone, with clear reference
to low inflation and weak growth that support our expectations
for another interest rate cut of 25 basis points in the next
monetary policy meeting on March 22,” Felipe Hernandez, a
 Stamford , Connecticut-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, wrote in a note to clients today.  Banco de la Republica also cited “paralysis” in the
country’s coal industry and the risk of lower demand from
 Venezuela  in its unanimous decision to cut the policy rate last
month. Annual inflation decelerated in February to 1.83 percent,
the slowest since 1955 and below the bank’s target range of 2
percent to 4 percent.  “Beyond March we think that the probability of further
cuts are limited and will depend on incoming data,” Daniel
Chodos, a strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
report today. He also forecasts a reduction of 25 basis points
in the March meeting.  The peso was little changed at 1,802.05 per  U.S. dollar .
It’s down 2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  