-- Colorado Senate Passes Gun-Control Bills After Shootings
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-03-11T23:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/colorado-senate-passes-gun-control-bills-after-shootings.html
Colorado’s Senate narrowly approved
gun  restrictions  including background checks for all firearm
sales and limits on high-capacity ammunition magazines, in the
wake of two of the worst mass shootings in U.S. history.  The Senate also passed a measure that requires domestic-
violence offenders to surrender their guns, a bill setting a fee
for background checks and legislation mandating in-person
training for concealed-carry permit applicants.  “If you are law-abiding you go through the gate; if you’re
not, you don’t,” said Senate Majority Leader Morgan Carroll, a
Democrat from Aurora, referring to the bill she sponsored
requiring background checks for all gun sales.  “If we fail to do a common-sense measure -- the one thing
the data tells us blocks many criminals from buying weapons --
then shame on us,” added Carroll, whose district includes the
Aurora cinema where James Holmes allegedly killed 12 and wounded
58 on July 20.  All the Democrat-backed gun bills approved yesterday now
proceed to the state’s House of Representatives, except the
background-check fee measure, which already cleared the lower
chamber and heads to Governor John Hickenlooper. The Democratic
governor has indicated he approves of that measure as well as
those requiring background checks for all gun sales and limiting
magazine capacity -- both key policy goals of President  Barack Obama .  Gun Culture  Colorado, with a gun-friendly culture in which many
children grow up learning to use their parents’ weapons, is the
second state after New York to advance sweeping limits following
the massacres in Aurora and Newtown, Connecticut, where 20
children and six school employees died. Firearms legislation is
also being debated in Congress and statehouses nationwide, with
Colorado’s action seen as a barometer of the public’s
willingness to support new restrictions.  Both houses of the state’s  General Assembly  are controlled
by Democrats, who introduced an ambitious  agenda  of gun-control
legislation on Feb. 5. The measures on universal background
checks and limiting magazines to 15 rounds that already cleared
the House will reviewed by that body because of amendments added
by the Senate.  A total of five bills were advanced over objections of
Republicans, who argued that they were overly broad, did nothing
to improve safety and infringed on Second Amendment rights.  ‘It’s Absurd’  “It’s absurd,” said Senator Greg Brophy, a Republican
from Wray, referring to the background checks bill, “because it
doesn’t do anything to improve safety unless you’re willing to
take the step of registering all firearms.”  Several Republicans, including Brophy, said they would
openly defy a limit on ammunition magazines if it became law.  “I can say this with no hesitation -- I will not abide by
this law if passed,” said Senator Vicki Marble, a Republican
from Fort Collins. “Neither will my family, my friends, and
judging from my e-mails, I doubt most of the people in my
district.”  The background-checks requirement for all gun sales and
legislation instituting fees for such reviews were each advanced
by only two votes in the Senate, where Democrats hold a 20-15
majority. The magazines limit passed by a single vote.  Conservative Senators also called attention to threats by
Erie, Colorado-based Magpul Industries Corp., the state’s
largest firearm-accessories maker, to take hundreds of jobs
elsewhere if high-capacity magazines were restricted. Companies
that rely on Magpul contracts also said they’d relocate.  Jobs Threatened  “There will be hundreds of people, possibly thousands of
people, because of the satellite businesses, who will be
affected by this legislation,” said Senator Randy Baumgardner,
a Republican from Cowdrey, referring to limits on magazines.
“Those people will be out of work.”  Democrats rebuffed assertions that the gun measures would
outlaw common handguns and harm the region’s economy, pointing
to the state’s two mass shootings. In addition to the Aurora
massacre, 15 people died in a 1999 attack at Columbine High
School near Denver.  “We can’t get the kids back that we lost, but we can sure
fight not to send more,” said Senator Mike Johnston, a Democrat
from Denver. “It’s going to take our ability to make a
commitment on values -- the dilemma comes when you have
competing values on both sides.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  