-- Colorado Poised to Join New York in Approving Sweeping Gun Bills
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-03-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/colorado-poised-to-join-new-york-in-approving-sweeping-gun-bills.html
Colorado is poised to follow  New
York  as the second state to pass sweeping gun-control
restrictions following mass shootings last year in a suburban
Aurora theater and an elementary school in Newtown,  Connecticut .  The Colorado  Senate  today will take a final vote on a
 measure  that mirrors a policy goal of President  Barack Obama :
requiring background checks for private gun sales. It will also
consider  instituting  a fee for such reviews. Senators may  limit 
high-capacity ammunition magazines;  force  domestic-violence
offenders to surrender firearms; and  require  in-person training
for concealed-carry permit applicants.  “There are 310 million guns in America and 314 million
people in America and America still has one of the highest
homicide rates in any of the developed countries,” Senate Majority Leader Morgan Carroll, who sponsored the background
check bill, said on the floor in Denver on March 8.  The intense debate over gun control in Colorado, where many
grew up hunting, is playing out in statehouses nationwide.
Congress is wrangling over similar measures and  Maryland  will
consider restrictions this month. Last week,  South Dakota  became
the first state since the Newtown massacre to allow teachers to
carry guns in the classroom.  After Columbine  If Colorado’s bills pass, all will move to the  House of
Representatives  except the fee measure, which will go to
Democratic Governor John Hickenlooper, 61. The House already
approved the universal background check measure and high-
capacity magazine limits, but must ratify Senate amendments. The
governor has said he supports the legislation.  “Closing the private-sale loophole is a meaningful way to
keep guns out of the hands of dangerous killers,” said Carroll,
whose district includes the Aurora cinema where James Holmes is
accused of killing 12 and wounding 58 last year.  It would be the first time lawmakers in the state approved
legislation significantly tightening firearm restrictions since
15 died, including the attackers, in a 1999 massacre at
Columbine High School near Denver. The votes come almost three
months after the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in
Newtown, where 20 children and six adults were gunned down.  If the  Colorado  Legislature’s Democratic majority passes
the bills over the objections of Republicans who argue it will
deter businesses and hunters from spending money, the action may
impel similar measures in Congress and elsewhere.  Bellwether State  “Colorado is much more of a leadership state on an issue
like guns than an Eastern state or a Southern state,” said
 Robert McCrie , a professor of security management at New York’s
John Jay College of Criminal Justice. “Colorado is a Western
state with Western traditions, particularly enshrining the
respect for hunting and the ownership of rifles.”  With opposition in Congress stalling Obama’s bid for
tighter laws, Democrats in statehouses are pushing firearm
restrictions. State legislatures are considering more than 600
 gun-control  bills and about 540 measures broadening gun rights,
according to a March 5 analysis by the San Francisco-based  Law
Center to Prevent Gun Violence .  “This is a huge increase -- a 63 percent increase in the
number of bills that would strengthen gun laws over the same
time last year,” said Laura Cutilletta, a senior staff
attorney. “And a 14 percent increase in bills that would weaken
gun laws.”  Maryland Moves  Facing opposition from gun owners, manufacturers and
National Rifle Association lobbyists, the laws have been slow to
advance outside New York, which in January became the first to
respond to the Newtown massacre by tightening its assault-
weapons ban and outlawing magazines with more than 10 rounds.  In Maryland, where Democratic Governor  Martin O’Malley ’s
party controls the legislature, lawmakers may give final passage
to some of the nation’s strictest laws. The issue has drawn
hundreds to demonstrations in Annapolis and opposition from
Accokeek, Maryland-based Beretta USA Corp.  The state Senate approved legislation Feb. 28 that would
ban assault rifles and high-capacity magazines, keep guns out of
the hands of the mentally ill, and impose new licensing rules
for handguns, including training and fingerprinting requirements
for permit applicants. It is pending in the House of Delegates.  In Colorado, today’s Senate action follows weeks of debate
featuring tearful testimony from relatives of those killed in
Aurora and Newtown and thousands of e-mails to lawmakers from
gun-rights supporters, who communicated their opposition March 4
by circling the capitol honking their car horns.  Job Threat  Erie, Colorado-based Magpul Industries Corp., the state’s
largest firearm accessory maker, and companies that manufacture
parts for it, said they would take hundreds of jobs elsewhere if
the bill limiting magazines to 15 rounds and no more than 28
inches worth of shells for shotguns passed.  During debate March 8, Republican senators from rural areas
argued the measures were backed by New York Mayor  Michael
Bloomberg ’s  Mayors Against Illegal Guns  and residents living on
the urban Front Range who are disconnected to the state’s
frontier heritage. Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  “There are an awful lot of people in my district who will
end up being criminals under this, not for any other crime than
being in possession of a magazine,” said Senator Ellen Roberts,
a Republican from Durango.  Urban Bubble  “In less than 20 minutes I’m in the state of  New Mexico ,”
Roberts said. “ Arizona  is 40 minutes away -- how are we asking
our county sheriffs to figure out how to implement something
like this? On the Front Range you are insulated -- that’s not
the world I live in.”  Democrats declared victory after five bills were approved
on a voice vote, saying Colorado is paving the way for other
states.  “During the last three months we’ve experienced hatred and
vitriol I haven’t seen since I was on the streets as a police
officer,” said Senate President John Morse, a Colorado Springs
Democrat. “This debate on reducing gun violence in this country
needs to happen and I’m proud to represent Colorado.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  