-- Credit Swaps Fall to 2-Year Low; Viacom Sells Debt in Two Parts
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-03-11T21:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-after-reaching-two-year-low.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell for the third consecutive session, dropping to the
lowest level in more than two years.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.1 basis points to a mid-price of 79.4 basis points at 4:41
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the lowest since 79.3 on Feb. 17, 2011.  Investors are now watching U.S. retail sales and initial
jobless claims data to be released this week, to get further
direction on the pace of economic recovery. Government data in
 China  showed the country’s industrial output expanded at a
slower pace and lending and retail sales growth slowed. Fitch
Ratings lowered  Italy ’s government bond grade one level to BBB+
March 8, citing political paralysis that threatens the country’s
ability to respond to a recession and the  European debt crisis .  “People are kind of cognizant of all the risks in the
world, but positioning is totally in the opposite direction,”
Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC, which
oversees about $250 million, said today in a telephone
interview.  Viacom Offering  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , owner of the Paramount film studios and cable
networks Nickelodeon and  MTV , issued $550 million of unsecured
bonds in a two-part deal, boosting the offering from an initial
$500 million.  The company sold $300 million of 3.25 percent notes due
2023 that yield 130 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries and $250 million of 4.875 percent debt due June 2043
that pays 165 basis points more than benchmarks, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The securities were rated Baa1 by
Moody’s Investors Service and were given an equivalent BBB+ at
Standard & Poor’s.  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 6.2 basis points to 398.5 basis points, the
lowest level in two years, Bloomberg prices show.  Chesapeake Swaps  The cost of protecting  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s debt from
losses increased after the oil and natural gas producer sued
trustee  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  in Manhattan federal court
seeking to redeem $1.3 billion in notes early without paying a
premium.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the Oklahoma City-based
company’s debt added 6.5 basis points to 381.2 basis points as
of 4:34 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt fell 15 basis points to 483.4 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  