-- Croatia, Slovenia to Sign Bank Accord, Clearing Way to EU
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-03-11T10:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/croatia-slovenia-to-sign-bank-accord-clearing-way-to-eu.html
Croatia  and  Slovenia  signed an
accord to solve a banking spat dating back to the breakup of
Yugoslavia, allowing Slovenia to ratify its neighbor’s European
Union membership.  The signing today by premiers Zoran Milanovic of Croatia
and Janez Jansa of Slovenia finalizes a March 7 deal to approach
the  Bank for International Settlements  for help in resolving a
dispute over the Yugoslav-era predecessor of Slovenia’s Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. Croatia will suspend lawsuits in the
matter, while Slovenia pledged to start approval of Croatia’s
July 1 entry.  “This agreement resolves the last obstacle on the path of
Slovenia’s ratification of Croatian EU accession,” Jansa told
reporters in Mokrice, Slovenia, after the ceremony. “Slovenia’s
government will send the bill on ratification to parliament this
week.”  The two adjoining former Yugoslav republics have haggled
for years over 270 million euros ($351 million) that Croatia
wants Slovenia to pay in compensation for the bank’s actions
following the split-up. Slovenia, an EU member that controls
NLB, had threatened to veto Croatia’s bid if claims were not
withdrawn.  Confronting Changes  For its part, Croatia guaranteed it won’t revive the
lawsuits in the future Milanovic told the same news conference.  “Politics is about confronting changes, and European
politics is about confronting them together,” said EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  in a statement sent by e-mail in Brussels
today. “By choosing the path of dialog, tenacity and
compromise, you have been able to turn the page as member states
of our union.”  Of the 27 EU members, Slovenia is the only one yet to start
ratification. Twenty-two states completed the process, while
 Germany ,  Denmark ,  Belgium  and the Netherlands have started the
procedure.  Slovenia is struggling with a political crisis as it
battles recession and the threat of becoming the sixth euro
member to need a bailout. Parliament on Feb. 27 voted to replace
Jansa with Alenka Bratusek, the leader of Positive Slovenija,
who has to form a new government and have it approved by
lawmakers by mid-March.  Political Will  Jansa said the turmoil won’t derail the process since
“there is political will across the spectrum” to make sure
Slovenia doesn’t hold up Croatia’s entry to the bloc.  The two nations asked the Basel-based BIS once before to
mediate in the conflict. The bank in 2010 rejected an
arbitrator’s role, saying it could not bring any added value to
negotiations.  The agreement also paves the way for NLB, Slovenia’s
largest bank, to start operating in Croatia from July after
being banned over the issue.  Another 130,000 Croat savers, who after the breakup of
former  Yugoslavia  chose not to transfer their claims to the
Croatian government, are separately seeking about $204 million
from the Ljubljana-based bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  