-- CSRC’s Guo Pledges Bigger Offshore Yuan Investment Quotas
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-11T04:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/csrc-s-guo-pledges-bigger-offshore-yuan-investment-quotas.html
China ’s securities regulator said
authorities have the ability to expand a program that allows
institutions to raise yuan offshore for investment in the
mainland if the existing allotment becomes insufficient.  Investment quotas under the  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign
Institutional Investors Program, also known as RQFII, were
increased by 200 billion yuan ($32 billion) in November. They
“can be expanded further when needed,” Guo Shuqing, chairman
of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, said yesterday in
Beijing, while attending annual meetings of the National
People’s Congress, the country’s legislature.  Chinese policy makers have stepped up efforts to bring
long-term overseas investors into domestic markets to boost
confidence. The CSRC last week broadened the types of investors
allowed to take part in the RQFII program, adding financial
institutions registered in Hong Kong and the Hong Kong units of
Chinese banks and insurers. Earlier participation was limited to
Chinese brokerages and fund-management firms.  China approved the RQFII program in December 2011. A total
of 27 offshore units have been awarded quotas of 70 billion  yuan 
($11.2 billion) to invest, according to the CSRC. Of that
amount, 27 billion yuan has gone into bonds, and 43 billion yuan
into exchange-traded funds, the watchdog said. China’s currency,
the yuan, is also known as the renminbi.  The current allotment is “sufficient” for now, Guo said
yesterday. Available RQFII quotas were increased to 270 billion
yuan in November. Guo had earlier also said that ceiling could
be raised by 10 times.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  