-- Cut Global Red Tape to Promote Economic Growth
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-03-11T22:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/cut-global-red-tape-to-promote-economic-growth.html
Imagine that you own a small but
rapidly growing company in  Vermont , and that your products are
starting to sell in  Maine ,  New Hampshire  and  Massachusetts . You
would probably hate it if those states forced you to comply with
inconsistent and redundant regulatory requirements.  Fortunately, the U.S. has a national market. Sure,
unnecessary  red tape  still produces headaches, but the federal
system (including the Constitution) sharply limits a state’s
power to disrupt the free movement of goods across state lines.
Within the U.S., that movement has been a crucial engine of
economic growth.  Now suppose that your small but growing company is starting
to attract customers in  France ,  Germany  and South Korea. You
might well run into a  host  of disparate regulatory requirements.
Those requirements may prove prohibitively expensive to meet,
making it impossible for you to sell products for which there is
a real demand.  Over the last decade, American businesses have been
emphasizing the need to increase  international regulatory
cooperation , thus harmonizing requirements and eliminating “non-
tariff trade barriers” (the technical term). At its best, such
cooperation opens markets and promotes exports. As a result, it
contributes to  economic growth  and job creation, and it can save
consumers a lot of money.  Trade Talks  It is for this reason that a brief passage in President
 Barack Obama ’s  State of the Union  address last month got so much
attention from business. Obama announced new talks on “a
comprehensive Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership
with the European Union.” He also said that to “boost American
exports, support American jobs and level the playing field in
the growing markets of  Asia , we intend to complete negotiations
on a Trans-Pacific Partnership.”  The two  announcements  have a number of smaller precedents,
which are quietly delivering real results. Last year, the
 Occupational Safety and Health Administration  harmonized its
hazard communication standard for  workplace safety  with the
requirements of many nations around the world -- a pro-trade
reform that is expected to save American businesses more than
$475 million annually. The U.S. and the EU have also entered
into an agreement under which organic products may be sold as
“organic” in both jurisdictions, so long as they have been so
certified by either one of them.  More ambitiously, the U.S. and  Canada  have created a joint
Regulatory Cooperation Council, which is carrying out a public
plan to ramp up regulatory cooperation, and thus to allow
companies to sell goods across the North American border without
facing independent requirements. (Disclosure: While serving
in the Obama administration, I was co-chairman of the council
from February 2011 to August 2012.)  The plan contains almost 30 initiatives, designed to
harmonize regulatory approaches in the near future. Among these
initiatives are common approaches to  food safety  (including
streamlined certification requirements for meat and poultry),
increased alignment of motor-vehicle safety standards,
coordinated emissions regulations for light-duty vehicles, and
development of joint approaches to regulation of nanomaterials.
With respect to fuel economy, the U.S. and Canada have already
converged on a  shared approach , saving money for producers and
consumers on both sides.  Last month, the U.S.-EU High Level Working Group on Jobs
and Growth emphasized the importance of enhanced compatibility
of regulations and standards, undertaken as part of the
comprehensive agreement on which talks are now beginning.  Europe 
is the leading U.S. trading partner, with more than $600 billion
in annual trade.  Aligning Requirements  An effort to align regulatory requirements could greatly
increase that figure and thus boost gross domestic product on
both sides. And if the rapidly growing Asian markets become more
open to American producers, the long-term  economic benefits 
would probably be extraordinary.  To be sure, the project of aligning regulatory standards
poses risks. No one should favor a system in which that project
leads to a systematic weakening of safeguards.  Alignment should not mean convergence on the weakest
standards for protecting safety, health and the environment. One
of the great promises of regulatory cooperation is that it can
promote information-sharing and  combat  a destructive
international race to the bottom, in the process protecting
people against genuine risks.  At the same time, regulatory alignment should not be
treated as a license for an unjustified increase in stringency.
Where the EU imposes unnecessarily expensive regulatory
controls, there should be serious consideration of U.S.-EU
convergence on more balanced approaches.  In some areas, of course, nations disagree on facts and
values, and such disagreements may be legitimate reasons for
divergences in regulatory approaches.  For far too long, however, such divergences have been the
product of a simple failure of consultation and coordination.
For businesses and consumers alike, efforts to harmonize
regulatory requirements could rank among the most significant
international initiatives of the coming years.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University
Professor at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist.
He is the former administrator of the White House Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and
author of “Simpler: The Future of Government,” to be published
in April. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 