-- Czech Inflation Slowest in 18 Months Amid Record-Long Slump
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-03-11T12:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/czech-inflation-slowest-in-18-months-amid-record-long-recession.html
Czech consumer prices rose at the
slowest pace in 18 months in February as the central bank
debates whether the longest economic recession on record
warrants more monetary-policy easing.  The  inflation rate  dropped to 1.7 percent from 1.9 percent
in January, the Czech Statistics Office in  Prague  said in a
statement today. The reading was less than the median forecast
of 1.8 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 18 analysts and below
the central bank’s 2 percent estimate for the month. Consumer
prices rose 0.1 percent on the month, the office said.  The $217 billion economy is suffering from weakening
domestic demand, with households and businesses spending less
due to government austerity measures and the euro area’s debt
crisis. After cutting  borrowing costs  three times last year to
effectively zero, the central bank is navigating uncharted
territory as Governor Miroslav Singer said the bank’s forecast
shows further policy easing will be probably needed this year.  “Demand inflation is non-existent in the Czech economy and
inflationary pressures aren’t coming from the labor market
either,” Jiri Skop, an economist at  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB)  in Prague
said, in an e-mail.  Fourth Contraction  The deviation from the central bank’s forecast was caused
mainly by a lower-than-expected increase in energy costs for
households, the central bank said in a statement on its website.
Food prices also rose at a slower pace than the bank had
forecast, it said.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for changes in indirect taxes, was 0.9 percent,
compared with 1.1 percent in January and below the central
bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target band.  “The published data signal a slight anti-inflationary risk
for the current CNB forecast,” the central bank said.  Gross domestic product  shrank 0.2 percent from the third
quarter of 2012, marking the fourth consecutive quarterly
decline, the Prague-based Czech Statistics Office said in a
final report today. The reading was in line with a flash
estimate published Feb. 14. Output fell 1.7 percent from the
final quarter of 2011, the steepest drop in three years.  ‘Deeper Weakening’  “The new data represent a risk toward somewhat deeper
weakening of economic activity,” the central bank said.  On a quarterly basis, gross fixed capital creation fell 3.8
percent, while foreign trade showed negative contribution as
exports fell more sharply than imports, the statistics office
said.  Household consumption rose 0.9 percent in the final three
months, the first quarterly increase last year. Household
spending fell 3.5 percent in the full year, the first decline
since 1998, according to the statistics office data.  “While we expect it to decline further this year, the pace
of the decline should be already much softer and we actually
expect household consumption to show a slight year-on-year
increase in the final quarter of 2013,” Radomir Jac, the chief
analyst at Generali PPF Asset Management in Prague said.  Koruna Weaker  The koruna weakened 0.6 percent to trade at 25.565 to the
euro as of 12:58 p.m. in Prague today. It has lost 4 percent
against  Europe ’s common currency since Sept. 17, a day before
Singer first said the central bank may use currency sales to
ease monetary conditions, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The central bank, which targets inflation, left the two-
week repurchase rate at 0.05 percent for a second meeting on
Feb. 6, almost three-quarters of a percentage point less than
the euro-area benchmark.  “All in all, we think that the Czech central bank will not
change its policy stance and will remain happy if the crown
remains at or even above the level of 25.50 versus the euro in
the weeks and months to come,” Jac said in e-mailed comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  