-- Dead-Pig Tide and the Ongoing Danger of China Epidemics
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-03-11T15:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/dead-pig-tide-and-the-ongoing-danger-of-china-epidemics.html
The dead pigs started appearing on
the riverbanks of  Shanghai ’s iconic Huangpu River on March 4,
and by the weekend, state media were reporting that 900 had been
found  floating  in the river, the source of much of the city’s
water supply. The reports didn’t offer an explanation for where
the dead pigs had come from or how they had died. Still, one
thing was absolutely certain in the articles and the social-media chatter: Nothing good comes from a dead-pig tide.  Early today, Shanghai Daily reported that the number of
dead pigs floating in the river had increased to  1,200 . Later in
the morning, the Global Times, a national paper, reported that
the number had  crossed  “at least 2,200” and was expected to
rise. By early evening, the government had  retrieved  3,323
carcasses from the river, with more still floating toward
downtown.  Most disturbing of all was news -- first reported by local
suburban papers and spread through microblogs -- that upstream
pig farms had been  struck  by an epidemic that had killed 20,000
pigs in January and February. According to these reports, as far
back as January, dead pigs were appearing on the sides of roads
in suburban Shanghai. News of the epidemic was partly  confirmed 
by state media today.  The  virus at work  isn’t transmittable to humans, but that’s
little reassurance to the 20 million Shanghai residents left to
wonder what effect virus-laden pigs have had on the water
supply. It’s a question intensified by the efforts of farmers,
if not officials, to cover up the epidemic that appears to have
caused the dead-pig tide.  Why, if there was a deadly epidemic among livestock outside
of Shanghai, was the public not notified? Where were the public-health officials when the disaster became so significant that
farmers presumably had no choice but to dump the carcasses in
the river that runs through taps all over the city?  For those who follow public health in  China , the timing of
this epidemic and likely coverup is particularly ironic, coming
at the 10th anniversary of the  SARS epidemic  that sickened
thousands, killed hundreds, and shut down Beijing and Hong Kong
for several months in the winter and spring of 2003. The
suspected cause of SARS was a  virus  transmitted by bats in south
China. The epidemic was blamed on government officials
 determined  to cover up a health disaster exploding on their
watch. By the time those officials, and the Communist Party
itself, acknowledged that there was a problem, it was too late:
The epidemic had crossed national borders and was killing
widely.  Over the past several weeks, Chinese news outlets have been
running  features  looking back on the mistakes made, lessons
learned and steps taken during SARS outbreak. They call for
increased monitoring, unspecified mechanisms for notifying the
public and relevant public-health institutions, and greater
transparency. Needless to say, whether it was the fault of
farmers or public-health officials, none of those standards were
met in the run-up to the dead-pig tide.  To be sure, this isn’t SARS, but for a global-health
community dependent upon Chinese transparency in the event of
another epidemic, official Chinese reticence, if not ignorance,
about whatever and whoever led to thousands of virus-laden pig
carcasses in Shanghai’s water supply is deeply worrying.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World
View blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on
Twitter.)
 