-- Icahn Reviewing Dell Books Amid Mounting LBO Opposition
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t
-- 2013-03-11T20:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/dell-lets-icahn-review-books-amid-mounting-lbo-opposition.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn  is reviewing
 Dell Inc. (DELL) ’s books as he pushes alternatives to a proposed $24.4
billion leveraged buyout of the personal computer maker that
faces mounting resistance from investors.  Icahn, who has amassed a stake in Dell and is urging the
company to pay a special dividend of $9 a share, said in a
statement today that he signed a confidentiality agreement with
Dell to examine information, without providing additional
detail.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment
beyond the public filing, and representatives for Icahn and
didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Dell’s board is seeking bids higher than the $13.65 a share
offer by Chief Executive Officer Michael Dell and Silver Lake
Management LLC to take the company private. The deal -- which
requires approval from a majority of shareholders excluding CEO
Dell -- has been opposed by shareholders including Southeastern
Asset Management Inc. and T. Rowe Price Group Inc., who have
said the price undervalues the company.  Icahn’s signing of a confidentiality agreement shows his
intention to stay involved in the transaction until he’s
guaranteed a profit, said  Anthony Michael Sabino , a professor at
John’s University’s Peter J. Tobin College of Business. He may
attempt his own takeover or support a third-party bidder.  Go-Shop Period  “This opens up a host of possibilities,” Sabino said in
an interview. “Dell is fully in play.”  Icahn said last week that he asked Dell’s board to pledge
that it will implement his dividend proposal if shareholders
reject the Michael Dell-led offer. Otherwise, Icahn said he will
start a proxy fight and seek to replace directors of the  Round
Rock , Texas-based company with his own candidates.  The so-called go-shop period for the company to seek higher
bids runs through March 22, and Dell said last week that it
welcomes Icahn and other parties to participate in that process.  By reviewing Dell’s records, Icahn ratchets up pressure on
 Michael Dell  to raise his bid, according to  Erik Gordon , a
business and law professor at the Stephen M. Ross School of
Business at the  University of Michigan  in Ann Arbor.  “It puts Icahn closer to being able to make a competing
bid, and it probably would cost Michael more to top an Icahn bid
than it would cost him to raise his own offer just enough to get
some of the big investors to support it,” Gordon said in an e-
mailed statement.  Dell  rose  1.5 percent to $14.37 at the close in New York,
signaling that investors anticipate a higher buyout offer. The
stock has advanced 42 percent this year, compared with a 9.1
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  