-- Deutsche Bank Sees PBOC Bill Sales as Inflows Jump: China Credit
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-03-11T04:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/deutsche-bank-sees-pboc-bill-sales-as-inflows-jump-china-credit.html
Inflows of capital into  China  are
swelling cash supplies and increasing inflation pressure,
prompting Deutsche Bank AG and GF Securities Co. to predict the
central bank will resume bill sales for the first time since
December 2011 next quarter.  The seven-day repurchase  rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, fell 195 basis points, or 1.95 percentage
point last week, to 2.49 percent in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It jumped 51 basis points to 3 percent today. The London
Interbank Offered Rate to borrow dollars for a week was
unchanged in the period at 0.17 percent. The yuan gained 0.14
percent to 6.2147 per dollar.  A rebound in the world’s second-biggest economy and zero
 interest rates  in developed nations drove record inflows into
yuan assets in January. Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for
“prudent” monetary policy in a speech to the parliament last
week, setting 2013’s target for  money supply  growth at 13
percent from 14 percent last year and for inflation at 3.5
percent from 4 percent.  “Clearly there have been strong capital inflows from the
start of this year,” said Linan Liu, a Hong Kong-based rates
strategist at Deutsche Bank. “In case of accelerated inflows,
the PBOC will have to take away excess liquidity through open-
market operations and keep money supply growth stable close to
the target.”  Policy makers may resume  bill sales  in early April, Liu
said.  ‘Key Consideration’  Yuan positions  at local lenders accumulated from sales of
foreign exchange to the central bank, an indication of cross-
border capital flows into China, rose to a record 684 billion
 yuan  ($110 billion) in January, official data showed on March 5.
The yuan strengthened to a 19-year high of 6.2124 per dollar on
Jan. 14.  Appreciation pressure was sustained last month. China’s
exports rose 21.8 percent in February from a year ago, customs
bureau data showed on March 8, beating the median estimate of
8.1 percent in a Bloomberg News survey and taking the  trade
surplus  to $15.3 billion.  Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note that companies may be overstating
exports and understating imports to move funds into China and
circumvent  capital controls .  “Inflows of funds are likely to be larger than 2012 and
will lead to more central bank interventions in the  currency
market , improving the liquidity in the money market,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist at Credit Agricole SA in Hong
Kong. “The inflows will become a key consideration for China in
monetary policy making. I expect larger-scale repos and bill
sales to drain liquidity. There is also an outside chance of a
reserve-ratio hike.”  Fund Withdrawals  The People’s Bank of China has  drained  a net 5 billion yuan
out of the financial system in each of the last two weeks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Withdrawals the
previous week amounted to a record 910 billion yuan, more than
double the previous high in Bloomberg data going back to March
2008, as repo auctions resumed after a weeklong Chinese New Year
holiday. It sold 5 billion yuan of 28-day repos on March 7.  Repurchase auctions may have been restarted because the
sharp rise in foreign-exchange purchases flooded the economy
with cash, according to a March 6 report by Ting Lu, Bank of
America’s China economist in Hong Kong, who predicts the PBOC
will keep the repo rate at around 3 to 3.5 percent.  Money Supply  PBOC Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said at the National People’s
Congress meeting in Beijing on March 5 that policy makers don’t
want the money supply to expand too quickly this year, as
indicated by the official target. China may need to raise
interest rates should gains in the consumer-price index stay at
more than 3.5 percent for three months,  Chen Dongqi , deputy head
of the National Development and Reform Commission’s
macroeconomic research institute, said on March 8 in Beijing.  Consumer-price gains accelerated to 3.2 percent in February
from 2 percent the previous month, higher than the 3 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Chinese banks handed out
1.07 trillion yuan of new loans in January, compared with 738
billion yuan a year earlier, official data show. Aggregate
financing, which includes non-bank lending, climbed 914 billion
yuan from December to a record 2.54 trillion yuan. New loans in
February totaled 620 billion yuan and aggregate financing
dropped to 1.07 trillion yuan, data showed yesterday.  ‘Adroit Management’  The nation is targeting economic growth of 7.5 percent this
year, the same as in 2012, Premier Wen said as the National
People’s Congress met on March 5. Gross domestic product rose
7.9 percent in the three months through December following 7.4
percent growth in the previous quarter.  “The PBOC is not likely to resume bill sales any time soon
but will clearly consider it as one tool to drain liquidity out
of the banking system as growth accelerates and credit expansion
continues, fueling inflation,” said Chen Qi, a Shanghai-based
strategist at UBS Securities Co.  Signs of an economic improvement have pushed up bond yields
and stock prices. The  benchmark yield  on 10-year  government
bonds  rose to 3.61 percent on Jan. 29, the highest since
November 2011, and ended last week at 3.58 percent. The Shanghai
Composite Index of shares has rallied 18 percent since Dec. 3,
when it recorded the lowest close since January 2009.  “If I’m right that we’ve seen the low in A-shares, I think
there will be more inflows,” said  Tim Condon , chief Asian
economist at ING Groep NV in  Singapore . “Adroit management by
the PBOC will be needed to avoid the yuan from becoming a one-
way appreciation bet. It will swell the interbank liquidity and
require more open-market operations.”  ‘Excess Liquidity’  The cost of insuring sovereign bonds using five-year
 credit-default swaps  fell four basis points last week to 61 in
 New York , after rising to as high as 146 in June, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  “The central bank may resume bill sales in the second
quarter to drain liquidity because first-half inflation may be
higher than expected,” said Xu Hanfei, head of fixed-income
research in Shanghai at GF Securities Co., the nation’s third-
biggest listed brokerage. “The PBOC will have to use bill sales
to prevent a return of excess liquidity as capital inflows
rise.” He predicts the inflation rate will reach as high as 3.5
percent in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  