-- Developing Asia’s Trade Financing Gap Threatens Growth, ADB Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-03-11T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/developing-asia-s-trade-financing-gap-threatens-growth-adb-says.html
Companies in developing  Asia  face
difficulties getting loans and guarantees for trade
transactions, hindering job creation and economic growth,
according to the  Asian Development Bank .  A survey of companies and banks by the lender last quarter
showed that about $425 billion of requests for financing for
import and exports transactions in developing Asia were rejected
in 2011. Globally, $1.6 trillion of proposed trade finance
wasn’t met, the report showed.  Poor payment records by correspondent banks, low country
ratings in  developing countries , and weak banking systems were
among reasons cited by the 106 banks surveyed for the shortfall,
the ADB said in a press statement. A 5 percent increase in trade
finance support would result in a 2 percent increase in both
production levels and staffing, according to the survey of 138
companies, the lender said.  “Dramatic shortfalls in meeting financing needs of
importing and exporting companies are exacting a huge toll on
 job creation  and economic growth in the region,” Steven Beck,
head of trade finance at the ADB, said in the statement. “These
trade finance gaps need to be addressed to give developing Asia
a boost to create jobs and alleviate poverty.”  The ADB said in July it will start supporting deals
denominated in the Indian rupee and Chinese  yuan  in addition to
those denominated in U.S. dollars, yen and euros, as it extends
its trade finance program to bolster regional commerce. The
Manila-based lender’s trade finance program supported $4 billion
in trade in 2012, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  