-- Dick’s Falls Most Since 2008 as Forecast Trails Estimates
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-03-11T20:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/dick-s-falls-as-forecast-is-less-than-analysts-estimates.html
Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS)  sank the
most since 2008 after forecasting annual profit that was less
than analysts estimated on costs to remodel stores and improve
its Web operations.  Shares of the largest U.S. sporting-goods chain slumped 11
percent to $45.11 at the close in  New York  for the steepest drop
since Nov. 11, 2008. Dick’s had  gained  11 percent this year
through March 8, compared with an 8.8 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Dick’s, amid competition from the Web and new retail
locations operated by brands like Nike Inc. and  Adidas AG (ADS) , will
increase investment in its stores and e-commerce channel to more
closely align the two, which retailers call an omni-channel
strategy. Those plans will help reduce annual earnings by 12
cents a share this year, according to a statement.  “It’s competitive if you have a bunch of stores with
physical goods, and you’re trying to compete with low prices and
free shipping,”  Sean McGowan , an analyst for Needham & Co. in
New York, said in an interview. “Omni-channel can become a
weapon,” said McGowan, who recommends buying the shares.  The plan also includes spending on remodeling some stores
to add shops dedicated to brands such as Nike, Adidas and  Under
Armour Inc. (UA)  It will also incorporate new store formats,
including an outdoor sports concept based around the Field &
Stream brand it bought last year. The first such location will
open in Pittsburgh in the third quarter, the company said on the
analyst call.  Doubling Stores  The retailer plans to open about 40 namesake stores this
year. The company, which also operates Golf Galaxy locations,
has 518 Dick’s stores in the U.S. and sees the potential for
doubling that to 1,100 without giving a time frame. The company
has many more stores in the eastern U.S. than the west.  “We see a significant opportunity ahead,” Chief Executive
Officer Edward Stack said on the call. “Over the next five
years, we plan to make meaningful investments to capture it.”  Profit in the current fiscal year may be $2.84 to $2.86 a
share, including the costs for the planned expansion, the
Coraopolis, Pennsylvania-based company, which ended its previous
fiscal year on Feb. 2, said today. Analysts projected $2.92, the
average of 29 estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The retailer estimated  same-store sales  will increase as
much as 3 percent this year after rising 4.3 percent in its
previous fiscal year.  Canceled Orders  Such sales grew 1.2 percent in the fourth quarter, while
declining 2.2 percent at Dick’s Sporting Goods stores. The
company decided to cancel some orders for cold-weather apparel
after warm temperatures in December for the second straight
year. The retailer then missed out on some sales when it got
colder in January, the company said on the call.  Sales of exercise equipment also dropped after  Lance Armstrong  admitted using performance-enhancing drugs during his
career, the company said. Equipment branded Livestrong, the
charity Armstrong founded, makes up more than 50 percent of its
treadmill and elliptical sales. After Armstrong’s admission,
demand fell and it’s now clearing inventory with price
reductions and has plans replace it with another brand, the
company said.  “People had a very negative reaction to the Livestrong
brand,” Stack said on the call.  Dick’s posted fourth-quarter profit of $129.7 million, or
$1.03 a share, from $111.1 million, or 88 cents, a year earlier.
Analysts estimated $1.06.  Foot Locker Inc. (FL) , the world’s largest athletic-shoe chain,
declined 7.1 percent on March 8 when it said same-store sales in
its current quarter had gained in the low-single digits so far
after increasing 7.9 percent in the previous quarter.  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,
the world’s largest sporting-goods maker,  reports  its third-
quarter results on March 21.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  