-- Dolphin Said to Bid for Bilderberg Resort in Greek Asset Sale
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2013-03-11T09:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/dolphin-said-to-bid-for-bilderberg-resort-in-greek-asset-sale.html
Dolphin Capital Investors Ltd. (DCI) 
plans to bid for the Astir Palace resort in  Athens  in a deal
that would mark the first outright sale of a property in the
country since the government started its asset disposal program
in 2011, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Dolphin, a developer of holiday resorts in southeast
Europe, will make an offer for the 120,000 square-meter (1.3
million square-foot) complex by March 19, according to the
person, who asked not to be identified because the bid hasn’t
been formally submitted. The company is registered in the
British Virgin Islands and its shares are  traded  in London.  Greece  is striving to attract foreign investment as the
economy faces its sixth straight year of contraction and an
 unemployment rate  that reached 27 percent in November. In 1993
and 2009, Astir Palace in Athens hosted the  Bilderberg 
conference, an invitation-only annual gathering of European and
American business and political leaders named after the hotel in
Holland where the first meeting took place in 1954.  The National Bank of Greece SA  and the  Hellenic Republic
Asset Development Fund , which own the property, put out an
international public  tender  on Jan. 16 as part of the
government’s 50 billion-euro ($67 billion) asset disposal
program. The complex includes three hotels, private beaches and
58 bungalows on the Vouliagmeni peninsula 25 kilometers (16
miles) from Venizelos International Airport.  A spokesman for Dolphin declined to comment on the matter.
The National  Bank of Greece (TELL)  and the asset fund didn’t
immediately respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 