-- Don’t Let Emotions Obscure Gun-Control Debate
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-03-11T22:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/don-t-let-emotions-obscure-gun-control-debate.html
A few weeks ago, a Democratic
 Colorado  state representative, Joe Salazar, worked his way into
trouble during a debate over gun laws. The specific issue is one
that has preoccupied Colorado for some time: Should people with
permits to carry concealed firearms be allowed to bring guns
into university buildings?  Arguing against those who think that women should be able
to carry guns to protect themselves from rapists, Salazar said
that campuses have call boxes and “safe zones,” and that women
are free to carry rape whistles. What  worried  Salazar was that a
woman who feared she was being followed by a rapist might
overreact dangerously: “If you feel like you’re going to be
raped, or if you feel like someone’s been following you around,
or you feel like you’re in trouble when you may actually not
be,” he said, a woman might “pop a round at somebody.”  Salazar’s record betrays no animus toward women. What he
dislikes is the idea that concealed guns represent one possible
answer to the problem of violent crime. And in his distaste for
individual armed self-defense, he is completely within his
party’s mainstream.  Several Republican state legislators challenged Salazar’s
views. One, Lori Saine,  said , “My daughter’s going to be going
off to college in about 10 years. I can’t imagine her only
option is going to be to outrun her attacker to a call box. I
think she’s going to be responsible enough to handle a gun.”  Protecting Yourself  Many liberals see Saine’s formula as madness. But there is
no proof that allowing licensed gun owners to carry concealed
weapons on campuses leads to trouble. At  Colorado State
University , in Fort Collins, the crime rate actually  declined 
after concealed-carry permit holders were allowed to bring
firearms onto campus. (Permit holders, who are typically granted
their licenses after being screened by state or local law-
enforcement agencies, by some estimates commit crimes at a lower
rate than the general population.)  Many schools that don’t allow concealed weapons issue
guidelines about how to confront “active shooters.” Some of them
border on the comical:  West Virginia University   recommends  that
students should “act with physical aggression and throw items at
the active shooter.” The university provides a  list  of “items”
that includes shoes, belts, mobile phones and iPods. Wichita
State University  recommends  that “if the person(s) is causing
death or serious physical injury to others and you are unable to
run or hide, you may choose to be compliant, play dead, or fight
for your life.” In offering such guidelines, universities are
admitting the obvious: They can’t guarantee the safety of their
students and faculty. And yet most refuse to allow for the
possibility that licensed and trained civilians can play a role
in their own protection.  James Alderden, the former sheriff of Larimer County, which
includes  Fort Collins , told me recently that “No one could show
me any study that concealed-carry leads to more crimes and more
violence. My idea of self-defense is not those red rape phones
on campus, where you get on the phone and tell someone you’re
getting raped.” Alderden supported concealed-carry while he was
sheriff because, he said, “I’m not going to violate a citizen’s
right to self-defense because someone else has an emotional
feeling about guns.”  Alderden touches on something important: The role of
emotion in the debate over guns. Many conservatives and Second
Amendment absolutists see licensing and background checks as
stalking horses for a government-mandated gun seizure and the
eventual imposition of tyranny. This kind of thinking is
hysterical. But many liberals see advocates of individual self-
defense as radical libertarians who care not at all for the
greater good, and therefore seek the forcible disarmament of
others, even those who use firearms responsibly. This represents
a profound misreading, and mistrust, of the public.  Gun Guys  One expert on the irrationality of the gun debate is Dan
Baum. A self-described liberal, Baum is also a “gun guy” -- the
name of his most recent book. In “Gun Guys,” Baum explains why
so many Americans feel compelled to arm themselves. Like me,
Baum is an advocate of universal background checks, and
stringent training and licensing. But he is also a critic of his
liberal friends who would deny others the right to self-defense,
simply because they’re uncomfortable around firearms.  “People on the left get the heebie-jeebies at the thought
of individuals being vigorous and empowered and capable enough
to use a gun,” he told me. After the mass shooting at a movie
theater in Aurora, Colorado, last July, “There was this sneering
on the left about the idea that things could have been better in
the theater if someone had shot back at the killer. Why wouldn’t
you want to have a gunfight in that theater? How could it have
been worse? These mass shooters don’t want a fight, they want to
kill. Someone firing back at him might have disrupted his
rhythm, it might have caused him to run away.”  I happen to agree with Baum -- I’d rather be caught in a
gunfight than in a massacre. This doesn’t mean I like the
 National Rifle Association . It simply means I think many
civilians can defend themselves. Alderden put it best when he
said: “Your position on concealed-carry permits has a lot to do
with your position on the reliability and sanity of your
fellow man.”  The recent debate in the U.S. over how to prevent mass
killings has obscured three facts. One, our country is
hopelessly saturated with guns. Two, new gun laws will only have
a marginal effect on the ability of violent people to arm
themselves. And three, most people who own guns are actually
quite careful, and quite sane.  (Jeffrey Goldberg is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Jeffrey Goldberg  at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 