-- Dubai Faces ‘Debt Wall’ With Uncertain Support, Moody’s Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-03-11T10:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/dubai-faces-debt-wall-with-uncertain-support-moody-s-says-1-.html
Dubai faces a “pivotal year” in
2014 as the emirate tackles $20 billion of debt amid an unclear
legal framework for restructurings and uncertain support from
its richer neighbor, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “Little progress has been made on clarifying and
strengthening the legal framework for insolvencies/debt
restructuring, while details of the Dubai government’s capacity
to support its government-related institutions remain
uncertain,” Moody’s said in a report titled “Dubai Corporates:
Modest Economic Growth Benefits Corporate Credit Quality, But
2014 Debt Wall Looms.” Next year “will be a pivotal year for
Dubai as $20 billion of direct government debt related to Dubai
World becomes due,” it said.  Dubai, which was on the brink of default in 2009 after a
spending binge to turn itself into a trade and tourism hub, has
about $17 billion of bonds and loans maturing in 2013 and 2014,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dubai’s neighbor  Abu
Dhabi  and its banks probably won’t provide direct support to the
city next year after the United Arab Emirates capital and the
central bank rescued Dubai from the crash with a $20 billion
dollar lifeline, according to Moody’s.  Budget Rationalization  Abu Dhabi’s potential reluctance to provide more support to
Dubai could be due to its “budget rationalization process that
affected public institutions as much as its core government-
related institutions,” Moody’s said. “This has enforced
stricter spending prudence for Abu Dhabi’s own economy and would
in that context make additional support for Dubai’s corporates
unlikely.”  The U.A.E.’s central bank in 2012 announced measures to cap
lending to state-run companies after the bailout.  Investors have sought exposure to Dubai’s economic recovery
after three state-related companies paid or refinanced $3.75
billion of debt in 2012, improving perceptions of the city’s
credit risk. Dubai in January raised $1.25 billion in 10-year
sukuk and its first 30-year bonds as it took advantage of
tumbling borrowing costs.  The cost of insuring Dubai’s debt for five years, which
receded more than peers last year, declined 8 basis points, or
0.08 percentage points, in 2013 to 217 on March 8, according to
data provider CMA. That compares with a 22 basis-point decline
for the cost of insuring Abu Dhabi’s debt for five years in the
same time period, the data show.  Not Concerned  Gross domestic product in Dubai may grow more than 4
percent this year, according to Sami Al Qamzi, director general
of Dubai Department of  Economic Development . Figures for the
first six months of 2012 point to growth of 4.1 percent for the
full year, he said last month. The city isn’t concerned about
refinancing outstanding debt, Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed  Al Maktoum ,
the head of Dubai’s Supreme Fiscal Policy, said in November.  Dubai is set to continue benefiting from “modest” growth
of about 5 to 6 percent in G20 emerging economies as well as
higher crude  oil prices , Moody’s said. Gulf Arab oil exporters,
including the U.A.E., supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  More companies are expected to extend maturities on debt,
diversify and seek medium-term refinancing after Dubai
Electricity & Water Authority, the state-owned utility seeking
funds to pay debt due this year, raised $1 billion, Moody’s
said.  “It’s likely that Dubai will grow out of the problem,”
Moody’s said. “We believe that the government of Dubai along
with its Abu Dhabi lenders will find an amicable solution such
as an extension of the debt so that it will not create any
liquidity pressure on Dubai.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  