-- Edwards’ Sapien Device as Effective as Open Heart Surgery
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-11T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/edwards-sapien-device-as-effective-as-open-heart-surgery.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) ’s Sapien
device, inserted into the heart via a catheter to fix a diseased
aortic valve, is as safe and effective as open heart surgery for
as long as three years, researchers said.  The study presented at the  American College of Cardiology 
meeting in San Francisco provides reassuring data about the
device approved in the U.S. in October as the first alternative
to traditional surgery. The trial, dubbed Partner, found 44.8
percent of surgery patients died within three years, compared
with 44.2 percent of Sapien patients.  The study also produced favorable results for one of the
most-feared complications from inserting the device: strokes.
While the risk of stroke was almost double with the Sapien valve
after the first year, the danger evened out over time. After
three years, 8.2 percent of Sapien patients suffered a stroke,
compared with 9.3 percent of the open-heart surgery patients.  “In these first-generation transcatheter procedures, we
have equivalent midterm outcomes” between Sapien and the gold-
standard surgical approach, said lead researcher Vinod Thourani,
co-director of the Structural Heart and Valve Center at Emory
University School of Medicine in Atlanta. “At three years the
surgery group’s stroke rate has caught up with and slightly
surpassed” the Sapien rate, though the difference wasn’t
significant, Thourani said in a statement.  Potential Danger  The risk of potentially harmful leakage around the device
was significantly higher among the patients getting Sapien. An
earlier analysis found patients with even mild rates of leakage
had a significantly increased risk of dying, underscoring the
need for improving the technology, Thourani said.  The devices are a “huge step forward” for treating
damaged aortic valves, particularly for patients who might not
fare well after standard open heart surgery, said  Patrick
O’Gara , director of clinical cardiology at Brigham and Women’s
Hospital and professor at Harvard Medical School in  Boston . More
information is needed about how well the valves hold up over
time, since those sewn into the heart to replace the aortic
valve during standard surgery can last for decades, he said.  “As a community we remain appropriately concerned about
some of the obstacles that need to be overcome before it can be
applied to lower and lower risk patients,” O’Gara said. “Three
years is a short period of time over which to make assessments
about structural valve deterioration.”  The study itself will enhance doctor’s conversations with
their patients and families, enabling them to discuss how the
last few years of the patient’s lives will be lived, O’Gara
said. The risks and benefits of each approach are becoming
clearer, providing valuable information for comparison, he said.  “I don’t think anyone ever envisioned that these devices
would be perfect and risk free,” he said. “After all, these
are pretty sick patients with lots of reason for which things
could go bad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  