-- Egypt’s Budget Less Transparent Than Mubarak Era, Survey Shows
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-03-11T13:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/egypt-s-budget-less-transparent-than-mubarak-era-survey-shows.html
Egypt’s budget became less
transparent after the 2011 uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak ,
as successive governments made fewer documents available to the
public, according to a survey.  The North African country scored 13 out of 100 in the 2012
survey, down from 49 in 2010, the Washington-based International
Budget Partnership said in a  report on its website . That places
Egypt in the bottom one-fifth of the 100 nations surveyed, below
Nigeria, Lebanon and Jordan.  “The government provides the public with scant information
on the national government’s budget and financial activities,”
the group said in the report. “This makes it challenging for
citizens to hold the government accountable for its management
of the public’s money.”  Egypt is seeking a $4.8 billion loan from the International
Monetary Fund to plug a budget deficit that reached 10.8 percent
of gross domestic product, or GDP, last year, according to
official figures. The government is seeking to cut spending,
especially on fuel subsidies, and raise taxes to cap this year’s
deficit at 10.9 percent of GDP and then reduce it to 9.5 percent
next year, according to an economic plan linked to the IMF loan.  The widening deficit accompanies a plunge in foreign
reserves and a slump in  economic output  as tourists and
investors shunned Egypt amid recurring political tensions after
Mubarak’s fall. The country’s benchmark dollar bonds plunged
today, sending yields to 7.27 percent at 3 p.m. in Cairo, the
highest since June.  Document Release  The IMF has often required borrower countries to make their
budgets more transparent.  The Partnership’s survey looks at whether eight key budget
documents are made available to the public. In Egypt, only three
were published, down from five in the 2010 assessment, the group
said. The latest survey was researched in the second half of
2011 when an army-backed government was in power.  The International Budget Partnership works with local
groups around the world to advocate more transparent budgets,
saying they are central to improving governance and reducing
poverty.  In  Egypt  its partner was the Cairo-based Egyptian
Initiative for Personal Rights, which said on its website that
it sent the draft findings to the Egyptian government for
comment before they were published.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  