-- Telecom Italia Unions Seek to Block Call-Center Unit Split
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-03-12T08:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/telecom-italia-unions-seek-to-block-call-center-unit-separation.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , the biggest
Italian phone company, started final negotiations yesterday with
unions about a plan to cut 2,750 jobs, or more than 5 percent of
its domestic workforce, by 2014.  Telecom Italia is planning so-called solidarity contracts,
revising the conditions of 30,000 employees. That’s the entire
Italian workforce excluding Open Access, a division established
in 2008 to guarantee Telecom Italia’s competitors equal access
to its fixed networks. Unions oppose the creation of a new
company containing all 12,000 call-center employees.  “We will accept solidarity contracts only if Telecom
Italia reverse its plan to establish a new call-center company
that could later be sold,” said Riccardo Saccone, an official
at union Slc-Cgil. A representative of the Milan-based company
declined to comment.  Phone companies across  Europe  have made job cuts as the
sovereign debt crisis hurt demand. Vodafone Group Plc announced
a plan this month to eliminate 700 positions in  Italy . Last
year, Deutsche Telekom AG began a reduction of its
administrative workforce in Bonn by 1,300 through 2015. It was
reviewing additional job cuts in December, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  has
also been shrinking its workforce.  Telecom Italia shares  rose 1.4 percent to 59 euro cents at
9:54 a.m. in Milan trading, paring the decline to 14 percent
this year.  Outsourcing Revenue  Last October, Telefonica, a Telecom Italia shareholder,
sold its Atento call-center division to Bain Capital Partners
LLC. The transaction gave Atento an enterprise value of more
than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) and helped Madrid-based
Telefonica offload almost half of its workforce. Italian unions
are concerned that Telecom Italia could do the same with its
call-center services.  Outsourcing Italian  call centers  generated 1 billion euros
in revenue last year and those operations employed more than
80,000 people, according to call-center trade association
Assocontact.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  