-- Employment Index in U.S. Climbed in February by Most in a Year
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-03-11T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/employment-index-in-u-s-climbed-in-february-by-most-in-a-year.html
A measure of job prospects in the
U.S. climbed in February by the most in a year, showing a
strengthening labor market.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index increased
1.1 percent to 111.14 from the prior month’s revised reading of
109.93 that was higher than initially reported, the New York-
based private research group said today. The measure advanced
3.2 percent from February 2012.  The gauge “is signaling an improving employment
environment,”  Gad Levanon , director of macroeconomic research
at the Conference Board, said today in a statement. Still,
budget cuts by the federal government are “likely to slow the
pace of  job creation  in the near term,” he said.  Today’s report follows Labor Department figures released
last week showing U.S. job growth surged in February as
builders, health care providers and retailers pushed the
 unemployment rate  to a four-year low.  Employers added 236,000 last month after a revised 119,000
gain in January that was smaller than first estimated, Labor
Department data showed March 8. The jobless rate dropped to 7.7
percent, the lowest since December 2008, from 7.9 percent.  The Employment Trends Index aggregates eight labor-market
indicators to forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, it
can signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months before
the fact and can predict job declines six to nine months in
advance, the Conference Board said.  Improvements in seven of the index’s eight components
contributed to the gain in the overall gauge, today’s report
showed. These included a larger share of firms with positions
they’re not able to fill right now, a gain in the hiring of
temporary workers, more job openings and fewer jobless claims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  