-- EU Hits China With Anti-Subsidy Tariffs for Second Time
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-03-11T16:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/eu-hits-china-with-anti-subsidy-tariffs-for-second-time.html
The European Union imposed tariffs
against  China  to counter subsidies for the second time,
targeting Chinese steel in a bid to help EU producers such as
 ArcelorMittal. (MT)   The EU duties as high as 44.7 percent punish Chinese
exporters of organic coated steel, used in construction and
domestic appliances, for receiving trade-distorting government
aid.  Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. (600005)  and  Angang Steel Co. (000898)  are among the
companies facing the new five-year import levies.  Most of the EU’s punitive tariffs are aimed at Chinese
exporters for selling goods in  Europe  below cost, a practice
known as  dumping . The EU today also turned provisional anti-
dumping duties on Chinese organic coated steel into five-year
measures while lowering the rates, in some cases to zero.  European organic coated steel manufacturers that also
include  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and  Voestalpine AG (VOE)  suffered “material
injury” as a result of subsidies to Chinese competitors and
dumping by them, the 27-nation EU said in two decisions in
Brussels. The five-year levies against subsidies and dumping
will take effect after being published in the EU  Official
Journal  by March 22.  The EU has opened a new front in the battle to protect
European manufacturers from Chinese rivals by scrutinizing
alleged unfair government aid to them. In May 2011, the EU
imposed anti-subsidy tariffs against China for the first time by
taxing imports of paper with levies as high as 12 percent. In
two separate investigations, the bloc is threatening to slap
anti-subsidy duties on bicycles and solar panels from China.  Market Share  Chinese organic coated steel exporters that also include
Inner Mongolia  Baotou Steel Union (600010)  Co. increased their combined
share of the EU market to 14.6 percent in the 12 months through
September 2011 from 9.1 percent in 2008, according to the bloc.
European consumption of this type of steel shrank 7 percent over
the period, the EU said.  The anti-subsidy levies on Chinese organic coated steel are
the outcome of an inquiry that the EU opened in February 2012
after a complaint by European steel industry association Eurofer
on behalf of companies that account for more than 70 percent of
the bloc’s output of the product.  That came on top of an EU dumping probe begun in December
2011. As a preliminary outcome of this investigation, the EU in
September introduced provisional anti-dumping duties as high as
57.8 percent on organic coated steel from China. The bloc
applied no provisional measures in the parallel subsidy case.  Lower Levies  The anti-subsidy duties range from 13.7 percent to 44.7
percent. Wuhan Iron & Steel, Angang Steel and Inner Mongolia
Baotou Steel Union each face a 26.8 percent duty. Producers such
as  Baoshan Iron & Steel (600019)  Co. and  Xinyu Iron & Steel (600782)  Co. face the
maximum levy of 44.7 percent.  With the start of the anti-subsidy protection, the EU is
reducing the rates of the anti-dumping duties introduced six
months ago.  The five-year anti-dumping duties are no higher than 26.1
percent compared with a preliminary maximum levy of 57.8
percent. Wuhan Iron & Steel, Angang Steel and Inner Mongolia
Baotou Steel Union each face a five-year rate of 16.2 percent,
down from a provisional levy of 42.5 percent.  Baoshan Iron & Steel and Xinyu Iron & Steel each face a
zero levy compared with a provisional rate of 42.5 percent.  In a third trade decision today against China, the EU
imposed anti-dumping duties for five years on aluminum foil in
low-weight rolls to curb competition for German, French and
other European producers. This decision will take effect after
publication in the Official Journal by March 19.  The levies as high as 35.6 percent cover aluminum foil in
rolls that don’t exceed 10 kilograms (22 pounds) -- a type used
for consumer packaging -- and follow EU anti-dumping duties
imposed for five years in 2009 on heavier rolls from China.  The duties on the low-weight rolls range from 14.2 percent
to 35.6 percent, depending on the Chinese company. That compares
with provisional anti-dumping duties on the wrapping introduced
on Sept. 18 that ranged from 13 percent to 35.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  