-- Europe’s Accounting Rules Are Destroying Its Banks
-- B y   G o r d o n   K e r r
-- 2013-03-11T22:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/europe-s-accounting-rules-are-destroying-its-banks.html
Late last year, a group of
institutional investors sent a letter to officials in Brussels,
warning that European Union accounting standards are
“destabilizing banks” and “damaging national economies.”  Accountancy may rhyme with geeky, but the investors were
right and addressing the issue they highlighted is essential to
restoring  Europe ’s financial health.  The European Commission officials were sufficiently worried
by the U.K. investors’ charge -- namely that because of EU
accounting rules, banks may have systematically overstated their
assets and distributed nonexistent profits as dividends and
bonuses -- that they said they would open an inquiry. Last week,
the board that administers the rules put forward its own
proposals. These are likely to perpetuate, not fix, the problem.  The rules concerned are called the International Financial
Reporting Standards, and they’re used across the EU and in a
growing number of other countries around the world. The
potential misreporting involved is significant. In the case of
just one U.K. bank, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, I and
others calculated that IFRS rules resulted in the bank
understating its 2011 losses by 19.5 billion pounds, or roughly
twice the U.K. taxpayer bill for the 2012  Olympic Games .  Deceptive Flattery  If this is correct, then the state’s 45.5 billion-pound
($67.7 billion) bailout of RBS in 2008 and 2009 was calculated
against a balance sheet that probably also flattered to deceive.
The risk of such faulty numbers is clear: If RBS fails to recoup
this hole in its accounts through genuine profits, then the U.K.
taxpayer may be on the hook for about 20 billion pounds more
than the government bargained for. Last week, RBS reported a
larger than expected loss in 2012 of slightly less than 6
billion pounds.  Like the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,
better known as GAAP, Europe’s accounting standards are detailed
guidelines for the presentation of financial information. Just
as governments publish manuals on how to drive a car safely, so
they have encouraged the production of accounting guidelines for
financial reporting.  The legal impact of the guidelines differs widely in the
two scenarios, however. Driver’s manuals are nothing more than
that, manuals, which no court would substitute for the law. If a
driver starts to brake at the correct distance from a stop sign,
but still fails to stop, it is no defense to have followed the
manual -- he or she broke the law. Under European accounting
law, following IFRS standards is a defense and the guidelines
have been allowed to  override  national laws.  The rule that concerns investors the most restricts
provisioning against expected future loan losses. Under IFRS,
loss provisions can only be booked (thus reducing this year’s
profits) if a loan event, such as a default, has occurred. The
U.S. rule makers who oversee GAAP have refused to follow the
IFRS in this. Talks aimed at converging U.S. and EU expected-
loan-loss accounting rules  ended  without result last July.  It is misleading to shareholders and dangerous for the
banking system if commercial banks can declare a profit when
they expect a loss, as it perversely incentivizes bank
executives to wreck their banks. This is because bank executives
tend to prioritize short-term risks and rewards: If they know
that any negative outcome of a loan decision can be parked in
the blue yonder, delaying ill effects on the bank’s performance
and bonus pool, they will be more likely to ignore the risks and
make the deal.  Prudent Accounting  U.K. law deals with this issue in sections of the Companies
Act, called the capital maintenance rules, which require that
directors prepare “true and fair” accounts, guided by the
conservative principle of “prudence.” This approach means that
banks should report the value of each loan at the lower of
either its original cost or current market value. Because of
IFRS, however, this part of the Companies Act isn’t enforced.  Equally dangerous is the effect on regulators. Working with
accounts that underreport losses damages their ability to
accurately assess the capital adequacy and stability of banks’
balance sheets.  British lawmaker  Steve Baker , who in 2011 submitted draft
legislation to the U.K. Parliament to repeal the IFRS rules,
puts the problem  succinctly : “IFRS create a death spiral. Banks
silently destroy their capital under the guise of profit, then
they require taxpayer support, then the process starts again.”  Defenders of IFRS say that these rules promote neutrality
and objectivity -- after all, if you estimate future losses for
reporting purposes, why not future profits, too? They say the
rules were changed to prevent “smoothing,” in which companies
would time the recognition of income in order to create an
artificially steady stream of profits. But surely smoothed
profit streams cost shareholders and, in the case of a bailed-
out bank, taxpayers less than exaggerated ones? Besides, profit
smoothing was always illegal so long as laws  were enforced .  What really changed in 2005, when the U.K. amended its laws
to give banks the option to prepare accounts under IFRS rules,
was that underprovisioning for losses became compulsory.  The evidence that revealed RBS’s Olympic-scale
overvaluation came from the accounts of the U.K.’s bad-bank
insurer, for which IFRS has different accounting rules. Unlike
banks, insurers are required to value their assets and
liabilities, taking into account probable future losses. This
reporting difference highlighted the almost 20 billion-pound
discrepancy in RBS’s 2011 accounts that the two sets of
accounting rules produced.  Scrutiny Needed  Let’s hope that the European Commission will scrutinize the
IFRS standards closely -- it won’t be easy. The  International
Accounting Standards Board , which drew up the rules, doesn’t
appear to accept the gravity of the problem. At a meeting last
year, I explained to three senior board officials why profits
calculated under the current rules aren’t safe for distribution.
The officials acknowledged the problem, saying that banks should
maintain two profit calculations, one for reporting to
shareholders, and the other -- not following IFRS rules -- to
determine distributions to  shareholders . Surely this is false
accounting?  Now the IASB has proposed a fix for the problem,
recognizing that the delayed recognition of expected losses has
proved “a weakness” during the financial crisis. Yet their
 proposed solution  is to add more micro-rules that define the
specific situations in which banks should be allowed to declare
an impairment and book losses.  This approach is fundamentally wrong. The IFRS rules are
the problem, because they interfere with enforcement of the law.
Banks should decide when to provision for a loss, and the full
force of the Companies Act should be used to punish them if they
do so dishonestly. More detailed standards will just encourage
more manipulation of them.  (Gordon Kerr is the founder of Cobden Partners and the
author of “The Law of Opposites: Illusory Profits in the
Financial Sector.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Gordon Kerr at  gkerr@cobdenpartners.co.uk .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 