-- European Stocks Fall From 4 1/2-Year High on Italy Cut
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-03-11T17:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/european-stock-futures-little-changed-asian-shares-gain.html
European stocks  fell from a 4 1/2-
year high as  Fitch Ratings  downgraded  Italy  and  China ’s retail
sales and industrial output missed forecasts.  Storebrand ASA slumped 6.6 percent after  Norway ’s second-
largest insurer said it must set aside money to meet stricter
rules on group pension plans.  OMV (OMV)  AG and ICAP Plc dropped more
than 1.5 percent as analysts downgraded the shares.  Ladbrokes
Plc (LAD)  jumped the most in 11 months after signing a deal with
Playtech Ltd. to develop its Web business.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped 0.1 percent to 295.26 at
the close of trading. The gauge has still surged 5.6 percent
this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget and
optimism grew that central banks around the world will continue
stimulus measures to support the economic recovery.  “The downgrade in Italy will lead to some nervousness that
more intervention will be needed, especially as it is clear that
Cyprus also needs a bail out.” Felicity Smith, a London-based
 fund manager  at Bedlam Asset Management Plc, which oversees
about $500 million, wrote in an e-mail. “Ultimately, Germany
will be the main contributor to the cost of this. I just see
today’s downgrade as a bit of realism returning to the market,
rather than a reason to panic.”  The Stoxx 600 rallied 2.3 percent last week, the biggest
advance in two months, as employers in the U.S. increased
payrolls more than forecast and optimism mounted that central
banks will continue to stimulate their economies. The index
closed at the highest level since June 2008.  Volume Declines  National benchmark indexes fell in 10 of the 18 western
European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 slipped 0.1 percent, while the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 0.3 percent.  Germany ’s DAX was little
changed. The number of shares changing hands in companies listed
on the Stoxx 600 was 25 percent lower than the 30-day average
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fitch cut Italy’s credit rating by one level after the
close of equity markets on March 8, as last month’s election
produced political paralysis that threatens the country’s
ability to respond to a recession and the  European debt crisis .  The rating company lowered Italy’s government bond rating
to BBB+ from A- with a negative outlook. That’s three levels
above junk and one higher than  Spain , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The Italian downgrade has taken some of the wind out of
the market’s sails, reminding investors that the European
situation remains largely unresolved,”  Richard Hunter , head of
U.K. equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in  London , wrote in an
e-mail.  European Union leaders will meet for a March 14-15 summit
in Brussels to discuss financial-rescue terms for Cyprus,
including the island nation’s debt sustainability and possibly
imposing losses on depositors.  China Economy  In China, retail sales increased 12.3 percent in the first
two months of 2013 from a year earlier and industrial production
rose 9.9 percent, the National Bureau of Statistics said. Both
numbers trailed economists’ estimates.  French  industrial production  fell in January as Europe’s
second-largest economy teetered on the brink of its third
recession in four years. Output dropped 1.2 percent from
December, more than the 0.2 percent decline forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Storebrand (STB)  slid 1.78 kroner to 25.23 kroner as stricter
pension rules will require the insurer to set aside as much as
11.5 billion kroner ($2 billion). Life insurance providers in
Norway must boost premiums and reserves to meet an increase in
 life expectancy , the Financial Supervisory Authority said on
March 8.  DNB ASA, Norway’s biggest lender, lost 2.4 percent to 90.3
kroner after saying the rules will hurt financial performance.  OMV Downgrade  OMV, central Europe’s biggest oil company, declined 1.9
percent to 34.43 euros in Vienna as SocGen downgraded the stock
to hold from buy.  ICAP, the world’s largest broker of transactions between
banks, lost 3.6 percent to 330.2 pence as UBS AG cut the shares
to sell from neutral.  Sage Group Plc slipped 2.2 percent to 341.9 pence as Bank
of America Corp. lowered its recommendation to underperform, the
equivalent of a sell rating, from neutral and added the software
maker to its least preferred technology stocks. Sage faces a
reluctance from companies to adopt cloud computing and rising
competition from SAP AG, Bank of America wrote.  Atlantia SpA (ATL)  fell 3.5 percent to 12.30 euros and Gemina SpA
tumbled 6.1 percent to 1.30 euros. Italy’s largest toll-highway
operator will pay one share for every nine shares of Gemina,
which runs  Rome ’s airports, in a takeover deal that involves no
cash, according to a statement released after the close of
trading on March 8.  Ladbrokes Gains  Ladbrokes surged 6.5 percent to 239.8 pence, the biggest
jump since April 2012, after the U.K. operator of more than
2,000 betting shops said Playtech will help develop and expand
its digital business. Playtech rose 3.4 percent to 570 pence.  888 Holdings Plc gained 5.2 percent to 166.75 pence as the
online gambling company announced a plan to start a division,
called All American Poker Network, to introduce its brands into
the U.S. market.  Nordex SE soared 15 percent to 4.43 euros, its biggest
rally in two years. The German wind-turbine maker reported
earnings before interest and taxes of 14 million euros ($18.2
million), compared with the 10.5 million-euro average analyst
estimate in a Bloomberg survey, and raised its sales outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  