-- Evonik Owners Sell 4.6% Stake to Temasek Ahead of Fourth IPO Try
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-03-11T11:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/evonik-owners-sell-4-6-stake-to-temasek-ahead-of-fourth-ipo-try.html
Evonik Industries AG’s owners have
agreed to sell a 4.6 percent stake in the German chemical maker
to Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte ahead of a fourth attempt at
an initial public offering.  The state-owned  investment company  worked with HSBC
Holdings Plc on the transaction, said a person with knowledge of
the situation who asked not to be identified. Temasek spokesman
 Stephen Forshaw  confirmed the sale, though declined to give more
details. WirtschaftsWoche reported Temasek paid 600 million
euros ($780 million) for a 5 percent stake.  The purchase reflects Temasek’s strategy to have industrial
and consumer investments in areas from chemicals used in
cosmetics to department stores. The sovereign wealth fund is
among 15 investors buying almost one-third of a CVC Capital
Partners Ltd.-led offering of PT Matahari Department Store
shares, said a person familiar with the deal today.  Evonik’s owners, RAG-Stiftung and CVC Capital Partners Ltd,
are selling less than 10 percent of their combined holdings in a
private transaction to broaden the investor base and highlight
potential interest in the company. The deals value Evonik at
about 14 billion euros, according to a person with knowledge of
the transaction at the time.  Both partners sold an equal amount in the private
placement. The purchase price was above the indicative offers
received for the company in June’s listing attempt and is in
line with the valuation of specialty chemical peers, Evonik said
in February. Both local and international investors took part in
the sale, advised by MainFirst Bank AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in  Singapore  at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  