-- Ex-Futures Trader Gets 4 Years for Using Insider Tips
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-03-11T15:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/ex-futures-trader-gets-4-years-for-using-insider-tips.html
A self-employed London trader was
sentenced to four years in prison after being convicted of
making 692,644 pounds ($1 million) spread-betting with inside
tips he received about forthcoming mergers.  Richard Joseph was found guilty on all counts by a jury in
London today and sentenced to four years in prison, said  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the Financial Services Authority.
Joseph was accused of trading on information he received from
Ersin Mustafa, who worked in the print room at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s Cazenove unit.  “It is plain to me that you knew precisely what you were
doing,” Judge Jeffrey Pegden said when giving the sentence.  Joseph made payments of more than 268,000 pounds to
Mustafa, who also passed on tips from his brother, Ali, who
worked in the print room at  UBS AG (UBSN) , prosecutors said.  Joseph’s case was related to the FSA’s Operation Saturn,
which led to the arrests of eight men at the height of the
financial crisis in 2008 as the regulator was under fire for
failing to do enough to combat market abuse. Six people,
including Ali Mustafa, were found guilty at a separate trial
last year. Ersin Mustafa fled the U.K. in December 2009 and the
regulator believes he is in Northern Cyprus.  “For a time he no doubt thought this was easy money,” FSA
director of enforcement Tracey McDermott said in a statement
after Joseph’s sentencing. “This verdict should send a clear
message about the consequences to anyone else who might be
tempted to do the same.”  Fiberweb, Expro  Joseph, who worked for himself since the summer of 2000,
was charged with conspiring to trade on shares of Abbot Group
Ltd.,  Fiberweb Plc (FWEB) , IMI Plc, Expro International Group Plc,
Greene King Plc and Aero Inventory Plc, based on the inside
information between September 2007 and July 2008.  Joseph pleaded not guilty to six charges of conspiracy to
commit  insider trading . He had worked in the finance industry in
London in the late 1990s, for London Capital Group Holdings Plc,
an online-trading firm, and International Clearing Associates
(London) Ltd.  The second firm, a futures-trading company, collapsed in
2000 after being shut down by regulators for not having enough
financial resources.  Joseph, who was born in London, worked as a broker until
1999, when he began trading German  government bonds . He
testified during the trial that he was self-taught.  ‘Less Fun’  He stopped trading in 2007 because “the market dynamics
changed and it became harder and harder to predict and it became
less fun,” he said. By the time he retired, he was in his late
30s and had 3.5 million pounds in the bank, he said.  He met Mustafa in late 2007 at a friend’s wedding. They
later met up against at a bar in  London ’s financial district,
where Mustafa tried to get Joseph to invest in a property
development in Cyprus, then gave him a stock tip.  “He said he knows people in the city and they give him
tips on stocks and shares,” said Joseph, who had never traded
shares before. “It was all about his contacts, he didn’t say he
knew anything about stocks or who his contacts were.”  Joseph didn’t act on the first tip, but he saw that the
shares did go up. The second time they met, Mustafa gave him
another tip. This time, Joseph traded on it, and lost money. The
following time, he made a gain, he said.  Trading on the tips from Mustafa, Joseph regularly had
trading exposure of more than a million pounds, and once as much
as 3 million pounds, the FSA said at trial.  The FSA arrested Joseph in May 2010. At the time, he gave a
written statement to investigators denying he received inside
information. He told regulators he met Mustafa in 2007 and “may
have” discussed securities with him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  