-- Ex-Galleon Trader Zvi Goffer Seeks Reduced Prison Term
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-03-11T16:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/ex-galleon-trader-zvi-goffer-seeks-reduced-prison-term.html
Zvi Goffer, a former Galleon Group
LLC trader whose 10-year prison term is the third-longest
sentence in a recent federal crackdown on illegal  insider
trading , asked an appeals court to reduce his sentence.  Goffer, 36, is one of dozens of traders, executives and
lawyers convicted in a wide-ranging U.S. attack on illegal
trading on  Wall Street . He was convicted at a 2011 trial of
trading on tips from junior lawyers at Ropes & Gray LLP and has
spent the last 16 months at a prison camp in Lewisburg,
 Pennsylvania .  Defense lawyer Alexander Dudelson today told the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in  Manhattan  that Goffer’s 10-year term is illegal
because it is “disproportionate” to other insider-trading
sentences. Judges voiced skepticism about the argument.  “He paid kickbacks,” U.S. Court of Appeals Judge Richard Wesley told the lawyer. “Mr. Goffer was the center of this.”  Goffer was convicted of 14 counts of conspiracy and
securities fraud for using information leaked by two Ropes &
Gray lawyers to trade on shares including 3Com Corp. Prosecutors
said he and others to whom he passed the information earned $10
million. The defense said most of the profits were pocketed by
another trader, Craig Drimal, who earned $6.2 million.  At the trial, prosecutors said Goffer, then working as a
trader at New York-based Schottenfeld Group LLC, used the tips
to impress Galleon co-founder Raj Rajaratnam and land a job at
the firm. Goffer started Incremental Capital LLC after he was
fired from Galleon.  Rajaratnam, Gupta  In court today, Goffer’s lawyer compared his 10-year term
to the 11 years received by Rajaratnam after he was convicted of
leading a $50 million insider scheme. Dudelson reminded the
three-judge panel that  Rajat Gupta , a former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. director convicted of insider trading last year, got two
years.  U.S. Circuit Court Judge  John Walker  suggested that a two-
year term for a 64-year-old, like Gupta, might be comparable to
a 10-year-term for a younger man.  Prosecutors argued in court papers that Goffer’s sentence
was below recommended federal guidelines by one month and that
he, unlike other insider traders, didn’t plead guilty and accept
responsibility for his crime. Doing so generally entitles a
defendant to a reduced sentence.  “Goffer planned, organized and initiated the scheme,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish wrote in a legal brief.
“Goffer set up an entire criminal infrastructure for insider
trading activity; carried out that activity for a period of more
than a year; and paid cash bribes to lawyers.”  Goffer is raising other legal arguments challenging the
conviction itself. The appeals court didn’t rule.  ‘Zero Evidence’  Goffer was tried with his brother, Emanuel, and another
trader, Michael Kimelman. Both were convicted. Emanuel Goffer
didn’t appeal. Kimelman, who was recently released from prison
after serving a 30-month sentence, is appealing his securities
fraud conviction but not his conspiracy conviction.  Defense attorney  Michael Sommer  said the government
secretly recorded hundreds of wiretaps of Kimelman’s phone calls
and came away with “zero evidence” that he traded illegally.
Fish said other evidence pointed to his guilt.  Drimal, who pleaded guilty and received a 66-month term, is
also appealing his sentence. His lawyer didn’t argue in court
today. The two Ropes & Gray lawyers, one of whom cooperated with
prosecutors, also pleaded guilty.  In a New Jersey case unrelated to the Galleon probe, lawyer
 Matthew Kluger  was sentenced to 12 years in prison for stealing
information about corporate mergers from four law firms and
passing it to a friend, who in turn gave it to a stock trader.
That 17-year scheme earned $37 million in profits.  Forfeiture  Goffer may already have won part of his appeal because of a
change in how forfeitures are calculated. In addition to the 10-
year term, U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan ordered Goffer
in 2011 to forfeit $10 million, representing illegal gains from
the trades.  Prosecutors recently told the appeals court that the
$10 million sum may need to be recalculated and reduced because
the appeals court in August changed the rules for determining
forfeiture amounts.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  