-- Ex-Senator Asks to Toss Suit Over Sex-Sting Legal Fees
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-11T19:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/ex-senator-asks-to-toss-suit-over-sex-sting-legal-fees.html
Former U.S. Senator Larry Craig
asked a judge to throw out a  Federal Election Commission  suit
over hiring lawyers with campaign funds after a sex-sting
arrest, arguing he was on congressional travel at the time.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in  Washington  today
voiced skepticism of Craig’s argument that he was engaged in
official Senate business simply because he was headed to the
capital when he was arrested for soliciting sex at the
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport.  “He pleaded guilty to an offense committed in a bathroom
that has no connection to his duties other than it was committed
in an airport,” Jackson said to Craig’s lawyer, Andrew Herman,
at one point during the hour-long hearing. She said she would
rule on the issue later.  Craig, an Idaho Republican, spent the money in connection
with his arrest, guilty plea to disorderly conduct and
subsequent efforts to withdraw the plea in  Minnesota , the
commission said in a lawsuit filed in June.  Craig, 67, was arrested at the airport on June 11, 2007, by
an undercover policeman. He denied soliciting sex in the
restroom, saying he had done nothing wrong and that he wasn’t a
homosexual.  Media Relations  Craig hired Washington-based Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan
to serve as lead counsel in an effort to withdraw his plea and
Kelly & Jacobson, a Minnesota firm. He also retained a media
relations firm to handle press inquiries about the incident,
according to the FEC’s complaint.  The Craig for  U.S. Senate  Committee paid Sutherland Asbill
at least $139,952 for legal services on Craig’s behalf, while
Kelly & Jacobson received about $77,032, the commission said in
the lawsuit.  The commission has asked the court to make Craig pay back
what he spent on his legal defense and to levy civil penalties
against Craig and his campaign treasurer of as much as $6,500.  Kevin Hancock, an FEC lawyer, told Jackson that political
and media fallout from the arrest wouldn’t justify tapping
campaign funds because the underlying conduct was personal.  Jackson asked Herman several times to explain how the legal
fees incurred over Craig’s behavior could be considered expenses
resulting from officeholder duties. She asked whether buying
gifts at an airport kiosk or legal fees stemming from the
robbery of the kiosk could be covered by campaign funds.  Regular Conduct  Herman responded that if the conduct involves regular
conduct while traveling, such as walking, eating or using the
restroom and something happens that results in a civil or
criminal investigation, then those legal fees could be paid for
with campaign money.  He pointed to an FEC opinion allowing former Representative
Jim Kolbe, an  Arizona  Republican, to use campaign funds to cover
legal fees associated with an investigation into improper
behavior with former congressional pages while on a trip to the
Grand Canyon.  Jackson said the Kolbe opinion doesn’t explicitly say what
conduct on that trip would be covered.  “You’re asking me to base my decision on a lot of things
that aren’t in the record,” Jackson said.  Jackson also cited a Sept. 5, 2007, letter that Craig’s
lawyers wrote to the Senate Ethics Committee explaining his
arrest as “purely personal conduct unrelated to the performance
of official Senate duties.”  “Why is that not the beginning and end of the matter,”
Jackson said. “This is how he described it. Why is that not a
compelling statement?”  Herman responded that the letter has no bearing on the FEC
case because the agency doesn’t defer to the ethics committee.   The case is Federal Election Commission v. Craig for U.S.
Senate, 1:12-cv-00958, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 