-- Ex-U.K. Lawmaker Huhne, Ex-Wife Pryce Both Get 8 Months
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-03-11T18:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/ex-u-k-lawmaker-huhne-ex-wife-both-get-eight-month-sentences.html
Former U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  was sentenced to 8 months in jail for lying about who was
driving his car when it was caught on camera speeding in 2003.  Judge Nigel Sweeney, handing down the sentence at Southwark
Crown Court today, also gave Huhne’s ex-wife Vicky Pryce, who
claimed she was behind the wheel, an 8-month term. Sweeney
called Huhne the “more culpable of the two,” while giving him
a month reduction of his sentence for pleading guilty on what
would have been his first day of his trial.  Pryce was found guilty by a jury of perverting the course
of justice for taking Huhne’s penalty points when they were
married so he could avoid losing his license. After Huhne left
her for an aide, Pryce sought revenge by telling the story to
the Sunday Times. After pleading guilty last month, Huhne
resigned from the House of Commons. The Liberal Democrat quit
his post in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s cabinet after being
charged in February 2012, initially claiming he was innocent.  “Any element of tragedy is entirely your own fault,” the
judge told Huhne and Pryce when sentencing them, calling their
actions “deliberate and done to gain joint advantage.” Both
will serve about half their sentences, the judge said.  Pryce, 60, and Huhne, 58, were charged last year. Huhne,
the first serving British Cabinet minister to be charged with a
serious criminal offense in modern times, changed his plea to
guilty after a failed bid to dismiss the case, triggering a
March 1 special election in his southern England constituency,
which his Liberal Democrat party retained.  Media Coverage  Huhne left Pryce following the exposure of his affair in
2010. Prosecutors learned of the speeding incident from the
media coverage and charged both of them in February 2012.  The judge said both Huhne and Pryce had “fallen from a
significant height” and were finally “brought to justice.”  Huhne’s lawyer,  John Kelsey-Fry , said the politician
apologizes for his actions and asked the judge to give him “the
shortest possible sentence” because he’d already lost his job
and reputation.  “By pleading guilty he resigned himself to a prison
sentence,” Kelsey-Fry said.  Pryce was convicted March 7 following a retrial after the
original jury in the case failed to reach a verdict. Pryce, who
had worked for  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN) , quit her job last week after
the conviction, her lawyer,  Julian Knowles , said today. Knowles
had argued that Pryce shouldn’t get any jail time.  The break-up of her marriage and the trial has been
“utterly distressing, painful and humiliating for her,” and
there was “a degree of pressure applied to her that contributed
to her committing that offense,” Knowles said.  The judge said that Pryce was “motivated by an implacable
desire for revenge.” He said he didn’t accept that it took much
coercion on Huhne’s part to convince Pryce to take the points.  “You were readily persuaded and chose to go along with it
to your mutual benefit,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  