-- Ex-U.S. Senator Scott Brown Joins Nixon Peabody Law Firm
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-11T19:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/ex-u-s-senator-scott-brown-joins-nixon-peabody-law-firm.html
     March 11 (Bloomberg) -- Scott Brown , who won the U.S. Senate
seat formerly held by Edward M. Kennedy of  Massachusetts  then
lost to Democrat  Elizabeth Warren  in November, joined Nixon
Peabody LLP as counsel in the law firm’s Boston office.  “During my time in politics, I never hesitated to reach
across the aisle to work with members of any political party to
secure a preferable outcome,” Brown said in a statement. “My
approach is consistent with the way Nixon Peabody does business,
and I believe we can be successful together.”  Brown, 53, became the first Republican elected to the
Senate from Massachusetts since 1972 by winning an open Senate
seat in a 2010 special election after Kennedy’s death. He lost
to Warren by seven percentage points last year in an election
for a full six-year term.  Brown’s business and governmental affairs practice at Nixon
Peabody will focus on the financial services industry and
commercial real estate matters, the firm said.  He joins other political and government officials at Nixon
Peabody, including Tom Reynolds, a five-term U.S. congressman
who leads the firm’s government relations practice.  ‘Strong Relationships’  “As we anticipate the future needs of our clients, we are
always looking for innovative ways to add value. Scott’s
personality and entrepreneurial spirit will build strong
relationships, Andrew I. Glincher, the law firm’s managing
partner, said in a statement.  Brown said in a press conference today that he hasn’t made
any decision on his political plans. “I’ve enjoyed doing it for
the last 15 years, but I’m not sure what the future holds,” he
said. “I’ll make that announcement in the future. For now,
Nixon Peabody has given me this opportunity.”  Nixon Peabody has about 700 attorneys at 17 offices in the
U.S.,  Europe , and  Asia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  New York 
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 