-- SAC Capital Manager’s Tipper Deserves Prison, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-11T21:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/expert-networker-who-leaked-to-sac-deserves-prison-u-s-says.html
Tai Nguyen, an expert-networking
consultant who pleaded guilty to leaking inside information to
ex-SAC Capital Advisors LP fund manager Noah Freeman and others,
deserves as long as 57 months in prison, prosecutors said.  Nguyen, president of Insight Research LLC, should serve
46 to 57 months, U.S. prosecutors said in a filing in Manhattan
federal court, citing the length of time he engaged in the
trading scheme from 2006 to mid-2009.  Nguyen pleaded guilty in June to a count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and wire fraud by passing material
nonpublic information about  Abaxis Inc. (ABAX) , which his lawyer said
he obtained from his sister, then an employee of the Union City,
California-based medical products company. Nguyen admitted
passing the illegal tips to Freeman, Barai Capital Management LP
founder Samir Barai and others.  “He conspired with talented portfolio managers who were
privileged to have graduated from this country’s best schools,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney David Miller said today in court papers.
“Together, they attempted to cheat the system and gain an
unfair advantage over the average investor.”  His lawyer, David Wikstrom, argues that Nguyen deserves far
less time in prison, saying he is “deeply chastened and
remorseful” and has been punished by having “damaged his
relationship with his sister and other siblings” as a result of
his crimes.  ‘Terrible Damage’  “He has been punished in a unique fashion by having done
terrible damage to his relationships with his siblings,”
Wikstrom said.  Nguyen’s lawyer cited the 2 1/2-year prison terms given to
two others convicted of insider trading in the same courthouse,
Donald Longueuil, a former portfolio manager at SAC Capital, and
James Fleishman, a former executive of Primary Global Research
LLC, a Mountain View, California-based expert-networking firm.  Nguyen is to be sentenced March 14 by U.S. District Judge
Naomi Reice Buchwald.  Wikstrom said his client was born in Saigon and emigrated
to the U.S. from Vietnam in 1975 with 11 family members. Nguyen
has a bachelor’s degree from Purdue University, he said.  Barai met Nguyen in 2005 and hired Insight to provide an
analysis of technology company stocks for a monthly fee of
$8,000, Wikstrom said. Barai also used Nguyen to launder his
money, which he did by having his firm bill Barai Capital a
monthly management fee of $20,000 and then having Nguyen pay him
the extra $12,000 in cash.  Firing’s Impact  Wikstrom said Nguyen had been recently fired and, eager to
impress Freeman and Barai, had forced his sister to pass him
illegal tips in December 2005, which he did on six occasions.
Both former fund managers are cooperating with the U.S. and
haven’t been sentenced.  “Mr. Nguyen’s greedy and stupid decision to exploit his
sister’s position to his own advantage, and to garner
credibility in the eyes of Barai and Freeman, is a personal and
family catastrophe,” Wikstrom said.  The U.S. argued that a stiff prison term would deter others
who consider engaging in insider trading, noting that it was due
to Nguyen’s actions that the fund managers were able to reap
millions of dollars in the scheme.  “Should Nguyen receive a light sentence, financial
professionals may be emboldened to engage in similar crimes,
knowing that such schemes are difficult to detect and that even
if they are caught, they will not face much time in jail,”
Miller, the prosecutor, said.  Separate Case  In a separate insider-trading case in the Manhattan federal
courthouse, Wesly Wang, a former analyst for SAC’s Sigma Capital
unit, was ordered today to pay a $500,000 judgment of money he
earned as a result of the scheme. Wang pleaded guilty to two
counts of conspiracy to commit securities fraud for passing
inside information to a former Sigma Capital portfolio manager,
Dipak Patel, and others.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who presided over Wang’s
case, in January sentenced him to two years’ probation, citing
his cooperation with the government.  Wang, who worked as a semiconductor analyst, recorded phone
calls and wore a body wire, incriminating about 20 people in
insider trading, some of whom haven’t yet been charged,
prosecutors said. He faced as long as 37 months in prison.  Rakoff made it a condition of Wang’s sentence that he
continue to assist investigators. Wang testified against Whitman
Capital LLC hedge fund founder Doug Whitman last year.  SAC Employees  Wang is one of eight current or former SAC employees linked
by government prosecutors and regulators to insider trading
while at the firm. They include Mathew Martoma, a former SAC
portfolio manager who is charged with using inside information
about the clinical trial of an Alzheimer’s drug to help SAC make
$276 million in profits and averted losses. Prosecutors have
called it the largest insider-trading scheme in history.  Martoma is charged with passing inside information on the
drug trial to Steven Cohen, SAC’s founder, who allegedly used it
to liquidate a $700 million position in the companies promoting
the drug. Cohen hasn’t been charged.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 12-cr-00495, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 