-- Fairway Group Said to Move Ahead With $200 Million IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-03-11T19:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/fairway-group-said-to-move-ahead-with-200-million-ipo-in-april.html
Fairway Group Holdings Corp. (FWM) , the
supermarket chain focused on greater  New York , plans to push
ahead with its U.S. initial public offering next month, seeking
as much as $200 million, said people familiar with the matter.  The 12-store chain owned by Sterling Investment Partners
will set a  price range  for the IPO and begin pitching the sale
to investors in the first week of April, said the people, who
asked not to be named because the process is private.  The grocery chain, which sells organic baby food and local
cheeses, is adding stores as more Americans seek natural foods
and are more conscious of what they eat. U.S. consumers are
increasingly demanding organic natural foods, according to a
June 2012 report from IBISWorld Inc., even as U.S. grocery-store
sales are forecast to be stagnant over the next four years.  Supermarkets are “shifting toward being more natural and
organic,” said Eben Jose, a Boston-based research analyst for
IBISWorld. “People are just more aware of how they should be
eating.”  Sales at the grocery chain, begun as a small neighborhood
market in the 1930s, have climbed for at least three straight
years, as it has expanded in suburban New York,  New Jersey  and
Connecticut. Fairway generated revenue of $633 million in the 12
months through December, according to regulatory filings.  Real Estate  Good real estate is “key for getting people in the door,”
IBISWorld’s Jose said. “For any grocery store to be successful,
because the industry is so saturated, it’s about finding
locations that have some opportunity left.”  Fairway competes with conventional grocery chains such as
Stop & Shop Cos., organic foodsellers such as  Whole Foods Market
Inc. (WFM) , and specialty stores including  Fresh Market Inc. (TFM)  Fairway
traces its history to 1933 when Nathan Glickberg opened a small
fruit and vegetable stand, according to the company’s website.  The stock will list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol FWM, according to regulatory filings. Credit Suisse Group
AG and Bank of America Corp. are leading the IPO.
Representatives from Fairway, Sterling, Credit Suisse and Bank
of America declined to comment.  Sterling, based in Westport, Connecticut, has invested in
middle-market companies for more than two decades, according to
its website. The firm will still control Fairway following the
offering, according to regulatory filings. They don’t indicate
how many shares, if any, Sterling plans to offer in the IPO.  Competitors  Fairway wrote off $2.1 million of merchandise and $3.4
million of property and equipment destroyed by  Hurricane Sandy ,
the October storm that forced its stores to close temporarily,
filings show. One of the locations, in Red Hook,  Brooklyn , was
forced to close because of flooding and reopened this month,
according to filings.  In moving ahead with its IPO, Fairway would follow U.S.
companies such as  Marin Software Inc. (MRIN) , Silver Spring Networks
Inc. and West Corp., which all set terms in the past month.  The chain filed for the offering in September using a $150
million placeholder amount. U.S. IPOs have raised $6.6 billion
so far this year, more than double the amount in the year-earlier period, as companies from  Zoetis Inc. (ZTS)  to  Norwegian
Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. (NCLH)  have completed offerings, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sprouts Farmers Market LLC, the 50-store grocery chain
that’s owned by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , is considering an
IPO, according to three people familiar with the situation. The
Phoenix-based seller of all-natural chicken may begin
interviewing underwriters for an IPO soon, said one of the
people, who asked not to be named because the discussions are
private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  