-- FCC May Clear T-Mobile-PCS Deal Without Vote, Union Says
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-03-11T20:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/fcc-may-clear-t-mobile-pcs-deal-without-vote-union-says.html
The U.S. Federal Communications
Commission may seek to approve, without holding a vote,  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) ’s proposal to combine its T-Mobile USA unit with
 MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , a deal critic said.  The agency may be considering an order approving the deal
“at the bureau level instead of the commission level,” Monica
Desai, an attorney for the  Communications Workers of America ,
said in a filing today with the agency. Union officials met with
FCC staff March 7 and March 8, Desai said in the filing.  “I assume it’s good” for the deal’s prospects and shows
the merger is “basically non-controversial” aside from the
union’s concerns about employment,  David Kaut , a Washington-
based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in an interview.
“No one thinks this is going to be blocked.”  The deal would reinvigorate T-Mobile, the fourth-biggest
U.S. wireless carrier, which would add subscribers and capacity
from fifth-largest MetroPCS to compete with market leader
 Verizon Wireless , No. 2  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the
third-largest U.S. provider.  The FCC can issue decisions from its department offices,
such as the wireless telecommunications bureau reviewing the
MetroPCS deal. In such a case, there would be no recorded vote
by the five commissioners, political appointees led by Chairman
 Julius Genachowski , a Democrat.  Neil Grace, an agency spokesman, declined to comment today.  ‘Outrageous’ Decision  “This is outrageous,” Debbie Goldman, telecommunications
policy director for the Washington-based labor union, said in an
interview. “It’s unprecedented that a deal that is this big and
has raised controversies about its employment impacts would not
be voted on by the full commission.”  Deutsche Telekom, Germany’s largest telephone company, on
Oct. 3 announced the deal that will leave the Bonn-based company
with 74 percent of the new business after paying MetroPCS
shareholders $1.5 billion in cash.  MetroPCS dropped 31 cents at 4:01 p.m.  New York  time to
$10.50, 28 percent below its October high as news of the deal
broke. Deutsche Telekom’s American depositary receipts, each
representing one share, rose 11 cents to $10.93.  The proposed combination, which would create a company with
an estimated workforce of 38,000, is larger than transactions
previously handled without a recorded vote, Desai said in the
union’s filing.  Job Concerns  The Communications Workers hasn’t opposed the deal and has
asked the FCC to impose requirements aimed at preserving jobs
after the companies combine. The merger as proposed will
eliminate “a significant number of jobs,” the union said in a
 March 4 filing , without supplying a figure.  T-Mobile, based in Bellevue,  Washington , in a March 8
 filing  said it plans to continue hiring at  call centers ,
“increasing the number of overall U.S. positions.” It didn’t
give a number.  The company plans to keep the two brands as separate lines
of business and to maintain two networks of retail stores and
dealer franchisees, according to the March 8 filing.  The deal will probably win approval from U.S. regulators
wary of the market power wielded by Verizon and AT&T, analysts
have said. The companies on March 5 announced antitrust
regulators were no longer scrutinizing the deal.  Paulson & Co., the biggest investor in Richardson, Texas-
based MetroPCS, wants to block the deal. The combined company
would hold too much debt,  John Paulson , founder and majority
owner, said in a Feb. 28 letter to the MetroPCS and Deutsche
Telekom boards.  Tim O’Regan, a Washington-based spokesman for T-Mobile,
declined to comment. Jim Mathias, a MetroPCS spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call and e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  