-- Feds Shouldn’t Meddle With Medical Malpractice
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-03-11T22:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/feds-shouldn-t-meddle-with-medical-malpractice.html
The idea that we should reform the
way we handle allegations of medical malpractice is enjoying a
new vogue.  At the end of a long  cover story  for Time magazine on high
U.S. health-care costs, Steven Brill suggested that doctors who
follow the best practices in the field should be shielded from
liability.  Peter Orszag , writing for Bloomberg View, argued that
this policy could do a lot to reduce costs. One of the few
health-care ideas that almost all congressional Republicans have
agreed on, meanwhile, is caps on medical-malpractice awards.  Another proposal comes from  Philip Howard : Specialized
“medical courts,”  he says , should hear malpractice cases, just
as there are courts devoted to patents, tax law and other areas
where expertise matters.  Supporters of these ideas say they would do more than
control costs. They would also improve the practice of medicine.
Doctors would no longer order unnecessary tests, for example, to
protect themselves against future lawsuits.  All of these are attractive ideas. And I don’t deny that
medical-malpractice law needs reform. Every doctor I know has a
horror story. But lawsuits over medical care have traditionally
been governed by state law -- and they should continue to be.  Consequential Mistakes  The federal government should keep out of this area, first,
because we don’t really know the best way to reform the system.
Would a legal “safe harbor” for doctors really work, or would
trial lawyers find a way to get around it? Pharmaceutical
companies thought that the federal drug-approval process would
protect them from the whims of state courts. They thought wrong.  Even if the safe harbor proved legally effective, it could
have negative effects. Doctors dislike the current system partly
because it limits their ability to do what they think best for
their patients, but a safe harbor for supposedly best practices
could just put them in a tighter straitjacket. By placing the
practice of medicine under more centralized control, the idea
will magnify the effects of any mistakes the experts make.  Caps on medical liability would prevent outrageous
verdicts, but a cap set too low could reduce the incentive for
doctors to avoid errors. Where should the cap be set? We don’t
know.  The second reason the federal government should let states
set their own rules is that they can do so without imposing
costs outside their borders. If  West Virginia  chooses rules that
punish obstetricians and gynecologists, some of them will move
to  Pennsylvania , and care will get more expensive. That’s too
bad for West Virginians, but it’s also an incentive for them to
elect legislators who will get the balance right.  Other areas of tort law don’t offer this opportunity for
competition and self-correction. In product-liability cases,
people can sue out-of-state corporations in their own states’
courts using their own states’ laws. Companies with national
markets have to adjust to the most demanding jurisdiction. The
most punitive state or locality can thus set a de facto national
policy. Federal action to stop states from hurting the rest of
the country is justified: The Constitution wisely gives the
federal government the responsibility to protect commerce among
the states.  There’s no such justification in the case of medical torts.
No state can use its medical-malpractice rules to force
outsiders to bear extra costs. It’s true that state rules can
inflate the costs of federal health-care programs (that fact
helped persuade President  George W. Bush  to call for federal
legislation to cap malpractice awards). But the federal
government has voluntarily picked those costs up, and can’t use
its own decision as a basis for intrusions.  State Solutions  A  recent study  by Michael Frakes of Cornell Law School
suggests that states that shield health providers from liability
when they follow best practices have much lower health costs
than other states. Proponents of that idea are pointing to the
study to justify federal action. What it shows, though, is that
states are capable of implementing such a policy on their own
and can capture the benefits.  Notice that neither of those things is true in product-
liability cases. No state can protect its companies from
lawsuits elsewhere. And if it clamps down on abusive product-
liability litigation inside its borders, much of the benefit
will accrue to residents of other states.  Ken Cuccinelli , the attorney general of  Virginia , is one of
the few Republicans to warn his party against attempting to
reform medical-malpractice laws from  Washington , even though, as
he  wrote  in 2011, “I am concerned that our legal system
encourages more lawsuits than are appropriate,” and even though
this imposes higher medical costs. But not every problem has a
federal solution, and he argued that states should fix their own
laws rather than have the federal government take over the
field. He’s right.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Ramesh Ponnuru  at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  