-- Fiat Joins Puegeot in Gains as Investors See Recovery
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-03-11T11:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/fiat-joins-puegeot-in-gains-as-investors-see-recovery.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Fiat SpA (F)  and
 Renault SA (RNO) , whose European deliveries tumbled last year, have
advanced more than 11 percent in the last week on investor
optimism anticipate a gradual recovery of the region’s auto
sales in the second half.  The three are the top performers among the eight members of
the  Bloomberg Europe Autos Index (BEAUTOS)  in the last week, with Peugeot
gaining 18 percent since March 4, Fiat 15 percent and Renault 11
percent.  “If you know the first half will be lousy and the second a
little better, now is the time to buy auto shares,” said
Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC Securities.  Industry executives forecast car sales in  Europe  will
decline in 2013 for a sixth straight year, with a possible
recovery of the market starting in last six months.
Registrations in January dropped 8.5 percent to the lowest level
for the month since the ACEA industry group began tracking sales
in 1990, it said last month.  The three automakers’ shares have also advanced following
labor deals at Renault and Fiat. Peugeot is seeking to push
through its own restructuring to eliminate 11,200 jobs and close
a factory on the outskirts of Paris.  Renault last week gained the backing of three unions to
move forward with eliminating 7,500 jobs and freezing wages,
boosting the French carmaker’s chances of smoothly carrying out
its cost-reduction plan. Fiat reached an agreement March 8 on a
contract renewal with Italian workers for 2013 that increased
monthly pay by 40 euros, according to the Cisl union.  “The fact that Renault struck a deal with its unions
indicates that Peugeot may do the same,” said Xavier Caroen, a
Paris-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.  Fiat  gained  as much as 16 cents, or 3.6 percent, to 4.58
euros and was up 1.7 percent as of 12:30 p.m. in Milan trading.
Renault was down 1.3 percent today in Paris, while Peugeot was
2.4 percent lower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  