-- Forint Plunges to Nine-Month Low on Central Bank Power Shift
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-03-11T10:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/forint-plunges-to-nine-month-low-on-central-bank-power-shift.html
The forint plunged the most in a
week and Hungarian bond yields jumped on concern central bank
President Gyorgy Matolcsy is concentrating power in a bid to
reshape monetary policy making.  Hungary’s currency depreciated to a nine-month low after
Matolcsy stripped two of his deputies appointed under a previous
government of some of their powers on March 8. He shifted
responsibility to Adam Balog, a vice president appointed by
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s cabinet this month along with
Matolcsy.  Investors interpreted Matolcsy’s move “as evidence that
drastic changes in the monetary policy toolkit would be
announced soon,” sending the forint through a “strong
resistance” level at 300 per euro, Mariann Trippon, a Budapest-
based economist at Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB unit, wrote in a
research report today.  The forint lost as much as 1.4 percent and traded 1.1
percent lower at 302.70 per euro by 10:42 a.m. in Budapest, the
weakest since June 5. The currency extended its slide this month
to 2.4 percent, the worst performance among more than 20
emerging-market peers tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on the
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds rose 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 6.53 percent, the highest since Feb. 6,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Smooth’ Reorganization  The central bank’s management reorganization is going
“smoothly” and a new executive structure will be in place by
the end of March, including five managing directors in office as
of today, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank said in a statement on its
website today. The statement didn’t refer to the roles of vice
presidents  Ferenc Karvalits  and Julia Kiraly, whose terms in
office are set to expire in March and July, respectively, and
whose clout Matolcsy reduced last week in a separate decree.  The forint also weakened after data published on March 8
showed Hungary’s recession deepened and because of proposed
constitutional amendments criticized by the European Union which
Parliament is scheduled to vote on today, said Bernd Berg, a
Zurich-based strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG’s private
banking unit.  “Economic weakness, questions about the central bank
independence and EU lawmakers’ concerns about the principles of
institutional independence are resulting in a loss of confidence
amongst international investors,” Berg wrote by e-mail today.  The forint may weaken as low as 310, a level last seen in
January 2012, because of the combination of political, monetary
policy and economic growth concerns, Berg said.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps rose four basis points to 314, compared
with 286 for securities from  Croatia . The two countries share a
Ba1  credit rating , the highest non-investment grade, from
Moody’s Investors Service, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  