-- Former Treasury Officials Urge Congress to Pass IMF Pact
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-03-11T18:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/former-treasury-officials-urge-congress-to-pass-imf-pact.html
Former U.S. Treasury Department
officials urged Congress to approve a 2010 global agreement that
doubles the International Monetary Fund’s permanent resources
and gives more say to  emerging markets , saying inaction
threatens to hurt U.S. leadership.  The new funds for the IMF “are essential to preserve its
central role in a global financial system that benefits the
 United States ,” according to the letter obtained by  Bloomberg
News . “Failure to act would diminish the role of the United
States in international economic policy making and undermine
U.S. efforts to promote growth and financial stability.”  Lack of action by the U.S., the IMF’s largest shareholder,
has prevented emerging markets including China and  Turkey  from
getting a voting share that better reflects their growing weight
in the world economy. It has also complicated the work of
officials negotiating the next realignment of so-called quotas,
which determine  voting rights  and access to financing, and must
be agreed on next year.  About 100 academics, former government policy makers and
ex-IMF officials signed the letter, including former Treasury
undersecretaries for international affairs Timothy Adams, David Mulford and Jeffrey Shafer.  The changes in voting rights, which requires congressional
approval because the U.S. has an effective veto at the
Washington-based lender, would increase by about $65 billion the
permanent U.S. share at the IMF. Those funds would be
transferred from an existing $100 billion temporary credit line.  Representative  John Campbell , a California Republican who
heads a House subcommittee that handles IMF matters, said in an
interview last month he thinks the Obama administration will
submit a request along with budget plans. The request was not
part of an agreement passed last week by the House that will
fund the U.S. government through September.  A Treasury spokesperson said the department is actively
working with lawmakers to get quota legislation finished as soon
as possible.  -- Editors: Brendan Murray, Paul Badertscher  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  