-- Four Azeri Activists Jailed for Protesting Deaths in Army
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-03-11T18:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/four-azeris-jailed-for-attending-rally-to-protest-deaths-in-army.html
An Azeri court sentenced four
opposition activists to prison terms ranging from six to seven
days for attending a demonstration yesterday in the capital of
Baku to protest violence in the country’s armed forces.  Eighteen other participants in the rally, organized through
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , were fined 200 manats ($254) to 600 manats. All
four jailed protesters were from the main opposition group,
People’s Front of Azerbaijan, the party said today on its
 website . The fined activists also included members of other
opposition parties and groups, it said.  Riot police used water cannon and rubber bullets to
disperse protesters chanting “No deaths in the army” in the
central Fountains Square. More than 60 were detained, according
to the organizers.  Fifteen soldiers have died this year in Azerbaijan’s mostly
conscription-based army, according to an estimate by the non-
governmental Doctrine Center of Military Studies, based in Baku.
Most of the deaths were caused by illness and bullying, it said.  Military service is mandatory for all men aged between 18
and 35 in the Caspian Sea nation, which has a population of more
than 9 million. The government has rejected calls to shift to an
all-volunteer force because of the country’s military standoff
with neighboring Armenia.  Amnesty International, a London-based rights group,
criticized the dispersal of the rally and the arrests of youth
activists.  “The violent dispersal of a peaceful protest in Azerbaijan
is the latest in a string of attempts by authorities to silence
dissidents ahead of presidential elections in October,” David
Diaz-Jogeix, Amnesty International’s deputy director for Europe
and Central Asia, said today in a  statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  