-- French Industrial Output Tumbles as Recession Looms
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-03-11T11:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/french-industrial-production-tumbles-as-recession-looms.html
French  industrial production  fell
more than expected in January as  Europe ’s second-largest economy
teetered on the brink of its third recession in four years.  Output from factories, mines and utilities fell 1.2 percent
in the month from December, national statistics office Insee
said today. Economists had expected a 0.2 percent drop,
according the median 25 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The decline underlines difficulty President Francois Hollande faces in trying to revive an economy that fell back
into recession early last year and shrank again in the fourth
quarter.  Factory output  fell 1.4 percent in January and 4.6
percent in the three months through January, led by a slump in
car production.  “ France  remains stuck in a recessionary mode,” said
Philippe Gudin, an economist at Barclays in Paris. “The
unemployment rate is flirting with historical highs and
household income is hit by higher taxes. The stabilization we
had expected from the beginning of 2013 does not seem to have
taken place.”  Stocks Fall  European stocks fell from a 4 1/2-year high today. The
Stoxx Europe 600  Index (SXXP)  dropped as much as 0.5 percent, while
Standard & Poor’s 500 futures slipped 0.2 percent.  French car makers  PSA Peugeot Citroen SA (UG)  and  Renault SA (RNO)  are
cutting tens of thousands of jobs to meet a shrinking European
car market, while companies such as telecommunications equipment
maker Alcatel-Lucent and drug maker  Sanofi SA (SAN)  are also slashing
staff. Unemployment climbed to a 13-year high of 10.6 percent in
the fourth quarter.  That’s weighing on domestic demand and tax receipts at a
time when Hollande is struggling to cut France’s budget deficit,
ease labor costs and improve job market flexibility.  Even so, the global economic recovery may be starting to
help manufacturers. Sentiment among manufacturing executives
climbed for a third month in February, the Bank of France said
last week. The central bank’s services index, which is more
closely correlated with domestic demand, fell.  ‘Past Trough’  “Should industrial production stabilize at the January
level in February and March, it would fall by materially less
than in the fourth quarter” adding to the sense that French
industry is “past its trough,” said  Gilles Moec , an economist
at Deutsche Bank in London.  In neighboring  Germany ,  exports  rose more than economists
forecast in January, according to a report published by the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden today. Seasonally
adjusted exports advanced 1.4 percent from December, while
economists expected a 0.5 percent gain, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  While the  German economy  shrank 0.6 percent in the final
three months of last year, the Bundesbank predicts it will
rebound in the current quarter. Confidence among investors and
businesses jumped in February and retail sales rose the most
more than six years in January. Still, factory orders
unexpectedly fell and industrial production stagnated.  “Very hesitantly, hard data is reflecting the strong
rebound in sentiment surveys,” said Christian Schulz, senior
economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “The economy is
rebounding from the sharp contraction, but the extent of the
rebound remains subject to some uncertainty.”  The European Central Bank last week cut its forecasts and
now expects the euro-area economy, Germany’s biggest export
market, to shrink 0.5 percent this year before growing by 1
percent in 2014. The German economy will expand 0.4 percent this
year, according to the Bundesbank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  