-- French Watchdog Opposes Iliad, Orange Extending Roaming Deal
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-03-11T19:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/french-watchdog-opposes-iliad-extending-roaming-deal-with-orange.html
Iliad SA (ILD) , the French low-cost
mobile carrier renting network capacity from  France Telecom  SA,
shouldn’t be allowed to extend a roaming agreement, the
country’s competition authority said.  France  Telecom, which operates under the Orange brand,
should consider ending the contract before it runs out in 2018,
the authority’s president, Bruno Lasserre,  said  today in a press
conference in Paris. Under the agreement, France Telecom can end
the deal in 2016. Iliad or France Telecom haven’t said whether
they’ll seek an extension or early termination.  The pact has allowed Paris-based Iliad’s Free Mobile to
sell cheap phone packages before building its own infrastructure
in full, prompting competitors to slash prices, reduce spending
and plan job cuts. The accord has helped France Telecom to
offset falling revenue in its home market.  “The roaming contract with Orange has given Free a
considerable advantage,” Lasserre said. “Roaming can give some
players the ability to give the market a new direction. It needs
to be regulated and it needs to have a time limit.”  Iliad has been renting capacity from  France Telecom (FTE)  since
they signed a six-year roaming contract two years ago, paying
the former phone monopoly 500 million ($650 million) to 700
million euros a year, according to Lasserre. France Telecom said
last year the roaming contract will generate revenue of more
than 1 billion euros over three years.  ‘  The contract allowed Iliad, an Internet-service provider,
to start selling mobile packages in France in January 2012.
Iliad has since added 5.2 million mobile subscribers.  France Telecom is satisfied with the report, which held
“no surprises” with regard to the company’s roaming deal with
Iliad and paves the way for potential negotiations with rivals
in the coming weeks about mutualization, Secretary General
Pierre Louette said in an interview. SFR also said in a release
that it is satisfied with the report.  Isabelle Audap, a Paris-based spokeswoman for Iliad,
declined to comment on the competition authority’s comments.  Iliad  was little changed  at 151.90 euros at the close of
trading in Paris. The stock has advanced 54 percent in the past
year. France Telecom rose 1 percent to 7.98 euros.  ‘Collusion Risks’  Iliad is required by law to cover 75 percent of the French
population with its own mobile network by 2015, and 90 percent
of it by 2018. It said in January the coverage was 50 percent.  The carrier’s entry into the mobile market, at discounted
prices as low as 2 euros per month, prompted competitors to also
cut rates. France Telecom,  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR and  Bouygues SA (EN)  have
since sought to reduce spending to adapt. SFR and Bouygues
Telecom unveiled plans to cut jobs.  The backlash prompted French ministers to ask the local
watchdog last year for an opinion on Iliad’s roaming contract.
They also asked the authority to set some standards for future
network sharing or any form of consolidation in the industry.  “The French telecoms market still shows some signs of
collusion risks,” the authority said in a press release. While
sharing networks in the least-populated areas of the country
will be encouraged, deals in dense cities will be studied
cautiously, Lasserre said.  Straight mergers between France’s carriers are not
“possible nor desirable,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  