-- GE Promises DiNapoli to Study Expanded Hudson River Cleanup
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-03-11T20:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/ge-promises-new-york-s-dinapoli-to-study-wider-hudson-cleanup.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  agreed to
examine expanding its cleanup of pollutants from a section of
New York’s Hudson River after state Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli
sought an investor vote on a study to widen the project.  GE, which discharged as much as 1.3 million pounds of
likely carcinogens into the river over a three-decade span, will
complete a review this year to determine whether removing more
contaminated dirt will help reduce future penalties, according
to correspondence with DiNapoli’s office. He withdrew the
shareholder proposal after the company’s concession.  The manufacturer is set to start a fourth summer of
dredging under agreements with the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency. In addition to the more than $1 billion it says it has
already spent on the cleanup efforts, GE may face more fines
based on an assessment of environmental damage by state and
federal regulators.  “GE has been doing an excellent job with its remedial
dredging and we believe they will save money by getting it all
done now, as well as win the praise of the environmental
community and reduce their future liability,” Ned Sullivan,
president of Scenic Hudson, an environmental group that worked
with DiNapoli’s office, said in a telephone interview.  GE agreed to the study after DiNapoli, a Democrat, sought
to bring it before the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s
shareholders for a vote at its annual meeting, the
correspondence shows.  Pension Fund  GE asked the Securities and Exchange Commission for
permission to block the vote, asserting that DiNapoli’s proposal
“micromanages” the company and was already considered as part
of its cleanup efforts, according to correspondence with the
agency.  DiNapoli sought the study after an EPA report issued in
June found higher-than-expected concentrations of PCBs in areas
not targeted for further dredging, according to a statement from
his office.  “GE has not agreed to conduct more dredging and does not
believe more dredging is necessary,” Mark Behan, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. While the EPA has
rejected calls for more dredging, the company said it “will
respond to Comptroller DiNapoli’s question, assemble the
voluminous existing data and conduct another comprehensive
review and analysis before the end of the year.”  Retirement Fund  New York’s $150 billion Common Retirement Fund, of which
DiNapoli is the sole trustee,  owns  more than 33 million GE
shares worth about $768 million, Eric Sumberg, his spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  “GE deserves praise for getting in front of this problem
and exploring the benefits of additional dredging,” DiNapoli
said in the statement. “It is much better to act sooner rather
than later.”  GE fell 0.6 percent to $23.62 today in New York, commanding
a 10 percent premium to the Dow Jones Industrial Average on a
price-earnings basis. The shares have climbed 13 percent this
year,  compared  with an 9.1 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and a 10 percent increase for industrial-
company stocks.  In addition to the EPA, GE’s cleanup efforts are being
observed by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and New York’s Department of
Environmental Conservation, which can seek a settlement with the
company to compensate for damage to natural resources.  Religious Investors  The company is in talks with the NOAA and the New York
State Canal Commission about whether to broaden its cleanup
work, the SEC correspondence shows.  DiNapoli’s shareholder proposal isn’t the first to prompt
GE to take action on the Hudson River cleanup.  In 2006, a group of 35 Roman Catholic institutional
investors claimed victory after the company detailed $122
million in spending on public relations, lobbying and legal
expenses during a 15-year span during which the shareholders
said it “fought any efforts to clean up its discharges” of
polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs, into the Hudson and at two
other sites.  Before being banned in 1977, PCBs were commonly used in
fluids in transformers and electrical equipment, as well as an
additive in adhesives, plastic and paint.  Fishing was prohibited in the upper Hudson River from 1976
until 1995 because of “extremely high” levels of PCBs in fish,
according to the New York State Department of Environmental
Conservation. Anglers have been allowed to return to the river
on the condition they don’t keep any of the fish they catch.  Chemical Pollution  The EPA in 2002 released a plan to dredge pollutants that
GE factories in Hudson Falls and Fort Edward dumped into the
river starting in the 1940s.  The cleanup’s goal is removal of 95 percent of the PCBs,
contaminating a 40-mile (64-kilometer) stretch of the river near
 Albany . PCBs are industrial compounds that resist chemical and
biological breakdown, and scientists consider them a likely
human carcinogen.  GE agreed in October 2005 to take initial steps to remove
the PCBs from the river even as it challenged in court the law
that allows the EPA to order the cleanup of so-called Superfund
sites.  In 2009, a federal judge in  Washington  rejected GE’s
argument that the agency violated its rights in the way it
implemented the statute. Later that year, the company agreed to
perform a second phase of cleanup and dredging that began in
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 