-- Italy’s Bonds Drop After Fitch Downgrade; German Bunds Advance
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-03-11T16:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/germany-s-bonds-advance-after-fitch-lowers-italy-s-credit-rating.html
Italy’s government bonds fell for a
second day after  Fitch Ratings  downgraded the nation, saying
inconclusive elections threatened its ability to respond to
recession.  Two-year notes led losses as Fitch said after markets
closed last week that Italy’s recession was “one of the
deepest” in  Europe . German 10-year bunds rose for the first
time in six days as investors sought the region’s safest assets.
Spain’s 10-year yield declined to the lowest level since
November 2010 after Economy Minister Luis de Guindos predicted
economic growth would resume before year-end.  “The move looks to be related to the move by Fitch,” said
 Luca Cazzulani , a senior fixed-income strategist at UniCredit
Global Research in Milan. “We should be prepared for a very
long period of uncertainty and volatility on the Italian yield
curve. It is difficult to see the market taking a clear
direction.”  Italy’s 10-year yield climbed three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.63 percent at 4:45 p.m. London time. The
5.5 percent bond due in November 2022 fell 0.26, or 2.60 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,301) face amount, to 107.095.  The two-year yield increased five basis points to 1.80
percent after rising as much as 12 basis points, the most since
Feb. 26.  Fitch lowered Italy’s sovereign rating to BBB+ from A- with
a negative outlook, according to a statement released March 8.
That’s three levels above junk and one higher than Spain,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Political Uncertainty’  “The increased political uncertainty and non-conducive
backdrop for further structural reform measures constitute a
further adverse shock to the real economy,” Fitch said.  Italy’s bonds have trailed behind their Spanish
counterparts since the parliamentary elections on Feb. 24-25
failed to produce a clear winner, threatening outgoing Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s austerity program.  The extra yield investors get for holding Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of their Italian counterparts narrowed five basis
points today to 11 basis points. The spread has contracted from
116 basis points in July, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on closing prices.  Further Downgrades  “Investors are starting to realize that further rating
downgrades can follow” in Italy, said Alessandro Giansanti, a
senior fixed-income strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“The latest political news points to a deadlock in the
discussions to form a new government. Spain has a majority
government and it has regained investors’ confidence after the
reduced  budget deficit  in 2012.”  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.  De Guindos said the extra yield investors demand to hold
 Spain ’s 10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds
should shrink below 300 basis points, without giving a time
frame. The spread was little changed today at 324 basis points.  “All the problems we had are being brought under control
and at the end of this year we’ll start to grow,” De Guindos
said in an interview with Antena 3 television station posted on
the Internet. “If we don’t have setbacks with the euro, we
could see positive surprises.”  Spain’s 10-year bond yield was little changed at 4.76
percent after falling to 4.72 percent, the lowest level since
Nov. 22, 2010.  Spain is scheduled to auction as much as 5.5 billion euros
of 189- and 371-day securities tomorrow, while  Italy  is due to
sell 7.75 billion euros of 12-month bills.  Bunds Gain  German bunds advanced even as a government report showed
exports rose more in January than economists predicted, adding
to signs that Europe’s largest economy is gathering momentum.  Shipments abroad climbed 1.4 percent from December, when
they gained 0.2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office said.
Economists forecast an increase of 0.5 percent, according to a
 Bloomberg News survey .  The German 10-year yield fell one basis point to 1.51
percent after climbing to 1.54 percent on March 8, the highest
level since Feb. 25.  Europe’s largest economy is trimming 2013 debt sales to 250
billion euros, down 5 billion euros from 2012. Regulators are
also pushing financial institutions to hold more top-rated
assets, said  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income strategy at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .  “Demand for quality assets is expected to rise at a time
when  Germany  just achieved a budget surplus and risk sentiment
is still shaky,” Rieger said. “The structural changes in the
market and scarcity premiums it creates should keep bund yields
low for the time being.”  Bond Movers  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of  Finland  and the Netherlands,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Italy’s government bonds returned 0.6 percent this month
through March 8, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities rose 1.6 percent, while Germany’s fell 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  