-- German SPD Sets Higher-Taxes Campaign in Bid to Unseat Merkel
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-03-11T17:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/german-spd-sets-higher-taxes-campaign-in-bid-to-unseat-merkel.html
Germany’s Social Democrats agreed
on an election platform that would  raise the top income-tax rate 
and set a national minimum wage, reversing policies pursued by
Gerhard Schroeder, the party’s last chancellor.  The main German opposition party’s blueprint for unseating
Chancellor Angela Merkel in Sept. 22 elections includes calls
for narrowing the rich-poor gap in  Europe ’s biggest economy and
tightening financial regulation.  Peer Steinbrueck , the SPD
chancellor candidate who was Merkel’s first-term finance
minister, presented the platform in Berlin today.  “This federal election will be decided on social issues,”
Steinbrueck told reporters. The SPD wants to “tame financial
capitalism” because many voters view politicians as “stooges”
of the markets, he said.  Steinbrueck is summoning classic Social Democrat themes in
his bid to deny Merkel a third term as voter approval of her
response to the euro area’s debt crisis since 2010 keeps her the
nation’s most popular politician. Still, polls suggest both
Merkel’s coalition of her Christian Democratic bloc and Free
Democrats and an opposition SPD-Green alliance lack the votes to
form a government.  The SPD would increase the top income-tax rate to 49
percent from the current 45 percent, reinstate a wealth tax, set
a legal minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.05), and boost aid to
families with children, according to the platform, which
requires formal approval by a party convention in April.  Tax Rise  Raising income taxes would undo part of Schroeder’s
“Agenda 2010,” a labor-market and benefits overhaul he began a
decade ago this month. Schroeder cut the top rate to 45 percent
from 53 percent under the program, which reduced record
unemployment and boosted German competitiveness. Faced with
protests over the welfare-state cuts, Schroeder called early
elections in 2005 that Merkel won.  Steinbrueck said higher taxes on the richest Germans are
needed partly to meet debt-reduction rules written into the
constitution by Merkel’s coalition and touted by her as a model
for highly-indebted euro countries. Additional revenue will be
channeled into infrastructure and education, he said.  The SPD’s tax plans “are like an attack on  Germany ’s
Mittelstand,” the small and mid-size companies that make up the
economy’s backbone, Kurt Lauk, who heads the business caucus of
Merkel’s CDU, said in a statement. “The foundation of our
strong, successful place for business would be gravely
damaged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  