-- German Exports Increased More Than Forecast in January
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-03-11T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/german-exports-increased-more-than-forecast-in-january.html
German exports rose more than
economists forecast in January, adding to signs that  Europe ’s
largest economy is gathering momentum after a contraction in the
fourth quarter.  Exports, adjusted for working days and seasonal changes,
advanced 1.4 percent from December, when they gained 0.2 percent,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists had forecast a 0.5 increase, according to the median
of 13 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . Imports rose 3.3
percent from December.  While the German economy shrank 0.6 percent in the final
three months of last year, the Bundesbank predicts it will
rebound in the current quarter. Confidence among investors and
businesses jumped in February and retail sales rose the most in
more than six years in January. Still, factory orders
unexpectedly fell and industrial production stagnated.  “Very hesitantly, hard data is reflecting the strong
rebound in sentiment surveys,” said  Christian Schulz , senior
economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “The economy is
rebounding from the sharp contraction, but the extent of the
rebound remains subject to some uncertainty.”  The  trade surplus  rose to 13.7 billion euros ($17.8 billion)
from 12.1 billion euros in December. The surplus in the current
account, a measure of all trade including services, was 11.3
billion euros, down from 20.2 billion euros.  ECB Forecast  The  European Central Bank  last week cut its forecasts and
now expects the euro-area economy, Germany’s biggest export
market, to shrink 0.5 percent this year before growing by 1
percent in 2014. The German economy will expand 0.4 percent this
year, according to the Bundesbank.  Recent economic data in the 17-nation currency bloc were
“disappointing,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on March 7.
At the same time, he expects the euro-area economy to “recover
gradually” later this year.  Some German companies are compensating for weaker demand in
Europe with shipments to faster growing markets.  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker,
on March 7 forecast higher sales and profit for this year and
raised its dividend by 35 percent. The Herzogenaurach, Germany-
based company said it will target emerging markets and introduce
new products.  “We are still expecting economic growth of 1 percent in
Germany this year,” said  Ralph Solveen , an economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “The indicators of sentiment point
to the positive trend continuing in the months ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  