-- German Stocks Are Little Changed Near a Five-Year High
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-03-11T16:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/german-stocks-retreat-as-continental-shares-decline.html
German stocks  were little changed,
near their highest level in more than five years, as  Fitch
Ratings  downgraded Italy’s debt, offsetting a report that showed
Europe’s largest economy exported more than estimated.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  fell, following European banks lower.
 Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest maker of auto parts,
slipped after Morgan Stanley downgraded the shares.  Nordex (NDX1)  SE
rallied to its highest price in 11 months after predicting that
sales will climb in 2013.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  slipped less than 0.1 percent to 7,984.29 at
the close in  Frankfurt , close to its highest level since Dec.
28, 2007. The gauge  rallied 3.8 percent  over the past four days.
The broader HDAX Index also lost less than 0.1 percent today.  “Many positive things are priced in at this level” said
Christian Schmidt, a market analyst at Helaba Frankfurt. “It’s
normal to see a correction after the huge increase. Other than
the  Italy  downgrade, there isn’t much news.”  Bunds climbed, with 10-year securities snapping a five-day
slide, after Fitch lowered Italy’s credit rating by one level,
increasing demand for the euro area’s safest assets.  Fitch cut Italy’s government bond rating to BBB+ from A-
with a negative outlook after the close of equity markets on
March 8, as last month’s election produced political paralysis
that threatens the country’s ability to respond to a recession
and the euro region’s debt crisis.  German exports , adjusted for working days and seasonal
changes, advanced 1.4 percent from December, when they gained
0.2 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said.
Economists had forecast a 0.5 increase, according to the median
of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Cyprus Bailout  European Union leaders will meet for a summit in Brussels
on March 14-15 to discuss the terms of Cyprus’s bailout. These
include the nation’s debt sustainability and possibly imposing
losses on depositors.  Deutsche Bank retreated 1.1 percent to 34.19 euros. A gauge
of lenders in the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.7 percent for
the biggest drag on the equity benchmark.  Continental slid 1.2 percent to 96.68 euros. The stock was
cut to equal weight from overweight at Morgan Stanley, meaning
that investors should not buy more of the shares. The brokerage
said that European auto suppliers have limited upside.  ElringKlinger AG (ZIL2)  slid 4.6 percent to 22.01 euros. The maker
of car parts was cut to reduce from buy at Kepler and lowered to
reduce from hold at Commerzbank AG, meaning that investors
should sell the shares.  Germany ’s second-largest lender said
that ElringKlinger’s higher valuation compared with its rivals
may have peaked.  Nordex, Suedzucker  Nordex jumped 15 percent to 4.43 euros after the wind-
turbine maker forecast sales of as high as 1.3 billion euros
($1.7 billion) and a margin on earnings before interest and
taxes of as much as 3 percent. The company posted revenue of
1.075 billion euros for 2012.  Suedzucker AG (SZU) , Europe’s biggest sugar producer, fell 4.9
percent to 32.33 euros, its biggest decline in two months.  Henkel AG, which makes Persil detergent, advanced 2.4
percent to 72.12 euros for the biggest gain on the DAX.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  