-- Gillard Leadership Questioned as Western Australia Liberals Win
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-03-11T03:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/gillard-leadership-questioned-as-western-australia-liberals-win.html
Prime Minister Julia Gillard
returns to parliament tomorrow facing fresh scrutiny over her
leadership after the Labor party suffered a blow in state
elections in Western Australia as the Liberals were re-elected
with an increased majority.  State Premier Colin Barnett’s Liberals are forecast to win
32 seats in the 59-member legislative assembly after an 8.8
percentage point voter swing in the party’s favor in the March 9
election, the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  said , based on 76
percent of the vote being counted. Their coalition partner, the
National Party, is forecast to win seven seats, and opposition
Labor 20 seats after a 2.2 percentage point swing against it.  Federal politicians return to Canberra this week after
Gillard’s five days of campaigning in marginal seats in Sydney’s
west failed to boost Labor’s standing, according to an opinion
poll published today. In Western Australia, her tax to snare
mining profits alienated voters in the state that produces a
third of the world’s traded iron ore.  “On the W.A. evidence, the likelihood is that they’ll be
going backwards,” said David Briggs, a spokesman for Galaxy
Research in Sydney. “They couldn’t get the voters away from
issues of the carbon tax and the mineral resources tax.”  A Galaxy poll published in the Daily  Telegraph  newspaper
showed Labor’s support falling one point to 45 percent on a two-
party preferred basis, while federal opposition leader Tony
Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition gained one point to 55
percent. The poll of 1,010 people conducted March 5-7 showed
only 32 percent of voters said Labor should keep Gillard as
leader, with 26 percent favoring her predecessor Kevin Rudd, and
33 percent opting for a new figure to head the governing party.
No margin of error was given.  Gillard’s office declined to comment on the implications of
the state result for her leadership, and referred to a March 10
 statement  in which she congratulated Barnett on his re-election.  Rudd Bets  Punters have increased bets that Rudd, who Gillard ousted
in a late-night party coup in June 2010, will lead Labor at the
Sept. 14 election, Sportingbet  Australia  said in an e-mailed
statement. He is now paying A$1.90, equal favorite with Gillard.
Labor is at A$5.90 to win the election, the longest odds since
March 2011, and the Coalition is a A$1.12 favorite, Sportingbet
said.  “It’s been one way traffic for Rudd since the weekend and
we can’t write a ticket for Gillard,” Sportingbet Australia
Chief Executive Officer Michael Sullivan said.  Tarnished Brand  Labor is in opposition in the four biggest of the nation’s
six states and trails in national polls.  “The federal Labor brand is tarnished at the moment and I
think that does rub off on the state branches,” Zareh Ghazarian, a lecturer in politics at Monash University, said by
phone from  Melbourne . The strength of the Western Australia
economy and the lack of any major scandals were also decisive in
the result, he said.  Western Australia, more than three times the size of  Texas ,
is enjoying a decade-long boom, comparable with its 1890s gold
rush, on Asian demand for its resource riches. The state has an
investment pipeline of A$141 billion ($144 billion), more than
half of Australia’s total, according to estimates from the
Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics.  Work is progressing on  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s A$52 billion Gorgon
liquefied natural gas project and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s expansions
to iron ore operations. The state is also home to mining
magnates such as  Gina Rinehart , Australia’s richest person, and
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  founder Andrew Forrest.  Resources Industry  Reflecting the strength of the resources industry, final
demand in the state surged 14.2 percent from a year earlier in
the fourth quarter, Australian Bureau of Statistics data
released March 6 shows. Western Australians have the highest
average earnings of any state and an unemployment rate of 4
percent, against the national average of 5.4 percent.  Labor’s links with the trade union movement are now
alienating it from the wider public as union membership
declines, Mark Latham, who led the party into the country’s 2004
national election, said on Sky News television yesterday.  “The ship’s going down,” Latham said. “Modern trade
unionism has got about 10 percent of the voting public now. If
you want to be a party of 10 percent of the voting public you’re
not a mass party, you’re an interest group and you’ll get an
interest group result.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  