-- Gillard Rallies in Poll Support Ahead of Australian Election
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-03-12T04:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/gillard-rallies-in-poll-support-ahead-of-australian-election.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor government narrowed the gap with the opposition
six months ahead of a federal election, easing pressure on her
after the party was defeated in a state vote.  Labor rose 3 percentage points to 48 percent on a two-party
preferred basis, with  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition
falling 3 points to 52 percent, according to a Newspoll survey
published in the Australian newspaper today. The poll also
showed Labor would win the election if Kevin Rudd, who was
ousted by Gillard in 2010, replaced her.  Gillard, the nation’s first female leader, faces an uphill
battle with her party having trailed in polls for almost two
years and with unemployment rising in areas that have
traditionally supported Labor. The state election loss at the
weekend in  Western Australia , party scandals and lower-than-
forecast revenue from a mining tax have also hampered Gillard’s
efforts to build momentum and sparked speculation the party may
turn back to Rudd.  Gillard is “still on track to lose government,” said
 Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing research at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra. “She needs to
string together some good performances and get her party united
behind her to have any chance of winning the election.”  If Rudd was Labor’s leader and Abbott led the Liberals, the
poll showed Labor may gain a potential election-winning lead of
56 percent to 44 percent on a two-party preferred basis. The
two-party preferred measure is designed to gauge which party is
likely to win enough seats to form government at the Sept. 14
election.  Rudd Factor  The March 8-10 telephone survey of 1,143 people had a
margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points. On the
question of who would make the better prime minister, Gillard
rose 6 points to 42 percent against Abbott’s 38 percent, down 2
points. The  previous poll  was held Feb. 22-24.  “The Newspoll is going to go up and down,” Tertiary
Education Minister  Chris Bowen  told Australian Broadcasting
Corp. radio today. “We’ve got to stay focused on the job.”  Asked about the chance of Rudd returning as prime minister,
Bowen said that issue was resolved in his failed February 2012
leadership challenge. Gillard spent five days campaigning in
marginal seats in Sydney’s west this month, a tactic that may
have contributed to her bounce in the polls today.  W.A. Fallout  In Western  Australia , state Premier  Colin Barnett ’s
Liberals are forecast to win 32 seats in the 59-member
legislative assembly after an 8.8 percentage point voter swing
in the party’s favor in the March 9 election, the ABC said,
based on 79 percent of the votes being counted. Labor was
forecast to win 20 seats after a 2.3 percentage point swing
against it.  “There’s clearly fallout from the West Australian election
where people are running to blame Julia Gillard,” Shadow
Environment Minister Greg Hunt said in a Sky News interview
today. “We know that Julia Gillard is in the seat and wants to
stay. We know that  Kevin Rudd  wants her job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  