-- Golden Woman Hangs Upside Down, Pours Napa Valley Wine
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2013-03-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/golden-woman-hangs-upside-down-pours-napa-valley-wine.html
“We’re trending above Nascar and
the Oscars on twitter,” crows auctioneer Fritz Hatton, as he
opens the 17th  Premiere Napa Valley  trade barrel auction with
sharp bangs of his gavel.  Everyone cheers, primed to bid big on cabernet after a week
of wooing by vintners at tastings and parties. The wildest event
was Raymond Vineyards’ “Napa Gras,” where a woman in long
black gloves and abbreviated gold body suit poured wine while
hanging upside down.  Napa’s annual February event serves as a barometer of
demand for expensive Napa cabs, which seems to mirror the mood
on  Wall Street . Since this year’s Feb. 23 auction hit a near-
record $3.04 million, the Dow has continued to set new highs.  The 211 one-of-a-kind, not-yet-bottled cuvees offered in
five, 10, or 20-case lots represent each winery’s best of the
best. Most are cabernets from the 2011 vintage, so the pre-
auction tastings provide a gauge to the year’s overall quality
and an opportunity to scout out the valley’s hot new names.  The big room at the  Culinary Institute of America  in St.
Helena is crowded with rowdy retailers, restaurateurs,
importers, distributors and media from 39 states and nine
countries.  Ichizo Nakagawa, owner of  Tokyo ’s Nakagawa Wine Co. Ltd.,
which specializes in California wine, is sporting a bright
orange jacket and shirt with a wild striped tie and a golfer’s
tan.  Number Cruncher  His son Sei, a former bond trader who is now company
president, keeps an eye on the spreadsheet open on his white
laptop and the auction catalog.  Nakagawa used to design golf courses and run the family
lumber business, sampled his first California wine in the 1970s,
and started his wine business in 1985.  “Once I tasted Ridge Vineyards cabernet I stopped drinking
 Chateau Latour ,” Nakagawa says, as his son translates. “I
perceived huge potential for California wine in the Japanese
market. It’s a useful tool for networking. You can drink it
without food.”  Immortalized at home as a California wine expert in the
influential Japanese wine manga series “Drops of God” (Kami no
Shizuku), Nakagawa is equally famous in Napa.  Chateau Lafite  His winning $125,000 bid in 2011 for five cases of 2009
Scarecrow, the highest ever bid at Premiere, drew a standing
ovation and a flood of emails from buyers. That’s $2,083 a
bottle, more than a 2009 Chateau Lafite costs today.  “High-end Japanese people want rare California wines they
can’t purchase easily,” he says.  So do Americans. Robert Trone, co-owner of  Total Wine &
More , an independent wine retailer with 89 superstores, paid
$75,000 for the most expensive lot, 10 cases of the luscious
2011 “We Will Rock You” cabernet blend from Bevan Cellars and
 Chateau Boswell Winery . He also splashed out $50,000 for five
cases ($833 a bottle) of tannic, powerful 2011  Shafer Sunspot
Vineyard  cabernet, produced from the tiny parcel of land that
also provides the heart of their cult cab Hillside Select.  “It’s for a good cause,” Trone says, with a grin. Auction
proceeds help fund the  Napa Valley Vintners  association.  Nakagawa is more cautious. “This year is complicated,” he
says. “2011 is not the greatest year. 2012 is better.” Still,
he bought five cases of plush 2011  Revana Family Vineyard 
Premier Cuvee cabernet (one of my top wines) for $15,000 and
another five of spicy 2011  Lewis Cellars  cabernet for $26,000,
among other lots.  Cellar Stocker  Like most auction buyers here, Nakagawa has commissions
from customers for specific lots; the rest of his purchases will
fatten his inventory.  I was more impressed than I expected with the 2011 vintage,
a year vintners spin as “challenging,” due to heavy rains
right before harvest. Winemakers who picked early or managed to
prevent mildew and rot, made delicious wines that have lovely,
juicy fruit, bright acidity, and aren’t buried under the high
alcohol that often plagues Napa cabs. On the other hand, many
wineries failed to get it right.  My top picks among these 2011s include the complex earth-
and-cherry 2011 Corison Winery Premiere Reserve; the bright,
rich, cassis-flecked 2011  Kapcsandy Family Winery  cabernet; a
dark, intense 2011  Spottswoode Estate Vineyard & Winery 
cabernet; silky-textured 2011  Notre Vin  winery’s “One Hundred
Vines” cabernet; and the concentrated, plummy 2011  Continuum
Estate  cab blend.  Opulent Cabernet  I also made some new impressive discoveries: the supple,
elegant 2011  St. Helena  Winery cabernet sauvignon, just its
second vintage; a pure, violet-scented 2011  Detert Family
Vineyards  cabernet franc, made from 60-year-old vines; and the
ripe, opulent 2011 Patel Tourmaline Vineyard cabernet.  Tracking down Premiere wines outside the auction used to be
tough, though now the Napa Valley Vintners posts on its website
the names of the winning bidders for each lot. Now may be a good
time to contact them if you want to buy before the Dow climbs
any higher.  (Elin McCoy writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlights include  art  and  television  reviews.  To contact the writer of this story:
 Elin McCoy  at  elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 