-- Grenada Restructuring Adds to Caribbean’s Debt Troubles
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2013-03-11T17:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/grenada-restructuring-adds-to-caribbean-s-debt-troubles.html
Grenada called on creditors to
restructure $193 million of bonds ahead of a coupon payment this
week that the Caribbean island’s government said it can’t afford
to make, eight years after its last debt swap.  “The global financial crisis has taken a heavy toll on the
country and aggravated the severe debt overhang that continues
to weigh down our economy,” Prime Minister Keith Mitchell said
in an e-mailed statement on March 8. “It is now time for
Grenada to confront the fact that it cannot continue to pay its
debts on current terms.”  The island nation, which exports nutmeg and relies on
tourism to fuel its $1.4 billion economy, has struggled to lower
debt that may reach 109 percent of gross domestic product this
year, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The
government is due to make a coupon payment March 15.  Yields for Grenada’s dollar bonds surged to 17.35 percent
on March 8, the highest among 12 Caribbean and Central American
nations tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CACI index, on
investor concerns the nation would default after missing a
coupon payment in September. The government paid investors
before the end of a grace period. The country’s dollar bonds
have lost 5.2 percent over the past year.  Grenada, which was invaded by U.S. forces in 1983, would be
the third Caribbean country to restructure its debt this year.
Jamaica said on March 1 that about 99% of bondholders agreed to
swap 860 billion ($9.1 billion) of higher interest local debt
for lower yielding bonds. Belize is finishing negotiations on
its second restructuring in five years, after missing a $23
million coupon payment in August 2012.  Climbing Coupons  Marla Dukharan, an analyst with RBC Financial Caribbean Ltd
in  Trinidad & Tobago , said Grenada’s economy faces weak growth
this year after suffering a 5.1 percent drop in tourism and an
82 percent reduction in grants in 2012.  “The prospects for growth revival in Grenada are slim in
2013, and given severe fiscal and liquidity constraints, the
proposed debt restructure announced last week seemed
inevitable,” Dukharan said today by e-mail. “It would come as
no surprise if this proposed restructure involves a haircut.”  While the previous government paid investors within a 30-
day grace period, Mitchell, elected on Feb. 19, said Grenada
won’t be able to meet its obligation on March 15. The 4.5
percent coupon on the bonds was set to climb to 6 percent in
September and reach 9 percent in 2018 as part of a restructuring
agreement reached with creditors in 2005.  Hurricanes, Crisis  Struggling to recover from hurricanes and the impact of the
global financial crisis, Grenada’s economy contracted an average
of 1.2 percent a year from 2008-2012, while the 2005 debt
restructuring assumed growth of 4.7 percent, Mitchell said.  Bondholders may have to take a “substantial haircut” as
the government struggles to pay even public salaries, said Carl Ross, a managing director at Oppenheimer & Co., a brokerage
firm.  “If you’re going to keep restructuring debt, you better
get it right the second time,” Ross said in a phone interview
from Atlanta.  The southeastern Caribbean nation had been rated CCC+ by
 Standard & Poor’s , putting the country of 109,000 in the same
category as Jamaica and Cyprus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Washington at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  