-- Grief’s Five Stages Explain Post-Quake Japan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-03-11T21:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/grief-s-five-stages-explain-post-quake-japan-william-pesek.html
The second anniversary of  Japan ’s
monstrous earthquake has me thinking about Elisabeth Kuebler- Ross.  The five stages of grief outlined in her 1969 book, “On
Death and Dying,” aptly capture where the collective Japanese
psyche has journeyed, and where it hasn’t, in the 24 months
since a 9-magnitude quake and giant tsunami forever changed the
relationship between nature and the nuclear reactors in the
nation’s midst.  I first learned about Kuebler-Ross from my mother, a
bereavement counselor and Catholic chaplain in  New York . She met
with Kuebler-Ross occasionally to compare notes in the 1990s,
and says the psychiatrist “brought death out of the closet” to
vastly improve the lot of dying patients.  It has occurred to me over the past two years that just as
the terminally ill experience five stages of grief, so, too, has
Japan gone through denial, anger, bargaining, despair and
ultimate acceptance of the ways their tragedy played out.  Denial arrived in the days immediately after March 11,
2011, when waves as high as 133 feet (41 meters) erased entire
towns and overwhelmed a nuclear facility 135 miles from  Tokyo .
As radiation leaked at the Fukushima power plants, authorities
assured the nation’s 126 million people that all was well. Tokyo
Electric Power Co., whose negligence led to the worst nuclear
mess since Chernobyl, hid the severity of the crisis.  Anger Incorporated  Next came anger amid press reports about just how close
Japan came to losing Tokyo. We learned more about how then-Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  stormed into Tepco headquarters, demanded
that its staff gain control over the meltdown and literally
saved the city from extinction. The plight of hundreds of
thousands in the northeast’s Tohoku region enraged the nation as
reconstruction unfolded at a glacial pace.  Japanese wanted change. They wanted leaders to be more
transparent and to disengage the autopilot that had been guiding
the country for 20 years. They wanted someone at Tepco to go to
jail and bureaucrats to be fired. Their fury led to the biggest
street protests since the 1960s.  Then Japanese realized epochal change was more than they
had bargained for. The specter of finding alternatives to
nuclear power and rebuilding the northeast had politicians
betting they would wake up and find it was all a bad dream. News
reports of shantytowns, radioactive schools and squandered
rebuilding funds became less frequent. Stories about the
resilience of the Japanese people eclipsed curiosity about the
role that ingrained conventions of culture and reflexive
obedience played in the crisis.  Despair arrived by the first anniversary of the quake, when
it became clear that little would change. Far from altering
Japan’s trajectory, March 11 demonstrated the depth of the
nation’s political and social inertia. It also was a reminder
that many of the biggest risks Japanese face -- earthquakes,
Chinese pollution,  North Korea ’s threats -- are beyond their
control. Voters were so disillusioned that they even re-elected
the  Liberal Democratic Party , which they tossed out in disgust
in 2009.  Acceptance is now the norm with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
back at the helm after a dismal 2006-2007 stint in the job.
Voters seem resigned to let Abe reopen more than 50 nuclear
reactors knocked offline two years ago. Call it the period of
“shoganai,” or accepting one’s fate and enduring it.  For now, hopes for Japan’s rebirth are sending the  Nikkei
225 Stock Average (NKY)  soaring and putting the economy back into the
global spotlight. Yet optimism about “Abenomics” is mostly an
overseas phenomenon. Even though they elected his party, few
Japanese seem to view him as the savior they have been waiting
decades for.  Confidence Game  That’s why the acquiescence  stage  now at hand is so
worrisome. The only way to beat deflation is to convince
investors, companies and consumers that prices will be markedly
higher five years from now. It’s great that Abe is boosting
fiscal stimulus and that the  Bank of Japan  will soon be under
new leadership. But it’s a confidence game. Winning it requires
more than pumping money into a comatose economy.  Abenomics may look like it’s a new set of economic
policies, but it’s really a marketing strategy. Its early
effectiveness is evidenced by the yen’s plunge and how it’s
cheering exporters. But Abe, too, is falling prey to his own
acceptance process: sticking to the same old debt-fueled growth
strategies while promising new and improved results.  Unless Abe deregulates the economy, improves a corporate-
governance system that produced the fraud at  Olympus Corp. (7733) ,
severs the incestuous ties between government and business that
enabled Tepco’s incompetence, and finds safer energy sources
before the next giant quake, he will just produce Japan’s next
asset bubble.  The risk is that the Japanese are giving Abe a blank check
to heal their traumatized nation. Without a bigger and better-
targeted plan, it may all end in a new cycle of grief.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  