-- GVK, Aurizon Sign Pact to Jointly Develop Australian Coal Rail
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-03-11T04:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/gvk-aurizon-sign-pact-to-jointly-develop-australian-coal-rail.html
GVK Group (GVKP) , the Indian developer of
a $10 billion coal mine in Australia part-owned by  Gina Rinehart , signed a pact with  Aurizon Holdings Ltd. (AZJ)  to jointly
develop a rail line and port in Queensland state.  Brisbane-based Aurizon, Australia’s biggest transporter of
coal by rail, would acquire 51 percent in Hancock Coal
Infrastructure Pty as part of the non-binding agreement, Aurizon
and GVK said today in a joint statement.  “The proposed relationship with Aurizon would allow us to
jointly develop the most cost and time efficient rail and port
solution for the Galilee Basin,” G.V. Sanjay Reddy, GVK vice-
chairman, said in the statement.  GVK, which plans to ship coal to  India  for electricity
generation, is seeking $7 billion in debt and $3 billion in
equity to fund the project, it said in October. The company
bought the thermal coal assets in 2011 from Rinehart, Asia’s
richest woman, for $1.26 billion. Rinehart’s Hancock Prospecting
Pty retains a 21 percent stake in the Alpha mine asset.  A number of companies have advanced plans to mine coal in
the Galilee Basin, located about 500 kilometers (310 miles) from
Australia’s east coast. The proposals, including from  Vale SA (VALE3) 
and India’s Adani Group, have struggled with the high expense of
building greenfield mines, rail and port facilities, as thermal
coal prices retreated.  GVK’s project is expected to deliver export capacity of 60
million metric tons of coal, according to the statement. Aurizon
and GVK will update the market when the parties execute final
agreements on all terms of the proposal, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  