-- IAG Backs Arbiter’s Iberia Job-Cuts Plan After Compromise on Pay
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-03-11T16:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/iag-accepts-spanish-mediator-s-proposal-in-iberia-labor-dispute.html
British Airways (IAG)  parent IAG backed a
mediator’s plan for about 3,140 job cuts at unprofitable Spanish
unit Iberia after offering concessions that won union backing.  IAG’s board voted to approve a deal that pares job losses
from the 3,807 it had pledged to drive through in the absence of
a negotiated settlement, according to a statement today. Most
labor groups accepted a package that also prunes pay cuts and
shortens a salary freeze, though pilots have yet to sign up.  IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  is seeking a 600
million-euro ($780 million) earnings turnaround at Iberia by
2015 after the Madrid-based business propelled  Europe ’s third-
largest airline group to an operating loss of 23 million euros
last year. The plan proposed by Spanish mediator Gregorio Tudela
would cut pay as much as 14 percent, with no raise before 2016.  “If accepted by the unions, this would see an end to
strikes at Iberia and lead to a smoother turnaround,” said
James Hollins, a London-based analyst at Investec with a “buy”
rating on IAG stock. “Salary cuts should ensure that there is
no slippage in timing of driving Iberia back to profitability.”  Shares of IAG , as International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA is known, closed 0.2 percent lower at 245.70 pence in  London .
They’ve gained 33 percent this year, valuing the company at 4.56
billion pounds ($6.8 billion).  Ratification Required  Unions still have to submit the proposal to members for
ratification, Manuel Atienza, a spokesman for the UGT union,
said by telephone, while the Sepla pilots’ body hasn’t indicated
whether it will back the deal. Labor groups will discuss details
over the next 48 hours before meeting the mediator and Iberia
management on March 13 to formally endorse the terms, he said.  The job cuts match the number of posts Walsh had initially
stipulated must go as part of a negotiated deal including lower
pay, before saying the equivalent of more than 3,800 would need
to be cut when talks on staffing levels and contracts failed.  Atienza added that the  workforce reduction  is acceptable
“because of the new conditions.” IAG agreed to fund redundancies
by dropping a planned link to productivity gains, while salaries
will be reduced by 14 percent for pilots and cabin crew and 7
percent for ground staff, down from as much as 35 percent under
previous offers, which also sought to freeze pay until 2017.  To improve IAG’s financial performance in  Spain , Walsh last
year established a new unit Iberia Express, with less-generous
contracts, and that business has been profitable.  The CEO also initiated a takeover bid for Barcelona-based
discount carrier  Vueling Airlines SA. (VLG)  The Vueling board last
week rejected a 7 euros-a-share proposal that IAG made for the
54.14 percent of stock it does not already own.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  