-- ICE Plans to Cap Trading Fees for Cocoa, Sugar, Coffee in London
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-03-11T06:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/ice-plans-to-cap-trading-fees-for-cocoa-sugar-coffee-in-london.html
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  will
cap trading fees for Liffe coffee, sugar and cocoa futures at
the same level as its energy contracts for five years after its
$8.2 billion takeover of NYSE Euronext, the company said.  ICE will keep the three contracts based in London, a
presentation from the Atlanta-based operator showed. Other
European commodity futures such as milling wheat will be part of
a potential Euronext initial public offering, it said.  The boards of ICE and NYSE Euronext approved the merger in
December and expect to complete the transaction in the second
half. Once the deal is done, ICE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Sprecher  will have expanded an oil exchange he bought in London
in 2001 into the world’s second-biggest futures market by
volume, Futures Industry Association data show.  The trading fee is now 82 cents per side per lot for ICE
Brent, West Texas Intermediate crude and gasoil contracts and
the equivalent of 80 cents for Liffe coffee, cocoa and sugar
contracts, the presentation showed.  Fees for against actuals and exchange-for-physicals will be
capped at the level of ICE energy contracts, or $1.32, it said.
The levy is $1.56 for the Liffe futures, the slides showed.  Product committees will be set up for the Liffe coffee,
cocoa and sugar contracts, similar to those operated by ICE
Futures U.S., the bourse said. It will consult the committee on
the “appropriate trading currency for cocoa.” Cocoa in  London 
trades in pounds. The Wall Street Journal and Reuters reported
the ICE presentation previously.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  