-- Military’s Sexual-Assault Rules Need Review, Hagel Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-03-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/military-s-sexual-assault-rules-need-review-hagel-says.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said
the Pentagon will review whether U.S. military commanders should
continue to have the power to overturn a conviction by court-
martial in sexual-assault cases.  The move came in response to U.S. lawmakers’ protests over
a case at Aviano Air Base in  Italy , where a conviction of
aggravated sexual assault reached in a court-martial last year
was overturned by the so-called convening authority, Air Force
Lieutenant General Craig Franklin.  Lieutenant Colonel James Wilkerson was convicted by a
military jury last year after he allegedly groped a physician’s
assistant as she slept in a guest bedroom at his home. Franklin,
who convened the court-martial as commander of the Third Air
Force, dismissed the case last month, calling the evidence
insufficient.  “I believe this case does raise a significant question
whether it is necessary or appropriate to place the convening
authority in the position of having the responsibility to review
the findings and sentence of a court-martial,” Hagel wrote in a
letter to senators released yesterday.  The overturning of the conviction added to debate about how
effectively the military acts to protect personnel from sexual
assaults and how forcefully it prosecutes wrongdoing. The
Defense Department has estimated there are about 19,000 sexual
assaults a year in the military, based on anonymous surveys of
the active-duty force, although the number of reported cases is
smaller. There were 3,192 reported assaults in 2011.  ‘No Justice’  Representative Jackie Speier, a  California  Democrat and a
member of the House Armed Services Committee, said she plans to
introduce a bill today to strip military commanders of the power
to overturn verdicts or sentences issued by judges and juries at
courts-martial.  “There is no justice in a military system that allows a
general to overturn the decision of a judge or jury in a court
martial,” Speier said in an e-mailed statement. “Generals are
not above the law.”  Hagel directed the secretary of the Air Force and the
Pentagon’s acting general counsel to review the Aviano case to
determine whether changes should be made to the Uniform Code of
Military Justice, he said in his letter. The role of the
convening authority also will be reviewed by an independent
panel that will examine the prosecution of sexual assault
crimes, he said.  Democratic Senators Barbara Boxer of California and Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire, who had asked Hagel to review the case
at Aviano, said they were encouraged by his response.  ‘High Time’  “I am heartened that Secretary Hagel is taking immediate
action to review the facts of this troubling case and
acknowledge that it is high time to take a hard look at how the
military handles sexual assault cases,” Boxer said in a
statement. “I believe that we should end the ability of senior
commanders to unilaterally overturn a decision or sentence by a
military court and from the tenor of his letter, I am hopeful
that Secretary Hagel will reach the same conclusion.”  Under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, the decision of
the convening authority is final and can’t be changed by the
secretary of defense, Hagel said in his letter.  In the Aviano case, Hagel said Franklin “concluded that
the entire body of evidence was insufficient to meet the burden
of proof beyond a reasonable doubt.”  Wilkerson, a former inspector general of the 31st Fighter
Wing at Aviano, was found guilty in November of aggravated
sexual assault and sentenced to a year in jail, forfeiture of
all pay and dismissal from the Air Force. Franklin overturned
the verdict last month.  Lackland Scandal  The Air Force was rocked by a sexual-assault scandal last
year at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio,  Texas , which
provides training to all Air Force recruits. At least five
military instructors have been convicted of sexual assaults or
unprofessional relationships with trainees or students. An
investigation identified 23 alleged offenders and 48 alleged
victims, according to a report by the Air Education and Training
Command.  The Senate Armed Services Committee is scheduled to hold a
hearing on sexual assaults in the military tomorrow.  For Related News and Information:
Wingman Rule to Curb Sexual Abuse Adopted by U.S. Air Force  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  