-- IMF Says Egypt Has Option of Seeking Emergency Stopgap Funding
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2013-03-11T15:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/imf-says-egypt-has-option-of-seeking-emergency-stopgap-funding.html
Egypt  has the option of requesting
rapid funding under an emergency International Monetary Fund
lending program before reaching a broader loan agreement, an IMF
spokeswoman said.  It’s up to Egyptian authorities to decide whether to
request support under the fund’s Rapid Financing Instrument,
which offers “rapid—but limited—financial assistance to member
countries facing an urgent balance of payments need,” Wafa Amr
said in response to e-mailed questions. “Egypt needs bold and
ambitious policy actions to address its economic and financial
challenges without further delay.”  The political bickering and tensions plaguing Egypt’s
transition since the 2011 uprising have prolonged its bid to
secure a $4.8 billion loan from the fund. The country’s
international reserves plunged more than 60 percent from their
end-2010 levels. Egyptian officials have said the IMF loan is
necessary to boost investor confidence and unlock other funds.  The yield on Egypt’s benchmark dollar bond rose to a nine-
month high of 7.27 percent at 5 p.m. in Cairo. It has risen
about 170 basis points in the past two months amid sometimes
violent unrest on the streets and concern that an IMF loan may
be delayed.  The RFI “could be an option if there is a need for interim
financing while a strong medium-term policy program is being put
in place,” Amr said.  Not Needed  Yesterday, Egypt’s Planning and International Cooperation
Minister Ashraf el-Arabi said Egypt is “not in need” of an
emergency loan from the fund and is instead focusing on
completing the loan agreement with the lender.  “Egypt wants to implement the fiscal and economic reform
program as we have a number of structural problems,” he said.  It’s “unlikely that the IMF would leave the Egyptian
government high and dry” even if a full program can’t be agreed
immediately, William Jackson and Jason Tuvey at Capital
Economics in  London  wrote in a report sent by e-mail today. They
cited “speculation” that the Fund may offer an RFI arrangement
until after Egypt’s elections, and said the  country’s political
importance means it can also get funds from allies such as the
U.S., Qatar and  Turkey .  A court this month ordered a halt to legislative elections
which were supposed to start in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  