-- Indian Stocks Retreat, End Four-Day Advance; Hero Leads Decline
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-03-11T10:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/india-s-nifty-equity-futures-gain-signaling-advances-for-stocks.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stocks fell for the first
time in five days as some investors judged last week’s rally may
have outpaced the outlook for interest rate cuts by the central
bank.  The S&P BSE Sensex lost 0.4 percent to 19,608.76 at the
3:30 p.m. preliminary close in Mumbai. Volumes on the measure
were 15 percent below the 30-day average.  Hero Motocorp Ltd. (HMCL) ,
 India  biggest motorcycle maker, fell for the first time in five
days.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s largest software
services exporter, paced decline among its peers.  The Sensex jumped 4 percent last week, its steepest weekly
gain since November, amid speculation the  Reserve Bank  of India
will cut  interest rates  at its policy review on March 19. That
pushed the gauge’s valuation to 13.8 times  projected 12-month
profits , compared with 13.3 times at the end of February, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Valuations have gone up again as expectations of a rate
cut is getting built in,” Mehraboon Jamshed Irani, principal
and head of private client group at Nirmal Bang Securities in
Mumbai, told Bloomberg TV India today.  The Sensex fell for five straight weeks through March 1,
reaching a three-month low on Feb. 28, as profits at companies
from  Tata Motors (TTMT)  to  State Bank of India  trailed  estimates  for
the December quarter and a government report showed that the
pace of the economic growth in the final three months of 2012
was the  weakest  in almost four years.  Overseas funds bought a net $127 million worth of stocks on
March 7, taking their net investment in local equities this year
to $8.73 billion, a record for the period, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. They bought a net $24.5 billion worth of shares
last year, the most among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  