-- India’s Larsen Barred From World Bank Contracts for 6 Months
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   P h a n g   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-03-11T05:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/india-s-larsen-barred-from-world-bank-contracts-for-six-months.html
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s
biggest builder of power networks and airports, has been barred
from World Bank-financed contracts for six months under the
lender’s fraud and corruption policy.  Larsen is ineligible to be awarded a contract from March 7
to Sept. 6 this year, according to a  listing  published on the
 World Bank ’s website. The sanctions aren’t expected to have a
“material impact” on the company’s operations, profitability
or financials, Mumbai-based Larsen said in a  statement  to the
stock exchange on March 9.  The builder was declared ineligible to bid for World Bank-
funded contracts because of misrepresentation or omission of
facts to influence a procurement process or the execution of a
contract, according to the lender’s rules. The sanctions come as
Larsen is scouting for overseas contracts as slowing economic
growth damp demand in  India .  “The ban isn’t going to affect Larsen’s ability to win
orders in the long run,” said Jinal Joshi, a Mumbai-based
analyst with BOB Capital Markets Ltd. who recommends buying the
stock. “It’s only the sentiments that will be affected and may
be they’ll lose out on a couple of opportunities in the short
term.”  Larsen declined as much as 2.8 percent to 1,455.25 rupees
and changed hands at 1,487.55 rupees at 10:15 a.m. in Mumbai
trading. The stock has fallen 7.4 percent this year, compared
with the S&P BSE Sensex’s 1.4 percent gain.  Violation of Rules  Larsen hasn’t been working on World Bank-financed contracts
since March 2011 when the violation of rules by an employee in
2008 was first noticed, Deepak Morada, a spokesman for the
company, said in a telephone interview today.  “The act of one employee doesn’t reflect the code of
conduct of the organization,” Morada said. “The employee has
been let go,” he said without giving further details.  Overseas projects accounted for 19 percent of Larsen’s
revenue in the year ended in March 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Chief Executive Officer Krishnamurthi Venkataramanan is counting on more orders from utilities and the
oil and gas industry.  In December 2008, the World Bank imposed an eight-year ban
on India’s Satyam Computer Services Ltd. for providing
“improper benefits” to bank employees. Two weeks later, Satyam
Chairman  Ramalinga Raju  admitted to an accounting fraud,
prompting India’s government to fire the company’s board. Satyam
was later acquired by Tech Mahindra Ltd.  Billionaire  Azim Premji ’s Wipro Ltd. said in January 2009
that it had been barred by the World Bank more than 18 months
earlier for four years. The software exporter was barred from
June 2007 for offering World Bank employees shares in its stock
offer in the U.S. in 2000.  The purchase didn’t violate any ethics or conflict of
interest policies, Wipro had said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  