-- Indian Rupee Drops Most in More Than a Week on Deficit Concerns
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-03-11T11:58:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/indian-rupee-drops-most-in-more-than-a-week-on-deficit-concerns.html
India ’s rupee dropped the most in
more than a week on concern slowing capital inflows will make it
more difficult to finance the nation’s record current-account
deficit.  Global funds bought a net $491 million of Indian stocks
this month through March 7 after  adding  more than $4 billion in
each of the past three months, exchange data show. The currency
strengthened briefly after a government report showed the  trade
deficit  narrowed to $14.9 billion in February from about $20
billion the previous month. Exports rose 4.2 percent from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in 12 months. Imports climbed 2.6
percent.  “The challenge posed by the external accounts remains
significant and remains the key medium-term risk,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Scotiabank in
 Hong Kong . “Any event that interrupts financial-account inflows
will be exacerbated by the trade deficit and hinder the rupee’s
ability to sustain stronger levels.”  The rupee declined 0.2 percent to 54.4125 per dollar in
Mumbai, the biggest loss since March 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It rose as much as 0.2 percent earlier.
One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, rose seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 9.25 percent.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against six
trading partners, approached its highest level in seven months
after reports last week showed the jobless rate dropped and
employment increased.  Current Account  The shortfall in India’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, is a “greater worry” than the nation’s
fiscal deficit, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in
his Feb. 28 budget speech. The gap, a record 4.2 percent of
gross domestic product in the 12 months through March 2012, is
expected to be “significantly higher” this year, central bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Feb. 11.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 55.45 per
dollar, compared with 55.34 on March 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 55.40 versus 55.36. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  