-- Iran, Pakistan Begin Border Gas Pipe Amid Sanctions Threat
-- B y   A u g u s t i n e   A n t h o n y ,   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-03-11T11:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/iran-pakistan-begin-cross-border-gas-pipe-amid-sanctions-threat.html
The presidents of  Pakistan  and  Iran 
inaugurated work on the cross-border leg of a gas pipeline that
the U.S. has warned may breach a sanctions regime aimed at
curbing the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program.  Pakistan’s benchmark KSE 100  share index  plunged 2.5
percent in Karachi, the biggest drop in almost two months, as
the news sparked concerns the U.S. would impose penalties.  Asif Ali Zardari, on his second trip to Iran within a
month, joined Iran’s Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the country’s Oil
Minister Rostam Qasemi in the southern port city of Chabahar for
the ground-breaking ceremony, Pakistan state television showed.
The leaders offered a prayer for the project’s success and
uncovered a plaque at the construction site.  Once completed, the 1,931-kilometer (1,200-mile) natural
 gas pipeline  would help alleviate the energy crisis in Pakistan,
where 18-hour blackouts last summer forced factories to close
and triggered street protests. Iran is under U.S. and European
Union restrictions over its atomic activities, measures that
have curbed oil exports and complicated the repatriation of cash
from crude sales.  Pakistan’s decision to proceed with the $1.3 billion energy
link comes amid a bid to repair relations with the U.S., the
South Asian nation’s biggest aid donor, after damaging setbacks
including the killing of  Osama bin Laden  by American commandos
in Pakistan in 2011 and a cross-border U.S. airstrike that
killed 24 Pakistani soldiers. The U.S. needs Islamabad’s support
as it withdraws combat forces from  Afghanistan .  Oil Refinery  Ahmadinejad attacked opponents of the pipeline in a speech
at the ceremony, drawing parallels between Iran and Pakistan.  “Foreigners are seeking to create divisions between
nations in the region in order to control them and rob them of
their wealth,” he said. “The only way for regional nations to
safeguard their independence, identity, culture and wealth is
through cooperation and unity.”  Iran has completed 900 kilometers of the pipeline on its
side of the border, according to the website of Pakistan’s
Interstate Gas Systems Pvt. Ltd., which will oversee
construction in Pakistan. Under an accord signed in June 2010,
Iran will provide about 21.5 million cubic meters of gas a day
to Pakistan for 25 years. The deal can be extended by five years
and volumes may rise to 30 million cubic meters a day.  The two countries are also expected to sign an agreement
today to build a $4 billion oil refinery in Pakistan’s Gwadar,
the state-run Press TV news channel reported.  ‘Serious Concerns’  Work on extending the pipeline into Pakistan has been
delayed by difficulties in arranging funding. The ground-
breaking ceremony comes just days before Pakistan’s government,
headed by Zardari’s party, is to hand over power to a caretaker
administration ahead of parliamentary elections in May. The
president’s term expires in September.  The U.S., which has offered to help Pakistan secure gas via
an alternate route from Central Asia, has recently reiterated
its concerns over the pipeline.  “If this deal is finalized for a proposed Iran-Pakistan
pipeline, it would raise serious concerns under our Iran
Sanctions Act,”  Victoria Nuland , U.S. State Department
spokeswoman, told a weekly briefing in  Washington  March 7. The
U.S. hopes Pakistani won’t “go in a direction that would cause
sanctions to kick in,” Nuland said, according to a  transcript 
posted on the State Department website.  While Pakistan is aware of concerns in Washington, “all
our friends including the U.S.” should show greater
understanding of the country’s energy needs, Pakistan Foreign
Office spokesman Moazzam Ahmad Khan told reporters March 7.  The pipeline would transport gas from the South Pars field
in Iran via Baluchistan province in southwest Pakistan to an
off-take point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Augustine Anthony in Islamabad at 
 aanthony9@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  