-- Iran Allocates $2.7 Billion for Southern Oil Refinery, Mehr Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-03-11T10:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/iran-allocates-2-7-billion-for-southern-oil-refinery-mehr-says.html
Iran  has allocated 2.1 billion
euros ($2.7 billion) to build an  oil refinery  in the southern
Hormozgan province that will begin operations this year, state-
run  Mehr  news agency reported, citing an energy official.  Iran is halfway through the construction of the plant,
which will add 27.6 million liters to the country’s daily
gasoline output, said Ebrahim Azizi, governor general of the
 Hormozgan  province where the Persian Gulf Star facility is
located. The refinery will also produce about 14 million liters
of diesel, 3.8 million of liquefied petroleum gas, and 3.3
million of  jet fuel , Azizi said, according to Mehr today.  In the first phase of its operations, scheduled to start
before June, the site will be able to refine 120,000 barrels of
condensates a day, Azizi was quoted as saying by the official
 Islamic Republic News Agency  yesterday.  Iran, one of the largest oil producers in the Middle-East,
used to rely on imported gasoline because of smuggling and a
lack of refining capacity. Since 2007, Iran has managed to curb
its domestic consumption by rationing subsidized gasoline and
phasing out energy subsidies. In 2011, authorities said the
nation has become self-sufficient in gasoline production amid
energy and trade sanctions imposed over its nuclear program and
started exporting the fuel.  The Gulf state shipped more than $52 million of the fuel in
the past 12 months, which represents a 100 percent increase from
the year-earlier period, Tehran Times reported on March 6.
Export destinations include Armenia, Afghanistan, the U.A.E,
Iraq and Oman, Mehr said today.  Iran may build “small refineries” in  Algeria , Angola and
 South Africa ,  Tehran Times  reported today, citing an
unidentified person, without providing any details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  