-- ISE Renews CBOE Automated-Markets Patent Court Fight
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-11T17:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/ise-renews-cboe-automated-markets-patent-court-fight.html
International Securities Exchange
LLC, an electronic options-trading forum, is set to renew legal
hostilities with  Chicago Board Options Exchange  Inc. in a fight
over an automated trading patent.  Jury selection began today at the federal courthouse in
Chicago for a trial that U.S. District Judge Joan Lefkow told
the prospective panelists may last into early April. The case is
one of at least four legal disputes between Deutsche Borse AG-
owned ISE and  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , the Chicago-based operator of
the biggest U.S. options exchange.  “The evidence will establish that CBOE deliberately copied
ISE’s patented system for executing trades,” New York-based ISE
said in a court filing last month.  Competition is increasing among derivatives-exchange
operators including NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  ISE
in a March 1 regulatory filing revealed plans to start a second
options market called Topaz which, if approved, would be the
12th such U.S. forum. Nasdaq OMX owns three of the venues while
CBOE and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  have two each.  ISE’s patent scrap with the Chicago Board Options Exchange
began with a complaint filed in federal court in  Manhattan  in
2006. The case was transferred to Chicago after CBOE counter-
sued there, seeking a finding of non-infringement.  Lost Profits  ISE seeks a royalty and lost profits, as well as either an
injunction barring further infringement or royalties for the
balance of the patent’s life. The patent expires in 2019.  Lefkow, in a ruling dated March 10 and posted on the
court’s electronic docket today, said she will bar ISE from
presenting evidence of pre-suit damages. The New York-based
exchange failed to comply with a federal “marking statute,”
requiring it to make public its patent claim, the judge said.  “Although ISE sufficiently pleaded CBOE’s knowledge of the
patent and its infringement, ISE did not disclose its theory
that it was not required to mark because it did not make or sell
the invention after issuance of the patent,” prejudicing CBOE
as it prepared for trial, Lefkow said.  The statutory punishment for that failure is that damages
can only be recovered for that time period after notice of
infringement is given, according to the judge’s ruling.  Used Elsewhere  CBOE contends in court papers that ISE did nothing more
than acquire a patent for a method that had already been used
elsewhere.  “Automating such floor-based trading is far from new,”
the  Chicago  exchange’s lawyers said in a pretrial brief filed
last month. CBOE argued that the ISE patent claims lack
innovation and should be declared invalid.  Lefkow declared the patent invalid in March 2011. A federal
appeals court reversed that ruling in May.  While the process of selecting eight jurors began today,
the judge told candidates for service they won’t begin hearing
evidence until March 14. Lefkow will hear arguments on still-
pending pretrial motions tomorrow and on March 13, according to
her ruling.  C2 Options Exchange Inc., an all-electronic exchange owned
by CBOE Holdings, in August sued ISE seeking a declaratory
judgment that it too is not infringing the same patent at issue
in the trial.  Chicago U.S. District Judge Matthew Kennelly in January
denied ISE’s bid for dismissal of that complaint. It filed an
answer on Jan. 28.  Case Transferred  CBOE, in a separate lawsuit filed in Chicago last year,
accused ISE of infringing patents related to quote-risk
monitoring and quote-modification. That case, in which CBOE
seeks at least $525 million in damages, has been transferred to
federal court in  New York .  An  Illinois  appeals court last year rejected ISE’s bid to
overturn a court order barring it from providing a forum for
trading S&P 500 index options. ISE had been sued by McGraw-Hill
Cos., parent of  Standard & Poor’s , and CBOE, which claims an
exclusive license to offer S&P 500-based options.  ISE has asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review that ruling.  The cases are Chicago Board Options Exchange Inc. v.
International Securities Exchange LLC, 07-cv-00623, and
International Securities Exchange LLC v. Chicago Board Options
Exchange Inc., 07-cv-04709, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 