-- Israel Likely to Be Next Target of Syrian Rebels, General Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-03-11T19:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/israel-likely-to-be-next-target-of-syrian-rebels-general-says.html
Israel ’s military chief of staff
warned that some of the rebel forces trying to topple Syrian
President Bashar Assad may soon turn their attention southward
and attack Israeli settlements in the Golan Heights.  “We see terror organizations that are increasingly gaining
footholds in the territory and they are fighting against
Assad,” Lieutenant-General Benny Gantz said today at a
conference in Herzliya, north of Tel Aviv. “Guess what? We’ll
be next in line.”  Fighting between forces loyal to Assad and rebels who want
to end his family’s rule in Syria has left almost 70,000 people
dead, according to the United Nations. The U.S. and its allies
have sought ways to support  Syria ’s opposition without allowing
arms to reach the hands of rebel groups associated with
terrorist groups such as Al-Qaeda.  Israel captured the Golan plateau from Syria in the 1967
Six Day War and the Israeli population in 32 settlements built
in the occupied territory numbers about 20,000, according to
government census records. Shells from rebel forces landed in
two settlements over the past two weeks without causing
significant damage, the Israeli army says.  The Herzliya Conference is an annual meeting on security
and economic issues attended by policy makers, business
executives and academics. While Gantz spoke last year about the
need to prepare for striking  Iran  if economic sanctions fail to
stop it from developing nuclear weapons, he chose to skip the
subject this time.  Iran “is on my mind every day and every week, but that is
not what I want to talk about today,” he said.  The conference comes a week before President  Barack Obama 
visits Israel, where Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said
Iran will be the top issue of discussion, followed by Syria and
renewing peace efforts with the Palestinians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  