-- Israeli Defenses to Lockheed Planes Win in House Measure
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-11T20:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/israeli-defenses-to-lockheed-planes-win-in-house-measure.html
House-passed legislation that would
ease the effects of automatic budget cuts on troop training and
operations also would bolster funds for  Israel ’s missile
defenses and weapons made by  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)   The measure would shift as much as $380 million this year
to expand Israel’s missile defenses, $437 million to add seven
C-130J transport aircraft from Lockheed, and $1 billion to buy
three DDG-51 Aegis class destroyers made by General Dynamics and
 Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  instead of two.  The defense provisions were part of a stopgap spending
measure the House passed last week to keep the government
operating through the Sept. 30 end of the fiscal year. The
Senate plans to take up its version of the so-called continuing
resolution this week, with Democrats in that chamber seeking to
add more spending flexibility for some domestic programs.  Attention has focused on defense provisions in the House
measure that would cushion some effects of the $46 billion in
across-the-board budget cuts called sequestration by
incorporating an updated  defense spending  bill for this year.
The measure would add $10 billion to operations and maintenance
while letting the Pentagon shift as much as $4 billion among
accounts to cover other contingencies.  Reductions Possible  The measure also would shift defense funds to priorities
that members of the House and Senate appropriation committees
had agreed on for a fiscal 2013 spending bill that never became
law. The winners are spelled out in charts accompanying the
spending bill.  Even if the House-passed measure becomes law, the funds for
programs favored by the appropriators may be reduced as the
Pentagon applies sequestration, which effectively requires a 13
percent cut in each category of weapons over seven months.  Dollars that lawmakers shifted came from numerous accounts,
including a reduction of $3.5 billion in the military personnel
account. This incorporates planned reductions by 2017 in Army
and Marine Corps forces and small cuts in funding for the
transfer of troops to new assignments.  Reductions also were taken from weapons and research
programs that lawmakers said were behind schedule or otherwise
able to absorb revisions.  Israel’s Defense  The money added for Israel’s missile defenses include an
extra $211 million for the Iron Dome defense system, praised for
defending Israel against Hamas rockets last year, as well as
$55.7 million for the system called Israel’s Arrow and $111.4
million for one named David’s Sling.  Lawmakers shifted $605 million to buy 11 additional F/A-
18E/F fighters from Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  as part of a
pending multi-year contract.  They also provided $300 million to buy more Patriot
Advanced Capability-3 interceptors from Bethesda,  Maryland  based
Lockheed and $181 million for upgrades the Army says it doesn’t
need for the M1A2 tank made by Falls Church, Virginia-based
General Dynamics.  An additional $777 million was shifted to the Navy’s
Virginia-class submarine program built jointly by  Newport News ,
Virginia-based Huntington Ingalls and General Dynamics as a
downpayment for a second vessel in fiscal 2014.  Lawmakers shifted $352 million to buy an additional AN/TPY-
2 mobile missile defense radar and 17 additional naval missile
defense Standard Missile 3-IB interceptors from  Raytheon Co. (RTN) 
based in Waltham,  Massachusetts .  Gun Canceled  As for reductions, lawmakers cut $50 million from funds to
modify Patriot missiles, citing a “radar digital processor”
delay. Similarly, $100 million was cut from the Army’s $518
million request for the MQ-1 Gray Eagle, a drone made by San
Diego-based General Atomics, on the basis of schedule delays.  An additional $25 million was saved when the Army canceled
plans for a lightweight .50-caliber machine gun.  The lawmakers made two large reductions to the General
Dynamics WIN-T Army ground mobile network program. With a delay
in the contract award cited, $346 million cut from the $892
million request for the program’s “Increment 2” version. Also
cut was $96 million from the $276 million request for the
program’s “Increment 3” version, due to “excess growth.”  The  Missile Defense Agency ’s $297 million request for
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s experimental missile defense
“precision tracking” space system was reduced by $55 million.  F-35 Funds  The Navy’s $1 billion request for the F-35B, the Marine
model of Lockheed’s Joint Strike Fighter, was nicked $44 million
by lawmakers citing “cost growth” of the engine made by  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit.  Also, $30 million was trimmed from the  Air Force ’s $3.5
billion F-35 procurement request, with lawmakers citing an
“unjustified increase” for “ancillary equipment.”  The F-35, the Pentagon’s costliest weapon system, still
would get most of the Pentagon’s requested $9.1 billion research
and procurement request for 29 aircraft in funding over the next
seven months.  Explanation Sought  Separately, lawmakers want the Pentagon to explain why
negotiations with Lockheed for past F-35 contracts dragged on a
year, according to language in the pending bill.  Contract award delays may have “negative impacts” on the
F-35 subcontractor workforce, lawmakers wrote.  Lawmakers called for a report within four months after the
spending measure is signed into law that “should examine the
causes of contract award delays and the planned corrective
actions” to ensure negotiations are completed and awards made
in a more timely manner.  The Pentagon and Lockheed took a year to complete
negotiations and award in December the final installment of a
$3.8 billion, fifth production contract for 32 aircraft.  The service’s $861 million request for the E-2D Hawkeye
surveillance aircraft from  Falls Church , Virginia-based Northrop
was cut $28 million on the basis of “airframe cost growth.”  An Air Force request of $283 million to upgrade Lockheed’s
F-22 fighter was trimmed $17.1 million, on the basis of “excess
cost growth” for engine modifications.  The House-passed legislation is H.R. 933.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  