-- Italian Banks Slide After Fitch Downgrades Country’s Debt Rating
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-03-11T10:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/italian-banks-slide-after-fitch-downgrades-country-s-debt-rating.html
Italian banks including  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  fell in Milan trading after  Fitch Ratings  cut the country’s
credit rating and said some lenders may need extra capital.  UniCredit, Italy’s largest bank, dropped as much as 2.5
percent, and fell 8 cents at 3.87 euros at 10:35 a.m.  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the second-biggest lender,  declined  1.7 percent to
1.24 euros and Mediobanca SpA slid 3.7 percent to 4.51 euros.
The  FTSE Italia All-Share Banks Index (ITLMS)  dropped 2 percent.  Fitch lowered Italy’s credit rating one level to BBB+ after
markets closed last week, saying inconclusive parliamentary
elections in February threatened the government’s ability to
respond to a recession and the  European debt crisis .  “If the recession is deeper and longer than currently
anticipated, the risk that the government may be required to
make further injections of capital, beyond the Monte dei Paschi
recapitalization, cannot be discounted,” Fitch said, referring
to  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,  Italy ’s third-biggest
lender, which is due to receive a second government bailout.  Banks also declined after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reduced
its price estimates for the lenders. UniCredit was cut to 5.8
euros from 6.33 euros, Intesa to 1.71 euros from 1.8 euros and
Monte Paschi to 0.22 euros from 0.32 euros, Goldman said in an
e-mailed report today.  Intesa and UniCredit are among Italian banks due to report
losses for the fourth quarter this week, as the economic
contraction meant more clients failed to repay their debts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  