-- Italy’s Grillo Says He Quits If Members Back PD Government
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-11T16:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/italy-s-grillo-threatens-to-quit-politics-if-members-support-pd.html
Beppe Grillo, the comedian-turned
politician whose Five-Star Movement won 25 percent of the vote
in last month’s Italian elections, said he would quit politics
if his party members support a government led by Pier Luigi Bersani’s Democratic Party.  “If there were a confidence vote by the parliamentary
group of the Five-Star Movement in favor of the ones that have
destroyed  Italy , I would retire from politics,” Grillo said
late yesterday in a post on Twitter.  The Democratic Party won a majority in the parliament’s
Chamber of Deputies, while Grillo and former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  each won blocking minorities in the Senate.
Bersani would need to win a confidence vote in the Senate to
govern, so gaining support of Grillo’s forces would be critical.  Bersani last week presented an eight-point program for a
possible administration, focusing on fighting corruption and
shrinking the size and cost of government, issues that have been
central to Grillo’s platform and electoral success. While some
Five-Star members have signaled they’d be open to tacitly
supporting Bersani taking power, Grillo’s Twitter  post  seems to
shut the door on any type of alliance.  The PD is “not in a position on its own to ensure a
government for this country,” Bersani said today at a  Rome 
meeting of his party’s lawmakers.  Internal Referendum  Grillo said he won’t consult his party members on whether
to support the PD’s efforts to support a government.  “There won’t be any internal referendum to ask for support
for a government of the PD minus the ‘L’ or any kind of pseudo-
technical government,” he wrote on Twitter, signaling that he
sees little difference between the  Democratic Party , or PD, and
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty Party, the PDL.  The new parliament will meet for the first time on March 15
and will begin choosing leaders before President Giorgio
Napolitano starts consultations with parties to see if anyone
can muster the support to put together a government. As Bersani
won a majority in the lower house, he will probably get the
first chance to test support.  Grillo has said the only option his party would support
would be for Napolitano to ask Five Star to form a government.  Roberta Lombardi, the newly elected head of the Five Star
in the Lower Chamber said today that any Five Movement lawmaker
who backs the PD in a confidence vote will be expelled from the
party, Ansa newswire reported.  Funding Challenge  One of the eight points Bersani included last week in his
program for a government was to review the system of public
party funding. Grillo challenged the PD today to put that
commitment in practice by refusing to accept “more than 45
million euros” ($58.6 million) of election reimbursements
Bersani’s party is entitled from the Rome-based Parliament.  In a  post  on his website entitled ’Bersani: sign here’ the
Five Star leader said that his party will return about 42.8
million euros of reimbursements “that belong to citizens,”
citing a 1993 referendum that saw more than 90 percent of
Italians voting in favor of the abolition of public financing.  Florence Mayor Matteo Renzi, who challenged Bersani for the
party leadership, said on March 9 that he would also abolish the
election reimbursements.  “If Bersani added to his eight points the abolition of the
public funding to parties, that would be a serious act, not a
demagogic one,” Renzi, who lost the a primary to Bersani in
December, told state-owned RAI television on March 9.  “I hope the PD will listen to what Renzi said,” PD
lawmaker-elect Silvia Fregolent said in an interview in Rome
today. “Then it will be up to Bersani to respond” to Grillo’s
proposals, she added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net 
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  