-- Liverpool Ends Tottenham’s Unbeaten Run in Premier League Soccer
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-03-11T00:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/liverpool-ends-tottenham-s-unbeaten-run-in-premier-league-soccer.html
Liverpool beat Tottenham 3-2 in
English soccer’s Premier League as the London team faltered in
its quest for a top-four place and Champions League
qualification. Newcastle defeated Stoke 2-1.  Steven Gerrard  got Liverpool’s winning goal from the
penalty spot with eight minutes left at Anfield yesterday.
Stewart Downing had tied it after Jan Vertonghen scored twice to
put Spurs 2-1 ahead following  Luis Suarez ’s opening goal.  Liverpool climbed up two places to sixth in the standings,
seven points behind fourth-place Chelsea, after ending
Tottenham’s 12-match unbeaten league run. Spurs stayed in third.  “Today was a stringent test and they came through it,”
Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  told reporters. “We know
where we want to be eventually but this is another marker for us
in terms of our growth.”  Suarez opened the scoring in the 21st minute, poking the
ball in from close range following  Jose Enrique ’s pass. It was
his 29th goal of the season and seventh in the past four games.  Vertonghen scored in the 45th and 53rd minutes with a
header and shot as Tottenham took a 2-1 lead, Gareth Bale
playing a part in both goals.  Misjudged back-passes by  Kyle Walker  and Jermain Defoe led
to Spurs losing the game. Downing made it 2-2 for the Reds in
the 66th minute, then Gerrard converted an 82nd-minute penalty
after Suarez was fouled.  “We lost control of the game when things looked to be
going our way, which was more down to a couple of mistakes we
did rather than to Liverpool’s merit,” Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas said.  Cisse’s Winner  Stoke took the lead at Newcastle in the 67th minute with a
penalty kick by  Jonathan Walters . Yohan Cabaye tied the game
with a free kick five minutes later and Papiss Cisse grabbed the
winner in the second minute of stoppage time.  Manchester United leads the standings with 71 points, 12
more than defending champion Manchester City. Tottenham, which
has played one more game than the other teams in the top five,
has 54 with Chelsea two points further back. Arsenal has 47.  Liverpool has 45 points in sixth. Stoke and Newcastle, who
both have 33 points, are 11th and 13th, respectively.  Two days ago,  Aston Villa  moved out of the three-team
relegation zone with a 2-1 win at Reading. Last-place Queens
Park Rangers beat Sunderland 3-1, West Brom defeated Swansea
2-1, and Norwich and Southampton drew 0-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 