-- J&J Faces Second Trial Over Recalled Hip After Loss
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-03-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/j-j-faces-second-trial-over-recalled-hip-after-losing-first-case.html
A lawyer for  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
DePuy unit, which lost a $8.3 million verdict in the first trial
over its recalled hip implant, denied claims in a second trial
that the device was defectively designed.  Richard Sarver, a  J&J lawyer , countered claims yesterday by
Carol Strum, 54, an  Illinois  nurse, that her ASR hip failed
after three years and she needed replacement surgery known as a
revision because of the design of the metal-on-metal device. He
also denied claims by Strum’s attorney that DePuy failed to warn
of the risks of the ASR, which J&J recalled in August 2010.  Strum’s case is the second of 10,750 lawsuits to be tried.
On March 8, J&J lost the first trial when a Los Angeles jury
ruled that the ASR was defectively designed. Jurors awarded
compensatory damages to a Montana man while ruling that J&J
adequately warned of the risks. J&J recalled the device when the
revision rate in the U.K. hit an unacceptable rate of 13 percent
after five years, not because it was defective, Sarver said.  “Many factors contribute to the overall revision rate so a
single root cause cannot be defined at this time,” Sarver said
yesterday in his opening statement. “We absolutely didn’t say
the product is a defective product. We said we don’t know. We
need to figure this out.”  To say the recall “is an admission of a defect, it is
absolutely absurd,” Sarver said.  Strum’s lawyer, Denman Heard, told jurors that the ASR
design flaws caused it to shed chromium and metal debris into
surrounding tissue. Surgeons implanted a metal cup in the hip
and a metal ball atop the femur that rotated inside the cup.
DePuy claimed its design would last longer than other products.  ‘DePuy Knew’  “Before Carol Strum ever had the ASR put into her body,
DePuy knew that the design flaws in this defective device could
cause it to shed those particles into patients, causing tissue
death, causing high blood metal ion levels and the need for the
serious and unnecessary second surgery,” Heard said.  He said DePuy discovered the flaws and weighed a redesign
of the ASR in 2008 before scrapping the project. DePuy never
told doctors such as Strum’s surgeon about the risks, he said.  “If they had done so, we literally would not be here
today,” Heard said. “Ms. Strum would not have had a defective
implant put into her body because her doctor would have been
fully informed about this product.”  Sarver said that DePuy fully researched the ASR, conducting
hundreds of tests on machines and cadavers and sharing its data
with the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration . To “say we were
hiding things is just utter rubbish,” Sarver said.  Half Hemisphere  The  design  of the ASR, which is slightly less than a half
hemisphere, was improved along the way, including by
strengthening the cup and improving instruments used during
surgery, Sarver said.  DePuy consulted “really just the best orthopedic surgeons
in the world,” he said. “Only surgeons know what you need, so
they tell us what kind of a product do you need, and then every
step of the way they are telling us this works, this doesn’t
work, this is a good idea, bad idea.”  Sarver said Strum had an “extremely lengthy and
significant medical history,” including allergies, migraine
headaches, chest and back pains, a family history of Crohn’s
disease and apparent autoimmune problems, including skin rashes.  “Some people don’t react well to devices,” Sarver told
jurors. “We don’t know why.”  He said three things must work well for a successful
surgery: a doctor who does his job; a device working properly;
and a patient’s body responding. In Strum’s case, he said, the
doctor and the device worked well, while her body did not.  ‘Individual Biology’  “In this case, that didn’t go well,” he said. “Mrs.
Strum’s individual biology and health issues were the cause of
the revision, not the device.”  Sarver said the  revision rates  were low at first. In 2006,
patients had 12 revisions of 6,211 hips implanted; the next
year, it was 64 of 16,881, or .38 percent, an “incredibly good
number,” he said.  An internal DePuy analysis in September 2011 showed 37
percent of ASRs failed within 4.5 years, and Australian national
registry data showed in 2012 that 44 percent failed within seven
years.  Sarver said Strum was part of a “challenging population”
of women under 55. He said 40 percent of all devices for those
women fail within 19 years.  Her “optimism about how well this worked is just not the
real world,” Sarver said. “In the real world it doesn’t work
that way.”  First Witness  Strum’s first witness was Magnus Flett, who led a DePuy
design team and oversaw a group conducting a so-called failure
mode and effect analysis, or FMEA, of the ASR. Jurors saw a
videotape of Flett, as they did in the Los Angeles trial in
which the plaintiff was Loren “Bill” Kransky, a retired prison
guard.  Strum also is seeking punitive damages in the case. Jurors
in the Kransky trial rejected a request for such damages,
indicating “fraud or malice,” of as much as $179 million.  J&J faces more than 10,750 ASR lawsuits. About 500 are in
state court in Illinois, according to another Strum attorney,
Peter J. Flowers. About three-quarters of the total were
consolidated in federal court in Toledo,  Ohio . More than 2,000
are in state court in  California . Others are in state courts
around the U.S. The next trial is scheduled in federal court in
Ohio in May.  The case is Strum v. DePuy, 2011-L-9352, Circuit Court of
Cook County ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  