-- Japan’s Cut for Solar Power Price Retains Boom Incentive
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-03-12T03:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/japan-s-cut-for-solar-power-price-retains-boom-incentive.html
Japan ’s proposal to cut the price
paid for solar power by 10 percent leaves in place incentives
for a boom in installations this year, the industry’s lobby
group said.  A committee of experts advising the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry last night recommended the price for solar
power should be cut beginning April 1, and the payment for wind
should remain unchanged. The government must endorse the
proposal before it comes into force.  Investments on non-residential solar projects totaled 222
billion yen ($2.3 billion) in Japan last year, adding 580
megawatts of capacity, according to an estimate by Bloomberg.
Spending this year is expected to rise to 438 billion yen for
1,460 megawatts, Bloomberg New Energy Finance forecasts.  “The solar market is expanding, and we don’t think the
proposed tariff would change the trend much,” Hisao Kayaoka,
secretary general of the Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association,
said by phone. “The proposed tariff will allow for continued
growth in the market.”  The association’s member companies include units of  Suntech
Power Holdings (STP)  Co. Ltd,  Kyocera Corp. (6971) , Solar Frontier K.K. and
 Sharp Corp. (6753) , which all make solar panels. The utility  Kansai
Electric Power Co. (9503)  also is a member.  Japan’s introduction of incentives in July enticed panel
makers such as Kyocera Corp. to begin building solar stations
and encouraged new entrants such as  Softbank Corp. (9984) , a mobile-
phone provider, to develop solar plants.  Plunging Prices  The cost of solar equipment has fallen so much that
officials say incentives can be cut without squeezing
development plans amid a push to diversify sources of energy
after the nuclear meltdown in Fukushima.  Prices for silicon-based solar panels sank about 20 percent
in the past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Solar capacity, including both residential and non-residential,
rose 29 percent in Japan from April to November as developers
added 1,398 megawatts of installations to a base of 4,800
megawatts, according to trade ministry  data .  The average system cost for non-residential solar has
fallen 14 percent to 280,000 yen per kilowatt since October
compared with the amount used by the committee to set the solar
tariff for the year ending March 31, according to the ministry.  Recommended Rates  “Japan is emerging as a strong new leader driven by growth
of commercial project installations,” said Shawn Qu, chief
executive officer at  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) , an Ontario-based
solar-panel company with manufacturing operations in  China .  Even at the reduced rates, Japan’s support for solar is
about three times the incentives offered in Germany and China,
two countries that are among the biggest markets for the
technology. Japan is likely to be one of the top three markets
this year, according to BNEF.  The committee said the feed-in tariff guaranteeing above-
market prices for solar energy should be cut to 37.8 yen per
kilowatt hour for 20 years for applications from April 1. The
current rate is 42 yen. The new rate is in step with an estimate
from Bloomberg New Energy Finance that the rate of as low as 37
yen would still provide an incentive for developers to build new
plants.  New rates for projects bigger than 10 kilowatts “remain
attractive enough” since they will provide a 6 percent rate of
return for developers, said  Yugo Nakamura , an industry analyst
at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in Tokyo. “We would, though,
see slower applications in the second quarter 2013.”  Wind Impact  The panel is led by Kazuhiro Ueta, professor of
environmental economics at  Kyoto University . Toshimitsu Motegi,
Japan’s minister of economy, trade and industry, must approve
the recommendation for it to take effect.  Feed-in tariffs will be passed on to consumers as
surcharges. The trade ministry estimates that it will total 120
yen a month after new tariffs are introduced compared with the
current fee of 87 yen for an average household.  The panel also recommended the tariff for wind projects
remain at 23.1 yen per kilowatt hour for 20 years. The Japan
Wind Power Association said it welcomed the proposal.  “The current tariff is the minimum level necessary to
develop wind projects in Japan,” Tetsuro Nagata, president of
the wind association, said in an e-mailed statement. “If the
tariff is to be kept at the same level, we welcome the decision.
There remain major issues such as grid connection and
deregulation, but we want to further expand wind power taking
advantage of the tariff, to be held at the same level, for the
second year.”  Pricing Review  The wind association’s members include Eurus Energy
Holdings Corp., a project developer;  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7011) , which makes turbines;  Kajima Corp. (1812) , a contractor; and
Siemens Japan K.K., a unit of the German wind turbine and
electrical equipment maker  Siemens AG. (SIE)   The government panel recommended keeping tariffs at current
levels for the four other types of renewable sources covered by
the program, saying it lacked enough examples of new projects to
review pricing.  For geothermal, the panel suggested 27.3 yen per kilowatt
hour for plants with capacity of 15,000 kilowatts or larger, and
42 yen for smaller plants, both for 15 years.  The government panel also recommended keeping the tariff
for small hydro at 25.2 yen to 35.7 yen per kilowatt hour for 20
years depending on plant size. For biomass, tariffs of 13.65 yen
to 40.95 yen per kilowatt hour for 20 years were proposed,
depending on type of fuel used.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  