-- Japan’s IPOs to Jump 67% on Abenomics Rally, Adachi Says
-- B y   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-03-12T05:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/japan-s-ipos-to-jump-67-on-abenomics-rally-adachi-says.html
Initial public offerings in  Japan 
may jump 67 percent this year as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
policies boost stock prices and make it easier to sell shares,
according to the  Japan Venture Capital Association .  New listings may rise to 80 this year from 48 in 2012,
association chairman Toshihisa Adachi said.  Information
technology , social networking and gaming firms will make up most
of the offerings, he said, without naming specific companies.  Broadleaf Co., a  software developer , and  Water Direct
Corp. (2588) , a drinking water delivery service, are among 10 companies
scheduled to list in the next month amid a share rally that has
boosted the Nikkei 225 Stock Average 38 percent since the end of
October. IPOs have increased every year since 2009, when they
fell below 20 to the lowest in at least 15 years amid the
financial crisis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Japan’s strong equity market, boosted by optimism
surrounding Abenomics, is definitely having a huge impact on the
IPO market,” said Adachi in an interview. “In the past three
to four years, companies with potential were largely undervalued
by the market due to the tough environment.”  Fourteen companies announced IPOs this year through
yesterday in Japan including Kyoritsu Computer & Communications
Co., a system solution provider, and drugmaker Medrx Co. Shares
have rallied amid optimism Abe will take steps to end deflation.  Eight IPOs have been announced this year in  Hong Kong  and
79 in the U.S.  Softmax Listed  Softmax Co. (3671) , a system software provider, was listed on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange’s Mothers market today. It was untraded and
poised to rise as buy orders outnumbered sell orders. The stock
was bid at 2,600 yen as of 1:29 p.m. today, compared with its
IPO price of 1,300 yen.  Adachi is also chief executive officer of Itochu Technology
Ventures Inc., an arm of Japan’s third-largest  trading house 
that bought shares in Start Today Co. and online brokerage
Kabu.Com Securities Co. before they went public. The venture
capital firm has invested in 57 companies, according to its
website.  The Japan Venture Capital Association promotes start-ups
through research, seminars, and collaboration with  stock
exchanges  and government organizations, its website says.  “The pipeline is continuing to increase, as if a levee
broke,” Adachi said. “In two to three years, the number of
IPOs will probably recover to about 100.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Satoshi Kawano in 東京 at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  