-- Japan Recommends Cutting Solar Tariff as Equipment Prices Fall
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-03-11T07:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/japan-recommends-cutting-solar-tariff-as-equipment-prices-fall.html
Japan ’s solar developers would get
10 percent less for the power they feed to utilities under a
recommendation a government  panel  made after taking into account
a plunge in the cost of panels.  The committee of experts advising the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry today said the rate should be cut to 37.8 yen
(39 cents) per kilowatt hour for 20 years for applications from
April 1. The current rate is 42 yen. The government must endorse
the proposal before it comes into force.  The cost of solar equipment has fallen so much that
officials say incentives can be cut without squeezing
development plans amid a push to diversify sources of energy
after the nuclear meltdown in Fukushima. Even at the reduced
rates, Japan’s support for solar is about three times the
incentives offered in Germany and  China , two countries that are
among the biggest solar markets in the world.  Japan’s introduction of a 42 yen solar tariff in July
enticed panel makers such as  Kyocera Corp. (6971)  to begin building
solar stations and encouraged new entrants such as  Softbank
Corp. (9984) , a mobile-phone provider, to develop solar factories.  Japan could cut the incentive as much as 12 percent to 37
yen and still have an incentive for developers to build new
plants, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimated in January.  Average System Cost  The average system cost for non-residential solar has
fallen 14 percent to 280,000 yen per kilowatt since October
compared with the amount used by the committee to set the solar
tariff for the year ending March 31, according to the ministry.  Prices for silicon-based solar panels sank about 20 percent
in the past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Solar capacity rose 29 percent in Japan from April to
November as developers added 1,398 megawatts of installations to
a base of 4,800 megawatts, according to trade ministry  data .  The group today recommended keeping tariffs at current
levels for the four other types of renewable sources covered by
the program, saying it lacked enough examples of new projects to
review pricing.  For geothermal, the panel suggested 27.3 yen per kilowatt
hour for plants with capacity of 15,000 kilowatts or larger, and
42 yen for smaller plants, both for 15 years. The wind tariff
was recommended to remain at 23.1 yen per kilowatt hour for 20
years.  The government panel also recommended keeping the tariff
for small hydro at 25.2 yen to 35.7 yen per kilowatt hour for 20
years depending on plant size. For biomass, tariffs of 13.65 yen
to 40.95 yen per kilowatt hour for 20 years were proposed,
depending on type of fuel used.  The panel is led by Kazuhiro Ueta, professor of
environmental economics at  Kyoto University . Toshimitsu Motegi,
Japan’s minister of economy, trade and industry, must approve
the recommendation before it comes into force.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  