-- Jets Sign Quarterback David Garrard to Challenge Mark Sanchez
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-12T04:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/jets-sign-quarterback-david-garrard-to-compete-with-mark-sanchez.html
The  New York  Jets signed free-agent
quarterback David Garrard, who didn’t play in the National
Football League the past two seasons, adding more competition
for incumbent starter Mark Sanchez.  The addition of Garrard, 35, comes after the Jets’ new
general manager, John Idzik, had said he’d look to bring in
players to push Sanchez, who has started the past four seasons
and was benched twice last year. The Jets also have Greg McElroy
and Tim Tebow at quarterback.  Jets new offensive coordinator Marty Mornhinweg said
yesterday on a conference call that Sanchez, who is guaranteed
$8.25 million this season, has a “little bit of a leg up” in
the competition for the starting job.  “Mark has a lot of strengths and he’s played at a high
level,” Mornhinweg said before Garrard was signed. “It’s our
job to get him to play at a high level on a consistent basis.”  Mornhinweg will be Sanchez’s third offensive coordinator in
three seasons. Hired from the Philadelphia Eagles this offseason
to replace  Tony Sparano , Mornhinweg favors a West Coast-style
offensive system that relies on timing and precision in the
passing game.  Sanchez, 26, has completed 55 percent of his passes over
four seasons, with 68 touchdowns and 69 interceptions. He’s
committed 26 turnovers in each of the past two seasons.  Garrard, who was born in East Orange, New Jersey, spent his
first nine NFL seasons with the Jacksonville Jaguars after being
selected in the fourth round of the 2002 draft. He’s completed
62 percent of his passes for 89 touchdowns and 54 interceptions.  Pro Bowl  Garrard threw an NFL-low three interceptions with 18
touchdown passes during the 2007 season, when he led the Jaguars
to a 9-3 start before missing the final four games of the season.
Garrard made the Pro Bowl in 2009 when he passed for 3,597 yards,
15 touchdowns and 10 interceptions.  The Jaguars cut Garrard five days before the start of the
2011 season to save $9 million. After undergoing back surgery,
he signed with the Miami Dolphins before the 2012 season and was
later released after having surgery on his left knee.  The Jets didn’t disclose terms of Garrard’s contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  