-- Juventus Extends Serie A Lead; Real Madrid Goes Second in Spain
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-03-11T01:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/juventus-extends-serie-a-lead-real-madrid-goes-second-in-spain.html
Juventus extended its lead over
Napoli in Italian soccer’s Serie A to nine points with a 1-0 win
against Catania, while Real Madrid moved above  Atletico Madrid 
into second place in Spain’s La Liga.  Substitute Emanuele Giaccherini scored in stoppage time for
Juventus yesterday as Napoli lost 2-0 at Chievo. Defending
champion Juve has 62 points to Napoli’s 53. Third-place AC Milan
has 51 points after a 2-0 win at Genoa three days ago.  Napoli lost on the road as Boukary Drame’s long-range
effort and a Cyril Thereau goal secured Chievo’s win. Edinson Cavani missed a second-half penalty kick for the visiting team.  In Spain,  Cristiano Ronaldo  scored twice as Real Madrid won
2-1 at Celta Vigo to leapfrog local rival Atletico, which lost
1-0 to Real Sociedad for its first home defeat of the season.  Two days ago, league leader Barcelona beat Deportivo La
Coruna 2-0 on goals by  Alexis Sanchez  and  Lionel Messi , who came
on as a substitute to score in his 17th straight La Liga game.  Barcelona acting coach Jordi Roura made several changes to
before the Catalan club tries to overcome a 2-0 deficit against
AC Milan in their Champions League round-of-16 matchup.  Barca leads the standings with 71 points, 13 more than
defending champion Real, with Atletico on 57 points.  Lyon and Marseille drew 0-0 in France’s Ligue 1 yesterday
to leave Paris Saint-Germain four points clear at the top.  Ibrahimovic’s Double  Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored both goals for PSG two days ago
as it rallied to beat Nancy 2-1 in Paris. Former England captain
 David Beckham  came on as a substitute in the second half as PSG
held on to its lead to move to 57 points. Lyon has 53 points,
with Marseille on 50.  Bayern Munich  stretched its lead atop Germany’s Bundesliga
to 20 points two days ago with a 3-2 victory against Fortuna
Dusseldorf.  Borussia Dortmund  lost 2-1 at Schalke in the Ruhr
derby, and Bayer Leverkusen was beaten 1-0 at Mainz.  Bayern has 66 points, defending champion Dortmund 46 and
Leverkusen 45.  Ajax went top in the Dutch league yesterday with a 3-0 home
win against FC Zwolle after PSV Eindhoven lost 2-1 at Heerenveen
the previous day. Feyenoord won 1-0 at Roda JC. Ajax leads with
54 points, followed by PSV and Feyenoord on 53.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 