-- Kenya May Hold Benchmark Rate Amid Disputed Vote Outcome
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-03-11T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/kenya-may-hold-benchmark-rate-amid-disputed-vote-outcome.html
Kenya’s  central bank  will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for the first time
since July as a dispute over presidential election results
clouds the outlook for the economy.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by central
bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u will hold the benchmark  interest
rate  at 9.5 percent, according to all nine analysts surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . The bank is scheduled to announce its decision
in an e-mailed statement later today.  Policy makers are meeting three days after the electoral
commission declared Uhuru Kenyatta, who was indicted by the
 International Criminal Court  for crimes against humanity, as
Kenya’s new president. The 51-year-old outgoing deputy prime
minister won 50.07 percent of votes cast, narrowly avoiding a
runoff with  Raila Odinga . Odinga plans to ask the  Supreme Court 
to overturn the result, citing evidence of ballot tampering.  “They will give pause this time because of the results of
the election have just been declared and there is still a level
of uncertainty with the expected court challenge,” Yvonne Mhango, an economist for sub-Saharan Africa at  Renaissance
Capital , said in a phone interview from Johannesburg. “The bank
will want to be cautious and see the impact on markets,
especially on the shilling.”  The shilling has strengthened 0.4 percent against the
dollar since the March 4 election, bringing its gains so far
this year to 0.6 percent. The election was largely free of the
violence that tainted the last national vote in 2007, when
accusations of vote-rigging sparked two months of ethnic and
political clashes that left more than 1,100 dead and drove
another 350,000 from their homes.  Inflation Target  The Central Bank of Kenya cut its key lending rate by 8.5
percentage points in the past four meetings as slower inflation
enabled policy makers to help spur growth in East Africa’s
biggest economy.  While inflation accelerated for the second month in
February to 4.5 percent, it remains below the government’s 5
percent target.  The outlook for inflation is improving, giving the bank
room to resume rate cuts in May,  Razia Khan , head of African
economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in London, said in
an e-mailed note to clients.  “An unchanged decision in March does not mean the end of
Kenya’s easing cycle,” she said. “But clearly any further
easing will depend very much on circumstances post-election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  