-- Kenya Shilling Strengthens After Peaceful Presidential Elections
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-03-11T09:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/kenya-shilling-strengthens-after-peaceful-presidential-elections.html
Kenya ’s shilling advanced after
peaceful presidential elections in East Africa’s biggest
economy.  The currency gained 0.8 percent to 85.53 per dollar by
12:39 p.m. in Nairobi, heading for the highest level since March
5, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenya held its presidential vote on March 4, where Uhuru Kenyatta, who is preparing for trial at the International
Criminal Court, won by 50.07 percent of the ballots cast, the
Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission said on March 9.
Outgoing Prime Minister Raila Odinga, whose dispute of election
results in 2007 triggered two months of ethnic clashes that left
more than 1,100 people dead, got 43.3 percent.  “The shilling has gained against the dollar, reflecting
the dividend of peaceful elections,” Raphael Agung, a senior
trader at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said by
phone. “The markets will recalibrate based on litigation risks
associated with the plan to contest the presidential results at
the Supreme Court”.  Odinga, 68, who claimed he was cheated of the win in the
last election by President Mwai Kibaki, will move to court to
challenge the elections outcome.  “We will therefore shortly move to court to challenge the
outcome,” Odinga told reporters on March 9, immediately the
official results were released. “Any violence now could destroy
this nation forever. It will not serve anyone’s interest.”  “In the medium term the markets will remain choppy as the
Supreme Court decides on the case,” Agung said.  The Supreme Court is expected to rule on the case within 14
days after the filling of the petition, according to the Kenya
constitution.  The International Monetary Fund said Kenya’s economy may
expand 5.5 percent to 6 percent this year, as long as peaceful
elections show stability for investors.  Uganda’s currency traded unchanged at 2,653 per dollar,
while the Tanzanian shilling appreciated less than 0.1 percent
to 1,623 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  