-- Kuroda Signals Quick Easing Action If Confirmed as BOJ Governor
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-03-11T01:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/kuroda-signals-quick-easing-action-if-confirmed-as-boj-governor.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  governor nominee
 Haruhiko Kuroda  signaled a readiness for a quick expansion in
the central bank’s stimulus, and reiterated confidence in the
power of monetary policy to defeat deflation.  A weakening in the yen from “excessive gains” has been
predicated on expectations of easing, a circumstance that won’t
last forever, Kuroda, the Asian Development Bank chief, told
lawmakers in his second Diet confirmation hearing today. The
current scale of asset buying is “not a strong enough
commitment to quickly achieve the 2 percent inflation target,”
he said.  Extra stimulus may come as soon as the BOJ’s next policy
board meeting on April 3-4, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.
and Mizuho Securities Co., assuming Kuroda can persuade existing
members of the board that immediate action is required. He has
already identified at least one ally, after board member Sayuri Shirai last week proposed bringing forward open-ended asset
purchases scheduled for 2014.  The BOJ board voted eight-to-one against the proposal by
Shirai on March 7, in Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s final meeting
before a new leadership takes over. Shirakawa steps down with
his two deputies on March 19.  Kuroda last week said that the BOJ will do whatever is
needed to end 15 years of deflation should he be confirmed as
governor and indicated that open-ended asset purchases could
start sooner than next year.  The yen was 0.1 percent weaker at 96.07 per dollar as of
9:44 a.m. in  Tokyo , extending its more than 16 percent fall
since mid-November, while the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  was 0.6
percent higher.  In January, the BOJ adopted the 2 percent target without a
deadline and said it would shift to the open-ended asset
purchases in 2014.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe nominated Kikuo Iwata, an
economics professor who backs greater government oversight of
monetary policy, and BOJ Executive Director Hiroshi Nakaso for
two deputy BOJ governor posts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  