-- Kuroda Says Bank of Japan Will Consider Buying Derivatives
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-03-11T05:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/kuroda-says-bank-of-japan-will-consider-buying-derivatives-1-.html
Bank of Japan (8301)  governor nominee
Haruhiko Kuroda said that the central bank will consider buying
derivatives if he’s confirmed as governor and signaled a
readiness for a quick expansion in monetary stimulus.  “We will carefully consider such a proposal,” Kuroda, the
 Asian Development Bank  chief, said in response to a lawmaker’s
question in his second Diet confirmation hearing today. Opinions
vary on the merits of buying  assets  such as swaps, Kuroda said,
adding that he wants to discuss easing “soon” and bond
purchases are likely to remain the key tool.  Kuroda’s confidence that the BOJ can meet a 2 percent
 inflation  target is yet to be reflected among economists, who
predict a failure to achieve that goal within two years,
according to a Bloomberg News survey this month. Extra stimulus
may come as soon as April 4, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.
and Mizuho Securities Co., after board member Sayuri Shirai
failed last week to win support for a proposal to start open-
ended asset purchases immediately.  “This is a communications strategy, rather than an actual
policy at this moment,” said  Masamichi Adachi , senior economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Tokyo . “Kuroda wants to impress the
markets. Any type of asset, including derivatives such as
interest rate swaps, should be on the table.”  Kuroda said in an interview last month that the BOJ could
purchase the equivalent of trillions of dollars of assets to
expand its balance sheet.  Rare Move  Central bank purchases of derivatives are rare, according
to  Martin Schulz , senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute
in Tokyo who has done research for the Bank of  Japan .  “This would be a first as a systemic policy,” Schulz
said. “Central banks need to be very transparent in regard to
the risks involved in buying structured products, and that
limits the possibilities for what they can buy.”  In the U.S., the  Federal Reserve  acquired assets, including
derivatives such as credit-default swaps and  interest-rate
swaps , as part of its $28.8 billion 2008 rescue of Bear Stearns
Cos. The Fed said in June 2012 that it had been paid back with
interest for its role in the bailout after selling off assets.  Whether buying derivatives could be adopted by the BOJ is
“not just an issue of persuading other BOJ board members, but
also the technicalities in the market,” said JPMorgan’s Adachi.
“If the market is very small and the intervention by the BOJ is
significant enough to collapse the market, then perhaps even
Kuroda will think it’s not a good idea.”  Index Funds  Kuroda may have been to referring asset-backed securities
and  index funds , said Izumi Devalier, a Japan economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong .  Any such purchases would likely “be small, since
increasing the amount of risk assets can potentially threaten
the bank’s capital base,” Devalier said. “At the very least a
loss-sharing accord with the government is probably a pre-
requisite for such a move.”  The central bank currently buys government bonds with
maturities of up to three years, as well as exchange-traded
funds, real-estate investment trusts and other risks assets,
through a fund targeted to reach 76 trillion yen ($791 billion)
by the end of this year.  Kuroda has said that the BOJ will do whatever is needed to
end 15 years of deflation should he be confirmed as governor and
indicated that open-ended asset purchases could begin sooner
than the planned January 2014 start. He has also pledged to
consider buying longer-term debt.  The BOJ board voted eight-to-one against the proposal by
Shirai on March 7, in Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s final meeting
before he steps down with his two deputies on March 19.  Ishida’s View  Board member Koji Ishida said in a speech today that a
“sustainable fiscal structure” is important for expanded
monetary easing, warning that yields on  government bonds  could
rise if trust in fiscal discipline is lost.  Benchmark 10-year bond yields reached an almost decade low
of 0.585 percent on March 5 and finished last week at 0.65
percent. The yield was at 0.66 percent as of 2:15 p.m. in Tokyo.  The yen fell 0.1 percent to 96.11 per dollar, extending its
more than 16 percent fall since mid-November, while the  Nikkei
225 Stock Average (NKY)  was 0.5 percent higher.  A weakening in the yen from “excessive gains” has been
predicated on expectations of easing, a circumstance that won’t
last forever, Kuroda said today.  Inflation Target  In January, the BOJ adopted a 2 percent inflation target.
In a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists this month, most
said that the central bank would probably fail to achieve that
goal within two years.  Japan’s machinery orders plunged 13 percent in January, the
biggest decline in eight months, signaling limits on corporate
investment as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe tries to drive an
economic revival.  Paul Donovan , managing director of global economics at UBS
AG, said that the impact of the BOJ’s asset buying depends on
what banks do with the money.  “If the banking system just accepts the money the BOJ
gives them and doesn’t do anything with it, then this money
doesn’t go into the economy, it doesn’t go into the foreign
exchange markets and it certainly doesn’t create inflation,” he
said in an interview today with Bloomberg Television.  The Asian Development Bank said today that it will elect a
new president by April 24. Japan, which has held the presidency
of the Manila-based ADB since the institution was founded in
1966, last week said it would nominate Vice Finance Minister
Takehiko Nakao to succeed Kuroda.  Abe has nominated Kikuo Iwata, an economics professor who
backs greater government oversight of monetary policy, and BOJ
Executive Director Hiroshi Nakaso for two deputy BOJ governor
posts. The upper house confirmation hearing for them is
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  