-- N.J. Wrestler Finishes High School Career 170-0 With Four Titles
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-11T14:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/n-j-wrestler-finishes-high-school-career-170-0-with-four-titles.html
Anthony Ashnault, a senior at South
Plainfield High School, became the first New Jersey wrestler to
win four state titles without a single loss, ending with a 170-0
record.  Ashnault finished his high-school career yesterday with a
New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association
championship at 138 pounds in front of a sellout crowd of 11,140
at Boardwalk Hall in Atlantic City, according to NJSIAA
Executive Director Steven Timko.  Ashnault previously won state titles at 103, 112, and 126
pounds, Timko said in a telephone interview. He ranks second in
New Jersey history in career victories behind Andrew
Campolattano of Bound Brook High School, who went 175-1 in a
career that ended in 2011, according to the Press of Atlantic
City.  “This has been my goal ever since I was in eighth grade,”
Ashnault said, according to the newspaper. “To actually
accomplish this feels great.”  The International Olympic Committee has recommended taking
wrestling off the list of core sports for the 2020 Games. The
international wrestling community immediately protested, with
officials from the U.S.,  Russia  and  Iran  working together to
lobby for the inclusion of their sport, which has been in the
Olympics since ancient times. Former Olympic wrestlers have
turned in their medals and one announced he would go on a hunger
strike.  Ashnault has committed to wrestling next year at Rutgers
University in New Brunswick, New Jersey. He was ranked the  No.
21  national recruit by Amateur Wrestling News.  He joins Campolattano and Mike Grey of Delbarton as New
Jersey’s only four-time state champions, Timko said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  