-- Nazi Schemers Bomb ‘Hindenburg’; Cheney Love Letter: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-03-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/nazi-schemers-bomb-hindenburg-cheney-love-letter-tv.html
In Showtime’s documentary “ The
World According to Dick Cheney ,” the man generally acknowledged
to have been the most powerful vice president in U.S. history is
asked to name his main fault.  He punts.  “Um, I don’t spend a lot of time thinking about my faults, I
guess would be the answer.”  Fair enough, but the filmmakers shouldn’t get off so easy.  Directed by R.J. Cutler and Greg Finton, the film is more
even-handed than revelatory. In documentaries as in politics,
nice doesn’t always triumph.  “If you want to be loved,” Cheney advises politicians, “go
be a movie star.”  Granted, Cutler (“ The War Room ,” “ The September Issue ”) and
Finton don’t ignore Cheney’s unlovable qualities, and the
biographical recap in the first portion of the film is no
whitewash. (Cheney, who flamed out at Yale before notching two
DUIs, was hardly a young man of promise.)  But the opportunities presented by having Cheney in the hot
seat go unexploited. The pricklier subjects are left to talking-
head journalists (Bob Woodward, David Corn, Ron Suskind, among
others) to expound upon.  Nothing, for example, is mentioned of the former oil man’s
energy policies. His rote answers to questions of historical
import go largely unchallenged.  Asked about waterboarding, which Cheney denies is torture,
the former veep answers with a question of his own, effectively
framing the issue in his favor:  “Tell me what terrorist attacks you would have let go
forward,” he rebuts, “because you didn’t want to be a mean and
nasty fella?”  Kathryn Bigelow has endured greater challenges on the
subject than Cheney does here.  “The World According to Dick Cheney” airs Friday, March 15
on Showtime at 9 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: **1/2  Flying Nazis  Encore, the barely noticed corporate sibling of the higher
profile Starz, does nothing to distinguish itself with
“ Hindenburg: The Last Flight ,” a woeful two-part drama.  A German production that sounds dubbed (badly) in English,
“Hindenburg” wafts to its inevitable doom with a fictionalized
story of Nazi scheming, corporate misdeeds and soap-opera
romance.  German actor Maximilian Simonichek, who looks like Ben Affleck and acts like a log, plays an idealistic zeppelin-
designer.  Upon discovering a bomb plot just before take-off, he sneaks
aboard to hunt for the explosive (yelling “Bomb!” doesn’t cross
his mind).  Also heading to newsreel immortality are a wealthy German
family carrying secrets to  Argentina , assorted Nazis and a
spunky American socialite (Lauren Lee Smith) whose businessman
father (Stacy Keach) could make a fortune in helium sales if
only he could dream up some way of illustrating the dangers of
hydrogen.  “Hindenburg: The Last Flight” airs Monday and Tuesday March
11 and 12 on Encore at 8 p.m. Rating: *  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Patrick Cole 
on the Rockefellers.  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 