-- Netanyahu to Meet Party Leaders in Effort to Seal New Government
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-03-11T08:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/netanyahu-to-meet-party-leaders-in-effort-to-seal-new-government.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  will meet with three prospective coalition partners in
Jerusalem today in a bid to reach a final agreement to form a
new government.  Netanyahu has until March 16 under Israeli electoral law to
put together a ruling coalition following January elections.
U.S. President  Barack Obama  is due to arrive for a three-day
visit beginning March 20.  The three party leaders - Yisrael Beitenu’s Avigdor Liberman, Yesh Atid’s Yair Lapid and Jewish Home’s Naftali Bennett - will meet with Netanyahu in his office at noon, Noga
Rappaport, spokeswoman for the prime minister’s Likud party,
said in a phone interview. “They will try to resolve all
remaining issues and reach final coalition agreements,”
Rappaport said.  Netanyahu is trying to put together a coalition that will
hold a majority in  Israel ’s 120-seat parliament, the Knesset.
His Likud party, which ran on a joint ticket with Yisrael
Beitenu in Jan. 22 elections, won the most seats, 31.  Netanyahu has also signed a coalition agreement with the
six-seat Hatenuah faction, whose leader, former foreign minister
 Tzipi Livni , will be appointed justice minister. A deal with
Yesh Atid, which holds 19 seats, and Jewish Home, which won 12,
would give him a parliamentary majority.  Military Draft  Outstanding issues include the distribution of Cabinet
portfolios, the total number of ministers, and details over an
agreement to limit draft exemptions for ultra-Orthodox Jews,
Israel Radio said today.  Israel’s TA-25 benchmark index rallied to the highest in
almost three weeks on news of an impending coalition deal,
closing up 0.9 percent yesterday at 1,237.28. “The market is
optimistic following nearly two months of uncertainty since the
elections about what form the government would take,” Zach Herzog, head of international sales at Psagot Investment House
Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said by phone yesterday.  One stumbling block to forming a coalition was overcome at
the weekend when Lapid agreed to become the next finance
minister after aiming for the post of foreign minister.
Netanyahu has said he is holding the foreign ministry post forLiberman, pending the outcome of legal proceedings against him.  Liberman’s Future  Liberman, who resigned as foreign minister in December
after being indicted on fraud and breach of trust charges,
remains in parliament and has been involved in the coalition
talks. Final coalition agreements will probably be reached by
Tuesday or Wednesday, he told  Army Radio  yesterday.  Jewish Home’s Bennett will be appointed minister of
industry, trade and labor, Haaretz  said  yesterday, citing
unidentified party officials.  Yesh Atid, which campaigned primarily as a champion of
middle-class concerns, favors advancing peace talks with the
Palestinians toward a two-state solution. Jewish Home opposes
any Palestinian state and supports increasing West Bank
settlements.  Sitting in opposition to the government will be two ultra-
Orthodox parties, Shas and United Torah Judaism, which would not
agree to demands to limit draft exemptions for young men
studying in religious seminaries. It will be the first time in a
decade that the ultra-Orthodox parties are not included in the
coalition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  