-- New World Said to Plan $1 Billion Hotels IPO in Hong Kong
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2013-03-11T06:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/new-world-said-to-plan-1-billion-hotels-ipo-in-hong-kong.html
New World Development Co. (17) , the Hong
Kong builder controlled by billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung , may seek
as much as $1 billion from an initial public offering of
hospitality assets, said two people with knowledge of the
matter.  The company, with stakes in  16 hotels  in Hong Kong,  China 
and Southeast Asia, may complete the IPO in the second or third
quarter, the people said, asking not to be identified because
the information is private. The assets to be spun off are mainly
in Hong Kong, one of the people said.  At $1 billion, the IPO would be the biggest in Hong Kong
since People’s Insurance Company (Group) of China Ltd. raised
$3.6 billion in November. The eight-member  Hang Seng REIT Index (HSREIT) 
is up  30 percent  in the past year, compared with a 9.5 percent
gain in the broader benchmark.  New World spokeswoman Karen Wong declined to comment. The
company last week said it is considering listing some of the
assets and hasn’t decided on the timing or other details.
ETNet.com reported the size and timing of the offering earlier
today, without identifying its sources.  New World owns stakes in five hotels in Hong Kong and
Kowloon, including the Renaissance Harbour View and Grand Hyatt
in Wan Chai, and the Hyatt Regency in Tsim Sha Tsui. Hotels and
restaurants brought in revenue of about HK$3.6 billion ($465
million) in the six months ended Dec. 31, accounting for 11
percent of New World’s sales, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
BOC International Holdings Ltd. and Standard Chartered Plc are
arranging the sale, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  