-- State Troopers Lose Jobs Over 2012 Sports Car Death Race
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-03-11T20:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/new-jersey-state-troopers-forfeit-jobs-over-2012-death-race-.html
A New Jersey State Police sergeant
who escorted a high-speed caravan of Lamborghinis, Ferraris and
other  sports cars  to  Atlantic City  pleaded guilty to altering
the license plates of his troop vehicle to avoid detection.  Nadir Nassry, 47, agreed to forfeit his job, as did a
second trooper, 29-year-old Joseph Ventrella, who had joined the
unauthorized escort at Nassry’s request, New Jersey Attorney
General Jeffrey S. Chiesa said today in an e-mailed statement.
Prosecutors will recommend Nassry receive a probationary term at
his sentencing hearing scheduled for April 29, Chiesa said.  “These troopers violated” policing standards “and
betrayed the public’s trust, undermining public safety and the
reputation of the force,” Chiesa said in the statement. “They
are justly paying a high price for their poor judgment.”  Motorists reported two state-police cruisers on March 30,
2012, leading a group of more than 20 cars in a “Death Race”
convoy at speeds of 100 miles (160 kilometers) an hour toward
Atlantic City, according to complaints filed with the  New Jersey 
Turnpike Authority.  The convoy, which also included several Porsches, started
in  Fort Lee , New Jersey, across the  Hudson River  from the
Washington Heights neighborhood of  Manhattan ; it finished about
133 miles away at the end of the Atlantic City Expressway, near
the Trump Taj Mahal casino, according to the attorney general’s
office.  Records Tampering  Nassry, a police officer for 26 years, entered the plea
today before Superior Court Judge Bradley Ferencz in Middlesex
County. Ventrella, who didn’t plead guilty, agreed to waive
indictment and be charged “by accusation” with fourth-degree
falsifying or tampering with records, Chiesa said today.  “Sergeant Nassry apologizes to motorists endangered on
that day” and to Ventrella, “whose career was lost as a result
of this one-time act of stupidity,” Nassry’s lawyer, Charles
Sciarra, said in an e-mailed statement.  While some motorists characterized the high-speed convoy as
a “Death Race,” the vehicles weren’t racing each other and no
one was killed in the incident.  Sciarra said in July 2012 that Nassry led the caravan at
the request of  Brandon Jacobs , who was a player on the  National
Football League ’s San Francisco 49ers. Chiesa said at the time
that neither Jacobs nor any other drivers escorted by troopers
would face criminal charges.  A New Jersey pension board must decide whether Nassry will
keep his pension, because the crime to which he pleaded guilty
isn’t among the offenses that result in automatic forfeiture,
said Peter Aseltine, a spokesman for the attorney general, today
in a phone interview. Ventrella hadn’t worked long enough to
qualify for a pension.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  