-- New York Soda Size Limit Statute Barred by State Judge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-11T20:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/new-york-city-soda-size-limitations-barred-by-state-court-judge.html
New York City’s ban on large-size
soda drinks won’t take effect tomorrow after a state judge
blocked the plan following a challenge from industry groups
including the American Beverage Association.  The city’s Board of Health in September approved Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg ’s plan to limit the size of sugary soft drinks
sold in restaurants, movie theaters, stadiums and arenas to no
more than 16 ounces (473 milliliters) a cup. In October, groups
representing beverage makers, restaurants and theaters filed a
petition in state court, seeking to block the measure. They
called the ban “unprecedented interference” with consumer
choice.  New York Supreme Court Justice Milton Tingling in  Manhattan 
approved the group’s request, issuing a permanent injunction
today preventing the city from implementing the plan. The city 
said it will appeal the ruling, which also held the law violated 
the separation of powers, as the city council, and not the
executive, should promulgate such laws.  “The loopholes in this rule effectively defeat the stated
purpose,” Tingling wrote. “It is arbitrary and capricious
because it applies to some but not all food establishments in
the city, it excludes other beverages that have significantly
higher concentrations of sugar sweeteners and/or calories on
specific grounds and the loopholes inherent in the rule,
including but not limited to no limitations on refills, defeat
and/or serve to gut the purpose of the rule.”  Overreaching, Ignored  The plaintiffs said the decision by the board of health to
approve the ban was overreaching and ignored the rights of New
Yorkers to make their own choices. The plan is “grossly
unfair” to small businesses such as hot-dog vendors and
pizzerias because convenience and grocery stores can still sell
the larger sizes, lawyers for the groups told Tingling.  The city has argued that it’s trying to stem an epidemic of
obesity driven by consumption of sugary beverages, which is
rising because food establishments sell ever-larger portions.
Under the city’s rule, people could still buy as many of the
smaller drinks as they want and get refills.  “We are confident the board of health’s decision will
ultimately be upheld,” Michael A. Cardozo, corporation counsel
of New York City’s Law Department, said in a statement. “The
board of health has the legal authority -- and the
responsibility -- to tackle” the leading causes of a “growing
obesity epidemic.” The mayor is the majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  Kent Landers , a spokesman for  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  didn’t
immediately reply to a call or e-mail seeking comment.  Ordered Restrictions  The board of health last year ordered the restrictions.
Food-service establishments would have had three months to
comply; after that, they would have faced a $200 fine each time
a city inspector found violations. The ban doesn’t apply to
 convenience stores , bodegas and groceries, which are regulated
by the state.  “We believe it will save many lives,” the mayor said in
September after the board gave the rule unanimous approval. 
Obesity “has gone from being a rich person’s disease to a poor 
person’s disease. It’s the only public health issue that’s 
getting worse.”  Since taking office in 2002, Bloomberg, 71, has made  public
health  a hallmark of his administration. He’s banned artery-
clogging trans-fat food additives and workplace smoking; raised
tobacco taxes; increased testing for HIV, cholesterol and blood
pressure; and required  restaurant chains  to post the calorie
content of menu items.  Life Expectancy  The mayor, a Republican-turned-independent, said such
actions have raised  life expectancy  in the city to almost 81 for
babies born in 2010, 2.2 years more than the national average.  Other U.S. municipalities are also seeking to cut
consumption of sugared drinks.  Boston barred sweetened soda and junk food from school
vending machines in 2004, and Mayor Thomas Menino last year
ordered a phased sugar-drink ban in all municipal buildings and
city-sponsored events.  San Francisco  and Los Angeles County have
also acted to reduce sugared-drink consumption in buildings,
according to Harvard University’s  School of Public Health .  “Strong evidence indicates that our rising thirst for
‘liquid candy’ has been a major contributor to the obesity and
diabetes epidemics,” the public-health school reported on its
 website .  Theater Owners  Theater owners, restaurants, beverage companies, bottlers,
unions, Korean-American grocers and the state’s Hispanic
Chambers of Commerce joined in the lawsuit, arguing that the
board of health lacks authority to institute the ban. They
sought the injunction to block the measure from taking effect
pending trial on the issue.  Chris Gindlesperger, a spokesman for the American Beverage
Association in  Washington , one of the plaintiffs, had said the
ban would have cost local bottlers and distributors at least
$790,000 combined to retool, remold, re-label and restock.  Today, his group said in a statement that the ruling
“provides a sigh of relief to New Yorkers and thousands of
small businesses in  New York City  that would have been harmed by
this arbitrary and unpopular ban.”  Scott DeFife, the National Restaurant Association’s
executive vice president for government affairs, said in an
affidavit that fast-food and sit-down eateries would have had 
to buy tens of thousands of new cups and glasses.  The city’s 52 movie theater owners and their audiences
would have paid more as well, said Robert Sunshine,  executive
director  for New York state at the Washington-based  National
Association of Theatre Owners . Soda accounts for 20 percent of
theater profits and 98 percent of such sales come in servings of
more than 16 ounces, he said.  ‘Sharing Sodas’  “Sharing sodas and other concessions also helps to keep
the movie-going experience affordable,” he said in a court-
filed affidavit.  The proposed ban has been hard to swallow for many New
Yorkers as well.  A Feb. 28  Quinnipiac University poll  found that city voters
oppose it, 51 percent to 46 percent, with a 3.1 percentage-point
error margin. A lobbying group backed by consumers and industry
executives, New Yorkers for Beverage Choices, orchestrated a
series of protests at  City Hall  last year.  Since the provision was introduced in June, the mayor has
referred to it as a serving-size suggestion, not a ban. Everyone
remains free to refill or buy more drinks, as long as none is
larger than 16 ounces, he has said.  ‘Food Manufacturer’  “Every food manufacturer and soft-drink manufacturer, they
have portion control,” the mayor said during a March 10
appearance on  CBS News ’s “Face the Nation.” “What they’re
trying to do is maximize their profits, and what government’s
trying to do is to inform you that if you’re overweight and you
have all these empty calories and you keep eating, your health
is going to suffer.”  At  McDonalds Corp. (MCD)  restaurants, 42-ounce “super-size”
beverages were discontinued in 2004, reducing the hamburger
chain’s largest drink size to 32 ounces. That contrasts with the
7-ounce cups that were the only size McDonald’s offered in 1955,
the city health department said in materials supporting the size
restriction.  A 32-ounce cup of a cola-favored drink contains 374
calories and 102 grams, or about 26 teaspoons, of sugar, the
department said.  Making Choices  McDonald’s had said it intends to limit its sweetened
drinks’ maximum size to 16-ounce cups, said Cheryll Forsatz, the
company’s spokeswoman for the  New York  region.  “We also provide our customers nutritional information
through multiple means to help them make the choices that are
best for them,” she said in an e-mail.  Sugary drinks add about 200 calories a day to the average
person’s diet, contributing to obesity that in New York accounts
for 5,800 deaths, including 1,700 from diabetes; 1,400 cases of
end-stage kidney disease; and 2,600 amputations costing $4
billion a year, said Susan Kansagra, who heads the chronic-
disease prevention and tobacco-control unit of the Health
Department.  Fifty-eight percent of adult New Yorkers and 40 percent of
public-school students are overweight or obese. Ten percent of
adults have been diagnosed with diabetes, she said.  “Today’s ruling unmasks  Mayor Bloomberg ’s misguided soda
ban policy for what it is: a cosmetic solution to a complex
problem,” said  William Thompson , a former city comptroller and
one of five Democrats seeking the party’s mayoral nomination
this year.   The mayor should have focused on encouraging physical 
fitness and voluntary diet improvements, Thompson said.   “To solve the serious health challenge of our city, we
need leadership, not gimmicks,” he said.  The case is New York Statewide Coalition of Hispanic
Chambers of Commerce v. New York City Department of Health and
Mental Hygiene, 653584-2012, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York City Hall
at   hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 