-- NFL Free-Agent Signing Starts Today as Harvin, Boldin Move Teams
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-12T04:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/nfl-s-giants-to-give-cruz-tender-harvin-to-seattle-fox-reports.html
Former Pro Bowl wide receivers
Percy Harvin and Anquan Boldin are on the verge of switching
teams as the National Football League’s free-agent signing
period begins today with fellow wideouts Mike Wallace, Greg Jennings and Wes Welker among the top players on the market.  The trades involving Harvin and Boldin may have
strengthened Super Bowl contenders in the National Football
Conference’s West division.  The Seattle Seahawks yesterday agreed to acquire Harvin
from the Minnesota Vikings in exchange for first- and seventh-
round picks in the draft next month, and a mid-round pick in
2014, according to Fox Sports. Boldin went from the Super Bowl-
champion Baltimore Ravens to the runner-up San Francisco 49ers
for a sixth-round draft pick, according to the Baltimore Sun.  “He’s a great player and he’s another great weapon for
this team,” 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick said yesterday
in a televised interview with ESPN. “The NFC West is a very
tough division now. It’s only getting tougher.”  The NFL’s free-agency and trading periods begin at 4 p.m.
 New York  time, at which time deals with players’ new teams can
become official. For the past three days, NFL teams were
permitted to negotiate with agents of players who will become
unrestricted free agents when their 2012 contracts expire at
today’s deadline.  Clubs also have until the deadline to submit qualifying
offers to restricted free agents. The New York Giants will
assign a first-round tender worth $2.9 million to receiver
Victor Cruz, a restricted free agent, co-owner John Mara said
yesterday, according to the Newark Star-Ledger.  Other Offers  Other teams are free to make offers to Cruz, while the
Giants can retain their leading receiver by matching any offer
he gets, or accept a first-round pick as compensation for
allowing the 26-year-old to sign elsewhere.  “It’s a risk for us, and he is an exciting, dynamic
player,” Mara said, according to the Star-Ledger. “It’s not
going to shock me if somebody makes him an offer.”  Even with Harvin and Boldin changing teams and the Kansas
City Chiefs re-signing leading receiver Dwayne Bowe earlier this
offseason, receivers are among the top targets as free agency
begins.  Wallace, a 26-year-old deep threat who’s led the Pittsburgh
Steelers in yards receiving the past three seasons, is being
targeted by the Miami Dolphins and Vikings, NFL.com reported.
Jennings, 29, has 53 touchdown catches over seven seasons with
the Green Bay Packers, and Welker, 31, has had more than 110
catches in five of his six seasons with the New England Patriots.
The Packers are seeking to re-sign Jennings, while the Patriots
want to retain Welker, NFL.com said.  Running Backs  Steven Jackson, who rushed for 10,135 yards over nine
seasons with the St. Louis Rams, headlines the free agent
running backs available. Other running backs eligible for free
agency include Reggie Bush, Ahmad Bradshaw, Rashard Mendenhall,
Beanie Wells, Michael Turner and  Shonn Greene . Bradshaw, 26, has
spent his entire career with the New York Giants, rushing for
4,232 yards and 32 touchdowns in six seasons.  Safety Ed Reed, who won a Super Bowl title with the Ravens
last season, is also set to become a free agent, along with
pass-rushers Dwight Freeney, Osi Umenyiora and James Harrison,
and offensive linemen Sebastian Vollmer and Andre Smith. Dashon Goldson, Brent Grimes and Aqib Talib will be among the top
defensive backs available.  The Giants yesterday said they had signed defensive tackle
Cullen Jenkins, who played on the Green Bay Packers’ 2010 Super
Bowl championship team and started every game the past two
seasons for the Philadelphia Eagles. The New York Jets signed
2009 Pro Bowl quarterback David Garrard, who was out of the NFL
the past two seasons, to compete with Mark Sanchez.  Stomach Kick  Minnesota’s trade of Harvin to the Seahawks led Vikings
All-Pro running back Adrian Peterson to say yesterday on Twitter
that he felt like he was “kicked in the stomach” several times.
The trade will become official once Harvin, 24, passes a
physical, according to Fox.  Harvin led the Vikings last season in receptions, with 62,
and yards receiving, with 677, despite missing seven games with
an ankle injury. Harvin, a 2009 first-round draft pick who also
has five career kickoff returns for touchdowns, is entering the
final season of his rookie contract.  Boldin’s move to San Francisco from Baltimore will send him
from one Harbaugh brother to the other, as he played under
Ravens coach John Harbaugh and the 49ers are coached by Jim Harbaugh. Boldin, 32, scored the Ravens’ first touchdown in
their Super Bowl victory against the 49ers last month. A three-
time Pro Bowl selection, he caught 65 passes this season for 921
yards and four touchdowns.  Championship Odds  “We have great receivers already but he’s another great
addition,” Kaepernick said on ESPN. “Everybody saw what he was
capable of this past year and what he did in the Super Bowl.
That’s just another playmaker on our team.”  With 7-1 odds of winning the Super Bowl, the 49ers are the
second choice behind the New England Patriots (6-1), according
to Las Vegas-based handicapping information website Pregame.com.
The Seahawks are tied with the Denver Broncos for the third-best
odds at 8-1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  