-- Noma Scare Shows No Restaurant Fully Safe: Richard Vines
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-03-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/noma-scare-shows-no-restaurant-fully-safe-richard-vines.html
The food-poisoning outbreak at Noma
in Copenhagen raises the question of whether it’s safe to dine
anywhere if 63 guests fall sick at the world’s best restaurant.  “Food hygiene is the one thing that every restaurant has
got to get right,” David Moore, owner of Pied a Terre and
L’Autre Pied in London, said in an interview. “It doesn’t
matter what end of the market you’re in, it’s got to be perfect.
Your customers’ health is at stake, and so is your reputation.”  Guests from 12 parties experienced diarrhea and vomiting
from Feb. 12-16,  Denmark ’s health inspection agency said in a
 report  on its website. The norovirus (or Roskilde) outbreak may
have been caused by an employee who fell sick and failed to wash
his hands thoroughly,  Politiken  reported on March 8.  The outbreak wasn’t caught more quickly because Noma didn’t
immediately discard all handled food, disinfect with bleach,
wash all equipment and alert staff after the employee said he
was sick, the newspaper reported. There was only cold water in
the tap that person used, it said. The restaurant failed to
check its computer inbox, which contained two e-mail complaints.  “We are of course devastated that this has happened and
have done everything in our power to ensure it will not happen
again,” Noma’s chef and co-owner Rene Redzepi  said in a
statement . He posted a message on Twitter: “Dear friends, thank
you for your concern. Here are the facts! Best wishes Rene
Redzepi and the entire Noma crew.”  Handmade Intricacy  Noma, which has won the title of World’s Best Restaurant
for three straight years, specializes in intricate plates of
food that require many elements to be assembled by hand. It
shares that characteristic with another winner of that title,
the Fat Duck, where 529 people fell ill with norovirus in 2009.  The U.K. Health Protection Agency report on that outbreak,
caused by contaminated shellfish, said weaknesses in procedure
at the restaurant were partly responsible for failing to halt
the spread of the virus.  Outbreaks of food poisoning at high-profile restaurants in
the U.K. are reassuringly rare. Before the Fat Duck, it was 1999
when 18 diners said they fell sick at Rhodes in the Square,
 Caterer and Hotelkeeper  reported in January that year.  “It would be the worst nightmare to have something like
this happen,” said  Chris Galvin , the chef whose company
operates four restaurants in  London , including Galvin La
Chapelle in the City. “I really feel for Noma. I’m sure they’ve
got the highest standards of hygiene but this can come from
anywhere.”  Safety Consultancy  Galvin, like many of the U.K.’s leading restaurateurs,
employs  Food Alert Ltd ., a food and health safety consultancy.
Food Alert assesses compliance with legislation, provides
training and ensures restaurants meet the standards required for
inspections. It also handles alleged food-poisoning incidents,
which are known in the business as AFPs.  Clients listed on the website include Gordon Ramsay, Mark Hix, the Wolseley, Wahaca, Caprice, All Star Lanes, Benugo,
Leon, Paul, Harry Ramsden’s, Rhubarb at the Royal Opera House,
Wagamama, Vapiano, Hilton at Heathrow and Vapiano.  Galvin estimated that a restaurant company might receive
between five and 10 complaints of sickness a year. He said every
such incident is thoroughly investigated, including checking the
computer to see what dishes were ordered, whether anyone else
had complained and how much alcohol was consumed.  He said it can cost as much as 150 pounds ($224) to
investigate a complaint and he estimated that his company spends
more than 200,000 pounds a year ensuring food hygiene.  Farm Visits  Galvin and his cooks regularly visit farms and other
suppliers and conduct checks on deliveries to see if the
vehicles are clean and properly refrigerated and whether boxes
are damaged. Each restaurant has Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Points, or HAACP, to ensure food is not contaminated.  In each kitchen, one chef is designated to enforce hygiene
standards at every level, from temperature control and
disinfected surfaces through to checking chefs change their
gloves when moving from one type of dish to another.  With millions of diners eating in restaurants each day, no
one can ensure absolute safety. Even if a nation and individual
restaurants have the highest standards, future food-poisoning
outbreaks are inevitable.  It only takes one employee confusing his sickness with a
hangover or failing to wash his hands and viruses may multiply.  Strict training is part of the answer but restaurants must
also learn, or be forced, to report in a timely manner.  If you’re worried about safety in a restaurant, there is
one consolation: Crossing the road to get there is probably more
hazardous.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Elin McCoy  on
wine and  Lance Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 