-- Nordex Gains Most in Two Years on Sales Outlook: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-03-11T16:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/nordex-climbs-to-11-month-high-on-sales-outlook-frankfurt-mover.html
Nordex SE (NDX1) , a German wind-turbine
maker, rose the most in two years in Frankfurt trading after
increasing its sales outlook for the year.  Nordex climbed 15 percent to close at 4.43 euros, the
biggest gain since March 2011, after saying today it sees sales
as high as 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) and a margin on
earnings before interest and taxes of as much as 3 percent.  Revenue jumped 17 percent to 1.075 billion euros last year,
the Hamburg-based manufacturer said in its statement.  “The numbers are phenomenal,” said Wais Samadzada, a
Montega AG analyst with a buy recommendation. “Nordex raised
its sales guidance for this year and generated an extremely
positive cash flow in 2012. While consolidation will probably
continue to hit the wind industry, Nordex is protected.”  Wind-turbine installations in  Germany  may rise as much as
43 percent this year as the home of Siemens AG and Nordex defies
a global slump, the BWE wind lobby said on Jan. 30. That may
help producers that cut prices to compete with Asian peers after
U.S. and European governments lowered clean-energy incentives.  Nordex’s outlook “could trigger upward revisions with
regard to the 2013 consensus,” Christopher Rodler, an analyst
at Warburg Research, said in an e-mailed note.  Nordex booked 75 million euros of charges after output and
job cuts in the U.S. and  China , where sales fell. It instead
focused on higher margins in Europe and  Africa , Samadzada said.  The producer also was first to mimic carmakers in reducing
costs by assembling in platforms, where different models are
built on top of a unified chassis, he said.  “While large wind turbine manufacturers such as  Siemens AG (SIE) 
and  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  want to manufacture in platforms,
Nordex is already there,” Samadzada said. “They’re about two
years ahead of the pack.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  