-- Norilsk Names Ex-De Beers Chief Gareth Penny as Board Chairman
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-03-11T11:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/norilsk-names-ex-de-beers-chief-gareth-penny-as-board-chairman.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN)  appointed
former  De Beers (AAL)  chief Gareth Penny as chairman after the nickel
company’s biggest owners ended a four-year feud over governance.  Penny was elected as investors chose a 13-member board
today to reflect changes in shareholder structure, Chief
Executive Officer  Vladimir Potanin  said in Moscow. Potanin’s
Interros Holding Co. and United Co. Rusal, the two largest
shareholders, have four representatives each.  Norilsk, Russia’s biggest mining company, is bringing in a
fresh board to revive a share price that’s down 20 percent in
two years. Interros and billionaire Oleg Deripaska’s Rusal
signed an agreement in December to end a conflict that had 
divided investors over management and distribution of profits. 
Norilsk may declare a dividend after its financial report is 
ready in April, Potanin told reporters today.  Penny is already chairman of coal miner  New World Resources
Plc (NWR) , and previously served as De Beers chief executive officer
from 2006 to 2010. His appointment at Norilsk today marks his
first election to the board as an independent director.  Enos Banda, founder of Freetel Capital Ltd., and Cornelis Prinsloo, majority owner of Natural Resource Partnership Ltd.,
also were named independent directors.  Rustech head Sergey Chemezov won a seat after being
nominated by billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s Metalloinvest, which
has a 4 percent stake in Norilsk. The final member is Sergey
Bratukhin, who sits on several boards of companies run by
billionaire Alexander Abramov. He was recommended by Roman Abramovich’s Millhouse Capital, Potanin said.  Abramov and Abramovich are partners at steel producer  Evraz
Plc (EVR) , and may also team up at Norilsk, Vedomosti reported in
December. Millhouse Capital agreed to buy a 5.9 percent stake in
the nickel company from Potanin and Rusal as a part of the
agreement to balance the board.  Potanin, Rusal and Millhouse will close the deal by the end
of April, the CEO said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  