-- Oaktree Group Buys Bank-Leased Offices for $240 Million
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-03-11T23:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/oaktree-group-buys-bank-leased-offices-for-240-million.html
A unit of  Oaktree Capital Group
LLC (OAK) , the world’s biggest distressed-debt investor, bought 40
office buildings for $240 million from a real estate investment
trust that’s selling assets to repay shareholders.  The properties, located in eight U.S. states, have 3.4
million square feet (315,900 square meters) of space and are 90
percent leased to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , which uses them for
regional operations and data centers, Los Angeles-based Oaktree
said today in a statement. Its partner in the purchase is
National Financial Realty Inc., a closely held Los Angeles firm
that rents space to banking tenants.  The seller is First States Investors B LP, an affiliate of
Newport Beach, California-based KBS REIT I, a nontraded REIT
that completed a share sale in 2008, said Vincent Pellerito,
president and chief executive officer of National Financial
Realty. KBS said a year ago that it was  selling assets  to pay
down debt and return money to investors.  KBS realized a gain of about $26 million on the sale after
fees and expenses, said David Snyder, chief financial officer of
the REIT’s day-to-day manager, KBS Capital Advisors, also based
in  Newport Beach . The properties were transferred to KBS to
satisfy loan obligations in late 2011, and KBS isn’t a long-term
holder of those types of bank buildings, he said.  “No one would choose to sell these assets with an 11-year
lease to Wells Fargo if they didn’t have to,” Pellerito said in
a telephone interview. The $240 million price equates to about
$71 per square foot, below the $200 to $300 per square foot,
excluding land, that the properties would cost to develop today,
Pellerito said. “That’s really cheap.”  Below Market  The purchase price per square foot is mainly attributable
to the in-place rents being below market and reflects Wells
Fargo’s right to vacate, without penalty, as much as 234,000
square feet in 2017 within the properties or in combination with
other real estate, Snyder said.  Ten of the buildings account for about 2.8 million square
feet and are located in the central business districts of cities
including Philadelphia, Atlanta and Raleigh and Winston-Salem,
 North Carolina .  “These aren’t some ancillary buildings,” Pellerito said.  KBS REIT I suspended shareholder distributions in March
2012, according to a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  The Oaktree group’s purchase was done at a capitalization
rate of about 7.5 percent, Pellerito said. A cap rate, a measure
of yield for the real estate industry, is net operating income
divided by purchase price. When commercial-property values
peaked in 2007, some Manhattan office buildings sold for cap
rates of less than 5 percent.  ‘Well-Positioned’  The acquisition “is another example of Oaktree’s
commitment to relationship-based transactions with well-
positioned strategic operating partners like NFR, in addition to
lenders and borrowers in need of capital solutions,”  John Brady , managing director and head of global real estate for
Oaktree, said in the statement.  Oaktree provided a majority of the equity for the purchase,
said Pellerito, declining to provide additional details of the
financing.  The properties are in the Carolinas,  Pennsylvania ,  Georgia ,
 Virginia ,  Florida ,  New Jersey  and  Maryland . Eight of the
buildings, with 1.2 million square feet, are in North Carolina,
according to the statement.  National Financial Realty was formed in 2006 by Pellerito.
It owns about 142 properties with more than 8.1 million square
feet throughout the U.S., according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  