-- Obama Meets With Arab-American Leaders Before Mideast Visit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-03-11T22:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/obama-meets-with-arab-american-leaders-ahead-of-mideast-visit.html
 President  Barack Obama  met with
Arab-American leaders today to seek their views ahead of his
trip next week to  Israel , the West Bank and  Jordan .  Obama met last week with Jewish-American leaders. Today’s
meeting was the first time Obama met at the White House with
Arab-American leaders as a group, said James Zogby, president of
the Arab American Institute, a policy center in  Washington .  He was among 10 participants who also included
representatives of the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination
Committee, American Federation of Ramallah- Palestine , American
Task Force for Palestine, an imam and an Orthodox priest.  “We were delighted to have had the opportunity to weigh in
on the visit,” Zogby said in an interview following the
meeting. “There’s enormous expectations and a bit of cynicism.
People need to feel a sense of renewed confidence again that the
president cares.”  Obama told participants he will use the visit to express
U.S. support for Palestinians, an independent Palestinian state,
the  Palestinian Authority  and security and political reform in
Jordan as well as underscoring the U.S. commitment to Israel’s
security, according to a White House official who was authorized
to release a brief description of the meeting on condition of
anonymity.  Shared History  During the trip, the official also said Obama will speak
directly to the Israeli people about about the shared history,
interest and values of the U.S. and Israel.  Obama’s visit to Israel next week will be his first since
he took office in 2009, although he made a similar trip as a
candidate for president in 2008. It comes as the U.S. is seeking
more time for diplomatic pressure rather than military action to
curb Iran’s nuclear efforts. It also follows elections in Israel
that are ushering in a new governing coalition. Obama is
scheduled to meet with Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu .  With the Israeli-Palestinian  peace process  stalled, the
administration isn’t poised to announce developments in
connection with the trip.  Zogby declined to share details of today’s meeting, other
than to say he and other participants offered their views on
what the Arab community would want to hear from the president
and places he should consider visiting.  “Given the fact that we had not had a meeting before and
we had a meeting now, and it’s in advance of the trip, I felt
very good,” Zogby said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  