-- Lockheed F-35 Still Facing Turbulence Despite Gains: GAO
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-11T20:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/lockheed-f-35-still-facing-turbulence-despite-gains-gao.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35
fighter still faces major budget challenges although it achieved
seven of 10 key management goals last year, congressional
auditors said today.  In its latest annual assessment of the Pentagon’s most
expensive program, the U.S. Government Accountability Office
said the “current outlook is improved but long-term
affordability is a major concern.”  The program’s current plan requires an average of $12.6
billion a year through 2037, in contrast to this year’s request
for $9.1 billion, “with more austere budgets looming,” the GAO
said.  The $12.6 billion annual requirement is “an unprecedented
demand on the defense procurement budget” that “will be
difficult in a period of declining or flat defense budgets and
competition with other ‘big ticket items,’” such as the KC-46
tanker made by Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , the GAO said.  The agency said in its report that the F-35’s
“manufacturing and supply processes are also improving --
indications such as factory throughput, labor efficiency and
quality measures are all positive.”  Still, “going forward, ensuring affordability -- the
ability to acquire the aircraft in quantity” that keeps the
per-plane price down -- “is of paramount concern,” it said.  The total cost of the $395.7 billion program has increased
by 70 percent since October 2001, when Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed Martin beat Boeing for the contract.  “Overall, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program is moving
in the right direction after a long, expensive and arduous
learning period, the GAO said. ‘‘It still has tremendous
challenges ahead.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  