-- Hollande Snub Fuels Charm Offensive to Show He’s No Sarkozy
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2013-03-12T19:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/hollande-hostility-fuels-charm-offensive-to-show-he-s-no-sarkozy.html
President Francois Hollande, the
most-unpopular French leader in more than 30 years, is
struggling to show supporters he’s not dipping into predecessor
Nicolas Sarkozy’s playbook to reverse an economic slump.  The  European debt crisis , which is in its fourth year, and
France’s  stagnating economy  are preventing the Socialist
president from veering too far from efforts advocated by Sarkozy
and  Germany ’s Angela Merkel to cap the budget deficit, shrink
government spending and push through structural changes.  “Often the line is very fine between the two but Hollande
must maintain the idea that he is more left wing,” said Eric Bonnet, a political opinion analyst at  BVA polling institute  in
Paris. “The big challenge for Hollande is to give his
supporters the feeling that what he does is different from
Sarkozy, to reassure them on his policies.”  That’s what the president is seeking to do as he started a
two-day visit yesterday to Dijon, in the Burgundy region, the
first of many he plans in  rural France . Yet with unemployment at
a  13-year high , a widened  trade defici t,  Europe ’s second-largest
economy on the brink of its third recession in four years and
the need to raise an additional 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion)
in spending cuts this year to keep shrinking the budget deficit,
he’s constrained in the assurances he can provide.  “His wings are clipped,” said Mathieu Plane, an economist
at research institute OFCE in Paris. “As long as he must comply
with very tough austerity measures, as long the economy is not
expanding to give him some leeway on state measures, his margin
for maneuver is minimal.”  Sarkozy Better  With no immediate hope for an economic recovery, Hollande’s
program for 2013 is looking very similar to his predecessor’s,
infuriating his political allies and supporters.  Hollande’s popularity fell in February, leaving him the
most unpopular French leader since 1981, a TNS-Sofres poll
showed. More than two-thirds of the French and 44 percent of
those who voted for him in the second and decisive round of the
May election say they’re disappointed with him, according to a
BVA poll in Le Parisien on March 3.  Worse, a majority -- or 53 percent -- of the respondents in
an Ifop survey for Paris Match magazine released today said they
prefer Sarkozy over his successor. In July, 55 percent said
Hollande was a better president.  The BVA survey showed that 54 percent of the respondents
believe Hollande isn’t doing enough to change  France  and most
said he won’t fulfill his promise to reverse the trend of rising
unemployment by the end of the year or make enough reforms to
stabilize the country.  ‘Old Fuddy-Duddy’  Hollande’s soft and easy manner -- compared with Sarkozy’s
relentless, frenzied activity -- have earned him the
unflattering nickname of “Pepere,” or “Old Fuddy-Duddy,” in
the French media.  Still, with the European Commission breathing down his neck
on fiscal discipline, Hollande needs to make a series of
unpopular overhauls, including reshaping the overextended
pensions system, cutting public spending and pushing through
more-flexible labor rules.  His pledge to cut the budget deficit to 3 percent of gross
domestic product this year has already been ruled unattainable
by the commission. His efforts are also aimed at sending
reassuring messages across the Rhine to  Chancellor Merkel  who
has pushed for austerity over Hollande’s electoral campaign
promise of growth policies.  “The European factor -- the obligation to cut deficits and
spending and make reforms -- is exactly what Sarkozy had to deal
with,” OFCE’s Plane said. “It annuls all measures Hollande
wants to impose to boost jobs and growth.”  Rural Roots  To appease an increasingly irritated population ahead of a
late March television presentation of his strategy for
rekindling growth and employment, Hollande launched this week a
new agenda item: regular visits to “real France” with a
sleepover in the nearest small town.  He completes today a two-day tour in and around the
Burgundy wine and mustard-making town of  Dijon . Shaking hands
with politicians, shopkeepers, teenagers, taxpayers and wine
makers, he’s turning to what he had neglected to do since his
May election -- visits across France that were a Sarkozy
trademark during his five-year term.  “Same visits, but Hollande has changed the method: he
wants to show he is closer to the people, taking more time; that
he is the real thing, like President Jacques Chirac,” BVA’s
Bonnet said.  Not Welcome  Ahead of his Dijon visit, Hollande gave an interview to the
local  Le Bien Public newspaper , where he stressed his roots in
rural France and his mandates as mayor of Tulle in Correze,
France’s most remote region, unlike Sarkozy who’s from an
upscale town on the outskirts of Paris.  Hollande has restated his promise to reverse the
unemployment trend and chanted his three mantras ”constancy,
endurance and hope.”  Still, the last five opinion surveys have been disastrous
for the self-proclaimed “normal” president.  Hollande wasn’t always welcome during his Dijon trip, with
bystanders in the unemployment-ridden neighborhood  Les Gresilles 
asking him about his abandoned promise to make growth a priority
and others demanding help on finding jobs.  In the  Le Bien Public interview , Hollande detailed his
measures, which are very similar to those promoted by Sarkozy.  While Sarkozy created a “sovereign investment fund” to
invest in small- and medium-size companies, Hollande has started
a “public investment bank” to grant them loans. Both work
under the state-owned Caisse des Depots et Consignations.  Job Creation  Sarkozy’s pension reforms, lifting the retirement age to 62
from 60, were passed in spite of large protests and a tough
face-to-face with unions. Hollande is negotiating with unions to
pass his version of an overhaul to stabilize the system until
2030, with the pension program near-bankruptcy.  Both leaders have sought to boost competitiveness and
innovation through tax breaks for companies. Both have used
value-added taxes to bolster government receipts.  In January Hollande orchestrated an agreement between
unions and business representatives to make the labor market
more flexible. The measure is widely rejected by his far-left
allies and his own supporters, BVA’s Bonnet said. Hollande has
also unveiled measures to create youth jobs, with the
unemployment rate for people below the age of 25 almost double
the national rate of 10.6 percent.  “What really differentiates Hollande from Sarkozy are his
measures to boost job creation,” OFCE’s Plane said. “There’s
continuity in the economic policy between him and Sarkozy, but
the requirements of exiting the crisis are foisting that on him.
A return to economic expansion could make a difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  