-- Too-Big-to-Fail Subsidy Claim Data Flaws Faulted by Bank Groups
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-03-11T14:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/too-big-to-fail-subsidy-claim-data-flaws-faulted-by-bank-groups.html
Lobby groups for the largest U.S.
banks pushed back against claims that they remain too big
to fail, rebutting assertions by lawmakers and regulators that
they enjoy a “taxpayer subsidy” because of their size.  The Dodd-Frank Act, passed by Congress in response to the
2008 credit crisis, greatly diminished whatever advantage the
biggest lenders held over smaller rivals, five industry groups
wrote today in a brief on the issue. Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a
Massachusetts Democrat, used outdated information when she
raised the matter at a hearing last month, the groups said.  “There is substantial evidence that the market recognizes
the impact Dodd-Frank has had on investor expectations,” the
Clearing House, Financial Services Forum, Financial Services
Roundtable, Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association and American Bankers Association said in their
brief. “Given the sizable costs associated with new
regulations, together with the new orderly liquidation
framework, any purported TBTF-related funding advantage has
clearly been reduced or even eliminated.”  The financial-industry groups, representing lenders such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America  Corp. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
are responding to complaints by lawmakers and regulators
including Warren and Dallas Federal Reserve President  Richard Fisher  that Dodd-Frank didn’t do enough to rein in big lenders.  Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, is planning to
reintroduce legislation that would cap bank size. Brown and
Senator  David Vitter , a Louisiana Republican, are also preparing
a bill that would increase capital requirements above the
international Basel III standards.  Bernanke Questioned  Warren questioned Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  over what
she said was a taxpayer subsidy worth $83 billion, citing an
International Monetary Fund working paper on the funding
advantage big banks get because of the market perception that
they are protected by the government against failure. In their
brief, the industry groups said the paper cited by Warren used
data on banks’ borrowing costs before Dodd-Frank was passed.  “Flawed arguments regarding subsidies to large banking
companies are at best out of date, and their use to call for
draconian structural limits on the financial industry is out of
step with the diverse financial needs of the 21st century U.S.
economy,” the groups said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  