-- Moody’s Says Halting Catalunya Banc Auction Is Negative
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-03-11T14:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/moody-s-says-halting-catalunya-banc-auction-is-negative.html
Spain ’s decision to suspend the
sale of the nationalized lender Catalunya Banc SA is negative
for the country’s banks because it shows a dearth of belief in
the clean-up process, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Halting the auction “is credit negative for the entire
banking system because it can be interpreted as the private-
sector’s lack of confidence in the success of the restructuring
and clean-up of weaker banks,” Moody’s said in an analysis
published today.  Spain’s bank rescue fund, known as Frob, said last week it
was suspending the sale of Catalunya Banc, which was
nationalized in 2011. Spain has spent about 40 billion euros
($52 billion) to bail out lenders including the Barcelona-based
bank that were taken over by the state as a property crash
inflicted mounting losses on the financial system.  Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said today that there
would be “co-ordination of behavior” between state-owned banks
including the Bankia group and Catalunya Banc.  The government wants the lenders to grant credit to the
economy in a “reasonable way,” de Guindos told broadcaster
Antena 3 in an interview. He ruled out merging them.  Spain had planned to sell Catalunya Banc by the end of
March after a European Commission-approved restructuring plan
envisaged recapitalizing it with 9 billion euros and making it
transfer soured assets to a so-called bad bank.  “Despite the broad public support package that Catalunya
Banc has received, the Frob so far has not succeeded in finding
a buyer for the bank,” Moody’s said. “The suspension suggests
that the private sector is unwilling to acquire the bank without
additional support or safeguards against the remaining risks
that still may be embedded in the bank’s balance sheet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  