-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude May Decline on Weaker Refinery Demand
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-03-11T01:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/top-oil-market-news-crude-may-decline-on-weaker-refinery-demand.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil May Fall as Weak Demand Boosts Supplies, Survey Shows   West Texas Intermediate oil may fall next week after weaker
demand from refineries boosted U.S. crude inventories to the
highest level in eight months, a Bloomberg survey showed.  PetroChina Looks to Add to $3.7 Billion in Australian Deals  PetroChina Co., the nation’s biggest oil and gas producer,
is looking to make more deals in Australia, adding to about $3.7
billion in acquisitions as part of a global drive to feed
surging Chinese demand.  Iran ’s Salehi Says West Shows ‘Good Faith’ on Nuclear Talks (1)  Prospects for resolving the conflict over Iran’s nuclear
program have improved following signs of “good faith” from
Western powers, Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi said.  U.S. Gasoline Falls to $3.7394 a Gallon in Lundberg Survey (1)  The average price for regular gasoline at U.S. pumps fell
5.56 cents a gallon in the past two weeks to $3.7394 a gallon,
according to Lundberg Survey Inc.  Shell Seeks Fujairah Crude Storage as U.A.E. Port Plans Berths  Royal Dutch Shell Plc is in talks to secure as much as 1
million cubic meters of crude-oil storage at the United Arab
Emirates port of Fujairah, in what would be the region’s first
such crude-tank deal with foreign companies.  Kuwait Sets April Crude at $1.15 Discount for Asia  Kuwait announces April crude-oil differential for Asia as
discount to Oman-Dubai benchmarks in faxed statement today from
Kuwait Petroleum Corp.  Iraq Sets April Basrah Lt at $1.80 Discount for Asia  Iraq  announced April crude-oil differentials in an e-mailed
statement from the Oil Ministry today.  Kurdish Oil Deal Would Be Deficit Game Changer: Turkey Credit  Turkey is seeking to gain a foothold in northern Iraq’s
energy industry, which would help it obtain oil and gas supplies
and cut the current-account deficit.  Kidnapped Foreign Nationals Killed in Nigeria, Diplomats Say  A group of foreign nationals kidnapped by an Islamist group
in northern Nigeria last month have been killed, governments in
Italy,  Greece  and the U.K. said.  Oil Bets Fall to 2-Month Low as Prices Break $90: Energy Markets  Hedge funds reduced bullish oil bets to a two-month low as
surging U.S. supplies pushed prices below $90 a barrel for the
first time this year.  OPEC  Saudi Arabia Said to Raise February Oil Output From 20-Month Low  Saudi Arabia raised crude production in February to 9.15
million barrels a day, an increase of 100,000 barrels daily from
the previous month, an official with knowledge of the country’s
oil policy said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  PBF Energy Flares Sulfur Dioxide at Oil Refinery in Delaware  PBF Energy Inc. reported flaring of sulfur dioxide at its
Delaware City, Delaware, oil refinery, according to a state
environmental report.  Exxon Reports Gases Flared at Oil Refinery in Beaumont, Texas  Exxon Mobil Corp. reported flaring of gases including
carbon monoxide and hydrogen sulfide at its Beaumont refinery,
according to the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.  Fire at Kuwait’s Mina Abdullah Refinery Extinguished, KUNA Says  A “limited” fire broke out earlier today at the 370,000
b/d refinery, Kuwait News Agency reports, citing Kuwait National
Petroleum spokesman Mansour al-Ajmi. KUNA also reports:  Petrobras Appeals Court Order Halting Argentina Refinery  Co. says it complied w/authorities’ demands and refinery is
operating under existing environmental regulations.  Philadelphia Energy Solutions Refinery Reported Unit Startups  Philadelphia Energy Solutions shut the No. 433 Alkylation
unit March 5 due to mechanical problems after starting the unit
March 3.  Exxon Beaumont Restarted Boiler After It Tripped Offline  Exxon Mobil Corp. reported the boiler tripped yesterday at
Texas plant, resulting in flaring from the fluid catalytic
cracker.  Tesoro Anacortes Reports Equipment Shut Down for Maintenance  Units shut not identified in filing to Northwest Clean Air
Agency.  Gulf Oils Weaken as Brent Output Increase Narrows Spread to WTI  Gulf of  Mexico  oils on the spot market weakened against
futures as Brent’s discount to West Texas Intermediate narrowed
after a pipeline system in the North Sea returned from an
unplanned five-day shutdown.  PBF Paulsboro Refinery Shuts Sulfur Recovery Unit  PBF Energy Inc.’s Paulsboro refinery reported flaring due
to a 30 minute outage at sulfur recovery unit 3, according to a
filing with New Jersey regulators.  Valero Corpus Heavy Oil Cracker Increasing to Planned Rates  Valero Energy Corp. completed planned maintenance on a
heavy oil cracker at its Corpus Christi West plant.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
 Japan  was unchanged at 10.36 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  China Plans Revamp of Railways, Energy, Food Safety Ministries  China  plans to revamp government bodies responsible for
energy, railways and food safety as the country’s new leaders
seek to cut red tape and graft in the biggest top-level
reorganization since 2008.  Beach Says It’s Exploring Major  Australia  Gas Field With Chevron  Beach Energy Ltd. said the Cooper Basin region in
Australia’s outback, where it’s searching for natural gas with
Chevron Corp., will be a “major onshore petroleum province.”  EON Study Weighs Sale of Renewable-Energy Unit, Spiegel Says  Consultants prepared report for EON on possible spinoff;
EON says no current plans to sell unit: Der Spiegel.  Fukushima Seeks Revival in Radiation-Free Farms With No Soil  Kawauchi, a farming village 30 kilometers (19 miles) from
the site of the world’s worst atomic disaster in 25 years,
feared for its future as radiation from the crippled Fukushima
nuclear plant soaked into the soil. Then Takeo Endo suggested
farming without soil.  David Suzuki Says Japan Squandering Fukushima Crisis Opportunity  Japan is wasting the opportunity of the Fukushima disaster
by failing to use the crisis and public opposition toward
nuclear reactors to form an energy mix more reliant on renewable
energy, Canadian author, environmentalist and geneticist David
Suzuki says.  Fukushima Toxic Waste Swells as Japan Marks March 11 Disaster  Every morning, 3,000 cleanup workers at the Fukushima
disaster site don hooded hazard suits, air-filtered face masks
and multiple glove layers. Most of the gear is radioactive waste
by day’s end.  Azeri Police Break Up Demonstration Against Military Violence  Thousands of Azeris demonstrated in the capital, Baku, in a
rally organized through Facebook Inc. to protest non-combat
deaths in the armed forces.  Qatar Finds First Natural Gas Deposit in 42 Years, Minister Says  Qatar, the emirate with the third- largest global reserves
of natural gas, found a deposit with 2.5 trillion cubic feet of
the fuel, its first discovery since uncovering the world’s
biggest gas field 42 years ago.  Carney Legacy Revealed in Loonie Sentiment Reversal: Currencies  Canada dollar forecasts are falling at the fastest pace
since the recession as slower growth than anticipated by the
central bank means interest rates will stay low for longer,
pushing international investors away.  Dollar Index in Longest Rise Since June as Jobs Data Show Growth  The Dollar Index gained for a fifth straight week, its
longest rally since June, as employers added more jobs last
month than forecast, signaling economic prospects for the U.S.
exceeding other developed nations.  Dubai Shares Rise on Bets Drop Overdone Given Recovery, Oil  Dubai stocks rose the most in almost three weeks on bets
last week’s drop was overdone given the outlook for earnings and
as crude price increased after U.S. employment figures signaled
higher fuel demand.  Israel ’s Benchmark TA-25 Gains on Bets Ruling Coalition Near (1)  Israel’s TA-25 benchmark index rallied to the highest in
almost three weeks as concerns over the composition of the
government faded on reports Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
was close to forming a coalition.  Hedge Funds Cut Bets to ’09 Low as Goldman Says Buy: Commodities  Hedge funds cut bets on a commodity rally to a four-year
low on signs of surplus supply in everything from coffee to zinc
before Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said prices had fallen too far
and investors should buy.  China Gold Imports From Hong Kong Drop First Time in Four Months  Gold imports by China from Hong Kong fell for the first
time in four months in January after a surge in purchases in the
previous months to meet Lunar New Year demand and as investors
curbed buying on falling prices.  Ryan Says His Budget Slows Annual Spending Growth to 3.4% (1)  House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan said his 2014
budget proposal to balance the government’s books in a decade
assumes the repeal of Democratic President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law and would slow annual spending growth to 3.4
percent.  Jeb Bush Wouldn’t Reject Higher Taxes to Resolve Budget Woes (1)  Jeb Bush, the former governor of  Florida  and potential
contender for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination, said
he wouldn’t automatically reject raising taxes to solve the
federal government’s budget woes.  SPORTS  Chelsea Recovers to Draw 2-2 at Manchester United in F.A. Cup  Chelsea came back from 2-0 down to draw 2-2 at Manchester
United in the quarterfinals of English soccer’s F.A. Cup.
Millwall tied 0-0 with Blackburn in today’s other match.  England Beats Italy to Stay on Course for Six Nations Grand Slam  England  held on to beat  Italy  18-11 and move within one win
of a Grand Slam in European rugby’s Six Nations Championship.  Finn’s Defiance Helps England to Draw New Zealand Cricket Test  Steven Finn was the keystone of England’s defiance
yesterday as his team held out for a draw in the first cricket
Test against New Zealand.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       91.70  -0.25  -0.3  Nymex    April
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    110.62  -0.23  -0.2    Ice    April
Gasoil ($/Ton)         930.25  +3.75  +0.4    Ice    April
Gasoline (c/Gal)       320.35     --    --  Nymex    April
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.63     --  +0.1  Nymex    April
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    110.48  -0.24  -0.2    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            297.20  -0.29  -0.1  Nymex    April
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            82.82  +0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,576.90  +0.1
MSCI World Index     1,428.72  +0.3
Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  Copy and paste this link for Table: NI $790 FJM  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  