-- Oppenheimer Reaches $2.8 Million SEC Accord Over Fund
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-11T22:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/oppenheimer-reaches-2-8-million-sec-accord-over-fund.html
Oppenheimer & Co. (OPY)  agreed to pay
about $2.9 million to settle claims by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission that it misled investors in a private-equity
fund.  The portfolio manager of the Oppenheimer fund valued its
largest investment at a “significant markup” to an estimated
value, the SEC said in a statement today. The company also
reached a settlement with Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley  for about $132,000.  The settlement stems from Oppenheimer Global Resource
Private Equity Fund I LP, which invests in other private-equity
funds, and an investment in Cartesian Investors-A LLC, according
to the SEC. The valuation markup increased the internal rate of
return from 3.8 percent to 38.3 percent, for the quarter ended
June 30, 2009, the regulator said.  Two Massachusetts pension plans sued Oppenheimer over
investments in the fund, claiming Oppenheimer had inflated the
value of the fund’s holdings. That lawsuit was dismissed by a
federal judge in Boston.  Oppenheimer will pay $2.3 million to investors, including
about $350,000 total to the pension funds that sued, according
to the SEC and Coakley’s office.  Brian Maddox, a spokesman for New York-based Oppenheimer,
said the company had cooperated with the SEC and the
Massachusetts Attorney General’s Office during the
investigation.  “Oppenheimer Asset Management believes it has put in place
additional policies and procedures designed to ensure that
valuations of portfolio positions in its marketing documents are
determined in a manner consistent with its obligations to
investors,” Maddox said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  