-- Hostess Says No Rival Bids Received for Snack Business
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-03-11T23:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/hostess-says-no-rival-bids-received-for-snack-business.html
Hostess Brands Inc., the bankrupt
maker of Wonder bread, said no competing bids were received for
its snack-cake business including Twinkies, resulting in a
proposed auction to be canceled.  A joint offer from  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and C. Dean
Metropoulos & Co. was the only qualified bid received by the
deadline, lawyers for hostess said in court papers filed today
in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in White Plains, New York.
“Accordingly, pursuant to the bidding procedures order, no
auction will be conducted and buyer is the successful bidder,”
the lawyers said.  Apollo and Metropoulos offered as much as $410 million for
the Hostess snack-cake business, which also includes CupCakes,
Ding Dongs and Ho Hos, and other assets, including five bakeries
and equipment.  Hostess, previously known as Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
exited the earlier bankruptcy under the control of buyout firm
Ripplewood Holdings LLC and lenders.  Under the accord, the brands to be acquired by Apollo and
Metropoulos will include Hostess, Dolly Madison, Mini Muffins,
Zingers and Suzy Q’s. Hostess Feb. 11 won bankruptcy court
approval to hold auctions for brands including Twinkies. A sale
hearing, to approve the highest and best bids, is set for March
19.  Mark Semer , a spokesman for Metropoulos, didn’t immediately
respond to a request seeking comment on the court filing.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo, declined to
immediately comment.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-bk-22052, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (White Plains).
The prior bankruptcy was In re Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
04-45814, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Missouri
(Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware. at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  