-- Overseas Tax Savings for U.S. Drugmakers Under Threat
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-03-11T20:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/overseas-tax-savings-for-u-s-drugmakers-under-threat.html
The six biggest U.S. drugmakers
avoided paying $7.05 billion in U.S. taxes last year by shifting
their profits overseas. That’s almost double the amount they
saved using the same strategy 10 years earlier, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  For years, multinationals such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Merck & Co. (MRK) 
and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  have been moving ownership of patents and
trademarks to subsidiaries in  low- or no-tax countries . This has
allowed drug companies, as well as businesses in several other
industries, to skirt paying U.S. taxes on sales of those
products unless the money is returned home.  While the practice of shifting assets and profits overseas
is legal, that could change. As the trend continues to grow in
an era when the government is desperate to raise revenue, the
strategy has drawn the ire of legislators eager to shut it down.  “The right kind of  tax reform  could do a lot to bring
corporate profits back to the United States for investment and
job creation,” said  Charles Grassley , a U.S. senator from Iowa,
in an e-mail. “The current system provides an incentive for
companies to keep money overseas indefinitely.”  Merck and J&J were the biggest drug company winners in 2012
with savings of about $2 billion each attributable to the
strategy, according to regulatory filings. The reports by the
six drugmakers, filed last month, come as U.S. lawmakers are
debating potential tax code changes designed to shrink the
federal  budget deficit  and crank up job-producing business
activity in the U.S.  Untaxed Profits  Eighty-three companies have stockpiled $1.43 trillion in
untaxed profits in foreign countries, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The leader is General Electric Co., which said in
a Feb. 26 filing it has $108 billion sitting overseas.  Among drugmakers, Pfizer reported having $73 billion
abroad,  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  $40 billion and Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. and Eli Lilly Co. $21 billion each.  Merck’s  shares  climbed 1.6 percent to $43.66 at the close
in New York. Pfizer rose less than 1 percent to $28.25. J&J
gained less than 1 percent to $78.44.  Republicans such as Grassley and Michigan’s  Dave Camp , the
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, want to
encourage companies to repatriate their stockpiles in the hope
that bringing the money home will lead to investment and job
creation. A proposal by Camp would exempt earnings from U.S.
taxes and limit the ability of companies to shift their profits
into low- or no-tax countries.  Jacob Lew , sworn in Feb. 28 as President  Barack Obama ’s
treasury secretary, told Republicans on the Senate Finance
Committee that he saw “common ground” that could be considered
on the issue.  Effective Rate  The federal corporate income tax in the U.S. is 35 percent.
Last year, the six biggest drugmakers cut their effective rate
by more than half, a record for the decade, according to a
review of 10 years of filings by  Bloomberg News . The filings
also show that tax avoidance strategies make up a significant
portion of the profits that investors use to assess drugmakers’
profitability.  Spokesmen for the six drugmakers declined to comment or
make any of their tax staff available for an interview.  In 2012, for instance, 20 percent of the adjusted earnings
per share reported by New York-based  Bristol-Myers (BMY)  came from
cutting its  tax rate , not profits on its drugs. At Abbott, based
in Abbott Park, Illinois, and Indianapolis-based Lilly, it was
19 and 16 percent, respectively.  The tax avoidance strategy has grown. In 2003, the six
pharmaceutical companies saved $3.85 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from 10 years of regulatory filings. In
2012, that number had grown to $7.05 billion.  Overseas Profits  At the same time, the companies often keep losses from
failed drugs and other costs based in  the U.S. , as a way to
further cut their federal tax burden.  Bristol-Myers reported all of its profits occurring
overseas, a move that helped cut their U.S. rate by 29
percentage points, according to corporate filings. The New York-
based company’s annual report shows a $271 million U.S. loss,
with $2.61 billion in earnings abroad. At the same time, the
report said 59 percent of its  sales  were in the U.S.  The company explained its tax strategy on an earnings call
in January, saying it had “restructured some legal entities”
to help lower its tax rate and compensate for the loss of a
major product, the drug Plavix, which had gone off patent. That
restructuring involved shifting where the company earned its
profits by selling assets to overseas subsidiaries.  Transfer Pricing  Companies shift high-value assets to overseas subsidiaries
in low-tax countries where the profits are booked using a
process known as “ transfer pricing .”  While drugmakers aren’t
alone in their use of the provision, “they are the poster
children for aggressive transfer pricing,” said  Martin Sullivan , a former Treasury Department economist and a
contributing editor at Tax Analysts.  The median tax benefit of all six companies from locating
profits overseas in 2012 was $1.12 billion. After Merck, the
biggest benefits went to J&J, at $1.89 billion, and Abbott, at
$1.56 billion. Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, recorded
$16.8 billion in pretax foreign profits and a $4.73 billion
pretax U.S. loss, and a tax savings of $362 million, the
smallest for the six companies.  The other drugmakers reviewed were J&J, which is based in
 New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , Abbott Laboratories of Abbott Park,
Illinois, and Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)   The details of how companies shift the profits are under
regular scrutiny by the IRS, which has filed suit when companies
go too far. GlaxoSmithKline Plc, for example, paid the IRS $3.4
billion in a 2012 transfer pricing settlement.  Strategy Downside  There are also downsides to the tax strategy. While those
profits look good on balance sheets, they’re of less use to the
companies to pay dividends or acquire businesses.  That means money that could be going to the U.S. government
to reduce the debt or pay for taxpayer services is instead
sitting offshore. And profits that could be returned to
investors or used for investment in the U.S., does the same.  “They’re booking their profits offshore and they’re taking
losses in the U.S.,” said Tax Analysts’ Sullivan. “But you put
it all over there, and at some point it’s ridiculous. You could
have a 0 percent effective rate, but then you’ve got no cash.”  While it can be difficult to bring that money back untaxed,
it’s not impossible, as a Senate committee detailed in a
September hearing on computer maker  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s tax
maneuvers.  The system is “broken and outdated,” wrote Michelle Dimarob, a spokesman for Camp, the Republican who chairs the
House Ways and Means Committee, in an e-mail. “It is well past
time to undertake a comprehensive rewrite of the  tax code  that
bolsters the competitiveness of the U.S. in the global
marketplace,” Camp’s spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  