-- How Misguided U.S. Aid Contributed to Mali’s Coup
-- B y   M a r k   M o y a r
-- 2013-03-11T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/how-misguided-u-s-aid-contributed-to-mali-s-coup-mark-moyar.html
In driving al-Qaeda and other
extremists from  Mali ’s towns, the French military has restored a
semblance of order. But the underlying problems that led to the
country’s meltdown persist, leaving its government and its
allies in peril.  Most of the extremists are at large, waiting in the shadows
for the  departure  of the French, who have delegated long-term
security to African forces. The  Economic Community of West
African States  has pledged 8,000 troops, not nearly enough to
secure an area the size of  Texas . That means safeguarding far-
flung provinces will be left largely to Mali’s own government.
Today, as a year ago, incompetence plagues the security forces,
corruption the civil administration.  U.S. efforts to help the Malians secure their national
territory failed spectacularly the first time. Until March 2012,
when a cataclysmic  military coup  caused the State Department to
suspend all assistance, the U.S. concentrated its aid on Mali’s
economic and social development, on the theory that extremism
could best be defeated by alleviating poverty. In 2011, the U.S.
spent $221 million on irrigation, transportation, education,
health and other development initiatives. It spent less than $4
million for security programs. Much of that sum, moreover, went
to development projects that purported to curb extremism.  ‘Modest’ Aid  The 2011 aid budget for Mali included just $350,000 for
training and educating military officers at U.S. institutions.
It gave the shoddily equipped Malian army only $200,000 to
acquire U.S. military hardware. Amanda Dory, the deputy
assistant secretary of defense for African affairs, conceded
recently that the “relatively modest quantities” of U.S.
military aid to Mali weren’t “commensurate with the threat.”  While the Defense Department has recognized the problem,
comparable statements haven’t emerged from the State Department,
which holds most of the aid purse strings. Some State officials
concur with development experts who think impoverishment of
developing-world security forces is good policy. In their
opinion, these militaries do little with their power but violate
human rights and overthrow civilian governments.  Yet the poverty of the Malian military didn’t prevent a
military coup. It did prevent effective resistance to the
extremist onslaught. Years of large U.S. expenditures on Mali’s
development, meanwhile, did little to undermine the appeal of
extremism. Malian rebels gained strength in late 2011 and early
2012, enabling them to mount the offensive that sparked the
coup.  Had security assistance been robust, the U.S. military
might have inculcated in Mali’s officer corps principles of
professionalism, such as discipline and respect for civilian
authority, that would have averted the coup. The U.S. has done
this with the armed forces of  Botswana ,  Colombia ,  Senegal ,  South
Korea  and  Tunisia , among others.  The coup arose from a confrontation between disgruntled
soldiers and the defense minister at which rocks were thrown and
warning shots were fired. The senior officers could have defused
the situation by reining in junior officers and reprimanding
those who were insubordinate, as leaders steeped in U.S.
military professionalism would have done. Instead, the generals
and colonels fled, permitting the rabble-rousing Captain Amadou
Haya Sanogo to lead unruly soldiers in capturing the
presidential palace.  Sanogo wouldn’t have even been present that day had Mali’s
military absorbed the meritocracy preached by the U.S. military.
During his training, Sanogo had flunked several exams, yet he
was allowed to continue on the officer track. When his father
saw him on national television during the coup,  he exclaimed  to
his wife, “Come see what your imbecile son is doing!” The
military compounded its error of making Sanogo an officer by
sending him to the U.S. for training, squandering a valuable
slot that should have been reserved for one of the brightest
officers.  Improving Governance  The coup might also have been avoided had the U.S. invested
more than a paltry $114,000 a year in improving governance in
Mali. The corruption and inefficiency of President Amadou Toumani Toure’s administration generated widespread disgust with
the government and disillusionment with democracy, culminating
in the military’s takeover. The coup’s numerous supporters
blamed the government for resource shortfalls that led to
military defeats, such as a January 2012 attack in which rebels
slaughtered almost 100 soldiers and their dependents after the
defenders ran out of ammunition.  The U.S. miserliness on this front accorded with the
theory,  popularized  by Columbia University economist  Jeffrey Sachs , that bad governance isn’t a leading cause of national
poverty. Sachs and like-minded U.S. officials instead blame
geographic and environmental disadvantages and think aid should
be concentrated on mitigating them.  The U.S. government  will probably resume aid  to Mali after
national elections scheduled for July. The new aid package ought
to include large sums for security and governance, with emphasis
on training and education to develop professional military
officers, police chiefs and civil servants. In the meantime,
large numbers of foreign advisers are required. Only such a
reapportionment of assistance can prevent al-Qaeda from using
Mali as a staging ground for further attacks on Americans in
Libya or Algeria, or in the U.S.  (Mark Moyar, an independent national security consultant
and author, is writing a book on U.S. foreign assistance. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Moyar at  info@markmoyar.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Lisa Beyer  at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 