-- Parker to Leave After 40 Years as Boston University Hockey Coach
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-11T20:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/parker-to-leave-after-40-years-as-boston-university-hockey-coach.html
Jack Parker is retiring after 40
years as men’s hockey coach at  Boston University , his final
season marred by a school study that found what it called a
culture of “sexual entitlement” surrounding the team.  Parker has won 894 games at  Boston , third most in college
hockey history, and led the Terriers to the National Collegiate
Athletic Association tournament a record 24 times. He won
national championships in 1978, 1995 and 2009.  Since 1976, 23 of Parker’s players have competed in the
Winter Olympics, including Mike Eruzione and Jim Craig, part of
the 1980 U.S. team that beat the  Soviet Union  in the “Miracle
on Ice” game and went on to win the gold medal. Parker received
the NCAA Coach of the Year Award three times, most recently
after the 2008-09 season.  Parker, who turned 68 today, said in a news conference that
he will step down at the end of the season. He will remain with
the university in a fundraising capacity and a successor hasn’t
been chosen, he said.  “I’ve got two daughters and 226 sons,” Parker said. “The
team now are my youngest son. I’m not having any more
children.”  The university began a review of the hockey program last
year after two members of the Terriers were charged with sexual
assault in incidents three months apart during the 2011-12
season, President Robert A. Brown said on the school’s website.
The report, released in August, concluded that the team’s
elevated social status on campus led to a “culture of sexual
entitlement.”  Parker Criticized  In the aftermath of the report, which found no NCAA
violations, Parker stepped down as executive director of
athletics to focus on coaching. Though not directly implicated
in the report, Parker was criticized by students, faculty and
several players for lax disciplinary standards, according to the
 Boston Globe .  Parker said today that the Terriers were implementing
changes recommended in the report.  “Our program is better off for it,” he said.  The Terriers were 18-15-2 during the regular season this
year. They face Merrimack College in the best-of-three
quarterfinals in the Hockey East tournament on March 15-17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  