-- Parliament Repeats Demand That Osborne Toughens Bank Bill
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-11T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/parliament-repeats-demand-that-osborne-toughens-bank-bill.html
The parliamentary commission
scrutinizing a bill designed to make Britain’s banks safer
demanded for a second time that Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  toughen the legislation.  Osborne should threaten to break up the entire banking
industry if it doesn’t comply with rules to protect retail
operations, the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards
said in today’s report in London. The cross-party panel demanded
19 changes to the bill, including one that regulators get
immediate powers to set higher leverage ratios.  The report is the second attempt to toughen the proposed
laws after Osborne rejected previous recommendations. It sets up
the government for criticism during a second reading of the bill
in Parliament later today.  “The government’s arguments are insubstantial,” said
 Andrew Tyrie , a lawmaker from Osborne’s Conservative Party who
also chairs the commission. “There remains much more work to be
done to improve the bill.”  Osborne last month made a partial concession to the panel’s
demands for a reserve power to break up the banking industry
along retail and investment banking lines if it fails to adhere
to laws aimed at protecting taxpayers from future bailouts. He
said individual banks, rather than the industry, could be broken
up under that scenario after earlier voicing opposition in
November during a clash with members of the 10-member committee.  Osborne himself appointed the panel last year to look at
conduct in the financial-services industry following the Libor
scandal and subsequently asked to lead the pre-legislative
scrutiny of the banking bill.  Properly Implemented  Successive witnesses at the panel’s hearings have expressed
concern that the government’s proposals will be diluted by the
banks before they are properly implemented.  Witnesses including former  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Taylor  last year said regulators should be given
the extra powers and former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , who designed the U.S. approach, said ring-fencing is
too difficult to maintain because financial institutions will
seek to unwind the separation over time.  Tyrie today said he wants a higher  leverage ratio  than 3
percent set for banks, and called on Osborne to think again
about establishing in law the need for periodic independent
assessment on the success of the ring-fencing rules.  The commission also called for more time to properly
consider the legislation after Osborne last month said he
expects it to become law within a year.  “It is highly regrettable that the government appears to
be compressing the timetable and railroading the bill,” Tyrie
said.  The job of overseeing the new regime will fall to the  Bank
of England , which is set to gain new powers for supervising
banks under  Mark Carney   who is due to take over from  Mervyn King  at the helm of the U.K. central bank on July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  