-- Zhou Named to Advisory Post Amid PBOC Tenure Speculation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-11T10:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/pboc-governor-zhou-to-be-vice-chairman-of-china-advisory-body.html
People’s Bank of  China  Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  was named a vice chairman of the nation’s top
government advisory body amid speculation his record tenure as
central bank chief will be extended.  Zhou was among 23 people elected to the position on the
Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, according to
results announced at a meeting in Beijing today. Yu Zhengsheng,
a member of the Communist Party’s paramount Politburo Standing
Committee, was named chairman.  The party plans to keep Zhou, 65, as head of the central
bank, with the CPPCC vice chairman position allowing him to
serve beyond retirement age, a person with direct knowledge of
the discussions told Bloomberg News last month. The national
legislature, which is also holding its annual meeting, will
decide March 16 on positions including PBOC governor.  “There is some value in maintaining continuity at the top
of the People’s Bank by having someone that is well-respected
and experienced,” said Mark Williams, a former U.K. Treasury
adviser on China who is now an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London .  Retaining Zhou would provide stability at a time when the
central bank is grappling with sustaining an economic recovery
while reining in  inflation  and credit. Zhou was omitted from the
Communist Party’s new 205-member Central Committee in November,
fueling speculation that he would step down as he approached
retirement age. A Feb. 2 profile in the official China
Securities Journal said Zhou, who took office in 2002, would
retire this month.  Zhou Recognition  Zhou’s election as a CPPCC vice chairman is a “recognition
of his many years of work,”  Li Daokui , a former academic
adviser to the central bank, told reporters in Beijing today.
The new role “shouldn’t have any negative impact” on Zhou’s
job at the PBOC, Li said.  Williams said he hoped Zhou would continue to push forward
liberalization of  interest-rate  policy and tackle risks in
shadow banking while maintaining growth in China.  Other CPPCC vice chairmen include Chen  Yuan , chairman of
China Development Bank; Lu Zhangong, Communist Party secretary
of Henan province, and Edmund Ho, former Macau chief executive.  The CPPCC advises the National People’s Congress, the
country’s legislature, and has committees that handle issues
including economic affairs, population, and ethnic and religious
affairs.  Zhou was named last month as one of the 2,237 members of
the CPPCC’s National Committee. Other members include Mo Yan,
winner of the 2012 Nobel Prize in Literature, and retired
Houston Rockets basketball player Yao Ming.  --Zheng Lifei, Zhou Xin. With assistance from Zhang Dingmin in
Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nicholas Wadhams  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  