-- Pennsylvania Sued Over Treatment of Mentally Ill Convicts
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-03-11T20:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/pennsylvania-sued-over-treatment-of-mentally-ill-convicts.html
Pennsylvania  houses mentally ill
prisoners in “horrific conditions” of solitary confinement,
violating their constitutional rights, an advocacy group alleged
in a lawsuit.  Inmates diagnosed with serious mental illness are confined
in so-called restricted housing units that exacerbate their
illness, according to a  complaint posted  on the website of the
Disability Rights Network of Pennsylvania. The filing couldn’t
immediately be independently verified in records in federal
court in Harrisburg.  Prisoners in the units are locked in small cells for at
least 23 hours a day on weekdays and 24 hours a day on weekends,
according to the complaint, which described the situation as “a
Dickensian nightmare” that violates the constitutional
prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment.  “This is a vile and inhumane way to treat people with
mental illness,”  Robert W. Meek , an attorney for the Disability
Rights Network, said in an e-mailed statement. “As one judge
put it, solitary confinement for a person with mental illness is
like an airless room for an asthmatic.”  The state hasn’t yet seen the complaint, and it would be
premature to comment, a Corrections Department spokeswoman,
Susan McNaughton said in an e-mail.  Roughly 51,000 prisoners are housed in the state’s
26 correctional facilities, according to the department’s
website. Mentally ill prisoners are 22 percent of the total
population and about 33 percent of those in restricted housing,
according to the complaint.  Court Order  The suit was filed against John Wetzel in his capacity as
secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Corrections. The
Disability Rights Network asked for a court order barring the
housing of mentally ill prisoners in the restricted units and
for unspecified damages.  Officials of the advocacy group toured at least a dozen
prisons and requested medical, mental health and disciplinary
records for about 200 inmates, according to the complaint.  “Unlike correctional systems and officials in many other
states, the Pennsylvania DOC does not adequately consider these
prisoners’ mental illness before forcing them into RHUs,” the
group said in the complaint.  Inmates in restricted housing are kept in cells as small as
80 square feet. Steel cell doors have slots allowing for food
and communication with guards and mental health staff, according
to the complaint.  Weekly Exercise  Prisoners in the units are allowed one hour a day of
exercise during the week in small outdoor cages. Most mentally
ill prisoners don’t take advantage of the opportunity because of
their symptoms, according to the complaint.  Prisoners are denied adequate mental health care with staff
conducting “drive by” visits lasting a few seconds, the
nonprofit group said. The visits consist of a series of
questions through the slot in the cell door, according to the
complaint. Prisoners in restricted units are prohibited from
working prison jobs or participating in educational or
rehabilitative programs and religious services.  The U.S.  Justice Department  began an investigation in
December 2011 into allegations that prisoners with mental
illness at one state facility in Cresson, Pennsylvania, are
subjected to excessive periods of isolation, according to the
complaint.  In May 2011, a Cresson inmate hanged himself after two
months in a restricted cell, DRN said in the complaint. The
inmate, incarcerated since 2004, was diagnosed with delusional
disorder and received numerous disciplinary sanctions for acting
out in response to his paranoia, according to the complaint.  The case is Disability Rights Network of Pennsylvania v.
Wetzel, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 