-- Philippine Peso Bonds Rise as Further SDA Cut Seen This Week
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-03-11T09:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/philippine-peso-bonds-rise-as-further-sda-cut-seen-this-week.html
Philippine bonds due 2019 rose,
pushing the yield to a record low, on speculation the central
bank will cut the interest rate on its special-deposit accounts
this week to curb gains in the peso.  The yield on the notes has fallen 106 basis points since
Jan. 24, the day the central bank cut the rate it pays on $46
billion of its  SDAs  to 3 percent from more than 3.5 percent.
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas cannot rule out a further reduction,
Governor Amando Tetangco said in a March 4 e-mail. Inflation
remains manageable, he said the next day as a report showed
consumer prices rose 3.4 percent in February from a year earlier.  “The central bank has room to further cut the SDA rate
given favorable inflation,” said Jonathan Ravelas, the Manila-
based chief market strategist at BDO Unibank Inc., the nation’s
largest lender. He predicts a 50-basis-point cut in the rate at
the March 14 policy meeting.  The yield on the 3.875 percent bonds due November 2019 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.83 percent,
the lowest since the notes were sold in November, as of 4:53 p.m.
in Manila, according to Tradition Financial Services.  The monetary authority is “prepared to tweak existing
measures or introduce new ones as may be appropriate,” Tetangco
told reporters on March 8.  The peso closed little changed at 40.68 per dollar,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price
options, rose 16 basis points, to 3.93 percent.  Rate Corridor  The peso is the best-performing Asian and emerging-market
currency in the past 12 months. Bangko Sentral will keep its
benchmark overnight borrowing rate at a record low 3.5 percent
on March 14, according to all 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “The change in SDA pricing could be viewed as an initial
step towards transitioning” to an interest-rate corridor
approach, Tetangco said in his March 4 e-mail, referring to a
policy band that will give BSP greater flexibility.  The Philippines has accumulated “quite large reserves” of
dollars, as a result of intervention to slow peso gains and curb
volatility, the International Monetary Fund’s resident
representative Shanaka Peiris said at a forum today in Manila.
Without BSP’s intervention, the peso would have “exhibited more
volatility,” Peiris said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  