-- Philippines Faces Perfect Wave of Liquidity, Credit Suisse Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-03-11T06:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/philippines-faces-perfect-wave-of-liquidity-credit-suisse-says.html
Philippine stocks  may enter a bull-
market rally not seen for two decades, lifted by a “perfect
wave of liquidity,” Credit Suisse Group AG said.  “Momentum players will ride the wave of ever-stretched
valuations,” Stephen Hagger, a Kuala Lumpur-based analyst at
Credit Suisse, wrote in a report dated today. He recommends
buying shares with larger market values, such as banks and
property developers, as well as physical real estate.  The gauge rose 0.4 percent to a record 6,858.59 at 1:44
p.m. local time. The measure has surged 18 percent this year
amid expectations economic growth will accelerate and the
country will win an investment-grade sovereign rating. The index
 trades  for 21.2 times reported earnings, the highest since 2004,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso has
strengthened about 7 percent against the dollar in the past two
years, the best performer among emerging-market currencies.  The central bank will likely reduce  interest rates  to stem
futher gains in the currency, according to Hagger. Reduced
returns from bank deposits and  government bonds  will force
savers to buy property, given rental yields of 7.3 percent in
central  Manila  and concerns stocks have risen too far, he wrote.  “Huge wealth will be generated,” Hagger wrote. “Some of
this wealth will get ploughed back into the  property market .
Some will end up as conspicuous consumption and therefore
trickle down into the real economy, enhancing GDP, increasing
earnings and justifying increasing stock market valuations. Some
will simply end up in the stock market.”  Bull Market  The Philippine  stock index  has climbed 303 percent since
October 2008, making it the world’s biggest equity  bull market .
That’s at least 134 percentage points more than every other bull
market in emerging and developed nations, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The central has “instituted formal mechanisms”
to avoid asset-price inflation from forming, especially in
property, Deputy Governor Nestor Espenilla said March 8.  The nation’s credit rating, at speculative grade, will
probably be upgraded in the first half, central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said in a Bloomberg Television interview on Jan.
25.  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook to positive from stable
on Dec. 20, citing the stability of Philippine President  Benigno
Aquino ’s administration and economic growth.  A 33 percent surge by the benchmark index last year drove
the stock market’s value to $223 billion on Dec. 31, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s still less than the current
market capitalization of Nestle SA or Chevron Corp.  “The biggest turnoff to foreign investors has been
liquidity,” Hagger said. “As liquidity continues to improve,
it will become a difficult market to ignore, particularly when
the market reaches investment grade.”  The stock index may reach valuations last seen in 1997 just
before the Asian financial crisis broke, the analyst said.  “Like all waves, it will eventually hit the reef, but the
ride could be a good one,” Hagger said. “Grab your board.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  