-- Pimco-Led Peso Bulls Cheer One-and-Done Rate Cut: Mexico Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-03-11T14:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/pimco-led-peso-bulls-cheer-one-and-done-rate-cut-mexico-credit.html
Foreign investors banking on
currency gains to amplify their Mexican debt returns can breathe
easier after the central bank signaled its first interest-rate
cut since 2009 would be a one-time reduction.  The peso jumped 1 percent in the biggest advance since Jan.
2 after the bank lowered its benchmark  rate  by a half-percentage
point to 4 percent. The currency’s gain boosted returns on
Mexico’s peso-denominated government bonds to 6.6 percent this
year in dollar terms, six times the average in  emerging markets ,
according to Bank of America Corp.  Policy makers led by central bank Governor Agustin Carstens
said the rate cut “doesn’t represent the start of a cycle,”
bolstering confidence the bank will keep rates on hold for now
and reducing the likelihood looser monetary policy will erode
the allure of local-currency debt for foreigners. Mexico’s bond
market attracted a record $8.78 billion last year from overseas
investors tracked by EPFR Global as they sought to profit from
steady interest rates and growth that outpaced Brazil’s for a
second year.  “It’s not the beginning of an easing cycle,” Claudio Irigoyen, the head of Latin America fixed-income and foreign-
exchange strategy at Bank of America, said in a telephone
interview from New York. “You had a rally in the currency
because people said, ‘OK, this is a one-off and therefore the
cut story is out of the way.’”  Yields Fall  Bill Gross , Pacific Investment Management Co.’s co-chief
investment officer, said last month the peso was a “great
currency” while praising the nation’s low debt level and
interest-rate stability. Pimco is the biggest owner of peso
bonds due in 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2024, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  E-mail and voice messages left today with Pimco’s press
office weren’t immediately returned.  Yields on bonds due in December fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to a record 4.11 percent on March 8,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peso’s 1 percent
rally pushed it to 12.6279 per dollar, its strongest close since
Feb. 1.  Mexico trimmed rates for the first time in more than three
years after signaling in January that slowing  inflation  made
loosening monetary policy “advisable.” While 21 of 22 analysts
in a survey released last week by Citigroup Inc.’s local Banamex
unit expected a rate reduction this year, the median estimate
was for a 0.5 percentage point cut in April.  First Cut  Carstens’s first rate cut was forecast by seven of 25
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The rest predicted the rate
would stay on hold. Latin America’s second-largest economy was
the only nation in the Group of 20 to leave borrowing costs
unchanged and refrain from buying bonds to ease monetary
conditions since July 2009.  Cost-of-living increases have been below the 4 percent
ceiling of the central bank’s target range for three straight
months, with the rate at 3.55 percent in the year through
February. In its policy statement, the bank said the cut
shouldn’t prevent inflation from slowing to the bank’s target of
3 percent. Its target range is one percentage point below and
above the central target.  Alberto Bernal, the head of fixed-income research at
Bulltick Capital Markets in Miami, says the rate cut hasn’t
shaken his bullish outlook on Mexican peso debt and predicts
that the currency will appreciate further.  ‘Inflation Jolts’  “What I’m recommending to my clients, is to go aggressive
into the long end of the curve,” he said by telephone.  Yields on  Mexico ’s benchmark bonds maturing 2024 increased
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.01 percent on
March 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on the
country’s longest-dated peso bond, those maturing in 2042,
surged nine basis points to 6.02 percent.  Enrique Alvarez, the head of Latin America fixed-income
research at IdeaGlobal in New York, says investors in longer-
maturity bonds may have sold their debt on March 8 on concern
that lower borrowing costs will accelerate inflation and erode
returns.  “By lowering rates you’re exposing higher inflation jolts
further ahead,” he said in a telephone interview. The rate cut
also means “you have less elements that are going to support a
stronger peso.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged today at 169
basis points at 8:10 a.m. in Mexico City, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index.  Mexico’s peso increased 0.5 percent to 12.5682 per dollar.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps dropped one basis point to
93 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on interbank rate futures due in December, known as
TIIE, fell two basis points to 4.45 percent on March 8.  Bernd Berg, a currency strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG
in Zurich, said lower borrowing costs will help boost domestic
growth and ultimately support the peso’s appreciation.  “Mexico’s growth rates will outperform other regional
players like  Brazil ,” Berg said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Strong U.S. data in combination with domestic
growth boosted by the rate cut are supportive for peso
appreciation as capital flows will continue to flow in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  