-- Polish Central Bank Sees 2014 Growth Recovery on Low Rate
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-03-11T11:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/polish-central-bank-sees-2014-growth-recovery-on-low-rate.html
The Polish central bank raised its
2014  growth  outlook on expectations record-low interest rates
will help the economy recover from its worst slump in 12 years.  The Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski increased its
forecast for gross domestic product next year to 2.6 percent
from 2.3 percent seen in November, according to its March  staff
projection  released today. The economy will expand 1.3 percent
this year, the worst performance since 2001, according to the e-
mailed document.  Policy makers cut the  main interest rate  by 50 basis
points, more than economists forecast, last week as  consumer
spending  plunged and the euro-area recession curbed exports. The
central bank will pause now after five reductions since November
took  Poland ’s benchmark to 3.25 percent, Governor  Marek Belka 
said March 6.  “We are going to see some impact from the rate cuts toward
the end of this year,” Jacek Kotlowski, director at the central
bank’s Economic Institute, said at a news conference in Warsaw.
“We should see a recovery more clearly in 2014.”  The central bank’s 10 policy makers received the projection
before last week’s rate reduction. Their previous four quarter-
point cuts will add 0.4 percentage points to economic growth,
according to Kotlowski. It takes four to six quarters for the
impact of reductions to filter through to the economy, he said.  ‘Acceptable’ Rates  The current level of borrowing costs is “acceptable” and
the central bank is “almost” at the end of cuts, policy maker
Elzbieta Chojna-Duch told PAP newswire in an interview today.
The economic growth rate will remain “relatively low” in the
next two years, she was quoted as saying.  Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski today renewed calls for
more monetary stimulus, saying he hoped the central bank will
continue reductions after a “short break, perhaps a month.”
Poland has  Europe ’s third-highest real interest rates, he told
Tok FM radio in an interview.  The projection expects a “sustained”  inflation  slowdown
through 2015. The  consumer price index  will fall to 1.6 percent
this year and next and to 1.5 percent in 2015. Policy makers aim
for 2.5 percent price growth in the medium term, with a
tolerance of 1 percentage point above and below the target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  