-- Premier Oil’s Singapore Gas Price Buoyed by Import Limits
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-03-11T15:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/premier-oil-s-singapore-gas-price-buoyed-by-import-limits.html
Premier Oil Plc (PMO) , the U.K. explorer
that supplies natural gas by pipeline to  Singapore , expects
limited import capacity in the city state to hold back price
competition until later this decade.  Premier ships gas from fields off Indonesia though the West
Natuna  Transportation  System. It gets about $18 per million
British thermal units, three times more than in Indonesia, Chief
Executive Officer Simon Lockett said in an interview. The price
for the fuel reached $23 last year, he said.  Singapore will need more liquefied natural gas facilities
as soon as 2017, according to Premier’s Chief Financial Officer
Tony Durrant. With “more import facilities they will have a
choice of supply and then we might see price competition.”  Singapore is developing LNG terminals with the first cargo
expected later this year after  BG Group Plc (BG/)  in 2008 agreed on
supplies.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , the largest LNG supplier, in
December announced plans to move its gas business to Singapore,
which is poised to become a maritime gas-trading hub in two to
three years, according to the International Energy Agency.  “When we get to 2018 plus and there is excess demand from
Singapore, then there will be our pipeline gas, there will be
BG’s LNG and may be other people adding into that,” Durrant
said. A shortage of land in Singapore restricts expansion on LNG
and “they’ll start taking new volumes from us.”  Premier has been exploring the Indonesian fields to find
more gas resources to meet growing regional demand, Lockett
said. Together with partners it drilled deeper in the Anoa
deposit on Natuna Sea Block A.  “ Indonesia  is also desperately short of gas and we will be
trying to fulfil some of the local Indonesian needs first,”
Lockett said. Pipeline gas supply “is going to be very
competitive” with LNG deliveries in Singapore because of the
higher regional demand for the fuel.  Premier’s Indonesian fields supply about 27 percent of gas
consumed in Singapore, or 7 percent net to the U.K. company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  