-- PSG May Bid for Tottenham Winger Gareth Bale: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-11T08:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/psg-may-bid-for-tottenham-winger-gareth-bale-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  PSG Prospect  French league leader Paris Saint-Germain may join Real
Madrid in trying to sign Tottenham winger Gareth Bale, the  Sun
reported , citing former Spurs director of football Damien Comolli.  “If PSG know the player is on the market, and there is a
possibility, it wouldn’t surprise me if they did everything in
their power to get him,” the Sun cited Comolli as saying.  Herr Rooney  Franz Beckenbauer, Bayern Munich’s honorary president, said
the German team would be keen to sign Manchester United striker
Wayne Rooney, the  Sun reported .  “I would be very happy for Wayne Rooney to come to
Bayern,” the newspaper cited Beckenbauer as saying.  Pep Guardiola, who takes over at Bayern next season, is
said to admire Rooney and Bayern is one of the few teams in
 Europe  who could afford his wages of 230,000 pounds ($343,482) a
week should he decide to leave United, the Sun added.  Wayne Stays  United director Bobby Charlton said Rooney will be at the
club next season, the  Daily Mail reported .  “Wayne Rooney has maybe had an injury and he might not
perform as well as he might have done but that’s not to say you
get rid of him,” the Mail cited Charlton as saying. “Why would
we get rid of a great player?”  Murphy’s Switch  Danny Murphy is in talks to cancel his playing contract
with Blackburn Rovers and take a coaching role with former club
Fulham, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Murphy, a 35-year-old midfielder, has been stripped of the
captaincy at Blackburn and left out of the first-team training
group ahead of his potential return to  London , the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  