-- Putin Aide Said to Be First Woman on Central Bank Shortlist
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-03-11T15:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/putin-aide-said-to-be-first-woman-on-central-bank-shortlist.html
Elvira Nabiullina, a Kremlin aide
and former economy minister, is being considered by President
Vladimir Putin to replace Russian central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Nabiullina, 49, joins a shortlist, the people said, asking
not to be identified because the names haven’t been made public.
The candidates include Ignatiev’s first deputy Alexei Ulyukayev
and former finance ministers Alexei Kudrin and Mikhail Zadornov,
three people with knowledge of the talks said in January.  Putin by law must name a candidate to replace Ignatiev, 65,
three months before the central bank head’s third and final term
ends June 24. Putin said his pick will be “unexpected” and
“you’ll like it,” when speaking with reporters March 7, on the
eve of  Russia ’s International Women’s Day holiday.  Bank Rossii will have to balance attempts to hold inflation
to a range of 5 percent to 6 percent and government calls to
stimulate lending. Consumer prices surged 7.3 percent in
February from a year earlier, the most in 18 months, keeping the
regulator from cutting interest rates, even as economic growth
stumbles.  Expanded Powers  The new chairman will also oversee an expansion of the
regulator’s powers as it absorbs the Federal Financial Markets
Service, which now reports to the prime minister.  A majority in the State Duma, the lower house of
parliament, is needed to approve the nomination. Putin’s
spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, didn’t answer his mobile phone
immediately when Bloomberg called seeking comment.  Putin may consider a “dark horse” candidate from outside
the central bank to serve as an arbiter of bureaucratic disputes
during the merger, Artem Arkhipov, chief economist for Russia at
ZAO UniCredit Bank, said today. A candidate more focused on
economic growth may also have merit, he said.  Before Putin’s comments last week, Ulyukayev was the
favored pick, according to nine of 15 economists polled by
Bloomberg, followed by Kudrin, who received three votes.  The Izvestia newspaper, which reported Nabiullina’s
candidacy earlier today, said VTB Group Chief Executive Officer
Andrey Kostin, VEB CEO Vladimir Dmitriev and MDM Bank Chairman
Oleg Vyugin, a former head of Russia’s finanical markets
watchdog, have also been considered to replace Ignatiev.  ‘Sharp’ Deceleration  Nabiullina graduated with an economics degree from Moscow
State University in 1986 and worked in government and private
business before being appointed Economy Minister in September
2007. She held the post until May 2012 when Putin returned to
the Kremlin for a third presidential term and made her an
economic aide.  “Economic growth has sharply decelerated, so new
initiatives, approaches, instruments and people are needed,”
Arkhipov said in an interview in Moscow.  Growth slowed to 1.6 percent from a year earlier in January
as industrial production contracted for the first time in more
than three years. Economists are cutting their forecasts for
Russia this year as  Europe ’s recession saps demand for commodity
exports and inflation hurts household spending.  Bank Rossii’s board meets to discuss interest rates on
March 15. Policy makers will keep rates on hold this week and
probably “repeat last month’s comment that it hopes a lowering
of inflation will allow it to cut rates in the coming months,”
according to a note today from Sberbank Investment Research
analysts including  Chris Weafer , the chief strategist.  “Of greater interest to the market is who will be the next
central bank chairman and what the appointment may signal about
the continuing policy independence of the bank,” they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  