-- Rand Extends Slide as Coal Strike Fuels Current-Account Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-03-11T16:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/rand-extends-slide-as-coal-strike-fuels-current-account-concern.html
The rand declined, extending the
worst slide this year among major emerging-market currencies, on
concern labor disputes at South African mines will cut exports,
fueling a current-account deficit near the widest in four years.  The rand slipped as much as 0.9 percent and traded 0.4
percent weaker at 9.1282 per dollar as of 5:10 p.m. in
Johannesburg. It has declined 7.2 percent this year, the most
out of more than 20 major emerging-market currencies monitored
by Bloomberg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due
December 2026 advanced one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 7.38 percent.  South Africa ’s current-account deficit probably contracted
to 6.3 percent of gross domestic product in the fourth quarter,
from 6.4 percent in the previous three months, a report tomorrow
will show, according to the  median estimate  of 10 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. Strikes at three of  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) ’s
South African coal mines that started last week have spread to
two more operations, according to the  National Union of
Mineworkers .  “The market remains highly sensitive” to news about labor
disputes at South African mines including Exxaro,  John Cairns , a
currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said
in e-mailed comments. “The focus on the local front this week
will be more on the underlying structural problem: the large
current-account deficit.”  Mining production, which accounts for 53 percent of the
nation’s exports, probably fell 4.2 percent in the year through
January, a separate report may show on March 14. South Africa
posted a record monthly trade deficit in January.  The rand’s decline today pared gains made on March 8 after
Reserve Bank Governor Gill Marcus said the currency’s slump
beyond 9 per dollar was overdone. The rand would, over time,
“retrace back to a more reasonable level”, she said in an
interview with Bloomberg TV.  “Simple verbal intervention is unlikely to support an
extended recovery,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based
analyst at ETM Analytics, said in e-mailed comments today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  