-- Raytheon Tests Weapons Link to Advance European Missile Shield
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-11T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/raytheon-tests-weapons-link-to-advance-european-missile-shield.html
Raytheon Co. (RTN)  said it successfully
tested an upgrade to its SM-3 ballistic missile interceptor to
help pave the way for European navies to protect the region
against long-range weapons from countries such as  Iran .  The trial last week showed that a radar used by Dutch,
German and Danish navies could provide target information to the
interceptor, George Mavko, director of European missile defense
at Raytheon, the world’s largest missile maker, said in an
interview. “This is a first step to bring those ships into
compatibility with the missile defense mission,” he said.  The U.S., as part of a wider effort to field a missile
shield, is installing SM-3 interceptors on ships and has plans
for land-based deployment of the weapon in  Romania  to give the
capability to shoot down long-range missiles outside the
atmosphere. The Netherlands is among European countries
exploring how to join the U.S. in addressing such attacks.  “This is very prudent move by the Dutch,” Mike Elleman
senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic
Studies in Bahrain, said in an interview. Sanctions have slowed
Iran’s progress, which means a missile capable of threatening
Paris or  London  is unlikely to be ready before 2016, he said.  The Dutch frigates the country would use for the protective
role are equipped with a  Thales SA (HO)  radar system that is
incompatible with the current SM-3 interceptor. The
demonstration at the Den Helder military test range validated a
datalink that allows the missile to receive information from the
Thales sensor while retaining the ability to communicate with
Aegis combat ships used by the U.S. Navy, Mavko said.  European Production  The trials were partly funded by the Dutch navy, he said,
and are a precursor to detailed work to integrate the SM-3 on
frigates. The Dutch government hasn’t committed to upgrading its
ships, Mavko said, although planning continues to modify vessels
due for a major retrofit starting in 2018.  The German F124 frigate and Danish ships have the same
sensors as the Dutch model and involving those countries in the
program would cut costs, he said. A common pool of missiles is
also under consideration to save money, Mavko said.  “Many European allies already contribute to NATO’s missile
defense system,” Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the alliance’s
secretary general, said at the Munich Security Conference last
month. “But I could see other possible contributions, for
instance European navies upgrading their ships with missile
defense radars and interceptors so they can deploy alongside
U.S. vessels.”  To help entice European governments, Waltham,
Massachusetts-based Raytheon is promising financial returns to
those countries. “We are beginning to have discussions with
some of our European industrial partners about possible co-
production of some components,” Mavko said. “The opportunities
for industry in  Europe  are significant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  