-- Raytheon, Lockheed to Get U.S. Secrets for Cybersecurity
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-03-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/raytheon-lockheed-to-get-u-s-secrets-for-cybersecurity.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Raytheon
Co. (RTN)  are vying with telecommunications companies to defend banks
and power grids from computer attacks, in a program that gives
them access to classified U.S. government data on cyber threats.  President  Barack Obama ’s Feb. 12 cybersecurity executive
order authorized the Department of Homeland Security to let new
companies get the government intelligence. Obama and U.S.
officials have said sharing classified threat data with
companies is essential to help prevent cyber-attacks that could
cause deaths or economic disruption.  So far, the two defense contractors have signed up for
DHS’s Enhanced Cybersecurity Services program, joining previous
participants  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL)   Under the program, the companies are provided -- free of
charge -- computer threat “signatures,” such as timestamps and
coding used in attacks, which have been obtained by the National
Security Agency and other agencies. The companies can use this
intelligence to strengthen cybersecurity services they sell to
businesses that maintain critical infrastructure.  “The demand is there. I think the priority is there, and
the threat is serious,” Steve Hawkins, vice president of
information and security solutions for Raytheon, said in an
interview.  Cybersecurity Market  Defense contractors like Raytheon view cybersecurity as a
growing business as Pentagon  spending  stalls or declines on more
traditional military programs, Hawkins said. Raytheon, of
Waltham,  Massachusetts , has acquired 12 companies specializing
in cybersecurity since 2007, he said. The acquisitions include
Greer, South Carolina-based Teligy Inc. in October, which
specializes in wireless cyber protection, and Herndon, Virginia-
based Trusted Computer Solutions Inc. in November 2010, which
specializes in network security.  “We work with literally every organization across the
government as well as many Fortune 500 companies,” Hawkins
said. Raytheon now wants to “make cybersecurity affordable to
medium- and small-sized businesses.”  The Homeland Security department determines which companies
qualify as “commercial service providers.” To be eligible,
companies must be able to safeguard classified information, have
employees with security clearances, and be positioned to provide
cybersecurity services to businesses, Darrell Durst, a vice
president of cyber solutions at Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed said in an e-mail.  Lockheed, the nation’s largest contractor, already provides
cybersecurity services to corporate and government clients and
will use the new program “to offer additional cyber services to
a broader set of customers,” Durst said.  ‘Business Opportunity’  Raytheon and Lockheed signed agreements with DHS within the
past two weeks to join the program. So far, CenturyLink and
Dallas-based AT&T, the biggest U.S. telephone carrier, are the
only other approved providers.  “While it is a business opportunity, we also see it as
vital to the continued economic vitality of the U.S.,” Diana
Gowen, a senior vice president for Monroe, Louisiana-based
CenturyLink, said in an e-mail.  The broader dissemination of cyber-threat data “in a
controlled fashion is a good thing” and can “help assure that
more companies have access to information for protecting their
systems,” said Jessica Herrera-Flanigan, a partner with
Monument Policy Group, a lobbying firm, and former Democratic
staff director of the House  Homeland Security  Committee.  Defense contractors have worked with the Pentagon for years
in using classified intelligence, and letting them “become
involved more broadly with processing cyber threat information
should aid in efforts to bolster the program,” Herrera-Flanigan
said in an e-mail.  Providers Multiply  The creation of a market based on classified U.S. cyber
threat data follows Congress’s failure in November to pass
legislation requiring companies operating critical
infrastructure to adopt cybersecurity standards.  Obama issued the executive order last month expanding DHS’s
cybersecurity services program to boost protections for vital
U.S. facilities, such as power grids, financial institutions and
air-traffic control networks. DHS decides which infrastructure
companies can contract with the cybersecurity providers, which
can then use the government’s intelligence to scan their
networks for the threat signatures and provide defenses.  There could eventually be dozens of commercial service
providers from a variety of industries, Bruce McConnell,
cybersecurity counselor at the Homeland Security Department,
said in an interview. “I think you will see other companies get
into this business,” he said.  Information Sharing  Companies can get cyber threat information directly from
DHS without using a commercial service provider if they have the
proper security controls, McConnell said.  The commercial service providers can voluntarily share
cybersecurity information with the government, according to
Homeland Security.  Any data exchanged between government and service providers
must be aggregated, anonymous and statistical, such as “the
timestamp of the cyber event, the indicator that was involved,
and the identification of the critical infrastructure sector of
which the affected company is a member,” according to DHS.  Company names of victims or other identifiable information
will not be shared, the department said.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  and other privacy groups
have raised concerns in the past about companies sharing
cybersecurity-related information with the government.  “A key question is how to balance the need for better,
more timely cybersecurity information with other needs such as
protection of privacy and civil rights as well as legitimate
business and economic interests,” the  Congressional Research
Service  wrote in  a March 1 report , which was obtained and
published by the Federation of American Sciences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  