-- Renren Slumps to Loss as China Slowdown Damps Online Ads
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-03-11T04:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/renren-slumps-to-loss-as-china-slowdown-damps-online-ads.html
Renren Inc. (RENN) , the Chinese social
network, posted a fourth-quarter loss as it boosted spending on
software development and advertising sales fell.  The net loss was $21.1 million in the three months ended
Dec. 31, compared with net income of $44.3 million a year
earlier, the New York-listed company said in a statement today.
Renren was expected to post a loss of $28.2 million, according
to the average of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales rose 49 percent to $48.8 million.  Renren boosted research and development spending by 84
percent in the quarter as it created new applications to compete
with  Tencent Holdings Ltd (700)  and  Sina Corp. (SINA)  and to tap users
shifting to portable devices from desktop computers. Slowing
growth in  China  damped advertising demand.  “Revenue couldn’t make up for costs on new services,”
Echo He, an analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York, said before
the earnings. “Renren needs to invest because it lacks new
growth points.”  The Beijing-based company forecast revenue of $44 million
to $46 million in the first quarter, representing growth of as
much as 43 percent from the year earlier. That compares with the
$47 million average of three analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Renren’s social network, with features similar to those of
Facebook Inc.’s site, had the third-highest number of unique
visitors in December with 101.7 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Sina’s Weibo was the most-
visited social-network site, followed by Tencent’s pengyou.com,
according to the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  