-- Rockefellers Want Cleaner Seas, Give Obama Low Green Mark
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-03-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/rockefellers-want-cleaner-seas-give-obama-low-green-mark.html
The topic of ocean conservation
comes up almost daily in the household of Susan and David Rockefeller Jr.  David spends much of his time raising awareness through his
nonprofit  Sailors for the Sea . Founded in 2004, it educates the
boating community about the need to protect the oceans.  Susan, a documentary filmmaker, is a board member of
 Oceana , an international organization that seeks to restore the
health of the world’s major bodies of water. Her film  “A Sea
Change”  created awareness about the dangers of acidification.  Their leisure life is linked to the oceans as well. David,
the son of philanthropist David Rockefeller Sr., is an avid
sailor, and Susan likes to swim and body surf. We talked
recently over lunch at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Cole: How do you each begin your day?  David: I begin the day looking at a new word, finding a
reason to be grateful and a poem. I’m addicted to newsprint and
I look at the New York Times. If it were a charity I would give
it money to keep it alive. Then I go to my office at 30
Rockefeller Plaza. We begin the day together, and we end it
together.  Susan: I start also with a  Gratefulness.org  quote. We like
to start the day with that because we are so busy and have so
many things that push and pull us. Then I wake up Henry, my son,
and make breakfast.  Cole: You traveled to  China  recently. What were your
impressions?  David: You have government change, the first time in 10
years. You have horrible air and amazing development. You have
the vibrancy and the perils, and the wealth and the poverty, and
the beauty and the distasteful things. It was really amazing to
see.  Wearing Masks  Susan: There is a young group that won’t put up with the
amount of toxicity in the environment. They’re finding out that
they can’t drink the water, and the  air quality  was just beyond
horrible. We wore masks.  Cole: It sounds as though saving the oceans and the seas
from ruin is Topic A in the Rockefeller household.  David: It certainly is for me.  Susan: We love the oceans, and we love to snorkel. We were
just in  Florida  and I went body surfing with my son. I love
being in the water. I spend a good deal of time working for
Oceana. In terms of philanthropic dollars, 98 percent of
conservation dollars go to terrestrial-based conservation and
less than 2 percent goes to oceans.  Cole: Would you ban or severely restrict fishing to protect
endangered species?  Renewable Resource  Susan: Fish are a renewable resource that can be
replenished if we enforce regulations. It’s just awful the
amount of by-catch that gets wasted. For every pound of shrimp
that’s caught, it can be 10 pounds of by-catch that’s wasted.
The more people who see this, the more who will be outraged and
want to see a change.  Cole: What grade would you give the Obama administration on
environmental issues?  David: I admire Obama greatly. I don’t think he’s made a
great mark as an environmentalist, but there’s a lot of
opportunity. If I were grading all of the presidents since  Jimmy Carter , I wouldn’t give good grades to any of our recent
presidents. If you notice, many recent presidencies suddenly
discover later on that the environment is something that the
president has power to impact in a positive or negative way.  Albert Einstein  Cole: David, you recorded a CD to be released on which you
read the letters of Albert Einstein. How did that come about?  David: I was a singer for a long time and I loved
performance and something happened to my singing voice that
didn’t happen to the speaking voice. I decided what I would do
is use my speaking force.  I contacted Audible.com, and they hired me, and the first
option was to read the last essays and speeches of  Albert
Einstein . He covers amazing subjects, everything from socialism
and one-world government to the persecution of the Jews. I
really, really enjoyed it.  (Patrick Cole is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine,  Lance Esplund 
on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pCole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  