-- S. African Pact With Congo May Boost $80 Billion Projct
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-03-11T11:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/s-african-pact-with-congo-may-boost-80-billion-projct.html
South Africa ’s agreement to buy
more than half the power from the first stage of a planned $80
billion hydropower project in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo
may be the catalyst for expansion of the power industry
throughout southern  Africa , a government official said.  South Africa on March 8 completed an agreement to buy 2,500
megawatts of power from the first phase of the Inga power
project, which is based on the Congo River, the world’s biggest
by volume after the Amazon. The pact is expected to enable Congo
to secure the initial $10 billion in financing required, Ompi
Aphane, a deputy director-general in South Africa’s Department
of Energy, said in an interview from Johannesburg.  In addition to the agreement with South Africa, mining
companies operating in the southern Congolese province of
Katanga are expected to buy 2,300 megawatts of power and a
transmission network is expected to be built throughout southern
Africa to supply a number of countries, including Angola and
 Namibia , with power and also enable them to trade their own
electricity.  “The spinoffs for regional integration and economic growth
are very great,” Aphane said on March 8. “Some energy projects
that weren’t feasible before will now be so.”  South Africa is trying to increase its electricity supply
to help growth in the continent’s largest economy, where power
outages in 2008 temporarily shut most of its mines and smelters.
The country was among suitors that included  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s biggest mining company, that tried and failed to
develop a new plant on the Congo River.  World’s Biggest  “One of the biggest realities we’re confronted with is
that we cannot continue being reliant on cheap coal,” said
Aphane, who helped negotiate the deal. “There are cheaper,
cleaner options that need to be opened up.”  The off-take agreement, which may be ratified this year
after going through South Africa’s parliament, will allow Congo
to secure the funding required for the first stage, which may
take as long as seven years to finish, Aphane said.  The plant will be built in seven phases and may ultimately
produce 39,800 megawatts, which would make it the world’s
biggest hydropower complex, Aphane said. It will be constructed
140 miles (225 kilometers) southwest of Congo’s capital,
Kinshasa, near the site of two partially functioning plants.  Congo’s Minister of Hydraulic Resources and Electricity
Bruno Kapanji declined to comment on the treaty before it’s made
public, he said by mobile phone text message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  