-- Safe Spots in Syria Dwindle as War Intensifies, UN Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-03-11T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/safe-spots-in-syria-dwindle-as-war-intensifies-un-says.html
Few civilian areas in  Syria  remain
untouched by the country’s two-year civil war and more than 2.5
million people have been displaced internally, according to the
United Nations Independent Commission of Inquiry on Syria.  “Over the past two months, there has been a dramatic
erosion of areas inside Syria where civilians are able to live
unaffected by the violence and destruction caused by the
conflict,” the panel told the  Human Rights Council  in Geneva
today, according to an advance copy of its presentation.  In its latest report, which covers Jan. 15 to March 3, the
commission said the collapse of Syria’s economy has crippled
citizens’ access to basic economic and social rights. The
conflict between troops loyal to President Bashar al-Assad and
anti-government rebels has led to shortages of fuel,
electricity, water and medicine that have been compounded by
international sanctions, according to the commission.  The panel is charged with investigating alleged violations
of international law and all massacres in Syria. More than
70,000 people have been killed since the conflict broke out in
March 2011 and UN High Commissioner for RefugeesAntonio Guterres said on March 6 that 1 million Syrians had fled to
Lebanon, Jordan,  Turkey  and other countries.  “The scope of the humanitarian crisis in Syria remains of
grave concern,” the commission said. “The education system in
many areas is in tatters. Prices for basic necessities have
increased exponentially. There has been significant damage to
the country’s infrastructure.”  Hospitals Targeted  Medical personnel and hospitals have been “deliberately
targeted” and are treated by both sides in the conflict as
military objectives, the commission said. “Medical access has
been denied on real or perceived political and sectarian
grounds,” it said.  “The urgent need for a political solution cannot be
overstated,” the commission said. “A failure to resolve this
increasingly violent conflict will condemn Syria, the region and
the millions of civilians caught in the crossfire to an
unimaginably bleak future.”  The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
estimates that at least four million people are in need of
assistance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  