-- Sasol Says Rand Swings Erode South Africa’s Competitiveness
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-03-11T15:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/sasol-s-profit-drops-13-on-iranian-polymer-unit-writedown.html
Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the world’s largest
producer of motor fuel from coal, said an unstable and
unpredictable exchange rate for the rand cuts  South Africa ’s
competitiveness.  The company gains 861 million rand ($94 million) in
operating profit for every 10 cents the rand weakens against the
dollar, Senior Executive for Global Chemicals Andre de Ruyter
said in an interview today in Johannesburg, where Sasol is
based. For every $1 increase in the price of a barrel of oil,
the company gains 621 million rand, he said. The rand is the
biggest external factor affecting the company’s profit, Chief
Financial Officer Christine Ramon said in a presentation.  Central bank Governor  Gill Marcus  on March 8 said the
rand’s decline beyond 9 to the dollar was overdone. The currency
reached 9.1884 per dollar, the weakest intraday level since
April 15, 2009, on March 7. The rand’s implied three-month
volatility against the dollar is 13.1 percent, the most among
the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “We are not in favor of a policy to let the rand
devalue,” De Ruyter said. “It erodes the long-term
competitiveness of the country. We are far more on the same page
as the Reserve Bank governor’s to say ‘let’s keep a stable
currency, a predictable currency’.”  Sasol’s profit declined to 13 percent to 12.1 billion rand
in the six months through December as it wrote down the value of
its Iranian polymers unit as it wrote down the value of its
Iranian polymers unit, it said in a statement today. Earnings
excluding one-time items rose 2.2 percent to 24.01 rand a share
compared with 23.49 rand a year earlier.  Sasol Writedowns  The company wrote down 428 million rand at an unsuccessful
oil well in  Mozambique , and recorded a 1 billion-rand foreign-
exchange loss, it said. The loss was primarily due to the
Iranian rial’s depreciation against the dollar, Sasol said.  “The operating profit in the current year was negatively
impacted by once-off charges totaling 3.6 billion rand,” the
company said. “These items relate primarily to the partial
impairments of our Arya Sasol Polymer Co. investment and the
Solvents Germany business of 1.97 billion rand and 198 million
rand, respectively.”  Sasol said Feb. 8 that it is in talks with interested
parties to sell its stake in Arya, which it co-owns with Pars
Petrochemical Co. of  Iran , a unit of National Petrochemical. The
U.S. and European Union are pressuring the country to curtail
its nuclear program, which they say is aimed at developing an
atomic weapon. Iran contends that its nuclear research is for
civilian use.  Carbon Tax  South Africa’s Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said Feb. 27
the country will impose a carbon tax of 120 rand a metric ton on
40 percent of a company’s emissions from 2015 and increase it by
10 percent a year until 2020. Sasol would like to see the 60
percent exemption increased, Chief Executive Officer David Constable said at today’s presentation.  Sasol is spending as much as $21 billion on a gas-to-liquid
plant and a chemicals operation in  Louisiana , the biggest
foreign-direct investment in the state’s history, according to
Constable. The company is also investing in  Canada ,  Uzbekistan 
and  Nigeria , as well as ramping up production in Qatar.  Sasol may approach bond markets regularly to fund its
expansion in  North America  and may look at issuing further
dollar debt, Ramon said.  The stock climbed for a third day, gaining 1.1 percent to
407.50 rand by the close in Johannesburg. About 1.16 million
shares changed hands, or 67 percent of the daily average over
the last three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  