-- Saudi Real Estate Weighs Funding for Project, Chief Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-03-12T09:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/saudi-real-estate-weighs-funding-for-riyadh-project-chief-says.html
Saudi Real Estate Co. (SRECO)  may sell
Islamic bonds or take out bank loans this year to finance a 5
billion-riyal ($1.3 billion) housing development north of
 Riyadh , its chief executive officer said.  “We are trying to ensure we can sell Islamic bonds, borrow
from banks or get financing from real estate funds if we have
to,” Fahad Al Said said in a March 10 telephone interview.
“Off-plan sales make a lot of sense for residential development
at the moment.”  Saudi officials have recently allowed advance sales of
unbuilt properties, known as off-plan, to encourage  home
construction . Saudi Real Estate will focus on middle-income
buyers to take advantage of a shortage of housing in that part
of the market, the CEO said, declining to provide a  price range 
for the homes.  Saudi Real Estate is securing final government approval to
build 7,000 homes as well as offices, hotels and shops on 2.5
million square meters (27 million square feet) of land, the CEO
said. The project, to be built in phases, includes roads, water
and electricity supply. The company will probably seek the
funding in mid-2013, he said.  “We’re seeing a lot of interest from other developers that
would like to buy land from us and develop it themselves,” the
CEO said. Saudi Real Estate, which generates around 70 percent
of its income from renting properties, will pay for some of the
development with its own capital, he said.  King’s Pledge  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil exporter, needs 2
million new homes by 2014 to keep up with a population that’s
quadrupled over 40 years. In March 2011,  King Abdullah  pledged
to spend 250 billion riyals ($66.7 billion) on new homes as a
wave of revolutions toppled leaders from  Morocco  to Yemen.  “We have the ability to complete the north Riyadh project
within two years, but we will build in line with the demand we
see after the first phase,” he said.  The developer is delaying several commercial projects in
Riyadh and Jeddah because new  office space  coming onto the
market in both cities is outstripping demand.  “It doesn’t make sense for me to build offices while there
is a big need for homes, hotels and entertainment facilities,”
the CEO said.  Saudi Projects  The company is developing a 500 square-meter project east
of the capital and building a tower in the port city of  Jeddah .
It’s also working on an industrial city in the eastern city of
Al Dammam, the CEO said.  Saudi Real Estate’s 2013 profit will probably be little
changed from the year earlier. Last year, the company’s profit
increased 20 percent to 180 million riyals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Real Estate rose 0.3 percent to 32 riyals at 11:37
a.m. in Riyadh trading today. The shares gained 8.4 percent in
the last 12 months, giving the company a market value of 3.87
billion riyals. That compares with a 0.5 percent increase for
the Tadawul All Share Real Estate Development Industries Index,
which includes seven other developers.  Four analysts recommend investors buy the company’s shares,
while a similar number has a hold rating on the stock. One
analyst has a reduce rating, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  