-- Saudi Arabia’s Al Jaber Seeks More Europe Hotels With Cash
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-03-11T11:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/saudi-arabia-s-al-jaber-seeks-more-europe-hotels-with-ready-cash.html
Sheikh Mohamed bin Issa al Jaber,
Saudi Arabia’s third-richest person, plans to expand his luxury-
hotel holdings in  Portugal  and elsewhere in  Europe  as the
region’s debt crisis presents a buying opportunity for investors
with cash.  Al Jaber, whose JJW Hotels & Resorts Ltd owns dozens of
properties including the Grand Hotel Wien in Vienna and the
Hotel Balzac in Paris, said his group will focus on four- and
five-star luxury hotels.  “We are looking at a lot of opportunities in Europe,
including in Portugal,” Al Jaber, 54, said in a telephone
interview. “Where there are difficulties, there will always be
opportunities.”  MBI International & Partners Inc., the holding company
founded by Al Jaber that controls JJW Hotels, in 2008 bought
three resorts in the Algarve, Portugal’s southern tourist
region. MBI paid  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  $268
million for the properties.  “Since 2012, JJW has invested globally more than $400
million,” he said. “I can’t tell you the amount we plan to
invest in new acquisitions because that will depend on the
opportunities that become available to us.”  Debt Repurchase  Al Jaber said he repurchased all of his company’s loans
from  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  and other banks in Portugal
last month. As a result, petitions to declare some of his
companies in Portugal insolvent were dropped, he said.  “That has all disappeared,” he said. “Today our
relationship with Banco Comercial is excellent and we plan to
continue to invest in Portugal.”  Al Jaber spent as much as 100 million euros ($130 million)
buying back the Portuguese debt, newspaper Jornal de Negocios
reported on Feb. 14, without saying how it obtained the
information. He wouldn’t comment on the amount spent.  Al Jaber is the 150th richest person worldwide with a net
worth of $7.8 billion as of March 8, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaire’s Index.  JJW Hotels owns the Dona Filipa Hotel and the San Lorenzo
Golf Resort in the Algarve. It also owns the Penina Golf and
Resort, the first five star hotel in the region, the Hotel
Formosa Parque, the Pinheiros Altos Golf Resort and the Royal
Algarve & Spa, which is currently under construction.  The company doesn’t need to raise additional financing for
future acquisitions and there are no plans to sell shares in any
of the companies controlled by MBI International, he said.  Al Jaber may sell some assets such as budget hotels that
are no longer part of the group strategy of investing in luxury
property, he said.  Al Jaber is the chief executive officer of MBI
International, which has a net asset value of more than $9
billion, according to the company’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  