-- White Tells Senators She’d Be Investor Advocate as SEC Chief
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-03-12T19:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/sec-nominee-white-to-face-conflict-questions-at-senate-hearing.html
Mary Jo White, President  Barack Obama ’s choice to run the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, told lawmakers that her work for Wall Street firms
won’t affect her ability to be a zealous advocate for investors.  The scope of any conflicts of interest is “quite narrow”
and would mostly affect SEC enforcement cases, White, 65, said
today at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on her nomination.
Her participation in writing regulations will be unaffected by
her previous representation of clients such as  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , and  UBS AG (UBSN)  as a defense lawyer.  “The public investors should know I am their advocate,”
White said. As a U.S. attorney from 1993 to 2002, “I was
exceptionally aggressive against large institutions, CEOs and
senior executive types,” she said.  White, who has said she would retire from New York-based
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP if she’s confirmed, drew bipartisan
support at the hearing before the Democrat-led panel. Senator
 Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, said last week he wasn’t ready
to support White because of concerns over conflicts of interest.  “While I will have recusals, as many nominees, mine are
not out of the ordinary in scope,” White said. “In general,
I’m not recused from any SEC rulemaking or policy matters.”  Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, trumpeted
White’s record as a former U.S. attorney who prosecuted
terrorists, mobsters and inside traders.  Her record “leaves no doubt she will vigorously pursue the
SEC’s enforcement agenda,” Schumer said in a statement
introducing her to the committee.  Economic Impact  White’s testimony followed recent warnings from Attorney
General Eric Holder that the size of the largest financial
institutions make it difficult to fully punish them for
wrongdoing. She said in response to a question that the SEC
considers the economic impact of penalties it seeks against
companies, though those consequences aren’t considered a barrier
to bringing a lawsuit.  “At the SEC, there is no institution too big to charge,”
White said.  A top priority would be completing rules required by the
Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 and last year’s Jumpstart Our Business
Startups Act, White said. The SEC should consistently consider
the economic costs and benefits of new rules “from the
outset,” she wrote in her prepared remarks.  Pending Regulations  She mostly avoided forecasting her position on pending
regulations, although she assured senators that the SEC, not the
banking regulators who are members of the Financial Stability
Oversight Council, should write new rules for money-market
mutual funds. Regulators have debated how to limit the risk
posed by some money funds since the September 2008 collapse of
the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund.  “I understand the systemic risk that is trying to be
addressed by the discussions,” she said. “I am also acutely
aware of the value of money-fund products. Whatever is done, we
want to make sure that is not harmed by this.”  Questioned by Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican,
White said she would immediately turn her “personal attention”
to the Volcker rule, which prohibits proprietary trading by
banks. White told Corker she was committed to what he called a
“bright line” to distinguish among proprietary trading,
hedging activities and market-making.  Blocking Cordray  White was the focus of most attention at the hearing, where
senators also questioned  Richard Cordray , Obama’s nominee to be
director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Republicans are blocking full Senate consideration of Cordray,
looking to restructure the bureau’s leadership and gain
oversight over its budget before voting on a permanent director.  Senate Republicans haven’t publicly expressed reservations
about White’s nomination. The banking committee must approve
White’s appointment before it moves to a full Senate vote.  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, said at today’s
hearing he would “aggressively support” her to lead the SEC.
Senator  Mike Crapo  of  Idaho  said after the hearing that he
“would intend to support her.”  “You had a bipartisan group praising her and committing to
vote for her nomination, so I think she’s going to sail through
quite easily,” said Brian Gardner, senior vice president for
Washington research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  