-- Serb Finance Minister Wants to Repay $430 Million Early
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-11T07:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/serb-finance-minister-wants-to-repay-430-million-early.html
Serbia could repay as much as $430
million of its foreign debt by the end of April if the
government approves the Finance Ministry’s proposal to take
advantage of “significant budget liquidity.”  Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic will ask the government to
approve the early repayment of “expensive credits from the
past” after Serbia posted a consolidated fiscal surplus of 3.8
billion dinars ($44 million) in January, the Finance Ministry
said in a March 9 e-mailed statement.  “Considering that fiscal policy measures have yielded
exceptionally good results in lowering the interest rate on our
public debt both in international and domestic financial
markets, the Finance Ministry believes conditions have been met
for early repayment of past expensive credits,” it said.  Junk-rated sovereigns, including Serbia and  Hungary , have
taken advantage of optimism about global economic recovery while
extra liquidity from central banks push investors to higher-
yielding assets.  Serbia has borrowed $3.25 billion in three Eurobond sales
abroad since September, equivalent to 8 percent of gross
domestic product, as the government tries to finance the budget
gap and service maturing debts.  The Balkan nation sold $1.5 billion of seven-year bonds
with a yield of 5.15 percent last month, after paying 5.45
percent on $750 million in five-year notes in November and 6.625
percent on $1 billion worth of 10-year bonds last September.  Early Repayment  The early repayment will “thus bring savings in current
budget expenditures both this year and in the coming years as it
will ensure lower spending on interest-rate payments,” it said.
Serbia needs $1 billion to repay interest rates in 2013.  Serbia reported a 6.99 billion-dinar budget gap in January.
The consolidated result, which includes local governments,
pension and health funds, showed a surplus of 3.8 billion dinars
in January as total revenue reached 116 billion dinars and
spending 112.2 billion dinars, the ministry said. Revenue rose
after the government gave companies three months to pay delayed
social contributions and property taxes.  Prime Minister Ivica Dacic’s eight-month-old Cabinet is
seeking to narrow this year’s fiscal deficit to 3.6 percent of
economic output from more than 6 percent in 2012. It also wants
to curb price increases and restart growth after the economy
contracted an estimated 1.7 percent in 2012 as the euro region’s
financial crisis hurt demand for its products and cut foreign
investment.  The International Monetary Fund suspended a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan with Serbia in February last year after the
previous government failed to meet deficit and debt targets.  The IMF told Serbia after talks in November to implement
measures to cut debt without choking economic growth, citing
unsustainable fiscal gap, volatile inflation and high
unemployment. The Washington-based lender will discuss new loan
in May only if the Cabinet agrees on fiscal policy goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  