-- Serb Central Bank Will Probably Halt Rate Increases, Assess CPI
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-11T08:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/serb-central-bank-will-probably-halt-rate-increases-assess-cpi.html
Serbia’s central bank will probably
halt its tightening cycle by leaving borrowing costs unchanged
tomorrow as it assesses price pressures before cutting rates to
spur economic growth.  The Narodna Banka Srbije will keep the benchmark  one-week
repurchase rate  at 11.75 percent after raising it eight times in
the past nine meetings, according to 17 of 24 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Six expect a quarter-point increase, while one
sees a quarter-point cut. The bank will announce its decision at
noon tomorrow in Belgrade.  “They will probably hold it this month because there will
be no sharp drop in inflation, but it’s only a matter of time
before they start lowering the rate,” said Ratko Guduric, the
deputy head of treasury at Vojvodjanska Banka AD in Belgrade.  Rate-setters pledged on Feb. 13 to consider changes to
monetary policy as inflation pressures based on food and
regulated prices disappear. Vice Governor Veselin Pjescic said
the current rate level represents a sufficient degree of
restrictiveness as long as current forecasts, including an
economic contraction of 0.1 percent and 2 percent inflation in
the euro area, are met.  ‘Ample Liquidity’  “They need to cut the repo rate because of ample
liquidity, declining yields on domestic Treasury bills and the
stable dinar,” Jasna Atanasijevic, chief economist at the
Belgrade-based Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank AD, said by phone. “This
all shows that neither the market nor corporate clients need
such high interest rates.”  The trend in Serbian rates has run counter to others in the
region, where borrowing costs are falling to halt economic
slowdowns amid  Europe ’s debt crisis. The National Bank of Serbia
wants to ease price pressures stemming from regulated price
increases and expanded dinar liquidity.  Inflation has been accelerating since April 2012, when it
fell to a 30-year low of 2.7 percent, due to rising food costs
amid a drop in farm output. The rate reached 12.8 percent in
January and is expected to peak at 14 percent through April. The
central bank wants to bring it down to 4 percent, plus or minus
1.5 percentage points, by December.  Economic Recession  Prices continued to rise even as the economy fell into its
second recession in three years and consumer demand contracted
as wage growth remained tame and unemployment increased.  Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  said March 6 he will ask
the central bank to lower interest rates and manage the dinar’s
exchange rate to bolster economic growth and exports.  The central bank will be “very cautious about relaxing
policy and cutting the benchmark  interest rate ,” said Ljiljana Grubic, analyst with Raiffeisenbank AD in Belgrade, who sees a
20 basis-point increase in the rate to reflect “the inflation
targeting framework” and “concern over a risk of sudden
outflows.”  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet has relied on external
borrowing rather than foreign direct investments to finance the
 budget deficit , which the government wants to narrow to 3.6
percent of economic output from more than 6 percent last year.  Bond buying by central banks in the U.S. and the euro
region has stoked appetite for riskier emerging-market assets,
allowing junk-rated issuers such as Hungary and  Serbia , which
are both in recession, to raise funds at a lower cost.  Serbia is “a flow magnet,” Moscow-based VTB Capital
analysts said in a March 6 note to investors.  Both yields and the dinar have been “driven by
international flows, which have so far been persistent and
solid,” and that is “unlikely to change in the near future, as
Serbian domestic rates are some of the highest in the world and
global risk appetite is strong,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  