-- Siemens Takes Tram Technology to Wire Up Trucks With VW’s Scania
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-03-11T14:52:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/siemens-takes-tram-technology-to-wire-up-trucks-with-vw-s-scania.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, formed a partnership with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Scania unit to develop trucks powered by electricity from
overhead or via road surfaces, like tram systems.  The project aims to make commercial vehicles by combining
Soedertaelje, Sweden-based Scania’s knowledge of electric truck
and bus power trains with Siemens’s power-supply expertise, the
two companies said today in separate statements.  “ Sweden ’s aim of fossil-free freight transport and access
to fossil-free electricity creates a positive political climate
for this type of technology,” Goeran Persson, head of Siemens’s
Infrastructure and Cities unit in Sweden, said in the statement.
“We are now taking a big step forward in being able to supply a
finished product.”  Siemens’s “eHighway” project, begun in 2010 with some
German government funding, draws on so-called pantograph
technology similar to that used in trams. Electricity is
provided to buses and heavy cargo vehicles through overhead
cables, and the company already has a 4-kilometer (2.5 mile)
test track outside Berlin. Last year, the two companies
presented an electric truck prototype based on this technology,
and the Swedish Transport Administration has proposed the trial
installation of overhead cables on a 12-kilometer stretch of
road near the Finnish border.  In 2006, Sweden commissioned a report which proposed ways
to eliminate the country’s dependence on oil by 2020,  targeting 
a reduction of at least 40 percent in the use of oil for road
transport.  Volkswagen, which controls Scania, is seeking closer
cooperation between the Swedish truckmaker and MAN AG, the
Munich-based truckmaker in which it owns a 73.7 percent stake.  While today’s announcement places the cooperation between
the two companies on a more formal footing, it is too early to
say whether it will become a full joint venture, Scania
spokesman Hans-Ake Danielsson said by telephone, declining to
specify any targets or time-frame for development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  