-- Simpson Thacher, Skadden, Shiff Hardin: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/simpson-thacher-skadden-shiff-hardin-business-of-law.html
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP
represents KKR & Co., the private-equity firm run by  Henry
Kravis  and  George Roberts , which agreed to buy industrial
equipment maker  Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI)  for about $3.7 billion after
raising its offer. Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP is
advising Gardner Denver.  The Simpson Thacher team on this deal includes Sean Rodgers, Andy Calder, mergers and acquisitions; James Cross,
credit; Richard Fenyes,  capital markets ; Joe Tringali, David Vann, antitrust; Andrea Wahlquist, executive compensation and
employee benefits; and Nancy Mehlman, tax.  The Skadden team includes  New York  partners Stephen Arcano
and Richard Grossman, mergers and acquisitions; Neil Leff,
executive compensation and benefits; and David Rievman, tax.  KKR will pay $76 a share for Wayne, Pennsylvania-based
Gardner Denver, the companies said March 8 in a statement.
That’s a 39 percent premium to the price on Oct. 24, the day
before the company announced it was exploring a sale. KKR last
month offered $75 a share,  Bloomberg News  reported Feb. 21.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Nelson Mullins Hires Education Team of Lawyers in Atlanta  A team of seven attorneys, including two partners, who
practiced education law at Brock, Clay, Calhoun & Rogers LLC has
joined Nelson Mullins Riley & Scarborough LLP in its Atlanta
office.  Led by D. Glenn Brock, the group represents public school
districts and education professionals in matters including
drafting and oversight of legislation, policy, accreditation
issues and litigation on constitutional matters, the firm said
in a statement.  With their departure, their old firm has been renamed
Gregory, Doyle, Calhoun & Rogers LLC.  Brock has focused on school district representation,
serving as outside general counsel to superintendents, school
boards, and administrators over the last 25 years. He also has
been counsel to the Georgia Department of Education, the firm
said.  The group will work with a Nelson Mullins affiliate,
EducationCounsel LLC in  Washington , which provides clients with
birth-to-postsecondary policy, legal, strategic planning, and
advocacy services, the firm said.  Former U.S. Secretary of Education Richard W. Riley, who
held the position from 1993 to 2001, is currently senior counsel
in EducationCounsel LLC, which is affiliated with the  law firm .  “This group’s experience in working with school districts
will complement the policy and practice focus of
EducationCounsel and vice versa,” Riley said in a statement.
“These teams of thought leaders and practitioners are excited
about their ability to work together to help education leaders
pursue their important work of providing a high quality
education for all students.”  Nelson Mullins has more than 470 attorneys and government
relations professionals practicing in 13 U.S. offices.  Thompson & Knight Absorbs Ongaro Firm in San Francisco  Thompson & Knight LLP established a second California
office in San Francisco with the addition of seven attorneys and
other staff from the Ongaro Law Firm.  The office will be led by  San Francisco  litigator David R.
Ongaro and will remain in its current location.  The new office will focus on commercial litigation,
particularly in matters involving products liability and labor
and employment, the firm said.  Thompson & Knight opened a Los Angeles office in October
2012. The firm has about 330 lawyers at 12 offices in the U.S.,
North Africa and  Europe .  Minter Ellison Names Two Partners to Leadership Roles  Minter Ellison  named partner Pamela Jack the new head of
the firm’s construction practice division. Partner Andrew
Rentoul will be the new infrastructure industry group leader,
the firm said.  Both roles were previously held by Brisbane-based Ian
Briggs, who has taken a year’s leave to work with a major
client, the firm said.  The firm’s construction practice division has 20 partners
and more than 75 lawyers across Australia and  Asia . Jack has
more than 30 years’ experience.  Rentoul specializes in sector-related mergers and
acquisitions, privatization and concession arrangements, project
structures and infrastructure development.  Minter Ellison has 15 offices in Australia,  Hong Kong ,
mainland China, Mongolia,  New Zealand  and the U.K.  Moves  Laterals Hire Wrap-Up: Schiff Hardin, K&L Gates, SNR Denton  Schiff Hardin LLP hired three partners in Washington and
Philadelphia to the firm’s corporate and securities group from
Cozen O’Connor.  Ralph V. De Martino, a former chairman of Cozen’s global
securities practice group, and F. Alec Orudjev, will be based in
Washington. Cavas S. Pavri will work in both Washington and
Philadelphia.  In addition to their domestic corporate and securities
work, the three men have experience providing Chinese clients
with counsel on transactional, regulatory and litigation
matters, the firm said.  Since the beginning of the year, Schiff Hardin has hired,
about 25 lateral attorneys across six U.S. offices and seven
practice groups.  Also in Washington, Gary D. Anderson joined King & Spalding
LLP as a partner in the business litigation practice in
Washington. He was a partner at Baker Hostetler LLP. Anderson’s
experience representing clients in commercial litigation and
white-collar matters, has included advising  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  in a claim involving Boston’s “Big Dig”
project, and representation of Aon Corp. in an investigation by
the New York attorney general’s office into the insurance
brokerage industry and the industry’s placement practices, the
firm said.  In Philadelphia, Wisler Pearlstine LLP announced that
zoning and land-use lawyer Edward F. Murphy is joining the firm
as a partner. Murphy’s addition will enable the firm to open a
Newtown, Pennsylvania, office, which will be the firm’s base of
operations for Bucks County and the  Lehigh Valley . He has
practiced zoning and land-use law as a partner with McBride &
Murphy for more than 30 years, the firm said.  Cooley LLP announced that Michael R. Faber has joined the
firm as a partner in its tax practice. Faber, who will be based
in the New York office, joins the firm from Wilson Sonsini
Goodrich & Rosati PC, where he focused his practice on mergers
and acquisitions, as well as general corporate and partnership
tax matters.  Laura McBride has joined Ulmer & Berne LLP as a partner in
the firm’s litigation department in  Cleveland . She will co-head
the firm’s energy, natural resources and utilities practice
group. She was previously at Calfee, Halter & Griswold LLP.  Jackson Lewis LLP hired Karen M. Morinelli as a partner in
the firm’s newly opened Tampa office. Morinelli joins Jackson
Lewis from Ogletree, Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC.  K&L Gates LLP hired corporate and securities partner  David
Johnson  and commercial disputes partner Samuel C. S. Ngo in the
firm’s Hong Kong office. Johnson arrives at K&L Gates from Allen
& Overy LLP, while Ngo joins from Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe
LLP.  Johnson advises corporate and sovereign issuers and
underwriters across the Asia-Pacific region on public and
private equity and debt financings and other corporate
transactions.  Ngo represents PRC- and Hong Kong-listed companies,
property developers, and others on a variety of complex
commercial litigation and arbitration matters, the firm said.  The firm also hired Steven C. Sparling and David L. Wochner
as partners in the firm’s energy practice, from Sutherland
Asbill & Brennan LLP.  Sparling counsels clients on the legal, operational, and
commercial aspects of the liquefied natural gas industry. He
will practice out of the Washington and Houston offices.  Wochner, who will be based in Washington, concentrates his
practice on LNG and natural gas regulatory, policy, and
transactional matters including exports, unconventional
production, and pipeline transportation issues.  SNR Denton LLP announced that Megan Delany has joined the
firm’s Washington, office as a principal in the
telecommunications and technology policy practice. She was
previously at General Communication, Inc, where she was Vice
President, Governmental Affairs and Counsel.  News  Sequestration Hits Justice System as Courts Keep Bankers’ Hours  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn will no longer be
holding his usual hearings after hours in his Manhattan
courtroom because of the billions of dollars in congressionally
mandated federal spending cuts that took effect this month.  “As long as sequestration lasts, 5 p.m. will be the stop
time,” Glenn told lawyers for  Residential Capital LLC (ALLY) , the
bankrupt mortgage company, the afternoon of Feb. 28.  Companies in bankruptcy often keep courts open late seeking
approval to continue operating, pay employees or settle creditor
disputes. Debtors and creditors may have to wait longer, now
that Glenn and his colleagues are facing their own financial
squeeze. Alongside the courts, law enforcement agencies and
other components of the U.S. justice system are anticipating
shortages of staff, security, and even paper.  Congress mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board cuts
over nine years, including $85 billion over the next seven
months, as part of a 2011 deal to increase the U.S. debt limit.
For the federal judiciary this year, sequestration will require
cutting $332 million, about 5 percent of its current $6.97
billion budget.  A four-page directive by the Administrative Office of the
U.S. Courts that took effect March 1 put in place so-called
emergency measures throughout the federal court system. They
include possible suspension of civil jury trials during
September, deferring payments to court-appointed lawyers for two
weeks and reducing court security 25 hours to 1,933 hours per
officer.  For more, click here.  Video  Survey Says 78% of Law Schools Ignore ABA Standards  Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia looks at a recent report from
nonprofit group Law School Transparency finding that 78 percent
of American law schools have ignored new ABA standards on
providing consumers with accurate information.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 