-- Singapore Press Rises to Five-Year High on REIT: Singapore Mover
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-03-11T09:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/singapore-press-rises-to-five-year-high-on-reit-singapore-mover.html
Singapore Press Holdings Ltd. (SPH) , the
newspaper publisher that owns the Paragon mall along the city’s
shopping belt, climbed to the highest in five years after saying
it’s exploring a real estate investment trust.  The stock  rose  3.4 percent to S$4.31 at the close in
Singapore, the highest since June 2008. The publisher of the
 Straits Times  and other newspapers in Singapore  said  in January
its fiscal first-quarter publishing sales declined 2.3 percent
to S$263.5 million ($211 million). Real estate revenue increased
2.9 percent to S$48.2 million in the three months ended Nov. 30.  “Setting up a REIT makes sense for Singapore Press
Holdings as they can monetize their assets,” Pearlyn Wong, a
Singapore-based analyst with Bank Julius Baer & Co, said in a
telephone interview. “In addition, their media business is
slowing down.”  The company’s key real estate including the Paragon along
Orchard Road and Clementi Mall in a western suburb are “fully
leased,” it said earlier this year. A new property called
Seletar Mall in a northeastern district is expected to be
completed at the end of next year, it said.  The REIT is worth S$2.8 billion excluding Seletar Mall,
Wong said. Including the property that’s being developed, the
REIT will have S$3.1 billion of assets, she said.  Singapore  Press also said in January that it will monitor
its cost structure amid changing media consumption trends for a
“sustained performance” of its main newspaper business.  “The properties forming the portfolio of the REIT and the
terms at which the properties will be injected into the REIT are
currently still under review,” Ginney Lim May Ling, the company
secretary, said in a statement to the Singapore stock exchange
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  