-- Sinovel Says Chairman Han Will Resign for Personal Reasons
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-03-11T17:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/sinovel-chairman-han-resigns-for-personal-reasons-company-says.html
Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558) , the biggest
wind-turbine maker by market value, said Han Junliang will
resign as chairman for personal reasons, becoming the third
Chinese renewable-energy company in a week to replace the head
of its board.  Han also will step down from his positions at all Sinovel
subsidiaries, the Beijing-based company said today in a Shanghai
stock exchange  filing . Wei Wenyuan was appointed as Han’s
replacement.  Sinovel follows  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , which replaced
its chairman March 4, and  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , which did so the
following day. All three are under financial duress, which often
triggers new leadership, according to Pavel Molchanov, an
analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston.  “Cleantech has always been an industry where turnover, by
most standards, is intense, and with companies on the cusp of
real distress or insolvency, that type of thing tends to
accelerate,” Molchanov said today in an interview.  Sinovel revised down its 2011 profit 22 percent to 607.4
million  yuan  due to an accounting error announced March 7.  The turbine company also is embroiled in a legal dispute
with Devins, Massachusetts-based  American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) ,
which is seeking a total of more than $1.2 billion in damages in
Chinese courts from its former largest customer. AMSC accused
Sinovel of stealing its technology and violating sales
contracts.  Suntech, the largest solar-panel maker in 2011, today
extended the deadline for $541 million in bonds that are now due
May 15. The notes were initially due Friday and Shi Zhengrong,
the ousted chairman, said March 5 the company had no plan in
place to pay the debt.  LDK is expected to report losses of about $641 million for
2012, after a $655 million 2011 loss according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  The shifts come as China’s National People’s Congress meets
in Beijing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  