-- Skelos Says Republicans Will Block a Vote on N.Y. Fracking Ban
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-03-11T20:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/skelos-says-republicans-will-block-a-vote-on-n-y-fracking-ban.html
Dean Skelos, a Long Island
Republican and co-leader of the  New York  Senate, said he will
block a vote on a bill to extend a ban on fracking.  “It’s unnecessary,” Skelos said today in an interview in
 Albany . “The governor has a process that’s been going on and I
think that’s where we should leave it.”  Governor Andrew Cuomo has kept in place a four-year
moratorium on hydraulic fracturing for natural gas until an
environmental review is complete. That review hinges on an
analysis by Health Commissioner Nirav Shah, who is considering
two outside studies: one by Danville, Pennsylvania-based
Geisinger Health System on thousands of people who live near
wells and another by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  Shah said he won’t wait until those studies are complete to
make a decision. The Senate bill would require him to do so.  “I anticipate we’ll be done in the next few weeks,” Shah
said today at press briefing. “We are learning more information
as we go, and we want to make sure we cover all the ground and
not rush through this.”  The Senate bill was introduced March 5 by the Independent
Democratic Conference, a group of five breakaway Democrats who
share power with Republicans. The next day, the Democratic-
controlled Assembly passed a separate measure that would create
a two-year ban. Cuomo, a Democrat, said today he doesn’t believe
the legislature will pass any ban.  Fracking, in which water and chemicals are injected into
shale formations to free trapped oil and gas, poses a dilemma
for Cuomo, 55, who must balance prospects for the type of
economic development seen in Ohio and  Pennsylvania  against
environmentalists’ warnings that it may damage water supplies
and make farmland unusable. Last month, Environmental
Conservation Commissioner Joseph Martens said the state would
begin issuing fracking permits before creating regulations if
the Health Department says natural-gas drilling is safe.  “We’re not looking for a political resolution,” Cuomo
said. “We want a conclusion based on the science.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  