-- Soco to Expand Vietnam Field Output 27%, Allowing Dividend
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-03-11T17:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/soco-plans-to-expand-vietnam-field-output-27-allowing-dividend.html
Soco International Plc (SIA) , a U.K. oil
explorer focused on Africa and  Asia , is seeking to boost pumping
capacity at its fields off Vietnam by about 27 percent, allowing
it to pay an annual dividend to shareholders from this year.  Soco plans to test production at the Te Giac Trang fields
at more than 70,000 barrels of oil a day, Chief Executive
Officer Ed Story said. Now, its floating, production, storage
and offloading vessel has a 55,000 barrel-a-day designed
capacity.  “We have another, maybe, 15,000 barrels a day of
production that is limited by that capacity in the vessel,”
Story said in a phone interview. “In the course of doing this
test, we will determine what the limitations are.”  The London-based company, which today reported record sales
for last year of $621.6 million, is studying paying annual
dividends this year. It had $320 million in cash on March 8 and
plans to secure new projects in West Africa and  Vietnam  with at
least one to be announced this year, Story said.  “We are looking to do an annual distribution going forward
depending on the rates of production and cash generated,” he
said. “There will be a distribution no matter what.”  Soco rose 1.7 percent to 383.3 pence, the highest in a
month, by the close in  London .  The explorer will hold about $500 million in cash by the
end of the year, estimated Sanjeev Bahl, a London-based analyst
at Numis Securities Ltd. This will be “significantly in excess
of current asset capital expenditure requirements.”  Increased Reserves  The company plans to drill an appraisal well at TGT H5
block this year, which will possibly allow it to book increased
reserves, Story said. Soco in February raised its estimate for
the TGT fields’ resources to 958 million barrels of oil in
place, up from 466 million barrels, citing data from RPS Energy
Consultants Ltd.  “I know we’ve been rather boring because of no exploration
wells in the past year, but that would change,” Story said.  Soco plans to drill the Lideka Marine East Well 1 in the
Republic of Congo later this year and is examining plans to
drill two wells in the Nganzi Block in the  Democratic Republic 
of Congo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  