-- Corn, Soybeans Climb as Feed Demand Erodes U.S. Supplies
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-03-11T20:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/soybeans-advance-as-usda-cut-global-output-estimate-on-argentina.html
Corn futures rose to a four-week
high and soybeans gained after a government report showed demand
for livestock feed eroded U.S. inventories. Wheat advanced.  Corn stockpiles before the next harvest will fall to 632
million bushels, the lowest since 1996, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said on March 8. The agency raised its forecast for
use of the grain in animal feed by 2.2 percent to 4.55 million
bushels. Soybean  inventory  may drop to the lowest since 2004.  “We have not slowed consumption for either corn or
soybeans,” Jim Gerlach, the president of A/C Trading Co. in
Fowler, Indiana, said in a telephone interview. “The USDA
report will keep prices high to ration tight supplies.”  Corn futures for delivery in May gained 1.1 percent to
close at $7.1125 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Earlier, the price reached $7.1625, the highest for a
most-active contract since Feb. 8.  Soybean futures for May delivery rose 0.6 percent to
$14.795 a bushel, the highest settlement since Feb. 7.  Corn rose to a record in August, and soybeans jumped to an
all-time high in September after the most-severe drought since
the 1930s damaged crops. The grain and oilseed premiums for May
futures increased versus prices in the fourth quarter as rain
boosted prospects for summer crops.  Weekend  precipitation  helped to reduce soil-moisture
deficits in the western Midwest, while rain in Argentina and
Brazil in the past two days may boost yields, Gerlach said.  As much as 1.5 inches (3.8 centimeters) of rain fell from
Nebraska to Indiana, easing concern that drought will spread for
the second straight year, Gail Martell, the president of Martell
Crop Projections in Whitefish Bay, Wisconsin, said in a report.  Wheat futures for May delivery gained 0.4 percent to $7 a
bushel, the third straight gain.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, followed by soybeans, hay
and wheat, USDA data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 Jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  