-- Spotify Said Expanding Pandora-Like Web Radio Worldwide
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-03-12T17:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/spotify-said-expanding-pandora-like-web-radio-worldwide.html
Spotify Ltd., getting a jump on
Internet radio leader  Pandora Media Inc. (P) , is close to agreements
with record labels to offer free mobile radio outside the U.S.,
said three people with knowledge of the talks.  Spotify seeks to offer ad-supported mobile radio everywhere
it operates starting in April, said the people, who sought
anonymity because the plans aren’t public. The London-based
company said it now offers a Web radio product to mobile users
in the U.S. and desktop users in 20 countries.  The company is using free mobile radio to attract customers
who may convert to its subscription music service, the world’s
biggest. Mobile is key for both companies -- Pandora, for
example, draws three-fourths of its audience on mobile devices
and hasn’t expanded beyond the U.S., Australia and  New Zealand .  Spotify’s markets include the U.S., U.K., Sweden, Germany,
France and Australia, according to the company’s  website . The
service has 20 million free users and about 5 million who pay
$10 a month to access unlimited, commercial-free music on
computers and mobile devices.  The company is also seeking to add new territories in its
talks with music publishers and  record companies  including
 Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music and EMI Group, as well as  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s music business and Warner Music Group., the people said.  Graham James, a spokesman for Spotify, declined to comment.  Spotify and Pandora may face competition from services that
Google Inc., Apple Inc. and Beats Electronics LLC plan to start
this year.  Free Internet radio listeners on Spotify have limited
control over song selection and hear advertising. Paying
subscribers can create custom playlists and save tracks on
devices.  Pandora, based in Oakland, California, fell 1.8 percent to
$13.50 at 12:55 p.m. in New York. The  stock  has climbed 50
percent this year as of yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  