-- Star Energy, Wheelock Plan Bonds as Debt Risk Heads for 2011 Low
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-03-11T04:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/star-energy-wheelock-plan-bonds-as-debt-risk-heads-for-2011-low.html
Wheelock (20)  & Co. and Star Energy
Geothermal (Wayang Windu) Ltd. are planning U.S. dollar-
denominated bond sales as a gauge of debt risk in  Asia  heads for
the lowest close in more than two years.  Star Energy, a junk-rated operator of geothermal power
stations in  Indonesia , hired Barclays Plc and DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. to arrange investor meetings in Asia,  London  and the U.S.
from tomorrow, said a person familiar with the matter. Wheelock,
which is unrated, is marketing five-year notes at about 240
basis points more than Treasuries, another person said, asking
not to be identified because the terms aren’t set.  High-yield dollar bond sales in Asia outside of  Japan 
jumped more than fivefold to $1.26 billion last week, the most
since the period beginning Jan. 28, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  India ’s Bharti Airtel Ltd., graded BB+ by  Standard
& Poor’s , led offerings with $1 billion of 5.125 percent
securities due 2023. The cost of insuring company and sovereign
notes in the region fell today to the least since January 2011,
prices from credit-default swap traders show.  “We expect Asian high-yield bond issuance to increase
substantially this year,” said Michele Barlow, the Hong Kong-
based head of Asia-Pacific credit and convertible bonds research
at Bank of America Corp. “While refinancing requirements remain
low, the rally in high-yield credit has brought yields down to a
more attractive level for funding. Growth is also picking up,
which is conducive for companies to start expanding.”  Borrowing Costs  Borrowing costs for speculative-grade companies in Asia
fell to  6.147 percent  on March 8, the least in five weeks,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes. Star Energy is rated B2
by Moody’s Investors Service, five levels below investment-
grade. Fitch Ratings ranks the company one step higher at B+.  Wheelock’s subsidiary company, Wharf Holdings Ltd., is
rated A- by Fitch, the fourth-lowest investment-grade.  Wheelock, based in  Hong Kong , last sold dollar bonds in
February 2012 when it issued $535 million of 4.75 percent notes
due 2017 at a spread of 400 basis points more than Treasuries,
Bloomberg data show. The securities were trading at a 229.6
basis-point spread as of 11:52 a.m. in Singapore, ING Groep NV
prices on Bloomberg show.  Credit Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell 3 basis points to 100 as of 8:55
a.m. in Hong Kong, according to Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. prices.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index retreated 3 basis points to
102.3 basis points as of 9:11 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc.
prices show. The benchmark is falling for a ninth straight day
and heading for its lowest level since March 2011, according to
data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped 3 basis points to
106 as of 11:32 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking
Corp. prices. The gauge is on course for its lowest close since
May 2011, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  