-- Sun Life CEO Bets on Private Loans
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-03-11T22:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/sun-life-ceo-bets-on-private-loans-corporate-canada.html
Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) , the
second-largest group-benefits provider in North America, is
financing toll roads and bridges to boost investment income and
counter lower yields on publicly traded debt.  The private loans are typically as much as C$250 million
($243 million), Sun Life Chief Executive Officer Dean Connor
said in a March 8 interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New
York. The Toronto-based insurer is looking for investments that
give it more of a spread, the difference in yield over Canadian
Treasuries.  “They’re individually negotiated, very spready assets,”
Connor said. “There aren’t many people in Canada originating
these deals.”  Connor, 56, who took over the top spot at Sun Life in
December 2011, is focusing on what he calls “four pillars of
growth” -- insurance in Canada; group coverage and voluntary
benefits in the U.S.; asset management; and expansion in Asia.
He said private loans can bolster results.  “We see a lot of opportunity, and that’s part of the
business that we’re trying to grow,” Connor told Bloomberg
Television’s  Erik Schatzker  in an interview to be aired today.
“We’re looking at other markets around the world --  Europe ,
 Australia , the United States -- other markets around the world
to source these kinds of business.”  MetLife’s Loans  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, said today
that it invested about $8.1 billion in private-placement loans
last year, primarily in the U.S., U.K., Europe and Australia.
That compares with $8.8 billion in 2011, the New York-based firm
said.  “Private-placement activity remained strong in 2012,”
said Scott Inglis, global head of MetLife Private Capital
Investors. The deals include corporate, infrastructure and tax-
credit investments, New York-based MetLife said.  Sun Life, owner of Boston-based money manager MFS
Investment Management, has increased holdings of Canadian
provincial and municipal bonds, as well as high-yield debt.
Canadian provincial bonds yield 2.6 percent compared with 2.4
percent for Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  Canada  Broad Market
Index, which tracks $1.4 trillion of government and corporate
securities.  “We’re probably tapped out” on provincial-bond increases,
Connor said. “We’re getting close to the maximum exposure we’d
like to have in that category.”  Annuities Business  Sun Life agreed in December to sell its U.S. annuities
business to a firm owned by Guggenheim Partners LLC shareholders
for $1.35 billion to reduce the insurer’s equity risk by about
65 percent and interest-rate risk by about a third. The sale
follows moves by Leon Black’s  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and
other private-equity firms, betting on a rebound in the
annuities business.  “We’ve significantly de-risked,” Connor said. “We want
people to buy our stock not as a call option on the  S&P 500 (SPX) , but
because they believe in these four pillars.”  Sun Life fell 0.7 percent to C$28.43 at 4:03 p.m. in
Toronto. The shares climbed 35 percent in the last 12 months
through March 8, the most among the six-company  Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Life & Health Insurance Index. (STLIFE)   Selling the U.S. business is Connor’s “number one
achievement,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at
MacDougall, MacDougall and MacTier Inc. in Toronto.  ‘Volatile’ Earnings  “This lessens, though does not eliminate, the risk of
lower long-term interest rates and lower equity markets,” said
Nakamoto, whose firm manages about C$4 billion, including Sun
Life shares. “I believe he has made a good first step to right-
size the company.”  Sun Life projected a year ago that annual operating income
would be C$2 billion by 2015. The insurer said this year that
2013 earnings would be reduced by about 22 cents a share because
of the annuities-unit sale.  “It’s going to take us time to close that gap,” Connor
said.  Fitch Ratings said in January it has a negative outlook on
Sun Life on the prospect that “earnings will remain volatile,”
and that the insurer’s ability to improve run-rate earnings
“will depend in part on how the company deploys the proceeds
from the sale.” The ratings firm said its main concern is that
an “ill-timed or poorly executed acquisition would negatively
impact operating earnings and debt-service coverage.”  Acquisitions Possible  Sun Life may look at acquisitions and “recapturing”
business it sold during the financial crisis in a reinsurance
deal, Connor said. The company isn’t considering stock
repurchases, he said.  Acquisitions may be “more likely” in  Asia  than other
regions, Connor said. Sun Life’s roots in the region date back
to 1892, with operations in markets including Hong Kong,  India ,
 China  and  Malaysia .  Following the U.S. annuities sale, Asia will account for as
much 14 percent of Sun Life total profit, Connor said. It will
have to reach 15 percent to 20 percent “to be relevant to
investors,” he said.  “What we want to do is grow sales forces, grow bank
partnerships, grow products, grow the group business, grow the
benefits business” in Asia, Connor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  