-- Suntech Plunges as Recovery Concerns Sink ADRs
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-03-11T21:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/suntech-plunges-as-recovery-concerns-sink-adrs.html
Chinese equities  fell from a two-
week high in  New York  on concern a recovery in the world’s
second-largest economy may be losing steam.  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP)  sank after delaying its bond repayment deadline.  The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. dropped 0.4 percent to 94.69
yesterday, declining the first time in three days. Suntech
plunged 8.7 percent and Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. fell for
a third day.  China Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH)  sank the most in three
weeks while  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  jumped as it is set to
complete a secondary offering.  Chinese industrial output for the first two months of 2013
expanded at the slowest pace since 2009 and inflation rebounded
while retail sales to new loans trailed economists’ estimates,
according to data released over the weekend. The reports cloud
the outlook for an economy emerging from a seven-quarter
slowdown as new leaders take the helm of the country amid the
final week of the annual National People’s Congress in Beijing.  “The data disappointed some people because of the weaker
industrial production and higher inflation,”  Michael Wang , an
emerging-markets strategist at Amiya Capital LLP in  London , said
by phone yesterday. “There are still uncertainties as people
are waiting for China’s new premier to signal a policy direction
before the end of the Congress meeting.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., dropped 1.2 percent to $38.63,
the first slump in five days. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
added 0.3 percent to 1,556.22.  Temporary Reprieve  Suntech’s American depositary receipts dropped to $1.15 in
the biggest retreat this month.  The company, based in Wuxi in China’s Jiangsu province,
said more than 60 percent of the holders of its notes due March
15 agreed not to exercise their rights until two months later,
according to a PR Newswire statement issued yesterday.  The decision represents a temporary reprieve for Suntech’s
management after it ousted founder Shi Zhengrong as chairman on
March 4 and settled fraud allegations involving a former sales
executive and affiliated company. Suntech hasn’t reported a
profit since the first quarter of 2011 and is suffering from a
slump in solar cell prices.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE) , a solar manufacturer based
in Baoding of  Hebei province , slipped 4.8 percent to $2.39, the
lowest level this year.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-
largest maker of wafers used to make solar cells, slid 5 percent
to $1.51, sliding the most in two weeks.  Airlines Decline  China Southern, Asia’s biggest carrier by passenger
numbers, slumped 4.3 percent to $27.57 in New York, after a
four-day gain drove it to a three-week high March 8.  China
Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA) , based in Shanghai, fell 3.5 percent to
$20.75, also dropping for the first time in five days. China
Eastern’s ADRs, each representing 50 underlying shares, traded
0.6 percent below its  Hong Kong  stock, their third day trading
at a discount.  China’s  industrial output  increased 9.9 percent in January
and February, compared with a 10.6 percent median estimate of 22
economists in a Bloomberg survey, the statistics bureau said
March 9. Retail sales rose 12.3 percent in the two months, below
the lowest economist projection of 13.8 percent and was the
smallest growth for that period since 2004. Consumer prices
climbed a more-than-estimated 3.2 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with 2 percent in January.  Vipshop, an online fashion discounter based in Guangzhou,
jumped 5.8 percent to $25.75, the highest level since March 1.  The company is set to complete a secondary share offering
on March 13, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Vipshop said in a
Feb. 21 filing it was seeking to offer as much as $120 million
of shares, involving both new share issuance as well as sales by
existing private investors.  Railway Reform  Guangshen Railway Co., which runs the only train line
linking mainland  China  to Hong Kong, climbed 2.6 percent to
$26.31 in New York, rising for the first time in three days.  China’s Ministry of Railways will be split into two,
according to a report to the National People’s Congress
yesterday, as the nation’s new leaders pare bureaucracy and
battle graft in a department that has more than 2 million
employees and a debt load larger than Denmark’s economy.  The reform may pave way for more flexible, market-driven
pricing and assets consolidation, and Guangshen will be one of
the two main listed rail operators benefiting from the change,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by Ronald Keung wrote in a
note yesterday.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 0.4 percent
to 11,435.82 yesterday, while the Shanghai Composite Index of
domestic Chinese shares slipped 0.3 percent to 2,310.59,
extending a three-day slump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  