-- Swap Frankenfood Hysterics for Accuracy in Food Labeling
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-11T22:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/swap-frankenfood-hysterics-for-accuracy-in-food-labeling.html
Is a truce in the long war over
genetically modified food in the works? Not entirely. But news
 reports  that U.S. food producers and retailers may finally be
willing to label such foods suggest the industry is preparing to
take an important step forward.  Last week, Whole Foods Market Inc. became the first major
grocery chain to say it will require labeling of all foods on
its store shelves containing genetically modified organisms. The
mandate will come into full effect in five years.  The pervasiveness of genetic modification is a well-kept
secret. Ingredients in as much as 75 percent of packaged food
have had their DNA altered to resist pests, tolerate excessive
heat or grow with less water. For two decades, seed companies,
agricultural product makers and food processors successfully
rebuffed calls for labeling. Last year, in a campaign filled
with exaggerations and half-truths, food companies spent more
than $40 million to defeat a  California  ballot initiative that
required GM labeling.  The battle is far from over, however. After their loss in
California, label advocates pressed ahead with similar drives in
almost two dozen states, including  Connecticut ,  New Mexico ,
Vermont and  Washington . Amid boycott threats, negative publicity
and the prospect of waging expensive campaigns across the
country, food companies seem to be ready to concede the point;
the public-relations cost of opposing basic disclosure has grown
too high.  The  Food and Drug Administration  could have spared everyone
the trouble. Instead, the FDA concluded more than a decade ago
that GM foods are  indistinguishable  from unaltered foods, and
that labeling was therefore unnecessary. The policy is out of
synch with those in other  industrialized nations , including the
European Union and  Japan . Even China and Brazil have tighter
requirements.  More Information  More information in the hands of consumers isn’t a bad
thing. Quite the opposite.  Polls  consistently show a large
percentage of Americans favors GM labeling. In 2007, candidate
 Barack Obama  backed labeling, though as president he has failed
to follow through.  While GM labeling is the right destination, some in the
pro-labeling camp have made the journey unnecessarily difficult,
in part by spewing alarmist epithets such as “ Frankenfood .”
It’s not unusual to hear an assortment of ills ascribed to GM
foods, from obesity and cancer to infertility and genetic
defects. The claims, including an oft-cited, but  flawed , French
study of rats that developed tumors after consuming GM corn,
aren’t supported by scientific research.  Such attacks obscure the virtues of GM crops. Engineered to
thrive in extreme weather, they can improve  food security ,
staving off malnutrition and starvation amid changing climates,
particularly in Africa and  Asia .  Legitimate questions remain. Do crops designed to produce
insecticide end up killing useful insects, such as  honey bees ?
Do pests develop resistance to GM crops, requiring farmers to
apply even more toxic chemicals to keep them in check? What
happens when GM crops crossbreed with non-GM crops? These issues
deserve thorough investigation.  Meanwhile, we support a truce. In exchange for proper GM
labeling by food producers and retailers, opponents of GM food
sources should observe a moratorium on scientifically dubious
claims and other forms of scaremongering. This shouldn’t be too
hard. In January, Mark Lynas, a U.K. environmentalist and leader
of the European opposition to GM foods,  apologized  for his role
in whipping up hysteria and organizing vandalism raids on farms
conducting trials of GM crops.  With GM labeling, consumers will be better-informed about
their food. With a lid on opponents’ scare tactics, they will be
better-informed about the science, as well.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 