-- U.K. Liberal Democrats Won’t Back Labour on Mansion Tax
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-03-12T00:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/u-k-s-cable-backs-away-from-threat-to-vote-for-mansion-tax.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
and his Liberal Democrat party backed away from a threat to vote
against the coalition government on an opposition  Labour Party 
motion calling for a tax on the most expensive houses.  Cable said late yesterday that even though he and the
 Liberal Democrats  believe in such a “mansion tax,” they won’t
side with the opposition in today’s vote in the House of
Commons. Cable told BBC Radio 4 earlier in the day that he
wanted to read Labour’s motion and the text of a government
amendment before deciding how to vote.  “The Liberal Democrats will not support a Labour motion
designed exclusively to play cynical party-political games,”
Cable said in a statement released by his office in  London .
“The amendment also makes it clear that although we are in
coalition with the Conservatives, we have different views on the
desirability of a mansion tax.”  Labour called the mansion-tax debate in an effort to sow
division between the two parties in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government a week before Conservative Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s annual budget. The proposed tax,
a policy originally espoused by the Liberal Democrats, would be
levied on properties valued at more than 2 million pounds ($3
million). The Tories oppose the tax.  In its motion, Labour calls on the government to introduce
proposals for a mansion tax “to fund a  tax cut  for millions of
people on middle and low incomes.” The party has said it would
like to reintroduce a 10 percent starting rate of income tax.  Coalition Amendment  The government amendment notes the diverging Tory and
Liberal Democrat views on the mansion levy and that the
coalition has increased both the stamp duty on purchases of the
most expensive real estate and the starting point for paying
income tax.  Cameron’s spokesman, Jean Christophe Gray, told reporters
yesterday that the prime minister “will expect, as always,
government ministers to support the government.”  The vote isn’t binding and wouldn’t introduce a levy if
Labour was to win backing in the House of Commons.  Labour Treasury spokesman  Chris Leslie  responded to Cable’s
announcement by saying that “it would be astonishing if the
Liberal Democrats failed to back a straightforward motion
supporting their long-held policy of a mansion tax.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  