-- U.S. Advances in World Baseball Classic as Cuba Is Eliminated
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-11T14:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/u-s-beats-canada-to-reach-world-baseball-classic-s-second-round.html
The U.S. advanced to the second
round of the World Baseball Classic by beating Canada 9-4 with
seven runs over the final two innings.  Adam Jones  of Major League Baseball’s Baltimore Orioles had
a two-run double in the eighth inning as the U.S. erased a 3-2
deficit yesterday in Phoenix. The Americans pushed across four
more runs in the ninth inning, with Eric Hosmer of the Kansas
City Royals delivering a three-run double with two outs.  The Netherlands reached the second-round Pool 1 final with
a 7-6 victory over Cuba in Tokyo today. Former Atlanta Braves
and  New York Yankees  outfielder  Andruw Jones  scored the winning
run on a sacrifice fly by Kalian Sams in the bottom of the ninth
inning. The Dutch team, which beat Cuba twice, will play Japan
in the Tokyo Dome tomorrow.  The U.S., which needed wins over Canada and Italy to
advance after losing its opening game to Mexico, was the last of
eight teams to reach the second round of the  World Baseball
Classic , which gives major-league players from around the world
the chance to represent their national teams.  “Play 162 games, the cream comes to the top, usually the
best teams get to the postseason,” U.S. manager  Joe Torre  said.
“But when you start playing these short series, momentum
carries you here.”  The Americans join the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and
Italy in Pool 2 and next play Puerto Rico tomorrow in Miami. The
Dominican Republic, which went 3-0 in the opening round after
defeating Puerto Rico 4-2 yesterday, faces Italy tomorrow.  Two-time defending champion Japan routed the Netherlands
16-4 in second-round play yesterday to clinch a semifinal spot.  Early Lead  The U.S. team fell behind 2-0 as starting pitcher  Derek Holland  of the Texas Rangers gave up a two-run homer  to  Michael Saunders  of the Seattle Mariners.  After the Americans tied the score with two runs in the top
of the fourth inning, Adam Loewen put  Canada  ahead 3-2 with a
two-out, run-scoring single off U.S. reliever Glen Perkins in
the bottom of the sixth inning.  The U.S. then struck for three runs in the eighth inning to
take its first lead, as Jones doubled and scored on a single by
Shane Victorino of the  Boston Red Sox .  Canada pushed across a run in the bottom of the inning and
had the bases loaded with two outs before reliever Steve Cishek
got a groundout to end the threat. The U.S. broke the game open
in the ninth as catcher Jonathan Lucroy of the Milwaukee Brewers
had a run-scoring single and Hosmer followed with a bases-loaded
double to centerfield.  The Dominican Republic defeated Puerto Rico yesterday in a
matchup of 2-0 teams as  Robinson Cano  of the  New York  Yankees
had three hits, including a home run. Both nations had already
clinched a spot in the second round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  