-- U.S. Raised $489.9 Million From GM Share Sales Last Month
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-03-12T20:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/u-s-says-it-sold-489-9-million-of-gm-shares-in-february.html
The  U.S. Treasury , which is exiting
its ownership stake in  General Motors Co. (GM) , accelerated its sell-
down of the automaker in February, raising $489.9 million in
proceeds from the sale of common shares.  The government disclosed the results  yesterday  in its
monthly report to Congress on the status of the Troubled Asset
Relief Program. A similar report  last month  said the Treasury
received $156.4 million from selling GM shares in January.  The U.S. is moving to exit within the next 12 months its
$50 billion investment in Detroit-based GM, the biggest segment
of an auto industry bailout that was a centerpiece of President
 Barack Obama ’s first term. The rescue drew criticism from
Republican officials, with GM receiving the “Government
Motors” label that Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson now is
trying to shed.  “The story is moving on at GM,” Matthew Stover, an
analyst with Guggenheim Securities LLC in  Boston , who has a
neutral rating on the shares. “They have to get on with the
business of growing and moving past the crisis period, and one
of the important pieces of all that is the government leaving
the business.”  The number of GM shares sold and average price per share
will be disclosed when each pre-arranged trading plan is
completed, according to the Treasury report.  Share Buyback  GM in December purchased 200 million of its shares for $5.5
billion from the Treasury, moving the government a step closer
to exiting the auto bailout. After that transaction, the
Treasury was left holding about 300 million shares, or 19
percent on a fully diluted basis, and said that it planned to
sell its entire holding within 15 months.  GM rose 0.2 percent to $28.37 at the close in  New York . The
shares have climbed 11 percent since Dec. 18, the day before the
company disclosed the share purchase from Treasury. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index has increased 7.3 percent during that span.  Akerson, 64, took command of GM in September 2010,
overseeing the final stages of the company’s initial public
offering in November of that year. The CEO is trying to boost
GM’s profit margins, regain market share in its home market and
break even in  Europe  by mid-decade as it competes with  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  for global auto sales leadership.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  