-- U.S. Offers GPS Training for Truckers to Avoid Bridges
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-03-11T19:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/u-s-offers-gps-training-for-truckers-to-avoid-bridges.html
The U.S. Transportation Department
will require global-positioning system training for new
commercial drivers and offer guidelines for existing operators
to reduce the number of trucks and buses striking bridges.  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration announced
the program today at a Southern State Parkway bridge on  New
York ’s Long Island that’s been struck 27 times by trucks too
tall to travel on the road. U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , a New
York Democrat, led efforts to get more training for drivers.  “These steps will help to once again make GPS devices an
asset to drivers, and not a dangerously misused tool,” Schumer
said.  Truckers following faulty GPS directions have hit bridges
in  New York City , Long Island and Westchester County more than
200 times a year since 2005, Schumer said.  About 80 percent of the bridge strikes in New York, where
parkways built decades ago with low overpasses are supposed to
be closed to commercial traffic, are caused by drivers being
misdirected by GPS devices onto roads they shouldn’t enter,
Schumer said. Even if roads are well-marked, GPS devices may not
note restrictions for trucks and buses, he said.  U.S. regulators believe truckers are using navigation
systems for passenger cars instead of ones written for big rigs
and buses, Duane DeBruyne, an FMCSA spokesman, said. The agency
wants commercial drivers to use devices listing route
restrictions such as bridge heights, he said.  “Even one truck or bus striking an overpass is one too
many, which is why we’re taking action,” FMCSA Administrator
Anne Ferro said in a statement.  Consumer GPS  The FMCSA will begin distributing GPS training
recommendations, including how to select professional-grade
navigation systems, instructions on how to input truck sizes and
axle weights, and tips on avoiding distracted driving, Schumer
said.  In addition, the agency will require GPS training for new
operators seeking commercial-driver certification, Schumer said.
That will be included later this year in a regulation Congress
required in last year’s surface transportation law.  Many truck drivers who end up on parkways with restrictions
on commercial traffic are relying on consumer GPS units, and
some use Google Inc.’s Google Maps, according to a September
2011  report  by the New York State Department of Transportation.  In New York suburbs such as Westchester County and  Long
Island , bridges over roads such as the Hutchinson River and Saw
Mill River parkways may have clearances of less than 10 feet. In
New York City, 110 bridges were struck in 2010 and 2011. On Long
Island, 94 bridges were struck during the same period, Schumer
said.  Repairs on the Long Island Expressway alone due to truck-
bridge accidents have cost $4.1 million, Schumer said. In
addition, the state has spent $3 million for 300 bridge warning
signs, he said.  According to  Transportation Department data , there were
15,000 bridge strikes by all types of vehicles in the U.S. in
2010, resulting in 214 deaths and 3,000 injuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  