-- UN Urged to Set Up Panel to Probe North Korea Abuses
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2013-03-11T14:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/un-urged-to-set-up-panel-to-probe-north-korea-abuses.html
The United Nations Human Rights
Council should create an international commission of inquiry to
probe abuses recorded in North  Korea  since 2004, said UN
investigator Marzuki Darusman.  Darusman said he documented nine “widespread and
systematic patterns of violations” of human rights by the North
Korean government. These include violations of the right to
food, torture, arbitrary detention and “extensive” violations
of freedom of expression, he told the council in Geneva today.  “For several decades, egregious human-rights abuses in
DPRK have been extensively documented by various actors,
including the United Nations entities,” said Darusman, an
Indonesian who’s the special rapporteur on human rights in North
Korea, which is known officially as the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea.  His recommendation to set up the commission will probably
be taken up in a resolution sponsored by  Japan  and the European
Union that the council will debate later this month. The UN
human-rights chief,  Navi Pillay , and groups such as Amnesty
International and Human Rights Watch back the proposal, which is
based on concerns about North Korean policies that prompted both
the 47-member council and the UN General Assembly to pass
resolutions last year condemning the country.  ‘Collective Punishment’  “Hundreds of thousands of people -- including children --
are held in political prison camps and other detention
facilities in North Korea, where they are subject to human-
rights violations, such as forced hard labor, denying food as
punishment, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading
treatment,” Amnesty  said on its website . “Many of those held
in political prison camps have not committed any crime but are
related to those deemed unfriendly to the regime and detained as
a form of collective punishment.”  Darusman said an inquiry could produce a more complete
picture, quantify and qualify the violations in terms of
international law, attribute responsibility and suggest
effective courses of international action.  North Korea’s representative to the council, Kim Song,
called the resolution “nothing more than an instrument, a
political plot” that is designed to create “an atmosphere of
international pressure under the pretext of human-rights
protection.”  “It has no relevance to the promotion and protection of
genuine human rights,” he told the council. “We make it clear
once again that human-rights violations mentioned in the report
do not exist in my country. We neither recognize nor accept the
resolution on the DPRK or the special rapporteur.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  