-- Uninsured Americans Get Hit With Biggest Hospital Bills
-- B y   C h a r l e s   R .   B a b c o c k
-- 2013-03-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/uninsured-americans-get-hit-with-biggest-hospital-bills.html
By the time Astra Augustus left
Virtua Memorial Hospital in New Jersey after the last of four
surgeries, she’d run up about $255,000 in bills.  At first, Augustus said, she thought she was lucky. Virtua
gave her a charity discount, to $30,530. Then she got statements
from the doctors who treated her in the hospital, adding
$18,000. “I didn’t know who to pay first,” Augustus said.  Virtua sued last month after she fell behind in her $400-a-
month installment plan. While the nonprofit hospital had been
generous, she said, the debt is still overwhelming for someone
with a monthly income of $2,200.  Hospitals’ fast-rising sticker prices are adding to the
financial burdens of the 49 million Americans without insurance,
more than 20 million of whom won’t be covered under President
 Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act.  So-called full charges at hospitals grew an average 10
percent a year between 2000 and 2010, according to  Gerard Anderson , a Johns Hopkins University professor who analyzed
hospital financial reports. The charges went up at four times
the pace of inflation, and faster than hospital costs, which
Anderson said increased an average 6 percent a year.  While the charges appear on hospital invoices across the
U.S., the amounts people actually pay vary widely, depending on
their health coverage. The system is so irrational that those
without any insurance can get stuck owing the most money, said
David Himmelstein, a professor at City University School of
Public Health at Hunter College in New York.  “It’s unconscionable,” said Himmelstein, who co-authored
a 2009 study that found illness and medical debt was a factor in
more than 60 percent of personal bankruptcies. “It adds to the
already grave suffering of the uninsured.”  ‘Toughest Issue’  Rich Umbdenstock , president of the American Hospital
Association, doesn’t defend the pricing structure. He said it’s
part of a “broken system” that has evolved over decades and
that hospitals can’t change on their own.  Full charges keep rising because hospitals have to try to
make up for charity care, debts they can’t collect and
inadequate reimbursements from the government Medicare and
Medicaid programs, Umbdenstock said.  “If we could have fixed this, we would’ve,” he said.
“Why would we want to perpetuate this?” Stories about people
facing insurmountable bills are “one of the toughest PR issues
we have” and damage the industry’s credibility, Umbdenstock
said.  While “hospitals are not victims,” he said, “we are
caught up in a larger system.” He said that unfortunately for
some uninsured Americans, it’s a “crazy system.”  Striking Deals  The nation’s 5,000 community hospitals provided $41 billion
in uncompensated care in 2011, or 5.9 percent of total expenses,
according to the Washington-based trade group. That number was
calculated from the costs of the care, not the full charges, and
included charity and bad debt, or what’s owed after attempts to
collect, according to the AHA.  The “vast majority” of patients pay less than the full
charges billed, Umbdenstock said. Medicare and Medicaid rates
for the most part don’t cover costs, while private insurers
strike deals that average 34 percent above costs, AHA data show.  Between 2000 and 2010, payments to hospitals went up at the
same average annual rate as hospitals’ costs, according to
Anderson, director of the Center for Hospital Finance and
Management at the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns
Hopkins in Baltimore. The school is named for  Michael Bloomberg ,
the principal owner of Bloomberg News publisher Bloomberg LP.  Markups Vary  The average full-charge bill was 2.5 times costs in 2000
and 3.6 times costs 10 years later, Anderson said. He analyzed
data contained in reports hospitals file annually with U.S.
regulators outlining what they spend, what they charge and what
they’re paid.  Markups over costs varied widely, even geographically,
according to Anderson. They were highest in 2010 in Nevada,
where the average full-charges bill was 5.91 times costs.
Pennsylvania was second at 5.58 times and New Jersey third at
5.3 times. In Maryland -- which has a hospital price control law
-- the average was 1.37 times costs, the lowest in the U.S.  That range is evidence that full charges “have no
relationship to reality,” said  David Knowlton , president of the
New Jersey Health Care Quality Institute, a Pennington-based
nonprofit. They’re like automobile sticker prices, starting
points for bargaining, he said. “You’re going to highball me,
then discount from that. That’s just what hospitals do.”  Anderson, a critic of hospital billing practices who has
testified as a paid expert witness on behalf of plaintiffs
claiming they were overcharged, said it was difficult to predict
whether the 2010 health-care law would have any limiting effect
on full-charge growth.  Financial Hit  “A rational argument would be that the ratios would stop
growing because hospitals will have additional revenue because
of the increasing number of insured and will not have to markup
the charges as much,” Anderson said. “However, old habits take
a long time to die. There is not any real adverse impact to the
hospital if they raise charges.”  The health-care law will by 2017 expand coverage so that 27
million more Americans will have insurance, according to
Congressional Budget Office estimates.  Most people without coverage are in working families,
according to the  Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the
Uninsured . About 63 percent were in households with incomes
under $50,000 in 2011, according to a September report by the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Such households
took a bigger financial hit between 2000 and 2010 than the rest
of the population: Their average income fell 9.6 percent between
2000 and 2010, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, while the
average drop for people in households earning more than $50,000
was 5.5 percent.  ‘Too Vague’  While a provision in the health-care law is aimed at
protecting those who will remain uncovered, it won’t be much of
a safeguard from full charges, said Glenn Melnick, a health care
finance  professor  at the University of Southern California in
Los Angeles who has studied the uninsured population.  Unlike measures in eight states that cap the amounts
hospitals can ask from low-income residents who don’t have
insurance, the federal act doesn’t set firm limits.  Proposed regulations from the Internal Revenue Service say
that nonprofits, about 58 percent of community hospitals, can
demand “not more than the amounts generally billed to
individuals who have insurance.” For-profit institutions won’t
be subject to the rules. The proposed regulations let hospitals
choose how they calculate generally-billed, either by using a
Medicare rate or a combination of Medicare and private insurer
payments.  The language is too vague, Melnick said. He said state laws
work because they’re clear-cut.  ‘Significant Progress’  In California, for example, a person whose family income is
350 percent of the U.S. poverty level or less pays the Medicare
rate, in effect. Before that measure was adopted in 2007,
California hospitals collected 23 percent of full charges from
the uninsured, Melnick said, and by 2011 it was down to 12
percent.  While the federal provision may be imprecise, it’s “one of
the few things in the law that protects individual patients and
their pocketbook,” said Jessica Curtis, director of the
 Hospital Accountability Project at Community Catalyst , a Boston-
based nonprofit. “It will be significant progress if we ever
get a final rule and someone to monitor and enforce it.”  The California measure didn’t help Matthew Boehm when he
went to the Santa Clara Valley Medical Center four years ago
with chest pains, which he said turned out to be symptoms of an
anxiety attack. Boehm, now 44, was a graduate student, and his
wife was a school teacher. To save money, they’d not added him
to her insurance plan, he said, and she earned too much for him
to be eligible for curtailed rates.  Hospital’s Generosity  Boehm said he was shocked to learn he owed the hospital
$21,628. Now he’s offering to settle up for $3,000, he said. “I
am being asked to pay for it in full. It’s ridiculous.”  The hospital’s debt review committee will consider Boehm’s
proposed settlement on Thursday, Gwendolyn Mitchell, the
county’s director of public affairs, said in an e-mail.  In New Jersey, Astra Augustus did get a big discount, but
still faces financial difficulties, after “a sharp pain hit me
like I never felt in my life” in October 2011.  At the time, she was 64 -- eight months from eligibility
for Medicare. She had four operations over five months related
to urinary and kidney stones, according to her records. They all
took place at Virtua Memorial in Mount Holly, New Jersey.  After she received the bills, she asked for help and
received the 88 percent reduction. “It was generous of the
hospital,” said Augustus, who is retired. “I thought I could
pay it.” She said she realized she couldn’t after the
additional invoices from doctors came in. She made only one $400
installment to Virtua, she said.  ‘This Nightmare’  The hospital sued her in Burlington County Superior Court
Feb. 12. Virtua took the step because of a “broken agreement,”
said Peggy Leone, a spokesman for the hospital. “Virtua has
worked closely with this patient to help her in every way
possible.” A hospital representative is scheduled to meet with
Augustus this week to set up a possible new payment plan for
what she owes Virtua along with the separate doctor bills.  Medicare would have paid Virtua about $30,000 for the
treatment Augustus received, according to Richard Henriksen, a
hospital billing and reimbursement consultant in Minneapolis who
analyzed her bills. Augustus herself would have been personally
responsible for about $2,500, he said.  “If only I could have held out for eight more months,”
Augustus said from her home in Willingboro, northeast of
Philadelphia, where she lives on pension and Social Security
benefits. She turned 65 in July, and is now covered by Medicare.  “I’m in this nightmare, I’m in this mess,” she said.
“I’m not trying to skirt my responsibilities. But people have
to work with me. I don’t have the money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles R. Babcock  in Washington at 
 cbabcock1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  