-- UnitedHealth Sued by Over Mental Health-Care Access
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-03-11T22:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/unitedhealth-sued-by-over-mental-health-care-access.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  was sued by
the New York State Psychiatric Association and mental-health
patients over claims the insurer violated laws barring unequal
coverage for psychiatric conditions.  UnitedHealth, the second-largest U.S. health insurer, has
maintained “unjustifiably stringent medical-necessity criteria
and pre-authorization requirements for mental-health services,”
the plaintiffs said in a complaint filed today in federal court
in  Manhattan .  The company denied or limited access to psychotherapy and
other mental-health treatments for patients suffering from
conditions including psychosis, chronic depression, and anxiety
disorders, according to the 102-page complaint, which seeks to
represent all customers of the company facing similar
situations.  So-called parity laws of the U.S., New York and  California 
prohibit insurers from imposing more restrictive limits on care
for mental health than for other health-care conditions,
according to the complaint.  Individuals signing on to the suit include a professor at
the State University of New York, Stony Brook, a director of
marketing for CBS Sports Network, and a marketing associate for
a unit of  Sysco Corp. (SYY)   Internal Appeals  The Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer also violated the
federal Affordable Care Act by failing to continue to pay for
mental-health treatment until final internal appeals were
resolved, according to the complaint.  “We are committed to helping people with mental-health
issues reach long-term recovery,” Brad Lotterman, a spokesman
for UnitedHealth, said in an e-mail. “We recently received the
complaint and are currently reviewing.”  The plaintiffs are seeking damages and an injunction
against future discrimination.  The case is New York State Psychiatric Association Inc. v.
UnitedHealth, 13-cv-1599, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net 
UNH US <Equity> 