-- Vale Shelves Potash Venture in Argentina to Preserve Cash
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-03-11T21:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/vale-shelves-fertilizer-venture-in-argentina-to-preserve-cash.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the third most valuable
miner, mothballed a $5.9 billion potash venture in  Argentina  as
the Brazilian company drops projects and writes down assets.  The Rio de Janeiro-based company’s decision was
communicated to Argentina’s government today, according to an e-
mailed  statement . Vale’s shares rallied in  Sao Paulo .  Work at Rio Colorado, billed to make Argentina the third-
largest exporter of the crop nutrient, was suspended in January
so Vale could reassess the project in light of inflation,
exchange rate fluctuations and demands from provinces, Chief
Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said Feb. 28. Vale sought tax
breaks and partners to make the venture more profitable.  “Major miners are continuing to shed assets, especially
those that have greatly surpassed their cost expectations, and
slash budgets,” said Robert Verderese, a trader at Knight
Capital Group Inc. in  New York . “I would expect more to come
from Vale.”  Vale  erased  a loss to rise after the announcement 1.4
percent to 35.22 reais at the close of trading. The stock was
the most traded by value on the Brazilian Bovespa index today at
84 percent of its three-month daily average volume.  The project’s economics “are not in line with Vale’s
commitment to discipline in capital allocation and value
creation,” the company said in today’s statement. “Vale will
keep honoring the commitments related to the concessions and
searching alternatives that enhance the economics of the
project, to then evaluate its resumption.”  Prospective Partners  The company said it will give preference to the project’s
current employees if construction resumes.  Ferreira, who took over as CEO in May 2011, is selling
assets and cutting spending after a two-year metals boom led by
 China  stalled, causing iron-ore  prices  to slump 55 percent from
a February 2011 peak to a three-year low in September, before
rebounding. Reporting a record quarterly loss, he said Feb. 28
that Vale is poised to benefit from a price recovery and a
balance sheet cleanup.  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, announced
$1.47 billion of asset sales last year, including a  coal mine  in
 Colombia  and 10 large vessels, while putting projects on hold in
Canada and Guinea. The company announced last month $5.66
billion in writedowns after failed nickel, coal and steel
investments.  Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co. is one of at least two
companies interested in investing in Rio Colorado even if Vale
decides to exit the project, Carlos Molina, head of mining for
Mendoza province, said in a telephone interview today.  Third Largest  Mendoza Governor Francisco Perez had no immediate comment
on Vale’s decision,  his spokesman Pablo Bicego said by phone.  Brazil ’s only potash producer, Vale said Feb. 27 it had
spent $2.23 billion on Rio Colorado and completed 45 percent of
the project. The venture includes developing a mine in Mendoza,
western Argentina, the renovation of 440 kilometers (273 miles)
of railway tracks and the construction of a 350 kilometer-long
railway spur to transport the potash to a terminal in the port
of  Bahia Blanca ,  Buenos Aires province , for export.  With the capacity to produce 4.3 million metric tons, the
project would make Argentina the world’s third-largest potash
exporter, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said in July
after signing agreements with Vale to proceed with the project.  Vale said before putting the project under review that it
expected to start production in the second half of 2014.  BHP Billiton Ltd and Rio Tinto Group are the world’s
largest mining companies by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  