-- Veeva Said to Plan IPO as Cloud Startup Challenges Oracle
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-03-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/veeva-said-to-plan-ipo-as-cloud-startup-challenges-oracle.html
Veeva Systems Inc. plans an initial
public offering this year, people familiar with the matter said,
stepping up a challenge to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  with Web-based software
for pharmaceutical sales.  Veeva is meeting with banks including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and is
seeking a valuation of about $2 billion, or 10 times projected
2013 sales, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the talks are private. Revenue is on track to grow at least 50
percent this year as Veeva edges past Oracle in tools to help
drugmakers promote treatments to doctors.  Breaking away from a model followed by Oracle and others
delivering software via Internet to customers across varied
industries, Veeva and companies such as  Athenahealth Inc. (ATHN)  and
Dealertrack Technologies Inc. specialize in a specific business
like medical offices or car sales. While its share of the $22.3
billion cloud-computing market is small, Veeva has won over many
of the world’s top drugmakers.  “Veeva’s a shining star that came out of nowhere,”  Eric
Newmark , an analyst at researcher IDC, said in an interview.
“Veeva is No. 1 in pharma in the U.S., and they’re not far
behind Oracle for the global lead. They should pass them in the
next year or so.”  Word-of-mouth is key to Veeva’s success. Within the  drug
industry , its software has built up a following for the
ability to track prescribing habits and tailor pitches to
specific doctors. Mobile tools also help sales representatives
document samples given to doctors and obtain electronic
signatures needed to meet drug-marketing regulations.  ‘Great Living’  “Once you get in, there’s a power of incumbency,” said
 Peter Goldmacher , an analyst at Cowen & Co. “If a small guy can
become No. 1 or No. 2 in that market, they can make a great
living.”  Veeva spends just 25 percent of revenue on product
promotion, about half the percentage for  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ,
the largest maker of online customer-management software.  Lisa Barbadora, a spokeswoman for Pleasanton, California-
based Veeva, declined to comment on the IPO plans.  “In our particular market, our customers know us almost as
well as they know Microsoft Office,” Peter Gassner, Veeva’s co-
founder and chief executive officer, said in an interview.  Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff helped pioneer the idea of
delivering software as a service over the Internet, offering
sales-tracking tools used by more than 100,000 customers, from
donut shops to car makers. Veeva board member Gordon Ritter, who
once founded a company with Benioff, said the narrow focus of
his current venture offers a better profit model.  “ Marc Benioff  and other general-purpose cloud leaders won
the first round, but industry-specific companies will win the
next,” said Ritter, founder of Emergence Capital Partners,
which has backed both Salesforce and Veeva.  ‘Reasonable Approach’  Benioff called Veeva’s strategy “a very reasonable
approach,” in an e-mailed statement. With a narrow focus,
though, Veeva could struggle to sustain growth once its targeted
industry is saturated, Benioff said. Salesforce will post more
than $4 billion in revenue this year, he said.  Marketing costs that exceeded 40 percent of sales kept
Saleforce from posting a profit in in its most recent fiscal
year, a scenario that also played out at two general-purpose
cloud software companies that had IPOs in 2012 --   Workday Inc. (WDAY) 
and ServiceNow Inc. Veeva’s profit last year was about $30
million on sales of $120 million, people familiar with the
matter said.  Like Veeva, Dealertrak and Athenahealth were profitable in
2012. And all three devoted less than 40 percent of sales to
marketing.  Lilly, Novartis  Gassner co-founded Veeva after a two-year stint at
Salesforce. He quickly decided to target the pharmaceutical
industry, betting that executives in this heavily regulated
sector would pay a steep premium for software that simplified
documentation needed to avoid legal hassles.  One early customer was Publicis Touchpoint Solutions Inc.,
which contracts out salespeople to drugmakers. Marketing
representatives use Veeva on notebooks, iPads and iPhones when
they meet with doctors, said CEO Rick Keefer.  “We spend much more money with Veeva than we do with
Salesforce,” Keefer said.  Veeva, which also counts  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ,  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  among its clients, last year added a content-
management system to track clinical data and sales records.
Next, it will introduce an online service to provide more
information on individual doctors, people familiar with the
plans said.  The approach of adding more services, which Ritter calls
“layering the cake,” has been tried by many of Veeva’s peers.
 RealPage Inc. (RP) , has added tools to help real-estate brokers check
tenant’s backgrounds or offer 3D virtual tours. Dealertrack
started with a network to process  car loans  and later added
tools to track inventory, price vehicles and advertise online.  Execution Challenges  Executing such a strategy isn’t easy. Companies must invest
heavily upfront to create software smart enough to anticipate
users’s most arcane requirements, and to train customer service
representatives to step in when glitches arise.  When medical school drop-out Jonathan Bush created
Athenahealth in 1997 to improve how doctor’s offices get paid by
patients and insurers, he discovered that many transactions were
completed via fax. With no other option, he told customers to
have the faxes sent to Athena, which hired dozens of workers and
set up a call center. Later, he adapted his business with
software to handle the work more profitably over the Internet.  Athena handles tasks “that people who work in doctors’
offices hate,” said Bush. Now, Athena helps manage
appointments, track patient records and complete other common
tasks in medical offices. “If every doctor bought all five of
our services, our revenue would be $40 billion a year. That’s 10
Salesforce.coms but don’t tell Marc.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  