-- Venice Drowns in Sea of Big Boats, Blather, Sludge
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2013-03-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/venice-drowns-in-sea-of-big-boats-blather-sludge.html
The other week, water rose over the
cafe chairs in  Venice ’s Piazza San Marco. Even doughty German
tourists had to flee.  Until the tide receded four hours later, more than half the
city was underwater.  Venice is drowning in a sea of blather, sludge, big boats.
Thank sodden bureaucrats, special-interest groups and
politicians for doing little to save this wondrous town of
bridges, piazzas, palazzos and canals that emerged from the
lagoon in medieval times  Anna Somers Cocks has been monitoring Venice for decades as
Chief Executive Officer of the Art Newspaper and former chair of
the  Venice in Peril Fund . She was visiting from  London  to
present “Can Venice Be Saved?” as the annual Mellon Lecture of
the  World Monuments Fund .  We spoke over lunch at Bloomberg’s world headquarters in
 New York .  Hoelterhoff: The photos of Cafe Florian in San Marco are
shocking: 143 cm (56 inches) -- that’s a lot of water.  Somers Cocks: It’s officially a red alert. You can’t see
where the pavement ends and canal begins and can end up
swimming.  Hoelterhoff: Huge  cruise ships , the length of three
football pitches, sail past the Piazza San Marco to the port and
back. They’re scary: thousands on board, some playing
basketball.  Ban Ships  Somers Cocks: They are grotesquely out-of-scale and they
displace water into the canals leading off the Giudecca. Every
time they go past it’s the equivalent of a high tide. With
around 1,300 passages a year, that’s 1,300 extra high tides,
which is not good for the buildings.  Hoelterhoff: Doesn’t seem like anyone’s in a hurry to
change matters.  Somers Cocks: The extraordinary thing about it is that the
town council of Venice has finally come up with a management
plan, which is what they were meant to do when it became a
 UNESCO World Heritage  Site 25 years ago. But the words “cruise
ship” do not occur, not even once, as though it were not a
problem.  Hoelterhoff: There’s no way to ban them as some cities
have?  Busy Port  Somers Cocks: The head of the port authority is not very
happy with the idea of them not coming into the port of Venice.
They’ve invested a lot of money in developing it. It’s now a
super-duper, state-of-the-art passenger port, which makes a lot
of money, but nobody knows how much the Venice city government
gets from the ships.  It’s not transparent. Venice does benefit in the sense that
the port provides a lot of jobs. The airport benefits because
people fly into Venice in order to join the ships.  Hoelterhoff: Beyond the cruise tourists who often don’t
even bother getting off, how many people visit Venice?  Somers Cocks: About 17 million tourists come to Venice
every year, of whom only four and a half million actually sleep
over either in Venice or around the lagoon. Some 12.5 million,
maybe more, come just for the day.  Ticketing Tourists  Hoelterhoff: That’s as if the entire population of  New York
City  were to visit Venice in a year. What must happen?  Somers Cocks: You have to manage the people who come for a
day. If you have a booking system you can actually start
charging, say $30.  Hoelterhoff: Nobody enjoys visiting the city much these
days, never mind trying to live there. It’s so crowded. I used
to spend some time in Venice. One by one all the shops have
closed: the butcher, the baker, the green grocer.  Somers Cocks: Residents are being driven out. The
population of Venice in 1950 was around 150,000 people. Today?
Maybe 75,000, including the second-home owners.  Quite recently, they wanted to close down a number of the
departments of the hospital in Venice. You’d have had to go to
the mainland for medicine.  Hoelterhoff: The city seems a nightmare to maintain. The
brickwork is crumbling, slimy green algae cover the steps from
which you once stepped into your gondola. They’re mostly
submerged. The water level seems to have risen over the
centuries.  Somers Cocks: Yes. Subsidence and sea-level rise have led
to a mean water level that’s 12 inches higher than in 1900, and
for the first time ever it’s lapping the fragile brickwork
rather than the stone bases of the buildings.  The damp is
reaching the upper floors and rusting the iron tie rods that
hold the buildings together.  San Marco Mosaics  Hoelterhoff: One bright spot: the so-called Moses barriers
are finally getting built at the mouths of the lagoon.  Somers Cocks:  Yes. From about 2015 they will stop the
flooding events, but they can’t do anything against the
inexorably rising water level.  This is another incredible gap
in the town council’s management plan: the implications of sea
level rise for Venice are not even mentioned.  In the meanwhile, the 1,000-year-old masterpiece mosaics in
the lobby of the San Marco basilica are being affected by the
damp that has reached 18 feet up the walls.  Go to  http://www.wmf.org/  for a video of Anna Somers
Cocks’s “Can Venice Be Saved?”  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on  books  and Richard
Vines on  dining .  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Billy in New York at 
 dbilly@bloomberg.net . 