-- VeriFone’s Bergeron Out After Outlook Misses Estimates
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-03-12T20:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/verifone-ceo-bergeron-departs-after-outlook-misses-estimates-1-.html
VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  shares rose
after Douglas Bergeron was dismissed as chief executive officer,
following missed estimates for second-quarter profit amid
diminished demand for credit-card terminals.  Chairman Richard McGinn, 66, will become interim CEO, and
the board has formed a search committee to assess candidates and
enlist a search firm to help find a permanent successor,  San
Jose , California-based VeriFone said in a statement yesterday.
Leslie Denend was named interim chairman. Shares rose as much as
11 percent in extended trading after the announcement.  Bergeron, 52, is the second U.S. technology CEO to exit in
less than two weeks after missing projections, following the
ouster of  Andrew Mason  from the top job at daily deals provider
 Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  Bergeron, CEO since 2001, met with VeriFone’s board
on March 8, when the decision to replace him was made, said
Bergeron, who is also resigning as director.  “It’s serious business when a company misses its
numbers,” Bergeron said in an interview. “Clearly, we’ve been
extremely successful over the past two years, transforming from
products to services. In retrospect, it’s a very hard transition
to do cleanly as a public company. We had a miss on numbers.”  VeriFone’s stock tumbled 43 percent a day after issuing the
bearish forecast on Feb. 20. The shares rose 6 percent to $21.68
at the close in  New York , after advancing as much as 8.4
percent.  Challenging Environment  VeriFone, which makes makes credit and debit-card accepting
terminals that are used in retail stores, gas stations and
taxicabs, is facing economic weakness in  Europe , lower-than-
anticipated sales from customers in Brazil and an increase in
deferred revenue from clients in Africa and the  Middle East .  Bergeron, who will remain VeriFone’s largest individual
shareholder, said the company’s new CEO should pursue the same
strategy of generating more revenue from markets outside of the
U.S., and focusing on services.  “I’ll be a cheerleader from the outside,” said Bergeron,
who said he was considering a new career as an investor or
private-equity partner. “There’s a natural rejuvenation that
happens with new leadership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  