-- Vestas, Areva Tell U.K. Ministers Job Growth Threatened by Delay
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-03-11T12:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/vestas-areva-tell-u-k-ministers-job-growth-threatened-by-delay.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) ,  Areva SA (AREVA) 
and four other power-generation manufacturers wrote to ministers
saying the U.K. risks falling behind European peers and choking
 job creation  by stalling a decision on setting a carbon target.  The lack of a goal to cap emissions by 2030 from the power
industry in the government’s Energy Bill submitted to parliament
threatens to hold up investment in factories and push the U.K.
further behind rivals such as Denmark and  Germany , they said.  “This will slow growth in the low-carbon sector, handicap
the U.K. supply chain, reduce U.K. research and development and
produce fewer new jobs,” the manufacturers wrote in a letter
dated March 7 to Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ,
Business Secretary Vince Cable and Energy Secretary  Ed Davey .  Lawmakers in the ruling Conservative and Liberal Democrat
parties, as well as the Labour opposition, have called for a so-
called decarbonization target to be added to the bill. Gamesa
Corp. Tecnologica SA, Mitsubishi Power Systems Europe Ltd.,
Alstom SA and Doosan Power Systems U.K. also signed last week’s
letter saying a goal is needed to give certainty to industry.  Davey, a member of the Liberal Democrat junior coalition
partner, supported a target before opposition from Osborne, a
Conservative who wants to delay a decision until 2016.  “Postponing the 2030 target decision until 2016 creates
entirely avoidable political risk,” the producers said in the
letter, e-mailed today, reiterating comments made in October.  Tim Yeo , a Conservative lawmaker who heads Parliament’s
Energy and Climate Change Committee, and Labour lawmaker Barry Gardiner have drafted an amendment to the bill that would set a
decarbonization target for the power sector sooner than 2016.
Gardiner said in a Feb. 28 statement that they had gained the
support so far of at least three Liberal Democrats.  Parliamentary authorities have yet to set a date for a
third reading in the House of Commons of the Energy Bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  