-- Won Declines to One-Month Low on Geopolitical Risks: Seoul Mover
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-03-11T07:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/won-slumps-most-in-six-weeks-on-geopolitical-risks-seoul-mover.html
The won weakened to one-month low
as geopolitical risks escalated after  North Korea  threatened to
target the  South Korea ’s incoming defense minister.  Government
bonds  and stocks declined.  Kim Byung Kwan, a former general who commanded the U.S.-
South  Korea  Combined Forces, will be the “first target in the
great war for national reunification,” the North Korea-based
Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of Korea said in a
statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency
yesterday. Kim said in his March 8 parliamentary confirmation
hearing the South will respond to a North Korean artillery
attack by toppling the regime, Yonhap News reported.  The won fell 0.4 percent to 1,095 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in  Seoul , the lowest since Feb. 12, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency earlier touched 1,102.65, a
level unseen since Oct. 25. One-month implied volatility
for the won, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, rose 92 basis points, or 0.92 percentage
point, to 7.89 percent.  “The won is coming under selling pressure as the North
Korean threat prompts dollar buying,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a
currency analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul. “Some
exporters are waiting to settle their deals near the level,
which may provide some buffer to the won.”  ‘Swiftly Deploy’  The threats by North Korea follow the unanimous approval of
tougher sanctions by the UN Security Council against the
totalitarian state for its nuclear test last month. South
Korea’s Vice Finance Minister Shin Je Yoon said March 9 the
North’s impact on financial markets is limited and the
government will “swiftly deploy” a contingency plan if needed.  The won also fell as the yen weakened 0.1 percent today
against the dollar, after touching a 3 1/2 year low on March 8.
South Korean carmakers, shipbuilders and electronics companies
compete with Japanese rivals in overseas markets. South Korea’s
currency won has gained 23 percent against its Japanese
counterpart in the past one year to trade at 11.40 per yen, data
compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Fitch Ratings  cut its long-term foreign and local currency
issuer default ratings for LG Electronics Inc. today to BBB-from
BBB, citing the company’s weak operating margins and thin free
 cash flow .  The Kospi index of stocks declined as global investors  sold 
more local shares than they bought for a third day amid signs
that economic growth is weakening in  China , South Korea’s
biggest overseas market. China’s industrial output had the worst
start to a year since 2009 and gains in lending and retail sales
slowed.  ‘Downward Pressure’  Output in  Asia ’s biggest economy increased 9.9 percent in
the first two months and retail sales rose 12.3 percent,
government data showed March 9, trailing economists’ estimates.
New local-currency loans fell to 620 billion  yuan  ($99.6
billion) in February, the People’s Bank of China said yesterday,
lower than the estimates of 27 out of 28 analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey.  “We expect downward pressure on North-East Asian
currencies today, as they are more dependent on China outlook
than U.S. prospects,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a note today.
“Moreover, continued plunge of the yen and likely weaker yuan
fixing will put them under additional pressure.”  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due September 2017 rose
one basis point to 2.79 percent, according to prices from Korea
Exchange Inc. The Kospi index of shares fell 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  