-- WTI Falls From Two-Week High as Stockpiles Seen Climbing
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-12T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/wti-trades-near-two-week-high-as-crude-stockpiles-seen-climbing.html
West Texas Intermediate oil rose
for a fourth day as the dollar weakened against the euro. A
report today may show U.S. crude stockpiles climbed to an eight-
month high. Chinese refining fell to the lowest in four months.  Futures gained 0.9 percent in  New York . U.S.  crude
inventories  probably increased an eighth week in the seven days
through March 8, the longest run of gains since May, a Bloomberg
News survey showed before Energy Department data tomorrow.  China 
cut oil-processing by 2 percent last month, government data
showed today. South Korean officials said refineries importing
North Sea crude will receive smaller rebates for exports of
products.  “The euro has strengthened, and that often accounts for
higher prices,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at
Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London, who predicts that Brent, the
European oil benchmark, may advance to $112 a barrel this month.  WTI for April delivery rose as much as 78 cents to $92.84 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $92.75 at 12:46 p.m. London time. The volume of all
futures traded was 13 percent above the 100-day average. The
contract rose 11 cents yesterday to $92.06, the highest close
since Feb. 27. Prices are up 1 percent this year.  Brent for April settlement was up 33 cents, or 0.3 percent,
at $110.54 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The volume of all futures traded was 44 percent above
the 100-day average. The European benchmark grade’s premium to
WTI futures was at $17.78, having settled at $18.16 yesterday,
the narrowest closing spread since Jan. 31.  U.S. Inventories  WTI reversed a loss of as much as 46 cents as the dollar
weakened versus the euro, making commodities priced in the U.S.
currency more attractive as a hedge against inflation. The euro
was at $1.3046 as of 12:39 p.m.  London  time.  U.S. crude supplies probably increased by 2.25 million
barrels to 383.6 million, the highest level since June,
according to the median estimate of eight analysts in the
Bloomberg survey. Gasoline inventories dropped 1.25 million
barrels, the survey shows. Distillate stockpiles, a category
that includes heating oil and diesel, probably slid by 1.65
million barrels. The Energy Department is scheduled to release
the weekly report at 10:30 a.m. in  Washington  tomorrow.  “The market is very amply supplied as we approach the low
season for refining, and that’s going to be reflected in growing
global inventories,” said Andy Sommer, a senior oil analyst at
Axpo Trading AG in Dietikon,  Switzerland . “There’s probably
another $4 to $5 of downside left for the oil price.”  Chinese Refining  The average retail gasoline price in the U.S. fell 1.3
percent to $3.71 a gallon last week, according to the Energy
Information Administration Gasoline and Diesel update. It
declined from $3.759 a gallon the previous week.  Daily oil-refining volumes in the China, the world’s
second-largest crude consumer, dropped to 9.9 million barrels a
day last month, according to the China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing. That’s the lowest level since October. January
processing was at about 10.1 million, combined data for the
first two months of the year show. The nation’s crude output
increased 0.8 percent to 16 million tons in February.  South Korean refiners that import  North Sea  crude have been
asked to submit their views on proposed tax revisions by March
18, according to officials at the Korea Customs Service,  SK
Innovation Co. (096770) , the country’s biggest refiner, and the Korea
Petroleum Association, which represents its four oil-processing
companies. They asked not to be identified, citing department
and company policies.  Oil in New York has technical support along its 100-day
moving average, around $90.83 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted intraday declines along
this indicator for the past two days, signaling buy orders may
be clustered close to it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  