-- Yale’s Smart Gallery, Opulent Downton Show Worth a Trip
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2013-03-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/yale-s-smart-gallery-opulent-downton-show-worth-a-trip.html
Edwardian opulence was epitomized by
a luxurious ostrich-feather fan presented to Mrs. James de
Rothschild on her 1913 marriage into the banking dynasty.  To transform dung-spattered gray plumage into a fluffy,
white objet d’art required numerous artisans in Jewish
sweatshops, baths of acid, bleach and ammonia, plus diamonds,
precious metal and hundreds of rare blond tortoise shells.  “Edwardian Opulence: British Art at the Dawn of the
Twentieth Century” provides a lot of ostrich feathers, diamond
jewelry and electrical marvels, including tulip-shaped lamps,
phonograph recordings and jewel-encrusted servant bell pushes
from  Buckingham Palace  -- crafted by Peter Carl Faberge.  Don’t miss the film of little Prince Olav, looking like a
present-day Shriner, driving the world’s tiniest car -- made by
Cadillac -- through the streets of Oslo.  Extravagance, innovation and hubris permeate this
enlightening exhibition at the redoubtable  Yale  Center for
British Art.  Famous figures and lavish objects teeter on the precipice
of time.  We encounter flamboyant life-size portraits by Charles
Wellington Furse, John Singer Sargent and Giovanni Boldini, who
painted his colleague James Abbott McNeill Whistler.  There are
also sculptures, furniture and decorative arts.  Downton Abbey  According to the curators, the success of “Downton Abbey”
is partly responsible for renewed interest in that period’s
decadence, but I’m not sure we ever stopped being fascinated by
the age that went down with the Titanic.  An Edwardian immersion, the two-floor show should satisfy
most anglophiles. For some, its “Masterpiece Theater” undertones
could become cloying, especially in galleries overrun by willowy
maidens, Arthurian pageantry, bejeweled duchesses and high-
collared industrialists.  Yet throughout the exhibition, the era is presented as a
period of transition. There are portals to the past in the
gorgeous photographs Frederick Henry Evans took of cathedral
doors, stairways and tympana.  But strong modernist works by Rodin, Duncan Grant, Augustus John, J.D. Innes, William Nicholson and Walter Richard Sickert,
like battering rams, push forward.  ‘Societe Anonyme’  Just across the street is the renovated and expanded Yale
University Art Gallery.  Four floors of railroad galleries connect three buildings
of disparate styles and move you almost seamlessly through an
encyclopedic history of art.  Duncan Hazard and Richard Olcott of Ennead Architects
united the 1953 Louis I. Kahn Building, the 1928 Old Yale Art
Gallery and Street Hall (1866) in the $135 million project.  It is absolutely stunning -- a triumph of curatorial taste
and architectural savvy. Everything is close without crowding.  Roman busts linger, as if on leave, in a Neo-Gothic
setting, and African gods stand like messengers welcoming
Picasso’s Cubism.  Memories of Frans Hals reawaken in portraits by  Alberto Giacometti , and Fra Angelico’s candy-colored angels sing in
chorus with  Mark Rothko ’s shivering red lozenges and Vincent van Gogh’s heightened yellows in “The Night Cafe.”  The current show, “Societe Anonyme: Modernism for America”
is a treasure-trove of early modern art belonging to Yale.
Formed in 1920 in  New York  City by Katherine S. Dreier, Marcel Duchamp and Man Ray, the society was actually America’s first
experimental museum for contemporary art and Dada pranks.  Tightly packed, the exhibition includes masterworks by Jean
Arp,  Wassily Kandinsky ,  Paul Klee  and Fernand Leger.  Piet Mondrian’s heart-stopping “Fox Trot A,” a white
diamond divided by three black lines of various weights, is
itself worth a pilgrimage to  New Haven .  “Edwardian Opulence: British Art at the Dawn of the
Twentieth Century” runs through June 2 at the Yale Center for
British Art, 1080 Chapel St., New Haven, CT. Information: +1-
203-432-2800;  http://www.britishart.yale.edu .  “The Societe Anonyme: Modernism for America” runs through
July 14 at the Yale University Art Gallery, 1111 Chapel St., New
Haven, CT. Information: +1-203-432-0600;
 http://www.artgallery.yale.edu .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Elin McCoy on  wine  and  Greg Evans 
on  television .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 