-- Yen Strengthens as Lawmaker Says Party Will Oppose Iwata
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-03-12T21:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/yen-drops-to-3-1-2-year-low-before-boj-releases-minutes.html
The yen rose for the first time in
five days against the dollar as an opposition lawmaker said his
party will oppose  Bank of Japan (8301)  Deputy Governor Nominee Kikuo
Iwata, who investors see as endorsing monetary policy easing.  The pound reached the weakest level since June 2010 versus
the dollar and the lowest to the Australian currency since 1985
after industrial output unexpectedly declined. Hungary’s
currency weakened to a nine-month low against the euro and
plunged the most among 31 major currencies as lawmakers passed
constitutional changes some European Union members said
undermine democracy. The 17-nation currency erased losses
earlier against the greenback as oil and gold rallied.  “As far as the yen goes, we think a lot is already priced
in,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-exchange strategist in  New York 
at  Credit Agricole  SA, said in a telephone interview. “Until
you actually see new policies, we don’t see the dollar
strengthening very aggressively against the yen.”  The yen rose 0.2 percent to 96.08 per dollar after sliding
3.1 percent during the previous four days.  Japan ’s currency
added 0.4 percent to 125.23 per euro. The euro fell 0.1 percent
to $1.3034 after sliding to $1.2955 on March 8, the lowest since
Dec. 11.  Credit Agricole projected the yen weakening to 97 versus
the dollar by the end of the year.  Hungary’s forint depreciated 1.6 percent to 306.57 per euro
and 1.7 percent to 235.21 against the dollar.  Peso Strength  Mexico ’s peso rallied as short-term bond yields fell to
record lows amid speculation policy makers will keep benchmark
borrowing costs unchanged after cutting them last week.  The currency strengthened 0.8 percent to 12.4451 per
dollar.  The pound dropped for a fifth day against the dollar as the
 Office for National Statistics  said  industrial production  fell
1.2 percent in January. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists was for an increase of 0.1 percent.  The pound declined 0.1 percent to $1.4903 after sliding to
$1.4832, the lowest level since June 23, 2010. Sterling weakened
0.5 percent to 1.4435 versus  Australia ’s dollar.  South Africa ’s rand slid to the weakest in almost four
years versus the dollar after the nation posted a larger-than
forecast current-account deficit.  South Africa  The shortfall was 6.5 percent of gross domestic product in
the fourth quarter, versus a revised 6.8 percent in the previous
three months, the central bank said. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted it would shrink to 6.3 percent.  The rand slid 0.9 percent to 9.1695 per dollar after
weakening to 9.2122 per dollar, the lowest since April 2009.  The  European Central Bank  “should ease shortly,” said
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co. “Euro needs to decline to support
peripheral countries,” he said in a Twitter post.  ECB policy makers last week kept their benchmark interest-
rate unchanged at 0.75 percent while lowering forecasts for
economic growth and price increases. “In the short term, we in
the euro area have, if anything, declining inflation risks,”
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said in a  statement  today
when the Frankfurt-based central bank released its 2012 annual
report.  Inflation View  “You just had Weidmann saying he expects inflation to come
down,” Peter Gorra, chief dealer in New York at BNP Paribas SA,
said in a telephone interview. “Coming from one of the biggest
hawks out there, to me that’s a sign they can cut rates at some
point. Again, another negative for the euro.”  The Japanese currency might fall to 97.60, its lowest level
since August 2009, in the next three to six days after
decreasing past support at 96.55 yesterday, according to
Marshall Gittler, head of global foreign-exchange strategy at
Limassol, Cyprus-based IronFX Financial Services Ltd.  Japan’s Iwata may be confirmed even without backing from
the  Democratic Party  of Japan if Prime Minister Shinzo Abe can
secure the support of smaller opposition parties. The central
bank can end deflation solely through buying government debt and
doesn’t need to purchase riskier assets to meet its inflation
target, Iwata said today in parliament.  The DPJ will endorse Haruhiko Kuroda as central bank
governor and Hiroshi Nakaso as one of the deputy governors,
policy chief Mitsuru Sakurai said today in  Tokyo . Current
governor Masaaki Shirakawa will step down on March 19.  The yen has tumbled 8.1 percent this year, the worst
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 2.9 percent and
the euro gained 1.5 percent.  Japan’s currency pared gains to the dollar after rallying
as much as 0.7 percent, the biggest increase since Feb. 27.  “Our view is that the government has taken a strong stand
with its nominations and they have enough support to get them
approved,”  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at Barclays
Plc in New York, said in a telephone interview. “As a result I
think you’re seeing dollar-yen retrace from those lows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  