-- YPF CEO Says Not Waiting for Chevron to Explore Shale
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-03-12T20:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/ypf-s-fourth-quarter-net-income-rises-91-to-207-million.html
YPF SA (YPF) ,  Argentina ’s largest  oil
company  that was nationalized 11 months ago, is planning to
boost capital investments by 60 percent as it “aggressively”
explores shale, the chief executive officer said.  “We’re not waiting for Chevron” Corp. to develop shale,
CEO Miguel Galuccio told reporters at company headquarters
yesterday after reporting fourth-quarter profit that almost
doubled to 1.02 billion pesos ($207 million), or 2.59 pesos a
share, from 535 million pesos, or 1.36 pesos, a year earlier.
Galuccio said YPF and Chevron have been meeting weekly to hammer
out final details of their accord. The second-largest U.S. oil
company has almost two months to seal the deal.  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government
seized a 51 percent stake from  Spain ’s Repsol SA in April to
halt declining oil output and stem fuel imports that doubled to
$9.4 billion in 2011. YPF, which signed preliminary accords with
Chevron and Bridas Corp., is seeking more partners for a $37
billion expansion plan to develop the Vaca Muerta shale
formation, a Connecticut-sized area in southern Argentina that
contains at least 23 billion barrels of oil.  Fourth-quarter oil output fell 4.8 percent to 481,000
barrels a day from a year ago, gas production slid 2.7 percent,
the Buenos Aires-based company said in the earnings report
released after regular trading yesterday. The decline was halted
in November, Galuccio said.  Exclusive Rights  YPF’s  American depositary receipts  gained 4.1 percent to
close $15.37 in  New York , after gaining as much as 4.5 percent.
The ADRs had dropped 46 percent in the past year.  While the deal with Chevron is “progressing,” terms may
need to be adjusted because of a lawsuit faced by the  San Ramon ,
California-based company in Argentina, Galuccio told investors
today on a conference call. Chevron’s request to revoke a court
embargo on its assets in the country related to a $19 billion
award over pollution in  Ecuador  was denied by a judge in
Argentina.  Any deal to join with YPF in exploring the nation’s shale
formations must be preceded by a lifting of the embargo on
Chevron’s assets, Chairman and CEO John Watson said in a meeting
with reporters in New York today.  “We need access to our funds,” Watson said.  Chevron signed a deal with YPF on Dec. 19 that paved the
way for it to become the first major oil company to partner with
YPF since its nationalization.  Chevron’s Wells  Chevron plans to drill exploration wells in the Vaca Muerta
formation this year, according to a presentation Vice Chairman
George Kirkland delivered to analysts in New York today. The
acreage is separate from the drilling agreement being negotiated
with YPF and doesn’t involve the Argentine company,  Kurt
Glaubitz , a Chevron spokesman, said today.  Chevron has an exclusive right for four months to negotiate
final terms for YPF to transfer a 50 percent interest in Loma de
la Lata Norte and Loma Campana, YPF said in December. The fields
comprise an area of 290 square kilometers (180 miles) in
southwestern Argentina, YPF said.  YPF will need to raise $500 million in extra financing this
year, Chief Financial Officer Daniel Gonzalez told reporters
yesterday in Buenos Aires. This money, plus the company’s cash
flow, will be enough to finance an increase of 60 percent in
 capital expenditures .  YPF would only consider selling bonds if market conditions
improved, Gonzalez said.  YPF, which has sold 11.3 billion pesos of bonds since
September, needs $1 billion in financing this year, Galuccio
said on the call.  New Rigs  Galuccio said the increased expenditure budget may be
reduced to 50 percent or 40 percent if the company can’t find
rigs at fair prices. The company’s spent $3.3 billion on
investments last year.  “We will pay fair prices or wait,” he said.  YPF’s board yesterday approved 15 new rigs for the second
half of this year, Galuccio said on the call, adding that the
local rigs are outdated.  A budget increase doesn’t depend on Chevron, Galuccio said.
The company is targeting 130 wells in 2013.  Bringing another partner by giving them equity is another
financing option, Galuccio said.  “You will have news regarding this sooner than you
think,” he said.  The deal with Bridas is progressing as expected, Galuccio
said. The billionaire Bulgheroni brothers are “interacting with
their Chinese partners”  CNOOC Ltd. (883)   YPF’s partnership with  Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE5)  to drill for so-
called tight gas in Neuquen province is on hold after the mining
company said yesterday it will suspend a $6 billion potash joint
venture in Mendoza, Galuccio said today. If the gas isn’t used
for the potash project, YPF plans to pump it into one of its
pipelines for other industries.  “We’re planning to develop that area, with or without
Vale,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  