-- Hypo Calls EU Decision ‘Key’ as Austria Gives CEO 3 More Years
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-03-11T13:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/hypo-calls-eu-decision-key-as-austria-gives-ceo-3-more-years.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank International
AG, the Austrian lender nationalized in 2009, said a European
Union ruling on whether it gets more time to sell assets is the
key milestone it is facing this year.  The bank’s management board, including Chief Executive
Officer Gottwald Kranebitter and Chief Risk Officer Wolfgang Edelmueller, today received three-year contract extensions to
show a “sign of stability,” the Klagenfurt, Austria-based
lender said in an e-mail.  “The Austrian goal to do an orderly wind-down is
reasonable,” Wolfgang Nolz, an Austrian Finance Ministry
official, said today at a press conference in Vienna. The job of
the European Commission, the EU’s executive body, is to speed up
that process, he said, adding that the commission’s “message is
understood” by Austrian authorities.  Austrian taxpayers have so far subsidized Hypo Alpe with
1.76 billion euros ($2.29 billion) in capital. Public guarantees
of about 16.7 billion euros, mostly given by its erstwhile
owner, the Austrian province of Carinthia, still loom over the
bank. The European Commission has yet to approve the support.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  warned March 8
that an Austrian bank faced possible liquidation. Hypo Alpe-
Adria is the only Austrian bank negotiating a restructuring plan
with the EU, according to a spokesman for the European
Commission.  Since 2008, the bank has made several restructuring
proposals to the EU, with the most recent submitted in February,
Hypo Alpe Adria spokesman Nikola Donig said today via telephone.  ‘Key Milestone’  The bank wants to sell subsidiaries in eastern  Europe ,
 Italy  and  Austria  before liquidating its remaining assets. The
economic downturn in the former Yugoslavia and Italy means the
bank may need until 2016 or 2017 to fetch an adequate price for
the assets, which are valued at 1.5 billion euros on the bank’s
books, Donig said.  A “positive decision by the EU Commission on state aid
procedures is the next key milestone this year,” Kranebitter
said. “The journey on the path to reorganization isn’t over.”  The bank expects to reach an agreement with the European
Commission in the first half of 2013, Donig said.  “We’re in intensive negotiations with the EU,” Austrian
Finance Minister Maria Fekter said today at a press conference,
adding that she “hopes” additional government support won’t be
needed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  