-- Yum Brands Rebounds From Chicken Antibiotic China Scare
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-03-12T20:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/yum-s-china-sales-slide-less-than-estimated.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC
restaurant chain, said first-quarter same-store sales fell 20
percent in  China , less than analysts estimated, as its
reputation rebounded from a probe of a former chicken supplier.  Analysts projected a drop of 25 percent, the average of 20
estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix. In February, same-store
sales were unchanged at KFC and rose 13 percent at Pizza Hut,
compared with January declines of 41 percent and 15 percent,
respectively, the Louisville, Kentucky-based company said
yesterday in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Yum is trying to revive  sales  in China after former chicken
supplier Liuhe Group was found to have supplied meat with too
much antibiotics. Last month, Yum, which has more than 5,200
restaurants in China, pledged to ramp up safety and tighten
requirements for its suppliers in the Asian nation to help win
back consumers.  “It appears trends are getting better,”  Jack Russo , a St.
Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones & Co. who advises holding
the shares, said in an interview. “They clearly are doing a lot
in terms of marketing and advertising and trying to convince
consumers that it’s safe to go out to eat there.”  Yum rose 1.3 percent to $68.73 at the close in  New York .
The  shares  have gained 3.5 percent this year, while the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index has advanced 8.9 percent.  Ad Campaign  Last month, Yum announced it would begin an advertising
campaign in China to help coax consumers back into its eateries.
It is planning to open 700 new stores there this year.  The fast-food chain, which also owns Taco Bell, generated
51 percent of 2012  revenue  from stores in China. The Chinese
government said on Dec. 20 that tests conducted by a third-party
agency from 2010 to 2011 found eight batches of chicken supplied
to Yum by Liuhe had antibiotics levels that didn’t meet
prescribed standards. Yum stopped buying from Liuhe in August,
the restaurant chain said in its microblog.  Sales at KFC stores open at least 12 months fell 24 percent
during the quarter while those at  Pizza Hut  dropped 2 percent,
Yum said in the statement. China’s first quarter consists of
January and February.  Comparable, or same-store, sales are an indicator of a
company’s growth because they include only older restaurants.  Yum is  scheduled  to report March same-store sales for its
China division on April 10 and first-quarter earnings results on
April 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  