-- Zloty Declines on Forint Plunge, Weaker Polish Economic Outlook
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-03-11T16:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-11/zloty-declines-on-forint-plunge-weaker-polish-economic-outlook.html
The zloty weakened the most in
three days as a plunge in the Hungarian forint and lower
economic growth forecasts for  Poland  soured investor sentiment.  Hungary’s currency tumbled to a nine-month low after new
central bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy stripped two of his
deputies appointed under a previous government of some of their
powers, raising concern he will reshape monetary policy-making,
according to  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ’s CIB unit in Budapest.
Poland’s central bank cut its projection for economic growth in
2013 to 1.3 percent, from a forecast of 1.5 percent in November.  The zloty depreciated 0.3 percent to 4.1440 against the
euro at 4:57 p.m. in Warsaw, the biggest decline since March 6.
Yields on Poland’s 10-year government bonds rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.02 percent.  “We do not expect to see a sustainable recovery of the
zloty” in the “short term,” Thu Lan Nguyen, an analyst at
Commerzbank AG, wrote in a note dated March 11, saying low
inflation and weak economic growth “might refuel rate cut
speculation again”.  Poland’s central bank cut its forecast for inflation this
year to 1.6 percent from 2.5 percent projected in November, it
said in a March inflation report published today. GDP grew at 2
percent in 2012.  Policy makers cut the main  interest rate  by 50 basis
points, more than economists forecast, last week as  consumer
spending  plunged and the euro-area recession curbed exports. The
central bank will pause now after five reductions since November
took the nation’s benchmark rate to 3.25 percent, Governor  Marek
Belka  said March 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  