-- H&R Block to Sell Bank Assets to Exit Fed Oversight
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-07-12T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/h-r-block-to-sell-banking-assets-in-plan-to-exit-fed-oversight.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the biggest U.S. tax
preparer, plans to sell its bank assets to  Kentucky ’s Republic
Bancorp Inc. in an effort to exit Federal Reserve oversight.  The deal will reduce earnings by about 6 cents to 9 cents a
share on an annual basis and result in one-time expenses of 3
cents to 4 cents in the fiscal year ending April 2014,  Kansas
City , Missouri-based H&R Block said yesterday in a statement.  H&R Block hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last year to
evaluate options for its banking unit amid new Fed rules
requiring savings and loans to hold more capital. Financial-services firms including insurers MetLife Inc. and Allstate
Corp. also have retreated from banking after passage of the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act.  “The proposed rules would require us to hold significant
levels of additional capital, which does not properly align with
our capital-light business model,” H&R Block Chief Financial
Officer Greg Macfarlane said in the statement. “It is in the
best strategic interests of our company and our shareholders to
cease being regulated as a savings and loan holding company.”  A Republic Bancorp subsidiary will assume about $470
million in customer deposits if regulators approve the deal, the
Louisville, Kentucky-based bank said yesterday in a separate
statement. The companies also are negotiating an agreement under
which Republic would provide H&R Block-branded financial
services to the tax firm’s customers.  H&R Block advanced 61 percent this year through yesterday’s
close of trading.  Goldman Sachs and First Annapolis Consulting Inc. provided
financial advice to H&R Block, and JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised
Republic. Stinson Morrison Hecker LLP and  Morrison & Foerster
LLP  were legal counsel for the tax preparer, and Goodwin Procter
LLP for Republic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  