-- AB InBev, Heineken’s Exclusive Beer Deals Capped by Mexico
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-07-12T04:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/ab-inbev-s-modelo-reaches-fcc-pact-to-cap-exclusive-deals-at-20-.html
The Mexican units of  Anheuser Busch
InBev NV (ABI)  and  Heineken NV (HEIA)  must cap exclusive distribution deals
with small retailers selling their beer at 20 percent or pay
fines, the nation’s antitrust regulator said.  The brewers, which according to Barclays Plc control 98
percent of the Mexican beer market, reached an agreement with
the nation’s Federal Competition Commission after a three-year
probe prompted by SABMiller Plc, according to a  statement  today.
The deal excludes large convenience-store chains such as Oxxo.  The pact’s focus on mom-and-pop stores, restaurants and
small grocery outlets means the increase in competition will be
limited, said  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG. Mexico is
coveted by U.S. and European beermakers facing stagnant sales at
home. AB InBev, based in Leuven,  Belgium , accelerated its push
in the country when it bought full control of Grupo Modelo SAB,
the maker of Corona, last month for $20.1 billion.  “If you look at who’s going to make the most of the market
becoming more democratic, it’ll be SABMiller,” which could push
import brands including Coors Light and Miller Lite in the
country, Earlam said. “However, we would expect a slow increase
in competition rather than anything dramatic.”  AB InBev, the world’s largest brewer, and Heineken, the
third-largest, will be required to limit exclusivity deals to 25
percent of their points of sale in mom-and-pop grocery stores
and restaurants, falling to 20 percent by 2018, the competition
commission said. Mexican craft beers must be allowed in all
restaurants and bars, the agency said.  SABMiller Response  While the regulator’s acknowledgment that exclusive
contracts restrict consumer choice is “a positive and important
step,” the agreements don’t go far enough to open the beer
market,  SABMiller (SAB)  said in an emailed statement. A lack of
competition will continue “in large measure,” the world’s
second-largest brewer said.  “This agreement shows that both brewers acknowledge that
their exclusivity contracts constitute anti-competitive
practices with a negative effect on consumers and competitors,”
Armando Valenzuela, the head of SABMiller in Mexico, said in the
statement. “Unfortunately, the competition commission
considered it appropriate to keep allowing the existence of
exclusivities and, surprisingly, allowed discrimination against
Miller’s brands to be maintained.”  The brewer said it was analyzing the agency’s decision
before determining its next step.  Potential Fines  Small grocery stores along with bars and restaurants
represent about 60 percent of beer market volume, Barclays
estimates, opening a potential avenue for SABMiller as it seeks
a toehold in Mexico, the world’s sixth-largest beer market.
Violating the agreements could lead to fines of as much as 8
percent of domestic sales for AB InBev and Heineken, the
competition commission said.  Heineken’s agreement with the commission doesn’t include
contracts with Oxxo stores, affiliates, hotel chains or
sponsored events, the Amsterdam-based company said in a separate
statement today. Oxxo, owned by  Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB (FEMSAUBD) 
known as Femsa, had  more  than 10,700 stores in Mexico as of
March 31. Heineken  acquired  Femsa’s Mexican beer operations in
2010 in a stock deal valued at 5.3 billion euros ($6.91
billion.)  Convenience Stores  The chain represents about 15 percent of Heineken’s volume
in the country, Anthony Bucalo, an analyst at Banco Santander
SA, has estimated.  The agreements also exclude stores owned by Grupo Modelo,
such as Extra and Modelorama, according to Marcela Cristo, a
company spokeswoman. The brewer has about 5,500 company-owned
businesses that sell its brands, along with 980 additional
convenience stores, according to its annual report. Existing
contracts with outside retailers will be respected until they
expire, according to a statement by Modelo.  AB InBev’s shares rose 1 percent to 71.37 euros in
Brussels. Heineken’s shares increased 0.9 percent to 52.18 euros
in Amsterdam trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in  Mexico  City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  