-- Abenomics Leaves Japan’s Hinterland Behind as Cuts Bite: Economy
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-07-12T02:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/abenomics-leaves-japan-s-hinterland-behind-as-budget-cuts-bite.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
cuts to local-government subsidies are like trying to “wring
water from an old rag that’s been squeezed dry,” says Kazuya
Yoshida, a 27-year veteran of Shijonawate City municipal staff.  Abe pared payments to local authorities by 392 billion yen
($3.9 billion), or 2.3 percent, deepening decade-long cutbacks
for city and prefectural budgets hurt by falling populations and
dwindling revenues. While Abe has deployed fiscal stimulus at
the national level to revive  Japan ’s economy, a drop in wages
for provincial civil servants risks prolonging deflation.  “Where on earth can we find benefits from Abenomics?”
said Yoshida, 50, who manages disaster prevention in
Shijonawate, an Osaka suburb. “We’re increasingly worried about
our household budget. The Abe administration doesn’t understand
what’s actually going on” in local economies, he said.  With Abe pushing companies to raise pay levels, his
regional budget cuts are diluting policy makers’ campaign to
rekindle inflation. Four fifths of Japan’s 3.43 million state
employees work for local municipalities, with their wages
influencing private employers’ compensation decisions, according
to Yoshito Kan, 53, executive secretary of the Osaka
Confederation of Trade Unions.  “Local government wage setting is very important in terms
of the impact on the private sector,” said  Hiromichi Shirakawa ,
chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo, who
previously worked at the Bank of Japan. “Reducing local
government wages is of course inconsistent with the end-to-deflation story.”  Bearing Brunt  Those in regional cities have already taken the brunt of
cuts as at least six recessions in the past 20 years eroded
revenue. The average monthly wage for an official in Shijonawate
has fallen 20 percent in the past decade, to 299,500 yen,
according to the city. That compares with a 4.9 percent drop to
460,587 yen for Tokyo government workers.  “Wage cuts for local officials risk widening economic gaps
among regions and nailing already weak areas further to the
wall,” said Yasuo Yamamoto, a senior economist at Mizuho
Research Institute in  Tokyo .  Angst among local authorities hasn’t fed through to
political consequences for the ruling Liberal Democratic Party,
which is poised to expand its hold on the national legislature
in a July 21 election. Abe’s LDP, along with coalition ally New
Komeito, will probably win a majority in the upper house of
parliament, according to a July 4-5 Yomiuri newspaper poll,
helping ease passage of legislation.  Next Budget  Abe’s administration hasn’t said whether it plans further
cuts to local government subsidies in the next annual budget,
due in December.  The three-pronged policy prescription of Abenomics includes
fiscal stimulus, along with monetary expansion and structural
reforms. A 10.3 trillion spending package enacted in February
spanned reconstruction and disaster prevention in the aftermath
of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami to measures designed to
encourage private investment.  “For local economies, avoiding government wage cuts would
be more help than boosting public work projects,” said Motohiro
Adachi, an economics professor at Wakayama University in western
Japan, who wrote a book on the decline of Japan’s regional
retail industry after visiting some 300 provincial shopping
districts. “It’s not a wise policy to cut wages now, because
consumption is a leading force for Japan’s economic growth.”  Living Costs  The pain from constraints on pay will escalate should Bank
of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s monetary stimulus -- which
has driven down the yen 20 percent in the past eight months --
spark broader cost-of-living increases. With the bulk of the
nation’s nuclear plants shuttered, the weakening yen already
sent utility costs up the most in almost five years in May.
Excluding fresh food and energy,  consumer prices  fell 0.4
percent from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said.  Optimism that Abenomics will work contributed to upgraded
forecasts for the third-largest economy, and boosted the  Topix
index (TPX)  of shares 64 percent over eight months. Industrial output
rose 2 percent in May, while  retail sales  gained 1.5 percent.
Fifty-five percent of respondents in a Nikkei newspaper survey
published last month approved of Abe’s economic policies.  Faster growth would help support tax revenues as Abe
contends with the world’s biggest public debt burden. Last month
the prime minister pledged to halve the primary fiscal deficit,
which excludes debt servicing costs, to 3.2 percent of gross
domestic product by fiscal 2015, from 6.9 percent this year.  Postwar Record  Japan reduced the pay of central government workers by an
average 7.8 percent last year, the biggest reduction since World
War II, partly to help finance reconstruction after the 2011
earthquake. Even so, trimming public-sector wages further may
have less of a direct impact on the national economy than in
other developed nations because Japan’s state payroll makes up a
smaller proportion of the working population.  The government hires about 6.7 percent of the nation’s
workforce, compared with 14.6 percent in the U.S., 9.6 percent
in  Germany  and 17.4 percent in the U.K., according to data from
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  That’s little consolation for Yoshida, whose wife also
works for Shijonawate city to help support their two children.
He’s concerned that a further decline in wages would threaten to
erode savings used to pay the school fees.  “We can hardly keep up as it is,” he said.  Some colleagues are even borrowing to pay school fees or
reducing life-insurance payments as higher electricity bills and
mortgage payments drain their budgets, said Yoshida, who is also
chairman of the Shijonawate officials’ labor union.  ‘Breaching’ Autonomy  Among the 47 prefectures, 36 said they are considering wage
cuts, a central government survey published on June 13 showed.
The Abe administration is “breaching the fiscal autonomy of
local governments,” the national association of city mayors,
said in a statement on June 5. “It’s extremely regrettable that
the central government is ignoring all administrative cost-cutting efforts we municipalities have made up to now.”  “There may be some who hail Abenomics, but most people
outside big urban areas don’t have many stock investments and
are excluded from the benefits,” said Hitoshi Hazawa, who has
worked for Akita Prefecture in northern Japan for 30 years and
now chairs the local union of government officials. “Many
restaurants here are already empty because people are eating out
less, and wage cuts will only cut consumption further.”  Faulty Assumptions  Akita, 450 kilometers (280 miles) north of Tokyo and famous
for its rice farming and sake, will lose more than a third of
its population by 2040, the fastest contraction in Japan,
according to government data.  “It will take a while before benefits reach regional
economies,” Finance Minister Taro Aso said on July 9 after
visiting Oita in southern Japan and Iwate in the north during
the election campaign. While there are signs of improvement in
Tokyo, “you would be wrong if you assume the same things are
taking place in regions.”  Elsewhere in Asia today,  Singapore  reported its fastest
economic growth in more than two years, an annualized 15.2
percent expansion in the second quarter from the previous three
months. Other economic data due today includes inflation in
Italy, industrial output in the euro area and producer-price
numbers in the U.S.  Speaking ahead of  China ’s gross domestic product release
next week, Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said that he’s confident
his nation can achieve 7 percent growth this year, and a pace of
6.5 percent wouldn’t be a “big problem” for the nation. His
comments were in  Washington  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  