-- Abramovich Lacks Credit for Chelsea’s Soccer Upswing, CEO Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-07-11T01:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/abramovich-lacks-credit-for-chelsea-s-soccer-upswing-ceo-says.html
Roman Abramovich  hasn’t received the
recognition he deserves for turning Chelsea into one of  Europe ’s
biggest soccer clubs in his decade as owner, according to the
team’s chief executive officer.  The Russian billionaire, who bought the Premier League team
in 2003, “doesn’t get as much credit as he should” for shaking
up the sport’s established order, Chelsea CEO Ron Gourlay said
in an interview in  Brazil , where he was attending the FT/IFA
Business of Football Summit.  “I don’t think that worries him, it probably worries one
or two more of us,” Gourlay said. “It would be nice for him to
get more feedback on that, but at the end of the day I think he
just wants us to be pushing the football club forward.”  Since buying the west London team for 140 million pounds
($208.6 million) including debt, Abramovich has overseen the
most-successful period in Chelsea’s 108-year history. The Blues
secured three English league championships and in 2012 won the
 Champions League  to claim their first European Cup, the trophy
that Abramovich, 46, craved the most. They added the Europa
League title in May, lifting the tally of major prizes in the 10
years under Abramovich to 11.  “He put Chelsea back on the global map and we went from
strength to strength,” Gourlay added.  Abramovich’s arrival in soccer heralded an influx of
billionaire team investors prepared to absorb million-dollar
losses in pursuit of success. He used his fortune to challenge
teams including Real  Madrid ,  Barcelona  and  Manchester United ,
spending more than 150 million pounds on acquiring top players
within a year of buying Chelsea.  ‘Parked His Tanks’  David Dein , the former vice-chairman of 13-time English
champion Arsenal, said at the time that Abramovich had “parked
his tanks on our lawn and started firing 50-pound notes.”  Following his initial spree, Abramovich has spent about 700
million pounds more on talent and covered the same amount in
losses, according to club accounts.  Abu Dhabi’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan has matched
the Russian’s outlay since acquiring  Manchester City  in 2008,
while billionaires including Qatari Emir Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani more recently invested in French clubs. Monaco, owned by
 Russia ’s Dmitry Rybolovlev, already spent more than 120 million
euros ($157 million) on players including Colombian striker
Radamel Falcao this offseason.  “Nothing has changed except that it’s not 50-pound notes
now, but 500-euro notes,” Dein, the former vice-chairman of
 England ’s Football Association, said in a July 9 telephone
interview. “The genie is out of the bottle now and it will be
impossible to put it back in.”  Cost Control  The presence of such investors has had an inflationary
effect on transfer fees and player salaries, prompting European
soccer’s governing body UEFA to introduce fiscal controls aimed
at stopping teams spending more than their income.  UEFA’s analysis of the finances of about 700 clubs released
in February showed sales of 13.2 billion euros in 2011 were
eroded by 9.4 billion euros worth of spending on players and
salaries, a 43 percent increase over five years.  Those that fail to meet the criteria may be barred from
European competition next season. The legislation has spurred
clubs including Chelsea, which in November announced its first
profit under Abramovich, to seek new revenue.  Although the current regulatory environment means Chelsea
may not be able to spend as lavishly as in the past, Abramovich
is ready to pay for top players who can help mount a sustained
challenge for honors, according to Gourlay.  “Our whole business model is building on the success of
the football team,” he said. “It’s not everybody that likes
our model, but at the end of the day when people sit down they
can say we have delivered trophies and we’ve taken our football
club to an extraordinary level.”  Coaching Carousel  Chelsea’s success has come even as Abramovich, ranked 77th
in the latest  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , changed the club’s
manager 10 times, an average of one coach per year.  Last month’s re-hiring of  Jose Mourinho , a popular coach
with fans after guiding the Blues to their first English title
in half a century during his first spell, will probably end that
pattern, said Gourlay, who was promoted to CEO from chief
operating officer in 2009.  “It’s never been our intention to make as many changes as
we have, but love us or hate us, our model has worked,” he
said. “It’s the first time we’ve given any manager a four-year
contract. That’s a real statement to say we’ve gone through this
period and we want the continuity and we believe in Jose we have
the man to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  