-- Afren Founder Imomoh Says Oil Industry Needs Engineering Mentors
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-07-11T14:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/afren-founder-imomoh-says-oil-industry-needs-engineering-mentors.html
Retiring oil engineers should mentor
younger colleagues on how to develop ever-more difficult sources
of oil, a founder of explorer  Afren Plc. (AFR)  said during a visit to
Angola, Africa’s second-largest crude producer.  As little as two hours a month in volunteer training should
be written into job descriptions for older technical experts,
said Egbert Imomoh, 68, who is also the president of the
100,000-member  Society of Petroleum Engineers .  “We can take engineers with solid and proven practical
experience, people their colleagues can look up to as role
models, and allow youth to know there’s a huge pool of
knowledge,” Imomoh said yesterday at a meeting of the society
in Luanda, the capital.  Angola is at the leading edge of undersea exploration as
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  prepare to drill under a layer of salt
5 kilometers (3 miles) beneath the seabed off the nation’s
coast. They are hoping to prove the industry’s Atlantic mirror
theory that there may be huge deposits of oil deep beneath the
sea off west  Africa  similar to those across the ocean in Brazil.  Jobs growth for petroleum engineers may not keep pace with
the rise in new graduates, Imomoh said, noting the increase in
U.S. university freshmen from 1,388 in 2011 to 2,153 last year,
according to the  June edition  of the Journal of Petroleum
Technology. Students must be aware that crude prices may fall,
though the U.S. shale boom is “grabbing everybody,” he said.  Imomoh benefited from training programs at  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  in Nigeria, where he rose to be a deputy managing
director. He left after 36 years and in 2004 helped found Afren,
a U.K. explorer focused on Africa and  Iraqi Kurdistan  with a
market value of 1.47 billion pounds ($2.2 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  