-- AGL Delays Australian Wind Farm on Government Policy Concern
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-07-11T07:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/agl-delays-australian-wind-farm-on-government-policy-uncertainty.html
AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) , Australia’s largest
developer of renewable energy projects, said it delayed a A$550
million ($509 million) wind farm because of uncertainty over
government policy to boost investment in the industry.  AGL will defer hiring an engineering and construction
contractor for the proposed Silverton wind farm in Australia’s
New South Wales state and review its position in 2014, the
Sydney-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.  “This decision does not indicate reduced enthusiasm for
the project,” Nigel Bean, the head of power development at AGL,
said in the statement.  While Australia’s opposition coalition said in March that
it’s committed to the nation’s 2020 renewable energy target, it
called for a review of the policy in 2014 if it wins this year’s
election, which must be held by Nov. 30.  Australia  plans to
generate at least 20 percent of its electricity from renewable
energy by the end of the decade as it seeks to reduce its
dependence on coal.  Prime Minister Kevin Rudd’s return to the leadership in
Australia has sparked a surge in support for Australia’s Labor
government, with a poll showing the party has closed the gap
with Tony Abbott’s opposition. Labor rose to its highest level
on a two-party preferred basis in almost nine months and is tied
on 50 percent with the Liberal-National coalition, the Newspoll
published July 9 in The Australian showed.  Policy Review  Reviews of the renewables policy should occur every four
years, rather than every two years, to give investors more
confidence, according to a December recommendation from the
Climate Change Authority, which is advising the government.  Macarthur, the wind farm in the state of Victoria operated
and part-owned by AGL, obtained A$529 million of loans from
lenders on June 27 to help refinance existing debt and support
the project, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Silverton may become the largest wind farm in the southern
hemisphere with a potential capacity of as much as 1,000
megawatts, according to  AGL’s website . The first stage of the
project is expected to cost about A$550 million, AGL said.  AGL has invested more than A$3 billion in renewable energy
in the past seven years, making it the largest developer of
projects in the country during that period, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  