-- Thai Sugar Harvest Seen at Record Adding to Global Surplus
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-07-11T12:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/thai-sugar-production-seen-at-record-adding-to-global-surplus.html
Sugar production in  Thailand , the
world’s largest exporter after Brazil, may climb by 10 percent
to a record in the season from November as yields increase,
according to Thai Sugar Millers Corp. Futures declined.  Output will expand to 11 million metric tons, crushed from
the biggest-ever cane harvest of 105 million tons, Sirivuth Siamphakdee, a spokesman for the Bangkok-based company that
represents the country’s 50 mills, said in an interview. About
70 percent of output will be exported, he said, giving the
millers’ first estimates for coming year.  Increased supplies will add to a global surplus that pushed
futures to a three-year low yesterday, helping to curb global
food costs. A weakening Brazilian real has boosted speculation
that the biggest grower will raise exports, while a Bloomberg
survey this week showed that the Indian crop will top demand
after the best start to the monsoon in more than a decade.  “The surplus expected for 13-14 will continue to put
pressure on prices,” said Tom McNeill, a director at Brisbane,
Australia-based researcher Green Pool Commodity Specialists Pty.
“The market is strongly signaling to producers to reduce
production, not to increase.”  Futures are heading for a third year of declines, the worst
run since 1992, and sugar is the worst performer after coffee
and corn on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials
over the past 12 months. Prices that rose to 36.08 cents in 2011
spurred farmers from  Brazil  to  China  to boost planting.  Lowest Price  Sugar for delivery in October dropped to 16.19 cents a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. yesterday, the lowest price since July
2010. The contract traded 0.3 percent lower at 16.20 cents at
8:38 p.m. in  Singapore  today, reversing an earlier gain.  “Normal rainfall this year will help boost production in
the upcoming season to a record,” Sirivuth said by phone,
forecasting that the average yield may climb to 105 kilograms
per ton of cane from 100.24 kilograms. “We aim to increase
production yield by ensuring enough water supply, educating
farmers on growing techniques and reducing cane burning.”  Another global sugar surplus is on the way, bolstered by
good weather in  India  and Brazil,  Shawn Hackett , president of
Hackett Financial Advisors Inc. in  Boynton Beach ,  Florida , said
in a report e-mailed on July 8. The London-based International
Sugar Organization said on May 22 that world output will top
consumption by 10 million tons in the 12 months ending Sept. 30.  Output in India, the second-biggest producer, will total
23.5 million tons in the 12 months from Oct. 1, according to the
median of estimates from four traders, five millers and two
industry executives in the survey. That compares with a crop of
25 million tons this year and domestic demand of 23 million tons.  The Brazilian real weakened to a four-year low this week,
creating an incentive for exports sold in the U.S. currency. It
makes sense to produce sugar and have it for shipment, according
to Judy Ganes-Chase, president of J. Ganes Consulting.  Global  food costs  tracked by the Rome-based Food &
Agriculture Organization dropped for a second month in June,
declining to the lowest level since February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Poole at
   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  