-- Malaysia Holds Rate as Central Bank Targets Household Debt
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-07-11T12:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/malaysia-holds-key-rate-as-central-bank-targets-household-debt.html
Malaysia  kept its benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged for a 13th straight meeting even as economic
growth slows, as the central bank guards against risks stemming
from rising  household debt .  Bank Negara Malaysia  maintained the  benchmark overnight
policy rate  at 3 percent, the central bank said in a statement
in Kuala Lumpur today. The decision was predicted by all 19
economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News .  “For the Malaysian economy, domestic demand has continued
to support growth amid the continued moderation in external
demand,” the central bank said. “The sustained weakness in the
external sector may, however, affect the overall growth
momentum.”  The central bank is balancing a faltering global recovery
that cooled Malaysia’s growth to less than 5 percent for the
first time in seven quarters against resilient domestic spending.
Household indebtedness levels have been increasing at a
“strong” pace and averaged 12 percent per annum in the past
five years,  Bank Negara  said last week as it imposed limits for
mortgages and personal loans.  “Any strain in the external environment including the
slowdown in the growth of  China  could potentially be the drag in
terms of external trade going forward,” Patricia Oh Swee Ling,
an economist at AMMB Holdings Bhd., said after the decision.
“That said, domestic demand has been quite resilient, that had
provided growth the support during the first five months of this
year.”  Indonesian Contrast  Malaysia’s decision contrasts with that of Indonesia, which
raised borrowing costs for the second straight meeting today to
cool inflation pressures after the government raised fuel prices.  While Indonesia’s economy grew 6.02 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, Malaysia’s gross domestic product
rose 4.1 percent in the three months through March from a year
earlier, after a revised 6.5 percent gain in the previous
quarter. Malaysia’s inflation of 1.8 percent in May compares
with  Indonesia ’s 5.9 percent in June.  “While inflation is expected to rise in the second half of
the year due to domestic supply and cost factors, it is
projected to remain modest,” Bank Negara said. “Pressures from
global commodity prices are also likely to be contained given
the moderate global growth prospects.”  The central bank imposed a maximum tenure for mortgages and
personal loans last week, joining neighbor  Singapore  in
implementing measures to limit risks stemming from rising
household debt. Banks and other credit providers can now provide
mortgage financing of not more than 35 years from a previous
tenure of as long as 45 years, it said.  While the global economy continues to experience slow
growth and financial market volatility has increased
“substantially” as markets reassessed the direction of policy,
Malaysia’s private consumption is expected to remain steady,
helped by income growth and stable labor market conditions, the
bank said.  Malaysia’s industrial production rose 3.4 percent in May
from a year earlier, a report showed earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  