-- Manchester Clubs Compete to Sign Striker Jovetic: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-11T09:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/manchester-clubs-compete-to-sign-striker-jovetic-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Manchester Rivalry  Manchester United  will compete with Manchester City to sign
Fiorentina striker Stevan Jovetic, the  Sun reported .  United manager  David Moyes  is targeting the Montenegrin,
who has a 27 million-pound ($41 million) release clause in his
contract, after failing to convince Borussia Dortmund’s  Robert Lewandowski  to join the Red Devils, the newspaper said.  City has made it clear that it’s willing to meet that fee
for Jovetic and United is ready to match its neighbor’s offer of
a contract worth 120,000 pounds a week, the Sun added.  De Rossi Deal  Chelsea is nearer to acquiring Italian midfielder  Daniele De Rossi  after Roma agreed to sign Kevin Strootman from PSV
Eindhoven, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Roma, which wanted to have a replacement in place before
allowing De Rossi to leave, is asking Chelsea to loan it
Brazilian full-back Wallace, 19, as part of an 11 million-pound
deal, the newspaper added.  First-Option  Arsenal is prepared to use its first-option clause to bring
former captain Cesc Fabregas back to the London club this
offseason, the  Daily Mail reported .  Any deal to re-sign the Spanish midfielder if Barcelona
decides to sell him would be straightforward as the Gunners
would have first refusal on Fabregas at a fixed price of 25
million pounds, the newspaper added.  Fulham For Sale  Fulham owner Mohamed Al Fayed is in negotiations to sell
the London club to the billionaire owner of the Jacksonville
Jaguars National Football League team for as much as 200 million
pounds, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Shahid Khan , who acquired the Jaguars in 2011, would become
the sixth U.S. owner of a Premier League club should the
proposed takeover be concluded, the Telegraph added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  