-- Army Corps Probe Led U.S. to $1 Billion Contract Scheme
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-11T16:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/army-corps-probe-led-u-s-to-1-billion-contract-scheme.html
The case of Kerry Khan, who was
sentenced to more than 19 years in prison today, began with a
probe of fake contractor references and ended in discovery of
plans for a $1 billion contracting fraud.  Khan, 55, pleaded guilty in federal court in  Washington 
last year to masterminding a criminal enterprise that over four
years stole more than $30 million from a no-bid contract he
oversaw while working at the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers. He
was also in the advanced stages of controlling a $1 billion
contract under development at the time of his arrest in October
2011, prosecutors said.  “I don’t think any of us quite thought it would be of this
magnitude and scope,” U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen in Washington
said in an interview. “It just kept growing and growing.”  Based on cooperators, wiretaps and video recordings,
prosecutors secured 15 guilty pleas, seized 34 bank accounts, 20
properties, eight luxury cars and numerous Rolex watches in
busting up what they said was the largest domestic bribery and
bid-steering scheme in the history of federal contracting.  “We hear a lot about contracting officers who give
confidential bid information to certain contractors who then use
that information to write their bids,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Michael Atkinson, who led the prosecution, said in an interview.  “But it’s very hard to prove those cases up. Here, with
the wires and the cooperators, we had a front row seat to watch
that unfold,” he said. “It’s rare to have that real-time
investigation of someone trying to steer a $1 billion contract
and see all the pieces they had to get involved to get that
planned contract through the administrative process.”  Continuing Probe  None of those charged has sought a trial. The probe is
continuing with two unidentified government officials still in
the mix, according to court filings.  “I liken it to some of cases that we’ve seen on  Wall
Street  on the insider trading side of the equation where we’re
not attacking it as a financial crime, we’re attacking it as a
criminal enterprise,” Timothy Gallagher, the head of the
criminal division at the FBI’s Washington field office, said in
an interview.  The government sought 15 1/2 years in prison for Khan, who
pleaded guilty to bribery and money laundering conspiracy, as
well as repayment of $32.5 million in stolen funds. U.S.
District Judge Emmet Sullivan today called that recommended
sentence too lenient and ordered Khan to prison for 19 1/2
years.  Ex-Wife’s Tip  The case began with a tip to the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation in the summer of 2009. The tipster said Rajesh
Malik, then the executive vice president of  MED Trends Inc. , a
health-care  information technology  consulting company in
Rockville,  Maryland , used falsified performance references and
had a service-disabled veteran posing as the company’s owner in
order to win government contracts.  The information came from divorce attorneys for Malik’s
wife, who found the documents in the couple’s home. Malik is now
a fugitive, according to court records.  “The case came in as a very run-of-the-mill Small Business
Administration fraud involving a small contractor,” Atkinson
said.  Over the next year, investigators traced the false
references to officials at Nova Datacom LLC, a computer services
and consulting company based in Chantilly, Virginia. Through a
cooperator, they learned that  Nova Datacom  employed relatives of
Army Corps officials, Atkinson said.  Big Break  Investigators got their big break in March 2011 when Alex
Cho, the company’s chief technology officer and former
president, agreed to cooperate, he said.  Cho, who prosecutors said was close friend of Khan’s,
provided details of a contract-steering fraud run out the Army
Corps by Khan and Michael Alexander, another contracting
official, and through a prime contractor, Eyak Technology LLC,
Atkinson said.  Most of Eyak Corp.’s federal awards came through Eyak
Technology, or EyakTek, which won contracts valued at more than
$1.5 billion since the fiscal year that began October 2001,
according to court records.  The scheme involved a five-year contract with the Army
Corps under a program known a TIGER. Government agencies,
including  Homeland Security ,  NASA  and the Coast Guard, use the
TIGER contract to acquire information-technology services and
physical and infrastructure security.  Scheme’s Operation  Here’s how the scheme worked, according to prosecutors:
Khan would direct Nova Datacom and others to submit fraudulently
inflated subcontracts to EyakTek for equipment and services. In
most instances, the actual equipment and services were
delivered. The inflated amounts, which Khan and his conspirators
called “overhead,” were then kicked back to Khan, Alexander
and Harold Babb, EyakTek’s director of contracts.  Khan had authority to place orders through TIGER that
didn’t require competitive bidding. He was also the official who
certified that the products and services were received.  Cho also told investigators of Khan’s plan to target a new
contracting program called CORES, a planned replacement for
TIGER, according to court papers.  Prosecutors used Cho to make a video of a payment to
Alexander and record conversations with Khan and other
participants. They then used wiretaps and other surveillance to
monitor Khan and the conspirators.  Envelope Passed  In one video, Alexander is seen accepting an envelope with
$20,000 in cash from Cho in a vehicle across the street from the
Army Corps headquarters in downtown Washington -- a location
adjacent to the FBI’s Washington field office, which was leading
the surveillance.  As investigators watched Khan, they discovered additional
raids on the TIGER contract involving other companies, including
one contractor who stiffed Khan out of his cut of more than $3.4
million in “overhead” money, Atkinson said. Another contractor
stopped doing business with Khan because of increasing demands
to file completely fictitious work orders, he said.  Prosecutors quietly scooped up these conspirators and
secured their cooperation through plea deals.  Investigators also watched as Khan sought to maneuver the
CORES contract under his control. For Khan, CORES presented an
opportunity to continue doing business with the Army Corps after
he left government through a subcontracting company controlled
by his son, prosecutors said.  For that to happen, Khan first had to get the Army Corps
interested in the contract and then rig the process so Nova
Datacom would be selected as prime contractor.  Recorded Meetings  The FBI recorded meetings where Khan, Cho and other Nova
Datacom employees discussed different ways the contract’s
“statement of objectives” could be drafted to ensure Nova
Datacom won the bid. Nova Datacom pleaded guilty to conspiracy
to defraud the U.S. and bribery.  Khan also managed to put a co-worker he considered a
“trusted person” on the contract selection panel, according to
court papers. In July 2011, Khan put a $56,000 down payment on a
lease for a new BMW convertible for the person, who remains
unidentified in court filings. A month later, he paid more than
$23,000 to a home-improvement company for work on the
colleague’s home.  Prosecutors wanted to see if Khan would be successful in
his attempt to line up the contract, though delays in the
process combined other circumstances caused them to move in
sooner, according to court papers.  Sex Plan  In July 2011, investigators captured  text messages  between
Khan and an associate in the  Philippines  that they interpreted
as plans for Khan to have sex with a 15-year-old girl there,
prosecutors said.  An FBI agent and a military investigator broke up the plan
by visiting Khan at his Alexandria, Virginia, home, telling him
his associate was under investigation by foreign  law enforcement 
for sex trafficking, according to court papers. They told Khan
that given his top secret security clearance, he might be
blackmailed by foreign intelligence agents. Khan told the agents
that he would postpone his trip, according to a government
sentencing memorandum.  With Cho and Nova Datacom cooperating, Khan wasn’t
receiving his kickbacks and was owed $6 million in bribe
proceeds, prosecutors said. As Khan became more aggressive in
his demands on Cho, the FBI  rounded up  conspirators on Oct. 4,
2011.  Alexander’s cooperation began almost immediately, followed
quickly by Khan and Babb, according to prosecutors.  Strong Evidence  Their evidence was strong, Jeffrey Jacobovitz, a lawyer at
Arnall Golden Gregory LLP who represented Babb, said in an
interview.  “They had Babb on tape, they had others on tape,”
Jacobovitz said. “Once people start pleading in the case it
makes defense of the case that much more difficult.”  Khan in court papers seeks a sentence of 10 years in
prison, arguing that the government’s proposal is twice the time
that Alexander and Babb received. Khan’s lawyers,  David Smith 
and Jeffrey Zimmerman, didn’t immediately respond to e-mail
messages seeking comment on the government’s case.  “I have caused embarrassment and shame to my family, my
friends, my country and to myself,” Khan told Sullivan at his
May 17, 2012, plea hearing.  The Army Corps of Engineers didn’t respond to a phone call
and online requests for comment about whether the agency had
changed any of its contracting policies in the wake of the case.  The case is U.S. v. Khan, 11-cr-00276, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 