-- Arrium CEO Says Weaker Australian Currency to Improve Earnings
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-07-11T07:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/arrium-ceo-says-weaker-australian-currency-to-improve-earnings.html
Arrium Ltd. (ARI) , Australia’s fourth-largest  iron ore  producer, said a decline in the local currency
will boost earnings from this quarter and help its steel
business compete against imports.  Every one cent change in the Australian dollar against its
U.S. counterpart will probably deliver a benefit of between A$10
million ($9.3 million) and A$12 million on Sydney-based Arrium’s
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Roberts  told reporters in
Melbourne.  Australia’s dollar has tumbled 12 percent in the past three
months, the worst performer among the Group of 10 major
developed currencies. The Aussie gained 1.1 percent to 92.74
U.S. cents as of 4:57 p.m. in Sydney.  “It takes about three months for that type of benefit to
flow through when we have any material change in” the foreign
 exchange rate , Roberts said. “I would be expecting that benefit
would be more related to the business in the first quarter
onwards of this financial year.”  The weakening Australian dollar is aiding in the
translation of overseas earnings and lowering the price of
domestic steel as it competes with imports, he said. Arrium is
 Australia ’s second-biggest steelmaker.  Arrium, which generated  27 percent  of revenue outside
Australia in fiscal 2012, is “still very positive on China,
even in the current environment,” said Roberts, who became CEO
on July 1. China’s exports and imports unexpectedly declined in
June, stoking concerns over a slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.  The company’s shares climbed 5.5 percent today to 87 cents,
trimming its decline for the year to 4.4 percent.  “We are continuing to see very strong steel demand, and
that will flow through into iron ore,” he said. “What we are
seeing at the moment is something that is short-term.”  The company plans to carry out exploration work in  South
Australia ’s Gawler Basin at gold and copper prospects, Roberts
said earlier in a speech in Melbourne.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  