-- Maruti to Lead Slowest Indian Sales Growth in Four Years
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-07-12T12:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/maruti-to-lead-slowest-sales-growth-in-4-years-corporate-india.html
Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT)  and
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  are poised to lead companies in
reporting the weakest sales growth in about four years as a
slowing economy cools demand for goods from cars to appliances.  Revenue for 30 companies on the  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  may expand
3.8 percent from a year earlier in the quarter ended June, the
least in 16 quarters, according to Deutsche Bank AG. Bank of
America Corp. forecasts sales growth of 3.9 percent.  Sales at Maruti,  India ’s biggest automaker, fell in four of
the six months through June and steel demand in the world’s
third-largest user of the alloy rose in the April-June period at
the slowest pace in at least five years, official data show. A
slide in the rupee to a record will curb the central bank’s
ability to pare  interest rates  to revive an economy that grew
less than 5 percent for a second straight quarter.  “When you’ve got an economy which is growing at 5 percent
to 6 percent it is very difficult for companies to deliver
strong earnings growth,” Vetri Subramaniam, who oversees $2.3
billion in assets as chief investment officer at Religare
Invesco Asset Management Co. in Mumbai, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Revenue growth in aggregate is showing
signs of deceleration continuously and that remains a cause of
concern.”  Morgan Stanley estimates sales for the 111 companies under
its coverage, excluding state-run fuel retailers, likely grew at
3 percent in the June quarter, a record low, analysts led by
 Ridham Desai  wrote in a report dated July 4. CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets forecasts sales growth of the 106 companies it tracks to
slow to 5 percent from 19 percent in the year-ago period, the
brokerage said in a report the same day.  Metals, Cars  Billionaire Anil Agarwal-controlled Sterlite, India’s
biggest copper and zinc producer, may say sales slumped 35
percent to 68.8 billion rupees ($1.15 billion), according to the
median estimate of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Revenue at
Maruti Suzuki may drop 2.3 percent to 102.9 billion rupees in
the June quarter, according to the median estimate of 29
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. Maruti’s  shares  slumped 3.8
percent to 1,447.95 rupees, the most since Feb. 28.  Group sales at  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  may drop 3 percent to 325.7
billion rupees and  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the country’s
biggest power-equipment maker, may report revenue declined 4.2
percent to 79.8 billion rupees, according to the survey.  Shares of Sterlite, Bharat Heavy and Tata Steel are among
the  worst performers  on the Sensex this year.  Infosys Earnings  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  had the sharpest gain in six months after
first-quarter profit climbed and the software exporter’s sales
forecast in dollar terms beat analyst estimates. Infosys is the
first Sensex company to announce earnings. The gauge rose 1.4
percent to 19,958.47, the highest close since May 30.  Asia ’s third-largest economy grew 5 percent in the year
ended March, the least in a decade. Factory output unexpectedly
contracted in May, adding pressure for more government steps to
revive the economy. Production fell 1.6 percent from a year ago
after revised 1.9 percent climb in April, official data showed
after market hours today. Capital-goods production, a  measure  of
company expenditure on machinery, has shrunk in eight out of 12
months through April, according to the latest available data.  Lack of “capital expenditure is the biggest area of
concern, because for the economy to pick up you need a pick-up
in investment,” Jyoti Vaswani, chief investment officer at
Aviva Life Insurance Co., said in an interview. “The
initiatives the government has been taking off late -- the
reforms in power and energy sectors and clearing roadblocks for
environment clearances for projects -- should lead to
investments going forward.”  Wooing Investors  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram have changed policies since September to
spur growth and avert a downgrade of the nation’s credit rating.
Chidambaram is in the U.S. this week, extending efforts to woo
investment and help fund India’s record current-account deficit.
The nation is rated at the lowest investment grade by  Fitch
Ratings ,  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service.  While global funds pulled $1.8 billion from local stocks in
June, the most since August 2011, this year’s net inflows of
$13.5 billion is the highest in Asia after  Japan , data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Foreigners have been net sellers of Indian
equities in just two of the past 13 years, according to data
going back to 2000.  “While India’s fundamentals are far from perfect and the
policy remains challenging, these are known factors,”  Clive McDonnell , head of emerging-market equity strategist for
Standard Chartered Plc., said in an interview to Bloomberg TV
India yesterday. “The government is trying to push the envelope
on reforms. We are overweight on India within the  emerging
markets  universe.”  Inflation Risks  India’s budget and trade shortfalls have hurt the nation’s
currency, which slid to a record 61.2125 per dollar on July 8.
The rupee has depreciated 7.9 percent in 2013, emerging Asia’s
worst performance, making imports costlier and threatening to
spur gains in consumer prices, which have stayed close to 10
percent for more than a year.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao left interest rates unchanged in June for the
first time in four reviews, citing inflation risks.  “We don’t see the RBI rushing in to cut rates given the
other issues it has to grapple with, like the pressure on the
rupee and the current-account deficit,” Religare’s Subramaniam
said. “We are not expecting a cut” in the policy review on
July 30, he said.  Combined profits for the 30 companies in the Sensex may
increase 5.8 percent in the three months ended June after two
quarters of “near-zero” growth, Bank of America analysts
Jyotivardhan Jaipuria and Anand Kumar wrote in a July 3 report.
Still, there’s a risk of “disappointment in earnings” because
of a weak currency, they wrote. Morgan Stanley estimates net
income to shrink 1 percent in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  