-- Ashmore Rises After Assets Under Management Beat Estimates
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-07-11T08:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/ashmore-rises-after-assets-under-management-beat-estimates.html
Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM) , a U.K. fund
manager that invests in emerging markets, rose after the firm
reported assets under management that beat analyst expectations.  The shares  gained  as much as 8 percent in  London  trading,
after the company said in a statement today that it ended June
managing $77.4 billion, compared with $77.7 billion in March.
Sarah Ing, an Oriel Securities Ltd. analyst in London, estimated
that assets would fall to $74.3 billion, while Societe Generale
SA’s Michael Sanderson predicted a decline to $73.9 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ashmore defied a slump in assets for fund managers focused
on emerging markets, which has been triggered by investor
concerns about slowing economic growth and that developing
nations will be hurt as the U.S. Federal Reserve pulls back from
its record stimulus. London-based Ashmore said its clients added
$4.5 billion in the second quarter, with the strongest flows
into funds investing in currencies and corporate bonds.  “Market conditions were clearly more challenging toward
the end of the quarter, but  emerging-markets  fundamentals remain
intact,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Coombs said in the
statement. Assets under management were hurt by $4.8 billion of
investment losses, Ashmore said.  The shares rose 28.1 pence to 379.7 pence, or 8 percent, at
9:08 a.m. in London, valuing the company at 2.7 billion pounds
($4 billion). Ashmore has gained 5.5 percent this year.  Investors have pulled $13.9 billion from equity mutual
funds investing in  Brazil ,  Russia , China and India this year,
according to EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based firm
that tracks fund flows. The total accounts for 27 percent of all
inflows since 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  