-- Asia Stock Futures Rise as Stocks Set for Best Week Since April
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-11T23:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/asia-stock-futures-rise-as-stocks-set-for-best-week-since-april.html
Asian  stock futures  rose, indicating
the regional benchmark equities gauge will extend its biggest
weekly advance since April, amid optimism central bank stimulus
and improving economic growth in the U.S. will buoy equities.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , a
carmaker that gets about 80 percent of sales outside Japan,
climbed 0.5 percent from the close of trading in Tokyo. ADRs of
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., the world’s largest cargo and
freight carrier, advanced 0.3 percent. Those of BHP Billiton
Ltd., the No. 1 global mining company, surged 2.5 percent from
the close in Sydney as metals prices rose.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 14,525 in Chicago, up from 14,470 at the
close in Osaka,  Japan . They were bid in the pre-market at 14,570
in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index advanced 0.8 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.4 percent. Futures on the Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong rose
0.4 percent.  “Monetary conditions are still very stimulatory and
markets can get some comfort from that,” Chris Green, an
Auckland-based strategist at First NZ Capital Ltd., a brokerage
and wealth management firm, said by telephone. “Even though
there is recognition that tapering is on the way, the market has
got more confidence that it’s not touching the brakes, just
easing off the accelerator. That will be supportive for equities
for some time.”  Hong Kong  Futures contracts on  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index were
little changed. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S. rose 4.1 percent in New York
yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, advanced 8.1 percent through yesterday from a
six-month low on June 25 as concern eased that the  Federal
Reserve ’s signal to begin tapering its bond purchasing program
this year will hamper equities. The gauge climbed 2.9 percent
this week, the most since the last week of April.  The Fed has helped stoke a 32 percent advance in global
stocks over the past three years and suppressed  interest rates 
through its asset purchases aimed at bolstering the economy.
After signaling in May that the program could be reduced as
risks to the U.S. outlook abate, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said July 10 that “highly accommodative” monetary policy was
needed for the foreseeable future.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index traded at 13.3 times average
estimated earnings yesterday compared with 15.2 for the  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and 13.2 times for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. The U.S. equities benchmark surged 1.4 percent to a
record closing level yesterday as Bernanke backed sustained
monetary stimulus.  The London Metal Exchange LMEX Index gained 1.9 percent
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  