-- Asiana’s San Francisco Crash Seen Pushing Airline to Loss
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-07-11T00:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/asiana-s-san-francisco-plane-crash-seen-pushing-airline-to-loss.html
Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  may take a
charge of at least 20 billion won ($18 million) from the crash
of its plane in  San Francisco , and that will push  South Korea ’s
second-largest carrier to a loss this year, five analysts said.  Insurance payment won’t cover the loss of aircraft,
litigation and other charges and an erosion in passenger numbers
after the crash of the Boeing Co. 777 aircraft, said Cho Byoung Hee of Kiwoom Securities Co. in Seoul. The loss estimate
contrasts with a projected 20.8 billion won profit, according to
the average of 18 analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “A loss is inevitable this year because of the crash,”
saidKang Seong Jin, an analyst at Tongyang Securities Inc. in
Seoul. “They lost a plane, and then there are compensation
costs, which will be determined later.”  The Seoul-based company will also have to brace for lower
traffic this year as travelers switch to other airlines on
safety concerns, the analysts said. A loss for Asiana contrasts
with the optimism expressed by the  International Air Transport
Association  last month, when it predicted global airline
earnings will be 20 percent higher this year than forecast
earlier, led by carriers in  Asia .  Asiana’s reputation as one of the top carriers for service
-- honed over a quarter century since its formation in the run-up to the 1988 Seoul Olympics -- is in jeopardy after the
airline’s second crash since 2011. Earnings will be crimped by
rising litigation and insurance costs, and Asiana’s training
regimen will probably come under scrutiny as U.S. investigators
probe why pilots didn’t react to a critical loss of airspeed
until moments before the plane crashed into a seawall.  Capacity  “We are concentrating all our efforts on the ongoing
investigation,” said Lee Hyo Min, an Asiana spokeswoman. “It’s
premature to make any estimates on anything at the moment.”  All but two of the 307 people on board survived the July 6
crash-landing, with at least 26 still hospitalized. It was the
first fatal accident in the U.S. of a large jet since 2001.  Capacity at Asiana, with 69 passenger planes in a total
fleet of 80, may drop by 1.9 percent this year, said Park Eun Kyung, an analyst at Samsung Securities Co. in  Seoul . The loss
in seats and traffic may erode sales by 70 billion won and that
could have a bigger impact on operating profit, she said.  Asiana is expected to recognize the loss from the aircraft
in the third quarter, which will be bigger than her pre-tax
profit forecast of 15 billion won.  Insurance Premium  “Insurance premiums are likely to increase, especially
with the crash taking place soon after the cargo plane crash in
2011,” Park said.  Asiana’s previous disaster was the crash of its cargo
freighter in the sea south of Jeju island in July 2011. It
caused 200.4 billion won of damage, the airline said then. The
Boeing 747-400 aircraft was carrying two crew members and 58
tons of cargo to  Shanghai  from Incheon International Airport.  Park plans to adjust her forecast for earnings after more
details on the crash emerge. She  estimated  in her July 7 note
that the airline may post a profit of 11 billion won this year
and sales of 6.1 trillion won.  Asiana had a  profit  of 62.5 billion won in 2012, compared
with a loss of 29.9 billion won a year earlier. Sales climbed 5
percent to 5.89 trillion won.  Asiana and its bigger domestic competitor Korean Air Lines
Co. are already suffering because of the weakening yen this year,
which has reduced the number of Japanese passengers on their
flights. Things aren’t looking any better for the second quarter,
according to Park Sung Bong, an analyst at Hana Daetoo
Securities Co.  Depreciating Yen  “Drop in the number of inbound Japanese passengers may cut
yields on Japan routes by 20 percent,” Park said. “Asiana’s
second-quarter earnings may be below market consensus.”  Asiana’s Japanese routes bear the highest yields, followed
by  China  and the  Commonwealth of Independent States , according
to its first-quarter  earnings report . Passenger yields, the
average price a traveler pays to fly per kilometer, on its Japan
routes dropped 16 percent from a year earlier to 17.4 cents in
the first quarter, the report said.  The airline had the world’s eighth-oldest fleet, with an
average age of 12.6 years, according to a Bloomberg Industries
report in January. Air Arabia had the youngest at 3 years.  Carriers globally are likely to generate net income of
$12.7 billion in 2013, IATA said last month. That compares with
forecast of $10.6 billion issued on March 20, and represents a
67 percent gain on last year’s profit of $7.6 billion.  Airlines in all regions should post a profit this year, led
by carriers in Asia with projected earnings of $4.6 billion and
 North America  with $4.4 billion, IATA said.  “It was already a very difficult market for Asiana because
of the weak demand on its Japan services,” Kang at Tongyang
said. “The crash just made it more difficult.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  