-- Aussie Drops Below 90 U.S. Cents for First Time Since 2010
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-07-12T14:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/aussie-pares-weekly-gain-versus-dollar-as-rba-rate-cut-bets-rise.html
The Australian dollar weakened to
less than 90 U.S. cents for the first time since September 2010
amid speculation the Reserve Bank will cut interest rates next
month to a record low.  The Aussie has tumbled 11 percent in the past three months,
the worst performer among 10 developed nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar has
gained 4.7 percent, while the kiwi, the nickname for the New
Zealand Dollar, has fallen 6 percent.  “The broader-term Aussie dollar weakness is going to
continue,” said Michael Judge, a Sydney-based dealer at OZForex
Pty Ltd., an online foreign-exchange company. “If you see jumps
up to 92, 92 1/2 U.S. cents, that’s a good sell signal for the
Aussie.”  The Australian currency dropped 1.4 percent to 90.57 U.S.
cents as of 10:14 a.m. New York time, after dropping to 89.99
cents. It has fallen 1 percent this week. New Zealand’s dollar
fell 0.8 percent to 77.94 U.S. cents and is 1.1 percent stronger
this week versus the greenback.  Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show traders see a 75
percent chance the Reserve Bank of  Australia  will cut its
benchmark rate to an unprecedented 2.5 percent at its next
meeting on Aug. 6. The probability was 45 percent at the start
of the week. The key  rate  is currently at a record low of 2.75
percent.  Rate Bets  Rate cut bets have climbed in a week when reports showed
the  unemployment rate  rose and business conditions deteriorated
to levels unseen since 2009. In  China , Australia’s biggest trade
destination, data showed imports unexpectedly declined for a
second month in June.  “Consumption, confidence, it’s all heading south,” said
OzForex’s Judge before the release of the housing data. “If we
see a cut, we’re going to see a correction in the Aussie. But I
think 90 U.S. cents will hold.”  China’s finance chief signaled the government may tolerate
a slower pace of economic expansion than officials have
previously indicated.  “We don’t think 6.5 percent or 7 percent will be a big
problem,” Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said yesterday in
 Washington . “Please don’t forget that our expected GDP growth
rate this year is 7 percent,” Lou said, referring to gross
domestic product.  China’s statistics bureau reports second-quarter  growth  on
July 15, with a 7.5 percent from last year as the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  “The focus will intensify on the softening growth outlook
for Australia as the economy struggles to offset the slowdown
from the end of the mining and resource boom,” Credit Suisse
Group AG currency analysts Marcus Hettinger and Koon How Heng
wrote in research dated yesterday. Australia’s currency
“remains overvalued compared to our long-term fair value
estimate” of around 70 U.S. cents, they wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Marshall in  New York  at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  