-- Number 11 Agar Breaks Record in Ashes Test of Swinging Fortunes
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/australia-leads-england-by-65-runs-in-ashes-as-agar-sets-record.html
England holds a 15-run lead after
day two of the opening Test of the Ashes series against
Australia, which was rescued by record-setting teenage debutant
Ashton Agar.  Agar scored 98, the most runs by a No. 11 in Test cricket
history, and also teamed with  Phil Hughes  for the highest 10th-wicket total as Australia made 280 in response to England’s
first-innings 215. The host then reached 80-2 by stumps last
night to nose in front at Trent Bridge in Nottingham.  “It’s been a great day,” Agar, a 19-year-old making his
Test debut, said in an interview with Sky Sports. “It’s
probably the best day of my life so far.”  Australia lost five wickets for nine runs in the first hour
after starting the day at 75-4.  Steven Smith  was caught by Matt Prior off  James Anderson  for 53 and  Brad Haddin  was bowled by
Graeme Swann four balls later on one.  The wickets continued to fall as Anderson claimed  Peter Siddle  and Mitchell Starc, and Swann trapped James Pattinson
leg-before-wicket to leave the visitors at 117-9.  England then believed it had Agar stumped for six, though
third umpire Marais Erasmus ruled otherwise as television
footage was inconclusive. The teen responded to the reprieve by
combining with Hughes to give Australia the lead with their
final-wicket stand of 163. He eventually went for one big hit
too many and Agar’s 101 ball innings ended when he holed out to
Swann at deep midwicket off  Stuart Broad .  “We wanted to finish them off quickly, but all credit to
the two guys who stuck in there and gave us a hard time,”
Anderson, who led England’s bowling with 5-85, told  Sky Sports .  Root Caught  Agar’s 132-minute onslaught included 12 fours and two sixes
as he broke the No. 11 record of 95 runs set by Tino Best of the
West Indies against England in 2012.  England got off to shaky start, losing Joe Root and
Jonathan Trott to consecutive deliveries from Mitchell Starc in
the eighth over as the hosts slumped to 11-2.  Umpire Aleem Dar originally ruled against Trott’s first
ball lbw. The call then went to the umpire decision review
system and Erasmus overruled Dar, though the heat detection
camera that would have determined whether the ball hit Trott’s
bat first didn’t capture the ball.  Trott clearly believed he had hit the ball and was unhappy
as he left the pitch. Britain’s Press Association reported that
the England and Wales Cricket Board has asked the International
Cricket Council match referee Ranjan Madugalle to seek
clarification on the review process.  England captain  Alastair Cook  and  Kevin Pietersen  then
steadied the innings with a 69-run partnership to see out the
day’s play. Cook has 37 runs and Pietersen 35.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  