-- Lawson Targets U.S. Drug Stores as It Seeks Health Expertise
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2013-07-11T00:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/lawson-targets-u-s-drug-stores-as-it-seeks-health-expertise.html
Lawson Inc. (2651) , the second-biggest
convenience store chain in Japan, is looking to buy or invest in
drug stores in the U.S. and  Europe , using their expertise to
expand its domestic health-care business.  The retailer plans to open one-stop shops catering for an
increasing number of health-conscious consumers who eat
nutritious food and take supplements and drugs, Chief Executive
Officer Takeshi Niinami said in an interview yesterday. It hopes
investments in foreign drug stores would help it adopt their
expertise in its local  business , he said.  Lawson, which bought about 5 percent of pharmacy operator
 Qol Co. (3034)  last year, is strengthening its health-related business
to differentiate itself from competitors. The chain’s  profit  has
grown 50 percent over the past five years, compared with 5.7
percent for larger rival  Seven & I Holdings Co. (3382) , owner of the 7-Eleven brand, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We see more business opportunity if we can absorb the
know-how of U.S. or European drug stores and put it into
practice in Japan and  China ,” which face increasingly aging
populations, Niinami said.  Tokyo-based Lawson plans to expand sales of drugs and its
offerings of low-carbohydrate, low-calorie food for health-conscious customers such as diabetics among other healthy
options, Niinami said.  The company hasn’t started talks with any acquisition
targets and hasn’t decided how much to spend, Niinami said.  Lawson’s shares have gained 37 percent this year,  lagging 
behind the 39 percent climb of the broader Topix index and the
61 percent surge of Seven & I.  Lawson operated 11,249 outlets in  Japan  and 461 stores
overseas as of May. More than 100 were Natural Lawson stores
selling health-oriented food such as bento boxes with brown rice
and tofu tortillas. About 80 locations also sell drugs.  Seven & I, the world’s largest convenience-store operator,
had more than 50,000 outlets worldwide in March, according to
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  