-- Maybank Buys AirAsia X Shares to Deter Drop After IPO
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-07-11T04:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/maybank-buys-airasia-x-shares-to-prevent-drop-below-ipo-price.html
(Corrects to clarify total proceeds from the IPO in seventh
paragraph.)  AirAsia X Bhd.’s (AAX)  shares were
stabilized by Malayan Banking Bhd. yesterday, preventing the
budget airline from becoming only the second Malaysian stock in
a year to close below its offer price on its Kuala Lumpur debut.  Maybank, as the nation’s biggest lender is known, bought
19.5 million shares at 1.25 ringgit yesterday, matching the
initial offer price, according to an exchange filing by AirAsia
X today. The stock closed unchanged yesterday, before rising 1.6
percent today to 1.27 ringgit without any further stabilization,
Azran Osman-Rani, AirAsia X’s chief executive officer, said in a
phone interview.  “The timing is a bit unfortunate given the overall cycle
of investment into Southeast Asia,” Gerald Ambrose, who
oversees the equivalent of $1.7 billion as managing director at
Aberdeen Asset Management Sdn., said by phone in  Kuala Lumpur .
He said Aberdeen Asset doesn’t own AirAsia X shares.  Kuala Lumpur emerged as the world’s fifth-largest
destinations for share sales last year, surpassing Asian
financial hubs including Singapore, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Slowing economic growth and political protests from Brazil
to Turkey have since spurred capital flight from  emerging
markets . Speculation of reduced Federal Reserve stimulus has
also deterred overseas investors from holding riskier securities.  As stabilizing manager, Maybank’s investment banking unit
can buy as many as 118.5 million shares in AirAsia X within the
first 30 days of trading, according to a filing on June 25.  CLIQ
Energy Bhd. (CLIQ)  is the only one of 13 stocks that traded for the
first time in Kuala Lumpur in the past 12 months to close below
its offer price on debut, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Huge Volume’  “There was huge volume yesterday with 160 million shares
traded,” Azran said. “In that context, the 19.5 million shares
bought by Maybank was small.”  AirAsia X, the long-haul arm of  Tony Fernandes ’  AirAsia
Bhd. (AIRA) , completed a 988 million ringgit ($313 million) share sale.
It priced shares midway between the 1.15 ringgit to 1.45 ringgit
range marketed to institutions, even after demand for  Tune Ins Holdings Bhd. (TIH) , an insurance company also
controlled by Fernandes, has climbed 42 percent after falling
below its offer price in intraday trade during its February
debut, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Two of Asia’s four biggest first-time share sales in 2012
came from Malaysia as the nation raised a total 21.2 billion
ringgit last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Felda Global
Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) , a Kuala Lumpur-based palm oil producer,
lured $3.3 billion, making it the world’s third-biggest IPO last
year, the data show. It jumped more than 16 percent on its debut,
though is now trading 0.9 percent below its offer price for
institutions at 4.50 ringgit.  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) , Asia’s biggest hospital operator, is
trading 41 percent higher after raising $2 billion in a dual
listing in Kuala Lumpur and Singapore last July.  Westports Malaysia Sdn. and UMW Holdings’ oil and gas unit
are among companies that intend to mount IPOs in Kuala Lumpur
this year. Ranhill Energy Bhd., a power and water company, is
currently gauging investor interest to raise as much as 753
million ringgit, two people with knowledge of the matter said
June 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy in Singapore at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Patterson in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  