-- Hays Climbs Most in 3 Months on Signs Fee Outlook Is Improving
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-11T10:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/hays-climbs-most-in-3-months-on-signs-fee-outlook-is-improving.html
Hays Plc (HAS) , the U.K’s largest
professional-recruitment agency, rose the most in three months
amid signs that the outlook for fee income is improving.  The shares gained as much as 5.8 percent, the most on an
intraday basis since April 11, before trading 4.6 percent higher
at 99.40 pence at 11:40 a.m. in  London .  In the three months ended June 30 net fees increased 1
percent on a like-for-like basis from a year earlier, the
London-based company said today in a statement. In  Asia  Pacific
net fees fell by 13 percent on a decline in  Australia , while in
Asia they increased by 20 percent. In Continental  Europe  and the
rest of the world, net fees rose 9 percent and in the U.K. and
Ireland they grew 7 percent.  “The statement looks positive as net fees rose by 1
percent compared to company provided consensus of a 2 percent
decline,” wrote  Robert Plant , an equity analyst at JPMorgan
Cazenove, in a note to clients. The performance in the U.K. and
Ireland was the “main positive swing factor.”  The company said it now expects full-year operating profit
to be at the top end of analysts current estimates, which range
from 112.3 million pounds ($170 million) to 125.5 million
pounds. The stock has 11 buys, 11 holds and 1 sell, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jobs Market  U.K. jobless claims fell more than economists forecast in
May and a wider measure of unemployment also declined, providing
further evidence that an economic recovery is under way. Jobless
claims declined 8,600 from April to 1.51 million, leaving the
rate at a 2 1/2-year low of 4.5 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said last month.  Still, a slump in the euro area, Britain’s biggest export
market, and government austerity at home continue to weigh on
the U.K. economy. Continental Europe and the rest of the world
is the largest division for Hays, representing 40 percent of
total net fees.  “Looking ahead, we expect continued fragile and mixed
conditions,” Chief Executive Officer Alistair Cox said in the
statement. “Several markets are likely to remain challenging
and these will sit alongside clear opportunities for growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  