-- Baht Rises to 1-Week High, Bonds Gain as Outflow Concern Quelled
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-07-11T02:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/baht-rises-to-1-week-high-bonds-gain-as-outflow-concern-quelled.html
Thailand’s baht rose to a one-week
high and bonds gained after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the  U.S. economy  will continue to need monetary
stimulus, easing concern about outflows from  emerging markets .  Bernanke said yesterday that “highly accommodative”
policy will be needed for the “foreseeable future,” driving up
exchange rates and stocks across Asia. The Bank of Thailand kept
its benchmark interest rate at 2.5 percent yesterday, while
cutting estimates for 2013 economic growth and exports.  “With Bernanke’s comments, sentiment toward emerging
markets improved,” said  Koji Fukaya , chief executive officer
and foreign-exchange strategist at FPG Securities Co. in Tokyo.
“However, the basic trend has not turned around yet.”  The baht climbed 0.6 percent to 31.10 per dollar as of 8:56
a.m. in Bangkok and reached 31.04 earlier, the strongest level
since July 3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the exchange
rate used to price options, jumped 37 basis points, or 0.37
percentage point, to 7.65 percent.  Gross domestic product may increase less than 5 percent
this year, the central bank said yesterday. New forecasts for
the economy and export growth will be released on July 19. The
Bank of Thailand’s Monetary Policy Committee cut  borrowing costs 
by a quarter of a percentage point in May after the baht reached
a 16-year high of 28.56 per dollar in April.  ‘Hot Money’  “We think the main reason the MPC cut in May was the
pressure from hot money inflows,”  Tim Condon , head of Asian
research at ING Groep NV in Singapore, wrote in a research
report today. “With the panic subsiding, we think the hot money
will return and the government will counter with  capital
controls  rather than interest rates.” ING predicts the baht
will appreciate to 29 per dollar by year-end.  The yield on the 3.625 percent government bonds due June
2023 dropped one basis point to 3.72 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Thai local-currency sovereign notes have posted
a loss of 0.7 percent over the past month as Bernanke signaled a
possible end to monetary stimulus, an index compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  