-- Balfour Beatty Rises 11% on U.S. Orders, Improving U.K. Business
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-11T08:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/balfour-beatty-rises-11-on-u-s-orders-improving-u-k-business.html
Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY)  posted its
biggest gain in London trading in more than 4 years as Britain’s
largest construction company received more orders in the U.S.
and predicted rising profitability at its U.K. unit.  “The positive order book development in U.S. construction
has been converting into revenue, supporting our expectation  of
an increase in revenue in the second half,” the London-based
company said in a statement today. “The losses  expected in the
U.K. construction business in the first half are expected to be
recouped in the second half.”  The stock gained as much as 11 percent to 243.70 pence and
was up 4.7 percent as of 9:01 a.m., valuing the company at 1.6
billion pounds ($2.4 billion). Before today, Balfour Beatty had
dropped 20 percent since the start of the year, while the FTSE
100 index rose 10 percent.  The company, which has more than 50,000 employees and
generates half of its revenue in Britain, is benefitting from an
improving economy in its main markets. The  International
Monetary Fund  this week lifted its estimate for the British
economy in 2013. U.S. gross domestic product is forecast to
expand 1.7 percent before accelerating by 2.7 percent next year,
according to the Washington-based IMF.  Still, Balfour Beatty said some markets remain challenging
and that it has not seen a material change in business
conditions since May, except for a further worsening in the
environment for its professional services business in  Australia .  ‘Relatively Well’  The company said it’s on track to post full-year results in
line with management’s expectations, with the U.K. division
breaking even.  “Balfour Beatty’s trading update reads relatively well
given it has not announced a third profit warning and maintained
full-year guidance,” RBC analyst Olivia Peters said in a note
to clients. “Positively, Balfour Beatty has seen no further
deterioration in the situation at its U.K. construction
business.”  Balfour Beatty’s order book stayed at about 16 billion
pounds. The average net debt in the first half was in line with
management’s expectation for 300 million pounds, it said.  The company also said today it will enter the Australian
water renewals business after winning a local water network
contract. As a result, it will be able to bid for orders worth
about A$150 million ($139 million) over the next five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  