-- Bank of Korea Boosts 2014 Growth Estimate After Holding Key Rate
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-07-11T06:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/bank-of-korea-holds-rate-after-cut-in-may-to-boost-economy-1-.html
The  Bank of Korea  kept its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged as it boosted its forecast for 2014
growth to the fastest pace since the global economy rebounded
from a recession in 2010.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board kept the  seven-day
repurchase rate  at 2.5 percent, the central bank said in Seoul
today, matching the 18 predictions in a Bloomberg News survey.
Kim told reporters the BOK sees gross domestic product rising 4
percent in 2014, up from an April projection of 3.8 percent.  The upgrade came even as  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy
contends with a slowdown in  China , its biggest trading partner,
and a more competitive  exchange rate  for rival  Japan , after a 21
percent drop in the yen against the won over the past year. The
expectation for faster growth also contrasts with dimming
prospects for  emerging markets  that prompted the  International
Monetary Fund  to cut its global economic outlook this week.  “The central bank has turned pretty positive about the
economic outlook,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, an analyst at Daewoo
Securities Co. in Seoul. “The next move will be to the upside,
with a hike in the rate sometime later next year.”  The won rose 1.2 percent to 1,122.39 per dollar as of 3:30
p.m. in Seoul, propelled by optimism that the U.S. Federal
Reserve will sustain its stimulus even as it debates scaling
back liquidity injections. The Kospi stock index closed up 2.9
percent. Three-year  government bonds  yielded 2.89 percent today,
compared with 2.55 percent on May 9, when the BOK unexpectedly
cut the policy rate by a quarter of a percentage point.  Stimulus Deployed  The BOK’s unanimous decision today was the second straight
month it has left policy unchanged after lowering its rate. That
stimulus, together with an extra budget worth 17.3 trillion won
($15.4 billion), have brightened the outlook, Kim said.  “We’re upgrading growth forecasts as the economy will see
the benefit from our rate cut and the extra budget,” Kim said.
“What’s important now is to maximize the benefit of the
existing policies already taken,” he said when asked if
additional steps were needed to boost the economy.  The BOK raised its 2013 GDP forecast to a gain of 2.8
percent, compared with 2.6 percent in April.  Tapering of U.S. quantitative easing and a slowdown in
 China’s economy , the world’s second largest, add to risks to
global growth, the BOK statement said. The central bank will use
appropriate policy tools to ensure stability in financial
markets if needed, Kim said.  Household Debt  Meantime, concern at reduced Fed liquidity injections
contributed to a gain in South Korean government bond yields in
recent weeks, raising the prospect of higher borrowing costs for
households with near-record debt.  The BOK lowered its inflation forecast for this year to 1.7
percent, below its target range of 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent.
In April it projected 2013 inflation of 2.3 percent.  The latest outlook brings the central bank’s view closer
into line with that of the government, which on June 27 boosted
its growth forecast to 2.7 percent for 2013 from 2.3 percent in
March, citing stimulus from the extra budget and the May rate
cut.  The upward revisions to the BOK’s growth estimates support
HSBC Holdings Plc’s view that the central bank probably won’t
lower rates further, HSBC economist Ronald Man said in a
research note.  “Even so, we remain cautious on the growth outlook given
activity in key export markets is expected to stay weak and
fiscal support at home is set to diminish,” Man said.  World economic growth will struggle to accelerate this year
as a U.S. expansion weakens, China’s economy levels off and
 Europe ’s recession deepens, the IMF said on July 9. The IMF
lowered its global forecast for 2013 to 3.1 percent from an
April estimate of 3.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  