-- Bernanke, G-20, Dell, China GDP, Google: Week July 13-20
-- B y   D i c k   S c h u m a c h e r ,   G r e g   M i l e s   a n d   J i m   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-07-15T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/bernanke-g-20-dell-china-gdp-google-week-ahead-july-13-20.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will testify in the coming week to two U.S.
Congressional committees about monetary policy and the outlook
for the economy.  G-20 central bank governors and finance ministers will meet
in Moscow to discuss economic stimulus programs and tax evasion.  China’s gross domestic product growth probably slowed to
7.5 percent in the second quarter, while U.S. retail sales are
likely to have gained for a third straight month in June.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  shareholders will vote on the proposed $24.4
billion buyout of the personal-computer maker by founder  Michael Dell  and Silver Lake Management LLC.  Google Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , International
Business Machines Corp. and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  will be among
companies releasing results.  MONDAY, JULY 15  -- China second-quarter gross domestic product , with economists
forecasting a slowdown to 7.5 percent growth from a year
earlier, the weakest pace since the third quarter of 2012.
Growth was 7.7 percent in the first quarter. The government will
also give figures for  industrial output , retail sales and fixed
asset investment, as economists assess the risk of a deeper
slump. Premier Li Keqiang is grappling with sustaining the
nation’s expansion while reining in credit growth, limiting
property speculation and restructuring the economy. 10:00 in
Beijing (7/14 22:00 EDT).  -- U.S. retail sales  probably increased for a third straight
month in June, according to a Bloomberg survey, indicating
consumers will help drive the economy in the second half of the
year. Consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of the U.S.
economy. The Commerce Department reports at 08:30 in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Miles in  New York  at 
 gmiles1@bloomberg.net ;
Dick Schumacher in London at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net ;
Jim McDonald in Tokyo at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  