-- Boeing Sees Aircraft-Backed Bond Issues Doubling to $30 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-07-11T02:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/boeing-sees-aircraft-backed-bond-issues-doubling-to-30-billion.html
Aircraft buyers’ issuance of bonds
backed by planes will double to about $30 billion next year, as
banks withdraw funding because of new lending rules and
governments limit export credit,  Boeing Co. (BA)  said.  Aircraft-backed bonds will fund about 15 percent of plane
deliveries worldwide this year and rise to a “high twenties”
percentage of the market in 2014, Kostya Zolotusky, Boeing’s
managing director of capital markets and leasing, said in Sydney
yesterday. The planemaker’s forecast of next year’s debt
issuance is equivalent to about 39 percent of such bonds issued
globally since 1987, based on JPMorgan Chase & Co. research.  British Airways Plc and Air Canada sold bonds backed by
jets this year as carriers seek new ways to finance their fleet
expansion amid shrinking sources of traditional funding. The
industry  needs  $4 trillion to $5 trillion by 2031 to buy about
40,000 new planes required by growing demand from emerging
economies, the International Air Transport Association said.  New issues of the aircraft-backed bonds “will probably
continue to double for a couple of years,” hitting $30 billion
in 2014, Zolotusky said. “Airlines as a whole are not good
credits but the demand for these assets has been really good.”  Funding for delivery of aircraft worldwide will reach $104
billion in 2013 and rise to $132 billion in 2017, according to
Boeing.  British Airways raised $927 million last month from its
first issue of such bonds. The debt, known as enhanced equipment
trust certificates, was backed by six Airbus SAS A320-200s, two
Boeing B777-300ERs, and six Boeing B787-8s.  Air Canada (AC/A)  sold $424
million of the bonds in April.  U.S., China  Rising interest rates as the U.S. economy improves, and a
cash crunch in China which drove interbank rates to a record
high in June, won’t slow the availability of finance for
aircraft purchases, Zolotusky told reporters at a briefing.  A 1 percentage point increase in the cost of financing a
Boeing 777 “is equivalent to oil going up in price by $3 a
barrel” in terms of airlines’ total expenses, he said. That
makes carriers relatively insensitive to rising interest rates,
he said.  “Oil has moved up well over $70 a barrel and the airlines
didn’t turn off the lights, didn’t turn off their operations,
and showed their most profitable year when it was over $100,”
he said.  In  China , airlines are working according to five-year plans
which are backed by the government and state-controlled banks,
making a funding drought unlikely, Zolotusky said.  Basel III  “Right now we are feeling pretty good about how the system
is working, in terms of Chinese banks financing deliveries to
Chinese airlines,” he said.  A greater concern is the withdrawal of funding from
commercial banks as they limit lending in line with the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision’s 2010 revision of minimum
capital levels, known as Basel III. Banks will provide about $29
billion to finance about 28 percent of aircraft deliveries this
year, according to Boeing.  Government export credit agencies, which stepped in to
finance aircraft purchases after the 2008 credit crisis froze
capital markets, are also cutting back. Funding from export-import banks this year will be lower than Boeing’s initial
forecast, at about 20 percent of the $104 billion total,
compared with about 30 percent during 2012, Zolotusky said.  Bonds are “the only market that has enough liquidity that
can absorb lower capacities in the other two markets,”
Zolotusky said, referring to the decline in bank and government
financing.  Airlines face a challenge in funding fleet growth over the
coming decades, according to IATA, as returns on investment are
the lowest among 29 industries surveyed and fall consistently
short of the cost of funds.  The $2.50 per-passenger journey that airlines earned in
2012 was equivalent to the price of a cup of coffee and will
rise to $4 this year, enough to buy a sandwich, IATA Director
General Tony Tyler said in a July 3 speech in Sydney. That’s
“nowhere near the returns that our investors expect,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  