-- BP Spill Medical Benefits Accord Unfair, Plaintiffs Say
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-07-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/bp-spill-medical-benefits-accord-unfair-plaintiffs-say.html
The medical benefits portion of  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s settlement over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico  oil spill  is
“substantively unfair” and approval of the accord should be
reversed, lawyers opposing the agreement told an appeals court.  The settlement, reached last year as part of a resolution
of most private-party claims, provides compensation for possible
physical injuries related to the spill or the cleanup. It also
requires medical monitoring of possible effects from the
exposure.  After U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  gave
final approval to the accord in January, multiple plaintiffs
appealed, contending it severely limits payments to victims with
substantial injuries and such claims can’t be resolved as a
class, or group, action.  Legal requirements for class actions “preclude
certification of this diffuse and disparate class that includes
members who have manifested injury, will later manifest injury
and will never manifest injury,” lawyers for the objectors said
in a filing yesterday with the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New
Orleans. The settlement is “substantively unfair and
troubling.”  Barbier found no merit in the objections when he granted
final approval Jan. 11.  ‘No Assurance’  Without this settlement, “plaintiffs face significant
further expenses in time, money, and resources -- with no
assurance of recovery,” the judge wrote in his 91-page
decision. Barbier certified a class for the purposes of the
settlement.  Scott Dean , a spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment on the filing. David Falkenstein, a spokesman for the
committee of spill-victims’ lawyers who negotiated the accord,
didn’t immediately respond to phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the filing.  Barbier in December approved the economic loss and property
damage portion of the settlement, which resolved most private
plaintiffs’ claims related to the explosion of the  Deepwater
Horizon  oil rig and subsequent spill. That approval has also
been appealed.  The blowout and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig in April 2010 killed 11 workers and sent millions
of barrels of crude leaking into the gulf. The accident prompted
hundreds of lawsuits against BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier,
Switzerland-based owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services.  Private Claims  BP’s proposed partial settlement of private claims from the
largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history was reached in March
2012, days before a trial on liability for the spill was set to
begin. The settlement didn’t cover suits brought by the U.S.
government and the states of Alabama and  Louisiana , or
plaintiffs’ claims against co-defendants.  BP initially estimated the accord to be worth at least $7.8
billion and announced this year that the cost could be
substantially higher because of what the company considers a
flawed interpretation of claims by the settlement’s
administrator. The settlement doesn’t have a cap on potential
damages. BP is appealing Barbier’s ruling upholding the claims
administrator’s interpretation of the settlement.  The medical benefits settlement resolves the claims of
clean-up workers and residents of certain Gulf Coast beachfront
and wetlands areas who contend they sustained personal injuries
related to exposure to oil spilled or to chemical dispersants
used during the clean-up efforts, according to court papers.  Medical Monitoring  The agreement provides for medical monitoring of possible
effects from the exposure, as well as “preservation of class
members’ rights to sue BP for compensatory damages for physical
conditions that manifest at a later date,” the company said in
an August filing seeking approval of the pact.  The settlement underpays certain claims and treats all
injuries as substantially the same, lawyers objecting to the
agreement said in their filing yesterday. The requirements for
class actions don’t allow for such treatment of personal injury
claims, they said.  “Here, predominance is simply impossible to meet,” the
lawyers said. “Someone injured from the drilling platform
accident has a completely different cause of action from someone
suffering injury from the chemicals used in the cleanup: not
just the completely different damages calculation and potential
individualized issues of specific causation, but a completely
different theory of negligence or punitive damages, and a
completely different theory of general causation.”  The appeal is In Re: Deepwater Horizon -- Appeals of the
Medical Benefits Class Action, 13-30221, U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans). The lower court
case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the
 Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  