-- Brain Trauma Surge Among Youth Athletes Raises CDC Alarm
-- B y   S a m u e l   A d a m s
-- 2013-07-11T20:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/brain-trauma-surge-among-youth-athletes-raises-cdc-alarm.html
A surge in sports-related brain
injuries among the youth is pushing U.S. health officials to
call for public policy changes after similar safety efforts
helped reduce head-trauma deaths from motor vehicle accidents.  A 40 percent drop since 1980 in traumatic brain injury
deaths from car crashes can serve as an example for initiatives
that target contact sports such as football, according to a
report today from the  U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention . Traumatic brain injuries suffered by people under
age 19 from sports and recreation activities rose 60 percent
from 2001 to 2009, the CDC said, citing data released earlier.  Lawsuits against the  National Football League  and the
suicides of former professional athletes have created scrutiny
of the long-term effects of head injuries suffered on the field.
The  Institute of Medicine , an advisory panel to U.S. policy
makers, began an investigation this year into sports concussions
for players from elementary school age through young adulthood.  “We’re only beginning to scratch the surface of the
concussion issue,” said  Christopher Nowinski , a former Harvard
University football player and professional wrestler who is now
the executive director of the Sports Legacy Institute, a
nonprofit group devoted to head injury awareness. “It was
ignored for so long that we have a lot to catch up on.”  Learning More  While deaths from brain trauma among those ages 15 to 19
have been cut in half from 1999 to 2010, emergency room trips
for athletic injuries by those teenagers have greatly increased,
the CDC said in its Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. The
Atlanta-based agency has begun collaborating with the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association , the NFL and other sports groups
to educate coaches and players about how to treat potential on-field trauma or prevent it altogether.  “Based on what we know now, I’d be shocked to find out
that there aren’t more negative consequences to brain trauma
than we understand even today,” said Nowinski, who was
performing for  World Wrestling Entertainment Inc. (WWE)  as “Chris
Harvard” when he suffered a concussion in 2003.  Traumatic brain injuries are caused by collisions or jolts
to the head that disrupt normal brain function. Concussions, a
mild form of traumatic brain injuries that constitute three
quarters of diagnoses, are common within contact sports such as
football and lacrosse.  NFL Lawsuits  More than 3,000 former players and their families have sued
the NFL seeking damages for head injuries, as well as for
allegedly concealing data about the long-term dangers of
repeated concussions. The family of linebacker Junior Seau, who
committed suicide in May 2012, also sued the league on the
contention that  brain damage  sustained during his 20 seasons
drove him to his death.  Including all causes, such as falls and assaults, at least
2.4 million emergency department visits, hospitalizations, or
deaths were related to a traumatic brain injury in 2009, the CDC
said. Brain trauma cost an estimated $76.5 billion in direct
U.S. medical expenditures and indirect costs such as lost wages
and productivity.  Among the general population, falls cause more than 35
percent of traumatic brain injury, though children under 14 and
adults over 65 are more susceptible to accidents in this way.
Motor vehicle crashes and blunt impact each contribute 17
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Adams in  New York  at 
 sadams69@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  