-- Brazil Eases Curbs on Banks Raising Funds Abroad as Real Weakens
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-07-11T22:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/brazil-eases-curbs-on-banks-raising-funds-abroad-as-real-weakens.html
Brazil ’s central bank eased
restrictions on local banks’ ability to raise funds abroad,
adding to government efforts to slow a decline in the currency
prompted by concerns the U.S. may unwind monetary stimulus.  The monetary authority, in a statement, eliminated capital
requirements that increased the costs for banks to bring into
the country foreign currency loans raised by their subsidiaries
abroad.  As investors dump emerging market assets, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government in recent weeks has begun to unwind
capital controls put in place over the past five years. The real
has declined 9.5 percent since May 21, the day before Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that an $85 billion a
month bond buying program may be scaled back if the U.S. job
market keeps improving. That’s more than any other currency
tracked by Bloomberg except Uruguay’s peso.  Today’s measure is unlikely to stem the currency’s decline,
 Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Votorantim Ctvm, said.
Still, the move is further evidence the government is taking a
more market-friendly tack after battling investors who pushed
the real to a 12-year high in 2011, he said.  “It’s a positive move in the sense it’s showing the
government strategy of favoring a freer movement of capital,”
he said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “The entire world
is worried about liquidity.”  In June, the bank eliminated  reserve requirements  on short
dollar positions held by local banks and also scrapped taxes on
currency derivatives and foreign purchases of bonds.  The real gained 0.4 percent to 2.2556 per U.S. dollar
today. Bernanke said yesterday the  U.S. economy  needed a
“highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Bogota at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  