-- Brazil Signals World’s Biggest Key Rate Rise Far From Over
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-07-11T13:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/brazil-signals-world-s-biggest-key-rate-increase-far-from-over.html
Brazil ’s central bank raised the
benchmark interest rate a third consecutive time and said it was
giving continuity to the world’s biggest tightening cycle,
signaling increases may be extended through year-end as policy
makers battle inflation.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
yesterday raised the benchmark  Selic (BZSTSETA)  rate by 50 basis points to
8.50 percent, as forecast by all 51 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The move led Itau Unibanco to reiterate its call for
a rate increase in each of the three meetings left this year.  Brazil,  Egypt  and Indonesia are the only three major
economies tracked by Bloomberg that are raising interest rates
as emerging markets take steps to stem capital outflows sparked
by concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will start to scale back
liquidity injections. In Brazil, quickening inflation is sapping
economic growth and further driving away investors.  “Emerging markets will now have to compete for capital
with the U.S.,”  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Banco
Espirito Santo de Investimento, said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“Countries that carried out the necessary adjustments will
suffer less. Brazil is likely to suffer more.”  New leaders in China reined in credit growth as President
Xi Jinping signaled last month he will tolerate slower growth
amid signs banks have overextended their finances by lending to
property companies and local governments.  Tighten Rules  In  India , a plunge in the rupee prompted the nation’s
market regulator to tighten rules on futures and options
transactions this week, while the central bank barred banks from
proprietary trading of such contracts. The Reserve Bank of India
also held interest rates last month for the first time in four
reviews, citing inflation risks.  Brazil is one of only three countries among 50 major
economies tracked by Bloomberg that is raising borrowing costs
this year as above-target inflation undercuts months of
government stimulus by curbing  retail sales  growth. After a
quarter-point rate increase in April, policy makers in Brazil
doubled the pace in May and reiterated warnings that the outlook
for inflation remains unfavorable.  Indonesia  today raised its key rate by 50 basis points,
more than forecast, to 6.5 percent to bolster a weakening
currency and ease inflation pressures after the government
increased fuel prices last month.  Brazil consumer prices rose 6.70 percent  in June  from last
year, the fastest pace since October 2011, the national
statistics agency said July 5. The central bank targets
inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Yesterday’s move to continue with a 50 basis-point increase
“will contribute to put inflation on a decline and assure that
this trend will persist next year,” policy makers said in a
statement accompanying the decision.  Raise Rates  The central bank board known as Copom will raise rates by
50 basis points in their next two meetings before finishing the
year with a quarter-point increase, Itau economists Ilan Goldfajn and Caio Megale wrote in a note e-mailed to investors
yesterday.  “By maintaining the pace of rate hikes and the statement,
the Copom suggests comfort in its plan to fight inflation,”
they wrote.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014 fell
two basis points to 8.78 percent at 10:28 a.m. today.  A dimming outlook for  emerging markets  prompted the
International Monetary Fund this week to cut its global growth
forecast for 2013 to a “subdued” pace of 3.1 percent. The
Washington-based lender reduced its estimate for emerging
economies to 5 percent from 5.3 percent from April while
dropping the outlook for Brazil to 2.5 percent from 3.4 percent.  Unexpectedly Slowed  Since May 29, when Brazil’s government reported that growth
of gross domestic product unexpectedly slowed to  0.55 percent  in
the first quarter, a number of key economic indicators have
missed expectations.  Retail sales, which helped propel Brazil’s economic
expansion in recent years, were unchanged in May from April, the
national statistics agency said today. Supermarket and
hypermarket sales jumped 1.9 percent in May after falling a
revised 0.3 percent in April.  While retail sales were stronger than economists’ median
forecast of a 0.4 percent decline, and food and beverage costs
have started to ease, factors including slowing credit growth
and a weakening labor market are crimping shoppers, according to
 Newton Rosa , chief economist at SulAmerica Investimentos.  Clothing Retailer  Lojas Renner SA (LREN3) , Brazil’s biggest clothing retailer, is one
of the companies that has seen its business outlook deteriorate
on inflation concerns. The company’s share price on June 28
declined to the lowest level since August after JPMorgan Chase &
Co. cut its recommendation on the stock due to declining
disposable income and deteriorating consumer sentiment.  Industrial output declined 2 percent in May, lower than all
29 forecasts of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The same week,
analysts cut their economic growth forecasts for Brazil for this
year and next to below 3 percent for the first time, according
to the July 5 central bank survey.  ‘Weak’ Activity  “Economic activity is weak, and that’s a sign that
inflation continues to be high,” Darwin Dib, chief economist at
CM Capital Markets Asset Management, said by phone from Sao
Paulo before yesterday’s decision.  Brazil’s Ibovespa has declined 31.4 percent in dollar terms
in 2013, the worst performance among 94 global benchmark indexes
after the Lima General Index. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises
Index has dropped 16.5 percent.  The real fell 0.1 percent to 2.2677 per dollar today at
10:46 a.m. local time and has weakened 12.9 percent in the past
three months, the second biggest drop among the 16 most-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The rout comes as investors withdrew $13.9 billion from
equity mutual funds invested this year in BRICs nations that
also include Russia, India and China, according to EPFR Global.
The MSCI BRIC Index fell 12 percent last quarter while the
nations’  currencies  sank 4.1 percent against the dollar and
government bonds lost an average 0.6 percent, the only such
correlation in data compiled by Bloomberg going back seven
years.  The real’s depreciation pushes up the price of some imports
and threatens to further fuel inflation that helped spark
nationwide demonstrations last month.  Protesters took to the streets in early June to oppose a
bus fare increase in Sao Paulo. Discontent later spread to other
metropolitan centers including Brasilia, Porto Alegre and Rio de
Janeiro, as demonstrators expanded their grievances to include
corruption and public services.  Unwind Cuts  Citing a need to rein in federal spending, Finance Minister
Guido Mantega on June 27 decided to gradually unwind tax cuts on
home appliances. Days later, President Dilma Rousseff said that
fiscal control helps contain inflation.  The central bank board will contribute by tightening
monetary conditions in future meetings, John Welch, macro
strategist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said. Welch,
like Itau, expects two more half-point increases followed by a
quarter-point raise.  “The central bank is going to tighten more,” he said by
phone from Toronto after yesterday’s decision. “They have to
tighten more and they have to do it quickly if they want to
control inflation”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  