-- Brazil Buying Angolan LNG Seen Signaling Weaker Shipping Demand
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-07-11T11:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/brazil-buying-angolan-lng-seen-signaling-weaker-shipping-demand.html
Brazil ’s purchase of the first cargo
of liquefied natural gas exported from  Angola  may signal weaker-than-expected demand for shipping as voyages shorten, according
to SEB Enskilda.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the state energy company known as
Petrobras, said it bought the first cargo of Angolan LNG last
month as the African country’s $10 billion export terminal
opened after an 18-month delay. The carrier Sonangol Sambizanga
is scheduled to unload near  Rio de Janeiro  on July 14, according
to ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.  The shipment shows how the market has changed since the
 terminal  was planned with exports to the U.S. in mind, said SEB
Enskilda analyst Tian Tollefsen in Oslo. While Angola will sell
cargoes individually and the destination of the others is
unknown, rising South American demand is drawing more deliveries
from the largest importers in  Asia , curbing shipping distances.  “It would be better for the shipping market if it went to
the  Far East ,” Tollefsen said by phone today. “It’s positive
that it’s up and running, at least, but slightly negative that
it’s going to  South America .”  Spot rates to ship the frozen fuel slumped 26 percent to
$92,000 a day this year and touched a two-year low of $86,000 in
June, according to data from Fearnley LNG, a shipbroker in Oslo.
Seven vessels dedicated to the Angola project added competition
for cargoes while the plant was delayed.  Japanese Imports  Petrobras said June 11 it will import as many as 60 LNG
cargoes this year, up from 56 in 2012. Shipments into  Japan , the
world’s biggest buyer, fell 9.8 percent from a year earlier to
6.21 million metric tons in May, government data show.  Production at the Angolan plant, with an annual capacity of
5.2 million tons, was postponed because of fires, pipeline
collapses and a lack of skilled workers, three people with
knowledge of the situation said in May. The facility planned one
or two cargoes in June and July before performing checks on its
systems and resuming output in the fourth quarter, they said.  Chevron Corp. is the project’s largest stakeholder with a
36.4 percent share, followed by state-owned Sonangol EP with
22.8 percent and  Total SA (FP) , BP Plc and Eni SpA with 13.6 percent
each, according to Angola LNG’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  