-- Brazil Second Biggest Union Urges Mantega to Quit Amid Protest
-- B y   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-07-11T22:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/brazil-second-biggest-union-urges-mantega-to-quit-amid-protest.html
Brazil’s second biggest union
federation urged Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  to step down as
workers today took to the streets to demand a shorter work week
and more investments in health and education.  “Mantega lost the right to direct the economy because he
no longer has any credibility,” Paulo Pereira da Silva, the
president of union federation Forca Sindical, said by phone from
Sao Paulo. “The market, businessmen, workers -- no one believes
him.”  Silva said President Dilma Rousseff also needs to replace
central bank governor Alexandre Tombini, who yesterday raised
the benchmark interest rate for a third consecutive meeting in a
bid to slow inflation that breeched the upper limit of its
target range.  Economic growth last year was the slowest since the world’s
second biggest emerging market contracted in 2009 in the
aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc.’s collapse. Surging
consumer prices threaten to slow  consumer spending  and stymie
this year’s economic recovery.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week cut Brazil’s
gross domestic product growth forecast to 2.5 percent from its
3.4 percent estimate in April. The Washington-based lender
forecasts  emerging markets  will expand 5 percent in 2013.  Unionized workers held up signs to fire Mantega as they
also demonstrated today for agrarian and political reforms. The
unrest follows nationwide protests last month for an end to
government corruption and improved public services.  Economic Policy  Brazil’s biggest labor federation, known as CUT, also
participated in today’s protests and criticized the government’s
economic policy, while stopping short of calling for anyone’s
dismissal. The demonstrations were smaller that last month’s
protests that drew more than 1 million people.  The main highway leading from Sao Paulo city was blocked by
5,000 protesters, with smaller demonstrations interrupting
traffic across the greater Sao Paulo area, according to the
Military Police’s Twitter page. Highways in 13 other states were
blocked by protests, with the biggest disruptions in  Rio Grande 
do Sul, according to  O Globo ’s G1 website.  Also joining today’s demonstration was the Free Fare
Movement, whose protest against a 20-centavo (9 cents) bus fare
increase sparked last month’s nationwide protests.  More than 22,000 workers in 20 factories in Sao Paulo state
participated in the strike, stopping production at  General
Motors Co. (GM) ,  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , Avibras Industria Aeroespacial  and TI
Automotive Ltd., Shirley Rodrigues, spokeswoman for the
metalworkers union, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edgerton in Brasilia at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  