-- Bumi Chairman’s Plan to Double Stake Incurs Wrath of Rothschild
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-07-11T17:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/bumi-chairman-s-plan-to-double-stake-incurs-wrath-of-rothschild.html
Bumi Plc Chairman Samin Tan’s
agreement to buy out the Bakrie family from the Indonesian coal
producer has provoked the ire of financier and fellow
shareholder  Nathaniel Rothschild .  Tan’s  PT Borneo Lumbung Energi & Metal (BORN)  agreed to pay the
Bakries $223 million for their 23.8 percent stake in Bumi, the
Jakarta-based company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
The deal will double Tan’s holding to 47.6 percent and make him
the biggest shareholder.  Bumi has been at the heart of a battle for control between
co-founders Rothschild, scion of a centuries-old British banking
dynasty, and the Bakries, one of Indonesia’s wealthiest
families. Each made rival proposals last year to unwind the $3
billion deal that brought them together in  London  in 2011.  Rothschild, who owns 14.8 percent of Bumi, said in an
interview this week the latest moves were “another
choreographed stitch-up between the Bakries and Samin Tan.” The
offer outlined is part of a two-stage exit from Bumi for the
family, revising a nine-month-old separation plan. A second
transaction involves the Bakries paying more than $500 million
to buy back a 29.2 percent stake in coal exporter PT  Bumi
Resources (BUMI)  sold to Bumi in 2011.  Borneo “hopes to see, and will endeavor to restore,
stability in Bumi Plc so as to allow its management to refocus
on activities that create value for all stakeholders,” it said
in the statement.  Coal Prices  The Borneo-Bakrie deal is subject to conditions, including
a waiver from Borneo having to make a general offer for Bumi.
The purchase will reduce the average price Tan has paid for Bumi
stock to 675 pence a share from 1,090 pence, Borneo said. Bumi
last traded at 259.3 pence on April 19. The Bakries said they
sold the shares at $3.89, or about 257 pence, each.  The agreement marks an “important first step toward
separation although it has not been an easy or simple process,”
Chris Fong, executive vice president of the Bakrie Group, said
in a statement. “The Borneo transaction is the direction we
have taken, there are no other options on the table.”  Tan said last month he has lost about $800 million on the
value of his initial January 2012 purchase of 23.8 percent of
Bumi from the Bakries for $1 billion. There were concerns that
Borneo would have difficulty funding the deal given a drop in
coking coal prices, said Erindra Krisnawan, a Jakarta-based
analyst at PT CIMB Securities  Indonesia .  Deal Finance  Borneo said it made a voluntary prepayment of $50 million
toward a $1 billion loan facility. It has paid back $170 million
of the loan and has the funds ready for the Bumi purchase,
Alexander Ramlie, president-director of Borneo, said in an e-mailed statement.  The company is also studying a bond sale to refinance the
balance of its existing debt after the Bakrie acquisition is
completed.  The deal that Bumi and the Bakries put forward in October
included a share swap that would lead to the Bakries’ shares in
the London-listed company being canceled.  Bumi’s independent directors will assess any Bakrie
separation proposal before it can be put to shareholders for a
vote, the London-based company said July 10.  Rothschild said yesterday those directors “should not dare
to recommend this deal in its current format as minorities won’t
support it.” He attacked the price offered by Borneo Lumbung.
“We will see whether institutional shareholders are foolish
enough to sell  Bumi Plc (BUMI)  to Mr. Tan for a very low price at the
low-point in the cycle.”  The 41-year-old financier has proposed that the Bakries’
Bumi stake be offered to existing shareholders, rather than sold
to Tan, who could instead underwrite the offer and be free to
buy any stock not taken up.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  