-- Canada Dollar Rises to 3-Week High on Bets of More U.S. Stimulus
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-11T21:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/canada-dollar-rises-to-3-week-high-on-bets-of-more-u-s-stimulus.html
The Canadian dollar rose to its
highest level in three weeks after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said the  U.S. economy  still isn’t strong enough to
do without monetary stimulus.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, strengthened for
a fourth day after minutes of the Fed’s June meeting released
yesterday showed many officials wanted to see more signs
employment is improving before backing a reduction to bond
purchases. Canada’s dollar also advanced versus the majority of
its most-traded peers, including the currencies of its
commodity-exporting counterparts,  Australia  and New Zealand.
 Home prices  rose in May, a government report showed.  “Obviously, a big shake out in positioning over the last
24 hours or so with the dollar selling off in the wake of the
Fed minutes and Bernanke’s comments yesterday,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, by
phone from Toronto. “Tapering is still on track for the latter
part of this year, possibly for September and we think the
program winds up for the early part of 2014. It should mean a
weaker Canadian dollar, higher  U.S. dollar .”  The loonie added 1 percent to C$1.0366 per U.S. dollar at 5
p.m. in Toronto. It touched C$1.0326, the strongest level since
June 20. One loonie buys 96.47 U.S. cents.  Options Data  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. peer fell to the lowest point on a closing basis
in nine weeks. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal
rate reached 1.3525 percent, the lowest since May 9. Risk
reversals measure the premium on options contracts to sell
Canadian dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the
opposite.  Canada ’s 10-year benchmark  bond  rose, with yields falling
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.44 percent.
The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 added 38 cents to
C$91.77.  Economists are forecasting the appreciation in the 10-year
bond will continue as economic growth in Canada remains tepid.  Yields on benchmark 10-year bonds will fall to 2.40 percent
by September, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 23 economists. They climbed 74 basis points in May and
June, the fastest two-month increase since 1994.  Central Banks  The  Bank of Canada  is likely to leave  interest rates  at 1
percent at its meeting July 17, according to options data.
Traders are pricing in less than two basis points of tightening
by next week’s meeting, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on overnight index swaps. Governor Stephen Poloz will also
deliver his first monetary policy report since taking up the
role June 3.  “No one knows what to make of the Fed taper theme, which
is the primary issue driving markets and we’re not going to get
any impetus from the Bank of Canada next week,” said  Greg Anderson , head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Bank of
Montreal, by phone from Toronto. “We’ll settle into a range.
However, I’m still dollar bullish if you look past July.”  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 1.8
percent to C$104.65 per barrel in  New York  after reaching a 15-month high yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S.
stocks gained 1.4 percent.  Canada’s new home price index rose 0.1 percent, led by a
0.9 percent increase in Calgary,  Statistics Canada  said today in
Ottawa. Economists predicted the index would rise 0.2 percent on
the month, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey with nine responses. From a year earlier, new home prices
increased 1.8 percent.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart was at 8.0500 percent, almost
the 7.9500 touched yesterday that was the lowest since June 20.
Implied volatility, which traders quote and use to set option
prices, signals the expected pace of currency swings.  “Until Bernanke spoke yesterday, it’s been a general
bullish U.S. dollar trend,” said David Bradley, director of
foreign-exchange trading at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s capital
markets unit, by phone from Toronto. “ North America  is going to
outperform  Europe  in the long-term. You’re going to see the U.S.
dollar stronger and you’re going to see the Canadian dollar
outperform its counterparts.”  The Canadian dollar has gained 0.2 percent in the past week
among a basket of 10 developed nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index. The Norwegian krone has
led gainers with a 1.4 percent increase, followed by the yen’s
0.4 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  