-- Canada May New House Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2013-07-11T12:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/canada-may-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the new
house  price index  report for May released by  Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.1% in May, following a
0.2% increase in April and continuing a series of similar
increases over the past 12 months.  Calgary was the top contributor to the national advance in May,
as prices for new homes rose 0.9%. Builders reported an increase
in material and labour costs as the main reason for higher
prices.  Prices increased 0.6% in both St. Catharines-Niagara and the
combined region of Sudbury and Thunder Bay. Builders in both
metropolitan areas cited higher material and labour costs as the
main reason for the growth. This was the largest monthly price
movement in Sudbury and Thunder Bay since May 2012, when prices
rose 1.6%. Since then, new housing prices in the region have
shown little or no growth.  Winnipeg also saw a notable increase as prices for new homes
rose 0.5% in May. Monthly prices in the region have been rising
since the beginning of 2012. Builders reported higher material
costs for new homes sold, but not yet completed, because of the
new provincial sales tax coming into effect in July.  In May, prices decreased 0.3% in Ottawa-Gatineau and 0.2% in
both  Vancouver  and  Edmonton  as builders in all three regions
reported lower selling prices.  Prices were unchanged in 5 of the 21 metropolitan areas
surveyed.  On a year-over-year basis, the NHPI rose 1.8% in the 12 months
to May, following a 2.0% annual increase in each of the previous
two months. This was the smallest annual gain in the index since
March 2010 (+1.7%).  The main contributor to the advance was the combined region of
Toronto and Oshawa, where the year-over-year increase in
contractors’ selling prices was 2.6%. Annual price increases in
the region continued to show signs of slowing, following steady
growth throughout 2011 and the early part of 2012.  Winnipeg has recorded the largest year-over-year price movements
in  Canada  since December 2012. Prices for new homes were up 5.8%
in May, following a 5.5% increase in April.  Other significant year-over-year increases occurred in Calgary
(+5.3%), St. Catharines-Niagara (+3.3%) and Halifax (+2.9%).
Annual price gains in all three regions have been generally
accelerating throughout the latter part of 2012 and into 2013.  Among the 21 metropolitan areas surveyed, only Victoria (-0.7%)
and Vancouver (-0.9%) posted 12-month price declines in May.
This continued a stretch of 16 consecutive annual decreases in
the two regions of British Columbia.  Note to readers  The New Housing Price Index measures changes over time in the
selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon between the
contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing of the
contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the selling
prices of new houses where detailed specifications pertaining to
each house remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index are
market selling prices less value added taxes, such as the
Federal Goods and Services Tax or the Harmonized  Sales Tax .  The indexes are not subject to revision and are not seasonally
adjusted.  The New Housing Price Index for June will be released on August
8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  