-- Canada Stocks Rise Most in 11 Months on Bernanke Stimulus Pledge
-- B y   K a t i e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-07-11T20:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/canada-stocks-rise-as-fed-s-bernanke-supports-sustained-stimulus.html
Canadian  stocks  rose the most in 11
months as commodity producers rallied amid speculation central
banks will keep acting to stoke economic growth in  China  and the
U.S., the country’s two biggest trading partners.  OceanaGold Corp. and Dundee Precious Metals Inc. surged at
least 14 percent as metals prices jumped. Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd. added 1.9 percent as energy shares rallied.
BlackBerry Ltd. lost 1.1 percent as two executives left the
smartphone maker.  Corus Entertainment Inc. (CJR/B)  slumped 6.9 percent
after reporting fiscal third-quarter revenue that fell short of
estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index gained 186.33
points, or 1.5 percent, to 12,493.26 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
gain, the most since August 2012, extended a four-day rally to 3
percent and erased a loss for the year. Trading was in line with
the 30-day average at this time of the day.  “The central banks have made it clear that they are going
to support the economy,” Barry Schwartz ,  fund manager  with
Baskin Financial Services Inc., said from Toronto. He helps
manage more than C$500 million ($482 million) with the firm.
“Indirectly, they want to make everybody richer and one way you
do it is make the stock market go higher.”  The rally, the S&P/TSX’s longest since May 22, has helped
erase a 4.3 percent plunge between June 19 and June 24. That
rout started when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
after a June 18-19 meeting that the central bank may reduce its
$85 billion of monthly bond purchases this year.  Bernanke said after the markets closed yesterday that
“highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed,” and minutes of the Fed’s June meeting
showed officials would want to see more signs of job growth
before reducing support.  China Stimulus  Fed stimulus has helped fuel gains in global stocks and the
prospect for less support roiled markets in recent weeks as
investors guessed the timing of any reduction. Benchmark U.S
indexes closed at records today.  Global equities rallied, with China’s benchmark gauge
adding 3.2 percent. The government will soften its stance on
monetary policy, Nomura International (HK) Ltd. said, after
Premier  Li Keqiang  said growth must stay above a certain floor.
The nation’s economy slowed for eight of the last nine quarters.  Data in  Canada  today showed an index of new  home prices 
rose in May. Other reports this week also indicated housing-market strength, as building permits rose a fifth month in May
and housing starts fell less than economists predicted in June.  All 10  industries  in the S&P/TSX advanced at least 0.3
percent. Raw-materials producers paced the gains, adding 4.6
percent to the highest level since June 19.  Gold Rally  Gold producers rallied for a third day, adding 6.9 percent.
The price of the metal for August delivery rose to a two-week
high. Dundee Precious Metals led the group with a 16 percent
advance, the most since September 2009, to C$4.96. OceanaGold
jumped 14 percent to C$1.47.  Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. climbed 7 percent to C$3.54 as
silver rallied to the highest level since June 19.  Utility companies added 1.8 percent as a group, led by a
4.1 percent gain in Atlantic Power Corp. The company, which
holds indirect interests in  power plants  in the U.S., closed at
C$4.56.  Canadian Natural Resources added 1.9 percent to $33.29 and
Niko Resources Ltd. gained 2 percent to C$8.36, driving the
S&P/TSX Energy Index to a 1.4 percent increase, its fourth
straight gain.  BlackBerry retreated 1.1 percent to C$9.7, the lowest level
in eight months, after it said two executives who were closely
involved with its new smartphone operating system left the
company. The stock dropped 4.9 percent yesterday as the vice
president of U.S. sales departed.  Corus Entertainment Inc. slumped 4.9 percent, the most in
the index, to C$23.55. The Toronto-based media company reported
fiscal third-quarter revenue that fell short of estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Brennan in  New York  at 
 kbrennan23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  