-- McGraw Hill Financial Names Peterson CEO, Succeeding McGraw
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-07-11T17:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/mcgraw-hill-financial-names-peterson-to-succeed-mcgraw-as-ceo.html
McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI)  named
Douglas Peterson as president and chief executive officer,
succeeding Harold “Terry” McGraw III, who will retain his role
as chairman.  Peterson, 54, who was hired from Citigroup Inc. in 2011 to
replace Deven Sharma as president of the Standard & Poor’s
ratings unit, will start his new role Nov. 1, the New York-based
company said today in a statement distributed by PR Newswire.
Next month, McGraw turns 65, the company’s normal retirement
age, according to regulatory filings.  Peterson’s hire comes as the 125-year-old company stakes
its future on financial services after leaving its legacy
publishing business. S&P, the world’s largest credit rater,
accounts for about half of the company’s sales, after McGraw
Hill sold its textbook business earlier this year. A search for
a successor for Peterson, who was also named to the company’s
board, is under way, according to the statement.  The U.S. Justice Department sued the company Feb. 4,
alleging that it lied about its ratings being free of conflicts
of interest because it downplayed credit risks to win more
business from investment banks that paid S&P to rate mortgage-backed securities.  Publishing Roots  McGraw, who said the company will defend itself
“vigorously” against the allegations, has been the company’s
CEO since 1998. Over that time, he focused the company on
financial services, moving away from its roots as a publishing
company, which his great-grandfather started in 1888. He cast
off publications from Chemical Engineering to Modern Plastics to
Businessweek, which was bought by Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News , in 2009.  After completing the sale of its education division for
$2.4 billion to  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  in March, McGraw-Hill will be more reliant than ever on revenue from  Wall Street 
and companies selling securities graded by S&P, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Prior to joining S&P in September 2011, Peterson was chief
operating officer of  Citibank NA . Peterson took over from Sharma
after S&P cut the top credit rating of the U.S., a downgrade
based on what the Treasury Department said was a $2 trillion
error. S&P said in April 2012 there was no mistake and the
discussion hinged on which baseline assumption should be used
from the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 