-- Chile Keeps Rate on Hold as Inflation Rises and Growth Slows
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-07-11T22:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/chile-keeps-rate-on-hold-as-inflation-rises-and-growth-slows-1-.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its key
interest rate unchanged for the 18th consecutive month as the
economy begins to invert more than a year of robust growth and
slowing inflation.  Policy makers, led by bank President Rodrigo Vergara, held
the benchmark rate at 5 percent today, as forecast by 12 of 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The other five expected a
quarter-point reduction. It is the longest period without a rate
move in Chile since at least 1995.  Consumer prices jumped the most in seven months in June,
even after manufacturing fell at its fastest annual pace in more
than three years the month before. While inflation remains below
the target range, growth has eased more than forecast, policy
makers said in a report published July 1, indicating they
probably will cut interest rates this year.  “The consolidation of the trends outlined in the last
Monetary Policy Report could call for adjustments to the
monetary policy  interest rate  in the coming months,” the
central bank said in a statement accompanying today’s decision.  The bank is waiting for consumer demand to weaken before
taking action, said Sebastian Brown, an economist at Barclays
Plc in  New York .  “If you just cut rates with full employment you run the
risk of creating a bubble,” Brown said. “We will need to see
weaker demand and worse unemployment numbers.”  The minutes from today’s meeting will be published on July
30.  Slowing Down  The jobless rate fell to 6.4 percent in the three months
through May from 6.7 percent the year before and from a high of
11.6 percent in July 2009.  Economists expect the central bank to cut the key rate by
half a percentage point within five months, according to a
survey by the bank released yesterday.  The Imacec index, a proxy for gross domestic product, grew
3.5 percent in May from the year earlier, below the 3.9 percent
median forecast of economists polled by Bloomberg.  Manufacturing tumbled 4.2 percent over the same period, its
largest decline since the aftermath of an earthquake in February
2010 that devastated much of the south of the country. A 13.2
percent jump in retail sales prevented the economy from slowing
still further.  The reports indicated that the economy extended a slowdown
that saw expansion ease to 4.1 percent in the first quarter from
5.6 percent in 2012.  Sharp Adjustment  “Activity and demand decelerated and, while a moderation
in their pace of expansion was expected and desirable, the first
quarter showed a sharper adjustment than expected,” Vergara
told lawmakers on July 1 when the bank released its quarterly
inflation report.  Policy makers reduced their forecast for economic growth
this year to between 4 percent and 5 percent from 4.5 percent to
5.5 percent.  As growth slows, inflation is picking up. Prices leaped 0.6
percent in June, the largest increase since September, pushing
annual inflation to 1.9 percent from 0.9 percent the month
before. The central bank targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or
minus one percentage point.  Two-year break-even rates, a measure of the price increases
being discounted by the swaps market, rose to 2.95 percent on
July 8, the highest since March.  Breakevens rose as the peso tumbled against the dollar and
a frost pushed up the cost of fruit and vegetables. The
statistics agency is also preparing to revise its methodology, a
move that analysts expect to fuel price increases.  The head of the statistics agency resigned in April as the
organization signaled it may have underestimated inflation.  Chile’s peso has weakened 7.2 percent against the dollar
since May 6 on expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve is
preparing to wind down the asset purchases that have encouraged
investors to look for higher returns in  emerging markets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Sanders in London at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net 
CHOVCHOV <Index> 