-- Glaxo Executives Admit to Bribery, Tax Crimes, China Says
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-07-11T08:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/china-probes-glaxo-over-suspected-commercial-bribery.html
Some  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  executives
have admitted to corruption in  China , after authorities found
evidence of serious commercial bribery and tax-related crimes,
the government said.  Glaxo is suspected of trying to increase sales channels and
prices by using avenues such as travel agencies to bribe or
sponsor projects of government officials, medical associations,
hospitals and doctors, and faking tax receipts, China’s  Ministry
of Public Security  said on its  website  today. The company has
found no evidence of bribery or corruption of doctors or
officials in China, it said in an e-mailed statement.  Today’s statement marks the first time the government has
given details of corruption allegations against Glaxo that
surfaced last month. Public security officials in the city of
Changsha were investigating senior executives at Glaxo China on
suspicion of economic crimes, the city’s police said on its
official blog on June 28, without elaborating.  Glaxo rose 0.4 percent to 1,759.50 pence at 9:25 a.m. in
 London . The stock has returned 35 percent  this year , outpacing
the 21 percent return for the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical
Index.  Glaxo said July 8 that it was probing a complaint about how
employees in China sell Botox to doctors, and its inquiries had
found no evidence of bribery or corruption in relation to sales
of the wrinkle treatment. The London-based company found no
evidence of wrongdoing after completing a four-month
investigation into a whistle-blower’s claims of corruption and
bribery at its China business, the drugmaker said June 13.  Travel Agencies  The suspected executives from Glaxo and officials from
relevant travel agencies confessed to the crimes in a
preliminary interrogation, according to the ministry’s statement
on its website. The ministry didn’t identify the individuals or
travel companies.  “We are willing to cooperate with the authorities in this
inquiry,” Glaxo said in today’s statement. “But this is the
first official communication GSK has received from the PSB in
relation to the specific nature of its investigation,” the
company said, referring to China’s Public Security Bureau.  Glaxo takes all bribery and corruption allegations
seriously and continually monitors its businesses to ensure they
meet the company’s compliance procedures, according to the
statement.  “We have done this in China and found no evidence of
bribery or corruption of doctors or government officials,”
Glaxo said. “However, if evidence of such activity is provided
we will act swiftly on it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  