-- China Repo Rate Jumps as Deposit Sale Highlights Cash Shortage
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-07-11T08:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/china-repo-rate-jumps-as-deposit-sale-highlights-cash-shortage.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose, snapping a 14-day decline, even as the central bank sold
treasury deposits at a lower rate than last month when banks
faced the worst credit crunch in a decade.  The  People’s Bank of China  sold 50 billion yuan ($8.2
billion) of six-month deposits on behalf of the Ministry of
Finance today at a yield of 5.01 percent, said a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. That compares
with 6.5 percent at a June 20 sale and 4.8 percent on May 23.
The deposits placed with commercial banks provide cash that can
be used for lending or other purposes. The PBOC refrained from
selling bills or conducting money-market operations today.  “Liquidity has eased, but investors may have to adjust to
a slightly higher, normal level for now,” said  Frances Cheung ,
a Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “Banks are more cautious
after the liquidity crunch and may choose to be pre-emptive in
the preparation of cash.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, jumped 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage
point, to 3.83 percent in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The
one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to receive
the floating seven-day repo rate, rose one basis point to 3.90
percent.  The repo rate may average 4 percent in this quarter,
compared with 3.62 percent in the past year, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts.  The PBOC plans to sell another 50 billion  yuan  of three-month deposits on July 18. The central bank placed 40 billion
yuan in each of the past three months. No deposits come due in
July, according to government data.  The yield on 3.38 percent government bonds due May 2023
rose one basis point to 3.60 percent, climbing for a third day,
according to the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  