-- China’s Lou Urges Fed to Weigh Risks of Tapering Bond Buying
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-07-11T21:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/china-s-lou-urges-fed-to-weigh-risks-of-tapering-bond-buying.html
Chinese Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei 
urged the  Federal Reserve  to be “highly alert” to the global
impact from any decision to begin reducing stimulus by tapering
$85 billion in monthly bond buying known as quantitative easing.  “We support the Fed’s consideration of exiting from QE,
but it should heed the impact of its policy on the global
economy and financial markets,” said Lou, who is attending a
two-day U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue in
 Washington . “The U.S. policy not only affects the U.S. but has
a spillover effect on the global economy,” especially for
 emerging markets , he said at a press conference.  Minutes of the June 18-19 meeting by the  Federal Open
Market Committee  showed that about half of the committee’s 19
participants wanted to halt the bond  purchases  by the end of
this year.  While  China  isn’t in a position to comment on the Fed’s
decision, “if measured by the unemployment rate of 7.6 percent,
it is probably early to exit,” Lou said.  The Fed’s exit strategy won’t affect China “too much” as
Beijing controls capital flow, Lou said.  Growth in China’s gross domestic product during the first
half of the year probably dropped below 7.7 percent, “but not
too far from it,” he said.  China’s Slowdown  China, the world’s largest economy after the U.S., grew
below 8 percent last year for the first time since 1999 as the
government takes steps to reduce reliance on exports and
investment for growth.  Lou said he’s confident in achieving a 7 percent growth
rate this year. That is lower than the government’s official
growth target of 7.5 percent.  When asked if there’s a limit that Beijing will tolerate in
the slowdown, Lou said even a 6.5 percent expansion rate won’t
be a “big problem.”  The slowdown is “necessary” to achieve s structural
transition, said Lou, adding that the government is deepening
reforms in areas including public financing and financial
services to achieve more sustainable growth.  China has shared its plan for further reforms with U.S.
officials during the meetings, Lou said.  Yi Gang, a deputy governor of the People’s Bank of China,
told reporters in a separate press conference today that China
is “well prepared” for the potential impact from the Fed’s
tapering of its stimulus as “abundant liquidity” in China’s
financial system and high  reserve requirements  provide enough of
a buffer.  Exchange Rates  Yi also said China is “unwaveringly promoting” a market-determined  exchange rate  and the convertability of the nation’s
capital account.  The  yuan  has gained 1.6 percent against the dollar this
year, extending its increase since 2005 to 35 percent, the most
among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Currency derivatives have reflected both appreciation and
depreciation expectations, suggesting that market demand and
supply is determining the yuan rate, Yi said.  Yi pledged to foster financial stability after the PBOC
refrained from adding cash to the banking system last month in a
move to slow lending, causing a surge in inter-bank borrowing
costs and the worst cash crunch in more than a decade.  China’s money market has recovered to normal levels and the
financial market is stable, he said. “At the moment, the
tension has been relieved,” Yi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  