-- China Leverage Risks Bypass Super-Saver Households as GDP Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/china-leverage-risks-bypass-super-saver-households-as-gdp-slows.html
China’s campaign to rein in credit
growth, a move that’s spread panic among the nation’s automobile
dealers as they worry about access to financing, is a side-issue
for 27-year-old lawyer Kevin Han.  Han is an archetype of Chinese workers who on average sock
away 30.6 percent of their disposable income, amounting to
6.9 trillion  yuan  ($1.1 trillion) in total household savings in
2012, according to  Louis Kuijs , chief China economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Hong Kong . Han’s breakfast is
5 yuan for a cup of soybean milk and a hardboiled egg or a
steamed bun. He has a 20-yuan lunch of white rice, with small
portions of meat and vegetables, in the cafeteria at his Beijing
workplace. He spends about the same for dinner.  Han gets deals buying clothes online, lives in a cheap
rental apartment, and takes the subway to work (4 yuan round-trip). Scrimping is a must if he’s to buy his own place. He says
he saves about half his monthly take-home pay of 13,000 yuan. “I
want to get married and have a child, which will cost lots of
money. My parents are not rich. So I have to save everything by
myself.”  China ’s leaders want these super savers to open their
wallets and strengthen an economy forecast to have expanded by
7.5 percent in the second quarter from a year before, down from
7.7 percent in the previous three months, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumption Goal  With increasing overcapacity in steel and cement, rising
corporate debt, and a growing challenge with unregulated shadow
finance, policy makers are tasked with weaning China off
investment-led growth in favor of household consumption that
amounts to only 35.7 percent of gross domestic product, behind
the 50 percent to 60 percent in counterparts abroad.  Household borrowing amounts to 20 percent of GDP, compared
with 48 percent in  Taiwan  and 79 percent in  Malaysia , Standard
Charted Plc economists calculate. “Most risks lie in the
corporate sector,” with business borrowing amounting to 117
percent of GDP, against 61 percent in Taiwan and 45 percent in
Malaysia, the banks’ analysts said in a note this month.  Middle-class Chinese like Han pinch pennies to pay for
ever-more costly city apartments and save for their children’s
education costs. The working class also hoards yuan. Twenty-six-year-old Sichuan native Wei Yinping, a worker in a Shenzhen
watchband factory, worries about paying for medical care if she
or her parents become seriously ill.  Health Concern  She saves almost half her monthly salary of 2,500 yuan.
Without a hukou, or household registration card, she can’t avail
herself of Shenzhen’s public health-care network. “If I had a
local hukou, I would have many social security benefits” and not
save so much, she says. Wei plans eventually to move back home
and take care of her mother.  One reason the Chinese are champion savers is that earning
a decent return is so hard. China’s central bank has kept rates
low: A one-year deposit rate offers 3 percent, while loans to
support investment by free-spending local governments and state
companies go for 6 percent. With inflation, Chinese households
earn close to nothing on  bank deposits .  “Interest-rate policy has limited the ability of households
to earn income from their savings, and reduced the pressure on
poorly performing companies to improve,” warned Andrew Batson
and Joyce Poon, analysts at Beijing-based economic consulting
firm GK Dragonomics, in a May report.  The government is taking steps to reform the hukou system.
It’s expanding health-care and pension plans so Chinese need not
save so much to protect themselves from catastrophe. Regulators
are giving banks more flexibility to set market-based  interest
rates  and encouraging lending to the service sector, which is
creating jobs. It will take all this and more to unleash Chinese
spending power.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Dexter Roberts in Beijing at 
 droberts34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Power at   cpower3@bloomberg.net  