-- China May Soften Policy as Li Talks of Limits, Nomura Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-11T09:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/china-may-soften-policy-as-li-talks-of-growth-floor-nomura-says.html
China may soften its stance on
monetary policy after Premier Li Keqiang  said  the nation’s
economic growth and employment must stay above a certain floor,
Nomura Holdings Inc. said.  Li said policy should ensure that economic activity moves
within a reasonable range, while inflation should be kept below
a ceiling, according to a Xinhua News Agency report posted on
the government’s website yesterday, without giving precise
limits. Citigroup Inc. took a different tack, saying Li’s
remarks were in line with its view that the government has no
plans for stimulus at the current expansion pace.  China’s exports and imports unexpectedly declined in June,
underscoring the severity of a slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy as Li’s attempts to rein in credit growth
contributed to the worst cash crunch in at least a decade. Gross
domestic product may grow 7.5 percent in the second quarter,
down from 7.7 percent in the first, according to the median
estimate of 40 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “This may indicate that he is feeling more pressure as the
economic data continue to weaken and the risks that  China  may
not be able to achieve its 7.5 percent growth target for 2013
rise,” Zhang Zhiwei, Nomura’s Hong Kong-based chief China
economist, wrote in a note today. “The likelihood of policy
fine-tuning is rising in the short term.”  Balance Objectives  China should balance policy objectives including economic
restructuring, reining in inflation and preventing risks, Li
said after meeting the governors of five provinces.  Ding Shuang, senior China economist at Citigroup in Hong
Kong, said yesterday that Li’s comments were “in line with our
assessment that the government does not plan to introduce
stimulus at the current pace of growth.” He said it’s “our
understanding” that the lower bound of Li’s range refers to
quarterly expansion below 7 percent and a “significant
worsening of the labor market.”  Chinese  stocks  rose 3.2 percent at the close, the most
since December, on speculation the government will take measures
to bolster economic growth.  Ping An Bank Co. (000001)  surged by its 10
percent daily limit to 10.34  yuan  and  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) 
gained 6.1 percent to 11.32 yuan.  China’s statistics bureau is scheduled to release economic-growth data for the second quarter on July 15.  “People interpret Premier Li’s speech yesterday as ‘pro-GDP’ growth, which may mean looser monetary supply, which in
turn should benefit the housing market,” Du Jinsong, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in an e-mail.  Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
Hong Kong, said in a report today that he expects “some
moderate fiscal and monetary measures,” including spending on
public housing, to put a floor under China’s slowdown. He put
the lower bound of acceptable growth at “around 7 percent.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  