-- CME Requests CFTC Approval to Change Rule Barring Wash Trades
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-07-11T17:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/cme-requests-cftc-approval-to-change-rule-barring-wash-trades.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the owner of the
world’s largest derivatives market, asked the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission to approve a change to its rule barring
traders from engaging in transactions with themselves.  Following discussions with the CFTC’s market oversight
division last month, the Chicago-based exchange operator
withdrew a notification that it was making the change under its
own self-regulatory authority. Laurie Bischel, a CME
spokeswoman, confirmed the CFTC request in an e-mail.  The company has faced resistance and criticism over how it
handles the transactions, known as wash trades. Bart Chilton, a
CFTC commissioner, said last month that CME’s proposal for the
transactions needed more review. Chilton, one of three Democrats
on the commission, said the agency should take additional steps
to vet CME’s guidance and determine if other exchanges will have
similar or better policies.  CME is a self-regulatory organization under CFTC
guidelines, meaning it can approve changes to its rules without
the government agency’s pre-approval. This has allowed  futures
markets  to adapt more quickly to changing trading and market
practices versus regulatory systems where government approval is
needed prior to adoption of new standards.  The company decided to seek CFTC approval to its wash trade
rules “to give market participants certainty that the guidance
in our advisory is fully consistent with the Commodity Exchange
Act and CFTC regulations,” Bischel said in the e-mail.  Reuters reported the request earlier today.  Increased Focus  Transactions in securities and futures markets are
increasingly dominated by trading firms using computers to win
the fastest executions. Chilton has said high-frequency firms
sometimes place trades with themselves in ways that distort
liquidity and transparency in derivatives markets and warrant
more regulatory oversight.  The CFTC and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
increased their focus on high-frequency and algorithmic trading
after May 6, 2010, when a U.S. stock-market plunge erased about
$862 billion in 20 minutes.  The CFTC is improving its capability to oversee high-frequency traders and can analyze trades occurring in
milliseconds, according to Chilton. The agency’s staff has
focused on activity at the start and close of trading sessions,
analyzing millions of executions. During those periods, high-frequency traders engaged in 100 to 500 trades per second in
commodity markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  