-- Coeure Says ECB Will Reassess Rate Guidance at Every Meeting
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-07-11T12:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/coeure-says-ecb-will-reassess-rate-guidance-at-every-meeting.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said policy makers will use each
monthly meeting to revisit their unprecedented commitment to
keep interest rates low for an extended period.  “It will be reassessed Governing Council after Governing
Council,” Coeure said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
in Paris today.  The comments provide an insight into the functioning of the
ECB’s new policy strategy at time when officials are under
pressure to give more details on their commitment to keep
 interest rates  low. Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen sowed
confusion on July 9 when he said that the new policy held for a
period beyond 12 months, only for the ECB later to issue a
statement saying he didn’t mean to outline any time horizon.  “Forward guidance is not a shift in our strategy,” Coeure
said. “It’s a way to clarify our communication and provide more
stability to financial markets. The mandate of the ECB is the
same: it’s intact, it’s a price-stability mandate.”  ECB President Mario Draghi on July 4 unveiled the new
pledge as the economy struggles to pick up speed, bank lending
declines and inflation pressures remain low. That followed a
signal by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke that the U.S.
is preparing to taper bond purchases, which pushed bond yields
and money-market rates higher across the 17-nation euro region.  Two Pillars  Coeure said today that officials will re-examine the policy
monthly “within our two-pillar strategy framework,” which is
“based on the available information on the economic side and on
the side of money and credit.”  “If needed, this will be reassessed,” he said.  The ECB said in its monthly bulletin today that its
guidance covers a “flexible horizon which does not pre-specify
an end-date” and is “consistent but not directly linked” to
the pledge to provide banks with unlimited liquidity through the
first half of 2014.  For former board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, the ECB’s
commitment is a “vague” promise which will need to be followed
by “concrete steps,” according to a guest commentary today for
German newspaper Handelsblatt.  Coeure said policy makers “keep an open mind on all
possible options.”  More longer-term refinancing operations haven’t been
mentioned in the last council meeting and “there is no feeling
it will be needed at the current juncture,” he said.  A negative deposit rate is “part of the tool box” and
“we are technically ready,” he said. Yet, “the sense” of the
council at the last meeting was it’s not needed right now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  