-- Coffee Rises as Brazil Subsidies May Curb Supply; Cotton Rallies
-- B y   M a r l e y   D e l D u c h e t t o   K a y d e n
-- 2013-07-11T15:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/coffee-rises-as-brazil-subsidies-may-curb-supply-cotton-rallies.html
Arabica coffee rose for the first
time in three days as  Brazil , the world’s largest producer,
negotiates farmer subsidies that will limit sales of surplus
beans. Cotton and cocoa also gained, and orange juice fell.  Brazilian officials met with coffee growers yesterday to
seek an agreement on 390 million reais ($172 million) in
subsidies. The government may buy coffee in public auctions,
sell options contracts or use the so-called Pepro subsidies,
where growers are paid the difference between market prices and
the established minimum price of 307 reais per 60-kilogram bag.
Futures tumbled 34 percent in the 12 months through yesterday
and a plunge in the real against the dollar is encouraging
exports that may push prices down further.  “This is the same program Brazil has used successfully
before,”  Jack Scoville , a vice president at Price Futures Group
Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “It supports
the market and is good for everyone involved.”  Arabica-coffee futures for September delivery rose 2.2
percent to $1.243 a pound at 11:19 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in
New York, erasing the 1.5 percent loss during the previous two
sessions. Prices dropped 15 percent this year through yesterday.  Workers at Santos, the largest port in  South America , began
a strike yesterday and won’t be at work today as part of a
nationwide walkout with other industrial unions. The strike
prevented about 13  container ships  from being loaded.  “The Brazilian strike is creating concern that shipments
will be delayed,”  Rodrigo Costa , a trading director at Caturra
Coffee Corp., said in a telephone interview.  Cocoa, Cotton  Cocoa futures for September delivery gained 2.1 percent to
$2,224 a metric ton on ICE, heading for the biggest gain since
July 3.  Cotton futures for December delivery rose 0.1 percent to
86.92 cents a pound in New York, after reaching 87.11 cents, the
highest for a most-active contract since June 19.  Orange-juice futures for September delivery fell 0.8
percent to $1.344 a pound on ICE, heading for a second straight
decline after and eight-session rally. Prices rose 15 percent
this year through yesterday.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  will update its
estimates of  Florida ’s orange crop and the U.S. cotton harvest
at noon today in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marley DelDuchetto Kayden in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  