-- Copper Reaches Three-Week High on Outlook for Further Stimulus
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-11T17:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/copper-reaches-three-week-high-on-outlook-for-further-stimulus.html
Copper climbed to a three-week high
in New York on speculation that central banks in  China  and the
U.S., the world’s biggest metals consumers, will maintain
policies aimed at stoking economic growth.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday called
for continuing stimulus “for the foreseeable future.” Chinese
Premier Li Keqiang said policy should ensure economic activity
moves within a reasonable range, according to a Xinhua News
Agency report posted on the government’s website. The remarks
signal that the nation may soften its monetary stance, according
to Nomura Holdings Inc. China’s benchmark equity index posted
its biggest two-day gain in 18 months.  “A softening in Ben Bernanke’s stance toward tapering saw
markets rally strongly,”  Leon Westgate , a London-based analyst
at Standard Bank Plc, said in a report today. “Comments from
Chinese Premier Li Keqiang stating that economic growth and
employment must stay above a certain floor also gave Chinese
equity markets an additional boost. The base metals have surged
higher as a result, with copper leading the charge.”  Copper futures for delivery in September gained 2.8 percent
to settle at $3.1775 a pound at 1:15 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Prices rose for a third time in four sessions and touched
$3.201, the highest since June 18. The metal has dropped 13
percent this year amid concern that slowing Chinese demand would
add to a supply surplus.  Stockpiles monitored by the London Metal Exchange fell for
a fifth session to 645,175 metric tons, the lowest since June
21. Inventories have more than doubled this year. Orders to
remove the metal from warehouses dropped for a 10th session, the
longest streak since December.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months added 2.6
percent to $7,000 a ton ($3.18 a pound).  Zinc, aluminum and lead also climbed, while nickel and tin
were lower.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  