-- Cosco Shipping Loss Triples in Latest Sign of Weak China Profits
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-11T08:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/cosco-shipping-loss-triples-in-latest-sign-of-weak-china-profits.html
Cosco Shipping Co. (600428) , a listed unit of
 China ’s biggest shipping group, said first-half net loss
tripled, the latest sign that slowing growth in the world’s
second-biggest economy is eroding corporate earnings.  The shipping company’s  loss  in the first six months was 78
million yuan ($12.7 million), widening from 23.6 million yuan a
year earlier, it said in a statement to  Shanghai ’s stock
exchange yesterday. Gold miner  Zijing Mining Group Co. (2899) ,
sportswear maker  Peak Sport Products Ltd. (1968)  and winemaker  Dynasty
Fine Wines Group Ltd. (828)  are among others to report sliding profits
or losses this month.  Chinese data that showed an unexpected drop in June exports
and imports yesterday underscored a slowdown amid Premier Li Keqiang’s moves to reduce reliance on investments and overseas
shipments for economic growth. UBS AG this week cut its 2013
growth forecast for companies listed in Shanghai and Shenzhen,
saying earnings may deteriorate further if government policies
remain unchanged.  “Corporate profitability is closely linked to economic
growth,” Ma Jun, Deutsche Bank AG’s chief China economist in
Hong Kong, said today by phone. When economic expansion weakens
by one percentage point, corporate profit growth may slow by 10
percentage points, he said.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the
nation’s biggest shipyard outside state control, is seeking
financial help from the government. Rongsheng has lost more than
30 percent of its market value since saying on July 3 that idle
contract workers staged “disruptive” activities and surrounded
the entrance of its main factory. On July 5 it said it will post
a first-half loss.  Slowing Growth  Economic growth in China has held below 8 percent for the
past four quarters, the first time that has happened in at least
20 years. China’s gross domestic product may have risen 7.5
percent in the three months ended June, according to the median
of 40 economist estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. That’s
down from the 7.7 percent pace in the first quarter and 7.9
percent in the last three months of 2012.  China’s statistics bureau is scheduled to release economic
growth data for the second quarter on July 15.  Cosco Shipping’s statement didn’t elaborate on the reasons
for the widening of its loss. Guo Jing and Wang Jian, company
spokesmen, didn’t immediately return phone calls.  The company warned in April it may report a loss for the
first six months, saying the global shipping market is in the
“doldrums.”  Cosco Shipping has dropped 23 percent this year, compared
with 8.6 percent for the Shanghai Composite Index. The stock
rose 2.7 percent to 3.02  yuan  in Shanghai trading today, 
lagging behind the index’s 3.2 percent gain.  Cash Crunch  Rongsheng said last week that a plunge in orders forced
it to reduce production and “restructure” its workforce. The
Wall Street Journal reported July 3 that the shipbuilder laid
off about 8,000 workers. The company is in talks with two
coastal cities and ministry-level government departments on
securing financial assistance, spokesman William Li said July 9.  A cash crunch that sent money-market rates to a record last
month has added to the challenges. Securing loans is
“continuously” getting harder for shipyards and borrowing
costs are increasing, said the Zhejiang Province Shipping
Industry Association. “Except for large state-owned enterprises
and some private companies, the rest will more or less face
difficulties in borrowing,” the association said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  Dealers ‘Panic’  The nation’s auto dealerships are increasingly reluctant to
ship their vehicles to neighborhood car lots without upfront
payment because of the cash squeeze. There is “panic” among
dealers, Luo Lei, deputy secretary-general of the China
Automobile Dealers Association, said this week.  HSBC Holdings Plc said last week it expected interim
results from Chinese companies to lead to analysts downgrading
their earnings estimates.  Chinese equities  will struggle for the
next few quarters as a result, HSBC analysts led by Steven Sun
wrote in a July 5 report.  UBS strategists Li Chen and Chris Pu in a July 9 note named
weak new real estate and infrastructure construction, poor
exports, unwillingness of manufacturers to restock, weak
consumer prices and higher financing costs as the main
“unfavorable factors” facing non-financial companies. They cut
their 2013 earnings growth estimate for A-share companies to 8.7
percent from 11.5 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  