-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Decline; Bond Issuance Busiest Since May
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-11T21:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-fourth-day-after-bernanke-comments.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined for the fourth day after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  called for maintaining stimulus measures. Bond
issuance increased for the busiest day in almost two months.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
4.3 basis points to a mid-price of 77.1 basis points, the lowest
since May 30, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are trying to determine when the central bank may
start trimming its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases, which
have bolstered credit markets. Bernanke’s comments came after
minutes from the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s June 18-19
gathering showed that about half of the 19 participants wanted
to halt the buying by year-end.  “Highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the  U.S. economy ,” Bernanke said
late yesterday in response to a question after a speech in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  The swaps index typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Unemployment, Inflation  Bernanke “stressed that accommodative policy should
persist given the state of the labor market and inflation, but
he did not change his tune regarding tapering,” RBS strategists
led by Edward Marrinan wrote in a report today. The Fed Chairman
“reinforced the FOMC’s view that they will keep rates low for
longer as the  unemployment rate  remains above the Fed’s target
and inflation below.”  The minutes of the Fed’s June meeting also showed many
officials would want to see more signs of job growth before
starting to scale back stimulus measures.  First-time jobless claims rose 16,000 to 360,000 in the
week ended July 6, according to figures released by the Labor
Department today in  Washington . The median forecast of 47
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a drop to 340,000.
Claims are difficult to adjust in July for seasonal events such
as vehicle plant shutdown and the Independence Day holiday, a
Labor Department spokesman said as the data were released.  The swaps index has fallen from 86.6 on July 5, when the
Labor Department reported the world’s largest economy added
195,000 jobs last month.  Bond Sales  Companies from  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  to  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) 
led dollar-denominated bond offerings of at least $11.1 billion
today, the busiest day for  issuance  since $13.3 billion on May
22 and above a 2013 daily average of $6.57 billion, Bloomberg
data show.  LyondellBasell, the world’s largest producer of
polypropylene, sold $1.5 billion in its first offering since
June 2012.  The company issued $750 million each of 4 percent, 10-year
debt to yield 160 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries and 5.25 percent, 30-year securities at a relative
yield of 185 basis points, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will be
used for repurchasing shares and general corporate purposes,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction, who
asked not to be identified, citing lack of authorization to
speak publicly.  ‘Pent Up’  “Issuance has been pent up, and the overall market tone
had been ugly,” Robert Grimm, head of corporate trading at
Odeon Capital Group LLC in  New York , said in a telephone
interview. “Companies that were looking to raise money couldn’t
do it, and now you have companies stepping in because they don’t
want to miss out.”  Best Buy, the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, sold $500 million of five-year notes as it prepares to
repay the same amount in debt due next week.  The 5 percent securities, the company’s first offering
since 2011, pay a spread of 359.9 basis points, Bloomberg data
show. Proceeds will be used to refinance debt, fund working
capital or repurchase stock, Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy
said today in a regulatory filing.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 20.5 basis points to 381.1 basis points, the
lowest since May 30, Bloomberg prices show.  Moody’s Investors Service lifted its forecast for the
global speculative-grade default rate to 3.2 percent by year-end
from a 3.1 percent estimate last month. The trailing 12-month
rate rose in the second quarter to 2.8 percent from 2.5 percent
the prior period, Moody’s said. The U.S. rate fell to 2.9
percent in the second quarter from 3 percent.  “Easy liquidity has, of course, kept the default rate low
for some time,” Albert Metz, managing director of credit policy
research at Moody’s in New York, said today in a statement. “If
funding becomes tighter, we would expect an increase in the
incidence of default.”  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 7.4 basis points to 552.1 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and less than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  