-- Jeter Hurts Thigh in Return to Majors as Yankees Beat Royals 8-4
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-07-12T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/derek-jeter-makes-his-season-debut-as-yankees-beat-royals-8-4.html
Derek Jeter  awaited the results of
an MRI on a right thigh strain sustained during his first Major
League Baseball appearance in nine months in which he batted 1-for-4 as his  New York Yankees  beat the Kansas City Royals 8-4.  Jeter, the 39-year-old team captain, was New York’s
designated hitter yesterday at Yankee Stadium after being
promoted from a four-game minor-league rehabilitation assignment
that followed two left ankle fractures.  He was pinch-hit for in the eighth inning and will have an
exam done on his leg, Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said at a
televised post-game news conference.  “His right quad tightened up a little bit and so he said
something and I said, ‘You’re done,’” Girardi said.  No update on the results of the MRI was available last
night, Yankee spokesman Michael Margolis said in an e-mail.  “I felt good up until that point,” Jeter told reporters
yesterday. “We’ll see.”  Jeter had an infield single in his first at-bat, hitting a
ground ball weakly down the third-base line that the Royals’
 Miguel Tejada  was unable to field cleanly. It was his 3,305th
career hit, moving him within 10 of tying Eddie Collins for 10th
in MLB history.  After grounding out to third base in the second inning,
Jeter came to the plate in the fifth with the Yankees trailing
4-3. He advanced a runner with a grounder to second before
Kansas City pitcher Ervin Santana issued consecutive walks, one
intentionally, to load the bases. Lyle Overbay then hit a two-run single and Zoilo Almonte and  Eduardo Nunez  followed with
run-scoring singles to give New York a 7-4 advantage.  Jeter added a run-scoring groundout in the sixth.  “I was nervous going into the game,” Jeter said. “It’s
almost like it’s opening day. What is it, July now? I’ve lost
track of the months.”  Pettitte’s Performance  Andy Pettitte , who gave up all the Royals’ runs in the
first two innings, lasted 5 2/3 innings, allowing eight hits
with a strikeout and a walk.  Santana allowed eight earned runs in five-plus innings,
giving up 10 hits while striking out four and walking three.  David Robertson  struck out the side in the eighth inning
for the Yankees and  Boone Logan  worked a perfect ninth.  Jeter’s appearance meant that he and relief pitcher Mariano Rivera now have played 19 major league seasons on the same team,
tying the record held by Lou Whitaker and Alan Trammell of the
 Detroit Tigers .  Jeter broke his ankle during the 2012 playoffs in October,
underwent surgery and then attempted to come back during spring
training, only to be shut down after a small crack was found in
the area of his initial injury.  Yankees Injuries  In April, Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman  said he
expected Jeter to return to the Yankees after the All-Star
break, which is next week. The team has been hampered by
injuries all season, including two days ago to Travis Hafner and
 Brett Gardner .  “Our original plan wasn’t really to bring him back today,
but we’ve been in kind of a tough situation all year and you get
a couple of guys who get beat up yesterday,” Girardi said. “We
just felt if he was going to play down in Triple-A he could play
up here today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  