-- Derek Jeter Is Ending Rehab Stint as Yankees Host Royals
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-07-11T15:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/derek-jeter-will-make-yankees-season-debut-today-espn-reports.html
Derek Jeter ’s absence from the  New
York Yankees  with a broken ankle is ending this afternoon in the
Bronx.  Jeter is in the starting lineup, batting second as the
designated hitter, for today’s 1 p.m. Major League Baseball game
against the Kansas City Royals at Yankee Stadium.  It will be the first major-league appearance for the
Yankees’  39-year-old captain and All-Star shortstop since he
broke his ankle in the playoffs against the  Detroit Tigers  in
October.  “We looked at the weather patterns and I just decided to
make the move for today,” Yankees General Manager  Brian Cashman 
was quoted as saying by ESPN. “Derek was scheduled to DH in
Scranton, so I figured he could DH and sit around in the rain in
Scranton, or he can DH and sit around in the rain in the Bronx.
We chose the Bronx.”  There’s a 70 percent chance of rain with thunderstorms
likely and a high temperature of 84 degrees Fahrenheit (29
degrees Celsius) this afternoon in New York, according to the
 National Weather Service .  Jeter had been expected to be sidelined until after next
week’s All-Star break after Cashman said in April that he had a
“small crack in the area of his previous injury.” He played
four minor-league games with Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre.  Jeter’s 3,304 career hits rank 11th in major-league
history. The 13-time All-Star needs 11 hits to tie Eddie Collins
and move into the top 10.  The Yankees are 49-42, six games behind the American League
East-leading Boston Red Sox, who are 56-37. The Tampa Bay Rays,
at 52-40, and Baltimore Orioles, 50-42, also lead New York in
the division standings.  First baseman Travis Ishikawa was designated for assignment
to make room for Jeter on the Yankees’ roster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  