-- Detroit Pensions Begin Talks Over Plan to Cut Benefits
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-07-11T00:20:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/detroit-pensions-begin-talks-over-plan-to-cut-benefits.html
Representatives from  Detroit ’s two
retirement funds began face-to-face talks with deputies of Kevyn Orr, the city’s emergency fiscal manager, over his plan to cut
pension benefits, which union leaders say is illegal.  Orr’s proposal to restructure Detroit’s more than $17
billion in debt and long-term obligations includes cutting
pension payments, ending cost-of-living increases, removing some
workers from the system and making the rest pay more.  “We all recognize the city is in trouble, and everyone has
to make a sacrifice,” said Joe Barney, a paramedic and a union
representative for Detroit emergency medical services workers,
after the first of two meetings yesterday. He said he was
“angry, frustrated” that Orr treats the pensions as unsecured
creditors, like lenders “who refuse to come into this city.”  Orr, who didn’t attend the sessions, is trying to avoid
what would be the nation’s biggest municipal bankruptcy if
Detroit sought court protection. The meetings gave his team a
chance to lay out how his plan would affect the pensions. More
specific steps await an actuarial report on the funds, which Orr
has said owe a combined $3.5 billion more than they have assets
to cover -- a figure disputed by system trustees.  Barney said he gets telephone calls daily from union
members fearful that their pension benefits will be cut. Orr has
proposed that city employees with less than 10 years of vested
service be taken out of the defined-benefit plan and be moved to
401(k)-style savings plans.  Human Costs  “We’ve done our share to try to fix this place,” Barney
said. The system covers about 30,000 workers and retirees.  “For us, this is about putting food on the table,” said
Dan McNamara, the Detroit Fire Fighters Association president.
He said it was disturbing to hear talk of cutting pensions for
people who get $1,000 a month or less from the system. “We’re
talking about human beings here, not bondholders looking for a
return on investment.”  There’s no way employees or unions will bargain away
pension benefits, said Michael VanOverbeke, a lawyer for the
general employees retirement system, after the meeting.
 Michigan ’s constitution prohibits changes in accrued pension
benefits, he said. Orr has said that a bankruptcy filing would
negate the state protection.  Cuts Outlined  Orr, in a June 14 report to creditors and union officials,
said the city will defer about $104 million in pension
contributions. The city has since defaulted on a $39.7 million
payment owed on related debt, incurred to beef up the system.
Orr has also proposed moving retirees who qualify into federal
health-care programs such as Medicare to ease $5.7 billion in
unfunded benefits for former workers.  Without changes, Detroit’s cost to cover annual pension
obligations will rise to $233 million by 2015 and $331.5 million
by 2020, out of a projected general-fund budget of about $1
billion, Orr has indicated.  “The emergency manager hopes that they will understand the
need for urgency in getting to know how much the pensions are
underfunded so that both sides can agree on how much is
available to fund them,” Bill Nowling, an Orr spokesman, said
by e-mail before the meetings. He has said that nothing
precludes unions from negotiating benefit changes.  The pension systems last month set aside a combined $5
million for legal action to fight any changes sought by Orr, who
on June 20 ordered an investigation by the city auditor and
inspector general into employee-benefit programs. The emergency
manager wants to examine questionable investments by the funds,
such as real-estate ventures, Nowling said at the time.  Creditor Tour  Orr canceled a bus tour set for yesterday that was to bring
creditors into Detroit’s blighted neighborhoods. It was supposed
to show them why he plans to pay less than 10 cents on the
dollar for unsecured debt and spend $1.25 billion over 10 years
to upgrade public safety and tear down vacant structures.  The emergency manager met privately yesterday with about 30
creditor representatives instead of taking them on the tour.  The creditors “would like to spend more time conducting due
diligence research into the city’s financial state while they
are in Detroit,” Nowling said. He said Orr still wants lenders
to see first-hand the issues residents deal with each day.  About 40 percent of Detroit’s house lots are vacant or
unused, according to a nonprofit redevelopment group called
Detroit Future City. Once among the nation’s top 10, the city
has lost more than a quarter of its population since 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, Michigan 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 