-- Disney Says Wristband Boosts Sales in Disney World Test
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/disney-says-wristband-boosts-sales-in-disney-world-test.html
Electronic wristbands tested at  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s  Florida  resort succeeded in boosting spending by
guests, parks division Chairman Thomas Staggs said.  The bands serve as admission tickets, hotel room keys and
credit cards. They were tested by 1,000 people at Walt Disney
World in Florida, Staggs said in an interview at Allen & Co.’s
annual conference in  Sun Valley , Idaho, without offering
details. Guests spent more on average in part because they had
fun with the technology, he said.  Disney, the world’s  largest  theme-park operator, plans
additional trials of the technology, called MyMagic+, before
expanding throughout Walt Disney World by year-end, Staggs said.
The wristbands help with crowd control, reducing the time guests
spend in lines by allowing them to book rides and restaurants in
advance. They can also schedule special meet-and-greets with
characters like Goofy.  “We’re still in test mode,” Staggs said. “It takes some
time to get it all rolled out.”  The wristbands link to a customer database, allowing guests
to purchase items in Disney World’s hotels, four theme parks and
water parks by waving the devices past a sensor. The radio
technology speeds transactions, helping customers make their
trips more efficient.  Disney will also use MyMagic+ to offer special promotions
and activities that may interest customers.  MyMagic+ builds on Disney’s current Fast Pass program,
which allows guests to schedule attractions during one-hour
windows, once they are already in the park.  “It allows them to have a prearranged schedule before they
start their day so it’s actually an enhanced Fast Pass,” Staggs
said. “Fast Pass is getting better.”  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , added 2.6 percent to
$66.58 yesterday in New York. The shares have advanced 34
percent this year,  double  the 17 percent gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  