-- Dollar Set for Weekly Decline Before Fed’s Bullard Speaks
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-07-12T05:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/dollar-weakens-on-bernanke-emerging-currencies-advance.html
The dollar headed for a weekly drop
against most of its major peers as comments from Federal Reserve
policy makers caused investors to push out expectations for when
the central bank will reduce stimulus.  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard , who has
advocated an increase in asset purchases if inflation slows, is
due to speak today. The greenback was set for its first weekly
slide in four against the yen before data next week forecast to
show consumer price gains remained below the Fed’s 2 percent
target. The euro slid from a three-week high before a government
report which may show industrial production in the region
declined.  “The dollar may continue to be soft in the short term,”
said Ken Takahashi, an assistant vice president of global
markets in  New York  at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. “While
the main scenario is still for tapering of asset purchases to
start in September, the pace of it may be a little slower than
what the market was expecting. Comments by Fed officials will be
a focus.”  The dollar traded at 99.03 yen at 6:41 a.m. in  London  from
98.96 yesterday, when it touched 98.27, the weakest since June
27. It’s set for a 2.1 percent decline this week. The euro fell
0.1 percent to $1.3079 from $1.3097 yesterday, when it touched
$1.3207, the strongest level since June 21.  The 17-nation euro slid 0.1 percent to 129.49 yen. For the
week, the euro was poised for 2 percent appreciation against the
greenback, which would be the most since the five days ended
Jan. 11.  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, gained 0.1 percent to 82.817 from yesterday, when it
dropped 1.5 percent, the biggest decline since October 2011.  Highly Accommodative  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in response to a question
after a speech in Cambridge,  Massachusetts  on July 10 that
“highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the  U.S. economy .” He is scheduled
to deliver a semi-annual monetary policy report to Congress in
the House of Financial Services Committee on July 17.  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt
each month as part of its quantitative-easing program to cap
borrowing costs, which tends to devalue the U.S. currency.  Bullard, a voting member of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  this year, speaks in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming   today .
Minutes of the Fed’s June 18-19 meeting released July 10 showed
that he said the central bank should “signal more strongly its
willingness to defend its goal of 2 percent inflation” in light
of low readings on consumer-price increases.  Consumer Prices  “Many members indicated that further improvement in the
outlook for the labor market would be required before it would
be appropriate to slow the pace of asset purchases,” the
minutes showed.  U.S. consumer prices probably grew 1.6 percent in the 12
months to June after a 1.4 percent year-over-year gain in May,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  before the Labor Department releases data on July
16. Labor Department data yesterday showed that  initial claims 
for jobless benefits in the U.S. unexpectedly rose last week to
a two-month high.  The dollar’s declines versus the euro “remain temporary
and corrective,”  MacNeil Curry , the New York-based chief rates
and currencies technical strategist at Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch unit wrote in an e-mailed note to clients
yesterday. There’s a risk the euro will climb toward retracement
resistance at $1.3276 before its “larger bear trend” resumes,
Curry wrote. Resistance is an area on a chart where orders to
sell may be clustered.  Industrial Output  Euro-area industrial  output  probably fell 0.3 percent in
May from the previous month when it increased 0.4 percent,
according to a Bloomberg survey. The European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg is due to release data today.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged last
week to keep borrowing costs low for an extended period. The ECB
wanted to provide forward guidance in a more explicit way than
it did in the past, he told reporters. The bank’s key interest
rate is a record-low 0.5 percent.  “The euro’s probably a bit too much on the high side,”
said  Joseph Capurso , a Sydney-based currency strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender.
“The European economy’s weak, they’ve got low inflation and
they’ve got a central bank that has an easing bias.”  CBA sees the euro at $1.26 by Dec. 31, Capurso said.  Singapore’s dollar reached the strongest in three weeks
after the economy expanded more than economists estimated. Gross
domestic product rose an annualized 15.2 percent in the three
months through June from the previous quarter, when it grew 1.8
percent, the Trade Ministry said in a statement today. The
median economist forecast was for an 8.1 percent expansion.  The  Singapore dollar  was 0.2 percent lower at S$1.2613
against the greenback after earlier touching S$1.2580, the
strongest since June 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  