-- Doric May Take Airbus A380s Early in Deals With Existing Users
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-11T13:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/doric-may-take-airbus-a380s-early-in-deals-with-existing-users.html
Doric Asset Finance Ltd., which
ordered 20 Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos last month, may take its
first planes early to satisfy demand from existing operators.  As carriers including  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  and
 Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI)  consider boosting their A380
fleets, Doric may take jets in 2015 and lease them to operators,
Paul Kent, the Dublin-based aircraft lessor’s chief commercial
officer said today in London.  “There is quite some demand for the 2015 slots,” he said
at an Ascend Advisory conference. “We might accelerate some of
slots in order to satisfy demand.”  Doric and Nimrod, a specialist investment fund, have built
a business on financing A380s for airlines including Emirates
and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  before striking a deal to buy planes
directly from Airbus at last month’s  Paris Air Show . First
deliveries are due from 2016 under an agreement that still needs
to be finalized.  Early placement would be with existing users for which the
cabin interior has been defined, Kent said. Talks are also
progressing with multiple new superjumbo operators, he said.  Airbus, which is trying to sell at least 25 A380s this
year, still has open production slots for its flagship plane in
2015. The manufacturer has booked no firm orders for the plane
in 2013, though  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said it will take two
more.  To secure the commitment, Airbus provided Doric with
favorable terms including for so-called pre-delivery payments
due to the Toulouse-based aircraft maker before the aircraft are
handed over, Kent said. Those payments can require large cash
outlays from buyers.  Airbus also provided fixed price guarantees to redo the
cabin, Kent said, as it seeks to allay concern from a lessor
about the high costs associated with changing the cabin interior
on the highly bespoke aircraft.  Doric is in talks with investors to raise the equity
financing for the leasing unit. Those discussions, mainly with
long-term institutional investors such as insurance firms and
sovereign debt funds, should be completed before year end, Kent
said.  Although all Doric deals currently involve A380s, Kent said
he would “gladly” finance other wide-bodies. Those deals would
be contingent on working with financially strong airlines, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  