-- Dutch Court May Order Compensation for SNS Reaal Bondholders
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-07-11T15:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/dutch-court-may-order-compensation-for-sns-reaal-bondholders.html
A Dutch court said it will probably
order the government to compensate investors for bonds and
shares seized during the February rescue of SNS Reaal NV.  The government’s valuation of zero for the assets appeared
to be incorrect and wasn’t sufficiently substantiated, Judge
Peter Ingelse said in a statement at the Amsterdam Court of
Appeal’s Enterprise Chamber today. The  court  will appoint
investigators to define the compensation required, he said.  SNS Reaal was nationalized after real estate losses brought
it to the brink of collapse. Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem wiped out investors’ holdings of stocks and
subordinated bonds to reduce taxpayer costs of the bank’s rescue
by 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion). He refused to offer investors
compensation, saying their holdings would have been worthless
had the firm been liquidated.  Dijsselbloem’s seizure of the assets “implies his offer
doesn’t completely compensate damages suffered,” Ingelse said.  Investigators should assess the appropriate level of
compensation, taking into account factors such as what a bidder
would have paid for the company, its prospects and the price at
which securities were trading before the expropriation on Feb.
1, he said. The probe will also look at whether financial aid
granted to SNS in 2008 increased the value of the assets.  ’Extremely Satisfied’  “We are extremely satisfied” with the ruling, Paul Coenen, a spokesman for Dutch investors’ group VEB, which
represents more than 8,000 SNS investors, told reporters. “We
can now move on with an independent study into the value of the
securities.”  The government awaits the investigation’s outcome “with
confidence,” Geertje Janssen, a spokeswoman at the Finance
Ministry in the Hague, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. Today’s ruling can be appealed at the Netherlands’
highest court, a court official said.  Earlier today, SNS offered to pay 50 million euros to some
subordinated bondholders. They weren’t properly informed of
risks associated with buying participation certificates sold in
June 2003, SNS said in a statement. The payment includes the
nominal value of the debt plus interest equal to 10-year
government bond yields, it said.  Rescue Costs  Stichting Beheer SNS Reaal, the foundation that was the
company’s biggest shareholder, is also among investors
challenging the government’s writedown of the assets, saying the
terms of the nationalization unfairly penalized it.  The rescue has cost the Netherlands 3.7 billion euros in
write-offs and capital injections. The state is also providing
another 6.1 billion euros in loans and guarantees.  Dijsselbloem, appointed in November, became the first Dutch
finance minister to use powers granted under legislation
introduced last year allowing failing banks to be unwound.  The government may expropriate a bank’s assets in case of a
grave and immediate threat to the stability of the financial
system, according to Dutch law. The government must compensate
investors taking into account a bank’s prospects had it not been
nationalized, the law says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  