-- Duties on Imported Shoes Targeted by U.S. Lawmakers
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-07-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/duties-on-imported-shoes-targeted-by-u-s-lawmakers.html
Tariffs on footwear imports should
end as part of a trade deal being drafted by Pacific-region
nations, a bipartisan group of U.S. lawmakers told the Obama
administration, fueling a debate over shoe-industry jobs.  “We believe these tariffs do not benefit consumers or
advance important trade objectives,” 15 senators led by  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, and  Lamar Alexander , a Tennessee
Republican, said yesterday in a letter to U.S. Trade
Representative  Michael Froman . A similar letter was sent by 47
House members.  The  import duties  highlight a split between U.S. footwear
makers and distributors including New Balance Athletic Shoe Inc.
and  Nike Inc. (NKE) , both of which are trying to protect jobs in their
industries as the U.S. negotiates the Trans-Pacific Partnership
free-trade accord. The 11 TPP nations, which will include Japan
by the end of the month, are seeking to create an economic zone
with $26 trillion in annual output.  New Balance of Boston, the last major company to make
athletic footwear in the U.S., has said the duties help sustain
manufacturing jobs. Nike wants them eliminated, saying the cost
savings will let the Beaverton, Oregon-based company devote more
resources to product design, marketing, sales and distribution.  “A TPP agreement modernizing the current footwear tariff
structure would allow Nike to further reinvest into innovation
and maintain our global competitiveness, resulting in more high-paying jobs in the U.S.,” Sean O’Hollaren, the company’s vice
president of government and public affairs, said yesterday in a
statement.  New Balance  Nike is a member of the Footwear Distributors and Retailers
of America, a Washington-based group that says the import duties
peak at 67.5 percent and is pushing to end the tariffs. New
Balance, which also manufacturers shoes outside the U.S., isn’t
a member of the group.  U.S. footwear distributors and retailers paid $297 million
in import duties on products delivered from TPP nations, Matt
Priest, the group’s president, said in a phone interview. About
99 percent of the tariffs were levied on products from  Vietnam ,
he said.  Other nations forging the Pacific accord are Australia,
Brunei, Canada, Chile, Malaysia, Mexico,  New Zealand ,  Peru  and
Singapore. Negotiators have said they want to reach an agreement
by the end of the year.  Representatives  Earl Blumenauer , an Oregon Democrat, and
Aaron Schock, an Illinois Republican, led House members in
sending a similar letter on the footwear duties to Froman.  “There’s no good reason American shoppers should have to
pay more for footwear, and removing this tariff is going benefit
of consumers and our economy while helping to set the tone for
fair and open trade across the entire region,” Blumenauer said
in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  