-- ECB Says Rate Guidance Is Data-Dependent Using Flexible Horizon
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-07-11T09:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/ecb-says-rate-guidance-is-data-dependent-using-flexible-horizon.html
The European Central Bank said its
commitment to keep rates low for an extended period of time uses
a “flexible horizon” and will depend on the euro area’s
economic performance.  “The extended period of time over which the Governing
Council currently expects the key ECB interest rates to remain
at present or lower levels is a flexible horizon which does not
pre-specify an end-date but is conditional on the Governing
Council’s assessment of the economic fundamentals that determine
underlying inflation,” the Frankfurt-based central said in its
monthly bulletin published today.  ECB President Mario Draghi last week took what he called an
“unprecedented” step and told investors that interest rates in
the 17-nation euro area would stay low as the economy struggles
to emerge from recession, lending is weak and inflation
pressures remain subdued. The move came after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s announcement that the U.S. is
preparing to taper asset purchases boosted money-market rates
and bond yields across the region.  “A sustained upward trend in money market rates has led to
a restriction in money-market credit conditions, so that part of
the amount of monetary accommodation that was introduced when
the Governing Council last changed the monetary policy stance
has been de facto withdrawn,” the ECB said. The shift in
forward rates based on overnight index swaps was “most
pronounced” in late June, it said, without citing policy action
by the Fed.  Money Markets  The ECB said that its guidance on interest rates can help
promote more stable money-market conditions and make
expectations regarding the monetary-policy stance less
vulnerable to shocks.  The commitment doesn’t mean policy makers won’t cut
interest rates again if needed, the central bank said. Officials
lowered the  benchmark interest rate  to 0.5 percent in May and
kept the deposit rate at zero.  Guidance “has been provided before exhausting the scope
for further reductions in the key ECB interest rates,” it said.
“In fact, the key ECB interest rates can be reduced further if
warranted by the evolving outlook for price stability.”  The decision is “consistent with, but not directly
linked” to the ECB’s pledge to supply banks with unlimited
liquidity until the middle of next year, it said.  Excess Liquidity  The ECB’s generous liquidity provision has fueled  excess
liquidity  in financial markets, which culminated at just over
800 billion euros ($1 trillion) last year after the second
three-year loan. Surplus liquidity has declined since January
after banks started to repay the funds early and is hovering
around 270 billion euros.  “If excess liquidity remains above a certain threshold,
estimated to be in the range of 100 billion euros to 200 billion
euros, short-term money market rates are expected to stay
slightly above the deposit rate,” the ECB said. “Given the
importance of the three-year operations for the overall level of
excess liquidity, early repayments could therefore be expected
to have a potential to change market expectations of future
excess liquidity and thereby affect the money-market term
structure.”  In February, Draghi said policy makers were “quite
persuaded” that excess liquidity would remain “well over” 200
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  