-- Egypt’s Strife Reaching Gaza Hospitals With Lack of Fuel
-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-07-11T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/egypt-s-strife-reaching-gaza-hospitals-with-lack-of-fuel.html
The violence flaring in  Egypt 
following the ouster of President Mohamed Mursi by the military
may have unintended consequences for Walid al-Khawaja’s kidneys.  For the last two years, al-Khawaja has needed to come to
the Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza for kidney failure treatment three
times a week. Now he frets that the hospital could run out of
the electricity needed to power his dialysis machine because the
Egyptian military has destroyed dozens of tunnels that serve to
smuggle supplies of fuel and other  consumer goods  into Gaza.  Smuggled fuel is critical to keep Gaza’s 27 hospitals
running. Although  Israel  provides about one-third of the strip’s
electricity needs, demand is about 100 megawatts greater than
current production capacity, according to a 2012  United Nations
report . Since the Islamic militant Hamas group took control in
2007, the single functioning power plant in Gaza enforces daily
black-outs to cope with its deficit. That’s forced hospitals to
use generators that rely on diesel-fuel, much of it from Egypt.  “Since the crisis started, my main worry has been that it
can go on indefinitely and this makes me feel scared that I
won’t be able to get my treatment,” al-Khawaja, 60, said as he
lay on a hospital bed, clad in a traditional loose-fitting,
brown Jalabiya robe. He is one of about 500 patients in Gaza who
need dialysis, according to the World Health Organization.  Gaza’s  1.7 million residents  have been under Israeli
restrictions on the inflow of goods since Hamas gained control
of the territory. Because the turmoil in Egypt partly cut off a
key supply of fuel, as it did last year, the Palestinian Health
Ministry is warning that 80 percent of reserves have been
exhausted, leaving it with about one week’s worth of power back-up to run generators needed to keep essential emergency systems
such as respirators and neonatal rooms functioning.  Limited Supplies  Limited supplies have been allowed to come in from Egypt
and Israel in recent days to alleviate the crisis, said Ashraf al-Qedra, a spokesman for the Hamas-run Health Ministry in Gaza
City. Those amounts were able to give most hospitals a three-to-five-day cushion, said Abdel Nasser Soboh, acting head of the
 World Health Organization ’s Gaza offices. Still, two hospitals
reported this week that they were all but out of fuel reserves,
Soboh said.  “We’re in the middle of a crisis that can lead to a major
health and humanitarian debacle if enough amounts of fuel are
not allowed soon,” al-Qedra said.  Though Gaza has experienced fuel shortages since 2007, this
is the first time “the tunnels have closed almost entirely,
cutting off alternative fuel sources,” Oxfam International
spokeswoman Jo Harrison said in an e-mail. A “limited number of
tunnels became operational on July 6,” though the situation
remains fragile, Harrison said.  ’Conscious Decision’  While the supply situation in Gaza is dire, Hamas may also
be taking advantage of the situation to highlight the strip’s
humanitarian crisis, said Mekhemer Abu Se’da, a political
scientist at Al-Zahra University in Gaza City.  “For six years Gaza has been dependent on Egypt for
construction materials and fuel because of the Israeli
blockade,” Abu Se’da said. “As a result of that we do have
shortages. But of course it also plays right into Hamas’ hand to
make the situation in Gaza look like it’s on the verge of
collapse.”  Hamas has “made a conscious decision” not to import most
of its gas from Israel, according to Guy Inbar, a spokesman for
Israel’s military coordination office for Gaza. Authorities in
Gaza prefer smuggled Egyptian fuel for both political and
economic reasons: Israeli fuel is more than two times costlier,
according to Mahmoud Shawa, chairman of the Petroleum and Gas
Owners Association of the  Gaza Strip .  Idled Ambulances  The Gaza health ministry said that most ambulances and aid
vehicles no longer have enough fuel to operate and that hundreds
of water wells may cease operating soon due to the severe
shortage of fuels.  Since the strife began to unfold this month, Egyptian
forces have destroyed six tunnels and all smuggling activities
have stopped due to heavy security presence in the border,
Mohamed Saeed, head of the North Sinai investigations
department, said by telephone.  The Rafah crossing has been closed for five consecutive
days through yesterday, he said on July 9. Egypt will partially
reopen the crossing today, Hamas said on July 10, as the month
of Ramadan began.  The destruction of the tunnels shows the Egyptian military
sees the smuggling as a potential source of militant activities,
said Mekhemer Abu Se’da, a political scientist at Al-Zahra
University in Gaza City.  Restricted Inflow  Israel has restricted the inflow of goods into Gaza since
Hamas took control, saying imports such as construction
materials can be used to build rockets, bunkers or bombs.
Hamas’s charter doesn’t recognize the existence of the Jewish
state.  Al-Khawaja, the kidney patient, knows too well the cost of
the political strife.  “I wish all the groups would disregard their feuds and
differences and focus on securing the humanitarian needs of the
Palestinian people,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  