-- Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood Calls for Protests
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m ,   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   T a m i m   E l y a n
-- 2013-07-12T14:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/egypt-seeks-islamist-arrests-as-brotherhood-shuns-cabinet.html
Thousands of Muslim Brotherhood
supporters rallied in Cairo to protest the army’s ouster of
Islamist President Mohamed Mursi and the military-backed interim
administration that’s seeking to arrest its leaders.  Crowds thronged to Rabaa square in the capital, where they
held photos of Mursi and waved flags. “Mursi is the legitimate
president, no to the coup,” read one banner.  Security forces have arrested a number of Brotherhood
officials since the military swept Mursi from power July 3 on a
wave of protests by critics who accused him of leading an
Islamist power grab. Prosecutors issued arrest warrants on July
10 for Mohammed Badie, the group’s top official, and nine other
Islamists on grounds they ignited a confrontation in Cairo on
July 8 in which more than 50 people, most of them Mursi
loyalists, were killed in clashes with the army.  A police officer was killed and another was wounded today
when a rocket-propelled grenade fired by unidentified attackers
hit their armored vehicle while on patrol on El-Arish airport
road in the  Sinai peninsula , the  Interior Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement.  Amid the turmoil, the new prime minister, Hazem El-Beblawi,
is trying to form a government that will be asked to revive a
crumbling economy and end deep political rifts.  The government’s priority will be “security first, then
the economy,” El-Beblawi said in an interview with the Asharq
Al-Awsat newspaper, expressing confidence the army will be able
to restore security in the Sinai.  Suez Canal  The political unrest and security incidents won’t affect
the safety of vessels in the  Suez Canal , he said. The 193-kilometer (120-mile) waterway handles 8 percent of world trade,
connecting the Mediterranean and Red Seas.  Egyptian bonds gained for a third day, following $12
billion of aid pledges poured in from the  Persian Gulf .  The arrests of Muslim Brotherhood members “are not in line
with the reconciliation that the interim government and military
say they are pursuing,” U.S. State Department spokeswoman
Jennifer Psaki said yesterday. “If politicized arrests and
detentions continue, it is hard to see how Egypt will move
beyond this crisis.”  Talks Refusal  El-Beblawi said that while he’s talking to a variety of
political groups, it will be difficult to secure the backing of
all Egyptians, the state-run Al-Ahram newspaper reported.  “Everybody is requested to join this political process,”
Badr Abdelatty, spokesman for the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs ,
told reporters yesterday. Those involved in violence are being
dealt with “within the existing judicial system, nothing more,
nothing less, nothing extraordinary,” he said.  Complicating El-Beblawi’s task is the Brotherhood’s refusal
to participate in talks. The group rejects the opposition’s
argument that the military intervened in response to mass
protests fueled by complaints that Mursi hijacked the democratic
process to try to impose an Islamist agenda and monopolize
power.  “We’re back to the same old police state and tactics we
used to see before the Jan. 25 revolution,” Zawba said,
referring to the 2011 uprising that toppled  Hosni Mubarak .  Peaceful Protests   The Brotherhood vowed to maintain peaceful protests.  “We will continue our peaceful resistance to the bloody
military coup,” the Brotherhood said in an e-mailed statement,
referring to the ouster of the democratically elected Mursi,
whom it backed. “We are confident that peaceful popular will is
going to triumph over aggression and injustice.”  The army won’t act as long as the demonstrations are
peaceful and don’t approach or attempt to harm military and
other vital installations or citizens, armed forces spokesman
Ahmed Ali told reporters yesterday.  “If these protests, however, deviate from peacefulness,”
he said, “there are rules of engagement that will be applied.”  Mursi is being “held for his safety,” because there are
people who are “angry from both sides,” Ali said. The former
president is “well treated” and hasn’t been charged with any
crimes, he said.  Even some members of the coalition that backed the
military’s overthrow of Mursi have voiced reservations about
interim President Adly Mansour’s blueprint for elections and the
temporary legislative powers he has given himself.  Economic Slowdown  Egypt ’s economy is stuck in its worst slowdown in two
decades. Unemployment is at a record high, and foreign reserves
are less than half their levels in December 2010, two months
before longtime leader Mubarak was toppled in the popular
uprising that eventually ushered Mursi into power.  The U.S. will continue to provide assistance to Egypt and
all aid programs “still are moving,” Psaki said in response to
a question about whether the U.S. will deliver F-16 jet fighters
to the country following Mursi’s ouster. “We are continuing to
provide assistance and don’t see the benefit of changing that.”  Egypt got some relief from announcements of aid from other
Arab countries:  Kuwait  extended a $4 billion aid package July
10, adding to the $8 billion pledged by  Saudi Arabia  and the
 United Arab Emirates .  Yields on the government’s $1 billion of Eurobonds due 2020
dropped 5 basis points to 8.32 percent by 4:15 p.m. in Cairo,
the third day of declines and bringing the decrease this week to
75 basis points. That’s the lowest level on a closing basis
since June 4. The EGX 30 Index of stocks yesterday slipped 0.9
percent, bringing a drop in the week to 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Tamim Elyan in Cairo at 
 telyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  