-- Egyptian Bonds Advance as $12 Billion Aid Eases Economic Concern
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-07-11T14:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/egyptian-bonds-advance-as-12-billion-aid-eases-economic-concern.html
Egyptian bonds gained for a second
day, sending yields to the lowest level in five weeks, as $12
billion of aid pledges from the  Persian Gulf  eased concern that
the army-backed government will struggle to revive the economy.  The yield on the government’s $1 billion of 5.75 percent
notes declined 34 basis points to 8.4 percent at 4:43 p.m. in
Cairo, the lowest on a closing basis since June 6, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield dropped 69 basis points,
or 0.69 percentage point, yesterday after Saudi Arabia,  Kuwait 
and the  United Arab Emirates  offered the money in the form of
grants, central  bank deposits  and petroleum products.  Egypt’s default risk also fell to the lowest in more than a
month on bets the aid will make it easier for the interim
administration to prevent the economy, stuck in the worst
economic slump in two decades, from deteriorating further.
Interim Prime Minister Hazem El-Beblawi is seeking to build a
government after the military forced Islamist President Mohamed Mursi out of office last week.  “The early pledging of such large sums of money from the
Gulf buys  Egypt  time and materially reduces the near-term risk
of default,”  Simon Williams , chief  Middle East  and North Africa
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Dubai, said by phone.  Five-year credit default swaps decreased 25 basis points to
650, the lowest since May 31, according to data provider CMA.
There were 12 trades covering $61 million of Egypt’s debt in the
week through July 5, bringing the total outstanding to 953
contracts covering a net $355 million, Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. data show.  Stocks Retreat  The nation’s default risk is still among the 10 highest in
the world.  Foreign reserves  have dwindled by more than half
since the 2011 uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  and
Egypt is facing a record 169 billion pounds ($24 billion) of
domestic debt maturities this quarter. The economy probably
expanded 2.1 percent in the year ended June 30, near the slowest
pace since 1992, according to the median estimate of 17 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Egypt’s EGX 30 Index of stocks retreated 0.9 percent to
5,276.73. About 293 million Egyptian pounds of shares traded,
compared with a daily average over the past year of 392 million
pounds.  The measure dropped 1.1 percent this week as the army’s
removal of Mursi triggered violence on July 8, when dozens of
the deposed president’s supporters were killed in clashes with
security forces. Mursi’s Islamist backers are planning another
round of protests tomorrow to demand his return to power.  Stronger Pound  Egyptian officials will meet today with a delegation from
Bahrain, the presidency said in an e-mailed statement. In the
last two days,  Saudi Arabia  offered $5 billion of aid to Egypt,
the U.A.E. pledged $3 billion and Kuwait said it would provide
$4 billion.  “There were three immediate issues Egypt needed to make
progress on: the restoration of security, agreement on a new
leadership and access to foreign funding,” Williams said.
“Over the last few days they’ve done well on each of these.
Bigger problems lie ahead, but I’m not at all surprised that the
market is showing signs of relief.”  The government raised 7 billion Egyptian pounds at an
auction of six-month and one-year treasury bills today as yields
on the one-year debt declined 30 basis points to 14.31 percent.  The Egyptian pound, whose movements are controlled by the
central bank, strengthened 0.2 percent to 7.0001 a dollar today,
taking this week’s appreciation to 0.4 percent. The pound’s
exchange rate increased at a $38.8 million currency auction
today to 6.9929 pounds per dollar compared with 6.9992 pounds at
yesterday’s sale.  One-year forward contracts for the pound strengthened 6.4
percent to 8.375 a dollar from 8.95 yesterday. That’s still
reflecting expectations for the currency to weaken 16 percent
over that period.  The pound has weakened almost 12 percent since the central
banks started the sales on Dec. 30 to limit banks’ access to
dollars in order to stem a drop in foreign reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  