-- Emb. Andina Falls in Chile Amid Brazil Exposure Concern
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-11T15:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/emb-andina-falls-in-chile-amid-brazil-exposure-concern.html
Embotelladora Andina SA (AKO/A) ,  Chile ’s
largest Coca-Cola bottler, fell to a nine-month low on concern
it’s expanding in Brazil amid slowing growth and the biggest
street protests in 20 years in Latin America’s biggest economy.  Andina’s  B shares  fell 0.5 percent to 2,740.1 pesos at
11:12 a.m. in Santiago, the lowest price on a closing basis
since October. The IPSA benchmark index advanced 0.4 percent.  Andina, which operates in Chile, Brazil, Argentina, and
Paraguay, said late yesterday that it agreed to pay 1.22 billion
reais ($538 million) for Cia. de Bebidas Ipiranga, a Coca-Cola
bottler that operates in the states of  Sao Paulo  and  Minas
Gerais . Ipiranga had revenue of 695 million reais in 2012 and
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of
112 million reais, according to the filing.  “There’s concern about increasing exposure to Brazil at a
time of slowing economic growth and political unrest,” Oswaldo Pacheco, an analyst at  Banco de Credito e Inversiones (BCI) , said in a
phone interview from Santiago. “In the long run, this deal
should be positive for the company.”  Brazilian economists reduced their growth expectations for
the country for the third week in a row, to 2.34 percent this
year and 2.8 percent in 2014, according to a survey from the
country’s central bank released July 8. President  Dilma Rousseff 
has pledged to improve government services while maintaining
fiscal austerity and controlling inflation, after more than a
million protesters took to the streets last month to oppose
corruption and high prices.  Embotelladora Andina got 32 percent of its first-quarter
 revenue  from Brazil, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The deal, which still requires approval from antitrust
regulators, may increase revenue from Brazil to about 46
percent, Pacheco said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  