-- Emerging Stocks Rally Most in 10 Months on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-07-11T21:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/emerging-stocks-advance-most-in-two-weeks-as-china-shares-rally.html
Emerging-market stocks joined
currencies higher, rallying the most in 10 months, as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economy will continue
to need stimulus while bets grew that China will bolster growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 3 percent to 942.88,
the biggest gain since Sept. 14. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
capped the biggest two-day gain in 18 months as financial
companies rallied. Brazil’s Ibovespa gained and shorter-term
swap rates declined as policy makers damped speculation they
would step up the pace of  interest-rate  increases. The  Bank
Indonesia  raised its key rate to bolster the rupiah, which
touched the weakest level since 2009. South  Korea ’s won jumped
the most since December 2011 and  government bonds  climbed.  Stocks joined a global rally as Bernanke called for
maintaining accommodation even as the minutes of policy makers’
June meeting showed them debating whether to stop bond buying by
the Fed in 2013. Chinese premier Li Keqiang said in a speech
this week that the nation’s economic growth and employment must
stay above a certain floor, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  “Sentiment is much better today, driven by the somewhat
’longer’ liquidity outlook,” Martial Godet, head of  emerging-markets  strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  London , said by e-mail.
“Markets are still very much liquidity addicted.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund surged 4.9 percent to $39.36. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
declined 5.2 percent to 25.60.  Biggest Gains  Commodity, technology and financial shares, which are most-dependent on the pace of economic growth, led gains among the 10
groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The broad measure has
slumped 11 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent jump in
the MSCI World Index. The developing-nation gauge  trades  at 9.9
times projected earnings, lower than the MSCI World’s valuation
of 13.8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  gained the most in a month, led by mining
company Vale SA, as metal prices rose. Commodities producers
account for about 37 percent of the gauge’s weighting. The real
rose 0.4 percent. Policy makers raised the target lending rate
yesterday and repeated the language used after the previous
meeting, a sign they won’t quicken the pace of rate increases,
according to David Beker, an economist at Bank of America Corp.  Russian Shares  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  jumped 2.6 percent in Moscow to the highest
level since May 28. OAO Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender,
jumped 4.4 percent, while OAO Gazprom advanced 3.2 percent.
Benchmark gauges in the  Czech Republic ,  Poland  and  Turkey (XU100) 
advanced, while Hungarian stocks retreated.  The Shanghai Composite rose 3.2 percent, while the Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index capped its biggest gain since Jan.
2.  Industrial Bank Co. (601166)  jumped 10 percent as a gauge of financial
companies in the CSI 300 Index gained the most since March 2009.  The won posted the biggest rally since December 2011 as the
 Bank of Korea  kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged as it
boosted its forecast for 2014 growth to the fastest pace since
the global economy rebounded from a recession in 2010.
Indonesia’s rupiah touched the weakest level since September
2009. India’s rupee was little changed after climbing as much as
0.5 percent, while the S&P BSE Sensex increased 2 percent at the
close in Mumbai.  Egyptian bonds gained for a second day, sending yields to
the lowest level in five weeks, as $12 billion of aid pledges
from the  Persian Gulf  eased concern that the army-backed
government will struggle to revive the economy.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose 0.06 percentage point to 338 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in  New York  at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  