-- Henry Tang’s Wife Admits Guilt Over Illegal Basement
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   A l a n   W o n g
-- 2013-07-12T00:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/henry-tang-s-wife-admits-guilt-over-illegal-basement.html
Lisa Kuo, the wife of former Hong
Kong chief executive candidate  Henry Tang , pleaded guilty to one
charge of building an illegal basement that contributed to his
losing in the city’s leadership race last year.  Kuo, appearing at the Kowloon City Magistrates’ Courts
yesterday, pleaded not guilty to a second charge of knowingly
commencing building works without obtaining approval. The second
charge “will not be proceeded with,” according to a statement
by the  Department of Justice  last night. The hearing was
adjourned until July 30.  Tang, formerly Hong Kong’s number two official and the
early frontrunner for the 2012 leadership election, lost to
Leung Chun-ying. During the campaign, his popularity fell
following media reports of the basement. Leung, who criticized
Tang over the issue, admitted after winning that he had an
illegal structure at his home.  An engineering company and two building professionals
pleaded not guilty at yesterday’s hearing to charges related to
the construction of Tang’s basement.  “I believe it’s all because of the election that this
happened,” Tang told reporters after the hearing. “I feel very
sorry for the stress this has caused to the three of them and
their families.”  The 2,200 square foot basement -- more than twice the size
of 90 percent of private homes in Hong Kong -- contained a wine
cellar, tasting room, a movie theater and gym, the  South China
Morning Post  and  Apple Daily  reported last year.  Tang, who said last year that Kuo was responsible for the
basement and he didn’t intervene when it was being built because
they were having marital issues at the time, was this year
appointed to  China ’s national political advisory body.  Work has begun in preparation to remove the basement, which
will probably require more than 80 truckloads of concrete to
fill, the Post reported July 7.  Leung beat two other candidates in the March 2012 chief
executive contest, receiving 689 votes from a 1,193-member panel
of Hong Kong billionaires, academics and professionals. Tang got
285 votes and Former Hong Kong Democratic Party leader Albert Ho
received 76.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  