-- Merkel Challenger Says Minimum Wage Could Be Reprieve for Crisis
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-07-11T13:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/merkel-challenger-says-minimum-wage-could-be-reprieve-for-crisis.html
German Social Democratic chancellor
candidate  Peer Steinbrueck  said an across-the-board  minimum wage 
would pump money into the economy and alleviate imbalances in
the euro area that contributed to the debt crisis.  Should he defeat Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in the September
election, Steinbrueck said an SPD coalition with the  Green Party 
would push through a German minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11) an
hour starting Feb. 1, 2014. The extra purchasing power among
low-wage earners could contribute 19 billion euros to the
economy, generating demand that would offset declining wages in
more indebted countries, he said.  “The argument is that Germany has a record-high balance-of-payments surplus, and that’s true,” Steinbrueck said today
in Berlin alongside Green candidate Katrin Goering-Eckardt.
Germany’s surplus is “sensationally high,” he said.  Establishing a minimum wage is a central SPD pledge in the
election campaign in Germany, one of seven countries in the 28-member European Union that doesn’t have a  statutory limit .
Merkel says an across-the-board wage would risk jobs. Her party
favors setting up a patchwork of wage limits across industries.  Steinbrueck contrasted wage restraint among German unions
over the past decade, a factor that he said resulted in “very
moderate increases,” with rising pre-crisis wages and labor
costs in southern European nations. The resulting imbalances
were laid bare as the global financial crisis swept across
 Europe , helping trigger the region’s debt crisis.  Germany’s SPD has struggled to gain ground on Merkel with
its campaign of more social justice in Europe’s largest economy,
including a top income-tax increase to 49 percent. The SPD and
Greens together polled at 37 percent in a  Forsa poll  published
yesterday, compared with 46 percent for Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats  and their Free Democratic coalition allies.  With 85 days left before the election, Steinbrueck said the
SPD will rely on a get-out-the-vote operation targeting
disaffected voters in the final weeks of the election. The
candidate said he plans to unveil next month a detailed program
on what his government would do in its first 100 days in office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  