-- Hertz Wins Final Approval of Dollar Thrifty Deal From FTC
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-07-11T17:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/hertz-wins-final-approval-of-dollar-thrifty-deal-from-ftc.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  won final
approval from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission for its
$2.3 billion acquisition of Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group
Inc., ending an eight-month compliance review of the deal.  Today’s announcement by the FTC seals the transaction,
which the agency allowed to proceed provisionally on the
condition that Hertz sell its Advantage brand and 29 other
rental locations to create a competitor to the three remaining
market leaders.  The FTC said in a statement that it made slight changes to
the final agreement. They required the divestiture of the Dollar
Thrifty counter, instead of the Advantage desk, at  Ronald Reagan
Washington National Airport . The order includes changes in the
dates by which Hertz must transfer some locations to Advantage’s
buyer, Macquarie Group Ltd.’s private-equity arm.  Analysts and rental-car executives have said consolidation
in the industry is giving unprecedented pricing power to its
market leaders, first-ranked, closely held Enterprise Holdings
Inc., No. 2 Hertz and  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)   Hertz rose 2.3 percent to $26.85 at 12:46 p.m. in  New York 
trading. The stock has more than doubled in the past 12 months.
Avis was little changed at $32.42.  Macquarie Management  Normally, the FTC would have approved the consent decree in
December following a 30-day comment period. The agency continued
to investigate how Macquarie, which bought Advantage in a joint
venture with  Franchise Services of North America Inc. (FSN) , was
running the business, people familiar with the matter have said.  The FTC commissioners approved the transaction unanimously,
with Commissioner Josh Wright abstaining.  “We are pleased that the FTC has officially concluded its
review of the Dollar Thrifty transaction,” Mark Frissora,
chairman and chief executive officer of  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based Hertz, said in a statement. “Throughout this process we
have worked closely with the agency, and the result has been a
transaction that we believe will benefit our customers and
shareholders for years to come.”  The FTC ordered Hertz to divest locations beyond the
Advantage business to protect consumers, citing the $11 billion
spent to rent 50 million vehicles at U.S. airports each year.
Without the divestitures, the merger would have hurt competition
at 72 airports around the U.S., the FTC said when it initially
approved the transaction on Nov. 15.  Under terms of the consent decree, the commissioners could
have rescinded the sale of Advantage to Macquarie and ordered
the assets resold to another approved buyer.  Virgin Approach  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Group Ltd., the travel and
entertainment conglomerate, sent a letter June 7 to the FTC
expressing its interest in the Advantage assets, which could
have represented a way to gain quick access to the largest
airports in the U.S., said Fred Lowrance, senior research
analyst with Avondale Partners LLC in Nashville,  Tennessee .
Ordinarily, a company would have to bid for each airport counter
as it became available.  The FTC’s investigation had focused on whether Macquarie
was following through on its commitments to expand and
strengthen Advantage after the Dec. 7 ouster of Sanford Miller,
an industry veteran who was hired to run it, two people familiar
with the matter said in April. Macquarie had said in an e-mail
to Miller last July that it didn’t have car-rental experience.  Rising Prices  Since November, the three big rental companies, which
dominate the airport car-rental market, have raised prices at a
rate not seen since the recession.  The rates charged by the eight brands owned by the
remaining three major companies for an intermediate car at the
airport in  Boston  rose 22 percent in May, according to Rate-Highway Inc., an  Irvine , California-based company that tracks
rental car pricing. That follows a 20 percent gain, on average,
for April, from April 2012.  At the Los Angeles airport, prices rose, on average, 17
percent in May and 14 percent in April. For Miami, rates soared
44 percent in May, on average, and 17 percent in April,
according to Rate-Highway.  Avis, which boosted prices twice in June, said it has
“continued to aggressively implement pricing increases in  North
America .” In the first quarter, Avis raised prices six times
and attributed the increases in part to Hertz’s deal for Dollar
Thrifty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 