-- European Stocks Gain Amid Continued Fed Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-07-11T15:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/european-stock-futures-gain-amid-fed-stimulus-optimism.html
European stocks  advanced to their
highest level in more than five weeks after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. economy will continue to
need stimulus measures.  Ashmore Group Plc (ASHM)  jumped 7.1 percent after reporting fiscal
fourth-quarter net inflows of $4.5 billion.  BHP Billiton  Ltd.
and Rio Tinto Group, the world’s biggest mining companies, each
gained 4.6 percent. Portuguese shares slid amid uncertainty over
whether the country’s president will approve the new make-up of
the government.  The Stoxx 600 increased 0.6 percent to 296.54 at the close
of trading. The equities benchmark has risen for four
consecutive days, the longest winning streak in seven weeks, as
Alcoa Inc. started the U.S. earnings season with results that
beat analysts’ estimates. The gauge has still fallen 4.5 percent
since May 22 when the Fed first signaled it may pare stimulus if
the  U.S. economy  strengthens in line with its forecasts.  “Bernanke’s words have had a positive impact,” Raimund Saxinger, a  fund manager  at Frankfurt-Trust Investment GmbH,
which oversees about $22 billion, said in a telephone interview.
“The central banks are obviously trying to see how markets
react to statements. Central banks want markets to figure out
that ultimately there will be an end to quantitative easing.”  Bernanke said low inflation and high unemployment mean the
Fed needs to continue with its stimulus measures.  “Highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the U.S. economy,” Bernanke said
yesterday after the minutes were released, in response to a
question following a speech in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  FOMC Minutes  The FOMC released minutes of its June 18-19 meeting,
showing many Fed officials wanted to see more signs employment
is improving before backing a trim to bond purchases. About half
of the 19 participants wanted to halt $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases by the end of the year.  In  Portugal , the benchmark PSI 20 Index dropped 2 percent.
President Anibal Cavaco Silva urged the ruling coalition parties
and the main opposition party to reach an agreement to let the
country complete its aid program, saying an early election would
be undesirable.  While the president’s stance allows the government to stay
in office for now, he didn’t say if he accepted Prime Minister
 Pedro Passos Coelho ’s proposal to promote Paulo Portas to vice
premier with responsibility for coordinating economic policy
with the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund .  National benchmark indexes rose in 15 of the 18 western-European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 0.6 percent,
Germany’s DAX jumped 1.1 percent and France’s CAC 40 climbed 0.7
percent.  Ashmore gained 7.1 percent to 376.7 pence after it reported
net inflows of $4.5 billion in its fiscal fourth quarter. The
U.K. fund manager focused on  emerging markets  said conditions
were more challenging toward the end of the quarter.  Hays Gains  BHP Billiton gained 4.6 percent to 1,800 pence, its highest
price since Sept. 14.  Rio Tinto  added 4.6 percent to 2,833.5
pence. Anglo American Plc rose 5.4 percent to 1,337 pence. A
gauge of commodity producers posted its biggest rally in six
months and climbed the most among the 19 industry groups on the
Stoxx 600.  Fresnillo Plc, a silver and gold mining and exploration
company, surged 13 percent to 1,018 pence, its biggest rally in
almost four years, as the precious metals climbed for a fourth
day. “The one standout today has been the basic resources
sector,” said Saxinger. “It has been oversold in recent months
and apparently people feel too underweight in cyclicals.”  Hays Gains  Hays Plc advanced 5.2 percent to 99.9 pence after saying
its fiscal fourth-quarter total net fees increased 3 percent.
The U.K. recruiter forecast full-year operating profit at the
top of the 112.3 million pound ($168 million) to 125.5 million
pound range of market estimates.  Unibail-Rodamco SE,  Europe ’s largest publicly-traded
property owner, rose 2 percent to 188.1 euros. “Real estate is
reacting to Bernanke’s statements, which have eased fears of
interest rate increases,” said Saxinger.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA slid 7.5 percent to 8.6 euro
cents in Lisbon. Banco Espirito Santo SA declined 4.9 percent to
59.6 cents.  Partners Group Holding AG (PGHN)  lost 6.4 percent to 254 Swiss
francs. The Swiss  money manager  focused on private equity posted
a 5.9 percent increase in assets in the first half of the year
after clients added funds at the lower end of its target range.  Renault SA (RNO)  slipped 2.1 percent to 56.05 euros after Sanford
C. Bernstein downgraded the shares to underperform, similar to a
sell recommendation, from market perform. France’s second-biggest carmaker faces currency challenges and slowing demand in
Brazil, India, Russia and Turkey. Bernstein also said the
carmaker’s performance was weaker in Europe than expected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  