-- Lew Calls Progress on China Investment Treaty a ‘Breakthrough’
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-07-11T21:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/lew-calls-progress-on-china-investment-treaty-a-breakthrough-.html
China  will negotiate a bilateral
investment agreement with the U.S., the first time the world’s
 second-largest economy  has agreed to include all sectors in an
accord with another country.  An investment treaty with China “is a priority for the
United States and would work to level the playing field for
American workers and businesses by opening markets for fair
competition,” U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said in a
statement today.  U.S. and Chinese officials, including Vice Premier Wang Yang and State Councilor Yang Jiechi, are wrapping up two days
of talks in  Washington  covering topics ranging from exchange
rates to cybersecurity. Yang said the Chinese leadership is
committed to economic reforms and the continued opening of its
markets.  “The commitment made today stands to be a significant
breakthrough and marks the first time China has agreed to
negotiate a bilateral investment treaty, to include all sectors
and stages of investment, with another country,” Lew said.  Such an agreement is important because it would operate
with a presumption of openness, a Treasury official said today
in a conference call with reporters.  China also said it would try a pilot free-trade zone in
 Shanghai  that could increase access for foreign enterprises in
the service sector, according to the official, who asked not to
be identified as a condition for giving the briefing. The
specific guidelines for the trade zone haven’t been completed,
the official said.  Trade Secrets  The U.S. has made progress in getting China to acknowledge
the seriousness of the theft of trade secrets of U.S. companies
in China, the official said.  The U.S. has been complaining to China about surveillance
of American companies. The issue may be complicated by Edward Snowden’s disclosures about U.S. programs that collect phone and
Internet data, and his assertion last month that the U.S. had
been hacking into computers in Hong Kong and mainland China
since 2009.  Meanwhile, Chinese Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  urged the
U.S. Federal Reserve to be “highly alert” to the global impact
from any decision to begin reducing stimulus by tapering $85
billion in monthly bond buying known as quantitative easing.  “We support the Fed’s consideration of exiting from QE,
but it should heed the impact of its policy on the global
economy and financial markets,” Lou said. “The U.S. policy not
only affects the U.S. but has a spillover effect on the global
economy,” especially for  emerging markets , he said at a news
conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  