-- Ex-Disney CEO Eisner Praises Iger, Plays Down Film Miss
-- B y   J o n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-11T04:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/ex-disney-ceo-eisner-praises-iger-plays-down-lone-ranger-bomb.html
Michael Eisner , who ran Walt Disney
Co. for 21 years, said his successor,  Robert Iger , should
continue as chief executive officer beyond his recently extended
term.  “If I had my choice I would have him stay even longer, God
knows, maybe he will,” Eisner said in an interview yesterday
with Bloomberg Television at the Allen & Co. conference in  Sun
Valley ,  Idaho . “The longer he stays, the better it is for the
shareholders.”  Eisner minimized the financial fallout from “The Lone
Ranger,” a summer box-office failure for Disney. The company
also produced 2013’s top picture, “Iron Man 3,” which has sold
$1.2 billion in tickets worldwide, according to industry
researcher Box Office Mojo. Both men are attending the annual
gathering of entertainment, technology and finance executives.  “The great thing about  Disney (DIS)  is this is such a big
company, as opposed to what it was when I went to it, that a
stumble like ‘Lone Ranger’ is going to have no effect,” Eisner
said. “Their parks are strong, they have all those Marvel and
Pixar,  Star Wars  movies coming out.”  Iger, 62, has been CEO of the world’s largest entertainment
company since  succeeding  Eisner in 2005. Burbank, California-based Disney said on July 1 it extended his term another 15
months to June of 2016, citing the 193 percent total return to
shareholders during his tenure. Iger is also chairman.  Disney last week released “The Lone Ranger,” a $225
million movie featuring  Johnny Depp  that fell flat with movie
fans.  Barton Crockett , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets,
estimates the company may have to write off as much as $190
million on the picture.  Iger Comments  Iger, in an interview at the conference, said the board
felt extending his contract was a good idea. He also pointed to
the company’s 2013 box-office successes, including the Pixar
feature “Monster’s University,” with $406 million in worldwide
ticket sales, and “Iron Man 3.” He declined to respond to a
question about a writeoff of “The Lone Ranger.”  “We had two successful movies, and one not so
successful,” Iger said. Last year Disney bought “Star Wars”
maker Lucasfilm Ltd. for $4.05 billion, and Iger led the 2006
acquisition of Pixar Animation.  Eisner, 71, left the company after a high-profile fight
with board members including  Roy Disney , nephew of the company’s
founder. He runs Los Angeles-based Tornante Co., which has been
investing in new media ventures such as Vuguru LLC, an
independent studio that develops scripted programs for online
and international platforms.  The longtime media executive said Hollywood’s focus on big-budget action movies with the potential to become multi-film
series is fraught with risk.  ‘Lose, Lose’  “People, not at Disney, but all over the industry think,
‘Oh you just take a brand and you put a lot of money behind it
and you get billions of dollars of assets, and even actors that
seem that they can’t lose, lose’” he said.  The best approach is to start with smaller movies and new
ideas, Eisner said.  “I think the failure of not only the ‘Lone Ranger,’ but
there are a lot of them, that’s just one, is reawakening the
industry on what you have to do in the movies.”  Disney closed little changed at $64.91 yesterday in  New
York . The stock has gained 30 percent this year, compared with
16 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  