-- Ex-Hospital CEO Reynolds Pleads Guilty in Kickback Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-11T17:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/ex-hospital-ceo-reynolds-pleads-guilty-in-kickback-case.html
The former chief executive officer
of  New York ’s  Hospital for Special Surgery , charged by federal
prosecutors with taking $1.4 million in kickbacks, pleaded
guilty to two felonies.  John R. Reynolds, 64, today pleaded guilty to  wire fraud 
and making false statements, admitting that he took payments
from a hospital employee and lied to investigators about it.  Reynolds was arrested in September and charged with taking
part in a decade-long kickback scheme. Prosecutors claimed that
from 1996 to 2007, he took money from the hospital employee and
from at least two hospital vendors and an unidentified health-care organization in the U.K. Reynolds left the hospital in
2008, according to the government.  Under a plea agreement with the government, Reynolds will
forfeit $718,500. Both sides agreed that federal sentencing
guidelines, which are advisory, call for him to serve 27 to 33
months in prison. Reynolds is scheduled to be sentenced Nov. 7.  During the hearing today, Reynolds told U.S. Magistrate
Judge Debra Freeman that he has had a heart attack and suffers
from  memory loss .  The Hospital for Special Surgery was founded in 1863 as the
Hospital for the Relief of the Ruptured and Crippled, according
to its  website .  The institution, which specializes in orthopedics, is known
for treating sports stars including New York Mets third baseman
 David Wright  and New York Yankees pitcher Mariano Rivera.
Players for the  New York Giants , Knicks, Red Bulls and Liberty
are also treated there, according to the website.  Reynolds served as the hospital’s chief financial officer
from 1986 to 1997, when he was promoted to CEO, according to the
government. He was replaced as CEO and continued as a contract
worker from October 2006 until December 2008, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Reynolds, 12-cr-00708, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 