-- Ex-Penn State President Spanier Files Notice to Sue Freeh
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/ex-penn-state-president-spanier-files-notice-to-sue-freeh.html
Former Pennsylvania State University
President  Graham Spanier  filed notice of plans to sue  Louis
Freeh , the former FBI director whose university-commissioned
probe placed Spanier at the center of a cover-up of ex-football
coach Jerry Sandusky’s sex abuse.  The claims in the planned complaint relate to slander,
libel or defamation, according to a box checked on a cover sheet
for the five-page notice, which was filed yesterday in state
court in Bellefonte. Freeh declined to comment on the notice,
citing “pending felony charges” against Spanier.  “Over the past year,  Penn State  has made a dedicated
effort to reform the problems that led to Mr. Sandusky’s ability
to victimize children on the university campus,” Freeh said in
an e-mailed statement. “I trust the changes and improvements
that Penn State has put in place will help to build a
constructive and protective environment where children will not
again suffer abuse.”  Freeh concluded in his report a year ago that Spanier,
former head football coach  Joe Paterno , and two other senior
school officials hid critical facts surrounding Sandusky’s
abuse. Spanier and Paterno were fired in November 2011. Paterno
died in January 2012.  Sandusky is serving a minimum 30-year sentence for sexually
abusing 10 boys over a 15-year period. The former assistant
football coach, who was convicted by a jury in June 2012 on 45
criminal counts, committed some of his crimes in campus
buildings and while he was employed by the school.  Five Counts  Spanier was charged in November with five counts including
endangering the welfare of a child in connection with a 2001 sex
abuse allegation against Sandusky. Timothy Curley, a former Penn
State athletic director, and  Gary Schultz , an ex-vice president
in charge of university police, were also charged with
additional crimes that month. Both men had previously been
charged with perjury in connection with the 2001 incident.  Freeh’s report, released after a seven-month investigation,
found that red flags involving Sandusky were numerous and that
Spanier and others ignored them in order to avoid bad publicity.  Attorneys for Spanier have called the findings a “flat-out
distortion of facts” infused with bias and innuendo.  A state court judge has scheduled a preliminary hearing for
Spanier, Curley and Schultz beginning July 29 to determine
whether there’s enough evidence to hold them for trial. All
three are out on bail.  The case is Spanier v. Freeh, 2013-2707, Court of Common
Pleas of Centre County (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  