-- Mexico’s Peso Advances as Federal Reserve Tapering Concern Eases
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-07-11T15:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/mexico-s-peso-advances-as-federal-reserve-tapering-concern-eases.html
Mexico ’s peso rose for the first
time in three days after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called for maintaining a U.S. stimulus program that has
boosted demand for the Latin American country’s securities.  The currency increased 0.3 percent to 12.8577 per dollar at
10 a.m. in Mexico City. Yields on benchmark local-currency bonds
due in 2024 declined 13 basis points, 0.13 percentage point, to
5.76 percent.  The peso rallied as Bernanke commented yesterday on the
Fed’s stimulus program, Eduardo Rodriguez, a currency trader at
Casa de Bolsa Finamex SAB, said in a telephone interview from
Guadalajara, Mexico. “Definitely, this caused the peso to
increase because of our rates, because of our rate
differential,” he said.  Bernanke called yesterday for maintaining the asset
purchases, saying in response to a question after a speech that
“highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the  U.S. economy .” The minutes of
the U.S. central bank’s June meeting published yesterday showed
that many of the policy makers wanted to see more signs that
employment is improving before scaling back the bond buying.  The yield on Mexico’s 2024 bonds has risen 1.28 percentage
points from a record low on May 9 amid investor concern that the
Fed will taper stimulus. Foreign investors had boosted peso debt
holdings to a record high earlier this year in part to profit
from the country’s higher rates.  All 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg are projecting that
policy makers will keep Mexico’s target rate at 4 percent
tomorrow, compared with benchmark borrowing costs of virtually
zero in developed nations.  Bernanke Outlook  Bernanke said that while the Fed’s bond buying has made
progress in achieving the goal of “a substantial improvement in
the outlook for the labor market in the context of  price
stability ,” efforts “still have further to go.”  First-time U.S. jobless claims rose by 16,000 to 360,000 in
the week ended July 6 from a revised 344,000, Labor Department
figures showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of 47
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a drop to 340,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  