-- Fabulous Fab Trial Revisits Subprime Crisis 6 Years On
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   S u m m e r s
-- 2013-07-11T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/fabulous-fab-trial-revisits-subprime-crisis-6-years-on.html
After the allegations, he kept his
head down. He testified succinctly before Congress, left his 
job to enroll in a doctoral program, and popped up in  Africa  
doing charity work.  This is the new Fabrice Tourre who will walk into 
Manhattan federal court July 15. But it will be his old self 
-- the French-accented Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker who sent 
a series of gleeful e-mails as the financial products he helped
create were imploding -- who goes on trial over civil claims of
securities fraud.  “The whole building is about to collapse anytime now,”
Tourre, then 28 and a mid-level bank employee, wrote in January 
2007, as the subprime mortgage market was beginning its 
meltdown. “Only potential survivor, the fabulous Fab...standing 
in the middle of all these complex, highly levered, exotic 
trades he created without necessarily understanding all the 
implications of those monstruosities!!!”  In later messages, Tourre called the derivatives he was
selling “a product of pure intellectual masturbation” and
likened a collateralized-debt obligation, or CDO, to a “little
Frankenstein turning against his own inventor.”  On one particular synthetic CDO, known as Abacus 2007-AC1,
investors betting on mortgage bonds lost more than $1 billion.  SEC Suit  In 2010, the Securities and Exchange Commission sued New
York-based Goldman Sachs and Tourre for fraud for concealing the
role of the hedge fund Paulson & Co., founded by billionaire John 
Paulson, in selecting the assets inside the Abacus portfolio -- 
assets Paulson wanted to fail.  Goldman Sachs paid a then-record $550 million fine to
settle the allegations. Tourre chose to fight them. U.S. 
District Judge Katherine Forrest, who will oversee the trial, 
summed up the SEC’s case like this: “Tourre handed Little Red 
Riding Hood an invitation to grandmother’s house while 
concealing the fact that it was written by the Big Bad Wolf.”  Tourre faces fines and a possible ban from the securities
industry. In court papers, Tourre claims those who lost money on
Abacus were sophisticated institutions that guessed wrong on the
direction of the home mortgage market. He said he never misled
investors and claims the SEC has failed to put forward enough
evidence to allow a jury to find him liable.  ‘Vampire Squid’  And he claims it was well-known at the time that Paulson
was betting against securities backed by subprime-mortgages.
Paulson wasn’t accused of wrongdoing.  Tourre’s trial has taken on larger symbolic importance
because he’s one of the few bankers to ever appear in court over
alleged wrongdoing tied to the financial crisis.  When the SEC announced its allegations in 2010, the Tourre
case seemed to crystallize the public perception that big banks,
and Goldman Sachs in particular, were in the business of ripping
off their clients and profiting as Americans lost their homes
and their jobs.  Goldman Sachs had just been indelibly tagged by Rolling
Stone writer Matt Taibbi as “a great vampire squid wrapped
around the face of humanity, relentlessly jamming its blood
funnel into anything that smells like money.”  There was speculation that Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein wouldn’t survive Abacus. Then his decision to settle
the suit in July 2010, for an amount equal to only two weeks of
the bank’s 2010 operating profit, stopped the scandal in its
tracks and cleared the way for other banks to feel the public’s
wrath.  London Whale  In 2012, JPMorgan Chase & Co. proved with its $6 billion
London Whale trading debacle that even after the financial
crisis the best-regarded banks were still capable of letting
their risk management get spectacularly out of hand.  Later that year, employees at Barclays Plc, Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc, UBS AG and other banks were found to be
manipulating the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a key
benchmark that affects what individuals and municipalities
around the world pay to borrow money.  Tourre’s court date threatens to undo some of the progress
Goldman Sachs has made in rehabilitating its image. In the lead-up to his trial, the bank and its former employee have exhibited
an awkward arm’s-length relationship. Goldman Sachs is paying
for Tourre’s defense and for the use of a sophisticated public-relations team from Sard Verbinnen & Co., but the bank is
limited by the terms of its SEC settlement in what it can say
publicly about the Abacus deal.  Mortgage Products  A Goldman Sachs spokesman declined to comment for this
article. Tourre is also expected to call as witnesses current
and former Goldman Sachs employees, in an effort to show that he
was merely part of a team that constructed and sold mortgage
products and doesn’t deserve to be singled out.  On that point, Tourre is drawing some unlikely support.  “This is so clearly a case of scapegoating,” said Dennis Kelleher, CEO of Better Markets, an advocacy group that has
lobbied for the overhaul of financial regulations. “It’s one of
the most egregious misuses of SEC power I’ve ever seen.”  Without saying whether Tourre had violated the law on
Abacus or not, Kelleher said it’s unfair for him alone to face
charges. “Frankly, this trial is Exhibit A demonstrating the
complete and gross dereliction of duty of the Department of
Justice, the SEC, and every other public official in this
country for not holding anyone responsible for the egregious
crimes and wrongdoing that brought on the financial crisis,”
Kelleher said. A spokesman for the SEC declined to comment.  Securities Prosecutor  Tourre’s legal team will be led by Allen & Overy LLP
partner  Pamela Chepiga , a former chief of the unit that
prosecutes federal securities crimes in New York, and John
“Sean” Coffey, another former federal prosecutor.  Tourre has lost several pretrial motions in recent weeks
that may complicate his defense.  In rulings last month, Judge Forrest barred one of Tourre’s
two expert witnesses from testifying and sharply limited the
testimony of the other. She also said Tourre can’t place “undue
focus” on the fact that lawyers reviewed the transaction, but
he may try to show jurors that he wasn’t the person primarily
responsible for it.  While Tourre is expected to call Goldman Sachs colleagues
and even Paulson to the stand, he will be the star witness. When
he’s questioned by the SEC, Tourre will have to contend with
those memorable e-mails.  Matthew Martens, the lawyer leading the SEC’s case, told
Forrest on July 9 that the agency plans to use the messages in
its opening statement.  Tourre Victory  “There’s no other way to tell his state of mind, other
than what he was writing at the time,” Martens said.  A Tourre victory would allow Goldman Sachs to put the
financial crisis that much further behind it and deal a setback
to the SEC’s efforts to call bank employees to account for
bringing the U.S. economy to the brink of disaster.  If Tourre loses, the agency’s trophy will be a small one,
according to Jeff Connaughton, author of “The Payoff: Why Wall
Street Always Wins,” and a former chief of staff to ex-U.S.
Senator Ted Kaufman, a Delaware Democrat.  “President Obama let all of Wall Street walk,” he said.
“But the Fabulous Fab is the guy who got his foot caught in the
door.”  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Summers in New York at   nsummers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 