-- Farm Bill Minus Food-Aid Section Ready for House Vote
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-07-11T03:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/farm-bill-minus-food-aid-section-ready-for-house-vote.html
House Republican leaders will
attempt to go it alone on a farm-policy bill, betting they can
pull 218 votes from within their own party for a five-year
extension of agriculture subsidies.  The bill they intend to bring to the floor, H.R. 2642,
omits language to renew food-aid programs for the poor. That
decision breaks up the urban-rural coalition that has
successfully negotiated similar bills for decades.  “They are ignoring the advice of most of the groups
affected by the bill and I see no clear path to getting a bill
passed by the House and Senate and signed by the President,”
said  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , the top Democrat on the House
Agriculture Committee.  More than 530 groups with a stake in farm policy had urged
House Speaker  John Boehner  in a July 2 letter not to split  food
stamps  from crop subsidies.  Republicans said they were left with few options after the
defeat of an earlier bill, H.R. 1947. It was rejected 195-234,
with many Democrats citing its $20.5 billion in projected cuts
to domestic food aid over 10 years. Only 24 Democrats voted for
it while 172 opposed it.  The new approach is risky. Some small-government advocacy
groups said they don’t like the possibility that a later House-Senate conference committee could go its own way.  “We highly suspect that this whole process is a ‘rope-a-dope’ exercise” of “splitting up the farm bill only as a means
to get to conference with the Senate where a bicameral back-room
deal will reassemble the commodity and food stamp titles,
leaving us back where we started,” one of those groups, the
Club for Growth, said in a statement.  White House officials also say they would recommend the
president veto the measure, saying it lacks “sufficient
commodity and crop insurance reforms” and “fails to
reauthorize nutrition programs.”  Permanent Change  Republicans working to round up votes for the new bill said
they were stressing that it’s built to avoid the expiration of
farm programs in the future. It would repeal language that lets
federal policy revert to provisions first established in 1938
and 1949, when the nation and its farm economy were quite
different.  The threat of allowing those old laws to resume has been
one of the forces prodding Congress to modernize farm-subsidy
and farm-loan programs, since the laws set terms that could
double the wholesale price of milk in 2014.  “The one we pass now would be the permanent law,” Texas
Republican Michael Conaway said in an interview.  Beyond that, the bill is basically the same as the previous
farm bill; it would end direct payments to U.S. farmers and
expand a crop insurance-based crop safety net.  Two Years  The legislation, which benefits crop-buyers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , grocers including  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  and
insurers including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , has been working through
Congress for almost two years.  The Senate on June 10 passed S. 954, a plan that would cost
$955 billion over a decade. Current law begins to expire Sept.
30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  