-- Father Cancels Tiramisu to Cable Under Pentagon Furloughs
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-07-11T19:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/father-cancels-tiramisu-to-cable-under-pentagon-furloughs.html
(Corrects place of military service in fourth paragraph.)  Ted Gold, a technician at the
Letterkenny Army Depot in south-central  Pennsylvania , has
dropped cable television service and plans fewer summer outings
with his 6-year-old son for amusement rides at Hersheypark.  The father, who’s separated from his wife, is adjusting his
own budget in anticipation of the unpaid Fridays he’s being
forced to take starting this week as the Pentagon imposes
budget-cutting furloughs on 651,542 civilian employees in the
U.S. and abroad.  “What it means to me is my discretionary fund money every
month is gone,” Gold, 47, said over coffee at Cafe d’Italia
across from the courthouse in Chambersburg, the town nearest the
depot. Gold, who said he wasn’t speaking for the Army or the
depot, said, “Guess what I’m doing this summer? Not buying
anything.”  Gold, a military veteran whose service included Army duty
in  Kosovo  in 2003-2004, said he has been working at the depot
for the last 18 months. A technician who works on precision
calibration equipment, Gold said he’ll do more cooking at home
and cut out his weekend indulgence: the tiramisu served at the
cafe on the Main Street.  Under the Defense Department’s furloughs, 85 percent of its
civilian employees will work 11 fewer days through September,
saving about $1.8 billion of the $37 billion it must cut under
the budget process called sequestration.  Virginia Impact  The hardest-hit state will be  Virginia , where smaller
paychecks for 71,827 defense workers will have an estimated
economic impact of about $237 million. Pennsylvania ranks 10th
among states facing the biggest Pentagon furloughs, with 21,660
civilian employees losing about $71.5 million from the cuts.  With about 3,600 workers, Letterkenny is the largest
employer in Franklin County. Its employee salaries and contracts
provide about $250 million a year to the region’s economy,
according to the depot’s  website .  In Chambersburg, a borough of about 20,000 people five
miles (8 kilometers) from Letterkenny, business leaders say the
furloughs are causing apprehension that an era of declining
Pentagon spending may be a bad omen for the depot, which repairs
and upgrades military equipment, from aviation ground-power
units to Patriot missile interceptors.  “I don’t want to minimize the effect of a 20 percent pay
cut,” David Sciamanna, president of the Greater Chambersburg
Chamber of Commerce, said of the furloughs. “But in the global
scheme of things, the discussion in  Washington  about another
round” of base closings “is much more concerning than the
furloughs.”  War Equipment  The wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  kept Letterkenny busy.
Even while the U.S. economy was struggling in 2008, work at the
depot was growing, Sciamanna said in a phone interview. “They
do a lot of work on equipment that gets blown up in the war.”  With the wars ending and defense budgets under pressure
from rising deficits, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel asked
Congress in April to authorize another round of Base Realignment
and Closure, or BRAC, in 2015.  So far, congressional defense committees have spurned his
call for more of the politically unpopular base closings.
Pressure may build if President  Barack Obama  and Congress don’t
revive moribund efforts to stop sequestration for coming years.  Hagel said in a letter to lawmakers yesterday that the $52
billion in “abrupt, deep” cuts scheduled for fiscal 2014 would
force the Pentagon to “buy fewer ships, planes, ground
vehicles, satellites and other weapons.”  Depot Size  The Letterkenny depot was reduced in size as part of the
Pentagon’s 1995 base-closing plan, with about 1,000 jobs cut,
Sciamanna said. Although  the depot  gained some jobs in the 2005
round of closings and consolidations, there’s still concern
about what the future may bring, he said.  Chambersburg has always been resilient, said Mayor Peter
Lagiovane. A painting hanging over his office desk depicts the
town being burned down in July 1864 by Confederate troops over
unpaid ransom for alleged outrages committed by Union soldiers.  The town was rebuilt and now celebrates its burning with a
laser show each July, Lagiovane said. This year, its shops and
restaurants are benefiting from visitors on their way to
commemoration of the 150th anniversary of the Civil War battle
at Gettysburg, 26 miles to the east.  Thanks in part to Summit Health, a nonprofit community
hospital that’s the largest employer in Chambersburg, the town
may be able to weather any setback from the federal furloughs,
Lagiovane said. Trucking and warehousing operations along the
Interstate 81 corridor also keep the local economy going, he
said.  Piling Up  For employees at the depot, though, the furlough’s effects
are immediate, including the prospect of work piling up as
employees take their mandatory days off.  The “workload is still there, so getting it done in the
same time frame is a challenge,” said Lindsay Bryant, a
spokeswoman for the depot.  Combined with a hiring freeze and planned retirements,
furloughs “dump more work on others who are still here,” said
Deborah Witherspoon, a management analyst at Letterkenny.  Witherspoon, 59, said the furloughs will cost her about
$600 a month in lost wages.  “I personally worry about how to buy groceries, pay for
 gas  and mortgage and all that stuff,” Witherspoon, who’s also a
local union officer at the National Federation of Federal
Employees, said in a phone interview.  A few colleagues at the depot are worried about caring for
their sick children, and single parents are concerned about
paying for summer day care, said Witherspoon, who’s worked there
since 1981.  For Gold, the technician, it’s already a few-frills season.  “I returned my cable box -- rather have that money,” he
said. “I kept my phone and Internet. Instead of cable, I’d
rather pay $7.99 for Netflix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  