-- Fed’s Tapering to Aim at Ensuring Housing Recovery: Economy
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-07-11T20:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/fed-s-tapering-to-aim-at-ensuring-u-s-housing-recovery-economy.html
When Federal Reserve policy makers
start to curb $85 billion in monthly bond buying, possibly
before the end of the year, the last thing they want to do is
spoil the nascent U.S. housing recovery.  That means the Fed may concentrate first on trimming
purchases of Treasuries, while continuing to buy mortgage bonds
to keep a lid on interest rates for home loans.  “There is a valid case to slow down Treasury purchases
before MBS purchases,” said Roberto Perli, a partner at
Cornerstone Macro LP in  Washington  and a former economist for
the Fed’s division of monetary affairs. “The recent sharp
increase in mortgage rates poses a threat to the housing
recovery, and a continued housing recovery is necessary if the
economy is to stay on a more robust trajectory.”  Policy makers led by Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke have said
in the last two months that the central bank’s mortgage-backed
securities program has helped the economy, with Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren  urging reduction first in Treasury
buying and San Francisco Fed’s John Williams saying mortgage
buying was “more powerful.”  Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s June 18-19
meeting, released yesterday, showed about half of the 19
participants wanted to halt bond purchases by year end. At the
same time, the minutes showed many Fed officials wanted to see
more signs employment is improving before backing a slowing in
the pace of the purchases, known as quantitative easing.
Bernanke said in a speech hours later that the U.S. economy
needs “highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future.”  Stocks Rally  Stocks rallied, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
above its record closing level, and bonds advanced on Bernanke’s
comments. The S&P 500 gained 1.4 percent to 1,675.02 at the
close in New York.  The European Central Bank provided guidance similar to the
Fed’s in a statement today saying its commitment to keep
interest rates low for an extended period of time uses a
“flexible horizon” and will depend on the euro area’s economic
performance.  The latest reading on the U.S. labor market showed the
number of Americans filing for unemployment  benefits 
unexpectedly increased by 16,000 to a two-month high of 360,000
last week, during a period when applications fluctuate because
of automobile plant shutdowns and the Independence Day holiday.  Consumer sentiment climbed for a fourth straight week,
reaching the highest level in more than five years as Americans
grew more upbeat about their finances, according to the
Bloomberg  Consumer Comfort (COMFCOMF)  Index.  Mortgage Rates  Freddie Mac reported today that the average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate  mortgage  rose to a two-year high of 4.51 percent
in the week ended July 11 from 3.31 percent in November.  Most economists surveyed by Bloomberg on June 19-20 said
the initial tapering by the Fed will include a reduction in
Treasury purchases as well as mortgage bonds, with 36 percent
saying the larger cutback would be in Treasuries, 26 percent
saying MBS and 38 percent predicting they would be pared
equally.  The FOMC said at its most recent meeting it will continue
buying $40 billion in mortgage bonds and $45 billion in
Treasuries each month until the labor market “improves
substantially.” The committee also pledged to keep the main
interest rate near zero so long as the  unemployment rate  remains
above 6.5 percent and the forecast for inflation doesn’t exceed
2.5 percent over one to two years.  No Selling  Most participants in the June meeting expect that the Fed
“would not sell agency mortgage-backed securities” that it
already holds as it scales back quantitative easing, according
to the minutes. The minutes didn’t reflect any discussion on
whether tapering of asset purchases would concentrate first on
either Treasuries or mortgage bonds.  Williams told reporters May 16 that mortgage bonds have
been a particularly effective tool for Fed stimulus.  “The recovery in home prices has all sorts of beneficial
effects,” including “making you feel wealthier,” Williams
said. “Many people have responded to their improved finances by
spending more on a range of goods and services.”  Rosengren has been more explicit, telling Reuters on April
15 that the Fed should reduce Treasury purchases first.  The importance of housing to the recovery may shape the
initial tapering, said Jonathan Wright, an economics professor
at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore who worked at the Fed’s
division of monetary affairs from 2004 until 2008.  QE Skeptics  “The center of the committee would probably like to taper
Treasuries first, but it is a committee that likes to try to
achieve consensus,” he said. “The motivation would be not to
snuff out the rebound in housing. My guess would be they taper
both but maybe a bit more on Treasuries.”  Several Fed presidents including Richmond’s Jeffrey Lacker,
Philadelphia’s Charles Plosser and  Dallas ’s Richard Fisher, who
have been skeptical of the effectiveness of quantitative easing,
have urged that Fed move away from mortgage-backed securities
because the holdings amount to targeting a particular industry.  “It is true the Fed thinks the MBS has been quite
instrumental in lowering of mortgage rates,” said  Millan Mulraine , director of U.S. rates research at TD Securities USA
LLC in New York. “The Fed has to weigh that against the fact
that over time it wants to move to an all-Treasuries
portfolio.”  Some on the FOMC say buying mortgage securities “is a
misguided policy and making a credit allocation decision for the
Fed,” Mulraine said. “They are going to draw the line
between” Treasuries and mortgage bonds.  Sequestration Effect  Housing is helping offset weakness stemming from government
spending reductions known as sequestration, which began in
March, and a payroll-tax increase at the start of the year.
Residential investment could contribute 0.5 percentage point to
gross domestic product growth in 2013, New York Fed President
William C. Dudley said in April.  Applications to build one-family homes increased to a
622,000 annualized pace in May, the fastest since May 2008, the
Commerce Department reported June 18. Home  prices  in the 12
months through April rose 12.1 percent, the most in more than
seven years, the S&P/Case-Shiller index showed June 25.  At first, higher mortgage rates “stimulate demand, because
some buyers who are currently hesitating or procrastinating will
feel that they had better buy now,” said Brad Hunter, Palm
Beach Gardens, Florida-based chief economist for housing
research firm Metrostudy. As rates rise further, people may buy
“either a smaller home or a home in a more remote location”
and builders’ price increases could be limited, he said.  Housing Starts  Single-family  housing starts  are likely to rise 18 percent
to a 632,000 pace in 2013 from a year earlier, and by another 26
percent to 796,000 in 2014, said Hunter.  Atlanta homebuilder FrontDoor Communities plans to double
its construction to 100 homes valued at $40 million this year,
and double that again in 2014, said Chief Executive Officer
Terry Russell. The company is building in Naples and Orlando,
 Florida , Charleston, South Carolina, and Atlanta.  “We are in a full recovery, no doubt about it,” he said.
“You are seeing good pent-up demand from people who were on the
sidelines for five years. I think the industry has got three
good years in front of it. Some people would say five.”  Recent strength in the housing market as well as the
commitment not to sell MBS may push the Fed to divide its
tapering, said Nathan Sheets, former global head of the Fed’s
international-finance division and now global head of
international economics at Citigroup in New York.  “The housing market seems red hot” and Fed policy makers
could question whether the rebound needs further fuel, he said.
Still, the mix probably hasn’t been nailed down. “The decision
regarding composition of asset purchases will very much be
determined by the economic conditions prevailing at the time,
particularly the performance of the housing market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  