-- Fed’s Duke to Resign Aug. 31 After Five Years as Governor
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-07-11T18:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/fed-s-duke-resigns-effective-aug-31-after-five-years-on-board.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Elizabeth Duke , a former community banker who focused on regulation, plans
to resign her seat effective Aug. 31.  Duke, who never dissented from a Federal Open Market
Committee decision, submitted her letter of resignation to
President  Barack Obama  and made no announcement about her future
plans, the Fed said in a  statement  today in  Washington .  “Betsy has made invaluable contributions to the Federal
Reserve and to the country during her five years at the Board,”
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in the statement. “She
brought fresh ideas grounded in her deep knowledge of the
banking industry and the real-world dynamic between borrowers
and lenders.”  Duke’s departure creates another opportunity for Obama to
leave his stamp on the Fed’s seven-member board. The president
also needs to choose who will lead the central bank after the
expiration of Bernanke’s second term on Jan. 31. Duke, 60, took
office in 2008 and is the only governor not appointed or
reappointed by Obama. Her term expired on Jan. 31, 2012, and she
continued to serve in the absence of a replacement.  “I am especially gratified to have brought my own
practical banking experience and community banking perspective
to the massive overhaul of financial system regulation that was
required by the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act,” Duke said in
her  letter to Obama . “The Federal Reserve has worked with other
regulators to craft a regulatory framework that will ensure a
resilient financial system.”  ‘Valued Service’  Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, posted a message
on Twitter saying Obama “is grateful to Elizabeth Duke for her
years of valued service” at the Fed in Washington. While House
Press Secretary Jay Carney said he has no announcements to make
on a replacement. He declined to say whether there would be any
effort by the president to nominate a successor before the
August recess of Congress.  Duke, a graduate of the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, had aspired to be an actress yet started a career
in banking with a job as a part-time drive-through teller
because she “needed a job,” according to a  speech  she gave in
January 2012 at the University of Richmond in  Virginia .  She then joined a small community bank and became chief
executive of its 11 employees, after the president of the bank,
her mentor, died of a heart attack, according to her speech. She
later served on the Richmond Fed’s board of directors and became
the first female chairman of the American Bankers Association.  ‘Main Street’  “She brought to the Fed something that the board should
always have and that’s someone who has strong practical banking
and community lending experience,” said Ed Yingling, a partner
at Covington & Burling LLP in Washington and a former ABA
president. “I’m sure Ben Bernanke appreciated the advice she
gave him during her tenure. She helped all of them understand
what’s happening on Main Street.”  Duke served as a banking executive at SouthTrust Bank,
Wachovia Corp. and as chief operating officer of TowneBank, a
Virginia-based community bank. She was a director at the
Richmond Fed from 1998 to 2000, and from 2004 to 2005 she served
as chairman of the ABA, the Washington-based trade group.  Duke was  nominated  by President George W. Bush to join the
Fed board and won confirmation from the Senate, beginning her
term on August 5, 2008, just one month before the financial
crisis intensified when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. roiled
global markets by filing the largest bankruptcy in U.S. history.  Hands-On Experience  “The board was enriched by having someone who could add to
the fabric of discussion because of her practical, hands-on,
real-world, day-to-day experience,” said Eugene Ludwig, chief
executive officer of Promontory Financial Group LLC, a
Washington-based consulting firm, and a former U.S. Comptroller
of the Currency. “The board needs important and globally
prominent economists but having a governor or two with this
practical experience has always proved to be a big plus.”  While Duke didn’t dissent on monetary policy, she did
dissent in December 2008 from a decision to approve GMAC LLC’s
conversion to a bank holding company. The decision allowed the
auto lender to tap U.S. financial bailout programs and help keep
the automaker then known as General Motors Corp. in business.  In her speeches, she often discussed conditions at
community banks and along with Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin 
served on the board’s subcommittee overseeing supervision of
community and small regional banking organizations.  Swipe Fees  Duke also disagreed with her Fed colleagues when they
instituted a cap on debit card swipe fees at 21 cents. She
argued that the cap was likely to harm small banks and raise the
costs for checking-account holders. Setting a cap was required
by the Dodd-Frank financial regulation law.  Governors Jeremy Stein and Jerome Powell joined the board
in May 2012, bringing it to a full contingent of seven for the
first time since 2006.  Members of the board include: Bernanke, Stein and Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen, all economists; Daniel Tarullo, a former
professor at the Georgetown University Law Center; Raskin, a
former top bank regulator for  Maryland ; and Powell, an attorney
and private equity investor who was a Treasury undersecretary
for President George H.W. Bush.  -- With assistance from Roger Runningen in Washington. Editors:
James Tyson, Mark Rohner  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  