-- Final MLB All-Star Spots Go to Freeman, Delabar as Puig Left Out
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-12T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/final-mlb-all-star-spots-go-to-freeman-delabar-as-puig-left-out.html
Atlanta Braves first baseman Freddie Freeman and Toronto Blue Jays reliever Steve Delabar were voted
into the Major League Baseball All-Star Game as rosters were
completed for the contest next week in New York.  Freeman earned the final National League spot ahead of Los
Angeles Dodgers rookie outfielder Yasiel Puig, who had hit .394
with eight home runs and 27 runs scored in 35 games since being
called up last month. No player has ever appeared on an All-Star
roster having played fewer than 40 MLB games.  Fans determined the “ Final Vote ” by casting ballots
online, through text message and on Twitter. The All-Star Game
is July 16 at Citi Field in Flushing, Queens.  Puig, 22, finished second in NL voting, followed by San
Francisco Giants outfielder  Hunter Pence , Washington Nationals
shortstop Ian Desmond and Dodgers first baseman  Adrian Gonzalez .  New York Yankees relief pitcher Dave Robertson was second
in the American League voting, followed by relievers Joaquin Benoit of the  Detroit Tigers , Koji Uehara of the  Boston Red Sox 
and Tanner Scheppers of the Texas Rangers.  Freeman, 23, went 3-for-4 last night in Atlanta’s 6-5 win
against the Cincinnati Reds and is hitting .313 with nine home
runs and 60 runs batted in this season. Delabar, 29, is 5-1 with
a 1.74 earned run average and 57 strikeouts in 41 1/3 innings.  Baseball also announced yesterday that Tampa Bay Rays
pitcher  Matt Moore  will replace Rangers pitcher  Yu Darvish  on
the AL roster. Darvish was placed on the 15-day disabled list
with a strained muscle in his back.  -- Editor: Rob Gloster  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  