-- Finra Board Approves Analyst Conflict Disclosures in Debt Market
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-07-11T21:52:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/finra-board-approves-analyst-conflict-disclosures-in-debt-market.html
The Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority voted to require debt analysts to disclose the same
conflict-of-interest information they make known to equity
investors.  The board of directors of the industry-funded regulatory
group approved the measure today, which was first proposed in
February 2012, according to  a notice  on its website. Debt
research intended for institutional investors, who are viewed as
more sophisticated users of the market, received some exemptions
from the new rules. The Securities and Exchange Commission must
approve the measure before it goes into effect.  Ten of the world’s largest banks agreed in 2003 to pay $1.4
billion to settle charges that they misled equity investors with
biased research tailored to win investment banking business.
Later that year, Merrill Lynch & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  won dismissal of
lawsuits accusing them of deceptive research.  The  rules  seek to prohibit analysts’ communication with
trading desks so that research isn’t used to influence buying or
selling by the firm and to restrict traders from trying to
influence analyst opinions, according to the Finra draft rule
text. They also include required disclosures by analysts on
whether they or their family members own the debt security being
discussed when they appear in public to speak about their work.  Exemptions were provided for analysts working for firms
that engage in limited investment banking activity or that don’t
trade with their own money above a certain threshold, Finra
said. The disclosures are also limited for debt research
distributed exclusively to institutional investors who are
capable of “evaluating investment risks independently, both in
general and with regard to particular transactions and
investment strategies,” the draft text said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  