-- Freeing-Up Yuan, Bank Profit Hoarding, Mexico: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/freeing-up-yuan-bank-profit-hoarding-mexico-compliance.html
China’s central bank released rules
allowing companies to move  yuan  abroad more freely as the
authorities seek to bolster global use of the nation’s currency.  Companies can now open yuan accounts with local banks
through which they can lend in the currency to overseas
affiliated companies, the  People’s Bank of China  said in a
 statement  posted on its website July 9. The so-called yuan-pool
lending business can be shared between subsidiaries or
affiliated firms under one company, the central bank said.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, has promoted the
role of the yuan in international trade and financing as it
moves to reduce control over the currency and open up its
financial markets. That effort has included expanding channels
for cross-border capital flows and foreign investments and
setting up direct trading of the yuan with more currencies.  Chinese authorities earlier allowed companies to lend yuan
to their affiliates as part of a trial program.  The central bank also said July 9 it will allow companies
to move yuan raised overseas back into China through yuan
accounts with local lenders. Companies may also provide yuan-denominated guarantees for their foreign operations, according
to the statement.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Banks Seen Freezing Payouts as Harsher Leverage Rules Loom  The biggest U.S. banks, after years of building equity, may
continue hoarding profits instead of boosting  dividends  as they
face stricter capital rules than foreign competitors.  The eight largest firms, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , would need to retain capital equal to at least 5
percent of assets, while their banking units would have to hold
a minimum of 6 percent, U.S. regulators proposed July 9. The
international equivalent, ignoring the riskiness of assets, is 3
percent. The banks have until 2018 to fully comply.  The U.S. plan goes beyond rules approved by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  to prevent a repeat of the 2008
crisis, which almost destroyed the financial system. The changes
would make lenders fund more assets with capital that can absorb
 losses  instead of using borrowed money. Bankers say this could
trigger asset sales and hurt their ability to lend, hamstringing
the nation’s economic recovery.  Morgan Stanley and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  currently
have the lowest ratio of equity to assets of the eight banks,
according to estimates from analysts. Investors may get more
information when the banks report second-quarter results,
beginning July 12.  September data from the largest banks show their holding
companies fell short of the new leverage requirement by $63
billion, according to the joint proposal by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.,  Federal Reserve  and Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency. Insured lending units would need $89 billion
more capital. The firms can fill the gaps by retaining profits
and without selling more stock, the regulators said.  The changes would affect U.S. companies with assets
exceeding $700 billion or those with custody of more than $10
trillion of customer assets. Besides JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley
and BNY Mellon, the affected lenders include  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Wells Fargo & Co., (WFC)   Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America
Corp.  and Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT)   Bankers have resisted the stricter capital standards,
saying that lending might be curtailed and that the remedies
adopted after the financial crisis, such as the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act, should be given time to work.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  U.S. Crackdown on Debt Collectors Takes Aim at Large Banks  Banks supervised by the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau now face penalties if they mistreat consumers while
collecting debts, the latest move in a broader crackdown on
debt-collection practices the agency has pursued since last
year.  The new policy, which follows efforts to rein in abusive
credit-card and lending policies, will plug a gap in federal
anti-harassment law that generally excluded creditors who
collected debt themselves, rather than hiring third parties.  Regulators at the state and local level are also
considering a mixture of legal action and regulation to
restructure an industry that generated hundreds of thousands of
consumer complaints about harassment by bill collectors as
recession-hit Americans struggled to pay down debt.  Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller  is leading a multistate
effort that is “in the early stages” of determining how the
states could foster changes to how credit-card issuers and
collectors who buy charged-off debt keep track of consumer
information. Many complaints stem from attempts to collect a
non-existent debt, or one that’s already been repaid.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, created by the
Dodd-Frank law of 2010, supervises banks with assets over $10
billion, ranging from JPMorgan to regional players like
Lafayette, Louisiana-based  Iberiabank Corp. (IBKC) , for compliance with
federal consumer-protection rules. It also oversees non-bank
financial firms, such as credit bureaus, payday lenders and debt
collectors.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Hearings/Conferences  SEC Votes to Lift Ban on Hedge-Fund Advertising  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission conducted an
open meeting on a rule that would allow  hedge funds  and other
companies seeking private investments to advertise publicly for
funding.  The rule, which passed in a 4-1 vote, is the first one
mandated by last year’s Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act to
be completed by the SEC.  The commission also approved a new proposal, on a 3-2 vote,
that seeks to monitor how advertising is used and whether it
contributes to more fraud. The SEC also approved a rule that
blocks felons and others found culpable of securities-law
violations from marketing private offers.  For the video, click here.  Banks May Shrink Balance Sheets on Rules, Fink Says  Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) , talked about investment strategy, financial regulation,
and the outlook for global bonds.  Fink, who spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Sara Eisen on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers,” also discussed Federal
Reserve monetary policy.  For the video, click here.  Mexico Oil Monopoly Ending to Pemex as JPMorgan Backs Reform  Mexico is on the cusp of opening its  energy industry  to
outside investment as a wide consensus has developed that the
constitution must be changed to end the government’s monopoly on
production, according to a board member of state-controlled oil
producer  Petroleos Mexicanos .  The country needs “very deep” reforms to lure investment
to its natural gas and crude fields after eight years of
declining oil output, and proposed changes could be ready by the
end of summer, Hector Moreira, who also is a former official in
the country’s Energy Ministry, said yesterday at the Bloomberg
Mexico Conference in New York. A congressional bill to open the
oil monopoly would prompt as much as $50 billion in annual
investments if approved, he said.  Much-needed changes will open the way for faster growth and
a stronger currency in the region’s second-largest economy,  Gray
Newman , Morgan Stanley’s chief Latin American economist, said at
the event. Officials from JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Grupo
Financiero Banorte said they’re optimistic President Enrique
Pena Nieto will lead a successful effort at reforms this year.  A slowdown in economic expansion is putting pressure on
Pena Nieto to gain approval to open the energy industry and
change laws to boost tax collection, reforms he says may lift
growth to 6 percent.  Pena Nieto said his administration will send bills to
overhaul energy and tax policies to lawmakers when regular
congressional sessions resume in September.  For more, click here.  Separately at the conference, Mexico’s Deputy Finance
Minister Fernando Aportela talked about the country’s economy,
banking industry and currency.  He spoke with John McCorry,  Bloomberg News ’s executive
editor of the Americas.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Juncker to Submit His Government’s Resignation Today  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the European
Union’s longest-serving head of government and a European
finance leader, said yesterday that he’ll submit his
government’s resignation today after being implicated in a probe
into spying by his security service.  Juncker, 58, who led the group of euro-area finance
ministers until January, is “politically responsible” for his
failure to inform lawmakers of “irregularities and supposed
illegalities” by the State Intelligence Service, according to a
July 5 report by the country’s legislature.  He made the announcement yesterday at the end of a debate
in parliament in Luxembourg. He faced a no-confidence vote in
parliament after he was implicated in a probe into spying by his
security service.  Juncker, 58, who led the group of  euro-area finance
ministers  until January, is “politically responsible” for his
failure to inform lawmakers of “irregularities and supposed
illegalities” by the State Intelligence Service, according to a
July 5 report by the country’s legislature.  Parliament  called Juncker to testify yesterday in a session
that began at 2 p.m. in Luxembourg yesterday. He concluded about
two hours of testimony by denying allegations that he had used
the secret service to further his own aims and those of his
Christian Social People’s Party.  The secret service is accused of irregularities and
possible illegal activities, especially during the period from
2004 to 2008, according to the report. Juncker challenged such
assertions yesterday.  A Luxembourg government minister since 1984 and prime
minister since 1995, Juncker has been a driving force on the
single currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  