-- Gassled Investors Take Action Against Norway Over Tariff Cut
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-07-11T13:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/gassled-investors-take-legal-action-against-norway-on-tariff-cut.html
Investors owning almost 39 percent
of  Norway ’s gas transport infrastructure said they’re taking
legal action against Norway’s government over a decision to
reduce tariffs for using the country’s Gassled network.  Solveig Gas Norway AS, which owns 24.8 percent of Gassled,
Njord Gas Infrastructure AS, which holds 8 percent, and Silex
Gas Norway AS, which has 6.1 percent, have issued a notice of
claim stating they will take legal action against the Ministry
of Petroleum and Energy, they said today.  The notice records the view that the tariff reduction is
“without legal foundation and should be declared invalid with
any resulting loss compensated,” Solveig and Njord said. Lise
Rist, a spokeswoman at the ministry, declined to comment.  Norway, western  Europe ’s largest gas exporter, said on June
27 it will push through a 90 percent cut in gas pipeline tariffs
that investors in the network have said will lower income by
almost 40 billion kroner ($6.6 billion). Implementation of the
cut, first announced on Jan. 15, was delayed until the 2016 gas
year as a  concession  to investors. The tariff changes will also
exclude the Kvitebjoern and Norne pipelines, the ministry said.  Norway is cutting tariffs charged for access to its
pipeline network to raise profits on gas discoveries and boost
exploration and recovery rates. The plan has been criticised by
investors in the network and their lenders, which include
Canadian pension funds, a UBS AG infrastructure fund and a unit
of  Abu Dhabi ’s sovereign fund, who argue the cut will lower
their returns to 4 percent. The group had projected a minimum
return of 7 percent.  Solveig, Njord and Silex will submit a writ of summons
early this fall, Silex Chief Executive Officer Kurt Georgsen
said by phone. Infragas Norge AS, which owns 5 percent of
Gassled, is still considering whether to join the action, Chief
Executive Officer Knud Noerve said by phone from Oslo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  