-- GE, BofA Lead Drop in Sales of Structured Notes Tied to Rates
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-07-11T17:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/ge-bofa-lead-drop-in-sales-of-structured-notes-tied-to-rates.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Bank of
America Corp.  have all but stopped issuing U.S. structured notes
tied to interest rates, leading a 3.7 percent decline in sales
of the securities this year.  Bank of America’s only such offering in 2013 has been $7.35
million of 10-year notes on June 24, after selling $730.7
million during the same period a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. GE, which issues the securities through
its  GE Capital  Corp. unit, hasn’t sold any since Aug. 2. The two
companies’ issuance accounted for more than a third of the
volume at this time last year.  Investors have held off buying rate-linked securities
because they don’t want to get locked into less favorable terms
in a volatile market, said Bill Pang, manager of derivatives and
structured finance at Toyota Motor Credit Corp. The 10-year
Treasury yield has  risen  to 2.59 percent since Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 19 that the central bank
may slow its $85 billion in monthly securities purchases.  “Given the movements in rates, it’s not surprising to me
that they are on the sidelines waiting for the dust to settle
before getting back into the market,” Torrance, California-based Pang said in a telephone interview. “You don’t want to be
the person who’s buying at 2.5 and see rates go to 3 percent a
week later.”  While yields on 10-year Treasuries have advanced about half
a percentage point since June 14, Bernanke said that the U.S.
needs “highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future” in response to a question after a speech yesterday in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Callable Step-Ups  Investors bought $72.2 million of callable step-up bonds in
June, the slowest month in the U.S. since January 2010, when
Bloomberg began collecting comprehensive data on structured
notes registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Banks have sold $751.4 million of the notes this year, 62
percent less than the year-earlier period.  Callable step-up securities yield a fixed rate that
periodically increases until maturity.  Investors bought a total $3.14 billion of notes tied to
rates this year, down from $3.26 billion a year earlier,
Bloomberg data show.  UBS AG (UBS)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , which together issued
$86.5 million of rate-tied notes during this period in 2012,
haven’t sold any this year, Bloomberg data show.  Higher Sales  Meanwhile, 11 other banks have increased sales, according
to Bloomberg data. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the largest issuer
of the securities by volume, sold $606.2 million of the notes
this year, nearly double the same period last year. Four of its
six biggest offerings have been linked to the difference between
long- and short-dated constant-maturity swaps.  An improving economy, higher corporate profits and the Fed
slowing its stimulus could boost Treasury yields, leading to
more investor interest in riskier notes, such as those tied to a
floating benchmark, said  Millan Mulraine , director of U.S. rates
research for TD Securities USA LLC in  New York .  Bank of America’s only rate-tied notes this year yield 3
percent for the first year, then switch to 1.6 percent more than
the three-month U.S. dollar London interbank offered  rate  to a
maximum of 6 percent annually, according to a prospectus filed
with the SEC. The bank distributed the securities for a 1.75
percent fee.  Zia Ahmed, a spokesman for Bank of America, declined to
comment on the note sales. Tiffany Galvin of Goldman Sachs,
Megan Stinson of UBS, Jan Chessell of Westpac, and  Russell Wilkerson  of GE Capital, didn’t return requests for comment.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  