-- Italian Bonds Drop After Auction as Portuguese Securities Slide
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-07-11T16:03:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/german-government-bonds-advance-as-bernanke-signals-stimulus.html
Italian and Spanish bonds dropped
amid speculation the nations will struggle to attract sufficient
demand from investors at debt auctions as both sell additional
securities this month amid a deteriorating economic outlook.  Italy’s  10-year bonds  dropped for a third day as the
Treasury fell short of its maximum target at an auction and
demand for its 30-year securities declined after Standard &
Poor’s cut the country’s credit rating this week. Portugal’s 10-year bonds slid as President Anibal Cavaco Silva urged
politicians to reach an agreement to let the country complete
its aid program. German bunds rose after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S. still needed stimulus.  “We’ve had quite a lot of supply,” said  Michael Leister ,
an interest-rate strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. There’s
“quite a lot of peripheral paper for the market to digest,” he
said, referring to the bonds of Europe’s most indebted nations.  Italian 10-year bond yields rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 4.47 percent at 5 p.m. London time. The 4.5
percent security due in May 2023 declined 0.125, or 1.25 euros
per 1,000-euro face amount, to 100.63.  The yield on similar-maturity Spanish bonds climbed one
basis point to 4.82 percent, while Portugal’s 10-year rate
increased 13 basis points to 6.90 percent.  Italy’s Treasury sold a combined 6.35 billion euros of
debt, less than its target of 6.5 billion euros. Investors
submitted bids for 1.3 times the 1.46 billion euros of 30-year
bonds on offer, down from 1.97 times at the previous auction of
similar-maturity debt on Feb. 13.  Italy  also auctioned 3.39
billion euros of three-year notes and 1.5 billion euros of
floating-rate securities.  Spain has sold securities maturing in 2016, 2018 and 2028
this month.  Dealers ‘Cautious’  “We suspect market dealers remain cautious” on Italy,
Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in
London, wrote in a note to clients. “The economic outlook is
very fragile and no solid recovery is expected anytime soon.”  Italian and Spanish government bonds declined yesterday
after Standard & Poor’s cut Italy’s long-term credit rating to
BBB, two levels above junk, citing a weakening of the country’s
economic prospects. The outlook on the rating remains negative,
the company said in a statement.  Portugal’s 10-year bonds dropped for a second day as Silva
said early elections were undesirable. The 10-year yield jumped
to a seven-month high of 8.11 percent on July 3, after a rift
among coalition politicians emerged.  Risk ‘Increasing’  “Portuguese risk is increasing,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor,
a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in London.
“There is general uncertainty now about where Portugal goes
from here,” and whether they will need further aid, he said.  German’s 10-year yield fell four basis points to 1.62
percent after dropping to 1.60 percent on July 4, the lowest
level since June 19.  “Highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the U.S. economy,” Bernanke said
yesterday in response to a question after a speech in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  “What Bernanke said is driving core yields down,” said
Alessandro Giansanti, a senior interest-rate strategist at ING
Groep NV in Amsterdam. “The market was aggressively priced for
a change in the stance of the Fed’s monetary policy and so
Bernanke has quashed some of these expectations. That’s why we
see a rally in core bonds.”  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of the France and  Germany ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  French 10-year yields dropped two basis points to 2.23
percent and Dutch 10-year rates declined three basis points to
2.03 percent.  Italian bonds returned 2.4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spanish
securities gained 5.1 percent, while German bonds handed
investors a loss of 1.3 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  