-- German Stocks Advance on Bernanke’s Policy Assurance
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-07-11T15:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/german-stocks-gain-as-bernanke-reiterates-stimulus-need.html
German stocks  climbed, sending the
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  to a three-week high, after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the world’s largest economy will
continue to need stimulus.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and HeidelbergCement AG paced gains in
European steelmakers and construction companies, both rising
more than 2.5 percent.  Lanxess AG (LXS)  climbed with chemical makers
as UBS AG recommended the shares.  Praktiker AG (PRA)  plunged 65
percent after the retailer said it will file for insolvency
today for parts of the group.  The DAX Index rallied 1.1 percent to 8,158.8 at the close
in Frankfurt, rising a fourth day, for its longest stretch of
gains in seven weeks. The gauge has still  fallen 4.4 percent 
since May 22, when the Fed first signaled that it may taper its
bond-buying program if the  U.S. economy  strengthens. The broader
HDAX Index also gained 1.1 percent today.  Bernanke “has sparked a sharp rally across stocks and
bonds,” said Ishaq Siddiqi, a market strategist at ETX Capital
in  London . His “comments were unexpected.”  Bernanke said yesterday that the Fed may keep  interest
rates  low even after unemployment falls to 6.5 percent. The
Fed’s mix of instruments to support the economy may change and
that should not be confused with a shift in policy, he said.  “Highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the U.S. economy,” Bernanke said in
response to a question after a speech in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  Tapering Debate  The Fed earlier released minutes of the June 18-19
gathering that showed about half of the 19 participants in the
 Federal Open Market Committee  wanted to halt the $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases by year end.  Salzgitter AG (SZG) , Germany’s  second-largest steelmaker , added
3.6 percent to 26.75 euros as mining companies and steelmakers
advanced in Europe. Larger rival ThyssenKrupp rallied 2.7
percent to 15.29 euros.  Handelsblatt reported today that the RAG Foundation may buy
some of ThyssenKrupp’s shares to diversify its funds. The
newspaper cited comments made by Werner Mueller, RAG’s chief
executive officer. A spokeswoman for the foundation said its
articles of association allow it invest in ThyssenKrupp.  HeidelbergCement, the world’s third-largest cement maker,
gained 3.2 percent to 51.78 euros as a gauge of European
construction & material companies rallied 1.2 percent.  Chemical Demand  Lanxess rallied 3.7 percent to 46.59 euros, for the biggest
advance on the DAX. UBS reiterated its buy recommendation on the
German chemical maker with a price estimate of 62 euros, saying
demand for butadiene will rise to its long-term pattern in 2015
and the current pace of capacity addition won’t be able to meet
that growth.  Hugo Boss AG (BOSS)  increased 1.6 percent to 87.25 euros after
Societe Generale SA rated the luxury-clothing maker as a buy in
new coverage.  Praktiker plunged 65 percent to 13 euro cents, its lowest
price since its initial public offering in 2005. The home-improvement retailer said it will file for insolvency after a
plan to sell a division collapsed.  The company failed to sell a stake in Luxembourg-based unit
Batiself SA because the buyer’s board didn’t approve the deal,
Praktiker said. The retailer said it had included the proceeds
from a sale in its financing plan from last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  