-- Gold Traders Most Bullish in Five Weeks After Fed: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-07-12T14:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/gold-traders-most-bullish-in-five-weeks-after-fed-commodities.html
Gold traders are the most bullish in
five weeks after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
the U.S. still needs stimulus.  Nineteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
rise next week, nine were bearish and three neutral. Gold fell
23 percent last quarter, with the decline accelerating after the
Fed chairman said June 19 that bond buying could slow if the
economy improves. Unprecedented money printing by central banks
since the global recession boosted bullion buying as a hedge
against inflation.  Gold is heading for the first annual drop in 13 years after
some investors lost faith in it as a store of value. The retreat
in prices to a 34-month low on June 28 spurred demand for
jewelry and gold coins, diminishing supply and driving the cost
of borrowing the metal to a 4 1/2-year high, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “With the Fed comments, with the increased cost of funding
a short position and some recalibration in peoples’ thinking
about the end of quantitative easing, the onus is really on the
bears now,” said Ross Norman, chief executive officer of Sharps
Pixley Ltd., a brokerage handling physical bullion in  London .
“Physical demand is supporting the market very nicely.”  Gold Price  The metal fell 24 percent to $1,279.80 an ounce in London
this year. Prices rose 8.4 percent from $1,180.50 on June 28.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities declined 0.4
percent since the start of January and the MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities rose 8.9 percent. Treasuries lost 2.8
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Gold as much as doubled from 2008 to a record $1,921.15 in
September 2011 as the U.S. central bank, which currently buys
$85 billion of bonds a month, led nations in cutting interest
rates and purchasing debt. The U.S. Dollar Index, a measure
against six major trading partners, slid from a three-year high
after Bernanke said two days ago that “highly accommodative
monetary policy for the foreseeable future” is still required.  The one-month  lease rate  for bullion, which reflects the
cost of borrowing metal, reached 0.3038 percent on July 10, the
highest since December 2008. Limited appetite to lend gold
against “decent” desire to borrow indicates a tightening
forward market, Standard Chartered Plc wrote in a report.  Physical Demand  Jewelry and coin demand around the world surged after gold
dropped into a bear market in April. The U.S. Mint sold 21,000
ounces of American Eagle coins so far this month, on course to
beat the 57,000-ounce June total, data on its website show.  Demand is weakening elsewhere, with  Australia ’s Perth Mint
saying its coin and bar sales dropped for a second month in
June, falling 47 percent. Physical consumption isn’t as strong
as in April, partly because  India , the biggest buyer, imposed
curbs on imports last month to trim its trade deficit, Standard
Chartered said. Indian imports probably slid 80 percent in June
and will be “weak” in July and August, the bank estimates.  Investors sold 645.45 metric tons from gold-backed
exchange-traded products this year, erasing $60 billion from the
value of the funds, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Holdings
reached 1,983.6 tons this week, the lowest since May 2010.
Billionaire John Paulson’s PFR Gold Fund tumbled 23 percent in
June, extending this year’s loss to 65 percent. He owns the
largest stake in the SPDR Gold Trust, the biggest bullion ETP.  U.S. Expectations  U.S. inflation has so far failed to accelerate and higher
interest rates would also reduce gold’s allure. Expectations for
gains in U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the break-even
rate for 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, fell
16 percent this year. Fed funds futures showed a 48.4 percent
probability that policy makers will raise the benchmark rate by
December 2014, versus 32.9 percent on June 18, the day before
the central bank’s last policy statement.  “It will be difficult for gold to go back to its March
levels any time soon,” said Nic Johnson, who helps manage $30
billion of commodity assets at Pacific Investment Management Co.
in Newport Beach,  California . “The overall sentiment around
gold has turned negative.”  Hedge funds and other large speculators cut bets on higher
prices by 83 percent since October. They held a net-long 34,301
contracts on July 2, from 31,197 a week earlier, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  data  show.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says gold will reach $1,050 by the
end of 2014 and Credit Suisse Group AG forecasts $1,150 in about
a year. The decline is nearing an end and a drop below levels
some mines need to break even will help halt the rout, Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a report yesterday.  Sugar Survey  Three of 10 people surveyed expect raw sugar to fall next
week and three were bullish. The commodity slid 18 percent to
16.09 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York this year.  Fifteen of 27 surveyed anticipate lower corn prices and 10
said the grain will rise, while 11 of 27 said soybeans will gain
and the same number expect falling prices. Fourteen traders
predicted declines in wheat and seven were bullish. Corn fell 26
percent to $5.1475 a bushel this year in  Chicago . The December
contract, which reflects supply after the U.S. harvest, is down
14 percent this year. Soybeans lost 9.7 percent to $12.73 a
bushel, as wheat slipped 12 percent to $6.815 a bushel.  Nine traders and analysts surveyed expect copper to climb
next week, four were bearish and five were neutral. The metal
for delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s
benchmark contract, fell 12 percent to $6,961.25 a ton this
year.  Raw Materials  The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials climbed to a three-month high yesterday. It fell for three months through June, the
worst run since May last year, on mounting concern that economic
growth will slow in  China , the biggest user of everything from
copper to coal. Global growth will struggle to accelerate this
year, the International Monetary Fund said July 9, reducing its
forecast to 3.1 percent from April’s 3.3 percent.  “Tapering should be a good thing from a fundamental point
of view if the U.S. economy becomes stronger,” said Carole Ferguson, an analyst at SP Angel Corporate Finance LLP, a broker
and adviser in London. “Everyone knows that Chinese growth is
slowing down, but it’s just a question of whether you get a hard
or soft landing. What you’ll see maybe are commodities being
supported at these levels, not necessarily going up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  