-- Griffin-American to Pay $447.8 Million for U.K. Portfolio
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-07-11T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/griffin-american-to-pay-447-8-million-for-u-k-portfolio.html
Griffin-American Healthcare REIT II
Inc., a nonlisted real estate investment trust, agreed to buy a
U.K. senior-housing portfolio for 298.5 million pounds ($447.8
million), its first investment outside the U.S.  The 44 properties, located in  England ,  Scotland  and the
island of  Jersey , are being purchased from Myriad Healthcare
Ltd., Griffin-American said today in an e-mailed statement. The
Newport Beach, California-based REIT will lease them back to the
seller under a 35-year agreement.  Griffin-American “will add a significant international
presence to an already extensive national footprint, creating
one of the largest and best-diversified health-care-focused
REITs in the world,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeff Hanson said in the statement. The company owns 174 properties in
28 states, including medical-office buildings, hospitals and
senior homes.  Demand for residences for the elderly is expected to climb
in the U.K. as the population ages. The number of people 65 and
older is forecast to rise about 50 percent to almost 16 million
within 20 years, according to data compiled by the country’s
statistics office. Construction of senior housing has fallen to
about 8,000 units a year from more than 30,000 in the 1980s, a
study by the International Longevity Center-U.K. showed.  Griffin-American Healthcare REIT II, co-sponsored by
American Healthcare Investors LLC and Griffin Capital Corp.,
said it will pay for the purchase with cash on hand and
borrowings from a Bank of America Corp. credit line. The deal,
which also includes the acquisition of care facilities, is
scheduled for completion this quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  