-- Miami Tops U.S. Foreclosures as Banks Selling in Boom
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-07-11T18:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/miami-tops-u-s-foreclosures-as-banks-selling-in-boom.html
Miami’s foreclosure rate ranked at
the top of major U.S. metropolitan areas last month as auctions
more than tripled, signaling lenders are preparing to sell a
backlog of distressed properties amid rising home prices.  One in 236 housing units in the area that includes Miami,
 Fort Lauderdale  and  Pompano Beach  received a foreclosure filing
in June, more than four times the national average, RealtyTrac
Inc. said in a report today. The jump was led by notices of
scheduled auctions -- the step before a bank-owned property sale
-- which rose 283 percent from a year earlier to 5,172 homes,
according to the real estate data company.  The surge in auctions in states such as  Florida , where
courts oversee repossessions, reflects lenders pushing
properties through  foreclosure  after years of judicial delays
lengthened the process, said  Daren Blomquist , vice president at
 Irvine , California-based RealtyTrac. That’s clearing the
inventory of distressed homes at a time when surging demand from
investors and international buyers is fueling price gains in the
Miami area.  “There’s no question that the Miami market is back,” Mike
Pappas, president of Keyes Real Estate residential brokerage,
said in a telephone interview. “We saw a devaluation of 50 to
60 percent in the recession, and now we’re seeing a return.”  Prices for single-family homes in the Miami metro area
climbed 13 percent in April from a year earlier, the biggest
gain among East Coast cities in the S&P/Case-Shiller index of 20
major markets. They’re still 43 percent lower than the peak
reached in December 2006. Miami values reached their low in
April 2011.  Condo Surge  In the condominium  market , the median price of a unit sold
in May jumped 20 percent from a year earlier to $180,000,
according to the Miami Association of Realtors. Condos formed
the bulk of the city’s unsold inventory after about 14,000 high-rise units were constructed near downtown as prices began
falling, Pappas said.  Buyers from  South America  are viewing south Florida real
estate as a safe investment, driving demand even after two years
of increases, said Steven Hagenbuckle, co-managing principal at
TerraCap Partners LP, a real-estate investment firm. The supply
of available homes in Miami has been cut to less than three
months from 15, boosting prices and giving banks reason to bring
their backlog of foreclosures to market, Pappas said.  “There’s a real supply crunch,” Hagenbuckle, founder of
 Bonita Springs , Florida-based TerraCap, said in a phone
interview. “We’re inundated by buyers from  Brazil ,  Argentina 
and  Venezuela . The market is rising and Miami is built out.”  Blackstone Buying  Homes in the area also are being acquired by private-equity
firms buying houses in bulk to turn them into rentals.
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the biggest company in the industry, has
been accumulating properties in the Miami area, as has  Tom Barrack ’s  Colony Capital LLC .  Distressed homes in the Miami area sold for an average
$108,200 in May, up 20 percent from $90,000 a year earlier,
according to RealtyTrac’s most recent sales data. Properties not
in the foreclosure process sold for a median $163,150, up 18
percent from May 2012.  Banks are accelerating home auctions across the U.S. as
 prices  rise at the fastest pace since 2006, with the gains
pronounced in the 26 judicial states. Auctions last month were
up 103 percent in  New Jersey , 100 percent in Florida, 94 percent
in  Maryland  and 65 percent in  Illinois , RealtyTrac data show.  Sellers’ Market  “Home prices are rising and inventory is in short supply,
making it a good sellers’ market, particularly for distressed
property sellers -- the lenders,” Blomquist said.  Lenders will profit from “timed releases” of distressed
homes through 2014 because they will still sell at discounts to
new construction, while job growth brings new residents to Miami
and boosts demand, Hagenbuckle said.  Florida’s foreclosure inventory was 8.8 percent of its
mortgaged homes in May, the highest share of any state and more
than double the 4 percent share of second-place Illinois and
more than triple the U.S. average of 2.6 percent, CoreLogic Inc.
said in a July 9 report.  “We’ve got another year-and-a-half of price
appreciation,” Hagenbuckle said in the interview.  Total U.S. foreclosure  filings  -- which also include
notices of default and bank seizures -- fell 35 percent in the
month to 127,790, the fewest since December 2006, according to
RealtyTrac. The decline was led by a 45 percent plunge in
foreclosure starts, reflecting declining mortgage  delinquencies 
as  home prices  climb.  In the first half of the year, Florida cities accounted for
the top five foreclosure rates in areas with more than 200,000
people. Miami ranked first, with 2.35 percent of households
getting a notice, followed by Orlando, Jacksonville, Ocala and
Tampa.  New Condos  In Miami, the prospect of moving past the foreclosure
crisis has developers proposing new condo projects, which would
have been unheard of three years ago, according to Pappas. His
brokerage, which helps private-equity funds find discount deals,
handled sales worth $918 million through May, a 36 percent
increase from $677 million last year.  “Historically, this is a boom-bust market, and we had a
tremendous amount of foreclosures and vacant buildings from 2007
to 2009,” Pappas said. “Now we’re running out of land and
going vertical again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  