-- Liberty’s John Malone Urges Ergen to Merge Dish With DirecTV
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 2013-07-11T20:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/liberty-s-john-malone-urges-ergen-to-merge-dish-with-directv.html
Liberty Media Corp. Chairman John Malone urged fellow billionaire Charlie Ergen to combine  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH)  with DirecTV to get the advantages of bigger bulk
in the pay-TV business.  “It would be good if DirecTV could combine with Echo or
Dish or whatever Charlie calls it now just because scale
economics in the media business drives down costs and makes it
possible for larger investment,” Malone said in an interview at
the Allen & Co. conference in Sun Valley,  Idaho . “You need
larger -- I’m not saying monopoly players -- but you need larger
players.”  Dish, based in Englewood, Colorado -- across the street
from Liberty Media -- retracted its offers to buy Sprint Nextel
Corp. and Clearwire Corp. in June, leaving Ergen to contemplate
his next move after long saying a  DirecTV (DTV)  merger could interest
him. Dish split from EchoStar Corp., a satellite-TV equipment
manufacturer, in 2008. Ergen is chairman of both companies.  Malone is the largest individual shareholder in DirecTV --
as opposed to institutional funds -- with 27.7 million shares,
or 5 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. He was
DirecTV’s chairman from 2008 to 2010 after acquiring 38.5
percent of the El Segundo, California-based company in a 2007
asset trade for Liberty’s stake in News Corp.  Liberty later spun off DirecTV in 2009 with Malone
retaining a stake in the largest U.S. satellite-TV provider.  ‘Staggering’ Synergies  DirecTV rose 3.5 percent to $64.40 at the close in New
York, the most since May 7. The  shares  have gained 28 percent
this year. Dish advanced 0.9 percent to $42.05 and is up
16 percent for 2013.  A DirecTV-Dish combination would have 34 million U.S. video
customers, making it the world’s largest pay-TV company, ahead
of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and Malone’s European cable asset holding
company Liberty Global Plc. Merging would give the new company
leverage in negotiations with programmers, such as Walt Disney
Co. and Time Warner Inc., to limit content price increases.
DirecTV said earlier this year programming costs would rise more
than 10 percent in 2013.  There would be “staggering” synergies if a merger
occurred, Craig Moffett, an analyst at Moffett Research LLC in
New York, said in a note to clients last month. Duplications in
operational costs such as ground facilities and staffing and
reduced churn, along with the lower programming expenses, would
result in as much as $40 billion of cost savings on a net
present value basis, he said.  Cable Consolidation  Malone also said  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-largest
U.S. cable company, should be an acquirer of other cable
companies. He declined to say whether  Charter Communications
Inc. (CHTR) , the fourth-largest U.S. cable operator, should buy Time
Warner Cable. Liberty owns a 27 percent stake in Charter and is
considering ways of buying the larger company, according to
people familiar with the matter said last month.  Comcast is the largest U.S. cable company, with 22 million
video customers. Time Warner Cable has about 12 million TV
subscribers and Charter has about 4 million.  “Comcast is large enough to do OK,” Malone said. “The
rest of the industry needs more consolidation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  