-- Tiger Asia Accused of Insider Trading in Hong Kong Case
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-07-11T11:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/tiger-asia-accused-of-insider-trading-in-hong-kong-case.html
Tiger Asia Management LLC, which
admitted in the U.S. to illegally using inside information to
trade Chinese bank stocks, was accused of the same offense in a
 Hong Kong  tribunal.  The New York-based hedge fund firm, its founder Bill Hwang
and its officers Raymond Park and William Tomita traded on
advance information from bankers arranging placements of  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  shares in 2008
and 2009, according to a  notice  today by Hong Kong’s Securities
and Futures Commission.  The SFC first sued Tiger Asia in 2009. The case was delayed
by a legal challenge to its power, which the regulator won in
April. The Market Misconduct Tribunal that will hear the new
case can force the firm to disgorge profits made or losses
avoided, and can also ban individuals from dealing in
securities. The SFC didn’t provide details of what penalties it
is seeking.  The regulator alleges Tiger  Asia  made HK$9.1 million ($1.2
million) ahead of a Dec. 31, 2008 placement of  Bank of China 
shares and HK$32.1 million dollars before a Jan. 7, 2009
placement of China Construction Bank stock. In both cases, the
firm short-sold shares in the companies after UBS AG employees
alerted them to the placements.  The hedge fund allegedly used the same tactic ahead of a
Jan. 13, 2009 placement of Bank of China shares, which it
learned of from  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  It lost HK$10.3 million after
the stock unexpectedly rose the day after the placement.  Hwang didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  Tiger Asia, which has no employees or physical presence in
Hong Kong, agreed to U.S. civil and criminal settlements of more
than $60 million for the same offenses in December. Hwang said
in August that the fund would return all outside capital to
investors.  Tiger Asia was funded by billionaire  Julian Robertson  and
started in 2001. Robertson started a new Asia-focused fund in
November, Tiger Pacific Capital LP, headed by former Tiger Asia
employees, Run Ye, Junji Takegami and Hoyon Hwang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  