-- Illinois Parental-Notice Abortion Law Upheld by Top Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-07-11T16:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/illinois-parental-notice-abortion-law-upheld-by-top-court.html
An  Illinois  law requiring 48 hours’
notice to an adult family member before a girl under age 18 can
have an abortion was upheld by the state Supreme Court.  The law, which includes exceptions for emergencies, abuse
and minors accompanied by people entitled to the notice, was
passed by the Legislature in 1995 and has been subject to state
and federal court litigation since.  “We find that while a minor clearly has an expectation of
privacy in her medical information, which includes the fact of
her pregnancy, the intrusion on the minor’s privacy occasioned
by the act is not unreasonable,” Associate Justice Anne M. Burke wrote for the court’s majority opinion.  Three other members of the panel concurred separately.  The
ruling  reverses an intermediate appellate court decision and
reinstates a trial court ruling dismissing the case.  The state has an interest in ensuring that girls under 18
are “sufficiently mature and well informed to make the
difficult decision whether to have an abortion,” and that it’s
reasonable for the state to encourage a minor to seek support of
an adult or prove her maturity by obtaining a judicial waiver.
through that confidential process.  A federal appeals court in  Chicago  ruled in 2009 that the
2006 creation of an expedited judicial bypass procedure made the
law constitutional. Litigation was renewed in state court later
that year in a suit filed by the  American Civil Liberties Union .  ACLU Reaction  Lorie Chaiten, Reproductive Rights Project director for the
ACLU in Illinois, said the court’s decision relied upon
“outdated ideological and unsupported assumptions about the
purported harms of abortion.”  “Most young women seek out the guidance of a parent or
trusted adult when making the decision to terminate a
pregnancy,” Chaiten said today in a press statement. “Those
who don’t choose not to for good reason,” including the risk of
physical and emotional abuse, being kicked out of their home or
being forced to carry the child to term against their will.  The measure does not take effect for 35 days, Chaiten said.  The case is Hope Clinic for Women Ltd. v. Flores,
2013IL112673, Illinois  Supreme Court  (Springfield).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 