-- Indian Rupee Rises to Highest in a Week After Bernanke Comments
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-11T04:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/indian-rupee-rises-to-highest-in-a-week-after-bernanke-comments.html
India’s rupee rose to the highest
level in more than a week after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the  U.S. economy  will continue to need stimulus,
boosting the prospect of the flow of funds to  emerging markets .  The currency extended its rebound from a record low of
61.2125 per dollar touched on July 8, as Indian regulators
curbed speculation in rupee derivatives. Global funds have cut
 holdings  of local debt by $8.1 billion since May 22, when the
Fed signaled it may reduce asset purchases this year. The
Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against 10
major trading partners, fell for a second day.  The rupee advanced 0.4 percent to 59.4250 per dollar as of
10:05 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency touched 59.3200 earlier, its
strongest since July 2.  “Bernanke’s comments have led to a dollar slump and risk-on rally in the market,” said Samir Lodha, Mumbai-based senior
partner at QuantArt Market Solutions Pvt. “The rupee should
stabilize at current levels for now and may strengthen to about
58 or 57 if investors receive more signals that the U.S. stance
will be accommodative.”  Bernanke backed sustained stimulus in a speech yesterday,
after minutes of the Fed’s June meeting showed officials
debating whether to end the central bank’s $85 billion-a-month
of bond purchases.  Speculation Curbed  The  Reserve Bank  of India barred lenders from proprietary
trading in currency futures and exchange-traded options,
according to a July 8 statement on its website. The Securities
and Exchange Board of India said separately it will raise margin
requirements and cap open positions in such contracts.  The RBI also asked Indian oil refiners, the largest buyers
of foreign currency, to purchase dollars only from the  State
Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s biggest lender, CNBC-TV18 television
channel reported July 9, citing people it didn’t identify.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.7 percent to
60.36 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts gained 1 percent to 60.41. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  