-- India’s Worst Currency Too Weak With 5% Growth: Market Reversal
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-11T16:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/india-s-worst-currency-too-weak-with-5-growth-market-reversal.html
India’s rupee, the worst-performing
currency in June, is poised to rebound from near a record low as
trading patterns suggest the rout in  emerging markets  prompted
by shifting sentiment on U.S. stimulus is overdone.  The currency’s 14-day relative strength index against the
dollar this week crossed the 70 threshold that signals it had
fallen too far, too fast. Options traders were paying the
highest premium in more than a year to sell the rupee on July 8,
25-delta risk reversal rates show. The measure had what’s known
as a Z-score of 1.6 percent, meaning the premium was almost two
units of standard deviation from the 20-day average.  The rupee has weakened 5.3 percent since May 31, the
fourth-most among more than 75 currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
after the Federal Reserve signaled it may pare stimulus efforts
seen as debasing the dollar.  India  and other developing
economies, whose currencies had benefited most from the Fed’s
policies, have felt the brunt of the stronger dollar burden. The
weaker rupee has kept the Reserve Bank of India from cutting
interest rates for a fourth time this year to provide stimulus.  “Although the rupee touched a record low, the momentum in
the drop slowed, suggesting investors may not be as bullish on
the dollar as they were earlier,” Dhiren Sarin, the chief
technical strategist for Asia-Pacific at Barclays Plc in
 Singapore , said in a July 10 phone interview. “So it does look
like the rupee can strengthen in the short term.”  ‘Danger Zone’  India’s rupee slipped to 61.2125 per dollar on July 8
before weakening to 59.6800 at 12:30 p.m. in New York. It has
depreciated from a high for this year of 52.8900 on Feb. 6.  The rupee is also testing a boundary of its 20-day
Bollinger band, indicating it’s due for a reversal. The currency
came within 0.03 percent of breaking the upper limit of the
dollar-rupee Bollinger band on July 8. The measures, developed
by John Bollinger in the 1980s, are used by technical analysts
to identify the turning point in an asset’s trajectory.  The rupee’s 14-day relative strength index rose to 70.1 on
July 8, exceeding the barrier at 70 that indicates the currency
is oversold.  India, along with China and Hong Kong, is in a “high-risk
danger zone” if a pullback by the Fed prompts investors to
punish countries that have weakening economic fundamentals and
are too slow to reform, according to a June 28 report from
Nomura Holdings Inc.  The current-account deficit in Asia’s third-largest economy
widened to a record 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the
year ended March 31. While  growth  slowed to a decade-low of 5
percent, it’s still above the 3.1 percent predicted by the
International Monetary Fund for the global economy this year.  Cutting Holdings  Global funds cut holdings of Indian stocks and bonds by
$8.1 billion after the Fed signaled potential tapering of its
$85 billion in monthly purchases of U.S. Treasuries and
mortgage-backed debt.  Fed officials are split on the timing of the eventual wind-down of the central bank’s bond-buying program, according to
minutes of policy makers’ last meeting released yesterday.  Many Fed officials want to see more signs employment is
picking up before they’ll begin slowing the pace of bond
purchases, while “several members”  judged that a reduction
would likely be soon warranted, the record showed.  “Tapering risks are going to continue in the third quarter
and probably into the fourth quarter, as well,”  Win Thin , the
global head of emerging-markets strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York, said in a July 9 phone interview.
“There will be a lot of volatility.” Emerging markets are
“going to stay under pressure,” he said.  Buying Opportunity  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index, based on
currency-option premiums, rose to 10.73 percent yesterday after
reaching 11.96 on June 24, its highest level since January 2012.
One-month implied volatility in India’s rupee touched 13.64
percent on July 9, the most since June 2012.  The rupee’s decline in June led RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao to refrain from adding to three interest-rate cuts in
2013 that helped push the benchmark 10-year yield to a 3 1/2-year low on May 24.  Trading patterns indicate the rupee may strengthen to 58 in
coming weeks, according to Barclays and Edelweiss Financial
Advisors Ltd. The British bank sees the Indian currency resuming
its drop soon after, giving investors the opportunity to buy the
dollar and benefit from a better exchange rate.  The rupee may strengthen toward 59.15 and then 58.95, with
such a move being “a favorable setup” for a weakening back
toward an unprecedented 61.80 and then to about 63 to 63.50,
according to Sarin of Barclays.  Trading Ban  A so-called harmonic AB=CD pattern formed when the dollar
rose to a record against the rupee on July 8, suggesting the
high is a significant level “which may not be retested before a
meaningful correction,” according to Sahil Kapoor, a technical
analyst at Edelweiss in Mumbai.  Kapoor is referring to a four-stage wave pattern that’s
used to identify peaks and trenches for a currency pair and
helps investors find an entry or exit point. Trading patterns
show that the dollar’s rally may soon run out of steam, he said.  If the rupee is unable to stay stronger than 59 in the spot
market, it may fall to new lows, Kapoor said in a July 9 e-mail.  Indian regulators announced on July 8 steps to curb
speculation in the currency derivatives market. The Reserve Bank
of India barred banks from proprietary futures and options
trades and the Securities and Exchange Board of India doubled
margins and said it will curtail open position limits.  Further Curbs  The central bank may impose further curbs on rupee trading
by lowering lenders’ net open position limits, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the information is confidential. They were
referring to the amount of foreign-exchange contracts that
investors can hold without opposing trade covers.  The directives that the Reserve Bank has already announced
will cause the rupee to strengthen in coming days, according to
ANZ Banking Group Ltd. and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , who
will buy the dollar on bouts of rupee strength.  “The rupee is oversold in terms of speculation, but there
is no reprieve from fundamentals,” Andy Ji, a strategist at CBA
in Singapore, said in a July 9 e-mail interview. “Will I sell
the dollar versus the rupee knowing that dollar-strength and
India’s high current-account deficit will persist?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  