-- Indonesia Fights Inflation With More-Than-Forecast Rate Rise
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-07-11T09:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/indonesia-raises-rate-more-than-forecast-to-6-5-on-inflation.html
Bank  Indonesia  raised its key
interest rate more than economists forecast to bolster a
weakening currency and ease inflation pressures after the
government increased fuel prices last month.  The central bank boosted the  reference rate  by 50 basis
points to 6.5 percent, Governor Agus Martowardojo said in
Jakarta today. The outcome was predicted by three of 19
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, with the majority
expecting a 25 basis-point increase. It also raised the  deposit
facility rate  to 4.75 percent from 4.25 percent.  Indonesia in June became the region’s first major economy
to boost rates this year, and the back-to-back increase may
bolster confidence in the rupiah as the central bank tries to
shore up one of Asia’s worst performing currencies. Price gains
are expected to peak in July, Martowardojo said last week,
citing seasonal factors including the observance of the fasting
month of Ramadan in the world’s most populous Muslim nation.  “The central bank is keen to head-off any potential second-round effects on core inflation,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde ,
an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Singapore . “Bank
Indonesia is also aiming to take some of the pressure off the
rupiah. The sharp fuel-price rise and associated interest-rate
tightening measures, which may well not have finished yet, is
coming at a time when the economy is softening.”  The rupiah was little changed at 9,973 per dollar as of
4:25 p.m. in Jakarta, prices compiled by Bloomberg from local
banks show. It has fallen about 6 percent in the past 12 months,
the worst performer among 11 Asian currencies after the yen and
the Indian rupee.  Foreign Reserves  Indonesia’s foreign-exchange reserves fell to $98.1
billion last month from $105.15 billion in May, the central bank
said as it intervened. The levels are still adequate to
stabilize the currency, Martowardojo said last week.  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono last month raised
domestic fuel prices for the first time since 2008 to cut
subsidy costs and boost confidence in the rupiah. Consumer
prices rose 5.9 percent in June from a year earlier, from 5.47
percent in May.  The central bank raised the benchmark rate by half a
percentage point because it sees price gains approaching the
upper end of its 7.2 percent-to-7.8 percent range for 2013 and
as transportation costs rose “too steeply” after the fuel
subsidy cuts, Martowardojo said today. Before the fuel price
increase, it had expected inflation to be between 3.5 percent
and 5.5 percent.  Transport Costs  Transportation costs surged 5.48 percent in June from a
year earlier, after gaining 1.64 percent in May, the statistics
bureau said July 1.  “Bank Indonesia is in serious inflation-fighting mode,”
said Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe Generale SA in
Hong Kong. “Maintaining positive sentiment and shoring up market
confidence is as important, if not more, for the case of
Indonesia.”  Indonesia joins  Brazil  in raising borrowing costs as
 emerging markets  take steps to stem capital outflows sparked by
concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will start to scale back
liquidity injections. Still, others in Asia are choosing to keep
rates unchanged with  Thailand  and South Korea staying on hold
this week.  Gains in housing costs are also contributing to Indonesian
inflation, prompting Martowardojo to announce policies to quell
rising property prices. Bank Indonesia will impose stricter
loan-to-value rules for some mortgages effective September, he
said today.  Slower Growth  The Indonesian economy  grew  6.02 percent in the first three
months of 2013 from a year ago, after expanding 6.11 percent the
previous quarter. The central bank has lowered its economic
growth forecast for 2013 to about 5.8 percent to 6.2 percent,
from a previous estimate of as much as 6.6 percent.  The International Monetary Fund this month cut its global
growth forecast for 2013 as a U.S. expansion weakens,  China ’s
economy levels off and Europe’s recession deepens.  The central bank’s decision to raise the rate it pays
lenders on overnight deposits, also known as the Fasbi, by 50
basis points was predicted by one analyst in a separate
Bloomberg survey, with nine others expecting a 25 basis-point
increase.  “After a back-to-back rate hike, the likelihood is for BI
to take a pause in the August meeting and be ready to act again
if inflation does not peak by then,” Societe Generale’s Chong
said.  To contact the reporter on this story
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  