-- IPhones Stuck to Windshields Threaten Dashboard Maps
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-07-11T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/iphones-stuck-to-windshields-threaten-dashboard-maps.html
Tim Nixon, chief technology officer
of  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s OnStar service, knew something was amiss
when he saw his two sons taking the “suction-cup approach” to
in-car navigation. They would turn their iPhones sideways, stick
them to the windshield and use a free map app to find their way.  That represented a rejection of their father’s life’s work:
Convincing car buyers to pay $1,500 or more for a dashboard
navigation system with an 8-inch screen and elaborate graphics.
Rather than scold his young-adult sons, Nixon came up with an
answer: GM now offers a $50 map application for iPhones that can
play on the dashboard touchscreen of a $12,170 Chevrolet Spark.  “We’ve historically had these on-board, embedded nav
systems,” Nixon said. “That’s just not going to cut it
anymore. The game has changed and the bar has been raised by
these always-connected devices that bring fresh information into
the car.”  The chase is on for the fully connected car. Streaming
Internet music sites through the car radio isn’t enough anymore.
As more people use smartphones to traverse their daily drive,
automakers’ pricey and profitable in-car navigation systems are
threatened. The reason is simple: Many map apps are free while
embedded nav systems run from $500 to more than $2,000.  Waze Threat  Even more compelling is the emergence of social-networking
map apps like Waze. “Wazers,” as the app’s 48 million users
call themselves, touch prompts on their smartphone to report
traffic jams and accidents and then the app re-routes them onto
a faster path. Last month,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  outbid  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to
acquire Waze Inc., paying about $1.1 billion for the app maker
with offices in  Israel  and  Palo Alto ,  California .  “If you have a choice between paying a lot of money on an
expensive in-car nav system or a free app on your iPhone, which
are you going to choose?” Di-Ann Eisnor, head of Waze’s U.S.
business, said in an interview. “It is a considerable threat”
to automakers.  The boom in mobile-phone map apps is pressuring automakers
to adapt so they can maintain control of the burgeoning
navigation market. Installations of in-car navigations systems
worldwide will grow to 32.7 million in 2019, more than double
this year’s 13.8 million, according to consultant IHS
Automotive. In the U.S., half of all cars will come equipped
with nav systems by 2019, up from 25 percent now, IHS forecast
in a report this month on automotive-infotainment systems.  Off The Web  “The nav function has become the Internet browser of
infotainment systems,” Mark Boyadjis, an IHS analyst based in
 Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , said of the growing ubiquity of digital
dashboard maps.  Even mapping-device providers, such as  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  and
 TomTom NV (TOM2) , now offer apps that run on phones.  Until now, most in-car navigations systems haven’t been
connected to the Web. Instead, they use maps loaded onto DVDs
that work with global positioning satellites to plot a course.
Those maps become dated quickly, especially as points of
interest, such as coffee shops and gasoline stations, open and
close. Smartphone apps have fresher maps and points of interest
because they constantly pull new data from the Internet via
storage and other computing services known as the cloud.  “If you want to update the maps in your car, it’s an
expensive and complicated process of having to go to the
dealership,” said  John Canali , who tracks the navigation
business for  Strategy Analytics  in metropolitan  Boston . “With
the smartphone, a lot of applications have the maps refreshed
regularly.”  Profitable Bundles  Automakers have increased profits from nav systems by
bundling them with expensive option packages such as leather
seats, sun roofs and high-end audio systems.  “It’s a very lucrative, profitable option for carmakers,”
said Niall Berkery, executive director of the automotive
business for TeleNav, a provider of the Scout navigation system
for smartphones which can be operated through  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
touchscreen controls. “Carmakers push those kinds of packages
with navigation because it’s a higher margin package for them.”  Consumers, however, aren’t always pleased. Satisfaction
fell last year among car owners with nav systems, according to a
survey by  J.D. Power  & Associates. The biggest complaint: How
difficult they are to use. Ford’s namesake brand has fallen to
27th in J.D. Power’s Initial Quality Study, from fifth in 2010,
due mostly to problems with its touchscreen dashboard controls.  Frustrating Drivers  Meanwhile, 47 percent of car owners told J.D. Power they
used a map app on their mobile phone while driving last year, up
from 37 percent in 2011. And 46 percent of car owners with a
factory-installed navigation system said they wouldn’t buy one
again if their smartphone app could play on their dashboard
screen.  “Many people view their smartphone as having better
processing speed, better points of interest and better map
data,” said Mike VanNieuwkyuk, J.D. Power’s executive director
of global automotive research. “Consumers get frustrated when
they take ownership of their vehicle that map data can be up to
a year-and-a-half old or more. It’s very frustrating for
somebody to search for something they know is there and the map
can’t find it.”  That’s why consumers increasingly are turning to their
phones for driving directions. U.S. visitors to map apps in May
grew 11 percent to 79.1 million, making it one of the most
popular applications, according to researcher  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   ‘Profound Way’  “Smartphones and the software are becoming so advanced
that they’re really changing consumer behavior in a profound
way,” said  Andrew Lipsman , a Chicago-based analyst for
ComScore. “So categories that may have really grown a few years
ago all of a sudden have a new competitor because these devices
can do a little bit of everything.”  Automakers are embracing the challenge and scrambling to
re-engineer their nav systems to make them compatible with
smartphones.  “We look at it as an opportunity,”  Marios Zenios , vice
president of Chrysler Group LLC’s Uconnect infotainment system.
“All this capability, including Waze, is sitting on the cloud,
it’s not sitting on the phone. We are able to go to the cloud
through their phone, bring the information down and display it
on our screen.”  Chrysler, however, hasn’t paired with Waze, nor has Ford or
GM, though GM’s Nixon said he met with the map app maker’s
leaders in Israel this year.  Waze will make its first appearance on a car later this
year, said Eisnor, the company executive. It’s with a Japanese
automaker that she declined to identify.  “We’ve had conversations with everyone,” Eisnor said of
the interest Waze is getting from major automakers.  Seeking Perfection  Cars and mobile map apps will ultimately merge because each
complements the other’s strengths, said Michelle Moody, Ford’s
consumer tech marketing manager. Cars have a stronger GPS
connection and larger display screen. Phone apps have the latest
maps and users providing real-time traffic updates.  “The reality is neither one is a perfect solution,” Moody
said. “Together, they might be a perfect solution.”  Eisnor sees a time when Waze is plugged into the functions
of a car and can crowd-source information on a rain storm when
Wazers turn on their windshield wipers. Providing information on
braking and wheel speed to the social network would reduce
traffic and get people off the road quicker, she said.  “What you do with all that information could save billions
of hours a year,” she said. “Think what that does for the GDP
and the CO2 saved from going into the environment. This has big
possibilities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southffield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  