-- Iran Building Secret Nuclear Site, Opposition Group Says
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-07-11T11:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/iran-building-secret-nuclear-site-opposition-group-says.html
Iran  is building an underground
nuclear facility in the mountains northeast of Tehran that it
hasn’t declared to international inspectors, an Iranian
opposition group said.  The complex of tunnels near the town of Damavand, 60
kilometers (35 miles) from Tehran, has been under construction
since 2006, the People’s Mujahedeen Organization of Iran, an
opposition group with a mixed record of accuracy, said in a
statement. Its exact purpose is unknown, the group said.  Four satellite images purporting to show the site were
attached to the statement. The group said it obtained
information on the facility from unidentified people in the
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, the Ministry of Defense, the
Atomic Energy Organization and the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the
Armed Forces. There was no way to immediately verify the images
independently.  Iranian President-elect Hassan Rohani said after his
election win last month that he will make the country’s nuclear
program more transparent and ease tension with the U.S. in a bid
to ease sanctions that have crippled the country’s economy.  The site comprises four tunnels, two of which are about 550
meters (600 yards) long, the Mujahedeen said, and was built by
engineering companies associated with the  Defense Ministry  and
the Republican Guards. The Mujahedeen, which until last year was
designated by the U.S. as a terrorist group, says it was the
first to reveal  Iran’s nuclear program  in 2002.  Israel , the U.S.,  France  and Britain say they think Iran is
trying to develop nuclear weapons capability. Iran says that as
a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, it’s
entitled to conduct nuclear work and maintains its program is
solely for energy generation and medical research.  Negotiations with six world powers have failed to yield a
concrete outcome, and a series of votes at the  United Nations
Security Council  has placed Iran under sanctions that have
fueled a  currency devaluation  and helped to send the Iranian
economy into recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  