-- Israel Shekel Gains Fuel Bets Central Bank to Buy Dollars
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-07-11T07:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/israel-shekel-gains-fuel-bets-central-bank-to-buy-dollars.html
Israel ’s shekel strengthened to the
highest in a week, raising bets the central bank may intervene
by buying dollars.  The shekel gained 0.5 percent to 3.6162 a dollar at 9:39
a.m. in Tel Aviv, the highest since July 4. The U.S. currency
has depreciated this week against 15 of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The dollar declined after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said inflation and unemployment rates
show the U.S. economy still requires very accommodative monetary
stimulus.  “The dollar has weakened almost 3 percent in two days
against the euro and the shekel is strengthening accordingly but
not as much,” Tal Zohar Avda, chief executive officer of Forex
Capital Markets LLC in Tel Aviv, said today by phone. “The
testing point for a central bank intervention will be 3.58
shekels per dollar.”  To moderate the shekel’s appreciation, which makes exports
less competitive, the central bank restarted a foreign-currency
purchase program in April with the aim of buying $2.1 billion by
the end of this year. Exports make up 40 percent of Israel’s
economic output.  Jacob Frenkel, chairman of  JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  International,
will take over as governor of the Bank of Israel in the coming
weeks. He said in February that intervening to weaken currencies
“leads nowhere,” stoking speculation he may take a different
approach to that of his predecessor.  “There may be some hesitation to intervene in the market
because of the new governor,” Zohar Avda said. “But unless
announced otherwise, we understand the intervention policy is
still in place.”  The yield on the 4.25 percent bonds due March 2023 fell six
basis points, or 0.06 of a percentage point, the most in a week,
to 3.75 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  