-- Italian Senators Debate Push to Strip Berlusconi of Seat
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-07-11T13:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/italian-senators-debate-push-to-strip-berlusconi-of-seat.html
Silvio Berlusconi , the billionaire
former premier and partner in  Italy ’s ruling parliamentary
coalition, is facing a lawmaker debate about possible conflicts
of interest that could lead to his Senate expulsion.  The upper house’s Elections and Parliamentary Immunities
Committee started a debate in a closed-door meeting on whether
to place Berlusconi’s eligibility case before the full chamber.
Under scrutiny is the potential conflict between Berlusconi’s
position as a lawmaker and his control of  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the
country’s biggest private television company, which operates
through state concessions.  “We will discuss it, we will study it,” Senator Felice
Casson of the Democratic Party, which backs Prime Minister
Enrico Letta along with Berlusconi’s People of Liberty, told
reporters in  Rome , declining to say how he’ll vote in the 23-member panel. “All of the elements of the defense will be
seen.”  The Senate debate increases pressure on Berlusconi, whose
political career is already under threat from three criminal
convictions in the last year. The conflict-of-interest
discussion is set to strain the two-month-old coalition of
rivals that Letta relies on for his government’s survival.  The committee adjourned for the day without making a
decision.  “We flagged this as a potential snag point for the
government and stability,” Peter Ceretti, an analyst with
Eurasia Group in  New York , said yesterday. “It could be
something we need to worry about. It’s not clear how all of this
is going to work out.”  ‘Respect the Laws’  Italian law prohibits national lawmakers from holding
significant state concessions. The rule,  passed  in 1957 to
regulate eligibility for the lower house of Italy’s parliament,
was  adopted  for the Senate in 1993. While Letta’s majority has
enough votes to strike down the ineligibility motion in the
committee, it’s not clear how the  Democratic Party , whose
lawmakers have opposed Berlusconi for 20 years, will vote.  The opposition’s Five Star movement will vote to declare
Berlusconi ineligible, said the party’s Senator Mario Michele
Giarrusso. “We ask that everyone respect the laws,” he said.
The panel might instead vote to start an official review of the
matter as a compromise, he said.  Berlusconi, whose estimated fortune of $6.9 billion places
him 177th on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , accumulated his
wealth through real estate, finance and media investments.
Mediaset, which he built into the first nationwide private
broadcaster before entering politics 20 years ago, has a market
value of about 3.81 billion euros ($5 billion). Berlusconi’s
Fininvest SpA owns 41 percent the Milan-based firm, according to
Bloomberg data.  Berlusconi is appealing the guilty verdicts in tax-fraud,
underage prostitution and wiretapping cases. He has denied all
wrongdoing, saying the convictions are politically motivated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  