-- Mizuho Cooperation Key for Cerberus’s Next Seibu Step, Gomi Says
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r ,   K o m a k i   I t o   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-07-11T23:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/mizuho-cooperation-key-for-cerberus-s-next-seibu-step-gomi-says.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP, the
biggest shareholder of Seibu Holdings Inc., should get the
cooperation of  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  to narrow differences
with the hotel operator, said Hirofumi Gomi, a former candidate
for the Seibu board.  The key is to start talks with Seibu’s largest private
lender and “try to find some middle ground,” Gomi said in an
interview on July 9. Cerberus last month failed in its bid to
have Gomi and seven other candidates elected to Seibu’s board.
The New York-based fund in an e-mailed response declined to
comment on whether it was planning to talk to Mizuho.  Cerberus has said it aims to improve governance and
profitability at the Tokorozawa, Japan-based company before it
sells shares to the public. Seibu President Takashi Goto, who
used to work at Mizuho, said in April he won’t offer “any
concessions” to Cerberus.  “If Cerberus wants to keep doing business in  Japan  then
they need to fit in with Japanese culture,” Gomi, a former
commissioner of Japan’s Financial Services Agency, said. “It’ll
be very difficult for Cerberus to move forward with a medium-term plan by holding its shares and exercising its rights if it
doesn’t have the main bank’s cooperation.”  Gomi said he’s not planning to be part of any future board
proposal with Cerberus as they need to consider a new route.  Tender Offer  Cerberus announced a tender offer in March to boost its
stake in Seibu and proposed three outside directors to the
board. The following month it more than tripled the amount of
shares it was offering to buy and increased its proposal of
board members to eight. The private-equity company raised its
stake to 35.5 percent from 32.4 percent after the tender offer.  Mizuho, Japan’s third-biggest lender by market value, is
Seibu’s biggest private creditor, with  126 billion yen  ($1.3
billion) outstanding, according to the hotel operator’s
shareholder meeting announcement booklet released June 4. The
government-owned  Development Bank  of Japan Inc. was the largest
creditor with 144 billion yen, it said.  Seibu said it met with Cerberus, the Development Bank of
Japan and Norinchukin Bank last week to discuss a way to “move
forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  