-- Jackson Lewis Adds Seven Partners, Six From Patton Boggs
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-11T20:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/jackson-lewis-adds-seven-partners-six-from-patton-boggs.html
Jackson Lewis LLP hired seven
environmental and health and safety lawyers, including a team of
six from Patton Boggs LLP’s Washington and Denver offices. The
seventh is from Ogletree Deakins Nash Smoak & Stewart PC.  Moving to Jackson Lewis from Patton Boggs were partners
Henry Chajet, Robert Horn,  R. Brian Hendrix  and Mark Savit. The
others were  Avidan Meyerstein , of counsel, and  Donna Vetrano
Pryor , an associate.  Tressi Cordaro  joined from Ogletree. All
are partners at the new firm and join the workplace safety and
health practice.  “This is a natural extension of the OSHA practice but it
brings in very highly talented lawyers who are the name players
in mine safety issues,” Vincent A. Cino, Jackson Lewis’s
chairman, said in an interview, referring to the law firm’s U.S.
Occupational Health and Safety Administration practice.  Jackson Lewis, a firm that emphasizes labor and employment
law, has hired 17 lateral partners this year and opened five new
offices. They are in Tampa, Florida;  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan ;  San
Juan ,  Puerto Rico ; Dayton,  Ohio ; and Rapid City,  South Dakota .
The firm doubled in size to 750 lawyers since 2006, adding 33
offices, Cino said. It now has 54.  Latest Departures  The departures are the latest for Patton Boggs, which has
lost 19 partners in the past month. Last month the firm
confirmed that 17 partners were leaving. The firm didn’t
immediately comment today on the Jackson Lewis hires.  Recently departing lawyers include 12 to Holland & Knight
LLP to help open a Dallas office. Patton Boggs said in March
that it was firing 65 people including 22 lawyers.  The firm’s revenue last year fell 6.5 percent to $317.5
million, according to a survey by the American Lawyer, a trade
magazine. Average profit per partner fell 15 percent to
$735,000, the magazine said.  Chajet said in an interview that being able to draw on
varied employment experts to support their practice was a huge
draw for choosing Jackson Lewis.  “We wanted a U.S. law firm that had the capability of
servicing international clients, and with their office
geographical structure, it can’t get any better,” he said.  Other Departures  David Farber left Patton Boggs to join King & Spalding
LLP’s food-and-drug, life sciences and health-care practices.
Ugo Colella, a business litigator, joined Thompson Hine LLP.  Jonathan R. Yarowsky yesterday joined Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP as chairman of the firm’s legislative
affairs and public-policy practice.  Patton Boggs has 10 offices in the U.S. and the  Middle East 
and 481 lawyers and professionals, including public policy
advisers, according to its website. 