-- Jackson Ends 13-Year Career With NBA as Thorn Joins From Sixers
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-11T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/jackson-ends-13-year-career-with-nba-as-thorn-joins-from-sixers.html
Stu Jackson, executive vice
president of basketball operations for the  National Basketball
Association , is leaving the league after more than 13 years,
Commissioner  David Stern  said.  Stern also said Rod Thorn, president of basketball
operations for the Philadelphia 76ers, will return to the league
office to replace Jackson.  “Stu has made enormous contributions to the NBA over the
past 13 years,” Stern said.  Jackson, 57, was in charge of all on-court and
international basketball operations, including game rules,
conduct, discipline and analytics.  “The NBA has given me an extraordinary opportunity to work
with some of the most talented people in sports and I am
extremely proud to be associated with the remarkable global
growth of the league, which couldn’t be in better hands with Rod
coming in to lead basketball operations,” Jackson said in a
statement released by the NBA.  In 1989, at age 33, the  New York  Knicks promoted Jackson to
head coach after he worked for two years as an assistant to
coach  Rick Pitino . At the time, he was the second-youngest head
coach in NBA history and compiled a 52-45 record.  Thorn, 72, as league president, will oversee both
basketball and referee operations, reporting directly to the
commissioner. He spent 14 seasons with the NBA before executive
stints with the Nets and the 76ers.  Stern is retiring in February and will be replaced as
commissioner by his deputy,  Adam Silver .  “As the NBA turns increasingly to analytics and continues
to tap into its growing fan and player base on a global basis,
there is much work to be done,” Thorn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  