-- Japan Atomic Study Shows Tsuruga Reactor Is Not on Active Fault
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-07-11T06:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/japan-atomic-study-shows-tsuruga-reactor-is-not-on-active-fault.html
Japan  Atomic Power Co., which has
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  as its largest shareholder, said in a
report submitted to the country’s nuclear regulator today that
its Tsuruga reactor isn’t on an active earthquake fault,
contradicting the authority’s findings.  Japan Atomic said data in the report filed with Japan’s
Nuclear Regulation Authority shows that three  fault lines  in the
area, including one that runs under the No. 2 reactor at its
Tsuruga plant, aren’t active because they haven’t moved in the
past 120,000 to 130,000 years.  The NRA approved a report in May by a group of scientists
led by Kunihiko Shimazaki, a commissioner with the agency, that
concluded a fault running under the unit was active. NRA
Chairman Shunichi Tanaka said at the time that this violated
safety regulations, while declining to assert that the ruling
meant the regulator would deny safety clearance needed to
restart the reactor in western Japan.  The NRA was determining how to review the data submitted by
Japan Atomic, agency spokesman Shinpei Hamamoto said.  “We’re willing to review our previous assessment, if we’re
provided with data showing there has been no fault line activity
over the past 120,000 to 130,000 years,” he said.  Kansai Electric Power Co. and three other regional
utilities have applied to the NRA for safety checks, a step
toward restarting reactors idled after the Fukushima atomic
disaster in March 2011.  All but two of Japan’s reactors are idled for safety
assessments after the 2011 earthquake and tsunami caused
meltdowns and radiation leaks at  Tokyo Electric ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The NRA was set up after the disaster to
independently review Japan’s nuclear power industry.  Japan Atomic would incur 256 billion yen ($2.59 billion) of
losses and become insolvent if the company decides to
decommission its two reactors at the Tsuruga plant and one at
its Tokai Dai-Ni nuclear station, the trade and industry
ministry estimated in June 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  