-- Juncker’s Luxembourg Government to Resign as Coalition Fails
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-07-11T08:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/juncker-s-luxembourg-government-to-resign-as-coalition-fails-1-.html
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the European Union’s longest-serving head of
government, said he’ll resign today after being implicated in a
security service spying probe.  Juncker, 58, who led the group of euro-area finance
ministers until early this year, said yesterday he’s stepping
down after his socialist party coalition ally called for early
elections. The move came after a July 5 report to Parliament
that said Juncker is “politically responsible” for failing to
inform lawmakers of “irregularities and supposed illegalities”
by the State Intelligence Service.  “I could never have imagined that out of all people
especially the socialist party would trip me up,” Juncker said
in a speech to the chamber in Luxembourg yesterday. He said his
government would meet at 10 a.m. local time today and that he
would go to the palace “to propose new elections to the Grand
Duke.” Elections must be held within three months.  Juncker, who has been Luxembourg’s premier since 1995, led
the Eurogroup from 2005 until Jan. 21, when he stepped back from
the front lines of the crisis. He’s been a driving force for the
single currency. A signatory of the 1992 Maastricht Treaty that
created the European Union and led to the creation of the euro,
he served as an intermediary between Germany and  France  in
hammering out the deficit-limiting stability pact in 1996 and in
softening it in 2005.  ‘Warring Tribes’  “Juncker kept the warring tribes together during the euro
crisis,” Fredrik Erixon, the director of the European Centre
for International Political Economy in Brussels, said in a phone
interview. “He did this through personal charm and lots of hard
work behind closed doors to keep Germany and France on the same
page.”  Juncker prodded German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to take on
bigger financial risks and argued that  Europe ’s bailout fund
should be allowed to buy  government bonds  and for joint European
bond sales with shared liability. Merkel has repeatedly rejected
the idea of euro bonds.  A chain smoker, who sometimes lights up cigarettes in
conference rooms where smoking is banned,  Juncker  used his
language skills to get the euro group’s messages across. At
press conferences, he would shift from speaking French, to
German, to English and his native Luxembourgish.  Secret Service  Juncker yesterday testified to  Parliament  and denied
allegations that he had used the secret service to further his
own aims and those of his Christian Social People’s Party.  “This is not the kind of person I am,” Juncker said. “If
you think that I am, then vote.”  The secret service is accused of irregularities and
possible illegal activities, especially during the period from
2004 to 2008, according to the report compiled by members of
parliament. The inquiry was triggered by reports last year that
the former head of the service had secretly recorded a
conversation with Juncker.  According to the parliamentary commission created in
December, the secret service engaged in the illegal interception
of communications. It found that a private security agency was
created by an active intelligence agent and raised questions
about Juncker’s role in securing an agency job for his driver, a
former policeman.  ‘In Chaos’  “The prime minister didn’t inform the parliament enough
and said nothing about the service being in chaos,” Xavier Bettel, president of the opposition  Democratic Party , said in
parliament on June 13. “You can’t say that it’s not your fault.
You have a political responsibility. There’s no more trust to be
had in the prime minister.”  Juncker initially challenged such assertions and refused to
step down, arguing that the prime minister can’t be expected to
resign over the alleged misconduct of a few intelligence agents.  “I’ve told you what my mistakes were,” Juncker said
yesterday. “I showed you that when operations failed, I stopped
them, and that if something went wrong, I did everything
possible to prevent it happening again. For that reason I cannot
accept personal responsibility.”  Juncker, who has been a  Luxembourg government minister
since 1984, spent his childhood in the south of the country,
where his father worked at a steel plant. His political life
began through his father’s union activities with the Luxembourg
Confederation of Christian Trade Unions.  In 1979, Juncker earned a law degree from the University of
Strasbourg. In 1982, a few days before his 28th birthday, he was
made state secretary for labor and social security. Two years
later he was elected to Luxembourg’s parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  