-- Junk Sales Halt as Morgan Stanley Recommends Hedge: China Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-07-11T01:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/junk-sales-halt-as-morgan-stanley-recommends-hedge-china-credit.html
The risk of a hard landing in
 China’s economy  has caused the longest drought in dollar-denominated junk bond sales in a year and encouraged Morgan
Stanley to recommend buying credit-default protection.  Amid the nation’s worst cash crunch on record, no Chinese
speculative-grade companies have marketed dollar notes since
 Central China Real Estate Ltd. (832)  raised $400 million selling five-year securities on May 22, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the longest stretch since the market went
quiet for 95 days through July 24 last year amid economic
concerns, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morgan Stanley on July 8 recommended buying options
allowing the sale of  yuan  against the dollar and contracts that
protect Chinese sovereign debt against non-payment. A government
report yesterday showed imports and exports unexpectedly fell in
June, underscoring the severity of the slowdown in the world’s
second-biggest economy as Premier Li Keqiang reins in credit
growth.  “The export data is another sign of a slowdown in domestic
demand,” Nishant Sood, a Hong Kong-based credit strategist at
Morgan Stanley said in a phone interview yesterday. Slowing
orders and falling producer prices “increase the risk of a
bear-case outcome in  China  and makes the case for a less
optimistic view on Chinese credits.”  Bond Returns  Five-year credit-default swaps insuring China’s sovereign
debt against non-payment rose four basis points to 126
yesterday, and touched a 17-month high of 147 on June 24,
according to CMA prices. The contracts pay the buyer face value
in exchange for underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  The yuan fell 0.08 percent to 6.1341 per dollar in  Shanghai 
yesterday. The currency’s appreciation has stalled in the past
month, limiting this year’s advance to 1.6 percent.  Chinese high-yield dollar bonds lost 4.7 percent in June,
the worst rout since November 2011, while  U.S. debt  dropped 2.6
percent, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Corp.
Similar notes from Russia and  Brazil  fell 3.4 percent and 7.1
percent respectively.  Companies including  Maoye International Holdings Ltd. (848)  and
 China Properties Group Ltd. (1838)  had planned to meet investors in the
past two months. They have yet to sell debt. Average yields on
 Asia ’s junk-rated securities reached  8.14 percent  on July 8, the
highest in more than a year, on the prospects of tapering of
stimulus by the  Federal Reserve .  ‘Bad Time’  “It’s a bad time for them to sell bonds,” said George
Hsu, a Taipei-based bond fund manager at PineBridge Investments
LLC, which oversees $71.5 billion of assets worldwide. The lack
of near-term refinancing needs, especially for property
developers, should mitigate the negative impact for the
companies, Hsu said.  Issuance of speculative-grade notes froze for 95 days last
year before  China Fishery Group Ltd. (CFG)  sold $300 million of debt
on July 24, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Overseas shipments from China fell 3.1 percent from a year
earlier in June, the most since the global financial crisis,
data showed yesterday, compared with the median estimate of a
3.7 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey. Imports dropped 0.7
percent, while the median projection was for a 6 percent
increase.  Slowing Growth  The slide in June comes after a crackdown on fake invoices
that inflated data in the first four months of the year. Premier
Li’s reluctance to add stimulus, as he tries to reduce the role
of the state in the economy, is being tested with growth in
danger of trailing the official 7.5 percent target for this
year.  Growth in China has held below 8 percent for the past four
quarters, the first time that has happened in at least 20 years.
In the latest sign the government may tolerate further
deceleration, President  Xi Jinping  said officials shouldn’t be
judged solely on their record in boosting gross domestic
product, the official Xinhua News Agency reported on June 29.  “China’s undergoing a financial-model adjustment and the
economy’s going to hurt for six to 12 months,” said PineBridge
Investments’ Hsu. “The government’s really adopting an
invisible-hand attitude towards the whole situation now.”  China’s benchmark seven-day repurchase rate reached 12.4
percent on June 20, the highest level since May 2006. It
averaged  6.92 percent  in June versus 3.30 percent the first five
months of the year. The credit crunch is likely to reduce credit
growth this year by 750 billion yuan ($122 billion), or an
amount equivalent to  Vietnam ’s annual economic output, based on
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Bond Redemptions  China’s 10-year government bonds yield climbed six basis
points yesterday to 3.58 percent, after gaining seven basis
points in June. Similar-maturity AAA corporate debt yields
increased two basis points to 5.12 percent yesterday and eight
basis points in June.  The market’s upheaval in June may be seasonal and was tied
to a spike in Treasury yields caused by the Fed’s signals,
according to  Steve Wang , head of fixed-income research at BOCI
Securities Ltd., a unit of Bank of China Ltd.  “Valuation has become relatively more attractive now with
little supply to worry about,” Hong Kong-based Wang said in a
phone interview yesterday. “ Home prices  are higher and property
sales are still strong, for example. I’d be more optimistic when
the market stabilizes after summer.”  Investors pulled money from emerging-market debt funds for
a sixth-straight week in the period ending July 3, with China
bond funds seeing another week of outflows, according to EPFR
Global.  “China’s economic slowdown has taken shape,” Brian Lee, a
Taipei-based  money manager  at Schroder Investment Management
Ltd. said by phone yesterday. His firm manages about $304
billion globally. “Investors are getting the impression that
the gist of ’Li-conomics’ really is the idea of no pain, no
gain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  