-- Kittel Tops Cavendish in Sprint for 3rd Tour de France Stage Win
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-07-11T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/kittel-nips-cavendish-in-sprint-on-12th-stage-of-tour-de-france.html
Sky’s Chris Froome kept the overall
lead as Marcel Kittel of Argos-Shimano outsprinted  Mark Cavendish  to win the 12th stage of the Tour de  France  by half a
wheel after a crash on the approach to the finish.  Kittel passed Cavendish, of the Omega Pharma-Quickstep
team, in the final 200 meters of the 218-kilometer (135-mile)
stage from Fougeres to Tours for his third win of this year’s
race.  “In the end, I had to go on his wheel,” the German said
in a televised interview. “It was close. It’s absolutely crazy.
I feel really great at the moment. The win today means a lot to
me.”  Froome, a Kenyan-born Briton, holds a lead of 3 minutes, 25
seconds over Movistar’s Alejandro Valverde of  Spain , with
Belkin’s Bauke Mollema of the Netherlands another 12 seconds
back.  The riders go today from Tours to Saint-Amand-Montrond, a
trip of 173 kilometers. Sky’s team is down to seven men after
Vasil Kiryienka missed the time cut on Stage 9.  Kittel dedicated yesterday’s victory to teammate Tom
Veelers, who was involved in an incident with Britain’s
Cavendish this week that left the Dutch rider on the ground
after a collision. Veelers called unsuccessfully upon Tour
organizers to ban Cavendish after the crash.  Cavendish -- a sprinter who has won the points
classification in the  Tour de France , Giro d’Italia and Vuelta a
Espana -- denied wrongdoing, and has been subject to taunts from
spectators. He had urine thrown on him during a time trial two
days ago.  A crash about 3 kilometers from the finish yesterday
entangled about a dozen riders. Froome’s teammate, Edvald
Boasson Hagen, broke his right shoulder blade in the accident,
and withdrew from the Tour. He won’t need surgery, Sky said on
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  