-- N.J. Democrats Struggle to Crawl Out From Booker’s Shadow
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-07-11T14:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/n-j-democrats-struggle-to-crawl-out-from-booker-s-shadow.html
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker  dabbed
sweat beading his forehead, standing outside a home in  New
Jersey ’s biggest city this week as he called for action to ease
foreclosures. Then the three other Democratic contenders in a
shortened U.S. Senate primary each got a chance to speak.  When candidate Sheila Oliver, the state Assembly speaker,
went to a June 19 rally in  East Orange  supporting a higher
 minimum wage , Booker was there, too. At a June 22 gay-rights
walk through Montclair, candidates Frank Pallone and Rush Holt,
both congressmen, found themselves outflanked by Booker, who
once put a marriage-equality symbol on his Twitter.com page.  As the four Senate hopefuls make joint appearances and
avoid taking potshots at each other, Oliver, Pallone and Holt
haven’t gained traction among voters against Booker. A poll from
 Quinnipiac University  this week showed 52 percent back the
mayor. Asked about the other candidates, 63 percent or more said
they don’t know enough about them to even form an opinion.  “It’s like Gilligan’s Island right now -- Cory Booker and
the rest,” said  Patrick Murray , the Monmouth University polling
institute director in  West Long Branch , referring to the 1960s
television comedy. “They’re just letting Booker have the
spotlight to himself here.”  Replacing Lautenberg  Booker, 44, is considered a shoo-in for the seat long held
by  Frank Lautenberg , a five-term Democrat who died in office
June 3. Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican seeking a second
term in November, set an Aug. 13 primary vote and an Oct. 16
general election for the Senate seat, and picked a temporary
replacement, Jeffrey Chiesa, a Republican who isn’t running.  Christie’s move prompted an unsuccessful court challenge
seeking to push the final vote to the Nov. 5 general election,
which would include all 120 seats in the state Assembly and
Senate. Democrats, who control the legislature, said the
governor sought to boost his own chances in November by keeping
the popular Booker from the top of the ballot.  The Newark mayor, a sometime Christie ally, dominated in
the Quinnipiac Senate survey, with Pallone his nearest rival at
10 percent. Holt got support from 8 percent in the poll while
Oliver stood at 3 percent, with 26 percent undecided. The survey
of 400 Democrats from the Hamden, Connecticut-based school had a
margin of error of plus or minus 5.4 percentage points.  ‘Different Lenses’  Oliver, 60, of East Orange, said the race is still in its
nascent phase because of the shortened timeframe. For now, the
four are focused on common “Democratic issues,” she said. As
the primary nears, she said she expects their differences in
dealing with those concerns to become more apparent.  “I think you’ll see it in a couple of weeks,” she said
after the July 9 foreclosure event in  Newark . “While we have an
interest in some of the same issues that are dealt with at a
federal level, I think that we have different lenses by which we
view those problems and how you can address them.”  Booker gained national attention last year for saving a
neighbor from a fire and for living on  food stamps  for a week to
show the difficulty of relying on the government-assistance
program. A Rhodes Scholar and Yale University-educated lawyer
who moved to Newark in 1996, he spoke at the 2012 Democratic
National Convention and helped lead its platform committee.  A frequent user of Twitter Inc.’s website, Booker has 1.3
million followers on it and has sent more than 29,000 messages,
from inspirational quotes to responses to residents’ complaints.
His efforts to turn around Newark have attracted support from
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  and hedge-fund leaders
including  Bill Ackman  and  Leon Cooperman .  Booker raised $4.6 million in the second quarter from more
than 7,000 donors, including almost 5,000 from out of state,
Addisu Demissie, his campaign spokesman, said today in a
statement. He’s garnered a total of $6.5 million so far. The
other candidates haven’t disclosed fundraising totals.  Party Unity  Highlighting common issues and appearing together isn’t a
bad plan for the Democratic Senate candidates, Booker said.  “I think we all are going to be communicating directly
with voters,” he said. “I spent the entire weekend having
substantive conversations, meeting with groups of pastors,
meeting with groups of citizens and we’re all going to be doing
that in this campaign.”  Pallone, 61, has faulted rivals for not signing a pledge
against special-interest money in the campaign and singled out
Booker for agreeing to only two debates, though he has never
criticized their policy positions.  Booker Shunned  Lautenberg’s family shunned Booker this week by endorsing
Pallone, who was first elected to Congress in 1988.  “ Frank Pallone , like our Frank, will put in the hours and
hard work necessary to fight for New Jersey in the Senate,” the
family said in a July 8 statement. “Frank Pallone knows that
gimmicks and celebrity status won’t get you very far in the real
battles that Democrats face in the future.”  State Democratic Party leaders had wanted the mayor to
challenge Christie, whose approval ratings soared after his
response to  Hurricane Sandy  last year. Instead, Booker said in
December that he would explore a Senate run. Lautenberg, who by
then hadn’t said whether he would seek a sixth term in 2014,
died of complications from viral pneumonia at the age of 89.  Party Loyalty  With Booker’s decision not to take on Christie, state
Senator Barbara Buono became the governor’s challenger. Buono, a
59-year-old Metuchen lawyer, trails Christie by 32 percentage
points, according to a July 10 Quinnipiac poll.  All four Democrats in the Senate race said the joint
appearances have been an important show of party loyalties.  “I’d like to see more opportunities where we are together
and that’s one of the reasons that I’ve asked that we have more
debates,” Pallone said. “When we get together and can show
where we have our similarities and our differences, I think
that’s the most important thing leading up to this election.”  The novelty of a special election and the truncated
timeframe are partly behind the inability of Democrats to
distinguish themselves,  Monmouth University ’s Murray said.  “We have a crazy election because the governor gave us a
crazy election,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  