-- N.Z. Faces Challenges to Achieve Prudent Debt, Treasury Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-07-11T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/n-z-faces-challenges-to-achieve-prudent-debt-treasury-says.html
Future  New Zealand  governments will
face considerable challenges to keep debt under control as the
population ages and the associated costs of healthcare and
pensions rise, the Treasury Department says.  Spending needs to be constrained and taxes may need to be
increased if the nation is to maintain a prudent level of
government debt in the future, the department said in a
statement on New Zealand’s long-term fiscal position released in
Wellington today. The report, which doesn’t contain
recommendations, looks almost 50 years ahead to 2060.  Finance Minister  Bill English  has curbed government
spending in an effort to return to a  budget surplus  by 2015, and
has targeted lowering government debt to 20 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020. Debt would be 27 percent of GDP by
2020 if the current fiscal strategy wasn’t in place and
historical growth in spending occurred, the Treasury said.  “The difference between what debt would look like in 2020
under the two scenarios captures well why governments have been
serious about adopting prudent short-to-medium term fiscal
strategies over the past two decades,” Treasury Secretary
Gabriel Makhlouf said in a statement. “Prudent fiscal
management has permitted our society to withstand some very big
shocks beyond the control of any government.”  Treasury outlines a scenario in the report assuming a
return to the sort of spending growth New Zealand experienced
historically, and a constant level of  tax revenue  as a share of
the economy. Under those assumptions,  government spending  surges
to 47 percent of GDP by 2060 from 33 percent in 2010, and debt
blows out to almost three times GDP.  To avoid that, the report outlines options that governments
could take either to reduce spending or gather more tax revenue.
These include raising the rate of  sales tax  to 17.5 percent from
15 percent, increasing the age of eligibility for pensions to 67
years from 65, curbing growth in health spending or linking tax
thresholds to inflation, which would progressively move wage
earners into paying a greater share of income as tax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  