-- Naspers Sells $750 Million in Africa’s First Debt Sale Since May
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2013-07-11T23:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/naspers-sells-750-million-in-africa-s-first-debt-sale-since-may.html
Naspers Ltd. (NPN) , Africa’s largest media
company, sold $750 million of seven-year debt in the region’s
first overseas corporate bond sale in two months as it seeks
funds to pay for acquisitions in emerging markets.  The senior unsecured notes were sold to yield 6 percent, or
4.02 percentage points more than similar maturity  U.S.
Treasuries , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the
company’s first offering abroad since it raised $700 million in
2010 with a sale of seven-year bonds that yielded 6.375 percent,
or 4 percentage points more than Treasuries.  African companies had been shut out of international
capital markets since May 2 as speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will reduce U.S. stimulus fueled record outflows from emerging
market bond funds. Average yields on corporate debt in the
region surged 1.62 percentage points over the span, more than
twice the jump in company borrowing costs globally, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. index data show.  The offering was priced “aggressively cheap,”  Michael Roche , an emerging-market fixed-income strategist at broker-dealer Seaport Group LLC, said in a telephone interview from New
York. “This is the first deal by an infrequent corporate
borrower since the market has tentatively reopened. It came
disproportionately cheaper to its existing and sector credit
spreads to ensure its placement.”  Expansion Plans  Naspers plans to use proceeds from the bond sale for
“future acquisitions and the repayment of existing credit
facilities,” according to a July 2 regulatory filing.  Investors pulled a record $23.3 billion from global bond
funds in the week ending June 26, with outflows from emerging
markets jumping to an all-time high, according to EPFR Global, a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based firm that tracks fund flows.  Naspers, based in  Cape Town , is expanding its Internet
business through acquisitions to take advantage of faster-growing emerging markets. The company plans to add to a
portfolio of overseas assets that includes a 34 percent stake in
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company, and 29
percent of Russian social-media and gaming provider  Mail.ru
Group Ltd. (MAIL)   Naspers was one of three investors in a $200 million
funding round for Flipkart Online Services Ltd., the Indian
online retailer said July 10.  The stock rose 1.6 percent to 770 rand yesterday in
Johannesburg. Naspers has advanced 42 percent this year, the
best performer after Mondi Group in the  FTSE/JSE Africa Top40 (TOP40) 
index of South Africa’s largest companies, which has increased
3.7 percent.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Naspers Baa3, the lowest
investment grade. The South African company had cash and cash
equivalents of 15.8 billion rand for the year ending March
compared with 9.8 billion rand a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  