-- Nestle Says China Baby-Formula Probe Won’t Hurt Margins
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-11T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/nestle-says-china-baby-formula-probe-won-t-hurt-margins.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s largest
foodmaker, said the Chinese government’s investigation on the
pricing of its  infant formula  will have no “reasonable material
impact” on Nestle’s margins in China in the long term.  Any effect from the probe will be offset by a bigger growth
in its other businesses, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke 
said at a press conference yesterday. The executive also said he
doesn’t expect the investigation will spill over into other
products.  “I don’t see any real material impact in the sense that
this is a part of a bigger business and bigger growth, so we can
handle that,” Bulcke said in Chuzhou city, China’s eastern
Anhui province where he opened a food factory yesterday.  Nestle’s Wyeth unit is one of the at least five foreign
milk powder producers being investigated by China’s top economic
planning agency on possible price-fixing and violating anti-monopoly laws. Danone, Abbott Laboratories,  Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co. (MJN)  and Dutch producer Royal FrieslandCampina NV have
also been named in the probe and all have announced price
reductions with some by as much as 20 percent.  China ’s National Development and Reform Commission has
evidence to show their pricing increased about 30 percent since
2008, the same year milk powder contaminated with the chemical
melamine killed six infants, according to an official People’s
Daily report that named the overseas producers in the
investigation.  Mead Johnson is the largest baby formula company in China
with a 14 percent market share last year, according to industry
researcher Euromonitor International. Hangzhou Beingmate Group
Co. ranked second with a 10 percent share, followed by Danone’s
9.2 percent.  ‘Transparent’ Framework  The Vevey, Switzerland-based foodmaker is working with the
Chinese government to create a “clear and transparent”
regulatory framework for the  food industry , including the infant
formula sector, Bulcke said.  “It’s only when there are clear rules that are followed by
everybody that you have very honest and sustainable
competition,” he said.  Nestle is also working with the authorities to help improve
 food safety  in the world’s most populous nation. Scandals
including kitchen waste reprocessed into cooking oil and rat
meat being sold as mutton have fueled demands for the government
to crack down on safety violations.  “We can share with the government what we think we can do,
how we have seen that regulation work well or not well in
certain countries,” Bulcke said.  Nestle is expanding in  emerging markets  such as China to
offset slow growth in Europe as a debt crisis there weighs on
 consumer spending . The maker of Nescafe Coffee and Yinlu peanut
milk beverages targets to receive 45 percent of its revenue from
emerging markets by 2020.  Nestle said yesterday it invested 880 million  yuan  ($144
million) in the building of a coffee plant in China’s Shandong
province and Bulcke yesterday opened a 2.1 billion yuan factory
with Yinlu Foods Group, 60 percent owned by Nestle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  