-- Netflix in Talks for Another Season of ‘Arrested Development’
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/netflix-in-talks-for-another-season-of-arrested-development-.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the largest
subscription video-streaming service, is in talks for another
season of “Arrested Development,” said Brian Grazer, co-chairman of the production company, Imagine Entertainment.  “We are in conversations with them to do another,” Grazer
said in an interview yesterday with Bloomberg Television at the
Allen & Co. conference in Sun Valley,  Idaho . “They are
interested in doing that.”  Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings has called “Arrested
Development” and other “Netflix originals” integral to his
strategy of transforming the company from a purveyor of rerun
programming into a Web-based television network offering a mix
of Hollywood movies and new shows, comparable to Time Warner
Inc.’s HBO.  Joris Evers, a spokesman for the Los Gatos, California-based company, didn’t respond to a phone message and e-mail
seeking comment.  All-new episodes of “Arrested Development” and the horror
series “Hemlock Grove” began streaming on Netflix in the
second quarter, and Hastings has said both exceeded viewing
expectations, without offering numbers. The revived show,
produced with 21st Century Fox Inc., follows the comedic
exploits of the Bluth family. Hastings originally said it was a
one-season undertaking, a position he hedged in May on CNBC.  “If the talent were willing to do more and interested in
that, I’m sure we would be willing,” Hastings told the network.  Netflix reports  second-quarter  results on July 22.
Investors are expected to focus on subscriber figures to see if
the company has parlayed its originals programs into new signups
and better customer retention. Netflix makes it easy to sign up
for a first month free and then quit.  The company recently ordered a second season of “Orange is
the New Black” and “Hemlock Grove,” joining new orders for
“House of Cards,” and “Lilyhammer.”  Netflix rose 0.1 percent to $244.17 yesterday in New York.
The stock has surged 164 percent this year and is the  top
performer  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index for 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  