-- Newcrest Paces Gains as Bernanke Backs Stimulus: Sydney Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-07-11T02:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/newcrest-paces-gains-as-bernanke-backs-stimulus-sydney-mover.html
Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM)  paced gains in
Asian gold stocks, rising the most in four years, after the U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments backing
sustained economic stimulus boosted the precious metal.  Newcrest,  the worst performer  this year among Australia’s
50 biggest stocks, rose 12 percent to A$11.11 in Sydney at 12:24
p.m., the most since Nov. 21, 2008.  OceanaGold Corp. (OGC)  advanced 16
percent,  Evolution Mining Ltd. (EVN)  surged 23 percent and  Beadell
Resources Ltd. (BDR)  added 16 percent. Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX
200 index rose 1.1 percent.  The U.S. will need highly accommodative monetary policy for
the foreseeable future, Bernanke said yesterday, leading
investors to return to havens including bullion. Gold for
immediate delivery rose 2 percent to $1,284.57 an ounce, the
highest level since June 21.  “Bullion is popping on the fact that most people are
shedding the  U.S. dollar  and heading back to the yen and back to
things like gold,” Evan Lucas, a Melbourne-based market
strategist at IG Markets Ltd., a provider of trading services
for equities, currencies and commodities, said by phone.  Elsewhere in Asia, Zijin Mining Group Co., China’s biggest
gold producer by value, climbed 3.3 percent to HK$1.57 and
Zhaojin Mining Industry Co. jumped 11 percent.  Newcrest also said it plans to cut staff and contractors at
its Telfer mine as part of a review prompted by falling prices
and high operating costs in Australia.  Job Cuts  The company is holding talks with 1,800 workers at Telfer
in Western Australia and hasn’t finalized the number of job
cuts,  Jason Mills , a spokesman for Melbourne-based Newcrest said
in an e-mailed statement.  Newcrest said last month it’s cutting spending, suspending
high-cost operations and closing its Brisbane office when a
charge of as much as A$6 billion ($5.5 billion) for fiscal 2013.
Similar reviews are being carried out at the company’s six
operating mines in Australia,  Papua New Guinea  and the Ivory
Coast, Mills said.  The producer said June 15 that it would cut as much as 7
percent of the 2,500 workers at its Lihir mine in Papua New
Guinea.  Investors also expect the company to seek job cuts at its
Hidden Valley mine, also in Papua New Guinea, Lucas said. “They
have tackled Lihir, they are tackling Telfer, the next one is
Hidden Valley, because it is just too expensive,” he said.  Perennial Investment Partners Ltd. said it had sold its
holding in Newcrest last month after the company announced its
expected record writedown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  