-- Neymar Investor Meeting Santos for Answers on Barcelona Move
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-07-12T15:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/neymar-investor-seeks-contract-after-collecting-8-9-million-fee.html
Brazilian soccer-player investment
group DIS Esporte is seeking to find out if it’s owed more than
the 6.84 million euros ($8.9 million) it received following
Santos striker Neymar’s move to Spanish champion Barcelona in
May, Executive Director Roberto Moreno said.  DIS has been asking to see the contract for a month. The
group, controlled by supermarket chain owner Delcir Sonda, paid
Santos 5.5 million reais ($2.6 million) for a 40 percent stake
in the 21-year-old forward’s transfer rights in 2009.  “I’ve not been shown a single document, so I will go to
Santos’s headquarters,” Moreno said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “After that we will decide if we need to go to the
courts.”  Santos spokesman Arnaldo Hase said Moreno is currently
meeting with the team’s Vice President Adilio Rodrigues and said
the team doesn’t believe it owes additional money. Santos is one
of  Brazil ’s best-known teams, and is where Pele spent the
majority of his career.  Neymar has banked millions of dollars in endorsements for
companies including  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  since breaking
into Santos as a teenager. He was chosen best player at last
month’s Confederations Cup, a test event for next year’s  World
Cup . Brazil beat world champions Spain 3-0 in the final of the
Confederations Cup.  Santos transferred 6.84 million euros to DIS Esporte two
days ago, Moreno said. DIS officials believe the company is owed
more for its stake after a Barcelona director said it cost 57
million euros to secure Neymar’s signing, he said.  Signing-On Fee  Hase said Santos got 17.1 million euros from Barcelona and
confirmed 40 percent of that fee was transferred to DIS, and a
further 5 percent was paid to a group called Teisa.  “That’s the money we have to pay because it’s 40
percent,” he said in a telephone interview. “There’s no magic
in this number.”  As part of the agreement that took Neymar to Barcelona,
Santos also negotiated two friendly matches with the Catalan
team worth about 4.5 million euros, Hase said. Barcelona will
pay a further 8 million euros as part of a three-year agreement
giving the Catalan club the first option on any Santos player,
he said. The first friendly game will take place at Barcelona’s
Camp Nou on Aug 1.  “I need to see proof,” Moreno said. “I’ve read lots of
things in the media but seen no documentary evidence.”  Transfer Rights  It’s common practice for Brazilian soccer clubs to sell
transfer rights of up-and-coming players to investors to raise
revenue. DIS Esporte, which has a stake in the rights of as many
as 80 players, is controlled by Sao Paulo-based supermarket
chain owner Sonda.  Barcelona vice president Josep Maria Bartomeu said at a
June 3 news conference he couldn’t disclose the breakdown of the
Spanish champion’s 57 million euro outlay, citing a
confidentiality agreement. Folha de  Sao Paulo  reported 40
million euros was paid to Neymar as a signing fee. Where the
money went is “a good question,” Hase said. “Because it
didn’t go to Santos.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  