-- Nuland Quizzed on Benghazi Stance in Senate Hearing
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-12T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/nuland-quizzed-on-benghazi-stance-in-senate-hearing.html
Former State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  faced Republican criticism of her role in
shaping the Obama administration’s initial explanation of the
attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya, as she sought
confirmation for a top policy job.  Nuland, nominated by President  Barack Obama  to be assistant
secretary of State for European and Eurasian affairs, told the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee yesterday that she sought
changes in a draft by the CIA that was “inappropriately
crafted” and misleading.  Republicans used the nomination hearing to renew their
questions about initial administration comments saying
erroneously that the attack on Sept. 11, 2012, that killed
Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans grew
out of a “spontaneous demonstration.”  “I’m concerned about your willingness to provide truthful
and relevant information to the American people,” Senator  John Barrasso  of Wyoming told Nuland.  No senator expressed reservations about Nuland’s nomination
for the post overseeing Europe and Eurasia policy, and the 29-year veteran of the Foreign Service may be aided in winning
confirmation by a resume with bipartisan credentials.  Before serving under Obama at the State Department, she was
a deputy national security adviser to Vice President  Dick Cheney 
during the George W. Bush administration. Her husband, Robert Kagan, was an adviser to the Republican presidential campaigns
of  Mitt Romney  and  John McCain .  ‘Never Edited’  Nuland said she played only a limited role in the review of
the Benghazi explanation and never discussed it with  Hillary Clinton , who was secretary of state, or  Susan Rice , who was
ambassador to the  United Nations  and who delivered the talking
points on Sunday talk shows five days after the attack.  “I never edited these talking points, I never made
changes,” Nuland said. She said she was concerned that the
Central Intelligence Agency draft -- which said that agency had
repeatedly warned the State Department of terrorist threats in
Benghazi -- had offered a “mistaken and flawed perception.”  “My concern was they were inappropriately crafted as
points for the media and they would be misleading,” Nuland
said. “What mattered most was a full and fair investigation.”  Nuland also made clear that there was concern in the State
Department over confusion because the U.S. presence in Benghazi
also included what had been a secret CIA annex.  Checking Instincts  “I had to be extremely attentive to the equities of other
government agencies,” Nuland said. “I simply asked policy
people above me to check my instincts.”  Nuland’s role became public in May with the
administration’s disclosure of e-mails on the talking points. In
one of them, Nuland said that mention of the CIA warnings
“could be abused by members” of Congress “to beat up the
State Department for not paying attention to warnings, so why
would we want to feed that?”  The passage that she challenged eventually was deleted.  Republicans such as McCain, an  Arizona  senator, have said
the administration was eager last year to downplay any fresh
hint of terrorism as Obama sought re-election.  “You were a little more concerned about the State
Department getting beaten up by members of Congress,” Wisconsin
Senator  Ron Johnson  told Nuland yesterday.  “My concern was this was not an accurate representation of
the full picture,” she replied.  Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a Republican viewed as a
potential presidential candidate, praised Nuland’s
qualifications for the job and all but apologized for focusing
most of his time on Benghazi, saying, “You’re quite frankly the
only witness we have.”  Barrasso said Republicans on the committee have sought
additional hearings on Benghazi and have received no response
from the Democratic chairman, Senator  Robert Menendez  of New
Jersey, in two months. Menendez didn’t attend yesterday’s
hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  