-- NYC’s Vance Runs Unopposed After Weathering Strauss-Kahn
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-07-11T16:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/nyc-s-vance-runs-unopposed-after-weathering-strauss-kahn.html
Cyrus Vance Jr. is poised to run
unopposed for re-election as  Manhattan  district attorney after a
first term that saw the streamlining of criminal cases, protests
against Wall Street and the arrest of  Dominique Strauss-Kahn .  With a filing deadline at midnight tonight, the 59-year-old
Democrat has no challenger for the Sept. 10 primary or Nov. 5
general election, barring a last-minute run like the one by
former governor and attorney general  Eliot Spitzer  for the post
of comptroller.  Vance won the job in 2009, following Robert Morgenthau’s
retirement after 35 years in office. With Morgenthau’s
endorsement, Vance beat an ex-judge and former assistant
district attorney in the primary. No Republican faced him in the
general election.  “The political reality of these races is: An incumbent
sitting prosecutor is tough -- a relatively young, popular
prosecutor is almost impossible,” said Michael Cherkasky, who
served as chief of the investigations division under Morgenthau,
 New York  state’s longest-sitting district attorney.  Cherkasky said in an interview that he quit as Vance’s
finance-committee chairman last year when he decided the
candidate didn’t need his help getting re-elected.  “I think he’s done a good job and he has a good record,”
Morgenthau, 93, said in a telephone interview.  Jimmy Carter  Vance represents the people of New York state in criminal
cases brought in Manhattan.  New York City ’s other four boroughs
each have their own DA.  The son of Cyrus Vance, former secretary of state to
President  Jimmy Carter , he has gathered about 46,000 signatures
to get on the ballot, more than 10 times the required amount,
said campaign spokesman  Stu Loeser . With no opponent in the
primary, Vance’s name would appear on the ballot only in
November’s general election, Loeser said.  Vance drew some criticism during his first term for
dropping sexual-assault charges against Strauss-Kahn, the former
International Monetary Fund chief who was accused of attacking a
hotel maid, and for his treatment of  Occupy Wall Street 
protesters.  His office dismissed the Strauss-Kahn case in 2011 after
concluding the housekeeper at the midtown Sofitel lied about
events. Strauss-Kahn denied the charges.  ‘Handled Properly’  “The DA’s race is never going to turn on a single case,”
said  Gerald Shargel , a criminal-defense lawyer at Winston &
Strawn LLP in New York. “With the distance of time and the
cooling of opinions, people realize the DSK case was handled
properly.”  Letitia James, a member of the New York City Council,
organized rallies protesting Vance’s handling of the case and
said it could chill legitimate claims from rape victims. James,
of the Working Families party, said she now supports him.  “Although we haven’t always agreed, District Attorney
Vance has been a strong DA for New York, and has a proven record
of effectiveness, specifically in dismantling organized crime
throughout our city,” James said in a statement.  During the 2011 Occupy  Wall Street  rallies in lower
Manhattan, including outside the district attorney’s
headquarters at 1 Hogan Place, the office handled more than
2,000 arrests, while choosing not to prosecute a police officer
who appeared to pepper spray two protesters.  Martin Stolar, an attorney associated with the National
Lawyers Guild who represented many of the protesters, criticized
the way Vance handled some arrests.  Bridge Cases  “There were a number of cases in Occupy Wall Street that
should have been dropped and weren’t,” including charges
against about 700 people for marching on the Brooklyn Bridge,
Stolar said. Vance didn’t appear to be independent because he
believed everything the police said, Stolar added.  Vance’s office offered to dismiss charges against most of
the protesters if they weren’t arrested again in six months,
known as adjournment in contemplation of dismissal, and all
cases were reviewed individually, ensuring fairness, said Vance
spokeswoman  Erin Duggan . Of more than 2,600 cases reviewed, 67
have gone to trial, according to Vance’s office.  Chief Assistant District Attorney  Daniel R. Alonso , who has
served under Vance since 2010, said the office has changed the
way the criminal court handles the almost 100,000 misdemeanor
cases that flow through it each year.  Cases Postponed  When Vance took office, many cases were postponed
repeatedly because judges were unavailable, while others were
dismissed because the case wasn’t ready for trial by the
statutory deadline, Alonso said.  Vance streamlined the process, notably in drunken-driving
cases, according to Alonso. More than 400 cases of driving while
intoxicated were dismissed in 2009 under speedy-trial rules,
Alonso said. That number has fallen by 90 percent, he said.  “Every DWI case is a potential vehicular homicide, so
those cases are important,” Alonso said.  Vance also pushed for the “all crimes DNA” bill that
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  signed into law last year. Under the law,
almost every person convicted of a misdemeanor or felony must
provide a DNA sample that goes into national databases, helping
 law enforcement  solve cold cases and future crimes, Alonso said.  Data Unit  The office also formed a data-focused unit to examine the
financial aspects of illicit activity from street crime to
cybercrime. In addition, Vance helped to form a white collar
crime task force that will seek legislative changes to make
enforcement more effective, and set up a cybercrime lab to help
computer forensic staff better catch  identity theft  and other
technology-linked crime.  During Vance’s tenure, city, state and federal authorities
reached four agreements with banks over  money laundering  and
violations of trade sanctions. The agreements with HSBC Holdings
Plc, Standard Chartered Plc, ING Groep NV and Barclays Plc have
resulted in more than $1 billion in settlement funds going to
the city and state.  “With DSK and all the criticisms, you have a feeling he’s
not just doing things because they’re politically correct. He’s
doing them because they’re the right thing to do,” said
Cherkasky, who was appointed by the U.S. Justice Department to
monitor HSBC’s compliance with the settlement. “He’s an honest
broker in these incredibly partisan times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  