-- Obama’s Ad Men Turning Movie Nights Into Mini-Elections
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-07-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/obama-s-ad-men-turning-movie-nights-into-mini-elections.html
Two of the masterminds behind
President  Barack Obama ’s analytics-fueled campaign-advertising
operation say they’ve been inundated with inquiries from
corporate executives eager to apply the tactics that won the
2012 presidential race to their marketing efforts.  “We’re sort of handing out water in the desert,” Larry
Grisolano, the co-founder of  Analytics Media Group,  said at a
Bloomberg Government luncheon yesterday in  Washington .  The company, established in December to take their strategy
for reaching voters and sell it to corporations trying to reach
customers, sees the automotive, insurance, and  movie industries 
as prime targets for their services, said Jeff Link, the chief
executive officer of the firm.  They’re sectors in which consumers routinely make choices -
- what movie to see or which car model to buy -- just as voters
do every election year.  “Our whole approach is, why buy places when you can buy
people?” Link said, describing how the firm uses a method that
crunches television-viewing information with consumer data to
target voters and consumers in a far more specialized way than
traditional advertising campaigns.  In the 2012 campaign, the strategy allowed Obama’s team to
slice and dice the voters they needed to reach so thinly -- and
pinpoint which programs they would be watching at which times --
that they were able to spend their money more efficiently.  Cable Ads  While Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  would run
five or six advertisements around television news programs,
whose viewers had mostly made up their minds on whom to back in
the race, Obama was running eight times as many commercials on
cable, Grisolano said. The Romney campaign bought advertising on
18  cable  networks during the campaign, Link said, compared with
60 for the Obama campaign, including niche stations such as TV
Land, which airs many reruns and comedy programs, and Big Ten
Network, a sports station.  Prospective clients that could benefit from that sort of
precision, they said, include automakers who want more
efficiency in their $1 billion-plus advertising buys and yogurt
purveyors interested in reclaiming lost market-share from
competitors.  Even with the move to the corporate world, the two campaign
veterans are keeping their feet firmly grounded in Democratic
politics.  Grisolano, the Chicago-based partner at AKPD Message and
Media who served as the Obama campaign’s director of paid media
in both 2008 and 2012, is working on the Iowa campaign of
Representative Bruce Braley, running to succeed retiring Senator
 Tom Harkin . He’s also handling media for former White House
Chief of Staff Bill Daley’s Illinois gubernatorial run and  New
York  Public Advocate Bill de Blasio’s mayoral campaign.  Link, an Iowa native and former Harkin aide who runs the
Des Moines-based political firm LinkStrategies, is also working
with Braley.  “I guarantee our clients are going to have well-targeted
buys,” Grisolano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  