-- Obama Gets Negative Marks From Voters Upset With Policies
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-07-11T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/obama-gets-negative-marks-from-voters-upset-with-policies.html
President  Barack Obama  gets negative
marks from registered U.S. voters for his handling of foreign
policy, immigration and the economy, and a decline in support
from women and independents kept down his overall performance
rating in a poll released today.  The  Quinnipiac University survey  showed 48 percent of
respondents disapproving of Obama’s job performance and 44
percent approving, virtually unchanged from the 49 percent
negative rating and 45 percent positive mark for him in a May
poll. In an April poll, Obama was given a positive grade by 49
percent and a negative one by 45 percent.  The president “is in a slump, under water for the last two
surveys,” said Peter Brown, assistant director of the Hamden,
Connecticut-based Quinnipiac polling institute.  “Generally, voters don’t seem happy with some of the
president’s policies, but they still give him majority support
on his personal characteristics such as honesty and
leadership,” Brown said.  His backing from women voters has taken a “noticeable
drop,” according to a statement issued by the institute,
falling to a 48 approval rating in the new poll from 56 percent
in April.  Women voters were a crucial element of Obama’s re-election
coalition, supporting him, 55 percent to 44 percent, as men
voters backed Republican challenger  Mitt Romney , 52 percent to
45 percent, according to  exit polling . Obama won the overall
popular vote, 51 percent to 47 percent.  Independent Voters  Today’s Quinnipiac poll shows Obama’s approval rating also
declining among independent voters, to 36 percent now from 44
percent in the April survey.  Since early May, the Obama administration has been battered
by the Internal Revenue Service’s admission that it flagged Tea
Party groups when reviewing applications for nonprofit status,
by revelations that the Justice Department seized journalists’
records as part of its probes into leaks of national security
information, and by Edward Snowden’s disclosure of the
government’s broad surveillance of telephone calls and Internet
usage. Snowden, who worked for McLean, Virginia-based federal
contractor  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , fled the country
and faces espionage charges.  The administration also has faced criticism over its policy
toward  Syria , wracked by civil war, and its response to the
ouster of the elected Islamic government in  Egypt  by the
military.  Foreign Affairs  In the new poll, respondents disapproved of the way Obama
handled foreign policy, 52 percent to 40 percent.  On Syria, 48 percent gave him negative marks and 33 percent
positive ratings. With the administration recently announcing
plans to send arms to the rebels seeking to topple Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, 61 percent said the U.S. shouldn’t
get involved in the conflict and 59 percent opposed arming the
anti-government groups.  By 49 percent to 38 percent, voters did approve of the use
of unmanned drones or missiles to attack Syrian government
targets.  On the domestic front, voters disapproved of Obama’s
handling of the immigration issue, 50 percent to 41 percent.  Hispanics were another key voting bloc for Obama in 2012,
backing him 71 percent to 27 percent over Romney. The president
has spotlighted as a second-term priority passage of a revision
of immigration policy that includes a path to citizenship for an
estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S.  Obama also got low marks on his handling of the economy,
with 41 percent approving and 55 percent disapproving.  Still, by 35 percent to 22 percent, poll respondents said
the economy was improving. And by 44 percent to 38 percent, they
said they trusted Obama more than congressional Republicans to
fix it.  Payrolls grew by 195,000 workers last month, with the
national unemployment rate remaining at 7.6 percent.  The June 28-July 8 survey of 2,014 registered voters had a
margin of error of plus or minus 2.2 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 