-- Hogan, Katten, White & Case, Davis Polk: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-07-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/hogan-katten-white-case-davis-polk-business-of-law.html
Hogan Lovells  LLP is starting a
Brazil practice in Rio de Janeiro and opening its 44th office.  Claudette Christian, a partner in the firm’s finance
practice group who has worked in Brazil since the mid-1990s,
will be office managing partner.  The Brazilian Bar approved the firm’s expansion into Rio de
Janeiro and Sao Paulo and the firm’s Rio de Janeiro office will
operate as a foreign legal consultancy, offering international
capabilities to Brazilian clients and companies doing business
in Brazil and Latin America. It will also assist foreign
companies entering the Brazilian market, the firm said.  “Given Hogan Lovells’s extensive history with local
clients and the rate at which the Brazilian market is growing,
establishing an office in Rio de Janeiro was both a natural and
crucial next step for the firm,” Warren Gorrell, co-chief
executive officer of Hogan Lovells, said in a statement. “We
see long-term opportunities in areas like infrastructure and
energy, where we have leading global practices.”  Hogan Lovells has represented companies in Brazil for
almost two decades, the firm said. Christian, a former co-chairwoman of the firm’s global board, has more than 25 years of
international commercial and corporate transactional experience.  Most recently, she has worked on international finance
transactions in gas transportation, and in equity and debt
investments in offshore oil and gas production, wireless
telecommunications projects, and renewable energy projects.  She is joined by a team of three Hogan Lovells lawyers in
Rio de Janeiro.  Hogan Lovells has more than 2,500 lawyers at more than 40
offices in the U.S.,  Europe ,  Latin America , the  Middle East  and
 Asia .  Moves  Katten Hires Internet and IP Attorney to Head New Practice  Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP announced that Brian J.
Winterfeldt joined the firm as a partner and head of Katten’s
new Internet practice. He is joined by four lawyers from his
previous firm, Steptoe & Johnson LLP.  Winterfeldt has experience in intellectual-property law
including domestic and international trademark counseling,
enforcement and litigation, as well as a concentration in
Internet governance and domain name issues.  “Bringing Brian on board and launching a new practice area
that deals with Internet governance and domain name legal
strategies illustrate Katten’s commitment to expand into
innovative, emerging new areas,” Vincent A.F. Sergi, Katten’s
chairman, said in a statement.  Winterfeldt has experience in Internet issues such as the
new generic top-level domain program as well as social media,
and strategies for brand promotion and IP protection in these
spaces.  Debra Hughes, who has been IP counsel with the American Red
Cross for the past five years, will join Katten’s new Internet
practice as special counsel.  Katten has more than 600 attorneys at offices in the U.S.,
London and Shanghai.  White & Case Hires German Tax Lawyer in Frankfurt  Bodo Bender, previously at Shearman & Sterling LLP, will
join  White & Case  LLP as a tax partner in the Frankfurt office.  Bender, who will join the global mergers and acquisitions
practice, where he will focus on the structuring of complex
domestic and cross-border mergers and acquisitions, joint
ventures and restructurings, working on behalf of sovereign
wealth funds, financial institutions and large corporate, the
firm said.  “His established track record as a tax lawyer aligns with
the firm’s global strategy to strengthen our M&A practice, in
which tax advice is structurally integral to transactions from
inception to maturity. He’s therefore an ideal strategic fit for
our German and cross-border ambitions and will bring additional
breadth to our German tax practice,” Markus Hauptmann, the
firm’s regional section head in  Germany , said in a statement.  White & Case has lawyers in 39 offices in 27 countries.  Baker & McKenzie Lawyers Joins Dentons in Silicon Valley  Dentons US LLP announced that C. Matthew Schulz has joined
as a partner in the firm’s Silicon Valley office. He was
previously at Baker & McKenzie LLP, where he was head of the
global immigration and mobility practice in  California .  Schulz advises employers on planning and implementing
global transfers, including visas, employment agreements,
employee benefits and tax planning.  “We serve a global client base with specific employment
needs that involve the cross border transfer of a sophisticated
and highly-skilled talent pool. Matt’s experience and reputation
will ensure that our multinational clients can place their top
talent when and where they are needed,” said Sandra R. McCandless, head of Dentons’s employment practice in California.  Dentons has more than 2,500 lawyers and professionals in 79
locations in 52 countries in Africa, Asia, Europe the Middle
East and  North America .  Davis Polk Adds Finance Partner Monica Holland in New York  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP announced that Monica L.Holland
will join the firm in  New York  as a partner in its credit group.
She was previously a partner in Shearman & Sterling LLP’s
finance group.  Holland has experience in corporate and leveraged finance.
She has represented financial institutions and corporate
borrowers in connection with corporate finance transactions,
including domestic and cross-border acquisition and leveraged
buyout financings, first- and second-lien financings, workouts
and debt restructurings, the firm said.  Davis Polk has almost 800 lawyers in 10 offices in the
Americas, Europe and Asia.  Jones Day Adds to Its Latin American Practice in Miami  Jones Day announced that Rafael Aguilar joined its Miami
office as a partner in the banking and finance practice. He was
previously at Akerman Senterfitt LLP, where he was co-chairman
of Akerman’s Latin American and Caribbean practice.  Aguilar represents financial institutions, private equity
funds, real estate developers, and investors in commercial
transactions in Latin America and the U.S., with an emphasis on
mortgage and mezzanine financings, acquisitions and
dispositions, and joint ventures. He also has experience in the
structuring and formation of real estate investment funds,
distressed investments and loan restructurings, transportation
infrastructure, and public-private partnerships, the firm said.  “Latin America capabilities are critical to our success in
Miami, and indeed, a major part of our decision to expand
here,” Pedro Jimenez, partner-in-charge of  Jones Day ’s Miami
office, said in a statement. “Rafael greatly increases the
breadth and quality of the services we can provide to our
clients that are doing business in Latin America.”  Jones Day has more than 2,400 lawyers at 40 offices
worldwide.  Perkins Coie Adds Lawyers in Three California Offices  Perkins Coie LLP added three lawyers this week. Michael A.
Glenn, formerly of the Glenn Patent Group, joined the firm’s
 Palo Alto  office as a partner in the intellectual property
practice. Jonesh G. Daryanani, formerly of Loeb & Loeb LLP,
joined the firm’s  Los Angeles  office as a partner in the firm’s
labor and employment practice. And David Chiappetta rejoined the
firm as a partner in the commercial litigation practice.
Chiappetta was at Corrs Chambers Westgarth in  Melbourne ,
 Australia .  Glenn has experience in patent prosecution, including IP
audits and strategy, opinions of counsel, pre-litigation patent
defense and assertion, appeals, reissues and reexaminations, the
firm said.  Daryanani focuses his practice on all employment and labor
litigation and client counseling, including  trade secrets  and
employee mobility litigation. He represents clients in civil
litigation, including class actions and administrative
proceedings involving wages and hours, discrimination,
harassment and retaliation, the firm said.  In his previous position, Chiappetta prosecuted antitrust
and consumer-protection cases on behalf of the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission, the Australian government’s
competition watchdog, the firm said. He has represented
corporations on litigation matters with a focus on class
actions, complex contractual disputes, antitrust and consumer
protection claims.  Perkins Coie  has more than 900 lawyers in 19 offices in the
U.S. and Asia.  Barnes & Thornburg Adds Atlanta Entertainment Attorney  Barnes & Thornburg LLP added Stephen Weizenecker as a
partner in the entertainment and music practice group in
Atlanta. He was previously a partner at Lewis, Brisbois,
Bisgaard & Smith LLP.  Weizenecker works with companies in the entertainment and
technology industries, with a focus on film and television, on
branding and marketing endeavors. He has experience in the
implementation of tax incentive systems for the attraction of
entertainment business, the firm said.  Barnes & Thornburg has more than 600 attorneys and other
legal professionals at 12 U.S. offices.  Pepper Hamilton Adds Corporate and Securities Lawyer  Pepper Hamilton LLP announced that Ryan B. Bowers has
joined the firm as an attorney in the corporate and securities
practice group in  Detroit . He was previously general counsel and
vice president of operations at Contrast Mechanical Inc.  Bowers concentrates his practice on technology law,
intellectual property transactions, software licensing, service
agreements and  venture capital .  Pepper Hamilton has more than 500 lawyers at 12 U.S.
offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York,
at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 