-- OGX Investor Seeks to Block Batista From Oil Asset Sales
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-07-11T14:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/ogx-shareholder-seeks-to-block-batista-from-selling-oil-assets.html
An  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA (OGXP3)  shareholder asked a Rio de Janeiro court to block asset sales
and payments to companies affiliated with billionaire controller
 Eike Batista . The company’s bonds fell to records.  The case was submitted by Rio lawyer and professor Jorge
Lobo on behalf of his son Marcio Lobo, who owns 84,000 shares in
the  oil company , according to the filing, a copy of which was
obtained by  Bloomberg News . The filing couldn’t immediately be
verified in records at Rio’s Fifth Business Court.  “OGX’s situation is of dramatic pre-insolvency,”
according to the document e-mailed by Jorge Lobo, citing
 Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch Rating Ltd.’s CCC  ratings  as
examples of the company’s financial situation. EBX Group Co.,
Batista’s holding company, is “in a deep financial crisis,” he
wrote.  EBX, created by Batista as an umbrella group for his
commodities and energy units, announced yesterday that it
restructured a $2 billion investment by Mubadala Development Co.
after the billionaire’s six publicly traded companies lost a
combined $10 billion in market value this year. OGX’s dollar
bonds due in 2018 fell as much as 20 percent to 17.99 cents on
the dollar, a record. The stock has tumbled 86 percent this year
after missing targets and abandoning fields.  The press departments of EBX and OGX in Rio declined to
comment on the injunction request. Batista announced last month
that OGX and EBX restructured debt and only has long-dated
maturities. The restructuring “is clear evidence of EBX’s high
level of commitment toward its obligations with stakeholders,”
he said then, without providing further details.  Partner Search  Batista is seeking to bring in partners and inject fresh
capital into OGX, a person with direct knowledge of the plan
said last week. Grupo BTG Pactual, the investment bank adviser
to Batista’s companies, is scouring for prospective oil field
partners, according to the person, who asked not to be
identified because negotiations are private.  Injunctions are necessary because there is “a high risk of
default and sale of assets and rights,” said Jorge Lobo, who is
a professor at Rio de Janeiro State University and has published
a book called Shareholders Rights,  according  to his firm’s
website.  The Lobos requested in the filing that OGX be barred from
paying back any  debt  it owes EBX or any of Batista’s companies.
On July 1, OGX said it won’t lease an oil platform from
Batista’s shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , as was planned, and may
return another platform next year. OGX also paid OSX $449
million and will continue to pay platform fees until they are
sold or relocated.  Sells Shares  Batista sold OGX shares in June for the second time in as
many months as the billionaire unloads assets including his
Embraer Legacy 600 jet to raise cash. OGX’s controlling
shareholder sold 75.4 million reais in shares from June 7 to
June 13 for as much as 1.39 reais each, the company said in a
filing yesterday.  On July 1 OGX shares dropped 30 percent after it canceled
orders for new oil platforms and said it may halt output next
year at its only producing oil field.  The sale was part of a restructuring EBX completed in June
and Batista won’t sell additional OGX shares, EBX said in an e-mailed statement. OGX rose 3.4 percent to 61 centavos in  Sao
Paulo  at 11:30 a.m.  Board Resignations  The two remaining independent members of OGX’s board, Luiz
do Amaral and Samir Zraick, have resigned, the company said
yesterday in a separate filing. Three other board members,
including former Finance Minister Pedro Malan, left last month,
OGX said June 21. OGX will find replacements, it said.  “It is very much on people’s radar,” Russ Dallen, a
fixed-income investor at Caracas  Capital Markets , said in a
telephone interview from Miami, referring to the case. “The
2018 bonds were down and the lawsuit just added to the trouble.
It definitely is getting confusing.”  The case is 0236942-88.2013.8.19.0001, according to the Rio
Judiciary’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  