-- Oilseed Crops in India Seen Climbing to Cut Reliance on Imports
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2013-07-11T06:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/oilseed-crops-in-india-seen-climbing-to-cut-reliance-on-imports.html
Oilseed output in  India , the world’s
second-biggest cooking oils importer, may increase this year as
the best start to monsoon in more than a decade spurs sowing of
soybeans and peanuts, according to a government official.  Production  will increase from 30.72 million metric tons in
the year ended June 30, Agriculture Commissioner J.S. Sandhu
said in an interview in New Delhi, without giving a precise
estimate for output this year. A bigger harvest may help India
cut reliance on cooking oil imports, he said.  Rising production may boost exports of oilseed meals and
trim imports of palm and soybean oils to meet a supply gap.
India is the world’s biggest cooking oil consumer after  China 
and meets more than half of its demand through imports. It buys
 palm oil  from Indonesia and Malaysia and  soybean oil  from the
U.S., Brazil and  Argentina .  “Even if production goes higher, there may be a marginal
decline in imports as per capita consumption is increasing,”
said Prasoon Mathur, senior manager at Religare Commodities Ltd.
“The availability of all oils will improve. The output can
increase maximum 5 percent.”  India imported 9.9 million tons of cooking oils in the 12
months ended Oct. 31, 18 percent more than a year earlier,
according to the  Solvent Extractors Association of India .
Purchases advanced 10 percent to 6.2 million tons in the seven
months to May, data from the association showed.  ‘Timely Sowing’  Farmers planted oilseeds on 11.02 million hectares (27.2
million acres) as of July 5 compared with 2.65 million hectares
during the same period in 2012, according to the  Agriculture
Ministry . Soybean planting may exceed last year’s 10.9 million
hectares as sowing gains in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra
states, the biggest growers, Sandhu said. The oilseed was
planted on 8.3 million hectares as of July 5 compared with 1.9
million hectares during the same period in 2012.  “Timely sowing and well-distributed rainfall will increase
the yields,” Sandhu said. The weather in August will be crucial
for the oilseed crops, he said.  The monsoon rainfall was 32 percent more in June than a 50-year average considered normal for the month and the highest
since 2001, according to the  India Meteorological Department .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  