-- Home-Loan Applications for New Houses Fall 15%, MBA Says
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-07-11T20:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/home-loan-applications-for-new-houses-fall-15-mba-says.html
Loan applications for purchases of
new U.S. homes tumbled last month, a sign rising mortgage  rates 
may have damped demand for builders, according an index released
today by the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  The Builder Application Survey showed a 15 percent decline
in loan submissions in June from the previous month, the
Washington-based group said in a statement. The newly created
gauge tracks application volume predominantly from mortgage
units of large homebuilders across the country.  The survey may be an indicator of  new-home sales , since the
mortgage application is typically made around the time the sales
contract is signed, said Michael Fratantoni, vice president of
research and economics at the Mortgage Bankers Association. A
jump in  mortgage rates , spurred by expectations that the  Federal
Reserve  will reduce its stimulus program, has sparked concern
that housing demand will weaken as buying costs increase.  “This short-term pause, caused by increasing mortgage
rates, that wouldn’t be unexpected,” Fratantoni said during a
call with reporters. “Our expectation is that the housing
recovery is still in pretty good shape.”  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage climbed this
week to 4.51 percent, the highest in almost two years, according
to a statement today from McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac . It
was at a near-record low of 3.35 percent in early May.  Share Rally  Homebuilder shares, which have fallen 13 percent from a May
high, rallied today after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that
a policy effort to keep  interest rates  low “for the foreseeable
future” is needed. The 11-member Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding  index  gained 7.1 percent, the
biggest one-day jump since October 2011.  The mortgage-bankers survey captures about 20 percent of
the new-home sales market, with greater participation with
lenders affiliated with larger builders. It isn’t adjusted for
seasonal patterns, which may have affected the June decline
because February through May are historically the strongest
months for new-home contract signings, Fratantoni said.  The group’s broader mortgage applications  gauge  has fallen
20 percent in the past four weeks, pulled down by a plunge in
refinancing. The  purchase  measure, which has slumped 7.1 percent
from early June, is more closely correlated to existing-home
sales since those are a much bigger part of the market,
according to the bankers association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  