-- Loose Lips Sink Euro Bond Markets in Crisis: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-07-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/loose-lips-sink-euro-bond-markets-in-crisis-cutting-research.html
Loose lips can cost  Europe ’s bond
markets.  A European Central Bank  paper  released last week used
25,000 news media releases between January 2009 and October 2011
to investigate how much political communications affected
sovereign bond yields during the region’s fiscal crisis.  The ECB study focused on public pronouncements on fiscal
policy and state finances by officials. It found in the short
term that certain types of commentary had a quantifiable effect
on the spread between the bond yields of  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal over German bunds. The impact was biggest for Greece.  Policy makers at the regional level communicated more
positively on average by using words such as “implement.” For
those at the national level, the most-used word was “fail.”  The paper found that “at several points during the crisis,
certain types of political communication may have added
uncertainty rather than certainty to market perceptions,” said
economists Marion Salines and Gabriel Glockler of the ECB, along
with Thomas Gade of the Danish central bank and the Bundesbank’s
Steffen Strodthoff.  “Unconstructive and inconsistent communications can have
real and tangible effects on countries, their financing
conditions and by extension on their populations, as well as on
the cohesion of the euro area,” they said.  The research also found that the potential for confusing
communication is “structurally higher” in the euro region
because central bank bailouts are harder in the bloc; there are
17 national discourses, governments and policies; and because of
the complexity of regional policy making.  “The absence of clearly defined centers of political
authority (e.g. there is no ‘euro area treasury secretary’)
leads to a dispersion of the focus of market attention and
concomitantly more ‘noise’ in political communication,” they
said in the report.  Communications could be made more effective although
“under no circumstances should the open political discourse in
Europe’s liberal democracies be subordinated to the ostensible
necessities of sovereign debt markets,” the report concluded.  * * *  The chance that the  Federal Reserve  will send long-term
 interest rates  surging when it pulls back stimulus is less than
in the past because of its improved communications, according
the Fed Bank of  Cleveland .  With some investors concerned that long-term interest rates
may jump more than is justified when monetary policy is
tightened, economist Pedro Amaral looked over the past three
decades at periods when the Fed’s  benchmark  began to rise: April
1983, April 1987, February 1994, July 1999 and July 2004.  He found that markets were most likely to be roiled when
they were surprised by policy actions or economic developments.
That’s what happened in 1994, when yields on 10-year Treasury
bonds increased over 200 basis points in a year.  By contrast, in 1987 and 2004 the Fed’s benchmark rose the
same as or even more than in 1994 with less adverse consequences
for bond markets, Amaral said. The difference may be that
forecasters better predicted the behavior of Treasury notes and
bills in 2004 than they did a decade earlier, he said.  “While in the 2004 episode forecasting errors were
relatively small and stable, in the shorter 1994 episode this
was not the case,” Amaral wrote. “Forecasting errors were
increasing and ended up being relatively large, as yields
consistently surprised on the upside.”  When the Fed comes to pull back this time, its use of
communications could help “avoid credit market turbulence” by
ensuring markets aren’t surprised by the Fed’s actions, he said.
The Fed has set inflation and unemployment parameters to govern
shifts in its benchmark rate, allowing investors to better form
expectations of future rates. It also produces more economic
forecasts to help align the market and the  Federal Open Market
Committee .  Still, being transparent is easier said than done, as the
recent rise in long-term rates shows, Amaral said. The episode
began after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that the
central bank may start winding down its quantitative easing
later this year.  “This is testimony to the high degree of uncertainty
surrounding these expectations,” said Amaral. “The hope is
that such uncertainty is coming mostly from the inherent
randomness associated with future economic activity and that the
committee is actually helping to reduce it with its new tools
and recent actions.”  * * *  Emerging markets are set to become bigger players in the
international investment scene after having been the main
recipient of foreign investment.  In a July 3 report, HSBC Holdings Plc economist Madhur Jha
said that even given the recent wobble in  developing economies ,
they will still dominate the world over the next four decades
and their success will lead to greater exports of capital.  Outward investment by  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China  alone
could double by around $1.2 trillion over the next decade, her
estimates show. China may account for about half that jump.  Another reason to bet on such a trend is that since these
economies run current account surpluses,  emerging markets  will
look for greater returns on the proceeds than the traditional
U.S. Treasury notes.  Manufacturing, mining and trade-related services currently
dominate the outward spending of China and Brazil, Jha said.
India’s is biased toward financial services, reflecting its
strength as a services hub.  * * *  A surge in the status of the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  as a location for economic research following World
War II may be tied to its embrace of Jewish academics.  In a  paper  released last month, E. Roy Weintraub of  Duke
University  noted that the Cambridge, Massachusetts university
emerged from “nowhere” in the 1930s to become one of the three
or four most important sites for economic research by the middle
of the 1950s.  A reason is that after World War II, MIT welcomed Jewish
economists more than any other elite rival, such as future Nobel
laureates  Paul Samuelson  and  Robert Solow , said Weintraub. He
noted that through last year, 29 of the first 68  Nobel laureates 
in economics were Jewish.  Other MIT graduates and professors to win the highest prize
in economics include  Paul Krugman  and  Peter Diamond . Former Bank
of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  also taught there.  “The department and university were remarkably open to the
hiring of Jewish faculty at a time when such hiring was just
beginning to be possible at Ivy League universities,” wrote
Weintraub. “Any history of MIT’s emergence among economics
departments that left out any mention of its unique openness to
hiring Jewish faculty in the first post-war decade would be”
impoverished.  * * *  The effect of government budget cuts can be twice as large
in crisis times, according to  Portugal ’s central bank.  A July 2  working paper  reviewed fiscal multipliers, which
shows how much an economy changes when government budgets shift.
It found the multiplier can be two in a period of turmoil, when
governments are consolidating their spending. That is almost
twice the 1.2 of normal times.  “In general, fiscal instruments that generate stronger
downward inflationary pressures, such as those mostly depressing
aggregate demand vis-a-vis aggregate supply, have their short-run multipliers further magnified in crisis times,” the Bank of
Portugal paper said.  * * *  Negative political campaigns force men to the ballot boxes,
while women respond more to positive messages.  So says a  study  by Vincenzo Galasso of the University della
Svizzera Italiana and Tommaso Nannicini of the University of
Bocconi. It focused on 2011 municipal elections in Milan and
eligible voters were split into three groups. Two of them were
exposed to the incumbents advertising but to different campaigns
from the opponent with either a positive or negative tone. A
control group received no information.  While the male turnout increased amid negative advertising,
women voted more for the opponent when exposed to the positive
campaigns. The results of the study published by the London-based Centre for Economic Policy Research suggested politicians
take gender into account when deciding communication strategies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  