-- Tories Give Cameron Red Lines for 2015 Coalition Talks
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-07-11T15:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/tories-give-cameron-red-lines-for-2015-coalition-talks.html
Conservative lawmakers have set out
red lines to  David Cameron  that make it less likely he’ll be
able to repeat his current coalition deal with the  Liberal
Democrats , according to a person involved in the talks.  As well as a referendum on membership of the European
Union, Tory members of Parliament are demanding a rejection of
the “mansion tax” on the most expensive homes and a pledge to
retain the Trident nuclear deterrent in any deal after the 2015
election. Both demands run counter to key Liberal Democrat
policies.  Cameron didn’t consult his lawmakers after the last
election in 2010 until he’d agreed on a framework for a
coalition government with Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg .
According to one engaged in the discussions, who asked not to be
named because they are private, rank-and-file Tories have agreed
that this was a mistake and are insisting they’re involved next
time.  “Some of them don’t trust Cameron as their leader,” Tim Bale, professor of politics at Queen Mary University of  London ,
said in a telephone interview today. “They felt rightly or
wrongly that the coalition deal was not as good as it could have
been and perhaps more importantly they were not consulted --
they were very upset by that.”  The Tory lawmakers have highlighted retention of the
submarine-based Trident nuclear-weapons system as one of the
policies on which they’re not prepared to budge as the Liberal
Democrats prepare to publish a review of the deterrent, which
may call for the program to be scaled back.  Mothball Plan  The Liberal Democrats have been examining alternatives to
Trident in preparation for the 2015 election manifesto. The
party may propose mothballing two of the four ships that carry
the missiles, ending the U.K.’s ability to keep nuclear weapons
at sea at all times, a person familiar with the policy said last
week.  By giving Cameron a list of their demands, the Tory
lawmakers are emphasizing their lack of confidence that Cameron
can deliver a parliamentary majority in 2015 as he trails the
opposition  Labour Party  in opinion polls. The coalition talks of
2010 lasted five days, with the Liberal Democrats talking to
both the Conservatives and Labour.  Asked on May 22 if he would engage in pre-election talks
with Labour leader  Ed Miliband , Clegg said he would instead
spell out his party’s own red lines for joining a future
coalition with either main party.  He declined to give specifics, though he said a mansion tax
was likely to be in the Liberal Democrats’ election manifesto.  ‘Much Harder’  “The process of coalition formation in 2010 was remarkably
painless,”  Philip Cowley , professor of politics at Nottingham
University and author of “The General Election of 2010,” said
in an interview. “Next time, it will be much harder. These Tory
red lines appear to have been designed at least partly to stop a
Liberal Democrat coalition happening again.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who ran the
Tories’ 2010 election campaign and was one of the senior
Conservatives who conducted negotiations with the Liberal
Democrats, said today that now is not the time to highlight
differences between the two parties.  “There are some who argue -- and I speak for the
Conservatives in the coalition -- that we should now be setting
out all the things that we want to do as a Conservative
government and spell out all the things we can’t do because of
the presence of the Liberal Democrats and the coalition, and
there are some of my colleagues who think the time to do that
has come now,” Osborne told journalists at a parliamentary
lunch.  “I actually disagree. I think that of course there will be
a moment where we will have to spell out what a Conservative
government would achieve, but I’m not a chancellor, and I don’t
want us to be a government, who talk about the things we can’t
do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  