-- Osborne Accepts Call to Stop Pre-Briefing on U.K. Budget
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-07-11T10:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/osborne-accepts-call-to-stop-pre-briefing-on-u-k-budget.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne accepted a recommendation that the Treasury
should ban the pre-briefing of details from the annual budget
and end-of-year statement following a review.  A report by the Treasury’s permanent secretary, Nick Macpherson, said the appearance of details of the March 2013
budget on a picture of the  London  Evening Standard’s front page
posted on Twitter before they had been announced to lawmakers by
Osborne was the result of a loss of control over the timing of
publication by the department.  “I recommend that the Treasury introduces a ban on the
pre-release of the core of the budget (and autumn statement),”
Macpherson said in the report published in London today. “That
is: the economic and fiscal projections, the fiscal judgment and
individual tax rates, reliefs and allowances.” Osborne told a
panel of lawmakers today he accepts the proposal “in full.”  The Standard has traditionally been briefed on the content
of the budget in order to fit in with print deadlines for its
afternoon edition, on the condition that it only publishes after
the chancellor has given details of the budget to the House of
Commons.  “On this occasion the arrangements were not effective in
ensuring that information was not released ahead of the
chancellor’s speech,” Macpherson said. “The Evening Standard,
having received prior information as to the content of the
budget, prepared its edition. Its usual practice is to publish
its front page electronically via Twitter ahead of physical
copies being available in the afternoon. It appears that due to
error this electronic publication was not delayed and so went
into the public domain before the chancellor’s speech.”  Budget details released early included growth forecasts,
details of fuel and alcohol duties and changes to income tax and
public-sector pay.  Osborne told Parliament’s Treasury Committee today the ban
is intended to avoid “a repeat of what happened this year, for
which I have apologized.”  Pre-releasing budget details is “not sensible” and that’s
why the government “has gone for the belt-and-braces approach
of this ban,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  