-- Osborne Says Help-to-Buy Won’t Create U.K. Housing Bubble
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-07-11T13:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/osborne-says-help-to-buy-plan-won-t-create-u-k-housing-bubble.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne defended his program to boost home ownership,
rejecting concerns that it may create a  house-price bubble .  “It’s a three-year scheme,” Osborne told Parliament’s
Treasury Committee in  London  today. “I don’t want to create
uncertainty that it might suddenly end early. It’s hard to see
given the current financial climate that it would fulfil the
fears that the committee has expressed.”  Osborne introduced the Help to Buy program in March in an
effort to revive the U.K. economy by lifting people onto the
housing ladder and spurring homebuilding. The initiative has
drawn a warning from the International Monetary Fund for its
potential to stoke home prices and been described as “moronic”
by a Societe Generale SA analyst for encouraging Britons to add
to already high debt levels. Recent reports show the housing
market is reviving, with both demand and prices increasing.  Bank of  England  policy maker David Miles said today he
doesn’t expect the government measures will prompt banks to
revive the “crazy” mortgage offers they had before the
financial crisis.  “I find it very hard to believe that the Help-to-Buy
scheme might mean that lenders might respond by offering 100
percent loan-to-value ratio mortgages to people who had no proof
of their income at teaser rates,” he said. “It doesn’t make
much sense to me.”  Mortgage Guarantees  The program is designed to help people who lack enough cash
for a deposit, with the government lending 20 percent, interest
free, of the value of a newly built home. It means buyers with a
down payment of as little as 5 percent can buy a property.
Mortgage guarantees meant to spur 130 billion pounds ($197
billion) of lending will extend to all properties next year.
Osborne said details of the guarantee program will be announced
in the next two weeks.  “You don’t want  house-price bubbles ,” Osborne said. “We
want it to be a scheme that works and provides help to those who
can’t access higher value mortgages.”  The optimum is for house prices to increase in line with
long-term earnings, as forecast by the  Office for Budget
Responsibility , he said.  Osborne reiterated that he intends the plan to end after
three years, and said the Bank of England’s Financial Policy
Committee would have to approve any extension.  “This is a time-limited scheme, it is not something we
should see as a permanent feature of our financial landscape,”
he said.  Osborne said Mervyn King, whose term as Bank of England
governor ended last month, raised no objections to the plan and
supported efforts to get credit flowing again. “If he had said
‘I strongly object to this scheme,’ that probably would have
killed it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  