-- House GOP Offers Housing Bill Without Government Guarantee
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-07-11T17:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/house-gop-offers-housing-bill-without-u-s-government-guarantee.html
House Financial Services Committee
Chairman Jeb Hensarling introduced a housing finance
reorganization bill today that would liquidate U.S.-owned
mortgage financiers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and limit
government mortgage guarantees.  The proposed legislation, seen as a Republican
counterproposal to a bipartisan bill unveiled June 26 in the
Senate, is unlikely to gain support in the Democratic-led Senate
and has yet to attract broad support among House Republicans.  Hensarling, a Republican from  Texas , proposes to eliminate
the two government-sponsored enterprises within five years and
replace them with a securitization platform. Unlike the Senate
housing bill, the House Republican measure wouldn’t include any
government guarantee for mortgages securitized through the
platform, even in a crisis. It would guarantee only loans
insured by the Federal Housing Administration and similar
agencies.  “The American people want a housing policy that is focused
on taxpayers, focused on homeowners -- existing and would-be,”
Hensarling said at a briefing. “As much as we all respect those
who build our homes and sell our homes we will not have a policy
that is principally designed for the housing industry.”  The emphasis on near-complete privatization of the mortgage
market places Hensarling at odds with Senate colleagues who
introduced a bill last month allowing for some government
assistance in a crisis. The House bill also faces an uphill
fight in Hensarling’s own committee where Democrats and some
Republicans say a government role is needed to sustain a the
popular 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage.  “It is difficult to imagine how this legislation can gain
traction because it lacks a government guarantee,” Isaac Boltansky, an analyst with Compass Point Research & Trading LLC
in  Washington , said in an e-mail. “We believe that the House
GSE reform legislation starts at a distinct disadvantage” to
the Senate bill.  ‘Worst Practices’  Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a  New York  Democrat who
sits on Hensarling’s committee, said in an e-mail that the bill
would “entrench some of the worst practices of the housing
bubble by handing over the mortgage-backed securities market to
the same institutions that caused the housing crisis in the
first place.”  Rising mortgage rates as the economy recovers from the 2008
credit crisis may diminish support for the bill, said Jaret Seiberg, a senior policy analyst at Washington Research Group, a
unit of Guggenheim Securities LLC.  “It’s an interesting policy debate to have over what
homeowners’ rates should be but that’s very different from
completely pulling back government support and experimenting
with whether the market can stand on its own feet,” Seiberg
said.  Securitization Platform  The House Republican bill would replace  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
Freddie Mac with a National Mortgage Market Utility to operate
as a voluntary securitization platform for loan originators,
aggregators, security issuers and investors. The utility would
be prohibited from originating, servicing or guaranteeing any
mortgage or mortgage-backed security.  Hensarling’s bill also would overhaul the FHA, focusing it
on first-time borrowers and limiting its loans to 115 percent of
an area’s median home price. The measure also would increase the
entity’s down payment requirement for non-first-time buyers to 5
percent from 3.5 percent.  The legislation would repeal the Dodd-Frank Act’s risk-retention requirement and delay Basel III mortgage provisions
for two years for community banks. It also would exempt asset-backed securities from the Volcker Rule’s restrictions on banks’
investments in covered funds.  Hensarling said he plans to hold a hearing on his bill July
18 and move it out of his committee by the end of the month.  Senate Bill  The Senate bill would would replace Fannie Mae and  Freddie
Mac (FMCC)  with a government reinsurer and force banks to hold capital
of 10 percent of the principal of the underlying securities to
cover any first loss of the loans.  It would also allow the new government entity to cover a
greater share of the losses in an “unusual and exigent
circumstance” that threatens mortgage-credit availability and
the housing-finance system, according to the bill. The House
bill provides no such crisis assistance.  Hensarling’s bill is cosponsored by Representatives Randy Neugebauer of Texas, Scott Garrett of New Jersey and Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, all Republicans. No Democrats
cosponsored the measure.  Washington-based Fannie Mae and McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac package mortgages into securities on which they
guarantee 100 percent payment of principal and interest. The
companies have begun posting record profits after drawing a
total of $187.5 billion in aid from taxpayers to stay afloat
since 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  