-- House-Passed Farm Bill Deemed Flawed by Senate Democrats
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-07-12T04:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/house-passes-republican-farm-policy-bill-without-food-stamp-aid.html
A five-year farm-policy bill  House
Republicans  passed and sent to the  U.S. Senate  now faces
opposition among the Democrats needed to craft the final law,
making the party-line vote a potentially hollow victory.  The House plan was approved yesterday 216-208 without
Democratic support. The Republican measure severing food stamps
from farm programs that were linked for decades makes the bill
“extremely flawed,” said Senator  Debbie Stabenow , chairwoman
of the Senate Agriculture Committee and the likely leader of
that chamber’s negotiating team.  The bill “is not a real farm bill and is an insult to
rural America,” the Michigan Democrat said in a statement.
President  Barack Obama ’s administration has threatened a veto of
the plan were Congress to pass the scaled-back version, which
was debated three weeks after the House rejected a more
expensive measure.  Farm legislation, which benefit crop-buyers such as  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and insurers including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
has been working through Congress for almost two years. The
Senate on June 10 passed S. 954, a plan that would cost $955
billion over a decade. Current law begins to expire Sept. 30.  The House plan’s 10-year cost is $196 billion, according to
the  Congressional Budget Office , with the lower price reflecting
elimination of food stamps, the bulk of U.S. Department of
Agriculture spending authorized by the bill.  Food Stamps  House action has been stymied largely by disagreements on
the program. The legislation rejected last month, H.R. 1947,
would cut spending on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program, responsible for more than three-quarters of the bill’s
costs, by about 2.5 percent, roughly $2 billion a year.
Democrats who balked at the reductions joined Republicans
objecting to the plan’s cost to scuttle the bill. Republican
leaders revived the measure in scaled-back form.  The stripped-down plan gained support from Republicans
willing to deal with food stamps later. “It’s not a secret I am
not a fan of the farm bill,” said Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican who opposed the June version and
supported the bill yesterday. “I’ve learned around here that
you rarely get to vote for success but you can vote for
progress.”  Milk Prices  The revised version also removed language that effectively
would replace current law with policies set in 1938 and 1949
when the law expired. The threat of reviving those old laws has
helped prod Congress to modernize farm-subsidy and farm-loan
programs, since the laws set terms that could double the
wholesale price of milk starting next year. The House plan would
do away with that leverage, said Representative Michael Conaway,
a Texas Republican.  Beyond that, the bill is basically the same as the previous
farm-policy measure. It would end direct payments to U.S.
farmers and expand a crop insurance-based safety net.  Farm-policy legislation without food stamps has been
opposed by groups, including the  American Farm Bureau
Federation , the largest U.S. farmer organization. Last week,
more than 530 groups signed a letter of opposition to the plan.
Other organizations, including the Texas Farm Bureau, the
National Cotton Council of America and the National Pork
Producers Council, supported it.  Senator Michael Bennet, a Colorado Democrat, said the plan
fell short both for farmers and food-stamp recipients, while
Senator Heidi Heitkamp, a Democrat from  North Dakota , said
omitting food stamps to build House Republican support harms its
chances of passing Congress.  Urban-Rural Coalition  “Authorizing nutrition policies in the farm bill is
necessary to maintaining the critical urban-rural coalition that
has been relied upon to pass farm bills for the past four
decades,” Heitkamp said in a statement. “Breaking this
coalition and severing ties between farm and table is a mistake
that weakens the chances” of any plan becoming law, she said.  Despite her misgivings, Stabenow said she was willing to
work with House lawmakers on their plan as part of a final law.
While sidestepping  food stamps  for the moment, some small-government advocacy groups that have called for changing the
program said they don’t like the possibility that a later House-Senate conference committee could go its own way.  “We highly suspect that this whole process is a ‘rope-a-dope’ exercise” of “splitting up the farm bill only as a means
to get to conference with the Senate where a bicameral back-room
deal will reassemble the commodity and food stamp titles,
leaving us back where we started,” one of those groups, the
Club for Growth, said in a statement.  Still, simple approval of a plan that has struggled to get
anywhere in the House was seen as a victory by some lawmakers.
“Thank God we can do something,” said Tom Rooney, a Florida
Republican, said as he walked off the House floor.  The House legislation is H.R. 2642.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  