-- Houston Toll Debt Sells Amid Biggest Loss Since ’94: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-07-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/houston-toll-debt-sells-amid-biggest-loss-since-94-muni-credit.html
Grand Parkway Transportation Corp.,
which is building part of a 184-mile toll road encircling
Houston, is readying the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market’s
biggest borrowing in more than a year even as the yield penalty
on some  Texas  highway bonds has risen 28 percent since January.  The state agency’s $2.86 billion sale next week, to pay for
sections of an outer loop serving the fourth-most-populous U.S.
city, may meet resistance from investors already suffering from
a 3.5 percent decline for local securities in 2013, the most
since 1994, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Texas has pledged to support all but $200 million of the
Grand Parkway deal if revenue is insufficient to repay the debt,
according to sale documents.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the larger
portion of the debt AA, third-highest, while grading the rest
six steps lower. The yield penalty on state-supported AA bonds
issued by the North Texas Tollway Authority to construct a toll
road serving the Dallas-Fort Worth area rose to 2.3 percentage
points on July 9, higher than the 1.8 percentage-point penalty
at the start of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Investors may also seek wider spreads on the Grand Parkway
sale, said  Peter Hayes , who manages $114 billion as head of
munis at New York-based BlackRock Inc.  “If they try to get too aggressive and price it as a
double-A type of credit, they might be disappointed in the
demand,” he said in a telephone interview. “A deal this size,
with the market tone having been somewhat shaky over the last
couple of months, means it’s going to have to be priced to go.”  Yield Jump  Interest rates spiked last month after the  Federal Reserve 
said it plans to reduce bond purchases as the economy improves.
Yields on benchmark 10-year munis jumped to  2.96 percent  June
25, the highest since April 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Investors pulled $4.5 billion from U.S. muni mutual funds
in the week through June 26, the most since Lipper US Fund Flows
began tracking the data in 1992.  The Grand Parkway deal is the largest municipal-bond
offering since Michigan Finance Authority sold $2.9 billion of
revenue debt in June 2012 to repay federal unemployment-benefit
loans, Bloomberg data show. Transportation debt has lost about
3.6 percent this year and has trailed the muni market every year
since 2009, the longest losing streak since at least 1989, when
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data begins.  Taxable Debt  Grand Parkway’s sale includes several types of securities.
Among them are taxable bonds, short-term debt and, possibly,
capital-appreciation debt whose principal and interest aren’t
paid until maturity, according to Greg Carey, chairman of New
York-based  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.’s public-sector and
infrastructure group. The longest-maturity borrowing would be
2053, said Carey, whose firm is leading the sale.  In addition to insurance companies that normally buy munis,
the wide menu of securities should help attract crossover buyers
who typically purchase corporate or U.S. bonds, Carey said in a
telephone interview.  “If we were able to bring this to market three months ago,
we would have gotten a better price,” Carey said. “But the
credit fundamentals are strong. This is a very sound, well put-together structured transaction that will be attractive to many
pockets of the market.”  Carey has marketed the sale to investors in Houston and
plans additional meetings this week in  Chicago , Boston and  New
York , he said.  Borrowing Boost  While this year’s issuance of long-term, fixed-rate munis
totaled  $168 billion  through July 5, the least since 2011,
states and localities plan to increase borrowing within the next
month. Issuers from  Washington  to  Maryland  are set to borrow
 $15.4 billion  of long-term, fixed-rate debt in the next 30 days,
compared with the one-year average of $9.2 billion, Bloomberg
data show.  At the same time, mutual funds and other institutions had
 $1.1 billion  of local debt for sale July 9, almost double the
one-year average of $577 million, Bloomberg data show.  The Grand Parkway sale includes $468 million of taxable
debt and $947 million of debt subject to a mandatory tender on
April 1 that the issuer will need to refinance to avoid paying a
higher  interest rate , according to bond documents and Carey.  Texas’s Department of Transportation anticipates repaying
the tender bonds with a U.S. loan under the Transportation
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act. Such federal credits
have been used for North Texas Tollway projects. New York State
is also seeking to borrow through the program to help build a
new Tappan Zee Bridge across the  Hudson River .  February Tolls  Proceeds of the Grand Parkway deal will finance
construction on 55 miles (89 kilometers) of four-lane roadway in
Harris and Montgomery counties in the northwestern Houston area.
The first segment will open at year-end and begin charging tolls
in February. The second stretch will open by January 2016, with
charges to start the following month, according to bond
documents.  The planned roadway is less than a mile south of a new
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  campus that’s set to open in Montgomery County
in early 2014 with a capacity of 10,000 employees by 2015,
Patrick McGinn, a spokesman, said by e-mail. Based in Irving,
Texas, ExxonMobil is the world’s largest publicly traded oil and
gas company.  The state will support the deal by providing an advance
called a toll-equity loan to Grand Parkway of up to $9.6 billion
over the life of the debt to repay the bonds if toll revenue
falls short. The money will come from the State Highway Fund,
which includes federal cash, state gasoline taxes and motor-vehicle fees, according to sale documents.  Under Construction  Yields on portions of the Grand Parkway debt will need to
compensate investors because the roadways are still under
construction and any revenue growth will be in the future, said
John Flahive, who helps manage $22 billion of munis at BNY
Mellon Wealth Management in  Boston .  “Whenever there’s a ramp-up and when there’s construction
risk, and especially a deal of this size, you would suspect that
they’re going to have to price it accordingly,” Flahive said.  The Houston region’s population is expected to climb to 6.4
million by 2015 and 9.6 million by 2035, according to sale
documents. Its total population has increased by an average
annual rate of 2.5 percent from 1970 to 2010.  Total toll revenue from the 55-mile Grand Parkway stretch
will be an estimated $7.3 million in the fiscal year ending Aug.
31, 2014. That’s projected to grow to $943 million by 2054,
according to bond documents.  Two-Year High  At  4.36 percent , yields on benchmark 30-year munis are the
highest in two years, Bloomberg data show. That compares with
3.68 percent for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the interest rates, which shows relative
value, is about  118 percent , compared with a five-year average
of about 112 percent, Bloomberg data show. The higher the
figure, the cheaper tax-exempt debt is against federal
securities.  -- Editors: William Glasgall, Mark Schoifet  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  