-- Pemex Contracts Draw Little Interest Before Possible Energy Bill
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-11T20:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/pemex-contracts-draw-little-interest-before-possible-energy-bill.html
Spain’s Repsol SA and  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  were among companies that withdrew
bids to develop blocks at Petroleos Mexicanos’s Chicontepec
field, a sign of waning exploration interest before a possible
reform of Mexico’s energy industry.  Three of the six blocks auctioned by Pemex at Chicontepec,
which is estimated to contain 40 percent of Mexico’s hydrocarbon
reserves, didn’t receive any bids from 16 authorized groups.
 Halliburton Co. (HAL)  won the Humapa block and Petrolite de Mexico SA
was awarded the Soledad block contract, Pemex said today in a
broadcast on its website. No companies bid on Pitepec, which had
the most reserves among the blocks.  “It was striking, and not in a good way, that three of the
six blocks had no bidders,”  George Baker , a Houston-based
energy consultant, said in a telephone interview.  Mexico is on the cusp of opening its energy industry to
outside investment in hopes of increasing crude production after
eight years of declining output, Pemex Board Member Hector Moreira said yesterday at the Bloomberg Mexico Conference in New
York. A bill that would end the government’s monopoly on
production is expected to be presented to congress when regular
sessions resume by September, Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto told Bloomberg last month.  Repsol, based in Madrid,  Alfa SAB de CV (ALFAA) , based in San Pedro
Garza Garcia, Mexico, and Halliburton and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) ,
both Houston-based, withdrew bids for the Amititlan, Miahuapan
and Pitepec blocks, which were voided on a lack of offers.
Pemex, which said it planned a new tender for Amititlan on July
15, canceled the date before the auction ended.  ‘Better Options’  Bidding interest wasn’t undermined by expectations of an
energy reform,  Carlos Morales , who heads exploration and
production for Pemex, said in a phone interview from Poza Rica,
Mexico.  “If a reform results in the possibility of offering better
options for the contracts, we have said that this contract model
will migrate to a new one,” Morales said.  The support of the top three political parties in the Pact
for Mexico should ensure the energy bill is approved by Congress
before the end of the year, Pena Nieto has said. Pemex funds
about a third of the federal budget and is Latin America’s
largest crude producer.  “We need far more investment, we need capacity in
production and we need technology,” Moreira said yesterday.
“We need to transform the energy sector in a very deep way. I
think now is the time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  