-- Pennsylvania AG Kane Won’t Defend State Gay-Marriage Ban
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-11T19:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/pennsylvania-attorney-general-won-t-defend-gay-marriage-ban.html
Pennsylvania Attorney General
Kathleen Kane said she won’t defend a court challenge to the
state’s same-sex marriage ban, which she called “wholly
unconstitutional.”  “Denying equality is the very definition of
discrimination,” Kane, a Democrat, said today at a press
conference in Philadelphia. “It’s now the time here in
Pennsylvania to end another wave of discrimination.”  Twenty-three plaintiffs backed by the  American Civil
Liberties Union  sued Republican Governor Thomas Corbett in
federal court July 9 over a  state  law that defines marriage as a
union between a man and a woman. Some of those gathered to hear
Kane’s announcement held pictures of the plaintiffs.  Advocates for same-sex marriage are seeking to increase the
number of states where it’s legal after the U.S. Supreme Court
last month struck down the Defense of Marriage Act, or DOMA,
which denied federal benefits to married gay couples. Thirteen
states and the  District of Columbia  allow same-sex marriage.  “I cannot ethically defend the constitutionality of
Pennsylvania’s version of DOMA,” Kane, 47, said today.
Pennsylvania’s Office of General Counsel will take the case on
the state’s behalf, she said. “The governor is going to be OK.
He has a team of lawyers.”  ‘Constitutional Duty’  General Counsel James D. Schultz said in a statement that
his office hasn’t received formal notice of Kane’s decision and
is still reviewing the lawsuit, which also names as defendants
Kane in her capacity as attorney general and  Michael Wolf , the
secretary of Pennsylvania’s Department of Health.  “We are surprised that the attorney general, contrary to
her constitutional duty under the Commonwealth Attorneys Act,
has decided not to defend a Pennsylvania statute lawfully
enacted by the General Assembly, merely because of her personal
beliefs,” Schultz said.  Kane was elected last year with 3.1 million votes, the most
of any candidate on the state ballot. During the campaign, she
promised to review how the attorney general’s office handled the
Jerry Sandusky sex-abuse investigation, which began in early
2009, when Corbett, 64, held the post. He was elected governor
in 2010.  Special Prosecutor  Sandusky, a former assistant football coach at  Pennsylvania
State University , was found guilty in June 2012 of 45 counts of
abusing boys over a 15-year period and sentenced to 30 years in
prison. In February, Kane appointed a special prosecutor to
handle the Sandusky review.  In a poll released June 6 by the Quinnipiac University
Polling Institute, 58 percent of voters said Corbett didn’t do
enough as attorney general to investigate the Sandusky case.  Kane this year also rejected a deal negotiated by Corbett
to hand over management of the state’s $3.48 billion lottery to
a U.K. company. She said the agreement with Camelot Group Plc
violated the state’s constitution because it lacked the required
legislative approval.  “We are pleased that the attorney general recognizes what
we have long known -- that Pennsylvania’s ban on marriage for
same-sex couples is indefensible,” Reggie Shuford, executive
director of the ACLU of Pennsylvania, said in a statement.  Mirrors Obama  Her move mirrors the decision by President  Barack Obama  to
seek to overturn the federal Defense of Marriage Act before the
U.S. Supreme Court, and California Attorney General  Kamala Harris ’s opposition to her state’s ban on gay marriage.  The Obama administration announced in February 2011 that it
would no longer oppose court challenges to DOMA after deciding
that the law was unconstitutional.  Kane echoed that sentiment today, saying she believed
Pennsylvania’s law to be “wholly unconstitutional” and not
representative of the will of the people. Kane said that while
it’s her job to defend the constitutionality of Pennsylvania’s
laws, she also serves as a voice for all residents of the state.  Mark Aronchick, an attorney for the plaintiffs with Hangley
Aronchick Segal Pudlin & Schiller, called the announcement
“earth-shaking.” Lawyers are planning to re-evaluate the suit
in light of her decision, Aronchick said.  Kane said her decision today won’t affect her relationship
with Corbett.  “We’re both professionals,” she said.  The case is Whitewood v. Corbett, 13-cv-01861, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of  Pennsylvania  (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  