-- Peru Likely to Keep 4.25% Rate as Growth Withstands Metals Slump
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-07-11T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/peru-likely-to-keep-4-25-rate-as-growth-withstands-metals-slump.html
Peru ’s central bank probably will
keep borrowing costs unchanged today for a 26th straight month
amid stable growth and government steps to counter a slump in
metal prices.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
will maintain the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, according to
all 13 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg, matching  Malaysia  for
the longest pause in  developing countries . The decision will be
announced at about 6 p.m. Lima time.  South America ’s sixth-largest economy expanded 7.7 percent
in April, the fastest pace in two years, led by the construction
and retail industries. The  Finance Ministry  has also moved to
head off any downturn in growth triggered by a plunge in Chinese
demand for copper and gold, Peru’s top exports, by announcing
measures to bolster business sentiment and private investment.  “Indicators like electricity and cement demand aren’t
displaying any signs of a slowdown, at least through June,”
Guillermo Arbe, the head of research at Scotiabank Peru, said by
phone from  Lima . “Deceleration is more of a risk than
reality.”  Gross domestic product probably expanded 6.5 percent in the
second quarter and growth will remain above 6 percent for the
rest of this year, Velarde told reporters July 1.  China Demand  On a seasonally adjusted basis, the economy expanded 5.4
percent in April, according to the central bank, while inflation
remained within the target range of 2 percent plus or minus 1
percentage point.  Though the annual inflation accelerated to 2.77 percent
last month from 2.46 percent in May, the pace of price gains
will slow to about 2 percent in December even as a weaker sol
increases import costs, Velarde said.  Still, the central bank acknowledged a risk of a more
pronounced deceleration in inflation this year amid slower
Chinese growth in its June 21 quarterly inflation report. China
is Peru’s largest export market after the U.S.  Copper prices are down 16 percent in  New York  this year
while gold has retreated 25 percent. The metals account for half
Peru’s shipments overseas.  Peru reported a $404 million  trade deficit  for May, the
widest gap in at least seven years, the country’s statistics
agency said yesterday. The median estimate of five analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was for a $250 million shortfall.  Rate Horizon  The drop in exports may lead the central bank to ease
monetary policy though the bank will probably prioritize
reductions in  reserve requirements  over interest rate cuts, said
Diego Llona, a bond trader at Banco Santander’s local unit.  “Though April’s growth rate was impressive, we’ll have to
see how the second quarter turned out to confirm or discard the
downward bias in rate policy,” Llona said.  The Lima General stock index has plunged 28 percent this
year in local currency terms, the steepest decline among 94
primary indexes tracked by Bloomberg. The central bank sold
dollars in the foreign exchange market last week for the first
time since May 2012 to stem declines in the sol. The currency
has weakened 8.1 percent this year.  Business sentiment slid in May to its lowest since
September 2011, according to the central bank.  New Directors  To prevent a slowdown in growth, Humala’s administration is
simplifying permitting procedures and making it easier for
businesses to tap  capital markets , Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said June 27.  Though private investment will pick up in the second half
of 2013, this year’s 8.8 percent growth will be below the 14
percent registered in 2012 and 22 percent in 2010, the central
bank said June 21.  After raising reserve requirements five times since May
2012, the central bank set a 20 percent limit on the ratio for
lenders’ sol deposits last month.  Policy makers probably will defer significant changes to
monetary policy until after Congress fills vacant seats on the
central bank’s board, said Cesar Penaranda, the chief economist
at the Lima Chamber of Commerce. Lawmakers are expected to
ratify the appointment of three directors July 17.  “Now that the board knows who the new directors will be,
it’s not going to make any drastic changes such as moving the
benchmark rate before they’ve taken up their posts,” Penaranda
said. “They’ll want to evaluate thoroughly the international
situation and allow the new directors to participate in any
substantive measures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  