-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate as Growth Withstands Metals Slump
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-07-11T23:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/peru-keeps-4-25-rate-as-economic-growth-withstands-metals-slump.html
Peru’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a 26th straight month as domestic demand and
construction fuels growth, offsetting a drop in metal prices.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent, matching the
forecasts of all 13 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  South America ’s sixth-largest economy expanded 7.7 percent
in April, the fastest pace in two years, led by construction and
retailing. The  Finance Ministry  has also moved to head off any
downturn in growth triggered by a drop in Chinese demand for
copper and gold, Peru’s top exports, by announcing measures to
bolster business sentiment and private investment.  “Inflation is forecast to converge to the center of the
target range in the coming months due to food supply conditions
improving, a pace of economic output close to its potential and
inflation expectations anchored in the target range,” policy
makers said in their  statement  posted on the central bank’s
website  Gross domestic product probably expanded 6.5 percent in the
second quarter and growth will remain above 6 percent for the
rest of this year, Velarde told reporters July 1.  China Demand  On a seasonally adjusted basis, the economy expanded 5.4
percent in April, according to the central bank, while inflation
remained within the target band of 2 percent plus or minus 1
percentage point.  Annual inflation accelerated to 2.77 percent last month
from 2.46 percent in May. Still, Velarde forecast the pace of
price gains will slow to about 2 percent in December.  Inflation could further decelerate this year amid slower
Chinese growth, the central bank said in a June 21 report. China
is  Peru ’s largest export market after the U.S.  Copper prices are down 13 percent in  New York  this year
while gold has retreated 24 percent. The metals account for half
Peru’s shipments overseas.  Peru reported a $404 million  trade deficit  for May, the
widest gap in at least seven years, the country’s statistics
agency said yesterday. The median estimate of five analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was for a $250 million shortfall.  “External indicators still show a weak performance, which
is affecting export prices and volumes,” policy makers said in
their statement.  Rate Horizon  The drop in exports may lead the central bank to ease
monetary policy, though the bank will probably prioritize
reductions in  reserve requirements  over interest rate cuts, said
Diego Llona, a bond trader at Banco Santander’s local unit.  “April’s growth rate was impressive, we’ll have to see how
the second quarter turned out to confirm or discard the downward
bias in rate policy,” Llona said.  The Lima General stock index has plunged 27 percent this
year in local currency terms, the steepest decline among 94
primary indexes tracked by Bloomberg. The central bank sold
dollars in the foreign exchange market last week for the first
time since May 2012 to stem declines in the sol. The currency
has weakened 7.9 percent this year.  Business sentiment slid in May to its lowest since
September 2011, according to the central bank.  New Directors  To prevent a slowdown in growth, Humala’s administration is
simplifying permitting procedures and making it easier for
businesses to tap  capital markets , Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said June 27.  Private investment will pick up in the second half of 2013
and grow 8.8 percent this year, compared with 14 percent in
2012, the central bank said June 21.  After raising reserve requirements five times since May
2012, the central bank set a 20 percent limit on the ratio for
lenders’ sol deposits last month.  The bank said it is ready to further relax reserve
requirements, after adjusting rules in May and June to spur
lending in soles.  Policy makers probably will defer significant changes to
monetary policy until after Congress fills vacant seats on the
central bank’s board, said Cesar Penaranda, the chief economist
at the Lima Chamber of Commerce. Lawmakers are expected to
ratify the appointment of three directors July 17.  “They’ll want to evaluate thoroughly the international
situation and allow the new directors to participate in any
substantive measures,” Penaranda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  