-- PGA of Australia Joins U.S., Europe in Banning Anchored Putting
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-11T02:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/pga-of-australia-joins-u-s-europe-in-banning-anchored-putting.html
The PGA of Australia said it will
ban the use of anchored putting strokes at its tournaments
starting in 2016, joining other professional golf circuits.  The U.S.  PGA Tour  last week joined the European Tour in
adopting the new rule banning the technique that has been used
by players to win four of the past seven major championships.  The Melbourne-based PGA of Australia followed suit to avoid
golfers having to compete under varying conditions on different
international tours and to give those using the method time to
adapt, Chief Executive Officer Brian Thorburn said today.  “Throughout this process our greatest priority was to
ensure consistency so that when our professionals, and of course
visiting internationals, play in Australia they will be
competing under the same conditions adopted across all the
world’s top tours,” Thorburn said in an e-mailed statement.  The U.S. Golf Association and Royal & Ancient Golf Club,
the sport’s main lawmaking bodies, said in May that strokes in
which the player’s putter rests against the body to create a
pendulum-like swing would be outlawed from Jan. 1, 2016.  The new rule, known as Rule 14-1b, will not alter current
equipment rules and allows for the continued use of all
conforming clubs, including long-handled and belly putters,
provided they are not anchored to the body.  The use of anchored putting strokes, which first gained
popularity among players on the 50-and-over tour, has increased
at all levels during the past decade. While players including
14-time major champion  Tiger Woods  oppose its use, others
including South Africa’s  Tim Clark  and American Keegan Bradley
are against a ban and have threatened legal action.  Bradley became the first player to use a so-called belly
putter to win one of golf’s four major tournaments in 2011 when
he captured the  PGA Championship . Australia’s  Adam Scott  won the
 Masters Tournament  in April using a putter that he anchored
against his chest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  