-- Philip Caldwell, Ford CEO After Henry Ford II, Dies at 93
-- B y   B i l l   K o e n i g
-- 2013-07-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/philip-caldwell-ford-ceo-after-henry-ford-ii-dies-at-93.html
(Corrects story published July 12 to delete reference to
Ethel Merman in the seventh paragraph.)  Philip Caldwell,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
first chief executive officer who wasn’t a member of the
founder’s family, and who gambled the automaker’s future on the
Taurus sedan in the 1980s, has died. He was 93.  He died July 10 at his home in New Canaan,  Connecticut , his
family said in a statement provided by the company. The cause
was complications of a stroke.  Caldwell followed in the footsteps of more famous
executives. He became president of Ford in 1978 after Henry Ford
II, grandson of founder Henry Ford, fired Lee Iacocca and chose
Caldwell to lead the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker, first
as CEO in 1979 and as chairman the following year. His close
relationship with  Henry Ford  II earned Caldwell the nickname
“The Prince” inside the company, according to a  New York  Times
profile in 1979.  He was “remarkably cool and resolute in a crisis,” wrote
 Paul Ingrassia  and Joseph B. White in their 1994 book,
“Comeback: The Fall and Rise of the American Automobile
Industry.” He “had enormous analytical skills and the
determination to examine any problem from every conceivable
angle,” they wrote.  As president and then CEO, Caldwell presided over a
turnaround. Ford endured almost $3.3 billion of losses during
two U.S.  recessions  from 1980 through 1982, as well as questions
over the design and safety of its Pinto model.  Introducing Taurus  During his rise within the company, Caldwell had impressed
his bosses by helping introduce the popular Fiesta. On his watch
as CEO, Ford invested $3 billion on the aerodynamic Taurus,
which became the best-selling car in the U.S. Caldwell unveiled
the sedan in January 1985, just before he retired and was
replaced as CEO by Donald Petersen. The vehicle went on sale
later that year as a 1986 model.  “Caldwell couldn’t stomach the thought of Petersen getting
credit for the Taurus, a car developed mostly on Caldwell’s
watch,” Ingrassia and White wrote. Ford previewed the car on
Jan. 29, 1985, at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios in  California  with
activities that included a dinner attended by celebrities Danny
Thomas and Linda Carter, according to the book.  Caldwell remained on Ford’s  board  until 1990. Upon the 1987
death of Henry Ford II, Caldwell, on behalf of the board,
pressed 30-year-old William Clay Ford Jr., known as Bill,
whether he wanted to become custodian of his family’s interests
and eventually lead the company that his great-grandfather
started.  Ohio Born  “Whether Bill had thought about it, whether he really
wanted to be a serious player -- that was something we wanted to
know,” Caldwell said in a 2002 interview with Bloomberg Markets
magazine.  Bill Ford  served as CEO from late 2001 until September
2006, when he became executive chairman. In a statement issued
yesterday by the company, he said Caldwell “helped guide the
company through a difficult turnaround in the 1980s and drove
the introductions of ground-breaking products around the globe.
His dedication and relentless passion for quality always will be
hallmarks of his legacy at Ford.”  Philip Caldwell was born on Jan. 27, 1920, in Bourneville,
 Ohio , the youngest of four children of Wilhelmina Hemphill
Caldwell and Robert Clyde Caldwell.  He graduated in 1940 from Muskingum College, now Muskingum
University, in New Concord, Ohio, where he majored in economics
and debated on a championship-winning team. He earned an MBA
from  Harvard Business School  in  Boston  in 1942, served on the
staff of U.S. Admiral Chester Nimitz during World War II and
joined Ford in 1953.  Ford Career  After working jobs in purchasing, engineering and
manufacturing, he was named a manager in Ford’s truck product
planning division in 1960 and general manager of truck
operations in 1968, when he was also elected a vice president.
He was assigned to Ford’s Philco car-radio unit in Philadelphia
and in 1973 became chief of Ford’s  international operations .
Among his achievements was creation of the Fiesta, Ford’s first
small car in  Europe , in 1976.  A reorganization in April 1977 that elevated Caldwell to
vice chairman intensified the feud between Iacocca, who remained
president, and Henry Ford II.  “It was ridiculous that Caldwell, who used to work for me,
was suddenly above me for no apparent reason except malice,”
Iacocca wrote in his  1984 memoir .  Replacing Iacocca  Fourteen months later, in June 1978, Ford named his younger
brother, William Clay Ford Sr., as chairman of the executive
committee. Caldwell became deputy CEO, with Iacocca reporting to
him. The tense arrangement lasted a few weeks, until Iacocca
departed. Caldwell then became president, succeeding Iacocca,
who a few months later took charge at Chrysler Corp.  The problems Caldwell inherited, the Times reported in
November 1978, included the recall of 1.5 million pre-1977 Pinto
subcompact sedans following court decisions ordering the company
to pay damages for gasoline-tank fires caused by rear-end
collisions. That didn’t stop Ford’s new president from talking
up the company’s future.  “As strange as it may sound to you, all the data we have
show that the quality of our products today is better than any
of the other domestic producers,” Caldwell told the Times.  With his wife of almost 68 years, the former  Betsey C.
Clark , Caldwell had three children: Lawrence C. Caldwell of  New
Canaan ; Lucy Caldwell-Stair of Newton,  Massachusetts ; and
Desiree Caldwell Armitage of Concord, Massachusetts.  He is also survived by six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Koenig in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 wkoenig@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  