-- Portuguese Banks Drop on Political Uncertainty: Lisbon Mover
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-07-11T12:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/portuguese-banks-drop-on-political-uncertainty-lisbon-mover.html
Banco Comercial Portugues SA and
Banco BPI SA led Portuguese banks lower as analysts said the
nation’s political crisis will persist, generating uncertainty
about the country’s ability to exit its aid program.  President Anibal Cavaco Silva said last night that early
elections are undesirable and urged the ruling coalition parties
and the main opposition to reach a “national salvation” pact
allowing  Portugal  to complete its aid program, set a date for a
vote and ensure that the country’s debt load will eventually be
sustainable with a new government.  The governing Social Democrat and CDS parties said they had
reached an agreement last week to overcome a rift caused by the
resignation of Foreign Minister Paulo Portas. Cavaco last night
stopped short of approving the government’s proposed reshuffle,
and urged the country’s main political parties to reach a larger
agreement.  “The political crisis in Portugal is far from over,”
economists including Giada Giani at Citigroup Inc. said in a
note to clients. “Despite the efforts of Prime Minister Passos Coelho to recompose the fracture within the government
coalition, the president’s proposal is likely to keep political
uncertainty high in coming weeks.”  ‘Under Pressure’  Banco Comercial, Portugal’s biggest non-state-owned bank by
assets, declined 4.3 percent to 8.9 euro cents as of 1 p.m. in
Lisbon trading. Banco BPI SA, Portugal’s fourth-biggest bank,
dropped 4 percent to 8.8 cents. Both lenders received bailout
funds from the  Portuguese government .  Banco Espirito Santo SA, the nation’s second-biggest non-state-owned bank, decreased 3.8 percent to 60.3 euro cents.
Banif SA which also received state aid, tumbled 10 percent to
5.4 cents.  “The banking sector should be under pressure,” Tiago Anjos, an analyst at Oporto-based BPI, said in a note to
clients. “Even though a potential agreement between PSD, CDS
and PS could improve political stability in the medium term, in
the short term the President’s decision should increase
uncertainty.”  Portas tendered his resignation as foreign-affairs minister
on July 2 in a row over budget policy with the prime minister.
Coelho, whose finance minister, Vitor Gaspar, quit the day
before, refused to accept the resignation, citing Portas’s key
role in the coalition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  