-- Praktiker Seeks Protection From Creditors on Failed Sale
-- B y   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-07-11T14:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/praktiker-drops-as-failed-disposal-may-lead-to-bankruptcy.html
Praktiker AG (PRA) , the German home-improvement chain formerly owned by  Metro AG (MEO) , filed for
insolvency after the sale of a division collapsed, and said it
will focus on restructuring the business.  Units that own the Praktiker and Extra-Bau+Hobby stores and
online outlets applied at Hamburg’s local court for protection
from creditors, the Kirkel-based retailer said today in a
statement. The Max Bahr chain won’t be affected by the
insolvency move, it said.  Praktiker dropped to the lowest price since its November
2005 initial public offering today after saying yesterday that
creditors wouldn’t approve a  debt  reorganization following the
retailer’s failure to sell a stake in a Luxembourg unit. Talks
on the restructuring broke down after credit insurers pulled
support as they lost confidence in management’s ability to turn
Praktiker around, two people familiar with the matter said.  The retailer needed more than 30 million euros ($39.2
million) to avoid insolvency, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks weren’t public.
Private-equity company  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  considered
offering credit to Praktiker before deciding the move wasn’t
viable because the retailer’s creditors declined to give up
their collateral, the people said.  A spokesman for New York-based Apollo declined to comment.
Harald Guenter, a Praktiker spokesman, also declined to comment.  Schlecker Bankruptcy  The filing is the biggest in Germany’s retail industry
since drugstore chain Schlecker went out of business last year,
Ralf Moldenhauer, a Frankfurt-based partner at  Boston Consulting
Group , said by phone.  Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  Chief Executive Officer Ian Cheshire said
last month that he’s looking for acquisitions as the largest
U.K. home-improvement retailer detects “fault lines” in the
European home-renovation market that may lead to consolidation.
Praktiker’s domestic competitors include Hornbach Holding AG and
closely held Toom Baumarkt GmbH and OBI Group Holding SE.  “The whole market for home-improvement retail is very
fragmented, with all the companies suffering from price wars and
overcapacity,” Frank Nikolaus, head of London-based investment
boutique Nikolaus & Co., said in an e-mail. “Praktiker is the
first victim mainly due to its weak  capital structure  and home-grown problems such as ruinous discounting and frequent top
management changes.”  Stock Plunges  Praktiker plunged as much as 72 percent to 10 euro cents
and was trading down 65 percent at 13 cents at 4:47 p.m. in
 Frankfurt . That propelled the stock to an 89 percent  decline 
this year, valuing the company at 14.8 million euros.  Metro, Germany’s biggest retailer, put a 59.5 percent stake
in Praktiker on the market in the 2005 IPO at 14.50 euros a
share and disposed of its remaining holding the following year.
Praktiker’s current shareholders include Donau Invest
Beteiligungs GmbH, with just under 10 percent of the  voting
rights , and Maseltov Ltd. at 9.6 percent, according to its
 website .  Praktiker sold 55.6 million new shares in November in an
effort to shore up funding. The retailer said in June that was
seeking to exit Ukraine, while its Turkish business was in
“orderly” insolvency proceedings. The retailer said yesterday
that proceeds from the failed stake sale in the Batiself unit in
Luxembourg had been “firmly included” its business plan, and
that it now faced excess debt and lacked liquidity.  The first-quarter net loss widened to 127.7 million euros
from 76.4 million euros a year earlier as sales dropped 10
percent. The  workforce  totaled 17,820 people, with German
operations accounting for 5,399 jobs at the Praktiker brand,
5,068 at Max Bahr and 390 at other units. Its businesses abroad
employed 6,963 workers. The store network amounted to 414
outlets, with 76 percent of the locations in  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  