-- Putin Preferred in Moscow With Protests Seen Shifting to Regions
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-07-11T12:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/putin-preferred-in-moscow-with-protests-seen-shifting-to-regions.html
The mood for protest has shifted
from Moscow to the regions as  Russia ’s economy slows, according
to the Center for Strategic Studies in Moscow.  Approval ratings for President  Vladimir Putin , 60, have
stabilized, and he’s now more popular in the capital than in the
rest of Russia, according to the Center for Strategic Studies in
Moscow. Fifty percent of Moscow respondents would vote for him
as president if an election was held now compared with 45
percent outside the city, the survey showed.  Putin’s return for a third term in the Kremlin last year
was marred by tens of thousands demonstrating in Moscow after
disputed parliamentary elections in December 2011. Protests have
continued this year as dozens of activists face prison terms
after violent clashes with police at a rally in May 2012 and
opposition leader Alexey Navalny is tried on fraud charges that
he calls politically motivated.  “This is a schizophrenic situation,” Mikhail Dmitriev,
the research institute’s head, told reporters yesterday. “Putin
is back as the anchor of stability again but there are more and
more people in regions who are ready to protest.”  Sixty-three percent of respondents living in regional
cities with a population of more than a million, said they’re
are ready to protest if they’re hit by an economic crisis. The
Russian average was 43 percent, while in Moscow 15 percent said
they’d be prepared to take to the streets, according to the
 institute , which advises the government.  Protest Mood  “Less educated and less wealthy people in the regions are
much more in the mood to protest than in Moscow and  St.
Petersburg , which were the heart of anti-Putin protests in
2011-2012,” Dmitriev said.  In Moscow, 53 percent of people want to live in a
democratic state, while more than 80 percent of urban residents
in the rest of Russia seek democracy. The Russian average was 67
percent. In the capital, 29 percent are in favor of an
authoritarian regime, compared with 9 percent in Russia.  “Our findings, which we cross-checked with other
pollsters, show that society is very unstable, the level of
concern is extremely high and people’s mood is changing like a
fever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  