-- Qatar National Bank Gains After Net Beats Estimates: Doha Mover
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-07-11T10:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/qatar-national-bank-gains-after-net-beats-estimates-doha-mover.html
Qatar National Bank SAQ rose the
most in more than a week after the Arab world’s biggest lender
reported a better-than-expected climb in second-quarter profit.  Shares of the bank known as QNB rose 1.3 percent, the most
since July 1, to 161.5 riyals at 1:03 p.m. in Doha, taking the
three-day advance to 1.8 percent. The stock was the second-biggest gainer among 20 shares trading on the benchmark  QE
Index (DSM) , which increased 0.9 percent.  QNB’s  quarterly  net income jumped 23 percent to 2.6 billion
riyals ($714 million), compared with the 2.35 billion-riyal
average estimate of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  MSCI
Inc. (MSCI) , which last month upgraded Qatar to emerging-market status,
gave QNB a provisional weighting of 21.7 percent on the MSCI
Qatar Index, the index provider said in an e-mail yesterday.  “The bank continues to deliver solid numbers,” Tariq Qaqish, head of asset management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital
PSC, said by text message. Having the biggest weighting on the
MSCI Qatar index, “would mean higher flow from foreign
investors,” he said.  QNB, which is  50 percent owned  by the Qatar Investment
Authority, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, became the
first Middle Eastern lender with assets above $100 billion after
acquiring lenders in  Egypt , Iraq and Libya. Assets stood at 431
billion riyals on June 30.  The bank said yesterday it’s planning more expansion,
including receiving regulatory approvals to open an office in
 China  and establishing a fully owned unit in India. Fifteen
analysts have a buy recommendation on QNB while two say to hold
the shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  