-- Radical Buddhism Threatens Myanmar’s Path to Democracy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-11T22:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/radical-buddhism-threatens-myanmar-s-path-to-democracy.html
Two years into its transition from
dictatorship to democracy, Myanmar is finding out how dangerous
freedom can be. Since June 2012, when fighting  broke out  between
Buddhists and Muslims in western Arakan state, attacks against
Myanmar’s tiny Muslim minority have spread throughout the
country. More than 200 people have been killed in Buddhist-Muslim riots, and more than 150,000 rendered homeless -- most of
them Muslims.  Many Burmese think that former regime figures are stoking
the attacks, hoping to create an excuse for the military to
reassert its influence. Perhaps. Another set of Burmese leaders,
however, have quite openly fueled sectarian tensions. Monks
associated with the 969 movement -- named after the  attributes 
of the Buddha and Buddhism -- have promoted a boycott of Muslim
businesses and a ban on interfaith marriages. Some have been
accused of egging on followers as they torched Muslim homes and
shops.  In hugely popular sermons distributed on YouTube and DVDs,
46-year-old Wirathu (he goes by one name), the most prominent
969 leader, warns that Muslims have a secret plan to destroy
Buddhism in Myanmar. He accuses Muslim men of seeking to  marry 
Buddhist women in order to strip them of their religion, and
Muslim women of propagating furiously to increase the numbers of
their community, currently only 4 percent of the population.  Vicious Rumors  Wirathu is not a fringe figure. In Arakan state, local
Buddhists have long resented the Muslim community known as
Rohingya, whom they view as illegal immigrants from  Bangladesh .
Elsewhere in Myanmar, economic anxieties have increased tensions
between the two communities; Muslims dominate medium-size
businesses in construction, transportation and other sectors.
Even Western-educated Burmese -- including some supporters of
democracy icon  Aung San Suu Kyi  -- insist that Persian Gulf
money is flooding into the country to build mosques and train
terrorists. What impoverished and unlettered Burmese believe can
easily be imagined.  Myanmar’s new openness has helped the 969 message to
spread. With censorship lifted, many newspapers reprint
elaborate conspiracy theories and Internet rumors as if they
were fact. Wirathu’s sermons circulate freely, and his  Facebook
page  has more than 16,000 “likes.” The monk himself, who was
jailed in 2003 for inciting anti-Muslim hatred, was released in
2010 as part of an amnesty for political prisoners.  The answer is not to limit Myanmar’s newfound freedoms --
let alone to return to junta rule -- but to use them to
encourage tolerance rather than hate. Burmese courts, for their
part, could deliver  more equitable  justice: thus far only two
Buddhists have been convicted for their role in the recent
attacks, while 10 Muslims have received jail terms. Local
officials and police have been accused of standing by during
riots, whether out of sympathy or fear; they haven’t been held
to account by their superiors.  Suu Kyi has hesitated to challenge the 969 message openly
and loudly -- arguing that to do so would only embolden the
extremists. She possesses the moral authority to influence the
masses, and has a responsibility to speak out.  Yet we would also like to hear other persuasive Buddhist
voices within Myanmar and worldwide join her in more loudly
condemning anti-Muslim prejudice -- including the  Dalai Lama  and
his prominent Western supporters. International companies, too,
should make clear to Burmese leaders that they are paying
attention.  Foreign investment  could rise to as much as $200
billion by 2030 according to McKinsey & Co., from $45 billion in
2010, before the junta began to loosen its control. All this
would be at risk if religious violence starts tearing the
country asunder.  Metastasizing Attacks  Changing attitudes about Myanmar’s Muslims will take time,
education and greater economic opportunity. As United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon  declared  this week, some form of
citizenship will eventually have to be offered to the Rohingya,
who are currently treated as stateless people. The turmoil in
Myanmar is already metastasizing dangerously through the region.
On July 7, assailants bombed the temple at Bodh Gaya in  India ,
where the Buddha is thought to have gained enlightenment.
Muslims angry about the attacks in Myanmar are thought to have
been responsible; a young Burmese monk was badly injured in the
attack.  Continued strife will undermine the progress Myanmar has
made toward democracy. The country’s next elections are
scheduled for 2015, and Suu Kyi says she wants to become
president. That only makes it more important for her to stand up
and challenge those among her fellow citizens -- even saffron-robed monks -- who are abusing the liberties they’ve gained.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 