-- Railway CEO Faulted by Union for Blaming Engineer
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-07-11T17:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/railway-ceo-faulted-by-union-for-blaming-engineer.html
The head of the railroad in the
crash and fatal explosion in  Quebec  last week is ducking
responsibility and prematurely blaming the train engineer for
the disaster, a union official in Canada said.  Edward Burkhardt, chief executive officer of Rail World
Inc., owner of Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd., told
reporters yesterday that the engineer failed to apply hand
brakes before leaving the train on July 6. The engineer,
identified by a union official as Tom Harding, parked the 72-car
train hauling  oil tankers  overnight in Nantes, near the
devastated Quebec town of Lac-Megantic.  “I have no respect for a person like this who cannot take
his responsibilities and tries to find a scapegoat,” Guy
Farrell, assistant to the Quebec director of the United
Steelworkers Union, said today in an interview. “It doesn’t
make any sense that he should come out and say something like
this because there’s no proof of this so far.”  Burkhardt paid his first visit to Lac-Megantic four days
after the unmanned oil train rolled from an overnight parking
spot into the center of town, where it jumped the tracks, caught
fire and incinerated about 30 buildings. Police said 20 people
died and about 30 more are missing and presumed dead, making it
the worst rail disaster in  Canada  in more than a century.  Harding of Farnham, Quebec, told the company he had applied
11 hand brakes, Burkhardt said without naming the engineer.  ‘His Word’  “We think he applied some hand brakes, the question is,
did he apply enough of them?” Burkhardt said.  “He’s told us
that he applied 11 hand brakes and our general feeling now is
that that is not true. Initially we took him at his word.”  Police are investigating a possible criminal act or
negligence. The Surete du Quebec questioned Burkhardt after he
agreed to meet with investigators, police spokesman Benoit
Richard said, without providing details. Quebec Premier Pauline Marois visited the town today.  Burkhardt initially questioned the actions of firefighters
responding to a fire on the train about two hours before the
deadly explosions. Nantes Fire Chief Patrick Lambert denied his
team did anything to contribute to the accident.  “Burkhardt, who doesn’t want to take responsibility, who’s
trying to blame everybody else but himself and his company,
first of all blamed the fire department,” Farrell said. “Then
he needed somebody else so yesterday he came out publicly, he
said that the person responsible for that was Tom Harding his
engineer.”  Harding has been suspended with pay, Farrell added. Calls
to a Tom Harding in Farnham weren’t answered.  “He’s off work for his own safety apparently and the way
he’s feeling right now,” Farrell said. The steelworkers union
represents 75 MM&A employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  