-- Trayvon Martin Died From Zimmerman ’Profiling,’ Jury Told
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-07-11T18:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/trayvon-martin-died-from-zimmerman-profiling-jury-told.html
Trayvon Martin is dead because
George Zimmerman profiled the teenager as a criminal, a
prosecutor said in closing arguments in the  Florida  trial of the
Neighborhood Watch volunteer charged with second-degree murder.  “He profiled him as a criminal,” Assistant State Attorney
Bernie de la Rionda told jurors today in Sanford, Florida. “He
assumed certain things. That Trayvon Martin was up to no good.”  “He’s dead not just because another man made those
assumptions but because the man acted on those assumptions,”
de la Rionda said. “Unfortunately, because those assumptions
were wrong, Trayvon Benjamin Martin no longer walks upon this
earth.”  Zimmerman, 29, told the police he acted in self-defense on
Feb. 26, 2012, after Martin, 17, punched him in the face,
knocked him to the ground and threatened to kill him.  “Is it really self-defense when you follow somebody?” de
la Rionda said, referring to Zimmerman’s admission in a recorded
call to police the night of the shooting that he was following
the youth.  The defense will make its closing arguments later.  Circuit Judge Debra Nelson today denied a defense request
that the six-woman jury consider only the second-degree murder
charge when it deliberates. Jurors may also consider a verdict
on the lesser charge of manslaughter, she ruled.  Second-degree murder carries the possibility of a life
sentence. A manslaughter conviction might result in 30 years in
prison, according to Zimmerman’s attorney, Mark O’Mara.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at
   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Boyd in 18th Judicial Circuit Court
in Sanford, Florida.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 