-- Trayvon Martin Shooter Had No Option, Police Trainer Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-07-11T00:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/trayvon-martin-shooter-had-no-option-police-trainer-says.html
George Zimmerman, on trial for
second-degree murder in the death of Trayvon Martin, had no
alternative to shooting the teenager as they struggled on the
grass at a  Florida  condominium complex, a consultant who trains
law enforcement officers said.  Testimony today by Dennis Root, an ex-policeman certified
to teach active officers in the proper use of force, provided an
overview of the deadly altercation from the defense perspective
as Zimmerman’s lawyers wrapped up their four-day case without
putting their client on the witness stand.  Seminole County Circuit Judge Debra Nelson scheduled
closing arguments by the prosecution for tomorrow with the
defense set to close the following day. Her proposed jury
instructions, to be resolved at a hearing in her Sanford,
Florida, courtroom, would give the six-woman jury the option of
convicting Zimmerman of the lesser offenses of manslaughter and
aggravated assault.  Second-degree murder carries the possibility of a life
sentence. A manslaughter conviction could result in 30 years in
prison, according to Zimmerman’s attorney, Mark O’Mara.  The killing of the unarmed black 17-year-old by a man whose
father is white and mother Hispanic, and whom authorities
initially declined to prosecute, sparked rallies and protests
across the U.S., even eliciting a comment from President  Barack
Obama  that if he had a son, that child would have looked like
Martin.  Martial Arts  Root told the jurors he reviewed all the evidence in the
case and interviewed Zimmerman and his martial arts coach. He
concluded Zimmerman’s account to police of his fight with Martin
was consistent with the evidence, Root said during four hours of
testimony.  O’Mara asked Root if he believed Zimmerman conducted
himself properly when he fired a single hollow-point bullet from
his 9-millimeter semi-automatic into Martin’s chest.  “Did Mr. Zimmerman have other options?” O’Mara asked.  “I don’t believe he did,” Root said.  Zimmerman, active in the crime watch group at his Sanford
townhouse complex, said in police statements that he and Martin
fought on a dimly lit sidewalk in the development on the rainy
evening of Feb. 26, 2012. He said Martin straddled him and
slammed his head against the sidewalk before he drew his weapon
and fired a single shot in fear for his life.  Suspicious Appearance  He had previously spotted Martin and called police,
reporting that the youth, who was staying with his father and
his father’s girlfriend in the development, appeared suspicious.  Zimmerman told the police he got out of his vehicle to look
for a street name to give the dispatcher. As he walked back to
his SUV, he said, Martin approached from behind and asked
whether he had a problem. Zimmerman said no. Martin said,
“Well, you do now” and punched Zimmerman in the nose,
according to a recording of Zimmerman’s Feb. 26, 2012, interview
with police.  Another defense witness today was Zimmerman’s former
neighbor at the townhouse complex, who said he contacted her
many times after burglars invaded her home in 2011. Zimmerman, a
Neighborhood Watch volunteer, offered to help her secure her
home, she said.  Defense attorneys rested after calling Zimmerman’s father,
George Zimmerman Sr., who, like his mother, identified screams
from the altercation in the background of a 911 call as coming
from his son. Martin’s parents testified the voice screaming was
their son’s.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Boyd in Sanford, Florida  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  