-- Republican Gowdy Cites Optimism on House Immigration Plan
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-07-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/republican-gowdy-expresses-optimism-on-house-immigration-plan.html
Representative Trey Gowdy, a leading
Republican on immigration, voiced optimism that the U.S. House
would pass a plan, be ready to negotiate with the Senate by
year-end, and set the stage for enacting legislation in this
Congress.  “I don’t know anyone who doesn’t think the current system
is broken,” Gowdy, chairman of the immigration panel on the
House Judiciary Committee, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend. “So if you think the current system is broken, how can
you then fashion an argument that we should do nothing?”  House Republicans oppose the Senate’s immigration plan,
which as its centerpiece has a pathway to citizenship for about
11 million undocumented immigrants. Gowdy of  South Carolina  said
the House would likely cobble several bills together, instead of
one comprehensive plan.  Gowdy, 48, said he wasn’t sure the House would vote on any
measures before the August recess and suggested Republicans
would tackle the issue through the fall.  “I would not be surprised if we were not on the precipice
of a conference or at least debating the principles of a
conference committee” by December, Gowdy said.  The fate of immigration legislation “depends on whether or
not the administration wants a bill or an issue in 2014,”
during the midterm elections, Gowdy said.  Still, he said, Republicans should “be prepared to walk
away at some point if our principles are not being honored and
not being followed.”  Boehner Position  Gowdy’s position on an immigration overhaul falls in line
with House Speaker  John Boehner  and Budget Committee Chairman
 Paul Ryan , who think the House can reshape the Senate’s
immigration measure. Other Republicans, such as freshman Tom Cotton of  Arkansas , say the Senate’s legislation can’t be
salvaged.  Gowdy’s assessment after a much-anticipated Republican
conference on immigration legislation July 10 is that most House
Republicans want to tackle the issue.  Lawmakers said after the meeting that U.S. border security
must be improved before matters such as legal status for
undocumented immigrants can be taken up. They rejected the
comprehensive plan passed by the Senate.  Boehner of  Ohio  and other Republican leaders said in a
joint statement July 10 that they don’t trust President  Barack Obama ’s administration to secure the border as part of a
comprehensive plan. The statement didn’t mention proposals to
grant undocumented immigrants citizenship or some other type of
legal status, an issue dividing Republicans.  Citizenship Path  Democrats say they will reject any immigration plan that
lacks a path to citizenship, leaving the two sides far apart.  Gowdy said  House Republicans  may get some Democratic
support for their immigration plan, even though four bills
approved by the Judiciary Committee had no Democratic support.  The judiciary panel has approved measures creating a farm
guest-worker program, strengthening enforcement of immigration
laws and expanding an electronic-verification program.  Gowdy said Republicans can get Democratic support “once
they believe us that we’re not going to bring the Senate bill to
the House floor.” He said House Republicans’ insistence on
strengthening border security is a political “symbol” as well
as necessary.  “There’s the border, but we have two borders, and if this
is about national security, we need to secure both,” Gowdy
said.  ‘Visa Overstays’  Apart from the border with  Mexico , “you have to have
internal security, because almost 50 percent of the current 11
million were visa overstays,” he said. “So there’s no fence in
the world that’s going to prevent that. And you have to have
employment security.”  The best outside estimate is that the U.S. government now
stops about half of all illegal border-crossings from Mexico,
according to a May report by the  Council on Foreign Relations .  The number of undocumented immigrants in the U.S. dropped
to an estimated 11.1 million last year from a peak of 12 million
in 2007, according to 2012 census data.  Gowdy defended the House bill that would empower state and
local governments to enforce immigration laws.  If  law enforcement  is trusted “in every other category of
crime, why not immigration?” Gowdy said, citing the cooperation
between Boston law enforcement and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  in the aftermath of the  Boston Marathon bombings 
in April.  ‘Natural Subgroups’  Gowdy said undocumented immigrants currently in the U.S.
should be divided into those who want a path to citizenship and
those who want to “live and work in a legal status without fear
of being deported.” They would all have to pass a background
check, and those who do would be divided into “natural
subgroups.”  Children brought into the U.S. illegally by their parents
would be on “a much abbreviated path to citizenship,” as would
those who are “willing to trade military service for
citizenship.” Everyone else would wait at the back of the line
of those who have abided by the law.  Gowdy, who said he couldn’t sell the Senate’s plan in his
district, which includes Greenville and Spartanburg, expressed
confidence that the state’s senior Republican U.S. senator,
 Lindsey Graham , one of the architects of the bill, could
persuade voters statewide.  “He’s a better lawyer than I am,” Gowdy said. “He’s more
persuasive.”  Gowdy played down the political peril for Republicans in
the immigration debate. Whether the Republican stance on
immigration alienates Hispanics and Asian-Americans, who voted
more than 70 percent Democratic last year, depends on “how we
communicate.”  He cited the 1986 immigration-law revision “where we did
have amnesty,” and “even after amnesty,” President  George H.W. Bush  received a smaller percentage of the Hispanic vote
than his predecessor,  Ronald Reagan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  