-- Tribune Spinoff Hastens Ending of Newspaper-TV Marriage
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   M a d e l i n e   M c M a h o n
-- 2013-07-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/tribune-spinoff-hastens-ending-of-newspaper-tv-marriage.html
Tribune Co. (TRBAA) ’s plan to spin off its
newspapers from the company’s TV business follows similar moves
by News Corp. and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and heralds the end of an era
when news broadcasting and publishing went hand in hand.  Companies with print-media roots had spent the past four
decades snapping up television and film assets, betting in part
that the two industries would help promote each other and boost
efficiency. No longer. A seven-year decline in print
advertising, a lack of synergy and looming costs from newspaper
pensions have led to an industrywide divorce.  Over the past year investors have increased pressure to
hive off publishing assets from faster-growing video businesses.
 News Corp. (NWSA)  split the two entities last month, turning the
largest U.S. newspaper publisher into a separately traded stock.
Time Warner, meanwhile, plans to spin off its Time Inc. magazine
empire later this year. That will let it focus on its growing
cable networks that include HBO, TNT and TBS.  “What all these companies are saying is, ‘The newspaper
and magazine assets are not going to grow, and we need to
maximize the value of our core business and that no longer
includes print media,’” said Ken Doctor, a media analyst at
Burlingame, California-based research firm Outsell Inc.  Tribune’s proposed spinoff of its newspapers, announced
yesterday, also puts the television business in a position for
an initial public offering, Doctor said.  The company emerged from bankruptcy at the end of last year
after an $8.3 billion takeover by billionaire real estate
developer Sam Zell torpedoed it with debt. Tribune’s publishing
group was valued at about $623 million in its bankruptcy filings
last year, $300 million lower than a January 2011 estimate.  No Drag  “Tribune’s owners want to shine up the TV business and get
it ready for an IPO or a sale event, and you don’t want the
newspapers being a drag on that,” he said.  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer Peter Liguori,
agreed this month to a $2.73 billion deal to buy 19 stations
from Local TV Holdings LLC in the broadcast industry’s biggest
transaction in six years. The acquisition gives the company 42
stations in 33 markets.  The newspapers industry reached a peak of more than  $49
billion  in ad sales in 2005, the last year of growth, according
to the Newspaper Association of America. The revenue has
declined by almost half since then, falling to about $25 billion
in 2012.  Bygone Era  Newspaper publishers had been buying television stations
since the dawn of the TV industry in the 1950s. Many newspaper
companies, including Tribune, expanded their television holdings
through the 1970s and 1980s as more audiences tuned in.
Washington Post Co.,  Gannett Co. (GCI)  and most other large newspaper
chains all have fleets of stations.  In spinning off its newspapers, Tribune is backing away
from seeking an immediate bidder for the business. The company
had hired advisers to evaluate interest from buyers, according
to people familiar with the process. Tribune could still sell
its newspapers before the spinoff is complete, a person familiar
with the company’s thinking said yesterday.  News Corp., meanwhile, serves as both a model for Tribune’s
spinoff proposal and a potential buyer for some of its
newspapers. Billionaire Rupert Murdoch split up his media empire
into a new publishing company and an entertainment business last
month. The newspaper side, which retained the News Corp. name,
was given a war chest of $2.6 billion in cash to help foster the
business. The other entity now goes by 21st Century Fox Inc.  Entertainment Coverage  Murdoch has expressed interest in the Los Angeles Times,
people familiar with matter said earlier this year. The
publication would add coverage of the entertainment business to
a stable of papers that includes the Wall Street Journal, the
 New York  Post and the U.K.’s Sun.  News Corp.’s spinoff went smoothly, which bodes well for
Tribune, said Paul Sweeney, a media analyst for Bloomberg
Industries.  “The News Corp. transaction was executed very well and was
well received by the marketplace,” he said. “I suspect that
Tribune, which has good assets on the publishing and
broadcasting side, will also have a successful transaction.”  At Time Warner, CEO Jeff Bewkes has been shedding assets
unrelated to its television-programming business since he took
the reins in 2008. Time Warner Cable Inc., the second-largest
U.S. cable company, became independent in March 2009. Time
Warner spun off AOL Inc., the dialup Internet service that is
remaking itself as a Web publisher, later that year.  Meredith Deal  The company moved to spin off Time Inc., the largest U.S.
magazine publisher, after failed deal talks over a joint venture
with Meredith Corp.  Tribune expects to spend the next nine to 12 months
developing its separation plan. When the transaction is
completed, each business will have its own management and
directors. Shares in the newspaper business will be distributed
to investors.  The Local TV deal this month will put Tribune in a better
position to seek higher licensing fees from cable companies such
as Comcast Corp. and  Time Warner Cable (TWC) , which purchase the
rights to air local broadcasts. The company also owns
superstation WGN America and Tribune Studios, as well as
investments in real estate and websites such as CareerBuilder.  While sales at the newspaper unit are shrinking, it’s a
profitable business and boasts some of the highest-profile
publications in the U.S. In addition to the Los Angeles Times
and the Chicago Tribune, its holdings include the Sun Sentinel,
Orlando Sentinel, Hartford Courant and Daily Press.  Tribune’s publishing segment posted $46.4 million in
operating profit in the first quarter. The business’s revenue
fell 3.2 percent to  $465.9 million .  “Publishing is declining -- you can see it in the
numbers,” said Matt Kaplan, an analyst at Imperial Capital LLC
in Los Angeles. Though newspapers are helping shore up revenue
by charging for Web access, they haven’t held up as well as
television stations in the Internet era, he said. “People still
watch local TV for news.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Madeline McMahon in New York at 
 mmcmahon26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  