-- Risks of One-Man Rail Crews Debated in Wake of Disaster
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-07-11T18:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/risks-of-one-man-rail-crews-debated-in-wake-of-disaster.html
The train hauling millions of
gallons of crude oil that slammed into a Canadian town got there
with a crew of one -- staffing permitted by law though opposed
by labor leaders who’ve warned of the risks.  The union representing workers at  Montreal  Maine & Atlantic
Railway Ltd. fought the company policy that allowed a solo
operator to drive and park the train for the night and says the
disaster points to the dangers of manpower cuts.  “It’s unfortunate that it takes such a terrible, terrible,
terrible situation like this to realize how vulnerable we are in
this country,” Guy Farrell, assistant to the  Quebec  director of
the United Steelworkers Union, said in an interview.  In the U.S., crews of at least two people are the norm --
down from five 50 years ago. Some non-union short-line railroads
are using one-person crews and others are pushing to do so,
Dennis Pierce, Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen
national president, said.  Lawmaker Olivia Chow of the  New Democratic Party ,  Canada ’s
main opposition party, said in a statement today the government
should ban one-person crews on trains carrying hazardous goods
in response to the Quebec explosion.  Soaring Production  The safety of moving oil by train is drawing attention as
production soars in areas not fully served by pipelines, such as
 North Dakota ’s Bakken Shale where the doomed Canadian train took
on its freight. Carloads of crude and refined petroleum products
carried by rail in the U.S. rose 47 percent this year through
July 6 from the same period in 2012, according to the
 Association of American Railroads . In Canada, car loads of fuel
and crude oil surged 74 percent in the first four months of this
year, compared with the year-ago period, according to  Statistics
Canada .  Investigators are combing through the wreckage to determine
how the MM&A train, with more than 70 tankers, rolled away from
its parking spot July 6 after the engineer left it for the
night. The train jumped the tracks as it reached Lac-Megantic,
about 250 kilometers (155 miles) east of Montreal, incinerating
30 buildings in the town’s center. Twenty people have been
confirmed dead and scores more are missing and presumed dead.  Safer Crews  Edward Burkhardt, chief executive officer of closely held
Rail World Inc., which owns the railroad, defended the use of a
one-person crew even as he suggested that human error
contributed to the accident.  “We actually think one-man crews are safer than two man-crews because there’s less distraction,” Burkhardt said
yesterday at a news conference in Lac-Megantic televised by CBC.  The engineer who left the train has been suspended because
“the police have talked about prosecuting him and they want him
staying where he is,” Burkhardt said. A United Steelworkers
union official identified the engineer as Tom Harding of
Farnham, Quebec.  “We think he applied some handbrakes,” Burkhardt said.
“The question is, did he apply enough of them? He’s told us
that he applied 11 handbrakes and our general feeling now is
that that is not true.”  Burkhardt agreed this week to stop leaving trains
unattended overnight.  Staffing Issues  The Quebec steelworkers union, which represents 75 MM&A
employees, raised staffing issues in contract negotiations three
times since the company took over the railroad in 2000, Farrell
said. He blamed the Canadian federal government for allowing
one-man crews.  In the U.S., while no regulation or law bans the use of
one-person rail crews, regulations dictating what the engineer
and conductor do in the locomotive effectively prohibit the
practice. Collective bargaining agreements between more than a
dozen rail-worker unions and the railroads who employ them have
kept two operators in most trains running in the U.S.  That’s not enough for the two rail-operator unions, which
four years ago petitioned the U.S. Federal Railroad
Administration asking the regulator to prohibit one-person
crews. The agency told the United Transportation Union and
Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen in a November
2009 letter it had “no factual evidence to support the
prohibition against one-person crew operations.”  ‘Unsafe, Untenable’  “It is, in our opinion and the opinion of many, a very
unsafe, untenable practice,” said James Stem, national
legislative director for the Sheet Metal, Air, Rail and
Transportation union’s transportation division, which was
formerly the UTU.  Railroad workers were among the first laborers to be
unionized in  North America , winning the right to collectively
bargain early in the last century. Deregulation that began in
the 1980s in both Canada and the U.S. led to pressure for
concessions on staffing that the railroads said were appropriate
given advances in technology.  “The unions have a history of arguing for the maintenance
of crew sizes and the creation of positions,”  Gary Chaison , a
labor-law professor at  Clark University  in Worcester,
 Massachusetts , said in an interview. “The railroads are
becoming more powerful. The railway unions are still in
retreat.”  Labor Laws  Fifty years ago, trains were operated with five-person
crews, which were downsized from the earlier days when rail
workers shoveled coal to power engines and had to climb to rail
roofs to turn discs to operate brakes, said Frank Wilner, a
railroad economist and the author of “Understanding the  Railway
Labor Act ” about the history of rail  labor laws .  Two-person crews make sense both because there’s a lot for
conductors to do such as monitoring signals telling rail
operators when to stop or slow and because a second person is a
backstop against inevitable human error, Wilner said in an
interview.  “If you have two people monitoring each other, such as
ensuring handbrakes are properly set, catastrophe can be
avoided,” he said.  Two-person crews have been the norm since the early 1990s,
said Pierce, with the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and
Trainmen.  In the U.S., large railroads, which include  Warren Buffett ’s Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  and  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) ,
“have consistently pushed for crew size reductions for decades
and last unsuccessfully pushed for single-man operations in
certain settings” in negotiations for a 2007 labor agreement,
Pierce said in an e-mail.  Requests Considered  Short-line railroads, the smallest type of railroad in the
U.S., is the group pushing for one-person crews with some non-unionized short lines running one-person crews now, he said.  One other railroad operating in Canada, Quebec North Shore
and Labrador, has sought permission to use one-person crews,
though others are considering it, according to Transport Canada,
the regulator that oversees railways.  To qualify they must have technology in place to support
one-person crews, and must coordinate with municipalities along
their routes to ensure they can clear blocked crossings and
respond to emergencies, Maryse Durette, a spokeswoman for
 Transport Canada , said in an e-mail.  The Federal Railroad Administration, the unit of the U.S.
Transportation Department that regulates rail safety, doesn’t
mandate the number of crew members on a train, Kevin Thompson, a
spokesman, said. “In almost every case” crews include an
engineer to operate and a conductor to manage the train, he said
in an e-mail.  Since 2004, accidents have declined by 43 percent while
highway-rail grade crossing accidents have fallen by 34 percent.
Last year was the “safest year in railroading history,”
Thompson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  