-- S. African Wine Exports Gain Most in 5 Years on Weakening Rand
-- B y   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-07-11T11:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/s-african-wine-exports-gain-most-in-5-years-on-weakening-rand.html
South Africa ’s wine exports
increased the most since 2008 in the first half, boosted by a
better harvest and a weaker rand that made the price of locally
produced goods more attractive, an industry association said.  Total shipments climbed 40 percent in the six months
through June, the biggest first-half advance in five years, Su Birch, chief executive officer for  Wines of South Africa , said
by phone from Pretoria today.  “The weaker rand was the major driver behind the bulk-wine
exports,” she said. “There was also a global imbalance because
the Europeans have been short on wine due to a bad crop, while
we had a good crop.”  The rand has declined 15 percent against the dollar and 14
percent versus the euro this year, the worst performer against
both of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. South Africa
is the world’s eighth-largest producer of wine, accounting for
about 4 percent of global volumes and  Europe  is its biggest
export destination, according to the website of the industry
body, known as WOSA.  Bulk-wine sales from South Africa jumped 66 percent and
bottled wine exports rose 8 percent, Birch said. The U.K.,
 Sweden ,  Germany  and the Netherlands remain the four biggest
markets for packaged wine, while sales to China increased 36
percent and to  Nigeria  by 50 percent.  “We expect that exports will remain good for the rest of
the year but we could see a decline in early 2014 after the
northern hemisphere harvests it crop,” Birch said.  Wine exports rose 25 percent to 469 million liters (124
million U.S. gallons) in the year through April from a year
earlier, according to WOSA data released in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net  