-- San Miguel Has Purchase Offers for Power, Bank Stakes, Ang Says
-- B y   J o e l   G u i n t o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-07-11T16:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/san-miguel-has-purchase-offers-for-power-bank-stakes-ang-says.html
San Miguel  Corp., the  Philippines ’
 largest company , received purchase offers for stakes in its
banking and electricity businesses, President Ramon Ang said.  The company is considering selling 40 percent of Bank of
Commerce after Malaysia’s CIMB Group Holdings withdrew its offer,
Ang told reporters after its beer unit’s shareholder meeting in
Manila yesterday. San Miguel will also sell this year a 49
percent stake in SMC Global Power Holdings Corp., the nation’s
largest electricity generator, he said, without identifying
potential buyers.  The company that started as a brewer in 1890, eight years
before the Philippines declared independence from  Spain , has
expanded into airlines, cement, oil, mining and toll roads. San
Miguel is pursuing a plan to build a $6 billion airport in
Manila, while output of a cement company, where it bought a 35
percent stake, will be doubled to 8 million tons in a couple of
years, Ang said yesterday.  “The sale will improve the company’s liquidity,”  Jomar Lacson , an analyst at brokerage Campos Lanuza & Co., said by
phone in Manila. “The additional cash will help especially
since they’re planning to go into several infrastructure
projects that require significant capital.”  Shares of San Miguel, which also controls the nation’s
largest oil company  Petron Corp. (PCOR) , rose 2.4 percent to 89 pesos
in Manila yesterday. The stock has fallen 16 percent this year,
compared with the benchmark stock index’s 10 percent gain.  ANA Talks  San Miguel, which acquired 49 percent of Philippine
Airlines Inc. in April last year, said on July 8 it held talks
with ANA Holdings Inc. about investing in the flag carrier. The
company is considering selling its 32.8 percent stake in  Manila
Electric Co. (MER) , the nation’s largest power retailer, in parts, Ang
said on June 11. The stake is worth 117.6 billion pesos ($2.7
billion) at current prices.  SMC Global Power, which accounts for a fifth of the
nation’s generation capacity, has a minimum equity value of $1.5
billion, Ang said yesterday.  CIMB scrapped a plan to buy San Miguel’s 60 percent stake
in Bank of Commerce, the 17th-biggest lender in the Philippines,
for 12.2 billion pesos after failing to reach agreement, the
Malaysian lender said on June 21. Bank of Commerce has assets of
92.7 billion pesos at the end of last year, according to central
bank data.  San Miguel is “still pursuing diversification,” Ang said
yesterday. “We are at 60 percent of where we want to be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Guinto in  Manila  at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  