-- HSBC Lured by Returns as Barclays Sees Rupee Jump: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-07-11T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/hsbc-lured-by-returns-as-barclays-sees-rupee-jump-india-credit.html
HSBC Global Asset Management and
Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. are attracted to  India ’s sovereign
bonds,  Asia ’s best performers, as Barclays Plc predicts the
rupee will rebound from a record low reached this week.  Indian  notes  returned 6.1 percent in local-currency terms
this year, compared with 4.8 percent for Philippine debt and a
12.9 percent loss in  Indonesia , indexes compiled by HSBC
Holdings Plc show. The rupee, which touched an all-time low of
61.2125 per dollar on July 8, will strengthen to 58 in three
months, according to Barclays.  HSBC Global says the currency’s recent rout provides an
“excellent” entry point for investors, after global funds cut
their  holdings  of Indian notes by $8.1 billion following the
 Federal Reserve ’s May 22 signal that it may pare stimulus. The
depreciation forced the  Reserve Bank  of India to refrain from
adding to three  interest-rate cuts  this year that helped push
the benchmark 10-year yield to a 44-month low in May.  “The rupee is by far the world’s most-undervalued major
currency on a fundamental basis,” Geoffrey Lunt, senior fixed-income product specialist at HSBC in  Hong Kong , said in a July 8
telephone interview. “Even if it stays where it is, the yields
on the bonds are going to give you quite a handsome return.”  Trading Restrictions  The rupee has rebounded 2.6 percent from its July 8 low
after regulators took steps to curb speculation. The RBI barred
banks from proprietary trading in currency futures and exchange-traded options, the monetary authority said in a statement the
same day. The  Securities and Exchange Board of India  said
separately it will raise margin requirements and cap open
positions for such contracts.  The rupee was little changed at 59.6800 per dollar
yesterday after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 10 the
world’s biggest economy will need stimulus for the “foreseeable
future.”  “The rupee will probably not fall as fast as it has done
in the past few months,” Kenichiro Ikezawa, a Tokyo-based  fund
manager  at Daiwa SB Investments, which oversees about $51
billion of assets including Indian debt, said in a July 10
interview. “Inflation is slowing and the real rates are quite
high, so India remains attractive to me especially when the
external situation stabilizes.”  Inflation Outlook  An index of  wholesale prices  fell to a 43-month low of 4.7
percent in May, official data show, boosting the adjusted yield
on 10-year government debt by 207 basis points this year to 281.
The benchmark inflation rate probably rose to 4.94 percent in
June as the rupee fell 4.9 percent, the most in the world,
according to the median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg survey
before data due July 15.  “Although the nation’s growth is losing steam, downward
pressure on the rupee makes it difficult for the central bank to
add to its interest-rate cuts to support the economy, which is
negative for India,” Takahide Irimura, the head of emerging-market research at Kokusai Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo , which
manages about $38 billion and runs  Japan ’s biggest mutual fund,
said in a July 10 interview. One cannot avoid being “cautious
about rupee-denominated bonds in the short-term as the currency
has been weakening at a faster-than-expected pace, and there’s
no clear sign of turnaround yet,” he said.  The long-term outlook for the notes is better as the RBI
will probably resume cutting rates when the rupee stabilizes and
the emerging-market sell-off subsides, Irimura added.  Yield Surge  The yield on benchmark 10-year sovereign bonds has climbed
36 basis points, or 0.36 percentage point, since May 24. It fell
4 basis points to 7.47 percent yesterday. The local-currency
debt  offers  490 basis points over similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries, down from this year’s high of 622 on April 5.  Bond risk in India has surged as the rupee weakened. The
cost of insuring the debt of government-run  State Bank of India (SBIN) ,
considered by some investors a proxy for the sovereign, using
five-year credit-default swaps jumped to 269 basis points on
July 10 from this year’s low of 174 on May 17, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets.  The rupee is 15 percent undervalued against the greenback,
according to Barclays, which predicts the currency will
strengthen to 59 per dollar in about a month before extending
gains. The lender said the exchange-rate will benefit as it
predicts India’s current-account deficit will narrow from a
record of 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year
ended March 31 and as policy makers will take steps such as
selling bonds to Indians living overseas to boost inflows.  “While near-term depreciation risks remain, the rupee has
fallen significantly since early May,” Barclays analysts
including Singapore-based Hamish Pepper, wrote in a July 10
research report. “In this context we expect the currency to
appreciate against the dollar over the coming year.”  -- With assistance from Karen Yeung in  Shanghai . Editors: Amit
Prakash, Sandy Hendry  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ; 