-- Senators Press Obama to Decide on Afghanistan Troops
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-07-11T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/senators-press-obama-to-decide-on-afghanistan-troops.html
President  Barack Obama  should say
how many U.S. troops will remain in  Afghanistan  after 2014
because a failure to decide is creating confusion among Afghans,
Democratic and Republican senators said today.  “For our part, I believe that President Obama should
signal to the Afghans and our allies what the post-2014 U.S.
troop presence will look like governed by a security
agreement,” Senator  Robert Menendez , chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations committee, said today. “The lack of clarity
on this point has led to too much hedging in the region.”  Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, was joined at a committee
hearing on Afghanistan by Tennessee Republican Senator  Bob Corker , who chided the administration as indecisive. Ambassador
James Dobbins, the U.S. special representative for Afghanistan
and  Pakistan , and Peter Lavoy, acting assistant secretary of
defense for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs, testified.  The Obama administration “has tremendous difficulty making
decisions,” Corker said.  “This administration has multiple
voices within it that keep it from having clarity. I think the
administration has got to quit looking at its navel and make a
decision on what the force structure is going to be in
Afghanistan.”  The senators’ comments came after the  New York  Times
reported this week that the Obama administration was considering
withdrawing all U.S. troops after 2014 over differences with
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai , including a dispute about an
effort to start peace talks with the Taliban.  ‘Strange Person’  Karzai may believe that that some people in the Obama
administration “almost want Afghanistan to fail,” Corker said.  “He’s a strange person,” Corker said. “I think we’ve
helped create a monster here.”  Earlier this year, the Obama administration had signaled
that 8,000 to 12,000 troops including both U.S. and NATO forces
would remain in Afghanistan after the American combat role ends
in 2014. U.S. military officials have recommended the U.S. leave
as many as 13,600 troop.  The U.S. and Afghanistan are negotiating a security
agreement to guarantee legal protections for any U.S. troops
that remain in the country. Karzai called a halt in those talks,
citing his unhappiness over the U.S. effort to start the Taliban
talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  