-- Senate Sets Stage for Partisan Clash on Obama Nominations
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-07-12T01:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/senate-democrats-set-stage-for-partisan-clash-on-nominations.html
Senate Democratic leaders are
forcing a confrontation with Republicans to end delays in
confirming seven of President  Barack Obama ’s nominees including
Labor secretary and head of the Environmental Protection Agency.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said today he also has
enough votes among Democrats to change Senate rules to bar the
minority party from obstructing executive-branch nominees,
escalating a fight that Republicans say could cause them to halt
Senate business in protest. Reid took action today setting up
votes on the nominees, while leaders in both parties later
agreed to a rare closed-door meeting of all 100 senators on July
15 to try to resolve the impasse.  “It is time to end the gridlock that has paralyzed this
institution and this nation,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters after meeting with party members. A vote on the
nominees could come as early as next week.  Reid is seeking to end delays that have prevented Obama
from filling vacancies in his second-term Cabinet and other top
jobs. The nominations of Thomas Perez to run the Labor
Department, Gina McCarthy to lead the EPA and Richard Cordray to
lead the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau face Republican
opposition and risk failing in a filibuster. It takes 60 votes
to end the delaying tactic, and Democrats control 54 seats,
including the two independents who caucus with the party.  Contentious Rules  The parties have been sparring for weeks over Reid’s threat
to seek a permanent change in rules that would ban filibusters
of executive-branch nominees. Republicans say that breaks a
pledge by Reid not to take such a step, and they say it would
constitute a “nuclear option” that could cause them to use
filibusters in other ways to halt work in the Senate.  That fight escalated today as Reid in a floor speech said
Republican leader Mitch McConnell is breaking his word.
McConnell, he said, had earlier agreed to act on Obama’s
nominees in a timely way, and instead Republicans are engaging
in “consistent and unprecedented obstruction” that often ties
objections to the policies of agencies, not the nominees.  Reid said Republicans are increasingly ignoring a Senate
tradition of requiring a simple majority to confirm a
president’s nominees, pointing to the February filibuster during
consideration of Chuck Hagel to be Defense secretary. He was
later confirmed.  ‘Manufactured Crisis’  McConnell in response to Reid called the matter an
“absolutely phony manufactured crisis” aimed at permanently
depriving the Senate’s minority party of any power. He also said
the Perez and McCarthy nominations will probably overcome
obstructionist tactics if scheduled for a vote, as will
Cordray’s, if the Senate completes negotiations on “reforms”
to the financial board.  Democrats won’t always be in charge, and could suffer later
if the rules change occurs, he said.  “This Pandora’s Box, once opened, would be utilized again
and again by a future majorities -- and it will make the
meaningful consensus-building that has served our nation so well
a relic of the past,” said McConnell, of  Kentucky .  The other nominees scheduled for a vote include Fred Hochberg, re-nominated by Obama to lead the U.S. Export-Import
Bank, and three nominees to the National Labor Relations Board -
- Mark Gaston Pearce, Sharon Block and Richard Griffin.  Cordray’s Post  Cordray was nominated to lead the CFPB in 2011. His
selection languished because Republicans said they opposed the
structure of the new bureau, created in the Dodd-Frank overhaul
of financial rules, and they blocked him with a filibuster in
December 2011. The next month, Obama appointed him using his
powers to act during Senate recesses, angering Republicans who
said the chamber wasn’t officially in a recess and Obama lacked
any authority. He was renominated by Obama on Jan. 24.  Perez, now the Justice Department’s top civil-rights
lawyer, has drawn Republican opposition over his handling of two
whistle-blower lawsuits that the department declined to pursue.
They were part of a deal in which St. Paul,  Minnesota , officials
agreed to drop a case being appealed to the Supreme Court in
return for the department withdrawing from the other cases. The
Supreme Court case risked striking down an enforcement tool used
in housing discrimination cases.  In McCarthy’s case, her detractors said their opposition
focuses on the agency’s actions rather than her qualifications.  ‘Productive Conversations’  Senator David Vitter of Louisiana, the top Republican on
the Environment and Public Works Committee, said this week he
had dropped his opposition to McCarthy and will no longer
support a filibuster after having “very productive
conversations” with agency officials. He complained last month
that the EPA refused to fully answer questions he posed about
the agency’s transparency over clean-air rules. McCarthy is the
EPA assistant administrator for air pollution.  Two of the pending confirmations to the National Labor
Relations Board were appointed the same day as Cordray. A
federal appeals court in January ruled that those labor-board
appointments were “constitutionally invalid” because the
Senate wasn’t in recess under the definition outlined in the
U.S. Constitution.  Even as Reid says he has the party’s support to change
filibuster rules, not all Senate Democrats are happy that he’s
proceeding. He and other Democratic leaders say he will drop the
plan if Republicans let these nominees win confirmation.  Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said he won’t back
using the “nuclear option” to change rules, after Democrats
fought Republican attempts in 2005 to help ease approval of
judicial nominees during the Bush administration.  Senator Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat and advocate of an
overhaul of filibuster rules, said he thinks changing the rules
during the session sets a bad precedent.  “You can’t be changing rules every month or two months,”
Harkin said. “There has got be some game plan for at least one
Congress.”  Harkin said he might support a change if Republicans won’t
cut a deal letting Obama’s second-term choices get into office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  