-- Serbia Unexpectedly Holds Key Rate After IMF Urges Restraint
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-07-11T14:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/serbia-unexpectedly-holds-key-rate-as-imf-urges-easing-restraint.html
Serbia  kept borrowing costs
unchanged after cutting the benchmark rate for two consecutive
months, surprising most economists as the International Monetary
fund called policy easing premature.  The Narodna Banka Srbije in Belgrade left its  one-week
repurchase rate  at 11 percent, matching the forecasts of nine of
24 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Thirteen predicted a
quarter-point reduction and two saw a half-point cut.  “Unfavorable movements in international financial markets
have led to higher investor risk aversion, which has sparked an
increase in risk premiums and depreciation pressures almost
throughout the region,” the central bank said in a statement on
its  website  today.  The IMF urged restraint in further easing monetary policy
while fiscal consolidation is implemented to avoid risks to
inflation, the dinar and economic stability, the fund’s resident
representative, Bogdan Lissovolik, was cited as saying by NIN
magazine yesterday. The central bank said today that structural
reforms and caps on budget spending will contribute to a further
decline in inflation pressures.  The dinar traded at 113.8270 as of 4:05 p.m. in Belgrade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, about 3 percent weaker
than before the first rate cut on May 14. The central bank has
intervened 15 times since May 30 to prop up the currency,
selling 325 million euros ($423 million), according to its
website.  Carry Trade  Keeping rates unchanged is needed to maintain the carry
trade appeal of the Serbian currency and “ease pressures on the
dinar from the past month,” Ratko Guduric, the deputy head of
treasury at Vojvodjanska Banka AD in Belgrade, said by phone
before the rate announcement.  Policy makers are balancing the need to shore up Serbia’s
$37 billion economy against fighting inflation and shielding the
dinar from market turmoil. The central bank last month surprised
the majority of economists by lowering the benchmark rate a
quarter point, bringing the total easing since May to 75 basis
points.  Serbia cut borrowing costs for the first time in 16 months
on May 14, reducing the benchmark rate by a half point to 11.25
percent. Investors sold off the dinar and the country’s bonds
after the IMF said on May 22 that the  budget deficit  may reach 8
percent of economic output, more than double the initial target
of 3.6 percent, unless the government takes steps to narrow it.  Dinar Pressure  Keeping the pressure off the dinar “was the only reason to
leave rates unchanged,” Petr Grishin, an economist at VTB
Capital in Moscow, said in a note to clients today. The central
bank will continue with rate cuts as inflation subsides,
allowing the government to take advantage of lower borrowing
costs to meet its debt needs amid “poorer external funding
prospects,” he said.  The yield on Serbia’s 10-year Eurobonds due in 2021 lost 14
basis points to 6.42 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The main  stock index  closed 0.31 percent lower at 488.54 points.  Rate setters need to make sure policy easing does not hurt
the dinar, Ivan Nikolic, member of the central bank Governor’s
Council, the regulator’s supervisory body, said on July 9.  Inflation slowed to 9.9 percent in May, dipping below 10
percent for the first time in nine months. The central bank
predicts the pace of price growth will slow to 4 percent plus or
minus 1.5 percentage point by December.  Inflation Peak  The inflation rate peaked at 12.9 percent in October,
fueled by regulated price increases and rising dinar liquidity,
which forced the central bank to raise borrowing costs eight
times in nine meetings through February even as the economy
shrank.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet, which may be
reorganized by its first anniversary on July 27, revised the
2013 budget, raising the deficit target to 4.7 percent of gross
domestic product from an initially planned 3.6 percent. The
Fiscal Council, a three-member body appointed by parliament to
oversee budget compliance, sees the gap at about 6 percent of
GDP.  “The only domestic factor that might make the NBS pause is
if politics goes off track and the risk of early elections
escalates,” Grishin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  