-- Shanghai Economic Test Zone Lures Imitators From China Ports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-11T09:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/shanghai-trade-zone-test-attracts-attention-from-chinese-cities.html
Shanghai ’s test zone for trade and
investment reforms is attracting attention from Chinese port
cities that want to mirror its role, as Premier Li Keqiang
pledges to keep opening up the world’s second-biggest economy.  Xiamen in the southeast may be included in the pilot
program, China Securities Journal reported today, citing a
person it didn’t identify. In the north, Tianjin has begun plans
to reclaim 40 square kilometers of land for a free trade zone,
and is seeking government approval, the 21st Century Business
Herald reported yesterday, also citing an unidentified person.  Li signaled this week his determination to press on with
policy changes, just as a squeeze in credit and weakness in
exports threaten to drag 2013 economic  growth  to a 23-year low.
 China ’s government may unveil 21 initiatives for creating a Hong
Kong-like zone in Shanghai as soon as this week in a possible
template for nationwide reforms, the South China Morning Post
reported today.  “The question now is whether reform will be fast enough,
not whether reform will happen,” said Yao Wei, China economist
at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong .  While China and the publications use the term “free trade
zone” to refer to the new areas, the meaning is more akin to a
free-market zone subject to less regulation and interference,
rather than an area of duty-free trade. People’s Bank of China
Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in a speech last month that the
central bank will optimize financial conditions in Shanghai to
fit with the test zone.  Tianjin will invest as much as 60 billion  yuan  ($9.8
billion) to reclaim the land over the next five years, according
to the Business Herald newspaper.  Taiwan Proximity  Xiamen’s advantages as a free-trade zone include the
neither-big-nor-small size of its economy and its proximity to
 Taiwan , according to the China Securities Journal, which is
published by the official Xinhua News Agency. The newspaper
cited an “expert” it didn’t identify.  Calls today to the Tianjin commerce bureau’s press office
and Xiamen economic development bureau went unanswered. A person
at the Shanghai municipal government’s press office, who
declined to give her name citing official policy, said the
office has no information on policies for the Shanghai free-trade zone or when they’ll be announced.  The Li-led State Council, or cabinet, on July 3 said it
approved a plan to set up the nation’s first pilot free trade
zone in Shanghai, describing it as an important move to adapt to
global economic and trade development and open up further. The
government has yet to give details on the plan.  Video Games  One part of the plans for Shanghai’s free trade zone may
include ending a 13-year-ban on the manufacturing and sale of
video-game consoles in China, on the condition that companies
such as Sony Corp. and Nintendo Co. make their products in the
new Shanghai area, according to the  South China Morning Post .
The newspaper cited people it didn’t identify who reviewed
documents on the policies for the zone.  Foreign companies would be permitted to set up wholly owned
health-insurance operations and foreign-shipping firms could
establish cargo joint ventures, the South China Morning Post
reported.  China already has a financial zone in the Qianhai district
in Shenzhen, which borders Hong Kong. The area was created by
the State Council in 2010. The government said in June 2012 it
would make Qianhai a test ground for freer yuan usage and
capital-account convertibility.  --Kevin Hamlin, Penny Peng, with assistance from Emma Bi in Hong
Kong, Zhang Dingmin in Beijing,  Alfred Cang  in Shanghai and
Sunil Jagtiani in  New Delhi . Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  