-- Siemens Said to Back Out of Finmeccanica’s Ansaldo Sale
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b ,   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-07-11T09:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/siemens-said-to-back-out-of-finmeccanica-s-ansaldo-sale.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, has ceased pursuing a bid for  Finmeccanica
SpA (FNC) ’s power plant construction unit Ansaldo Energia SpA,
according to people familiar with the plans.  Siemens, which was the preferred bidder for Ansaldo Energia
in talks last year, sees too little technological benefit and
too much overlap, the people said, asking not to be identified
as the considerations are not public. A deal would also have
faced resistance from unions on both sides as Munich-based
Siemens’s own energy unit is cutting jobs amid declining demand
for  power plants , they said.  The change in Siemens’ stance may boost the chances of
South Korea’s Doosan Heavy Industries, which in February said
it’s considering bidding for Ansaldo Energia.  Samsung Techwin (012450) 
said in March it decided against an offer. Ansaldo Energia was
valued at 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) in 2011 when private-equity firm First Reserve bought a 45 percent stake. Siemens,
Doosan and Finmeccanica declined to comment.  A sale to Doosan would raise competition for Siemens’ own
power plant business and one of the German company’s motives for
a potential bid was to stop Asian rivals from accessing
Ansaldo’s technology, the people said. Finmeccanica may ramp up
efforts to sell the asset after it this month appointed Giovanni De Gennaro as chairman to succeed Giuseppe Orsi, who quit on
Feb. 15 after his arrest over bribery allegations.  Leadership Vacuum  The leadership vacuum had threatened the plans of
Finmeccanica,  Italy ’s biggest defense company, to raise 1
billion euros from unloading assets, including the sale of 55
percent of Ansaldo Energia. Finmeccanica, based in  Rome , views a
bid from Doosan more favorably since it would likely cut fewer
jobs than Siemens, a person familiar with the matter said
earlier this year.  Finmeccanica Chief Executive Officer Alessandro Pansa
promised to return to profit this year with the help of asset
disposals. While he has ceased giving a time line for when
disposals might happen, he confirmed they remain planned.  Amid rising charges for a failed push into solar energy and
delayed train deliveries, Siemens CEO  Peter Loescher  in May cut
the company’s profit forecast for the fourth time in his six-year tenure. It’s eliminating 1,200 to 1,400 jobs at three sites
of its energy and infrastructure units to bolster profitability,
people familiar with the matter said in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  