-- Sinopec Beats Bond Freeze as China Inc. Readies for Acquisitions
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-07-11T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/sinopec-beats-bond-freeze-as-china-inc-readies-for-acquisitions.html
For investors seeking signs of
whether Chinese companies will accelerate overseas takeovers,
the  bond market  offers clues.  Firms from  China Petroleum and Chemical Corp.  to  China 
Huaneng Group Corp. sold a record $22.8 billion of dollar-denominated notes in the second quarter, before interest rate
jitters froze the market, data compiled by Bloomberg show. With
bank lending tightening in China and the economy cooling, the
money raised with dollar-bonds offers companies another way to
finance overseas takeovers.  “The companies that utilized the window to raise cheap
funds in the first half are obviously in a better position to
pursue M&A deals in the near future,” said Bob Partridge, a
Hong Kong-based managing director who oversees China transaction
advisory at Ernst & Young LLP. “As soon as opportunities crop
up, they will be able to pull the trigger with ready cash.”  The dollar bond market for Chinese companies seized up in
early June, as China tightened liquidity and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled an end to stimulus measures by
the U.S. central bank.  Dollar bond sales used to be the domain of a few state-run
enterprises and domestically focused real estate developers,
while most Chinese companies mainly relied on bank loans for
takeovers.  Yuan Gains  That changed as  yield premiums  on dollar bonds versus
Treasuries reached a three-year low in January. The  yuan ’s 1.6
percent gain against the dollar this year -- the biggest among
emerging-market currencies -- also made bond sales denominated
in the greenback more attractive to Chinese issuers because the
cost of repaying the debt falls.  In at least $4.7 billion of the total bond sales in the
quarter, acquisitions were specified as a use of proceeds. That
compares with at least $3 billion in the year-earlier quarter,
according to a Bloomberg News search of marketing materials,
statements to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange and ratings company
reports. Another $4 billion was raised in the most recent
quarter to refinance debt stemming from takeovers, the documents
show.  “With this new avenue of financing, Chinese companies are
better positioned to pursue investment opportunities abroad,”
said Fang Fang, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s head of  investment
banking  in China, whose bank helped Cnooc Ltd. sell $4 billion
of dollar bonds in May.  Smithfield Deal  Chinese overseas acquisitions could use a boost. Companies
made $28.3 billion of deals abroad in the first half, roughly
equal to the year-earlier period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That includes Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd.’s
agreement in May to pay about $7 billion, including debt, for
pork producer  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  in the biggest Chinese
takeover of a U.S. company.  Dealmaking still lags behind 2009, when a record $36.8
billion of outbound transactions were struck in the first half,
the data show.  Bond-sale proceeds have helped companies load up with cash
for possible acquisitions. Chinese non-financial companies
listed on the mainland and in Hong Kong held a combined $853.4
billion of cash and near-cash items as of their latest filings,
9 percent more than 12 months earlier and almost double the
amount three years ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Big war chests are being built,” Ernst & Young’s
Partridge said. “The most active dollar bond issuers are also
the most highly focused in overseas acquisitions.”  Sinopec Funding  China Petroleum and Chemical, the state-owned refiner known
as Sinopec, raised $3.5 billion in a dollar bond sale in April
to finance investments overseas, according to a  statement  to the
Hong Kong stock exchange. Sinopec’s parent company said on June
24 it bought a stake in an oil and gas field in  Angola  from
U.S.-based  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  for $1.52 billion.  Sinopec made almost $30 billion of purchases abroad in the
past decade, making it China’s most acquisitive company.  Dollar-bond sales by Chinese companies were choked off in
the past month as yield spreads widened to as much as 430 basis
points more than Treasuries on June 24, from 366 basis points on
May 31, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. Spreads have
since narrowed to 400 basis points as of July 10, the indexes
show.  Electric utility Huaneng Group was the last Chinese company
to sell dollar bonds, issuing $400 million of notes on June 4.  The recent rate turmoil has “affected the attractiveness
of the bond market” compared with other sources of financing,
said Angela Lee, a spokeswoman for  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the
world’s biggest personal computer maker. The Beijing-based
company, which earlier said it was considering a dollar bond
sale to fund acquisitions and expansion, will “continue to
monitor” the market, she said.  ‘Good Option’  Lenovo has held talks with  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  to purchase its server division for as much as $4.5
billion, people familiar with the matter said in April. The
negotiations stalled in May over price, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  Still, demand for dollar-bond financing among companies
will probably continue to grow because deals not seen as
“strategic” by China’s government will struggle to get funding
from state-owned banks, said Stephen Gore, the Hong Kong-based
head of M&A advisory for Bank of America Corp. in the Asia-Pacific region.  “They now have a stronger need to diversify the source of
financing, and the maturing dollar-bond market may be a good
option,” Gore said.  Meanwhile, China’s cooling economy is pushing boards to
scout for acquisitions abroad to keep sales from stagnating,
said Partridge. The nation’s government targets 7.5 percent
growth in  gross domestic product  for this year, which would be
the slowest annual pace since 1990.  “We’re very likely to see a significant pickup in the
number of deals announced in the second half,” Partridge said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in Hong Kong at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  