-- Slovenia to Adopt Revised Budget That Will Swell on Bank Aid
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-07-11T11:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/slovenia-to-adopt-revised-budget-that-will-swell-on-bank-aid.html
Slovenian lawmakers are set to vote
on revised budget spending for this year that will see the
deficit gap almost double as the country seeks to restore the
health of its bank industry and avoid outside aid.  The budget gap will widen to 7.9 percent of gross domestic
product by year end as measured by European Union standards,
from 4 percent at the end of last year, the  Finance Ministry  in
the capital Ljubljana said in e-mailed response to questions by
 Bloomberg News . That would be the highest in the EU this year.
The deficit will swell mostly due to a direct capital boost of
1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) for banks such as Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  Slovenian banks, burdened by surging bad loans as the
economy grapples with a second recession since 2009, are the
focus of investor concern that the euro-region nation may be
forced to seek outside intervention to prop up the financial
industry. The European Commission, the 28-nation bloc’s
executive, in May extended the deadline until 2015 for Slovenia
to reduce its budget gap to below 3 percent of total output.  “I believe the deficit may actually be larger as there is
a risk capital needs in distressed banks could surpass the
estimates,” Andraz Grahek, managing partner at Capital Genetics
in Ljubljana, said in a phone interview. “Unless a miraculous
super-recovery happens in the euro-region and the biggest export
markets, like  Russia  and the Balkans, the figures are surreal as
Slovenia is actually planning a swing from a sizable primary
deficit to a surplus in 2014.”  Yield Falls  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 extended a decline for a third consecutive session,
dropping 10 basis points from yesterday to 6.54 percent at 1:02
p.m. in Ljubljana, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Slovenia also devised a plan to restore banks’ balance
sheets by moving their toxic loans to a government agency in
exchange for state-backed bonds. The plan is being delayed
because of disagreements with the EU over pricing of the bad-loan transfers, according to Finance Minister Uros Cufer.  Slovenia hired Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Ltd to review the
quality of bank assets and the management adviser  Oliver Wyman 
to perform bank stress tests that are set for completion this
month. First bad-loan transfers, planned for July 2 at the
latest by Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek, have been delayed.  The export-dependent  economy  is set to recover only in 2015
after an estimated decline of 2.4 percent this year and 0.2
percent drop in 2014, the state’s economic institute said last
month. Its estimates are used by the government to plan budget
spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  