-- SNS Reaal Offers Bondholders $66 Million Ahead of Court Ruling
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-07-11T11:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/sns-reaal-offers-bondholders-66-million-ahead-of-court-ruling.html
SNS Reaal NV offered to pay 50
million euros ($66 million) to some holders of subordinated debt
seized during the Dutch bank’s nationalization, while others
seeking compensation will have to await a court ruling.  SNS didn’t properly inform investors of the risks
associated with buying the participation certificates, a type of
subordinated debt, the Utrecht-based bank said in a written
statement today. The compensation for buying the bonds sold in
June 2003 is equal to the nominal value plus interest investors
would have earned on 10-year government bonds, it said.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem wiped out
holdings of SNS Reaal’s stock and subordinated debt when he took
control of the firm in February, saving taxpayers about 1
billion euros. The  Amsterdam Appeals Court’s Enterprise Chamber 
may decide today whether investors are entitled to compensation.
The holdings would have been worthless had the firm been
liquidated instead, Dijsselbloem said in March.  The SNS rescue has cost the Netherlands 3.7 billion euros
in write-offs and capital injections, and it is also providing
6.1 billion euros in loans and guarantees.  SNS has already made provisions in its first-quarter
earnings for the amount of the compensation announced today,
Roland Kroes, a spokesman for the bank, said by telephone. The
settlement is separate from the procedure before the Enterprise
Chamber, the bank said. Should the court define a level of
compensation exceeding the offer, the state will make up the
difference, Dijsselbloem said in a letter to parliament today.  The Enterprise Chamber has the option to appoint
investigators to study the value of the expropriated securities,
rather than rejecting the appeal by investors or setting an
amount for compensation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  