-- SoloPower Lays Off Workers, to Move Headquarters to Cut Costs
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-07-11T04:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/solopower-lays-off-workers-to-move-headquarters-to-cut-costs.html
SoloPower Inc., a closely held maker
of thin-film solar panels, has “undertaken restructuring
measures” and is seeking new investors after laying off
employees, according to Chief Executive Officer Robert Campbell.  The company, based in  San Jose ,  California , also plans to
relocate its headquarters to  Portland ,  Oregon , the site of its
manufacturing facility, and has “sold off some surplus or
redundant assets,” Campbell said today by e-mail. He declined
to say how many employees were laid off.  SoloPower deposits a compound made of copper, indium,
gallium and selenium, known as CIGS, onto rolls of flexible
materials. The approach produces solar panels that are lighter
than conventional crystalline-silicon solar products, according
to its website.  Solar panel prices have plunged, pushing some CIGS thin
film manufacturers such as  Solyndra LLC into bankruptcy. Others
such as Miasole Inc. have been acquired. Nanosolar Corp. plans
to auction its California manufacturing assets Aug. 13,
according to a statement yesterday from Heritage Global
Partners, which is managing the sale.  Solar panel prices  have fallen about 57 percent since
January 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. Energy Department in 2011 offered SoloPower a $197
million loan guarantee to expand manufacturing capacity. The
company hasn’t used any of that federal funding, Campbell said.
Its Oregon factory received a $20 million state loan, the
company said in December 2011.  SoloPower laid off 29 workers at the site on June 17,
according to a notice from Oregon’s Department of Community
Colleges and Workforce Development.  The facility is operational “at reduced output,” Campbell
said.  SoloPower’s investors include Hudson Clean Energy Partners
LP, Convexa AS and Crosslink Capital Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  