-- South Africa Mine Wage Talks Open With Highest Demands on Record
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-07-11T09:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/south-africa-mine-wage-talks-open-with-highest-demands-on-record.html
South African gold producers and
unions opened wage talks today, with labor groups set to table
the largest-ever pay demands weeks after the precious metal’s
steepest quarterly price slump on record.  Completing a protocol on how the process is conducted is
the first item on the talks agenda, Charmane Russell, a
spokeswoman for the Chamber of Mines, which represents the
producers, said in an e-mailed response to questions. Unions are
then due to explain their positions on pay and answer questions
from employers, she said.  The National Union of Mineworkers, which represents more
gold miners than any other, is asking for increases of as much
as 60 percent. The Association of Mineworkers and Construction
Union is seeking to double the basic pay for underground
workers. The wage requests are unprecedented, said Russell, and
follow a 23 percent drop in gold prices in the first quarter.  “I’m confident that we’ll be able to reach a settlement
that is acceptable to all parties,” Mines Minister Susan Shabangu told reporters yesterday. “As a former trade unionist,
it doesn’t mean that when you start with 60 percent you’ll end
up with 60 percent. It never happens.”  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-biggest producer,
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) ,  Harmony Gold Mining Ltd. (HAR)  and  Sibanye Gold Ltd. (SGL) 
are among companies that belong to the chamber.  Union rivalry has fueled wage demands, Eugene King, an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Inc., wrote in a July 5 note to
clients.  Acid Test  “Worsening economics have put extra pressure on the miners
to achieve a better outcome for their shareholders, but for the
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union and NUM, this
will be an acid test and hence both are demanding double-digit
pay rises,” King wrote.  The AMCU, representing about 17 percent of workers, is the
biggest in the nation’s gold industry after the NUM, which
speaks on behalf of 64 percent of gold miners, according to the
chamber  The UASA and Solidarity unions, representing workers in
higher-skilled categories, have proposed wage increases of 18
percent and 14 percent, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  