-- SP AusNet issues first euro bond as credit risk falls
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e
-- 2013-07-11T15:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/sp-ausnet-issues-first-euro-bond-as-credit-risk-falls.html
SP AusNet, an Australian electricity
grid operator, and Slovakian gas utility Eustream AS marketed
their first euro-denominated bonds as European credit risk fell.  SP AusNet priced 500 million euros ($652 million) of notes
due July 2020 while Eustream is also planning to issue 500
million euros of seven-year notes, according to people familiar
with the deals, who asked not to be identified because the
details are private. The cost of insuring against losses on
investment-grade debt in Europe fell as much as 5.5 basis points
to 104 basis points, the lowest since May 31.  Bond markets rallied after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said yesterday U.S. monetary policy will remain
“highly accommodative” for the “foreseeable future,” even as
the central bank’s policy makers debate whether to scale back
bond buying this year. The  European Central Bank  and the  Bank of
England  both indicated last week they will continue stimulus
measures.  “Today the market is clearly better than last month after
Bernanke’s comments yesterday,” said Rik Den Hartog, portfolio
manager at Kempen Capital Management in Amsterdam. “Sentiment
started to turn after the Bank of England and the ECB issued
more dovish comments, and  interest rates  started to stabilize.”  SP AusNet’s bonds were priced to yield 95 basis points more
than the mid-swap rate while Eustream’s notes are being marketed
at a spread of 235 basis points, said people with knowledge of
the sales.  Markets Calm  “Eustream was ready to issue the bonds at the beginning of
June but it was decided to wait until markets calm down after
recent market volatility that was caused by statements about the
tapering of quantitative easing,” said Vladimír Stehno, vice
president for debt capital markets at Erste Group Bank AG in
 Prague , one of the underwriters on the deal. “Until now, the
company has been debt-free so this  bond issue  serves as a means
of optimizing their  capital structure .”  Vahram Chuguryan, a spokesman for Eustream in Bratislava,
declined to comment on the bond sale. A spokesman for Southbank,
Victoria-based SP AusNet didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment sent outside office hours.  The average yield on  Germany ’s benchmark 10-year bond fell
five basis points to 1.62 percent at 3:07 p.m. in  London , the
lowest since June 19, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The yield on 10-year Treasuries fell for a fourth day to 2.58
percent.  High-Yield Debuts  The Markit iTraxx Europe index of credit-default swaps on
125 investment-grade companies fell 3 basis points to 107 basis
points. The Markit iTraxx Crossover index of swaps on 50
speculative-grade companies dropped 11 basis points to 431.  In the high-yield market, London-based Vue Entertainment
Ltd., one of  Europe ’s biggest cinema operators, is selling 300
million pounds ($453 million) of fixed-rate bonds and 290
million euros of floating-rate notes, according to a person
familiar with the deal.  The company’s debut bonds have been assigned a provisional
B2 rating by Moody’s Investors Service, five levels below
investment grade.  Findus Group Ltd., the London-based frozen-food maker that
restructured its debt last year, is also planning to issue its
first bonds to repay credit facilities.  The company that produces Young’s Seafood brand is selling
270 to 300 million euros of five-year notes that may pay be
priced to yield about 9.25 percent and 150 to 170 million pounds
of five-year bonds offering about 9.5 percent, according to a
person familiar with the sale. Findus canceled a proposed sale
of bonds in Swedish kronor.  The securities may be rated B3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and an equivalent B- by  Standard & Poor’s , six levels below
investment grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  