-- Sprint Offers Guarantee for Unlimited Wireless Service
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-07-11T20:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/sprint-offers-guarantee-plan-for-unlimited-wireless-service.html
Sprint Corp. (S) , fresh from a takeover
by Japan’s  SoftBank Corp. (9984) , introduced new unlimited service
plans, an effort to tout the mobile-phone carrier as a lower-cost alternative to  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   The new Sprint Unlimited Guarantee assures customers that
they will have unlimited calls, texting and data use for as long
as they have their phone lines, Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint said today in a statement. The idea is to stand out from
the carrier’s larger U.S. rivals, which are switching to tiered
plans -- where customers pay more when they use more data.  “This puts an exclamation point on our unlimited
commitment as AT&T and Verizon move away from unlimited,”  Dan Hesse , Sprint’s chief executive officer, said in an interview.
“What we are saying with this plan is, ‘If you come over, we
will guarantee unlimited for life.’”  The new program provides an early glimpse at Sprint’s
strategy under the control of SoftBank, which acquired 78
percent of the company in a $21.6 billion deal. The transaction,
which closed yesterday, includes a $5 billion cash infusion that
will help Sprint bolster its network and potentially make
acquisitions.  New Pledge  Today’s new pledge is also aimed at competing with rivals
offering data share plans that allow families and multiple
devices to ride on one account, said  Roger Entner , an analyst at
Recon Analytics in Dedham, Massachusetts.  “Sprint’s obviously seeing that the data share plans at
the other carriers are working and they are responding to it,”
said Entner.  Earlier this week, Sprint also acquired the remaining
portion of  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , a mobile broadband company it
already majority owned.  “I would say that this is the first sign of the closing of
the SoftBank and Clearwire transactions,” Hesse said. “By
including Clearwire we are able to put the bandwidth to use for
consumers looking for unlimited access.”  The new Unlimited package starts at $80 a month. Within it,
there are two plans called My Way and My All-In. With the My Way
program, customers get unlimited data and can add an extra
smartphone for $30 a month or an extra regular phone for $10 a
month. With the All-In plan, subscribers get unlimited talk,
text and data, as well as 5 gigabytes of mobile hot-spot use for
$110.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  