-- Stringer’s Bid for NYC Comptroller Upended by Spitzer
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-07-11T13:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/stringer-s-bid-for-nyc-comptroller-upended-by-spitzer.html
With union backing and no
significant competition,  Manhattan  Borough President Scott Stringer was cruising toward becoming  New York  City’s next
comptroller. Then  Eliot Spitzer  said he wanted the job.  A day after Spitzer’s July 7 announcement, his appearance
in  Union Square  created a frenzy as reporters, supporters and
hecklers jostled to get near the former New York governor who
resigned five years ago in a prostitution scandal. As spectators
shouted questions and taunts, Spitzer pledged to remake the
comptroller’s office into the type of Wall Street watchdog he
became as state attorney general.  “Stringer thought he’d have a nice summer off, enjoying a
Fourth of July weekend, when a lightning bolt went through his
brain,” said Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic consultant not
involved in this year’s race who helped Spitzer win his first
term as attorney general in 1998. “Now he’s in the fight of his
life.”  Stringer’s formerly uncontested Democratic campaign, which
stood in contrast to a seven-candidate brawl for the party’s
mayoral nomination, now has all the makings of a similar
dogfight. What’s at stake is a job with the power to audit the
mayor and all city agencies, scrutiny over a $70 billion budget
and stewardship of pension assets valued at $140 billion.  Spitzer leads Stringer 42 percent to 33 percent among
registered Democrats, with about a quarter undecided, according
to a  Wall Street  Journal-NBC 4 New York-Marist poll released
last night. Sixty-seven percent said the former governor should
be given a second chance. More than 40 percent said they had
never heard of Stringer, while more than 80 percent had an
opinion of Spitzer.  Manhattan Booster  Stringer, 53, a graduate of John Jay College of Criminal
Justice in Manhattan, is a career politician who served in the
state Assembly for 13 years before his election as borough
president in 2005. His job makes him a trustee of one of five
city pension funds and gives him a voice in borough zoning and
land-use planning. He also appoints members to local community
boards and acts as a booster for Manhattan commerce and quality-of-life issues.  Spitzer, 54, a Harvard-educated lawyer and former Manhattan
assistant district attorney, was elected governor with 69
percent of the vote in 2006 after becoming nationally known for
prosecuting financial-industry abuses as state attorney general.
He served just two years and three months of his four-year term
before he was caught consorting with high-priced prostitutes.  Hours after Spitzer’s news conference on July 8, Stringer
held one of his own in front of an Upper West Side supermarket,
telling reporters that Spitzer’s candidacy came as no surprise.  What Surprise?  “I always thought that Spitzer could consider this race,”
he said. His spokesman, George Arzt, said the campaign had heard
rumors of a Spitzer candidacy before the announcement.  A year ago, Stringer was trying to drum up support in a
field of several Democratic aspirants seeking to replace Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg , including the current comptroller,  John Liu .
The mayor, the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP, is barred by law from seeking a fourth
term.  Stringer gave up his mayoral quest in November to announce
his candidacy for comptroller. He called on political allies to
pressure would-be competitors from seeking the job, Sheinkopf
said. Since then, Stringer has amassed scores of  endorsements 
from elected officials and at least 20 unions.  In a city where Democrats hold a 6-to-1 voter registration
edge over Republicans, Stringer’s November election was almost
assured -- the party has held the post since 1945. If Spitzer
meets a July 11 deadline to get 3,750 valid Democratic
signatures, the two will compete in a Sept. 10 primary.  Former Madam  On the Republican side, John Burnett, 43, a former
compliance officer for Morgan Stanley and other securities
firms, is seeking the nomination.  Adding to the circus-like atmosphere surrounding Spitzer’s
entry into the race is the possible candidacy of  Kristin Davis 
on the Libertarian line. Davis, a 36-year-old self-described
former madam who says she procured escorts for Spitzer, spent
four months in jail for promoting prostitution, according to her
website.  Stringer says his 20 years as a politician have given him
“the skill set to work collaboratively” with the mayor to sell
New York’s creditworthiness to bond-rating firms, and to improve
performance of city agencies.  “At the same time, you have to be fiercely independent to
take on city agencies, take on  City Hall ,” he said July 9
during an interview on WNYC radio. “That’s what I’ve been doing
as borough president.”  No Steamroller  Stringer contrasts himself with Spitzer, who described
himself as a “steamroller” and made enemies prosecuting Wall
Street executives and threatening recalcitrant lawmakers as
governor. On March 12, 2008, cheers erupted from the floor of
the New York Stock Exchange when traders got news of Spitzer’s
resignation.  The end of Spitzer’s governorship began with an article in
the New York Times two days earlier reporting that a federal
wiretap caught him planning to meet a prostitute in  Washington 
after arranging for her travel from New York. As a prosecutor,
Spitzer charged members of a prostitution ring with crimes.  The election raises the question of whether voters will
remember Spitzer as the sheriff of Wall Street or as a hypocrite
who flouted the law he swore to uphold, said  Robert Shapiro ,
professor of political science at  Columbia University .  Weiner Effect  Spitzer entered the race after Anthony Weiner did well in
public opinion polls as a New York mayoral candidate, two years
after he resigned from Congress following the disclosure that he
sent lewd photos of his crotch to women via Twitter.  “The lesson he learned from Weiner is that from the moment
he enters the race, he’ll immediately draw a lot of press
attention,” Shapiro said. “Spitzer’s banking on using that
moment to show his command of the issues and remind voters of
his accomplishments. At the same time, he will paint Stringer as
a hack.”  Stringer’s campaign may have gotten off to a bad start
against Spitzer by not attacking the ex-governor’s illicit
conduct, Shapiro said.  Instead, Stringer has made an issue of Spitzer’s decision
to pay for his campaign out of his family fortune and opt out of
the city’s campaign-finance system, which offers public matching
funds to candidates who agree to the program’s spending cap.  “I’ve always been unbossed and unbought,” Stringer said
on several occasions since Spitzer became his rival. “I have
real integrity. I believe in the campaign-finance system.”  Wall Street  Spitzer’s retort is that his self-financed candidacy gives
him independence. That means he owes no favors to unions that
have opposed efforts to streamline the city pension system or to
politicians who have signed on to Stringer’s campaign.  “If Spitzer reverts to being the egotist that brought him
down, he will fail,” Sheinkopf said. “If he is able to present
himself as a more humble model, he has a shot.”  Stringer faces a dilemma on accepting support from Wall
Street and criticizing Spitzer as someone who targeted the
financial industry, which the city depends on for jobs, economic
vitality and government revenue. As attorney general, Spitzer
crusaded against biased analyst research at investment banks,
late trading in mutual funds and bid-rigging in the  insurance
industry . He obtained hundreds of millions of dollars in fines.  For Stringer, taking such a position would run the risk of
alienating his liberal Democratic base, Sheinkopf said.  “What had been a leisurely summer has become a tireless
battle for survival for Stringer because his entire career has
been politics,” Sheinkopf said. “Anyone who’s had a headache
that doesn’t go away knows what Scott Stringer is going
through.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  