-- A Suez Halt Would Boost Crude Even as Flow Continues
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-07-11T15:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/suez-halt-would-boost-crude-even-as-supply-continued-iea-says.html
A blockage of  Egypt ’s Suez Canal or
the crude pipeline linking the Red Sea and Mediterranean may
cause  oil prices  to rise even as alternative transit routes help
maintain supplies, the  International Energy Agency  said.  Global crude prices have increased since Egypt’s military
ousted Mohamed Mursi from his role as president last week,
highlighting the country’s importance as a transit route for
almost 4 million barrels of crude and refined oil products a
day, the Paris-based agency said in its monthly report today.  “Although a hypothetical disruption to one or both of
these routes would undoubtedly unsettle markets, it would not
altogether take supply off the market,” the IEA said. Crude
shipments from the  Persian Gulf  to Europe could be re-routed
around the Horn of  Africa , adding 15 days to transit time, the
IEA said.  Crude prices have risen in the past after Iran threatened
to close the  Strait of Hormuz , the chokepoint at the exit of the
Gulf. A closure of Hormuz, passage for a fifth of the world’s
traded oil, would leave OPEC’s main producers with limited
alternative routes for export.  Egypt’s interim Prime Minister Hazem El-Beblawi, appointed
July 9, is seeking to form a government to revive the economy
and ease political polarization. Those efforts may be hindered
as the new administration faces opposition from Mursi supporters
contesting the removal of the Islamist leader and as authorities
ordered the arrest of a Muslim Brotherhood leader accused of
inciting deadly clashes.  Excess Capacity  The Suez Canal and SUMED pipeline, as the link between
Egypt’s ports of Ain Sukhna on the  Red Sea  and Sidi Kerir on the
Mediterranean is known, together handled 3.8 million barrels a
day of crude and products, according to 2011 data cited by the
IEA. Most of that traffic was northbound.  The 2.4 million barrel-a-day SUMED pipeline is used only
for shipping crude northward and has carried mainly Saudi and
Iraqi oil to European markets so far this year, the IEA said,
citing preliminary ship-tracking data.  Iran was recently banned from using the SUMED pipeline, the
IEA said, meaning its exports of about 100,000 barrels a day to
 Turkey  must be shipped through the Suez canal.  The 200 mile-long (322 kilometer) pipeline route is
perceived as less susceptible to risk of interruption because it
passes through the desert and sparsely inhabited areas, whereas
the  Suez Canal  is near cities, the IEA said. The pipeline may
have an additional 900,000 barrels a day of capacity that’s not
currently in use, meaning it could handle some of the oil that
wouldn’t pass through the canal in the event of a halt there, it
said.  Shipping through the Suez Canal continued normally today,
with 43 vessels transiting the waterway, according to the Suez
Canal Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  