-- Swedish Prices Decline as Euro-Area Recession, Krona Weigh
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-07-11T08:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/swedish-prices-decline-as-euro-area-recession-krona-weigh.html
Sweden’s  consumer prices  declined in
June as a recession in the euro-area weighed on demand and a
stronger krona pushed down import costs.  Consumer prices fell an annual 0.1 percent and dropped a
 monthly  0.2 percent,  Statistics Sweden  said today. They were
seen falling 0.2 percent in the year in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Adjusted for mortgage costs , price gains accelerated
to an annual 0.9 percent from 0.7 percent.  “The Riksbank will likely stick to its forecasts that it
won’t cut rates further since today’s figures were largely in
line with its expectations,” said Olle Holmgren, an analyst at
SEB AB in Stockholm. “But pressure remains on them to cut since
inflation is way below target. There is about a 25 percent
likelihood for a cut later this year.”  The krona was little changed against the euro at 8.7065 as
of 10:46 a.m. in  Stockholm . Against the dollar, it gained 0.5%.  Sweden’s Riksbank on July 3 said it won’t raise its main
lending rate for at least another year after this month keeping
it unchanged. Inflation will only average 0.1 percent this year
and 1.3 percent in 2014, the bank said.  Not Enough  “Inflation continues to stay well below the Riksbank
inflation target but the unchanged interest rate decision in
July shows that this is not enough for the Riksbank to act,”
said Mikael Sarwe, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Stockholm in
a note to clients. “Instead they, for financial stability
reasons, are more inclined to look past the normal 2-3 year
inflation target horizon.”  Falling mortgage costs explained most of the drop in
consumer prices compared with last year, while summer clothing
sales and lower electricity bills explained the monthly decline,
 Statistics Sweden  said.  Sweden’s government last week said it plans to lower taxes
and boost spending to support demand in the Nordic economy. It
predicted 1.3 percent economic growth this year as exports fall
0.8 percent, while household consumption rises 2.4 percent.
 Unemployment (SWUERATE)  will rise to an average 8.4 percent this year from
8 percent in 2012 and stay at that level in 2014, it said.  Finance Minister Anders Borg on July 4 said there is more
downside than upside risks to the forecasts and that “there’s a
significant risk that things get messy in the financial markets
this autumn, that money simply rushes out of weaker countries in
Europe back home to the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Stockholm at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  