-- Swiss Stocks Rise as Bernanke Signals Stimulus; UBS Gains
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-07-11T11:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/swiss-stocks-rise-as-bernanke-signals-stimulus-ubs-gains.html
Swiss stocks  rose to their highest
level in more than five weeks after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  called for a continuation of stimulus measures.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the country’s largest lender, advanced. Swatch
Group AG climbed 1.7 percent. Partners Group Holding AG slumped
6.6 percent, its biggest drop in four years.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.5 percent to 8,009.97 at 1:57
p.m. in Zurich. The gauge has rallied 2.9 percent so far this
week amid optimism that economic data and corporate earnings
will improve. The broader Swiss Performance Index also added 0.5
percent today.  “The up move today confirms the joyful reaction of the
markets to Bernanke’s comments, which surely were supportive,”
said Christoph Riniker, head of strategy research at Julius Baer
Group Ltd. in Zurich. “Sentiment is quite positive. I think the
mood can last for a while, but it being summer, a lull with low
volumes can’t be excluded. However, I don’t expect a big setback
in the next coming weeks.’  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 10 percent lower than the 30-day average today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bernanke spoke after the central bank released minutes of
its June 18-19 gathering showing that about half of the 19
participants in the  Federal Open Market Committee  wanted to halt
the $85 billion in monthly bond purchases by the end of the
year. At the same time, the minutes showed many Fed officials
wanted to see more signs employment is improving before backing
a trim to bond purchases known as quantitative easing.  UBS, Swatch  UBS advanced 1.3 percent to 16.78 Swiss francs, and Swatch,
the biggest maker of Swiss watches, increased 1.7 percent to
559.50 francs.  Nestle SA, the world’s largest food company, added 1
percent to 63.95 francs, contributing the most to the SMI’s
gain. Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said today that
 China ’s economic growth is slowing to a more sustainable level
and that the country’s slowdown isn’t a ‘‘high-alert” issue.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  gained 2 percent to 23.50 francs after
Vontobel Holding AG raised its price estimate for the banking-software maker by 24 percent to 31 francs, citing a relicensing
opportunity that offers substantial upside.  Partners Group slumped 6.6 percent to 253.25 francs. The
 money manager  focused on private equity posted a 5.9 percent
increase in assets in the first half of the year after clients
added funds at the lower end of its target range.  Kuehne & Nagel International AG (KNIN) , the world’s biggest sea-freight forwarder, slid 1.3 percent to 112.40 francs, halting
five days of gains, its longest winning streak since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  