-- U.K. Lawmakers May Face Voter Ire Over 10% Pay Increase
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-07-11T10:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/u-k-lawmakers-may-face-voter-ire-over-10-pay-increase.html
British members of Parliament were
faced with a dilemma when the body that sets their pay
recommended a 10 percent increase in 2015, something many voters
may find unacceptable at a time of spending cuts.  The  Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority ,
established to set salaries and fund parliamentary offices in
the wake of the 2009 expenses scandal, said today that
lawmakers’ pay should rise to 74,000 pounds ($112,000) a year,
with pensions, resettlement payments and allowances reduced. Pay
is currently 66,396 pounds, though it will go up by 1 percent
next year.  Conscious of possible voter anger, Prime Minister  David Cameron  has said he thinks the cost of politics should fall.
Still, aware of a possible negative reaction from many lawmakers
in his  Conservative Party , who have set records for
rebelliousness, the premier has stopped short of saying the pay
increases shouldn’t happen at all. In any case, he has no power
to block them.  “I recognize some will just concentrate on the salary,
rather than the package as a whole, and say it’s too high;
others that it’s too low,” IPSA Chairman Ian Kennedy said in an
e-mailed statement. “There is no easy way forward on this. We
have put together a package of reform which we think is fair and
which ends the anomalies of the past.”  “The prime minister’s view is that the cost of politics
shouldn’t go up, it should go down,” Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, told reporters in  London  today. “He certainly
doesn’t think MPs’ pay should be going up while public-sector
pay is rightly being constrained.”  In this year’s budget, the government extended its 1
percent cap on annual public-sector pay rises into 2016.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , who heads the Liberal
Democrat party in Cameron’s coalition, said on his weekly phone-in program on LBC radio this morning that it’s “about the worst
time to advocate a double-digit pay increase for MPs” and that
he would not personally accept one.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  