-- U.K. Predicts $2.9 Billion Benefit From Energy Efficiency
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-07-11T14:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/u-k-predicts-2-9-billion-benefit-from-energy-efficiency.html
The U.K. government said measures to
make large companies more energy efficient may create social
benefits totaling 1.9 billion pounds ($2.9 billion) due to
better  air quality  and lower costs for carbon permits.  The benefits would result from a plan today from the
Department of Energy and Climate Change to compel companies
employing 250 people or more to have an assessment that would
spell out measures they can take to use less energy in their
industrial processes and to heat and light their buildings.  “Investing in  energy efficiency  can hugely benefit our big
businesses,” Energy Minister  Michael Fallon  said in a statement
today. “Energy saving assessments will show exactly where the
biggest savings can be made and if firms then go forward and
invest, they will soon see the benefits.”  The U.K. is trying to find ways to reduce energy demand
after the industry regulator Ofgem warned last month that the
risk of power shortages is rising as old  power plants  close.
Britain is also trying to slash greenhouse gas emissions by 34
percent in 2020 from 1990 levels.  While the assessments would be mandatory for large
businesses, they would not be compelled to undertake any of the
energy-saving measures proposed, according to the department.
The social benefits would accrue through 2030 assuming companies
implemented 6 percent of the possible measures identified for
their buildings and industrial processes.  A typical business could save 56,400 pounds a year on their
energy costs as a result of annual expenditure on conservation
measures of 15,000 pounds, the department said. A consultation
on the plan for compulsory assessments will run until Oct. 3.  “Effective energy efficiency means cutting out waste and
increasing profits,” Climate and Energy Minister  Greg Barker 
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  