-- U.S. Sees China Opening Economy as Both Pursue Investment Accord
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-07-11T23:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/u-s-says-china-agrees-to-more-open-economy-yuan-reforms.html
The U.S. said China’s new government
is moving toward a more market-based and open economy, and the
two nations expressed willingness to negotiate an investment
treaty binding the world’s biggest growth engines.  “China’s leaders have indicated that they will continue to
make significant changes to the exchange-rate system, the
financial system, state-owned enterprises and the existing mix
of taxes on businesses,”  Treasury Secretary  Jacob J. Lew said
after two days of meetings in Washington. “While today’s
commitments do not resolve all of the concerns of either side,
they do represent real progress.”  Lew’s counterpart, Vice Premier Wang Yang, cited positive
results for his country, saying the U.S. agreed to treat Chinese
investors fairly. The cross-border investment pact, which Lew
called a “significant” step, would be the first one in which
the world’s second-largest economy has agreed to include all
industries in an accord with another country, the U.S. Treasury
Department said.  “If China negotiates a treaty that not only protects
investments after they are made, but also improves U.S.
investors’ access to the Chinese market, this would be a real
breakthrough,” said Clay Lowery, a vice president at
Washington-based Rock Creek Global Advisors LLC who was
assistant Treasury secretary for international affairs during
the George W. Bush administration. “It would mean greater
transparency for investors and an opportunity to address real
market access concerns.”  Snowden Dispute  The discussions between Lew, Secretary of State  John Kerry 
and their Chinese counterparts, Wang and State Councilor Yang Jiechi, focused on economic issues after Edward Snowden’s leak
of U.S. surveillance secrets complicated the national-security
discussions. Kerry left the talks early to be with his
hospitalized wife and was replaced by his deputy  William Burns .  During the closing statements, Burns criticized China for
letting Snowden leave Hong Kong last month. Yang replied that
China acted in accordance with the law, and the government’s
handling of the matter was “beyond reproach.”  Addressing China’s concern about restrictions on the
purchase of American companies, Wang urged the U.S. to ensure
that rulings of the  Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S .,
or CFIUS, are based on national security.  The committee is reviewing Shuanghui International Holdings
Ltd.’s proposed $4.7 billion purchase of Virginia-based
 Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD) , the world’s largest pork producer, amid
public unease about Chinese investments.  Yuan ‘Reform’  Among the issues the U.S. wants China to address is the
government’s control over the value of its currency, the  yuan .
Lew said “China is committed to further exchange-rate reform”
and is “actively considering” joining a global standard for
the reporting of reserves to the  International Monetary Fund .  While the Treasury secretary said the  U.S. economy  is
strengthening, Chinese economic officials today cautioned that
the  Federal Reserve  should weigh the wider impact of its
eventual withdrawal of monetary stimulus, called quantitative
easing.  “We support the Fed’s consideration of exiting from QE,
but it should heed the impact of its policy on the global
economy and financial markets,” Chinese Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said today. “The U.S. policy not only affects the U.S.
but has a spillover effect on the global economy,” especially
for  emerging markets , Lou said at a press conference.  China’s economic growth has been slowing. The IMF earlier
this week projected that  China’s economy  will grow 7.8 percent
this year and 7.7 percent in 2014.  Growth Target  Lou said he’s confident in achieving a 7 percent growth
rate this year. That is lower than the government’s official
growth target of 7.5 percent.  U.S. gross domestic product is forecast to expand 1.7
percent before accelerating by 2.7 percent next year, according
to the Washington-based fund.  Earlier today, officials including Lew, Burns, U.S.
Commerce Secretary  Penny Pritzker , and Wang and Yang attended a
meeting with business leaders.  The chief executive officers included Laurence D. Fink of
BlackRock Inc.,  Ellen Kullman  of DuPont Co. and Patricia Woertz
of Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. Chang Zhenming, chairman of CITIC
Group Corp., and Tian Guoli, chairman of Bank of China Ltd.,
were among the Chinese executives, the Treasury said in a
statement. The executives said their priorities include
protection of intellectual property rights, cybersecurity and
streamlining regulation, the Treasury said.  China and the U.S., which together burn more than 40
percent of the world’s coal, also agreed yesterday to jointly
develop technology to capture carbon dioxide from  power plants 
and take other steps to combat  climate change .  The two nations will implement “large-scale, integrated”
demonstration projects aimed at capturing, utilizing or storing
carbon dioxide, according to a statement released by the State
Department. “These demonstrations will engage companies in both
countries and allow for enhanced trade and commerce.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  