-- U.S. Bond Funds Drew $219 Million Last Week in Rebound
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-07-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/u-s-bond-funds-get-219-million-in-rebound-s-second-week.html
U.S. fixed-income mutual funds
attracted investor deposits last week, rebounding from
redemptions spurred by speculation that the  Federal Reserve 
would scale back its unprecedented stimulus, while bond
exchange-traded funds had withdrawals.  Investors put $219 million into U.S. taxable-bond mutual
funds while pulling $456 million from bond ETFs in the week
ended July 10, Denver-based research firm Lipper said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. They deposited more than $3 billion in
bond mutual funds and ETFs combined during the week ended July
3, the first week of net deposits in five weeks. U.S. bond funds
had withdrawals of $23.7 billion in the four weeks ended June
26, the most since October 2008, Lipper said.  “Taxable-bond fund investors were of two minds,” Lipper
said in the statement. “Neither amount reflected a strong
opinion on bonds.”  The flight from bonds was triggered by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who told Congress on May 22 that the U.S. central bank
may start reducing its bond purchases. Bernanke said in a speech
on July 10 that the  U.S. economy  needs “highly accommodative
monetary policy for the foreseeable future.”  Investors pulled about $60 billion from U.S. bond funds in
June, the biggest monthly redemptions in records going back to
1961, according to estimates from the  Investment Company
Institute . Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s
largest active fixed-income manager, had a record $14.5 billion
in net redemptions last month.  U.S. taxable-bond mutual funds had withdrawals of $5.1
billion in the week ended July 2, compared with $20.5 billion a
week earlier, according to ICI estimates.  Municipal-bond mutual funds saw redemptions accelerate in
the latest week as $1.1 billion was pulled, Lipper said.
Municipal-bond ETFs had withdrawals of $116 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  