-- U.S. Mortgage Rates for 30-Year Loans Rise to 2-Year High
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-07-11T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/u-s-mortgage-rates-for-30-year-loans-rise-to-2-year-high.html
U.S. mortgage rates for 30-year
loans rose to a two-year high, increasing borrowing costs amid
signs of an improving job market.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage climbed to
4.51 percent, the highest since July 2011, from 4.29 percent
last week, McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac  said in a
statement today. The average 15-year rate increased to 3.53
percent from 3.39 percent.  The 30-year rate, which climbed from a near-record low of
3.35 percent in early May, has risen on expectations that the
 Federal Reserve  will reduce bond purchases as the economy
returns to health. Improving  employment  is bringing more buyers
into the market as competition over a tight  supply  of listings
drives up prices. Payrolls rose by 195,000 workers in June, the
Labor Department reported on July 5, exceeding the 165,000 gain
projected by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “Housing affordability has deteriorated slightly in
response to the rise in mortgage interest rates, but remains
considerably better than the historical average,”  Paul Diggle ,
property economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , wrote in
a research note yesterday. “With price gains still going
strong, there are few signs that the rise in rates will derail
the housing recovery.”  U.S. home prices rose 12.2 percent in May from a year
earlier, the largest increase since February 2006, according to
 Irvine , California-based CoreLogic Inc.  Freddie Mac’s weekly data is mostly collected from Monday
to Wednesday. It largely doesn’t reflect a drop in bond yields
after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday called for
maintaining stimulus efforts.  Refinancing Decline  The 30-year rate is still well below the average of about
5.3 percent for the past 10 years, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  While housing demand remains strong, the rising rates are
slowing refinancing. The share of mortgage applicants seeking to
 refinance  was 64 percent last week, the lowest since May 2011,
the  Mortgage Bankers Association  said yesterday.  Lenders have had to re-evaluate borrowers pre-approved for
loans a few months ago because of the higher rates, which can
decrease purchasing power, Joe D’Alessio, a loan officer at HSBC
Holdings Plc in  New York , said yesterday in a telephone
interview. Rising financing costs have yet to slow the momentum
of the housing recovery, he said.  “The market hasn’t really caught up with the rates,”
D’Alessio said. “There’s still very low inventory, so sellers
aren’t really reducing purchase prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  