-- Mundipharma, Apple, ‘Mockingbird’: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-11T11:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/mundipharma-apple-mockingbird-intellectual-property.html
Mundipharma Pty defeated a bid for
the early introduction of a generic version of the pain
medication OxyContin in  Australia , where it has the rights to
sell the drug.  Australia Federal Court Justice Steven Rares upheld the
decision by the Commissioner of Patents in 2000 to extend
Mundipharma’s OxyContin patent to July 23, 2014. He rejected a
claim by Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty, a maker of generic drugs,
that the extension was invalid.  Spirit had argued that OxyContin isn’t a “pharmaceutical
substance per se,” with the patent only referring to the drug’s
active ingredient, oxycodone, making the extension invalid,
according to the July 5 ruling. Spirit also argued that the
application for the extension was invalid because Euro-Celtique
SA, a company related to Mundipharma, was granted the extension
in 2000 even though it had assigned the patent to Mundipharma
Medical GmbH a year earlier.  Rares dismissed both challenges, ruling OxyContin is a
pharmaceutical substance which relies on a mixture of dosages of
oxycodone. The judge also said that while Mundipharma Medical
had been assigned the patent, Euro-Celtique remained registered
as the patentee for the drug until 2005, with the companies
apparently having forgotten about the 1999 assignment.  Purdue Pharma LP, the  Stamford , Connecticut-based drugmaker
which granted the OxyContin rights to Mundipharma, in April
agreed to allow  Actavis Inc. (ACT)  to sell a generic of the drug in
the U.S. as early as the start of next year.  The case is Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty v. Mundipharma Pty,
NSD721/2010 and NSD1054/2010, Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Many File Applications to Register ‘IWatch’ Trademark in U.S.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which has applied to register “iWatch” as a
trademark in  Japan , may find getting U.S. trademark registration
to be more difficult.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office , one iWatch trademark was registered in April 2007 by a
San Diego-based video company, to be used for computer software
and hardware for video transmission.  A New York company filed an application in July 2007 to
register the term for watches and components for watches.  A security company in Cherry Hill,  New Jersey , has a
February 2013 application to register “Iwatch” for
surveillance activities.  On June 5 a  Delaware  company filed a trademark application,
saying it wanted to register the term for use with computer
software, hardware and peripherals, wireless communications
devices, global positioning system devices, cameras and cases.  OMG Electronics of Fresno,  California , filed an application
in August 2012, seeking the mark for use with mobile phones.  A biometrics company in San Jose, California, filed an
application in February to use the term with movement sensing
and measuring devices related to human activity.  As of yesterday, Apple hadn’t filed an “iWatch”
application, according to the patent office’s online database.  University of Delaware Settles T-Shirt Suit With Two Students  A suit by two University of Delaware students over T-shirt
designs to which their school objected has been dismissed,
according to a July 8 court filing.  Benjamin Goodman and Adam Bloom of  Newark , Delaware, filed
suit in federal court in December, saying the school had
threatened to sue them for trademark infringement.  They included images of their T-shirt designs in their
complaint and asked the court to find that the school had
infringed their First Amendment rights to free speech. They
sought money damages.  The design hinted at an  obscene phrase , and the students
argued that in the past, the school had tolerated offensive
costumes and a student’s membership in a white supremacist
group.  They pointed to the university’s faculty handbook, which
says members of the university community are free “to express
opinions publicly and privately.”  The suit was dismissed with all parties’ agreement on July
8. According to court papers, they agreed that the case can’t be
brought again and that all parties paid their own litigation
costs.  The case is Goodman v. University of Delaware, 1:12-cv-01689-RGA, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Swedish Police Seize Servers From Company That Creates Subtitles  Swedish police raided and shut down a website in that
country that offered consumer-created subtitles for movies and
television programs,  reported  TorrentFreak, a website devoted to
file-sharing and copyright news.  Despite that fact that the site, Undertexter.se, was
providing the user-created subtitle files for free, police
seized the company’s servers, according to TorrentFreak.  Undertexter’s founder, Eugen Archy, told TorrentFreak that
those who worked on the website didn’t consider their own
interpretation of a film’s dialogue to be something illegal.  Anna Troberg, a leader of the Swedish Pirate Party, told
TorrentFreak the raid was a sign that content industries were
resorting to “desperate measures” to preserve their business
model.  France to Substitute Fines for Internet Disconnection  A government report says  France  will replace its present
anti-piracy law that permits Internet disconnection for those
suspected of copyright infringement, the U.K.’s Guardian
newspaper  reported .  In its place, the government would set up a system of
graduated fines that would increase with subsequent infractions,
according to the Guardian.  France’s highest court dealt the current law a setback when
it ruled that  Internet access  is a basic human right, the
newspaper reported.  To date, enforcement under the 2009 law has resulted in
only one 150-euro ($193) fine and one 15-day disconnection from
the Internet, according to the Guardian.  ‘Mockingbird’ Defendant Gets Second Extension in Harper Lee Suit  The literary agent being sued by author Harper Lee over the
copyright to “To Kill a Mockingbird” got another extension of
time to respond to the complaint, according to a federal court
filing.  U.S. District Judge Robert W. Sweet in  Manhattan  yesterday
granted a request by Samuel L. Pinkus for a second extension of
time to respond.  Lee filed the suit against Pinkus in May, claiming he took
advantage of her age and infirmity to deprive her of royalties
from the 1960 novel. According to a letter to the court by
counsel for Pinkus, Lee filed a separate state court case in New
York against him and six other defendants, complicating
“coordination related to any resolution.”  In her suit, Lee asked the court to ensure her ownership of
the copyright to the book and to compel forfeiture of the
agent’s commissions.  “To Kill a Mockingbird,” a story of racial injustice in
the American South, won a Pulitzer Prize for fiction and was
made into a film starring Gregory Peck, who won an Oscar for
playing the lawyer Atticus Finch. It is Lee’s only published
novel. The book has sold more than 30 million copies worldwide.  The case is Lee v. Pinkus, 13-cv-03000, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Disney ‘Mr. Young’ Copyright Complaint to Get ITC Review  The U.S. International Trade Commission will take up a
copyright complaint filed by a California screenwriter and his
company against Walt Disney Co.  The Washington-based commission, which can block the
importation of products that infringe U.S.  intellectual property 
rights, is typically a forum for patent disputes. The request by
screenwriter Emir Tiar is the first of its kind.  Tiar, who writes as E.T. Radcliffe LLC, claimed the
television show “Mr. Young,” about a student who becomes the
teacher of his class, copies scripts, character analysis and
episode guides he created.  The program was produced and filmed in Vancouver and aired
on Canadian television and is now being imported and aired on
the Disney Channel, according to the complaint.  Tiar asked the commission to block Disney from importing
and airing the program.  He sued Burbank, California-based Disney in federal court
in Los Angeles in October over the same program, voluntarily
dismissing that case in March, according to court records.  The federal court case Tiar v. Walt Disney Co., 12-cv-09323, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
( Los Angeles ).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Court Lifts Order Protecting Halliburton, KBR Trade Secrets  In a false claims case against Halliburton Co., a federal
court in  Washington  lifted a confidentiality order aimed at
protecting the trade secrets of the Houston-based engineering
and oil-field services company.  The suit dates back to June 2005, when Harry Barko, a
former subcontract administrator for  Halliburton’s (HAL)  Kellogg Brown
& Root unit, claimed Halliburton and related entities and its
subcontractors schemed to defraud the government. The defendants
were accused of inflating the costs of building laundry
facilities and providing laundry services on three U.S. military
bases in  Iraq .  In March 2011, U.S. District Judge Emmet G. Sullivan issued
a protective order barring the disclosure of confidential
information related to proprietary, business, financial,
technical, trade secret information, and commercially sensitive
information or data related to the projects in Iraq.  Under the order, any party to the litigation could
designate as “confidential information” anything that fell
within the parameters defined by the court.  That rule was lifted in a July 8 order by U.S. District
Judge James S. Gwin. He also rejected a defense motion to
dismiss the case.  Gwin said a court can grant a protective order only when it
is essential to shield a party from significant harm or to
protect an important public interest. The defendants “have
failed to show that any disclosure of particular information
would cause serious harm.”  He refused to dismiss the case, saying that Barko’s claims
were plausible and properly states.  Kellogg Brown & Root unit was split off from Halliburton in
November 2006, and is now known as  KBR Inc. (KBR)   The case is U.S. v. Halliburton Co., 1:05-cv-01276, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 