-- Hungary’s June Inflation Rate Exceeds Economist Forecast on Food
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-07-11T08:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/hungary-s-june-inflation-rate-exceeds-economist-forecast-on-food.html
Hungary’s inflation accelerated more
than economists forecast last month, fueled by an increase in
seasonal food and energy prices.  Consumer prices  rose 1.9 percent from a year earlier after
a 1.8 percent increase in May, the statistics office in Budapest
said today. The median estimate of 16 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for a 1.8 percent increase. Prices rose 0.2 percent
from May, compared with a median estimate for a 0.1 percent
increase.  With the inflation rate holding near a 39-year low it
reached in April on the back of government-mandated household
energy-price cuts, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank was able to lower its
benchmark rate to a record-low 4.25 percent last month. The
easing cycle that started in August 2012 isn’t over yet and rate
setters are in favor of “gradual, cautious” cuts in “small
steps,” central bank Vice President Ferenc Gerhardt said in an
interview with weekly Heti Valasz, published today.  “The main reason for the low rate of the annual price
increase is the substantial reduction in household energy
costs,” the statistics office said in an e-mailed statement.
“There was also a significant price drop in  consumer durables ,
while alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, food and services
became more expensive than a year ago.”  The forint strengthened 0.4 percent to 293.28 per euro as
of 9:47 a.m. in Budapest. It has gained 1.1 percent in the past
three months, the third-best performance among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Seasonal food and holiday-related service prices were the
main drives of price growth in June, statistician Borbala Minary
told reporters today.  Household energy costs dropped 8.7 percent from a year
earlier, while prices in the services industry rose 4 percent.
Food prices increased an annual 4.1 percent and alcohol and
tobacco costs jumped 8.8 percent.  The core inflation rate, which strips out volatile items
such as energy costs, was 3 percent from a year earlier and 0.2
percent from May, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  