-- Turkey Risks Losing Half U.S. Steel Pipe Sales From Antidumping
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-07-11T12:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/turkey-risks-losing-half-u-s-steel-pipe-sales-from-antidumping.html
Turkey’s steel-pipe producers may
lose half of their U.S. sales if American competitors win an
antidumping case against nine countries over imports.  Turkey, with a 4 percent share of the U.S. market of 3.25
million metric tons last year, will defend itself at a hearing
at the U.S. Trade Department July 23, said Mehmet Zeren, head of
the Turkish Steel Pipe Manufacturers’ Association in Istanbul.  Oil-pipe makers led by  United States Steel Corp. (X)  filed a
complaint against rivals abroad who they say sell below cost in
the U.S. market and in some cases benefit from state subsidies.
The complaint filed with the International Trade Commission in
Washington July 2 names Turkey,  India ,  South Korea ,  Saudi
Arabia , the  Philippines ,  Taiwan ,  Thailand , Ukraine and Vietnam.  “We are hoping that Turkey will be excluded from the
investigation because we are not subsidized and we have no
dumping,” Zeren said by phone today. “We will try to explain
that using Eximbank loans to finance trade is not a subsidy.”  South Korea and Vietnam have 25 percent and 8 percent of
the annual U.S. steel-pipe market, respectively, he said. Use is
rising as U.S. shale gas expansion spurs demand, Zeren said.  Turkish producers including  Borusan Mannesmann Boru Sanayi
& Ticaret AS (BRSAN) ,  Erbosan Erciyas Boru Sanayii & Ticaret AS (ERBOS)  and
 Ozbal Celik Boru Sanayi Ticaret & Taahhut AS (OZBAL)  will likely produce
4.45 million tons of steel pipes this year, up from 4.25 million
tons valued at about $5 billion in 2012, he said.  Turkey plans to export 45 percent of its production this
year, an increase from 43 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 