-- Turkey Lira Strengthens as Bernanke Backs Stimulus; Yields Climb
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-07-11T12:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/turkey-lira-strengthens-as-bernanke-backs-stimulus-yields-climb.html
Turkey ’s lira gained after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. economy continues
to require stimulus, boosting risk appetite. Bonds declined on
speculation Turkey will have to raise interest rates.  The Turkish currency gained 0.4 percent to 1.9401 per
dollar at 2:31 p.m. in Istanbul after earlier rising as much as
1.4 percent, the biggest advance since August 2012. Data showing
the current account deficit widened more than expected in May
helped pare the gain. Yields on benchmark two-year notes rose
seven basis points to 9.32 percent, heading for the highest
close since June last year. The  Borsa Istanbul National 100 (XU100) 
index climbed 2 percent to 72,470.22, heading for the biggest
advance since July 4.  “Highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the  U.S. economy ,” Bernanke said
yesterday in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . That provided some relief
to Turkish markets, which had been among the worst-hit by
speculation the Fed would begin to withdraw stimulus, spurring
the Turkish central bank to intervene in the  currency market  to
prevent losses.  “The currency may come under pressure again,” Ipek Ozkardeskaya, a currency strategist at Swissquote Bank SA in
Geneva, said in e-mailed comments today. “Raising interest
rates would be a safer, cleaner and more appropriate tactic”
than interventions to prevent lira losses, she said.  The bank’s rate-setting committee next meets on July 23.  Record Low  The lira hit a record low of 1.9740 per dollar on July 8,
when the central bank sold $2.25 billion from its reserves, the
most in a day since it started sales in 2001. The bank has sold
$6.2 billion for liras since June 11, including $1.3 billion
yesterday.  As Bernanke’s remarks took pressure off emerging markets,
the Turkish central bank today ended its four-day streak of
withholding funding at its benchmark  interest rate  to tighten
liquidity, providing banks with 9 billion liras ($4.64 billion)
at 4.5 percent.  “It looks like the bank views the currency turmoil as a
short-term issue,” Ozkardeskaya said. “But this may trigger
concern that its foreign currency reserves may be depleted.”  The central bank had $105.6 billion of gross foreign
currency reserves as of June 28.  The Turkish currency depreciated 8.1 percent against the
dollar this year, the fifth-worst performance among 20 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The lira has retreated
7.1 percent against the euro this year.  Turkey’s current account deficit widened an annual 42
percent to $7.52 billion in May, according to central bank data
released today. The gap was expected at $6.8 billion, according
to the average of 9 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Unless global financial developments turn in favor of
 emerging markets , a policy stance that relies on foreign
currency sales against capital outflows is unsustainable,”
Deniz Cicek, an economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in
a report e-mailed today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  