-- Turkey Stocks Cheapest in Year While Profit Growth Outpaces
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-07-12T15:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/turkey-stocks-cheapest-in-year-as-profit-growth-outpaces-peers.html
Turkish stocks, the best in the
world last year, are now the cheapest in 12 months as political
protests and capital flight curb investor appetite for equities.  The  Borsa Istanbul-100 Index (XU100) , which had lost 22 percent
into a  bear market  from a record on May 22, traded yesterday at
9.2 times the next year’s estimated earnings, near the lowest
since July 2012. That compares with 9.9 times for the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index and 14 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 .
While shares fall, profits are estimated to climb 5 percent in
the next 12 months, compared with a 7 percent drop for the MSCI
EM EMEA Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Protests against the government and indications that the
 Federal Reserve  may start reducing asset purchases sent  Turkiye
Is Bankasi (ISCTR) , the nation’s largest bank, down 35 percent since May
22 and Istanbul-based  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL)  24 percent
lower. While bears say stocks are poised to drop further as
elections loom, bulls point to economic growth that’s more than
double that in  Europe , the Mideast and  Africa .  “For investors whose investment horizon is at least one
year, there are attractive stocks,” Aziz Unan, a portfolio
manager who helps oversee $750 million in assets including
Turkish shares, at Renaissance Asset Managers, said in e-mailed
comments on July 9. “We may gradually increase our exposure in
shares that have become cheaper.”  Lira Weakens  Demonstrations were ignited in May by police tear-gassing
Istanbul’s Gezi Park, occupied by people who opposed plans to
tear it down. Unrest spread in June as protesters accused Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s Islamic-rooted government of
adopting an increasingly autocratic style, condoning police
brutality and curbs on alcohol sales. Protests calmed since
police forced protesters from the park and adjacent Taksim
Square and Huseyin Celik, a government spokesman, said June 19
that the city’s population will vote on the park project.  Erdogan, who was first elected prime minister in March
2003, has described the protesters as pawns of an “interest-rate lobby” whose goal is the destruction of a government that
reflects the national will.  The lira depreciated 4.2 percent against the dollar since
May 31, the third-worst performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on  two-year benchmark
notes  surged 34 basis points to 9.59 percent on yesterday, up
from a record low of 4.79 percent on May 17.  Foreign investors in Turkey’s stock market posted net
withdrawals of $98 million in the week ended July 5, their sixth
consecutive week of selling that totaled $1.3 billion, central
bank data published July 11 showed.  ‘Empty Half’  “Fear being the main driver, investors tend to look at the
empty half of the glass,” Cemal Demirtas, head of research at
Ata Invest in Istanbul, said in a phone interview on July 10.
“We prefer to look beyond that, as Turkey’s fundamental picture
remains essentially unchanged.”  Turkey, which is rated an investment grade Baa3 at Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- at  Fitch Ratings , has a single-party
government that can make rapid decisions, a central bank with a
successful track record and fiscal discipline, Demirtas said.
Ata Invest expects the benchmark index to reach 90,000 in the
next 12 months, implying a gain of 25 percent from the 71,789.85
close yesterday.  Turkey’s economy grew 3 percent in the first three months
of the year, the 14th consecutive quarter of expansion and
compared with 1.4 percent in EMEA. Gross domestic product
probably increased another 3 percent in the second quarter, in
contrast to a contraction of 0.9 percent for the Euro Area,
according to the median of four and 35 analysts’ estimates,
respectively, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Bearish’  Prospects that the Fed may start scaling back its bond-buying program this year are making other fund managers more
cautious. Melih Onder, chairman of Istanbul-based asset manager
Logos Portfoy Yonetimi AS, said the 40 million-lira fund he
manages lowered the weighting of equities to about 15 percent
from as much as 25 percent in response to comments by Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on June 19.  “I’m bearish on equities for the next few months,” Onder
said in a phone interview on June 26. “To increase equity
investments, we have to feel that the accelerated selling has
completed its course -- that might take about three months.”  As Turkey moves closer to local and national elections, the
stock market may reflect that risk, Emre Akcakmak, who helps
manage about $600 million in Turkish equities at East Capital in
 Stockholm , said by phone on June 26. Erdogan is considering
holding local, presidential and general elections in 2014 rather
than over the next two years, Milliyet newspaper reported in
June.  “Political risk is inherent in emerging markets,”
Akcakmak said.  Stock Rout  The stock market rout pushed the average estimated price-to-earnings ratio of companies on the benchmark below the three-year average multiple of 9.8, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Isbank, which boosted  net income  by an annual 45 percent to
1.02 billion liras ($521 million) in the first quarter, trades
at a forward price-to-earnings multiple of 6.6. Sabanci Holding,
which controls  Carrefour SA (CA) ’s local joint venture, shares fetch
8.9 times estimated earnings, down from 12 on May 22. The
company’s profit surged 93 percent to 570.7 million liras in the
first three months.  Earnings multiples compare with 11 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Banks Index and 14 for Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour.  ‘Hard Working’  “Over the longer term, Turkey has a lot of positive
fundamentals such as a young, well-educated population, good and
improving infrastructure, hard working people and a strategic
location,” Patrick Lemmens, a senior  money manager  who helps
oversee about $13 billion at Robeco Groep in Rotterdam, said on
June 27.  About 40 percent of Turkey’s 75.6 million people are
between 15 years and 40 years old, according to the Turkish
Statistics Office in Ankara.  Lemmens said he raised the share of Turkish stocks in
Robeco’s 170 million-euro ($218 million) global financials fund,
without providing further details. “There is some political
noise, but ultimately  Turkey  is a democracy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  