-- Warren Joins McCain to Push New Glass-Steagall Law for Banks
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-07-12T13:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/warren-joins-mccain-to-push-new-glass-steagall-bill-for-banks.html
U.S. Senator  Elizabeth Warren  and a
bipartisan group of lawmakers have introduced a bill aimed at
re-creating the Glass-Steagall Act, the Depression-era measure
that separated commercial and  investment banking .  “It will take a lot of tools to get rid of too-big-to-fail, but one of them ought to be that if you want to do high-stakes gambling, good on you, but you do not get access to
people’s checking accounts and savings accounts,” Warren, a
Massachusetts Democrat, told Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook 
in an interview today.  The bill sponsored by Warren along with Senators  John McCain , an Arizona Republican,  Maria Cantwell , a Washington
Democrat, and Angus King, a Maine independent, would separate
traditional banks that offer checking and savings accounts
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. from “riskier
financial institutions.” The latter category includes companies
involved in investment banking, insurance, swaps dealing, hedge
funds and private equity, according to the lawmakers’ statement
released yesterday.  Warren, who announced plans for the bill at a hearing on
Dodd-Frank Act implementation, told regulators testifying before
the Senate Banking Committee that she didn’t expect them to back
her right away.  “Based on what the regulators did to Glass-Steagall over
the last 30 years, I don’t expect anyone on this panel will jump
and endorse the new Glass-Steagall bill,” Warren told officials
from the Treasury Department,  Federal Reserve  and other
agencies. “Even so we’re going to keep pushing for it.”  Previous Attempts  Previous Senate attempts to revive Glass-Steagall, which
was repealed in 1999, or otherwise limit the size of banks have
failed to gain enough support to become law.  The Senate turned back an attempt to impose limits on the
size of banks during debate over legislation that became the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act. An amendment sponsored by two Democrats,
 Sherrod Brown  of Ohio and Ted Kaufman of Delaware, was defeated
61-33.  McCain, a former Republican presidential candidate, said
he’s reintroducing a measure to restore the firewall because
it’s needed to protect taxpayers and restore confidence in the
financial system.  “Since core provisions of the  Glass-Steagall Act  were
repealed in 1999, shattering the wall dividing commercial banks
and investment banks, a culture of dangerous greed and excessive
risk-taking has taken root in the banking world,” McCain said
in the statement. McCain in 1999 voted for the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which overturned Glass-Steagall.  Industry Support  The idea of restoring the law has also gained some support
from Wall Street veterans such as Sanford “Sandy” Weill, whose
creation of Citigroup Inc. ushered in the era of U.S. bank
conglomerates in the 1990s. Weill has said ending Glass-Steagall’s prohibitions was a mistake.  “What we should probably do is go and split up investment
banking from banking,” Weill said in July 25, 2012, CNBC
interview. “Have banks do something that’s not going to risk
the taxpayer dollars, that’s not going to be too big to fail.”  Weill helped engineer the 1998 merger of Travelers Group
Inc. and Citicorp, a deal that led Congress to repeal the law.
The New York-based company became the biggest lender in the
world before taking a $45 billion taxpayer bailout in 2008 to
avoid collapse.  More Complicated  Richard Parsons , who in 2012 ended a 16-year tenure on
Citigroup’s board, said in April that the repeal of Glass-Steagall made the business more complicated and contributed to
the financial crisis. Former Citicorp Chief Executive Officer
 John Reed  apologized in 2009 for his role in building Citigroup
and said banks that big should be divided into separate parts.  Some U.S. regulators back the idea of splitting up banks or
limiting their size.  Thomas Hoenig , the FDIC’s vice chairman,
has said FDIC-backed banks should only offer “core services.”
 Daniel Tarullo , the Federal Reserve governor in charge of bank
supervision, has urged caution on the question of breakups, but
has also said rules could link caps on bank size to the size of
the  U.S. economy .  Other lawmakers have introduced legislation designed to
limit bank size without restoring Glass-Steagall. For instance,
Brown, an Ohio Democrat, and  David Vitter , a Louisiana
Republican, have offered a bill that would impose a 15 percent
capital requirement on the largest banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  