-- Wildfires Spur Surging Los Angeles Power Costs: Energy Markets
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-07-12T14:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/wildfires-spur-surging-los-angeles-power-costs-energy-markets.html
Los Angeles wholesale power will
probably reach record premiums versus prices in  San Francisco 
this summer as the long-distance transmission lines needed to
make up for reduced local capacity are threatened by wildfires.  Southern  California  power spreads have already jumped to
their widest of the year as the region has been unable to
replace the generating capacity lost with the permanent shutdown
of the San Onofre nuclear plant. Hydroelectric output, which
normally supplies about 15 percent of the state’s power, has
dropped to the lowest level since 2008.  Several large fires have caused “reliability challenges,”
the California Independent System Operator Corp., which manages
the state’s power grid, said in a report dated July 8. A fire
that spread across almost 30,000 acres north of  Los Angeles  last
month triggered “multiple forced outages” on lines that
connect to Northern California and the Pacific Northwest, the
ISO said.  “Location is everything in California,” Julien Dumoulin-Smith, an analyst with UBS AG in  New York , said in a June 14
telephone interview. “The problem is you have a constrained
area and retirements. It’s a positive driver for power prices.”  Power for August delivery at Southern California’s SP15
hub, which serves Los Angeles and  San Diego , was valued at
$52.75 a megawatt-hour yesterday, $4 more than Northern
California’s NP15 hub, according to broker prices compiled by
Bloomberg. That would be a record average for the peak-demand
month for power in the state. NP15 serves cities including San
Francisco.  Power Premium  SP15 traded at an  average premium  to the northern region of
$7.35 a megawatt-hour during the first six months of 2013, the
most since at least 2001, based on IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
data compiled by Bloomberg. The premium, which was up from $2.43
in the same period last year and the five-year average of $1.21,
traded at $3.80 yesterday.  The  spread  for spot prices widened to $11.55 a megawatt-hour on July 10, after the Diablo Canyon 2 nuclear reactor
northwest of Los Angeles tripped offline, ISO prices compiled by
Bloomberg show. An electrical disturbance on a 500-kilovolt line
caused the unit to shut, according to plant owner PG&E Corp. and
a U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission  report .  The price difference between the two hubs ballooned this
year as unusually low precipitation cut hydroelectric supplies.
 PATH 15 , the largest intrastate high-voltage corridor, has been
operating at reduced capacity since last August, limiting the
flow of power from north to south, according to YES Energy, a
power-market data provider based in Boulder,  Colorado .  Power Imports  PATH 15, a collection of three high-voltage lines, has only
made 58 percent of its capacity available to power suppliers
this year because of maintenance, according to YES and the
Western Area Power Administration in Lakewood, Colorado, which
holds a 10 percent stake in the system.  About a quarter of California’s electricity comes from
outside the state, delivered by long-distance lines that are
often in remote areas vulnerable to hot weather and wildfires. A
failure on a 500-kilovolt line between  Arizona  and  Southern
California  in September 2011 left more than a million people
without power for almost 12 hours.  The California ISO has warned that extreme heat in the San
Diego and Los Angeles metropolitan areas may prompt calls for
energy conservation to avoid blackouts, especially if wildfires
force transmission line outages.  More Wildfires  California firefighters have responded to about 3,500
wildfires this year, up from 2,400 fires in the same period in
2012 and 56 percent above the five-year average, Daniel Berlant,
a spokesman for the state Department of Forestry and Fire
Protection in  Sacramento , said by telephone yesterday.  “We’re not even into the busiest months yet,” he said.
“Typically, September and October are when we see the largest
and most destructive fires.”  The fire last month caused shutdowns on the 500-kilovolt
Midway-Vincent transmission lines connecting Northern and
Southern California, and the Pacific DC intertie linking
Southern California with the Pacific Northwest, Stephen Berberich, chief executive officer of the California ISO, said
in the July 9 report.  “It kind of shows how hair-raising the fire season may be
this year,” Berberich said yesterday at an ISO board of
governors meeting in Folsom, California. “This could be a long,
hot summer. Combine that with fires and we have a perfect mix
where we could have issues.”  Hydroelectric Impact  Abundant hydroelectric generation last year mitigated the
loss of the 2,200-megawatt San Onofre Generation Station,
located about midway between Los Angeles and San Diego. The
plant was shut in January 2012 after a radioactive leak and
unusual wear on steam generator tubes was discovered.  As of May 31,  reservoir storage  in California was 15
percent below average and precipitation was 25 percent lower
than the norm, the state water resources department said June 1.  “The snowpack is miserable this year,” Ted Thomas,
spokesman for the state Department of Water Resources, said by
telephone July 10 from Sacramento. “On April 1, when it’s
normally at its peak just before it begins to melt and run off
into reservoirs, it was less than 50 percent of the historical
average. And now, of course, it’s pretty much gone from the
mountains.”  The nuclear shutdown and below-average hydroelectric
generation will increase reliance on natural gas to produce
electricity, said  Stephen Schork , president of Schork Group
Inc., a consulting group in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .  New Plants  “It’s going to be a very volatile summer for power and gas
out there,” Schork said.  New generation from gas-fired plants such as the Walnut
Creek, Sentinel and El Segundo stations will be feeding supplies
onto the grid this summer, Berberich said.  “They are helpful but I don’t want to exaggerate how much
help that they have because they are outside of the specific
local area that San Onofre is in and they are still constrained
by transmission,” Berberich said in a June 7 media call.  Southern California power prices for the strongest demand
hours of the day, known as the on-peak period, will be 19
percent higher this summer than in 2012, after normalizing for
higher gas prices, Himali Parmar, a consultant with  ICF
International Inc. (ICFI)  in Fairfax,  Virginia , said in a June 27
report.  “Significant congestion” is expected on major
transmission routes in Southern California, including PATH 26
from the North and PATH 46 from west of the Colorado River,
causing regional prices to diverge, Parmar said.  Lost Generation  The region expects to face even lower production capacity
later in the decade because of environmental rules, according to
Caroline Choi, vice president of integrated planning and
environmental affairs for Southern California Edison, which has
4.9 million customers in central, coastal and southern
California.  “There are a number of coastal facilities that will be
retiring” as a result of state policy regulating the use of
water to cool  power plants , known as once-through cooling, Choi
said at a June 17 hearing in Sacramento.  Between the units shut by the regulations and the
retirement of the San Onofre plant, Southern California Edison’s
territory stands to lose almost 9,000 megawatts of generation,
representing more than one-third of the region’s  peak demand ,
she said.  Transmission Opportunities  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , which co-owns 72 percent of PATH 15,
sees an opportunity to build new transmission lines as power
plants shut and the state shifts toward solar and other
renewable sources, Phil Grigsby, head of commercial transmission
at Duke in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , said in a June 11
interview.  The California ISO’s most recent transmission analysis
shows the west Los Angeles region alone will need 3,000 to 4,600
megawatts of new generation to replace the power retired because
of the  water-use regulations .  Locating new plants and transmission to support them will
prove challenging, Choi said.  “The transmission system was built to move power from
costal into the populated areas,” she said. “Siting could face
opposition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 