-- WTI Crude Oil Futures Head for Third Weekly Advance
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-07-12T12:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/wti-oil-drops-a-second-day-on-rising-jobless-claims-iea-outlook.html
West Texas Intermediate crude headed
for a third weekly increase, its longest run of gains since May,
and is forecast to rise next week in a Bloomberg News survey
amid speculation U.S. stimulus measures will continue.  Futures climbed as much as 0.9 percent in New York, and are
on course for a 2.3 percent advance this week. U.S. crude
stockpiles shrank, a government report showed earlier this week,
while Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke called for
maintaining bond purchases to revive the economy. Crude
inventories fell by 9.87 million barrels last week, the Energy
Department said July 10.  Iraq  halted oil exports on its pipeline
to  Turkey  because of a fault, the North Oil Co. said.  “Investors have been relieved by the fact that
quantitative easing will not be unwound as fast as Bernanke had
indicated before,” said Hans van Cleef, an energy economist at
ABN Amro Bank in Amsterdam. “As long as the Fed doesn’t signal
that will change, that will keep prices elevated for the time
being.”  WTI for August delivery rose as much as 96 cents to $105.87
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, and was at $105.60 at 1:35 p.m. London time. The
volume of all futures traded was 26 percent above the 100-day
average. The contract fell $1.61 yesterday to $104.91.  Brent for August settlement added 57 cents to $108.30 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade was at a premium of $2.70 to WTI
contracts. The spread was $1.99 on July 10, the narrowest
differential, based on closing prices, since November 2010.  Iraq Pipeline  Pumping on Iraq’s pipeline to the Turkish port of Ceyhan
will resume in the next few hours as repair teams work near
Mosul to fix the line, according to a statement from state-run
North Oil. The pipeline has a nameplate capacity of 1.65 million
barrels a day, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Half of 42 analysts and traders polled by Bloomberg News
estimated WTI will climb through July 19. Eighteen respondents
in the Bloomberg survey, or 43 percent, predicted a drop and
three projected no change. Last week, 58 percent in the survey
said prices would decline.  WTI slipped earlier today after Chinese Finance Minister
 Lou Jiwei  signaled the world’s second-biggest economy may expand
less than the government’s target this year and that growth as
low as 6.5 percent may be tolerable in the future.  While the government in March set a 2013  growth  goal of 7.5
percent, Lou said he’s confident in achieving a 7 percent rate
this year. He spoke yesterday at the U.S.-China Strategic and
Economic Dialogue in  Washington .  Non-OPEC Outlook  Oil production in non-OPEC countries will increase at the
fastest pace in two decades next year, the International Energy
Agency said yesterday in its first monthly forecast for 2014.  Supplies from outside the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will increase by 1.3 million barrels a day
in 2014 amid booming output in North America, reducing the need
for shipments from the producer group, the Paris-based energy
adviser said. Global oil consumption will expand by 1.2 million
barrels a day in 2014, up from a forecast 930,000 this year,
according to the IEA.  “Demand next year will be weak and supply can adequately
cope,” said David Lennox, a resource analyst at Fat Prophets in
Sydney. “Investors appear to be squaring off after what has
been a very good week for the market.”  OPEC, which pumps about 40 percent of the world’s crude,
will boost exports by the most this year as summer demand for
motor fuels in the Northern Hemisphere peaks, according to Oil
Movements. Ten members of the group will ship 24.32 million
barrels a day in the four weeks ending July 27, up 630,000
barrels from 23.69 million in the period to June 29, the tanker
tracker in Halifax,  England , said in an e-mailed report
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  