-- Yankees Win as Overbay, Cano Hit Home Runs; Mets Defeat Giants
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-11T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/yankees-win-as-overbay-cano-hit-home-runs-mets-defeat-giants.html
Lyle Overbay hit a grand slam and
Robinson Cano had a three-run homer in the  New York  Yankees’ 8-1
victory against the Kansas City Royals, while Zack Wheeler led
the Mets to a 7-2 win at the San Francisco Giants.  The Yankees, plagued by injuries all season, lost center
fielder Brett Gardner with a bruised right leg after designated
hitter Travis Hafner exited with a bruised left foot last night.  Gardner opened the scoring in the first inning on a wild
pitch by loser Wade Davis. Cano homered in the third and Overbay
hit his home run in the sixth to give the Yankees an 8-0
advantage. Eric Hosmer hit a run-scoring double in the eighth
for the Royals’ only score.  Ivan Nova (4-2) allowed one run on five hits in eight
innings while striking out six as the Yankees broke a three-game
losing streak. Davis (4-8) surrendered eight runs on six hits in
five innings.  The Yankees (49-42) are in fourth place in the five-team
American League East.  At AT&T Park in San Francisco, Wheeler (3-1) allowed one
run in seven innings as the Mets completed a three-game series
sweep of the Giants.  Wheeler, making his first career start against San
Francisco, was traded by the Giants to the Mets two seasons ago
for Carlos Beltran. He was a first-round draft pick of the
Giants, sixth overall, in 2009.  Wheeler, 23, also had a run-scoring double and scored a run
for the Mets (40-48), who have won four straight games. The
Giants (40-50) have lost four in a row.  Giants starting pitcher Matt Cain (5-6) lasted two-thirds
of an inning, allowing three runs on two hits and three walks.  The Mets are fourth in the National League East, 10 1/2
games behind the Atlanta Braves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  