-- Yen May Drop to 115 by Year-End on Fed Taper, Commerzbank Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-07-11T17:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/yen-may-drop-to-115-by-year-end-on-fed-taper-commerzbank-says.html
The yen will decline to 115 per
dollar by the end of the year amid mounting speculation the U.S.
Federal Reserve will slow monthly asset purchases, according to
Peter Kinsella of Commerzbank AG.  “We’re going to see the yen trade at a very weak basis in
the coming years,” Kinsella, a senior currency strategist at
Commerzbank in London, said in an interview on  Bloomberg Radio ’s
“The First Word” with Bob Moon.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has called for maintaining
accommodation even as the minute of policy makers’ June meeting,
released yesterday, show the central bank still debating whether
to stop bond buying in 2013. Many members of the  Federal Open
Market Committee  are looking for further improvement in the U.S.
labor market, according to the minutes.  Japan ’s currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 99.09 per
dollar in  New York  after climbing to 98.27, its strongest level
in two weeks. The yen increased 0.3 percent to 128.97 per euro.  “The outlook from here is going to be data-dependent,”
Kinsella said. “What we’re going to get at the next Fed meeting
is a little bit more clarity regarding what they’re going to do.
We’re going to see the tapering probably between September and
December of this year.”  The yen weakened beyond the 100 per dollar threshold this
year for the first time since 2009 as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
and  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda implemented an
unprecedented bond-buying program to help combat years of
deflation. Japan’s monetary policy, aimed at reaching 2 percent
inflation in two years, has weakened the yen 12.5 percent in
2013, the second-most out of 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  