-- Teen Died Because Zimmerman Profiled Him, Jury Is Told
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   B o y d
-- 2013-07-12T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-11/zimmerman-jury-can-consider-manslaughter-in-martin-shooting.html
Trayvon Martin is dead because
George Zimmerman profiled the teenager as a criminal, a
prosecutor said in closing arguments in the  Florida  trial of the
Neighborhood Watch volunteer charged with second-degree murder.  “He’s dead not just because another man made those
assumptions but because the man acted on those assumptions,”
Assistant State Attorney Bernie de la Rionda told jurors
yesterday in Sanford, Florida. “Unfortunately, because those
assumptions were wrong, Trayvon Benjamin Martin no longer walks
upon this earth.”  Zimmerman, 29, told the police he acted in self-defense on
Feb. 26, 2012, after Martin, 17, punched him in the face,
knocked him to the ground and threatened to kill him. At the
time of the shooting, Martin was carrying a can of iced tea, a
bag of Skittles and $40 in cash.  “Is it really self-defense when you follow somebody?” de
la Rionda said, referring to Zimmerman’s admission in a recorded
call to police the night of the shooting that he was following
the youth.  The defense is scheduled to make its closing arguments
today.  The killing triggered protests in several U.S. cities after
officials initially declined to arrest Zimmerman. The furor
centered on the racial aspects of the shooting -- Martin was
black while Zimmerman’s father is white and his mother is
Hispanic.  Obama Comment  The shooting spurred President  Barack Obama  to comment that
if he had a son, the child would have looked like Martin.  In the absence of eyewitness accounts that Zimmerman was
the aggressor, de la Rionda used Zimmerman’s own comments to
police to portray him as a vigilante whose story about what
happened the night of the shooting can’t be trusted.  “Unfortunately there are only two people who knew what
happened out there and he, the defendant, made sure the other
person couldn’t come to this courtroom,” de la Rionda said.  For about 2 1/2 hours, de la Rionda took jurors through the
government’s case. He showed them pictures of Martin, both alive
and dead, and he brought out the gun Zimmerman used to kill him.  He played video recordings of interviews Zimmerman gave to
police and Fox News host Sean Hannity, pausing them throughout
to point out inconsistencies or implausibility in Zimmerman’s
version of the shooting.  Police Wannabe  De la Rionda portrayed Zimmerman as a police officer
wannabe with martial arts training who followed Martin through
the gated community. He played Zimmerman’s call to police to
report Martin, highlighting Zimmerman’s remarks that criminals
always get away.  “He wanted to make sure Trayvon Martin didn’t get out of
the neighborhood,” de la Rionda said. “The rest of them would
flee and this defendant was sick and tired of it. That night he
decided he would be what he wanted to be: a police officer.”  Circuit Judge Debra Nelson yesterday denied a defense
request that the six-woman jury consider only the second-degree
murder charge when it deliberates. Jurors may also consider a
verdict on the lesser charge of manslaughter, she ruled.  Second-degree murder carries the possibility of a life
sentence. A manslaughter conviction might result in 30 years in
prison, according to Zimmerman’s attorney, Mark O’Mara.  De la Rionda urged jurors to focus on Zimmerman’s actions
just after the shooting, noting that he never attempted to
revive Martin and then remarked to a police officer who he asked
to call his wife, “just tell her I killed him.”  “Those acts, those actions, speak volumes of what occurred
that Sunday evening,” he said.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at
   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Boyd in 18th Judicial Circuit Court
in Sanford, Florida.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 