-- Florida’s Voter Harassment Campaign
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-10T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/-election-fraud-is-just-another-way-of-playing-hardball.html
Florida  is locked in battle with the
U.S.  Justice Department  over the state’s efforts to scrub its
voter rolls.  At Republican Governor  Rick Scott ’s direction, the state
cross-referenced driver’s licenses and voter registrations to
compile a list of more than 180,000 Floridians it said were
suspect. It then sent to county election supervisors a first cut
of more than 2,600 registrants. They were to be notified by
certified mail and given 30 days to prove their citizenship
before being stricken from the rolls and barred from voting this
fall. An analysis by the  Miami Herald  found the vast majority
were, in fact, citizens (including 91-year-old Bill Internicola,
a World War II veteran born in  New York  who was none too happy
about his civic demotion).  Last week, a federal court in Tallahassee blocked the state
from imposing new restrictions on voter registration, including
a law requiring registration forms be submitted to state
officials within 48 hours. The law previously had allowed 10
days for submissions. Florida was never able to explain why a
two-day rush was suddenly necessary, particularly when voter
registration is often conducted by volunteers.  On May 31, the Justice Department said the purge of voter
rolls appeared to be illegal, first because it violates the
Voting Rights Act and second because it is being conducted,
contrary to federal law,  within 90 days  of Florida’s September
primary election. Meanwhile, the state association of county
election supervisors advised its 67 member counties to suspend
the purge due to the high rate of errors. Miami-Dade County, for
example, managed to find 13 registered voters who do not appear
to be citizens; it also found almost 500 others who are. The
Seminole County supervisor of elections, Mike Ertel, a
Republican, posted a  photo of himself  on Twitter holding the U.S.
passport of one targeted voter.  Why they’re going through  all this trouble  in the first
place may seem mysterious. Despite vigorous efforts of fraud
hunters, and aggressive work in more than a dozen states to
encumber voting or registration, evidence of fraud remains
vanishingly scarce. And the penalties for committing such fraud
are already severe. The answer is these efforts aren’t really
intended to root out fraud -- they’re intended to discourage
voting.  Voter identification may well be the most polarizing matter
in U.S. legislatures. In an  amicus brief  contesting an Indiana
voter ID law, a group of historians and scholars calculated that
from 2005 to 2007 at least 10 bills requiring voter ID were
introduced by Republicans in various state legislatures. In the
combined votes for the bills, 95.3 percent of 1,222 Republicans
supported voter ID; just 2.1 percent of 796 Democrats did. The
disparity is not a mystery. The laws will make it more difficult
for some small but very real number of citizens -- almost all of
them poor -- to vote.  Florida insists all would be well if only the U.S.
Department of  Homeland Security  shared its database of people
who have entered the immigration system. But some of those
people, too, are U.S. citizens. The database was never devised
to match up with voter rolls. In any case, given the Obama
administration’s skepticism about the motives and legality of
the purge, such help is probably not forthcoming.  The rush to eliminate voter fraud rests largely on a
fallacy -- that illegal immigrants and others on the social and
political margins are engaged in deliberate fraud; that those
with the least social capital, least organizational capacity and
the most to lose -- voter fraud is a felony subject to
imprisonment and any illegal immigrant who commits it is subject
to deportation -- are actively subverting the system. And that
they’re doing it in such numbers as to sway an election.  “If you start focusing on this, it is pinpointed to the
major urban areas, to the inner cities,” former Republican
House Majority Leader  Dick Armey  told  Fox News  in 2010. Armey’s
statement, for which he provided no proof and was asked for none,
exposes the racial component -- which, because minorities vote
disproportionately for Democrats, is also the partisan component
-- of the effort better than anything we could say.  Undermining a citizen’s right to vote is an egregious
political act. If Governor Scott wants to chase fraud, he should
do so in a way that doesn’t make collateral damage of Florida
voters. Unfortunately, collateral damage seems to be the point
of the exercise.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on why  boring banking isn’t
safer ;  Mark Buchanan  on  testosterone and trading ; William D.
Cohan on  watering down Dodd-Frank ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  November’s
election milestones ;  Simon Johnson  on  why the U.S. needs another
systemic-risk watchdog ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  the growing capitalism-
democracy split ; William Pesek on  Greece’s effect on Asia ; Red
Jahncke on  a German exit from the euro ; Jay S. Fishman on  how to
incubate small businesses.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 