-- ‘Madagascar 3’ Is Weekend’s Top Film With $60.4 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-10T18:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/-madagascar-3-is-weekend-s-top-film-with-60-4-million.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG (DWA) ’s
“Madagascar 3” opened as the top film at U.S. box offices with
$60.4 million in U.S. and Canadian theaters, edging out
“Prometheus,” a science-fiction thriller from  Ridley Scott .  “Prometheus,” from News Corp.’s Twentieth Century Fox,
the weekend’s only other new film in wide release, had $50
million in ticket sales, researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office
said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Madagascar 3” sales beat the $53.8 million estimate of
Box Office Mojo although were less than the $63.1 million
opening of “Madagascar: Escape 2  Africa ,” released in 2008.
The animated 3-D movie received a marketing boost from a popular
Nickelodeon TV show based on the penguin characters and ads
featuring  Chris Rock  as a zebra performing a circus tune, Ben
Carlson, co-founder of the research firm Fizziology, said in a
June 7 interview. The film has little competition for family
audiences until Disney’s “Brave” on June 22.  “It’s a very solid opening and I expect this to play well
over the next several weeks as most of DreamWorks films usually
do,” said  Paul Sweeney , a media and entertainment analyst for
Bloomberg Industries. “You usually find animated movies do well
when the kids are out of school, so they can go again and again
and again.”  Before the weekend, Los Angeles-based Fox ranked sixth in
2012 revenue with $416.5 million in domestic ticket sales.  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  was first with $772.2 million.  Detour to France  In “Madagascar 3,” featuring the voices of  Ben Stiller ,
Rock and Jada Pinkett-Smith, Alex the lion and his citified
animal friends leave Africa to return to their home in New
York’s Central Park Zoo. During a detour to  France , they join a
circus to escape the clutches of a relentless animal control
officer.  “Prometheus” follows a group of explorers who travel to a
distant planet to investigate evidence of alien life forms. What
they discover may threaten all of humanity. The film, inspired
by Scott’s 1979 horror film “Alien,” was expected to generate
$55.5 million in sales, the estimate of researcher Box Office
Mojo. Events in the movie lead into the storyline of “Alien,”
about space travelers who inadvertently bring a deadly reptilian
creature onto their ship and stars  Charlize Theron , Noomi Rapace
and  Michael Fassbender .  ‘Snow White’ Sags  Among returning films, “ Snow White  and the Huntsman,”
 Universal Pictures ’ action-adventure take on the classic fairy
tale, dropped to third place from first with sales of $23
million. The film is a dark retelling of the story about a
jealous, aging queen who plots against a young beauty. Kristen Stewart stars as Snow White and Chris Hemsworth plays the hunter
who helps her. Theron portrays the queen who preys on the young
women as a means of preserving her own beauty.  The 3-D “Men in Black 3” was 4th with $13.5 million in
sales. The movie stars  Will Smith  and Tommy Lee Jones as special
agents charged with managing Earth’s secret alien population.
Smith’s character, Agent J, travels back in time to prevent a
villain’s attempt to change history. To accomplish his mission,
he must work with a younger version of Jones’s character, played
by  Josh Brolin .  Disney’s superhero film “Marvel’s the Avengers” was 5th
with $10.8 million. The movie features a collection of Marvel
heroes, including  Iron Man  and The Hulk, who unite to battle an
army of alien invaders led by the Norse god Loki. Robert Downey Jr. stars. The movie has taken in $571.9 million in domestic
sales since it opened on May 4.  ‘Battleship’ Slows  “Battleship” dropped to 8th place from 4th with sales of
$2.3 million. The film has taken in $59.8 million in domestic
sales since opening in the U.S. on May 18. Taylor Kitsch stars
as a U.S. Navy officer who helps lead a sea battle against
invading aliens.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 30 percent to
$172 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
film sales this year have risen 9.9 percent to $4.7 billion,
with attendance up 12.4 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for June
8 and June 9 and estimates for today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  