-- Making Banking Boring Won’t Make It Safer
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-10T22:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/making-banking-boring-is-the-wrong-way-to-make-it-safer.html
If only banking were  boring  again,
as it was from the end of World War II to about 1980, our
financial system and economy would be in much better shape, goes
the refrain ever since  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said it had a $2
billion trading loss.  Out with the reckless 20-somethings making millions and
back to the safe but dull 3-6-3 business model: Pay depositors 3
percent interest, lend at 6 percent, pocket the difference and
hit the golf course by 3 p.m.  Forget about it. The notion that dull-equals-safe springs
from a misconception about what banks do. Banking, by its
nature, is a risky endeavor. Even the most plain-vanilla banks
extend credit and hope to get repaid in the unknowable future.
It’s a dicey business and always has been.  What’s more, to re-create the banking industry of the
postwar age is a nonstarter. Banks grew along with American
corporations as they diversified, spanned the nation, branched
out overseas and turned to arcane financial tools to manage
their affairs. U.S. banks kept pace, culminating in the lifting
in 1999 of the Depression-era restrictions of the  Glass-Steagall
Act , which had separated commercial banks from their securities
businesses.  Assigning Blame  It is this  separation  that former Harvard Law School
professor and Democratic U.S. Senate candidate  Elizabeth Warren ,
among others, would like to see restored in the belief that it
was losses from investment banking that triggered the financial
crisis. Banks would then go back to the mundane business of
collecting deposits, making loans and providing services to
their customers; the roulette players of  Wall Street  would be on
their own and pose less of a threat to the rest of us.  Yet the bulk of the losses for banks during the financial
crisis came from lending, much of it tied to residential real
estate. The biggest failures -- Wachovia, Washington Mutual and
IndyMac -- were the result of boring banking. They misjudged the
housing market, assuming that real estate  prices  would rise
forever. They made too many loans that borrowers couldn’t repay
and didn’t charge enough to compensate for the risks.  They went bust the same way banks have since time
immemorial. Bankers, like almost everyone else, got caught up in
what turned out to be a gigantic credit bubble. When it went
bust, losses from bad loans overwhelmed bank capital.  This should be of no surprise to anyone. The other major
postwar banking fiascos were also caused by bad loans, whether
to  Latin America  in the 1970s or the Texas oil patch and
commercial real estate developers in southern  California  in the
1980s. Not to mention the savings and loan industry, which was
buried by an avalanche of soured loans.  OK, investment banking wasn’t blameless in the financial
crisis. Banks’ securities operations helped kick the meltdown
into high gear by constructing securities and writing
derivatives contracts that no one could understand. Just as
indefensible were trades made with money backstopped by the
taxpayer-guaranteed federal deposit insurance fund. This
practice, the source of JPMorgan’s $2 billion trading loss,
would be barred by the Volcker rule provisions of the Dodd-Frank
Act of 2010, which has yet to be fully implemented. (A bit of
perspective: JPMorgan’s trading loss is dwarfed by the $12
billion in nonperforming assets -- mostly uncollectible loans
-- on its  books ).  Misjudging risk is what imperils a bank, whether through
making bad loans or money-losing trades. Well-crafted rules and
vigilant enforcement can help, though regulators are as likely
as bankers to miss excessive risk-taking or drop their guard
when industry lobbyists whine.  No Glamour  Bankers would surely resist being confined again to the
unglamorous side of the business, claiming that they can’t make
profits comparable to those in  investment banking . This was part
of the rationale for ending Glass-Steagall in the first place.  As appealing as it might sound, a measure as draconian as a
new Glass-Steagall isn’t in order. A better answer is for
investors to demand that banks offer superior performance across
all their lines of business, and if they don’t, shed those that
fail to measure up.  What’s more, building a business around lending is hardly
the road to ruin, provided the right procedures for  managing
risk  are in place. As Bloomberg News reported last week, U.S.
Bancorp had the highest risk-adjusted returns among 24 of the
nation’s biggest banks in the  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)  U.S. Bancorp
eschews investment banking, unlike JPMorgan and Bank of America
Corp., which ranked 16th and last, respectively, in the
analysis.  JPMorgan’s dismal ranking raises an intriguing question
that in years past was asked of Citigroup Inc.: As an
organization, has it become too sprawling and complicated to
manage the risks it assumes? If the answer is yes, the bank
should either shrink or boost its capital to provide a bulwark
against losses.  We think it’s a wise idea for all of the nation’s banks to
hold a good deal more capital than now required. The  Federal
Reserve  is leaning in this direction, and has called for banks
to hew to the international guidelines known as Basel III. This
requires banks to accumulate capital equal to 7 percent of
assets by 2019, with the biggest firms holding an additional 2.5
percent.  Even this may not be enough to ensure the safety of the
financial system in another crisis. To weather a meltdown
comparable to that of 2008, banks might need to have capital of
as much as 20 percent. To ensure that they get there, the Fed
should be skeptical of demands by banks to use their retained
earnings to increase dividends or buy back more of their shares
on the open market.  Capital is what stands between a bank and insolvency. It’s
what makes a bank safer. Going back to boring doesn’t.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on  voter registration in
Florida ;  Mark Buchanan  on  testosterone and trading ; William D.
Cohan on  watering down Dodd-Frank ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  November’s
election milestones ;  Simon Johnson  on  why the U.S. needs another
systemic-risk watchdog ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  the growing capitalism-
democracy split ; William Pesek on  Greece’s effect on Asia ; Red
Jahncke on  a German exit from the euro ; Jay S. Fishman on  how to
incubate small businesses.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 