-- Assad Forces Bomb Homs as International Community Seeks Solution
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-06-10T10:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/assad-forces-bomb-homs-as-international-community-seeks-solution.html
Syrian government forces shelled the
city of Homs after killing nearly 100 people yesterday as
Russia warned that  Syria  was sliding into a full-scale civil
war.  About 96 people were killed by Syrian security forces
yesterday, the  Local Coordination Committees , an activist group,
said on its website today. The Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights said about 83 people were killed across Syria, including
29 in Homs, where Syrian forces attacked rebel neighborhoods
using shells and heavy machine guns, according to an e-mailed
statement from the U.K.-based group.  The international community is trying to prevent the 15-
month conflict from intensifying as the uprising against
President Bashar al-Assad’s government deteriorates into
sectarian violence. Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
warned yesterday that the threat of civil war reinforced the
“urgent” need for an international conference to pressure both
sides of the conflict.  The Syrian National Council, an opposition umbrella group,
elected Abdulbaset Sieda as its new leader after Burhan
Ghalioun’s resignation last month, according to a statement
posted on the council’s Facebook page.  Civil War  United Nations-Arab League special envoy  Kofi Annan  warned
at the UN on June 7 that Syria was headed toward a future of
“brutal repression, massacres, sectarian violence and even all-
out civil war.” Privately, he told the 15-member  Security
Council  that his efforts to bring about peace can’t be open-
ended and international consultations must yield results,
according to diplomats who were present and described the
remarks on condition of anonymity.  “The civil war has already started,”  Theodore Karasik ,
director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East
and Gulf Military Analysis, said in a phone interview today.
“It began with the first massacre, and has intensified with the
second.”  United Nations ’ observers reached on June 8 the site of a
reported massacre in Syria, where they found evidence of
killings in the now-abandoned farming village of Mazraat al-
Qubair. As many as 78 people were killed by forces loyal to
Assad in the village set amid corn fields, activists said.  The Qubair attack follows the massacre of 108 people,
including 49 children, in Houla May 25 in one of the worst
atrocities of the 15-month uprising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  