-- Aston Martin Poised to Introduce Successor to Flagship DBS Cars
-- B y   Y o u n g - S a m   C h o
-- 2012-06-10T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/aston-martin-poised-to-introduce-successor-to-flagship-dbs-cars.html
Aston Martin , the 99-year-old U.K.
maker of luxury sports cars featured in James Bond movies, is
preparing to introduce a vehicle that will replace the flagship
line of DBS automobiles.  An announcement will soon be made and production will begin
at the end of the year, Michael van der Sande, the automaker’s
chief commercial officer, said in an interview in  Tokyo  on June
9. The  prototype vehicle  shown at last month’s Concorso
d’Eleganza Villa d’Este in  Italy  may preview “something that
might be to come,” he said, declining to provide details.  “We really see it as our 100th anniversary car that kind
of spells out our direction for the next century, in terms of
design, in terms of technology,” van der Sande said. “It’s an
important car for us.”  Closely held Aston Martin is counting on new models to
compete against  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Lamborghini and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s
Ferrari in luxury sports car sales. The Gaydon, England-based
carmaker is also seeking to bolster its dealership network in
China after lagging behind other automakers in the world’s
largest automobile market.  While Aston Martin periodically makes limited-edition
vehicles such as the 1.38 million-pound ($2.1 million) One-77
supercar and the 330,000-pound Zagato, the DBS successor is
important because the vehicle is among the company’s more
mainstream models, whose prices range from about 80,000 pounds
to 200,000 pounds, van der Sande said.  In China, Aston Martin is seeking to catch up to other
luxury sports car brands after starting a wholly owned unit in
the country last year, van der Sande said. The company plans to
double its number of dealers in the country in the next 6 to 12
months after tripling the number to 9 last year, he said.  ‘Growing Fast’  “We were very late to the party in  China ,” he said.
“It’s early days yet but we’re growing fast.”  The company is selling between 20 and 30 vehicles a month
in China, with the four-door Rapide being the most popular
model, putting Aston Martin “head to head” with Ferrari and
Lamborghini, said Matthew Bennett, regional director for Aston
Martin in the Asia Pacific. The company participated in 14 auto
shows in China in the first half of the year to promote its
brand, he said.  China sales will lead to higher second-half earnings
results for Aston Martin, whose debt is rated below investment
grade by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service, Felix Fischer, head of research at Lucror Analytics in  Singapore ,
wrote in a report last month. Fischer estimates earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization will increase 13
percent to 80.6 million pounds in 2012 as the number of vehicles
increases to 4,500.  ‘Sex on Wheels’  Van der Sande declined to provide financial forecasts,
discuss the status of any possible partnership negotiations or
say whether the company has made any progress in pursuing an
initial public offering of its stock. He was in Tokyo to open a
showroom in the city and to talk to prospective buyers of the
limited-edition Zagato.  Aston Martin, which will feature a vintage DB5 in the next
James Bond movie, is about to deliver its 77th and final One-77
and has four to five ideas for its next supercar, van der Sande
said. Still, that will have to wait until after the Zagato,
which will probably be sold out by the end of the year, he said.  “Zagato is an Italian-English definition of sex on
wheels,” van der Sande said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Young-Sam Cho in Seoul at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  