-- Australia’s Strong Economy Proving ‘Doomsayers’ Wrong, Swan Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-06-10T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/australia-s-strong-economy-proves-doomsayers-wrong-swan-says.html
Australia’s economic performance is
proving the “doomsayers” wrong, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said
ahead of a government conference this week to address challenges
including an elevated currency and uneven growth.  A 4.3 percent expansion in the first quarter from a year
earlier and the addition of 38,900 jobs in May were standout
achievements, Swan said in his weekly  economic note yesterday. 
Capitalizing on growth opportunities is a topic at Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard ’s economic forum in Brisbane on June
12-13, he said.  Public support for Gillard’s government isn’t getting a
lift from one of the fastest-growing economies in the developed
world, led by the resource-rich regions in the north and west.
 Consumer confidence  is subdued and her governing Labor Party
trails in opinion polls as tourism, manufacturing and retail
industries across the south and east struggle with the sustained
strength of the local currency.  “There are always those who are all too ready to talk down
our nation’s prospects,” Swan said. “Over the past week, the
doomsayers have been proved to be completely and absolutely
wrong.”  The Australian dollar rose 2.2 percent against the U.S.
currency last week, and has appreciated about 41 percent since
the start of 2009. The country’s investment pipeline of resource
projects is about A$500 billion ($496 billion).  Faster Growth  The mining boom is lifting gross domestic product.
 Australia ’s annual growth in the January-March period was the
fastest since the third quarter of 2007, a government report
showed June 6. Growth averaged over the past two quarters was
the fastest among countries with Group of 10 currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  The nation’s employment gains from January through May were
the most in five years, and the unemployment rate of 5.1 percent
in May is less than half the 11 percent level of joblessness in
the euro area.  Still, consumer confidence in May was near the lowest level
this year amid concern about the global economy stemming from
 Europe ’s fiscal crisis, according to a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and
Melbourne Institute survey.  The central bank chief on June 5 cited “precautionary
behavior” by consumers and businesses in explaining his fourth
interest-rate reduction since Nov. 1.  Australia’s central bank cut  interest rates  by 50 basis
points late last year and a further 75 points in the past two
meetings. At 3.5 percent, the overnight cash rate target is
still the highest among major developed economies.  ‘Half Full’  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens , in a
speech June 8, said the nature of public discussion about the
economy “is unrelentingly gloomy.” Even before recent events
in Europe, “we were firmly determined to see out glass as half
empty,” he said, adding that his view is “Australia’s glass is
at least half full.”  Stevens is scheduled to deliver remarks at Gillard’s forum
June 13. An attendees list distributed by her office shows
dozens of executives from government, labor unions, trade groups
and private industry, including RBA board member  John Edwards 
and the chief executive officers of companies including Westpac
and  Santos Ltd. (STO)   Government ministers have blamed political opponents for
perpetuating pessimism.  “We do have an opposition that is determined to talk the
economy down,” Trade Minister Craig Emerson said on Sky News
June 9. “The trash talking is having a negative effect.”  Opposition leader  Tony Abbott  says his assessment of the
economy has been realistic. Gillard’s policies such as
introducing carbon pricing and a tax on mining profits are bad
for the economy, he told Channel 10 yesterday.  “Obviously the Reserve Bank is not all that optimistic,”
he said. “If it were, it wouldn’t be cutting rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  