-- Axelrod Says Romney Living on ‘Different Planet’ on Jobs
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-10T17:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/axelrod-says-romney-living-on-different-planet-on-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama ’s chief
political strategist,  David Axelrod , said Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  “is living on a different
planet” because he opposes the Obama administration’s plan to
create more jobs for teachers, firefighters and policemen.  The administration is seeking to recover from a week of
economic and political developments that put the president on
the defensive and complicated his re-election campaign. These
included a June 1 report that the  unemployment rate  increased in
May, the failure of Democrats and unions in a recall vote
against Republican Governor  Scott Walker  in Wisconsin and
accusations of leaking classified information on cyberattacks
and drone strikes.  Obama also opened himself to Republican attacks by saying
“the private sector is doing fine” during a White House news
conference on June 8. He later clarified his remarks by saying
“The economy is not doing fine.”  Romney mocked the president for his comments, casting Obama
as out of touch with economic reality while campaigning in  Iowa 
and questioning the administration’s calls for additional
federal spending to boost job growth.  “The president called the press conference to say that
because of the storm clouds that are rolling in from  Europe  and
elsewhere, we need to undergird our economy,” Axelrod said
today on ABC’s “This Week.”  The private sector is “certainly doing better than the
public sector,” Axelrod said in a separate interview on  CNN ’s
“State of the Union.”  250,000 Teachers  “We’ve lost 250,000 teachers in the last couple of years,
every community in the country is feeling it,” Axelrod said on
ABC. “We’re not going to win, and our kids are not going to
win, unless we invest in education, so I would suggest he’s
living on a different planet if he thinks that’s a prescription
for a stronger economy.”  Jobs in the U.S. grew by 69,000 in May, the fewest in a
year and less than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of private economists. The  unemployment rate  rose to
8.2 percent last month from 8.1 percent in April, the first rise
since June 2011.  “This administration has done more to crash business than
anyone in history,” former Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Santorum  said on the ABC program. Romney’s plans to lower
taxes and boost private sector growth “is far superior” to
Obama’s efforts to boost public-sector jobs and increase
regulation, Santorum said.  Wisconsin Recall  The Wisconsin recall, in which Walker beat Democratic
Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett by a margin of 53 percent to 46
percent, sent both parties racing to spin the results as they
compete for the swing state in the November election.  Walker said his victory means Romney can be competitive in
Wisconsin, which Obama campaign manager  Jim Messina  listed as
“undecided” in a campaign video released June 4 -- the day
before the recall vote.  “Six months ago, I think the White House had it firmly in
their column,” Walker said of the state on Fox News Sunday. “I
think it’s up in the air.”  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , Obama’s former White House
chief of staff, downplayed the importance of the  Wisconsin  vote
in an interview on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program.  Intelligence Leaks  While that election turned partly on Walker’s opposition to
collective bargaining rights for public employees, Emanuel said
voters rejected using it to settle a public-policy dispute.  “I think people know when you’re recalled, it’s got to be
something severe,” Emanuel said. “You’ve committed corruption
or something of that level. And I think that’s where the
judgment was. This was not the tool for disagreeing with his
policies on collective bargaining or other issues.”  The Obama campaign is also facing Republican claims that
the administration has leaked information about drone strikes
and cyberattacks in an effort to burnish the president’s
national-security credentials.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder appointed two federal
prosecutors June 9 to investigate possible leaks after news
reports detailed an alleged U.S. cyberattack on  Iran’s nuclear
program , a thwarted bomb plot by al-Qaeda’s Yemen affiliate and
Obama’s personal role in approving a so-called “kill list” for
targeted strikes by armed drones overseas.  Senator  John McCain , the  Arizona  Republican who was
defeated by Obama in the 2008 presidential election, has called
for an independent special counsel to look into the disclosures.  ‘Certainly Responsible’  “It’s obvious on its face that this information came from
individuals who are with the administration,” McCain told CNN’s
“ State of the Union ” program. “The president might not have
done it himself, but the president is certainly responsible.”  Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan Republican who
leads the House Select Committee on Intelligence, questioned
whether federal prosecutors would be able to adequately
investigate a “parade of leaks” that would have them
questioning leaders in the Defense and Justice departments and
other military and policy-decision makers, speaking on CBS’s
“Face the Nation.”  Rogers and Democratic Senator  Dianne Feinstein , who leads
the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, said they are
examining potential legislation to deter such leaks.  Feinstein, a California Democrat, said on CBS she doesn’t
think the Obama administration was responsible for the leaks.  “I have no information,” she said. “No, I do not believe
that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  