-- Axelrod Dismisses Obama Economy Remark
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-06-11T04:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/axelrod-dismisses-obama-economy-remark-that-republicans-focus-on.html
President Barack Obama’s remark that
the private-sector economy is “doing fine” will have little
effect on the November election, his campaign’s senior adviser
said, even as Republicans continued to spotlight the comment to
gain political ground.  “I think the American people are smarter than that,”
Obama aide  David Axelrod  said on ABC’s “This Week” program
yesterday when asked whether Obama would suffer lasting damage
from the June 8 remark he made to reporters at the White House.  Voters “understand the president called the press
conference to say that because of the storm clouds that are
rolling in from  Europe  and elsewhere, we need to undergird our
economy,” Axelrod said. “And he called the press conference to
promote several steps he thought we needed to take to strengthen
job creation.”  The comment opened up Obama to a barrage of criticism from
Republicans, with  Mitt Romney , the party’s presumptive
presidential nominee, saying it underscored his case that Obama
is out of touch with the anxieties of average Americans.  Following up on Romney’s June 8 attack in Iowa, his
campaign released a Web video yesterday showing several people
talking about job losses, personal bankruptcy and their struggle
to find work. The 54-second video replays a clip of Obama’s
remarks four times before closing with, “No, Mr. President, we
are not doing fine.”  RNC Video  The  Republican National Committee  released a similar Web
video shortly after Obama made his comment at the news
conference he called to press his case that Europe’s fiscal
crisis is proving a drag on the U.S. economic recovery, as are
layoffs by state and local governments. Taking note of private
employers adding 4.3 million jobs over the last 27 months, he
said, “The private sector is doing fine.”  The focus on the comment comes as Obama has suffered other
recent setbacks to his re-election bid. These included a June 1
report showing jobs in the U.S. grew by 69,000 in May -- the
fewest in a year and less than the most pessimistic forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of private economists -- and that the
 unemployment rate  increased to 8.2 percent last month from 8.1
percent in April.  Democrats and union allies failed in a June 5 recall vote
to oust Republican Governor  Scott Walker  from office in
 Wisconsin , a state Obama’s campaign is counting on in the
November election. And new fundraising numbers released June 7
showed Republicans and Romney’s campaign outraised the president
and Democrats in May by almost 30 percent.  ‘Little Consequence’  Axelrod dismissed the long-range political impact of these
developments, saying what happens in June will have minimal
impact with voters.  “I suspect much of this will be of little consequence,”
he said on ABC.  He declined to answer directly, during a separate
appearance on  CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” program, whether he
agreed with Obama’s “doing fine” remark.  “The private sector -- we need to accelerate  job creation 
in the private sector,” Axelrod said.  Obama tried to limit the fallout from his remark, saying
later on June 8 that it is “absolutely clear that the economy
is not doing fine.”  Axelrod yesterday sought to shift attention to Romney’s
opposition to Obama’s effort to get Congress to pass measures to
stem the cutbacks in public-sector employment.  ‘Different Planet’  “I would suggest he’s living on a different planet if he
thinks that’s a prescription for a stronger economy,” Axelrod
said of Romney on ABC.  Focusing on teacher cutbacks, Axelrod said “it’s bad in
the short term for our economy, because those are good middle-
class jobs, and it’s bad in the long term for our economy
because we’re not going to win and our kids aren’t going to win
unless we invest in education.”  Romney, in his June 8 comments in  Iowa , scoffed at the
president’s support for “more firemen, more policeman, more
teachers.”  “Did he not get the message of Wisconsin?” Romney asked,
referring to the recall bid that was spurred by Walker’s efforts
to lessen the clout of public-employee unions.  The recall result, in which Walker beat Democratic
Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett by 53 percent to 46 percent, has
raised questions about how vulnerable Obama is to losing
Wisconsin -- a state he carried handily four years ago -- in
this year’s election.  Walker said yesterday that his victory means Romney can be
competitive in the state, which Obama campaign manager  Jim Messina  listed as “undecided” in a campaign video released
June 4 -- the day before the recall vote.  ‘Stand Up’  On CBS’ “Face the Nation” program, Walker urged Romney to
follow his political lead, saying that to win in November the
former Massachusetts governor must be “willing to stand up,
take on” tough decisions.  “ Governor Romney  has a shot if the ‘R’ doesn’t stand for
Republican, but reformer,” Walker said.  He added, “I don’t think we win if it’s just about a
referendum on  Barack Obama .”  Still, politicians from both parties discounted the
importance of the recall election.  “It would be a huge mistake for Republicans to misread
Wisconsin as some kind of great harbinger,” Indiana Governor
 Mitch Daniels , a Republican, said on “Fox News Sunday.”  He cautioned that it’s “not even clear that Governor
Romney will be that strong in Wisconsin” in November.  Policy Dispute  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , Obama’s former White House
chief of staff, said Wisconsin voters rejected using a recall to
settle a public policy dispute over Walker’s opposition to
collective bargaining rights for public employees.  “I think people know when you’re recalled, it’s got to be
something severe,” Emanuel said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS”
program, broadcast yesterday. “You’ve committed corruption or
something of that level. And I think that’s where the judgment
was. This was not the tool for disagreeing with his policies on
collective bargaining or other issues.”  Emanuel predicted the presidential race will be determined
by swing voters in as few as five states, including Ohio,
Virginia and Wisconsin.  “It’s five states, 500 precincts,” said Emanuel. “That’s
what I believe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  