-- Belmont Park Party Shrinks as Chance for Triple Crown Disappears
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/belmont-park-party-shrinks-as-chance-for-triple-crown-disappears.html
James Allen said he wasn’t going to
let I’ll Have Another’s injury ruin his day out.  “I’m not a huge racing fan or anything,” Allen, a 32-
year-old Manhattanite said in an interview yesterday at Belmont
Park in Elmont,  New York . He donned a straw fedora, striped
bowtie and khaki shorts and went with five friends anyway.
“We’re just here to enjoy the atmosphere, dress up in clothing
we don’t wear all that often and have a little fun.”  I’ll Have Another, winner of the first two legs of
thoroughbred racing’s Triple Crown, was retired from racing two
days ago when he was diagnosed with a leg injury. Union Rags won
in a photo finish over Paynter.  A crowd of 85,811, 28 percent less than the 120,000 that
the  New York Racing Association  had expected before I’ll Have
Another’s retirement, showed up at the track yesterday for the
slate of 13 races, including the 144th running of the Belmont
Stakes. Union Rags, the co-favorite after I’ll Have Another was
scratched, won the 1 1/2-mile event in two minutes, 30.42
seconds over Paynter to claim the $600,000 winner’s purse. The
colt paid $7,50, $4.20 and $3.40.  I’ll Have Another, who last month won the  Kentucky  Derby
and Preakness, was retired on June 8 after doctors found the
start of tendinitis in his left front leg. The crowd, largely
composed of people wearing spring sport coats and bowties or
colorful hats and full-length dresses, stood and cheered as the
three-year-old chestnut colt was led onto the track thirty
minutes before the final race for a ceremony in the winner’s
circle.  Trainer Doug O’Neill took off the horse’s saddle and patted
the colt’s flanks three times.  “We felt that this would be a fitting ceremonial
retirement for an incredible racehorse,” O’Neill said. “There
are many fans who traveled from near and far to see I’ll Have
Another today, and we wanted to give them a chance to help us
send him off to retirement.”  Affirmed’s Win  The last horse to win the Triple Crown was Affirmed in
1978. Since then, 11 horses have won the first two legs only to
lose at Belmont, most recently Big Brown in 2008.  Bob Werner made plans to attend the Belmont Stakes
immediately after I’ll Have Another won the Preakness in May. A
64-year-old native of Louisville, Kentucky, and former horse
owner, Werner purchased plane tickets to attend yesterday’s race
with his 13-year-old son, Sam.  “We planned on it because of all the horses I’ve seen,
there have been two that I really thought were going to win the
Belmont, Spectacular Bid in 1979 and this one,” he said in an
interview.  Derby Veteran  Werner, who has been to the Kentucky Derby 41 of the past
43 years, said I’ll Have Another’s injury revealed the truth
that thoroughbred racing is a fragile and unpredictable sport.
He said he never once considered not coming to the track after
hearing about the colt’s retirement.  “There was no thought at all,” he said. “I’m a horse
guy. It’s just another horse race.”  Attendance for yesterday’s card, while less than NYRA’s
expectations, was still 72 percent higher than the 50,000-person
average in the previous four times a Triple Crown was not on the
line. The number was a record for a Belmont Stakes day in which
a Triple Crown could not be won, NYRA said in an e-mailed
release.  The last four times a Triple Crown was on the line at
Belmont, the track averaged an attendance of 105,000, including
a record 120,139 in 2004.  Yesterday’s on-site handle, or total wagered, was about
$13.8 million, the second-largest Belmont Stakes day in history,
after NYRA said yesterday that all advance bets involving I’ll
Have Another would be refunded. The track took in $14.5 million
in wagers in 2004, when Smarty Jones lost his bid for the Triple
Crown, and a $13.3 million handle for Big Brown’s 2008 race.  Decreasing Value  J. Paul Reddam, I’ll Have Another’s owner, also took a
financial hit with the injury. Aside from losing the opportunity
at the winner’s purse, the retirement might cost Reddam more
than $5 million in the horse’s value, according to Baden P.
“Buzz” Chace, a bloodstock agent who buys and sells horses for
clients.  Purchased for $35,000, I’ll Have Another might have been
worth $10 million for his owners had he won yesterday, Chace
said before the horse was retired. The value is now closer to $3
million to $5 million, Chace said after the injury was made
public.  Stores at the track continued to sell $30 t-shirts and $25
hats in purple and black that celebrated I’ll Have Another’s
success. Fans were also given free posters at the door detailing
the horse’s accomplishments, and one labeling the colt a
“hero.”  Bachelor Party  Ron Wasserman, who went to tracks as a child in Syracuse,
New York, was at Belmont Park with 14 friends as part of his
bachelor party. The 33-year-old said I’ll Have Another’s
withdrawal made it easier for more friends to attend, but
prevented his hopes of witnessing history on a special day.  “I was just convinced that since it was my bachelor party,
we were going to see a Triple Crown,” Wasserman said. “It was
a big letdown.”  -- Editor: Michael Sillup, Nancy Kercheval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in Elmont, New York, at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  