-- Best Time for Best Buy Bid Now as Founder Exits: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-06-11T20:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/best-time-for-best-buy-bid-now-as-founder-exits-real-m-a.html
There’s never been a cheaper time
for private-equity firms to gamble on  Best Buy Co. (BBY) , with founder
Richard Schulze’s 20 percent stake up for grabs and the
electronics retailer near its lowest-ever valuation.  The world’s largest seller of consumer electronics traded
last week at 4.8 times earnings after reaching a record low of
4.3 times last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
With Best Buy’s price-earnings ratio making it the least
expensive U.S. retailer greater than $1 billion, buyout firms
could get a company that generates the most free cash relative
to its stock price in the industry.  Once valued as high as $29 billion, Best Buy has plunged to
$7 billion and posted its first annual loss in two decades as
 same-store sales  fell in seven of the last eight quarters.
Schulze, who resigned last week as chairman after failing to
inform the board of allegations the chief executive officer had
an inappropriate relationship with an employee, is exploring
“all available options” for his stake. That may spark interest
from buyout firms, said Telsey Advisory Group, for a deal that
would be the biggest in the U.S. retail industry since 2005.  “It’s easy to see the benefit of them being private right
now,”  Matt Arnold , an analyst at St. Louis-based Edward Jones &
Co., said in a telephone interview. “It comes down to whether
there’s an interested buyer that sees value in Best Buy and is
willing to take on the risk. Even though there are pressures,
it’s still generating pretty substantial profitability,
especially as measured by free cash flow, which is how private
equity is going to be thinking about this.”  Losing Money  Today, shares of Best Buy fell 2.4 percent to $19.50.  Best Buy declined to comment, said Bruce Hight, a spokesman
for the Richfield, Minnesota-based company. Meghan Stafford, a
spokeswoman for Schulze, said he declined to be interviewed.  Shares of Best Buy had tumbled  30 percent  in the last 12
months through June 8 for the  third-worst  performance among 32
retail companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The stock
has declined in three of the last four years as Best Buy lost
sales to  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and other online retailers.  Best Buy posted a  net loss  of $1.23 billion on revenue of
$50.7 billion for the fiscal year that ended in March, its first
annual loss since 1991, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Same-
store sales  slipped 1.7 percent because of a pullback in
discounts after the  holiday shopping season . To trim costs, it’s
now shutting 50 big-box locations in the U.S. this year while
upgrading its website and accelerating the opening of stores to
sell mobile phones.  ‘Very Cheap’  The company’s  price-earnings ratio  of 4.8 on June 8 was
cheaper than all other 71 U.S. retailers with market values
exceeding $1 billion and less than a third of the group’s
median, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Best Buy’s results for the most recent quarter included a
month of overlap with the previous quarter after the company
moved the end date for its fiscal year a month earlier. The
multiple is based on the sum of earnings from continuing
operations in the last four quarters.  “If you think the company is going to survive, then it’s
very cheap,”  Joe Feldman , a New York-based analyst at Telsey
Advisory, said in a phone interview. “We’re in the camp that
there’s a place for Best Buy. It just has to transform and
change a bit.”  The stock’s depressed valuation relative to the amount of
free cash flow Best Buy generates may appeal to leveraged buyout
firms, Feldman said. The excess cash could be used to pay off
debt used to take the company private, he said. The retailer had
$2 billion in  debt  and $1.4 billion in cash as of May 5.  Downsizing Stores  Best Buy was valued last week at just  4.3 times  its cash
from operations for the last 12 months after deducting capital
expenses. That’s cheaper than every other retailer in the world
with a market capitalization larger than $1 billion and less
than a quarter of the industry’s median free cash flow multiple
of 19 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Private-equity buyers may see an opportunity to boost
profit by more aggressively downsizing Best Buy’s big-box
stores, which would reduce rent and employee costs, according to
 Edward Jones ’ Arnold. That would enable the company to sell
merchandise at lower prices and better compete with Web
retailers like Amazon, he said.  “It’s not like there’s a lack of interest or demand in
consumer electronics,” Arnold said. “It’s that the stores are
too large. With smaller locations it’s easy to cover overhead
costs and generate a good level of earnings power.”  Inappropriate Relationship  Best Buy shares extended their drop after  Brian Dunn , 52,
resigned as CEO in April at the outset of a board investigation
that found he had an inappropriate relationship with a 29-year-
old female employee with whom he e-mailed and texted frequently.
The probe found he also loaned her money and gave her free
tickets to concerts and sporting events.  A month later, Schulze, who founded the company in 1966,
said he would resign as chairman after Best Buy’s annual meeting
June 21 for failing to relay the allegations about Dunn’s
conduct to the board. Schulze, 71, planned to remain a director
through the 2013 meeting.  Instead, last week Schulze announced he was resigning
immediately as chairman and from the  board  and would explore
options for his 20.1 percent stake, which makes him the
company’s  largest shareholder .  Some investors are speculating Schulze’s resignation is a
sign he may want to lead a buyout of the company, said  Michael Pachter , an analyst for Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles .  ‘Do Something’  “He’s either going to sit there and watch his asset waste
away over time, or he’s going to do something,” Pachter said.
“It’s not like he had to resign from the board to become
activist, but he did need to resign if he wants to do an LBO.”  It will still be challenging for Schulze to find private-
equity firms willing to take on the risks associated with Best
Buy and to help fund a transaction, he said. According to
Pachter, Best Buy’s cash flow will keep declining and the
company will continue to lose money.  A buyout of Best Buy would cost at least $30 a share to
convince long-time investors to sell, said  Anthony Chukumba , an
analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in  New York . That would be a 50
percent premium to last week’s closing price and equate to a
total deal value of about $11.2 billion, including net debt.  “The probability of an LBO is very, very low,” Chukumba
said in a phone interview. “Not only do you have a bad
macroeconomic environment, which generally makes lenders
skittish, but you’ve also got a company with declining
comparable-store sales, deteriorating  profit margins , rising
competition” and too many stores, he said.  Big Buyout  At $11.2 billion, taking Best Buy private would be the
largest U.S. retail deal since 2005 when Federated Department
Stores Inc., now Macy’s Inc., agreed to buy May Department
Stores Co. for almost $17 billion, including net debt, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It would be a big LBO,” Scott Rostan, a former M&A
banker and founder of Training The Street, which trains new
hires at banks on mergers, said in a phone interview from New
York. “But with a branded name of this caliber, it could
potentially be feasible if there is some certainty around those
cash flows. I’m sure there are financial sponsors out there who
are evaluating this.”  While a takeover isn’t imminent as Best Buy focuses on a
turnaround and its search for a new CEO, Schulze’s possible sale
of his ownership stake removes one barrier to a deal, said R.J. Hottovy, an analyst for Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago .  “It probably would be better off as a private company in
the sense that it would allow them to make a lot of the changes
they need to make,” he said. “It is certainly a brand that
people still recognize. There’s a big opportunity to shed a lot
of excess costs in this business model right now and that’s a
hallmark of a private equity situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 