-- China Trade Surprise Signals Domestic Stimulus Focus
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-11T08:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/china-s-may-exports-imports-trade-surplus-exceed-estimates.html
China ’s  exports  rose in May at more
than double the pace analysts estimated while industrial output
and retail sales trailed forecasts, signaling that last week’s
interest-rate cut was aimed at countering a domestic slowdown.  Overseas shipments climbed 15.3 percent from a year
earlier, the customs bureau said yesterday, exceeding all 29
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Industrial output gained
by less than 10 percent for a second month and retail sales
increased the least in almost six years excluding holiday-month
distortions, statistics bureau reports showed June 9.  China’s trade resilience signals  Europe ’s crisis has yet to
spark a collapse in world commerce on the scale of 2008, even as
 Spain ’s banking woes threaten to deepen the trauma. Stronger
exports and imports also support the case for Premier  Wen Jiabao 
to adopt a more restrained stimulus than the credit boom
officials unleashed in 2008, which stoked a property bubble.  “The better-than-expected trade data should help alleviate
ongoing concerns of a sharp growth deterioration in the near
term,” said Sun Junwei, a Beijing-based economist with HSBC
Holdings Plc. “The key to securing a soft landing pivots on
reviving domestic demand and that will necessitate more stimulus
but it will be more measured than in 2008 and monetary policy
won’t be eased excessively.”  The government may boost tax cuts and speed up spending on
public works to ensure growth of more than 8.5 percent in the
second half of the year, the bank says. Further reductions in
 interest rates  are “possible” and  reserve requirements  may be
cut four more times this year to spur lending, according to Sun.  Spain Rescue  China’s stocks had their biggest slide this year last week,
after the rate cut heightened concern the nation’s economic
slowdown is deepening. Equities rallied in  Asia  today after a
weekend agreement in Europe to provide Spain with as much as
$125 billion to bail out its banks. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
was up 1.9 percent at 4:50 p.m. in  Tokyo .  Trade data from Singapore today also showed resilience,
with non-oil domestic exports advancing 3.2 percent in May from
a year before, compared with the median estimate for a 3 percent
gain. Malaysia’s industrial production growth quickened in
April, with output at factories, utilities and mines rising 3.2
percent from a year earlier, after climbing a revised 1.5
percent in March, the statistics department said today.  In  France ,  industrial production  unexpectedly increased in
April from March. Italy’s statistics institute said the economy
contracted 0.8 percent in the three months through March from
the previous quarter, matching an earlier estimate.  Rate Cut  China on June 7 announced the first rate reduction in more
than three years to spur demand. The 25 basis-point move took
one-year borrowing costs to 6.31 percent and the one-year
deposit rate to 3.25 percent.  China’s economic growth eased to 8.1 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier and may slow to 7.7 percent in the
three months through June, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The
bank also predicts full-year expansion of 7.7 percent, the least
since 1999. Wen in March set a 2012 growth target of 7.5
percent, down from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005.  Inflation in May eased to 3 percent, the statistics bureau
said, the lowest reading in two years and below the government’s
2012 target of 4 percent for the fourth month.  The decline will offer more room for policy easing, said Lu Ting, head of Greater China economics at Bank of America Corp.
in  Hong Kong . He expects the government to start and speed up
more projects and make financing easier by cutting reserve
requirements and interest rates, approving more corporate bond
issuance and lifting lending restrictions.  Bank Loans  The People’s Bank of China released  money supply  and new
lending figures for May today. M2, the broadest measure of money
supply, rose 13.2 percent while new  yuan  loans were 793.2
billion yuan ($125 billion), up from 681.8 billion yuan the
previous month and 551.6 billion yuan a year ago.  China’s statistics bureau also reported fixed-asset
investment excluding rural households rose 20 percent in the
first five months. That was the weakest gain for a January-May
period since 2001, according to previously released data.  Industrial output increased 9.6 percent in May from a year
earlier and retail sales grew 13.8 percent. Home-appliance sales
growth slid to 0.5 percent compared with a 15.4 percent gain a
year ago, after the government ended incentive programs.  Consumer Subsidies  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493) , China’s second-
biggest electronics retailer, said May 25 its first-quarter net
income slumped 88 percent from a year earlier as demand dropped
when the programs ended. President Wang Jun Zhou said new
subsidies announced last month for energy-saving appliances will
be “particularly important” to boost television and air-
conditioner sales.  Customs data showed a trade surplus of $18.7 billion last
month, more than economists estimated, while the median forecast
for export growth was 7.1 percent. Imports rose 12.7 percent
from a year earlier compared with the median estimate for a 5.5
percent gain. Crude oil purchases climbed to a record and iron
ore imports were the highest in three months.  “This shows it’s not all doom and gloom,” said Song Seng Wun, an economist with CIMB Research Pte. in  Singapore . “Growth
momentum may be slowing, but it’s not about to crash.”  --Zhou Xin, Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery, Chris Anstey  To contact Bloomberg news staff on this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net 
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  