-- China Trainmaker CSR Says Euro Crisis Deters Europe Deals
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-11T10:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/china-trainmaker-csr-says-euro-crisis-deterring-european-deals.html
CSR Corp. (1766) ,  China ’s biggest
trainmaker by market value, is unlikely to act on proposed
acquisitions in Europe this year because of concerns about the
region’s economy and the future of its single currency.  “The debt crisis in Europe is still developing and I think
there is a risk of the economy getting worse,” Chairman Zhao Xiaogang said in a June 8 interview in Beijing. “I want to stay
calm and watch for a while.”  The debt crisis threatens the long-term profitability of
companies in Europe and it could cause the euro to tumble, which
would cut the value of earnings repatriated to China, Zhao said.
CSR, based in Beijing, said in April that it was in talks on
possible deals in Spain,  Italy , Germany, the U.K. and France, to
add new technologies and to pare its reliance on  domestic sales .  “It makes sense that CSR is being prudent, given the
economic and credit environment in Europe right now,” said Han Weiqi, a Shanghai-based analyst at CSC International Holdings
Ltd. “CSR should have little worries about other European
competitors stealing a march on them, as the overall environment
is tough.”  Zhao declined to comment on specific deals that the company
had considered. Italian newspaper  Il Sole 24 Ore  said in April
that the group had bid for stakes in  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s train-
making unit AnsaldoBreda and signal-maker  Ansaldo STS SpA. (STS)   Spain, Greece  The euro has weakened 16 percent against the  yuan  in the 12
months through June 8, as European leaders struggle to revive
growth and to reign in debt crises in countries including  Spain 
and Greece. Spain requested a bailout of as much as 100 billion
euros ($125 billion) to rescue its banking system over the
weekend.  The euro crisis “means we may be able to buy an asset at
lower price, but the economic slowdown also threatens companies’
survival and development,” Zhao said. “It is a dilemma.”  CSR will focus its export push on Southeast, Central and
Western Asia, possibly including the formation of overseas
ventures, Zhao said. The company, which also makes carriages,
wagons and wind turbines, signed an agreement to assembly
shunting locomotives in  Kazakhstan  last month.  The  trainmaker  will have “no problem” doubling overseas
orders this year, and foreign markets will account for 10
percent of sales, Zhao said. The company wants to generate 20
percent of sales overseas by 2015 from 7.7 percent last year, he
said in April.  Still, high-speed trains are unlikely to form part of
China’s rail exports for at least five years because many
overseas projects, including one in  California , are still at an
early stage, Zhao said. The company said in 2010 that it planned
to work with  General Electric Co. (GE)  on bids for high-speed
contracts in the U.S., including the California line.  China Reforms  In China, rail construction has slowed following a fatal
high-speed crash in July and the ousting of a minister in a
corruption probe in February 2011. The government is now under
taking reforms including public tendering and the introduction
of private capital into rail projects.  CSR has dropped 16 percent in Hong Kong since the July 23
crash, matching the decline for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .
It rose 2.1 percent to HK$5.82 today. In  Shanghai , the
 trainmaker  has tumbled 29 percent since the accident, while
rival China CNR Corp. has fallen 33 percent. The benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index has lost 17 percent.  CSR will consider investing in urban rail projects in
second or third-tier cities in China to help boost sales, Zhao
said. The trainmaker is also in talks with the rail ministry as
it works to develop a vendor-financing business, he said.  “We hope the country can have a breakthrough in this
area,” Zhao said. He didn’t elaborate.  --Jasmine Wang with assistance from Alexandra Ho in Shanghai.
Editors: Neil Denslow, Anjali Cordeiro  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  