-- Chinese Airlines See Government Support on EU-Emissions Snub
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-10T23:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/chinese-airlines-see-government-support-on-eu-emissions-snub.html
Chinese airlines will snub a mid-
June deadline for submitting carbon-emissions data to the
European Union and anticipate that any fines or bans would be
met with retaliatory measures.  The  China  Air Transport Association “expects that the
Chinese government will impose similar penalties on European
airlines swiftly after any EU action,” Secretary General Wei
Zhenzhong said yesterday in an interview in Beijing. The group,
whose members include China’s big three state-controlled
carriers, hopes a trade dispute can be avoided, he said.  The European Commission has already given Chinese and
Indian airlines an extra two and half months to submit 2011
emissions data as it tries to avoid a trade spat with the
world’s two most-populous countries. The Asian nations have led
multinational opposition to the addition of intercontinental
flights to a European-run emissions-trading system because of
concerns about cost and sovereignty.  Chinese airlines want the EU to delay the start of the
emissions levies and instead wait for a global system to be
devised through a United Nations aviation body, Wei said before
the International Air Transport Association annual meeting in
China’s capital. Other countries opposed to the EU plan have
also backed letting the  International Civil Aviation
Organization  regulate emissions worldwide.  EU Stance  The EU has repeatedly said it will not give up the curbs on
emissions from the aviation sector, which became part of the
bloc’s legislation in 2008. Airline carbon-dioxide discharges in
 Europe  doubled over two decades and international organizations
failed to enact pollution curbs.  “All this retaliation talk isn’t in anyone’s interest,”
said Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman for the European
Commission, the EU regulatory arm. “It would be much wiser to
spend all this energy to get a global deal in ICAO.”  The  Commission  said last month there had been “systematic
non-reporting” of emissions data to and from Europe by 10
airlines based in India and China. Other carriers serving the
region met a March 31 deadline, it said. The airlines weren’t
obliged to hand in permits for 2011 emissions.  China is also looking at setting up its own emissions
system, Wei said. The EU law allows an exemption for overseas
airlines from the cap-and-trade system on incoming flights if
the home government introduces similar measures.  When asked about the possible effect on Toulouse, France-
based aircraft manufacturer Airbus SAS from the emissions row,
Wei said any reductions or delays in plane orders would reflect
“commercial decisions” and the wider travel market.  --Jasmine Wang. With assistance from Ewa Krukowska in Brussels.
Editors: Neil Denslow, Nicholas Reynolds  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  