-- Companies Shape Curricula in New University Partnerships
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-06-10T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/companies-shape-curricula-in-new-university-partnerships.html
Kevin Peterson, who helped  General
Electric Co. (GE)  redesign a tool to speed up the disassembly of gas
turbines last year, is listed on the patent application as one
of the inventors. Now, at the age of 20, he is working on a
rocket-launch system in Alabama for  Boeing Co. (BA)   Peterson, a rising senior at Virginia Polytechnic Institute
and State University in Blacksburg, is one of the hottest new
products in corporate America’s supply chain: a kind of futures
contract on high-skill labor.  Faced with a wave of retiring engineers and scientists and
the need for precise expertise, U.S. companies --including GE,
Boeing,  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  -- are
reaching into colleges to make contact with students far earlier
than they ever have. Their involvement extends to advising and
shaping curricula so graduates can plug into jobs faster with
less training time and cost.  Universities “need to provide our students with hands-on,
real-world practical application from day one,” said Rick Stephens, senior vice president of human resources and
administration at Boeing in  Chicago . “So when they show up at
the first job, not only can they find information, not only can
they develop it, they can actually do real work.” Many schools
“are getting that message.”  Persistent Unemployment  The corporate initiatives will help resolve a skill
mismatch that’s contributed to persistently high unemployment
since the 18-month recession ended in June 2009. The jobless
rate has stalled above  8 percent  for 40 consecutive months,
rising to  8.2 percent  in May from 8.1 percent in April, and U.S.
employers created only 69,000 jobs last month, the fewest in a
year. The  unemployment rate  for youth between the ages of 16 and
24 with a bachelor’s degree or higher has averaged more than 9
percent annually since 2009.  When the Labor Department released the jobs data on June 1,
Treasuries rallied, driving 10-year yields below 1.5 percent for
the first time. That’s a sign that long-term fixed-income
investors see scant evidence of wage-driven inflation as the
labor market fails to match workers with jobs -- a trend that’s
contributing to a loss of the dynamism for which U.S. employment
has long been known.  The stronger focus on applied learning in public
universities such as  Virginia  Tech and  Georgia  Institute of
Technology in Atlanta also is driven by the harsh economics of
state budget constraints.  Raising Alarms  Despite alarms raised by policy makers about the need to
develop a more educated American workforce, state legislatures
aren’t coming up with the cash.  Taxpayer funding in Virginia has fallen 11 percent during
the past five years per full-time equivalent student after
adjusting for inflation, while enrollment has climbed 21
percent, according to  data  from the State Higher Education
Executive Officers association in Boulder, Colorado. Funding in
Georgia is down 23 percent in the same period, while enrollment
is up 32 percent.  As taxpayer backing shrinks, costs shift to parents and
students, who pay higher tuitions and take on more debt -- which
makes the goal of monetizing education with a solid job more
urgent.  Tuition and fees for in-state students at public four-year
colleges and universities have climbed in the past decade at an
average annual pace of 5.6 percent beyond the rate of inflation,
according to the  College Board . Student-loan debt jumped to $904
billion in the first quarter of this year, the highest in
records going back to 2003 tracked by the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York .  Reduced Spending  Steep payments for education loans hurt the economy, partly
because they mean less  consumer spending  on purchases such as
houses, President  Barack Obama  told an audience of students,
faculty and local officials at the University of Nevada-Las
Vegas on June 7.  American companies are standing up to help with money,
advice and positions for job-seeking graduates. In return, they
want schools to take a more active role in training and skill
formation.  “We do see employers who are interested in having students
who can come in and be productive right away,” said Ralph
Mobley, director of career services at Georgia Tech. “Small to
mid-sized companies, and even some larger ones, don’t have
budgets for training like maybe they once did. They are looking
to save some of that cost.”  Sophomore Skills  While companies have for decades funded research and
recruited at institutions of higher learning, they now are more
involved in what students do in some four-year technical
programs. They are making recommendations on curricula and
influencing students’ skills as early as sophomore year, said
Amy Slaton, a professor of history at Drexel University in
Philadelphia.  “In the last five to eight years” industry and academic
cooperation “has taken another notch up,” Slaton said.
Bachelor’s-level engineers “are coming out with a more focused,
practical education that serves industry really well.”  United Technologies  partners  with about a dozen U.S.
universities and contributes about $5 million annually. The
money may be in the form of a donated jet-engine part or cash
that funds a lecture series. The Hartford, Connecticut-based
company recruits at schools such as  University of Connecticut 
and  Pennsylvania State University  for more than 1,000
internships a year.  ‘Fair Share’  “I want more than my fair share” of engineering talent,
 Louis Chenevert , chairman and chief executive officer of the
aerospace and building-products manufacturer, said in an
interview when asked about the return he gets on this
investment. “We offer the best jobs in America to these
people,” he said, noting that young engineers get a chance to
work on “exciting stuff,” such as the Black Hawk helicopter,
made by the company’s Sikorsky division.  While Slaton says she worries universities are becoming too
vocational -- with “much of what we see getting produced as
knowledge in the schools” starting from “an industry-related
focus” -- students interviewed for this story weren’t
complaining.  Peterson, the  Virginia Tech  student, said he structured his
course work toward specializations that Boeing and GE need. When
he graduates with a mechanical-engineering degree in 2013, he
will have not only experience working at the two companies but
also hands-on involvement with some of their top projects.  Jobless Graduates  He says he sometimes wishes his classes took time to focus
on the theoretical underpinnings of engineering. Still, “it
makes sense for universities to prepare their students the best
way they can for the workforce,” he said, adding that he knows
of graduates from other schools who aren’t getting offers.  The number of U.S. job openings rose to 3.7 million in
March, the most since July 2008, even with  13 million  people out
of work, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics data -- a sign
that some of the unemployed may not have skills that fit
employers’ needs.  Georgia Tech helped start the trend toward more corporate
input into curricula in 2002, when the university hired Richard DeMillo,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s chief technology officer, as its
dean of the College of Computing. He reorganized the curriculum
between 2002 and 2005 with the intent of producing students
better fit for industry.  The previous course load generated graduates who were less
suited to jobs in entertainment, health care and computer
security, he said. The new program allows students to choose
“threads” that allow them to mix computing with literature or
animation so they might be attractive to movie or gaming
companies such as  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)   Helpful Conversations  “It was really a conversation with lots of Georgia Tech
stakeholders, though mainly firms, about what would you like to
see,” said DeMillo, now a distinguished professor of computing
at the university. Microsoft,  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Hewlett-Packard and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  executives all offered
advice. “I really deconstructed conversations I had had with
fellow CTOs over the previous three or four years about what was
going on in academia and what would be helpful.”  Jennifer Tour Chayes, managing director of Microsoft’s
computer-science and software-engineering research facilities in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, said “the attitude has really
changed” as universities become more receptive to corporate
input. She has urged colleges to provide students with both
technical skills in computer science or mathematics plus
expertise in an unrelated field, such as sociology, economics or
biology.  Better Training  “The training is certainly better today,” she said. Some
graduates in the past “were not prepared for the kinds of jobs
we had to offer.”  For some students, the firmer handshakes between companies
and colleges are paying off. Aurel Lazar, 21, changed his focus
from academic research when he learned more in his Georgia Tech
classes about the computer industry. After graduation, he took a
job with Microsoft in March.  “The major tech companies will come to the school and talk
about their research almost every week,” he said. “Microsoft
and Google are practically part of the College of Computing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  