-- Democracy and Capitalism Are Heading for a Breakup
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-06-10T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/democracy-and-capitalism-are-heading-for-a-bitter-breakup.html
Once upon a time Marxist-Leninists
 said  that the state, after its seizure by the proletariat, would
wither away. Instead, big government grew more oppressive in
communist countries. In our own deeply ideological age of global
capitalism, the state was supposed to yield to the logic of the
free market, while being a self-effacing facilitator of private
investment.  Fittingly, global capital initially found its best
investment climate in a country recovering from Marxist
Leninism:  China , where a nominally Communist regime gave
subsidies and tax breaks to exporters and foreign investors. The
unelected regime’s lack of democratic accountability helped in
this process of marketization, especially in the swift and
largely unpublicized suppression of dispossessed peasants and
factory workers.  But can the state in democratic countries be such a pliable
agent of profit-maximizing capitalists? Reading some of the
recent commentary bemoaning the state of the Indian economy, I
am struck by its basic supposition: that it is the Indian
state’s duty to speed up “economic reforms” -- code words for
opening up the economy further to private investment and global
flows of capital and production. The government is berated for
its “paralysis,” apparently so damaging that Indian businessmen
are now forced to make most of their investments abroad.  Broken Partnership  The main assumption here is that elected national
governments and the global market economy are logical partners
in the creation of wealth and in that much slower but apparently
steady process, the removal of poverty. But what if this is
untrue? What if, as the British philosopher John Gray put it in
a prescient book, “False Dawn: The Delusions of Global
Capitalism,” “democracy and the free market are competitors
rather than partners.”  Writing  in the 1990s, Gray was preoccupied with the
imminent decline of the European social-democratic model
sustained by deficit-financed full employment and egalitarian
tax policies. As Gray warned, “global mobility of capital and
production in a world of open economies have made the central
policies of European social democracy unworkable.” They had also
made “today’s mass unemployment a problem without a simple
solution.”  Gray predicted that the state -- reduced to managing global
economic flows, many of which escaped its oversight -- would
lose its political authority. And “the natural counterpart” of a
 single integrated market economy  with its arcane and opaque
workings, would be a “politics of insecurity” in states still
defined as territorially distinct units with separate political
electorates.  Such is  Europe  today. Angry and fearful electorates stand
ready to reject any government seen doing the bidding of
transnational organizations or enforcing fiscal discipline at
the behest of invisible bondholders.  Capitalism’s Contradictions  Even at the height of the previous decade’s artificial
boom, serious contradictions had opened up between democratic
politics, which respect the opinions of the majority, and the
imperatives of global capitalism, which is geared toward the
creation of private wealth.  Most British people have consistently seen mobile labor, a
precondition of economic growth, as a threat to local jobs and
social solidarity. Regardless of the many pro-immigration
editorials in the Financial Times, the Economist and other
financial organs, successive governments have tried to show
themselves to be in line with public opinion.  And more: European politicians, from Marine Le Pen to
 Angela Merkel  and  Gordon Brown , kept up a populist rhetoric of
national “values,” (often in opposition to a vaguely defined
“multiculturalism”). As their scope of action in the economic
arena shrank,  Tony Blair  and  Nicolas Sarkozy  also tried to
project themselves abroad as missionaries for freedom and
democracy.  But old-style nationalism and international posturing can’t
compensate for the surrender of economic sovereignty to business
and financial institutions, especially in a time of acute
crisis, such as the one in Europe today.  A belatedly aroused citizenry holds elected governments to
account for the destruction of old guarantees of security and
stability. Politicians are accused of pampering elites with
transnational loyalties, and for allowing the entrenchment of
massive inequalities. But the politicians are of course
helpless; the welfare state has withered away and cannot be
recreated.  Turning to India, we find a not dissimilar impasse. Unlike
in Europe and America, democracy in a largely poor country like
 India  has been inseparable from the promise of material
improvement and social and economic justice.  India’s politicians have always sought to bribe their
largely impoverished electorate, and reward themselves and their
allies. They have tended to fight harder than their European
counterparts against the restrictions on their power and
authority -- for instance, against the cuts in welfare spending
entailed by a deeper integration of the national economy with
the global one.  Bawling Bollygarchs  For a while, the tensions between democracy and capitalism
could be contained. In the last decade, many in India’s
political class found new ways of enriching themselves through
alliances with the biggest corporations, which were given the
best pickings among the country’s wealth of oil, gas, forests
and minerals.  The credit boom helped a sizeable Indian minority feel
rich. Many of them retreated to a gated existence in which
everything from education to health care and security was
privatized. The new private media helped create a general
fanfare about India’s imminent arrival as an economic
superpower.  But a spate of corruption scandals, accelerating inflation,
a slowing economy and the fear of a punitive electorate, most of
which has not benefited from globalization, have terminated this
age of delusion. The crisis has also induced splits among
India’s mobile business class and elected politicians.  According 
to the Financial Times last week, “As India’s growth slumps,
delegations of aggrieved business titans are becoming an
increasingly common sight in  New Delhi .”  These “Bollygarchs,” as the FT calls them, may not get much
satisfaction at present from their old political partners.
India’s politicians, facing elections in 2014, now have to
attend to the business of wooing people who voted them in, and
restoring the authority of the state.  Such are the lessons of  Greece  and India today -- and
indeed of many other democratic countries, where the
representatives of a much-withered state desperately figure out
how to renegotiate their compact with re-politicized and
increasingly enraged voters.  (Pankaj Mishra, whose new book, “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of  Asia ,” will be
published in August, is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
 London  and Mashobra, India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on why  boring banking isn’t
safer  and on  voter registration in Florida ;  Mark Buchanan  on
 testosterone and trading ; William D. Cohan on  watering down
Dodd-Frank ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  November election milestones ;
 Simon Johnson  on  why the U.S. needs another systemic-risk
watchdog ; William Pesek on  Greece’s effect on Asia ; Red Jahncke
on  a German exit from the euro ; Jay S. Fishman on  how to
incubate small businesses.   To contact the writer of this article:
 Pankaj Mishra  at  pmashobra@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  