-- Does Congress Want Another Economic Meltdown?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-06-10T22:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/does-congress-want-another-economic-meltdown-.html
Here’s a question to consider as
Congress prepares to grill  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  on Wednesday: Will the bank’s $3 billion
(and growing) trading loss change anything on Wall Street?  A sad truth remains: Despite all the public hand-wringing
about the need to finally nail down the details of the
regulations that will govern risk-taking at big banks, Wall
Street’s well-paid army of lawyers and lobbyists continues to
make a mockery of the whole re-regulation process.  It seems increasingly likely that, by the time the charade
is over, the American people will end up with fewer substantive
rules and limitations on the crazy risks Wall Street can take
than we have now. By some counts -- including that of Matt Taibbi, at Rolling Stone -- there are  nine obscure pieces of
legislation  introduced in Congress this year that are designed
to in one way or another weaken the already weak provisions of
the Dodd-Frank law, passed in July 2010.  Most of the legislation is intended to do little more than
waste time, and hold off real accountability until the public
has lost interest. Other laws are more pernicious. Consider H.R.
3336, the so-called Small Business Credit Availability bill.
Under the guise of helping community lenders, it would limit who
is considered a “swap dealer” under the provisions of Dodd-
Frank, allowing more and more swaps to be written with less and
less oversight. It passed the House in April.  Watering Down  A more insidious effort to water down Dodd-Frank was
introduced by Jim Himes, a Connecticut Democrat -- yes, Democrat
-- who used to work at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and enjoys the
support of many financial executives living in his district in
and around  Stamford , Greenwich, Fairfield and Bridgeport. H.R.
3283 would exempt from Dodd-Frank’s regulatory regime the
foreign affiliates of U.S. swaps dealers. If Himes’ bill passes
-- it will be considered further sometime before July 16 -- it
is not difficult to conceive that Goldman Sachs or JPMorgan
Chase could originate trillions of dollars of derivatives or
swaps in their foreign subsidiaries --  London , anyone? -- in
order to evade Dodd-Frank.  Thus these “weapons of mass destruction” -- as  Warren Buffett  has famously called derivatives contracts -- could be
written here and parked in foreign subsidiaries, all in order to
evade Dodd-Frank’s oversight.  Gary Gensler , the chairman of the
Commodity Futures Trading Association (and, like Hines, a former
Goldman executive) warned that the bill “would leave vast parts
of the swaps market not coming under reform” and substantially
reduce transparency and increase risk” to financial system.  “Death by a thousand cuts” is how Representative Maxine Waters, a California Democrat, aptly described the strategy of
the banks and their congressional allies to gut Dodd-Frank. By
April, Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat
who co-sponsored the Dodd-Frank law, could take it no more.
“Unregulated, irresponsible derivative transactions are one of
the major causes of the economic crisis,” he declared in  a
statement . “In the Financial Reform bill, we adopted provisions
that allowed derivatives to perform their legitimate function
for companies seeking to stabilize prices, while substantially
reducing opportunities for abuse. Two bills reported out by the
Republican majority on the Financial Services Committee in their
current form would re-deregulate derivatives in ways that would
again make them a threat to our economy.”  Frank’s Fault  In some ways, Frank himself is to blame for crafting a law
Wall Street can drive a Mack truck right through. Instead of
definitively stating how derivatives and swaps would be
regulated, or delineating the kinds of risks that big  Wall
Street  firms would be able to take, or changing the incentive
system on Wall Street to make sure that bankers and traders and
executives are no longer rewarded for taking big risks with
other peoples’ money, Frank in his own way succumbed to
pressures from Wall Street. Many crucial provisions of the law
were watered down or purposely left vague. Instead of bright
lines, we were given vague promises of study groups with
amorphous deadlines -- in other words, the kind of regulatory
dog’s breakfast that only a high-priced Wall Street lawyer can
feast on.  In the wake of the unexpected losses at JPMorgan Chase, a
few efforts are under way to stem the watering-down. On May 31,
Waters invited a group of experts on derivatives to a Capitol
Hill hearing room to debate for the public -- and for her fellow
members of the House Financial Services Committee -- the wisdom
of the continued use of derivatives. (At her request, I
moderated the panel.)  She plans additional hearings on other relevant subjects.
On June 5,  Sheila Bair , the former chairman of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., set up a new Systemic Risk Council --
sponsored by the Pew Charitable Trusts, where Bair now works --
to monitor the process of financial regulatory reform and to
warn the public of where it is going astray.  Trading Losses  On June 6, at a Banking Committee hearing, senators grilled
JPMorgan Chase’s regulators about how they possibly could have
missed the big trading loss that Dimon self-reported last month.
“While the JPMorgan trading loss does not appear to have caused
systemic problems, it is a clear reminder that Wall Street
continues to need better risk management, vigorous oversight and,
if the rules are broken, unyielding enforcement,” said Senator
 Tim Johnson , a Democrat from  South Dakota . On June 13, Dimon
appears on  Capitol Hill  to answer questions about the trading
losses.  Although Johnson is undoubtedly correct, the real question
is who will prevail in the ongoing death match over how much
oversight the big banks will ultimately have to endure. As
always, I wouldn’t bet against Wall Street’s ability to prevail.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on why  boring banking isn’t
safer  and on  voter registration in Florida ;  Mark Buchanan  on
 testosterone and trading ; William D. Cohan on  watering down
Dodd-Frank ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  November’s election milestones ;
 Simon Johnson  on  why the U.S. needs another systemic-risk
watchdog ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  the growing capitalism-democracy
split ; William Pesek on  Greece’s effect on Asia ; Red Jahncke on
 a German exit from the euro ; Jay S. Fishman on  how to incubate
small businesses.   To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 