-- Dustin Johnson Heads to U.S. Open With PGA Tour Win, Fixed Back
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-06-11T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/dustin-johnson-prepares-for-u-s-open-with-st-jude-classic-win.html
Dustin Johnson will head to  San
Francisco  for golf’s  U.S. Open  with a healthy back and his first
win of the season.  Johnson yesterday won the St. Jude Classic by one shot to
secure his sixth victory on U.S.  PGA Tour . Johnson shot a final-
round 4-under-par 66 at the TPC Southwind in  Memphis ,  Tennessee ,
yesterday for a four-round score of 9-under 271.  John Merrick
was second at 8 under following a 2-under 68.  It was Johnson’s second event following a three-month
injury layoff. The 28-year-old pulled a back muscle lifting a
jet ski at his home in March and returned to the tour at the
Memorial Tournament last week, where he finished ninth.  “It feels really good, especially having so much time
off,” Johnson, who collects $1 million with his first win of
the year, told reporters.  Tee times for the final day were moved to earlier in the
day because of the possibility of thunderstorms. Threesomes
began play from the first and 10th tees at 7 a.m. local time,
with the leaders teeing off at 8:54 a.m.  The $8 million U.S. Open begins at the Olympic Club in San
Francisco on June 14.  Tiger Woods ,  Phil Mickelson  and Bubba Watson will play together for the first two rounds at the second
major championship of the season.  Woods, the 6-1 oddsmakers’ favorite, is a three-time U.S.
Open champion, while Mickelson has five runner-up finishes in
the event to go with three Masters Tournament titles and the
2005 PGA Championship crown. Watson won the Masters in April for
his first major victory.  Chad Campbell had a birdie at the 16th hole yesterday to
take a one-shot lead at 8-under over  Ryan Palmer , 2011 U.S. Open
champion Rory McIlroy, Johnson and Merrick.  Johnson, playing in the next group, joined Campbell at 8-
under with a birdie at No. 16. Moments later, McIlroy advanced
to 8-under with a birdie at No. 17 and Merrick made it a four-
way tie for the lead by also scoring four at the par-5 16th.  Johnson got his second straight birdie from about nine feet
(2.7 meters) at the 17th to take the lead for good at 9-under.  Nick O’Hern of Australia moved to 8-under with a birdie at
the 17th. McIlroy had a double-bogey six at the 18th hole to
drop to 6-under after sending his tee shot into a water hazard,
the same error Campbell and O’Hern made to finish with bogeys.  Palmer, Campbell, O’Hern and  Davis Love III  were tied for
third place at 7-under.  If Johnson secures his first major title at the Olympic
Club, he’d be the first player to win on the PGA Tour the week
before the U.S. Open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 