-- LeBron James Leads Heat to Win Over Celtics to Reach NBA Finals
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-10T04:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/lebron-james-scores-31-as-heat-beat-celtics-to-reach-nba-finals.html
LeBron James ,  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  combined to outscore the Boston Celtics 28-15 in the final
quarter to break a tie and advance to the National Basketball
Association finals with a 101-88 victory.  The Heat will face the Oklahoma City Thunder in the best-
of-seven Finals starting June 12. The Thunder eliminated the  San
Antonio Spurs  in six games for the Western Conference crown.  James had 31 points and 12 rebounds, Wade added 23 and Bosh
scored 19 for the Heat, who won the final two games of the
series after falling behind 3-2 with three straight losses.  “I just wanted to play well,” James said in a televised
interview. “You know this whole season I got back to what I
know I’m capable of doing.”  After rallying from a 53-46 deficit, the Heat were tied at
73-73 entering the fourth quarter when James, Wade and Bosh
scored all 28 points for Miami on their home court at
AmericanAirlines Arena.  “It was a collective group for us to win a championship,”
James said. “Everybody had a big part of this win.”  James said Bosh, who missed nine playoff games with a lower
abdominal strain, showed “energy in his effort. We missed him.
Happy to have him back at just the right time.”  Bosh said he hoped he would be ready to contribute.  ‘Be Ready’  “You never know what life throws you,” Bosh said. “I
just wanted to be ready. I kept playing the games over and over
in my head.”  Rajon Rondo  had a triple-double with 22 points, 10 rebounds
and 14 assists and  Paul Pierce  added 19 points for the Celtics.  James, a three-time NBA Most Valuable Player who came to
Miami promising championships, will get a chance to win his
first in the Finals against a Thunder team led by  Kevin Durant ,
who finished second to James in the MVP voting this season.  James left the  Cleveland Cavaliers  as a free agent for the
Heat in 2010 with the nationally televised proclamation that he
had decided to “take my talents to South Beach.” He later
declared that he and fellow All-Stars Wade and Bosh would lead
the Heat to at least seven NBA titles in addition to the one
Miami won in 2006.  “And when I say that, I really believe it,” James said at
a public rally to officially welcome him and Bosh to Miami. “We
believe we can win multiple championships if we take care of
business and do it the right way.”  The Heat last year reached the NBA Finals before losing to
the Dallas Mavericks in six games.  “I’m happy for this group of brothers,” said Heat coach
 Erik Spoelstra . “It’s made us tougher and we’ll need it for the
next series.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  