-- Egypt Vote Count Begins After Runoff Presidential Election
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-06-17T22:21:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/egypt-s-aboul-fotouh-supports-brotherhood-candidate-correct-.html
Egyptian authorities began counting
votes for Islamist candidate Mohamed Mursi and former President
 Hosni Mubarak ’s last premier Ahmed Shafik as polls closed for a
two-day presidential runoff clouded by the dissolution of
parliament and polarization of the electorate.  The election has been overshadowed by the decision of
Egypt’s highest court on June 14 to dissolve the Islamist-
dominated parliament, followed by a decision by the ruling
generals to lock the legislators out of the building. The court
also threw out a law that would have kept Shafik, a career air
force officer and Mubarak’s last prime minister, from running
against the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mursi.  The decisions were described by Islamists and youth
activists as a “coup” by the ruling military council. The
council issued a constitutional declaration as vote-counting
began giving the military sole authority to oversee its own
affairs, including its budget and personnel, Egyptian state
television reported.  The military will also appoint members of the committee to
write a new constitution if there is a “legal obstacle” to the
existence of the current constitutional committee, according to
the declaration. The declaration is valid until there is a new
constitution, which must be written within three months and put
to a public referendum, according to Egyptian television.  Military Approval  The Egyptian president can only declare war with the
approval of the military, the declaration says. The rules
stipulate that the next president will take the oath of office
in front of the constitutional court in the absence of
parliament. The declaration gives the military, the president
and the prime minister the right to object to constitutional
articles that run counter to “national security interests.”  The dissolution of parliament raised tensions at a time
when the country’s economy is struggling to recover from 17
months of unrest.  “I had hoped we’d have a real change after the
revolution,” said Mohamed Khaled, a 28-year-old doctor who was
among those who treated the wounded during last year’s uprising
that ousted Mubarak. “What we ended up with was the Brotherhood
grabbing at power and the military fooling us all into thinking
it was behind us.”  Voter Turnout  Officials have yet to release voter turnout estimates,
though state television, citing its correspondents, reported it
was between 40 to 45 percent in some governorates. Authorities
twice extended the voting by an additional hour, until 10 p.m.,
in hopes that more people would turn out after the day’s heat
wave subsided.  Many Egyptians said they would either boycott the process
or invalidate their votes. The independent daily Al-Shorouk’s
banner headline today read: “The Beginning... The Boycott
Wins.”  Ballot counting will begin tonight after polls close, with
official results released on June 21.  Shafik and Mursi were the most divisive of the 13
candidates who stood in the first round last month. The two men
garnered a combined total of about 50 percent of the votes, with
only about half of the 50 million Egyptians eligible casting
their ballots.  Law and Order  Emad Kassem, a 36-year-old accountant who participated in
the bloodiest days of last year’s uprising, said he invalidated
his ballot today by voting for both men.  “The only choice I have is to not choose,” he said.  Shafik has run on a law and order platform, vilifying the
Brotherhood as a secretive organization intent on dragging the
country into “darkness.” Mursi, a last-minute entrant into the
race after it became clear the group’s first choice would be
disqualified, has sought to win over supporters by casting
himself as the “candidate of the revolution” and reaching out
to women and minority Christians wary of the Islamist rule he
could bring to the presidency.  “We need an end to injustice, as well as security and
jobs. Implementing Shariah is the best way to achieve that,”
said Khaled Youssef, a 28-year-old garage attendant in Cairo who
planned to make an hour-long trip to his home town of Fayoum to
vote for Mursi. “If he’s not successful, we can always vote him
out after four years.”  Market Reaction  The tensions are affecting  Egypt ’s chances for an economic
recovery.  Fitch Ratings  on June 15 cut the country’s foreign-
currency debt by one step to B+, four levels below investment
grade, citing “increased uncertainties surrounding the
political transition.” Foreign reserves fell by more than half
since the beginning of last year and a $3.2 billion loan from
the  International Monetary Fund  has yet to be approved.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in 2020
surged the most in more than two months following the ruling
against parliament, gaining 16 basis points, or 0.16 of a
percentage point, to 6.9 percent on June 15, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The New York-traded  Market Vectors Egypt Index (EGPT)  exchange
traded fund, which owns stakes in 27 companies that are either
based or operate in the Arab country, dropped 4.8 percent in the
two days following the ruling to the lowest level since January.
The Egyptian exchange was closed today because of the voting.  Voter Doubts  While the Brotherhood is the most organized political group
to emerge since the uprising, its decision to field a candidate
after having pledged not to raised doubts about its intentions.  “They’re arrogant and power hungry,” said Saad Nasser, a
23-year-old Salafi Muslim who said he was voting for Shafik just
to block Mursi. “They had a chance and they wasted it by
pretending to be real Muslims. They’re no better than the old
regime.”  The group’s spokesman, in comments run by the Ahram Gate
website, said the ruling generals had “no right” to
unilaterally issue an interim constitutional declaration. The
military council was trying to continue injecting “disarray”
in the political scene and should simply “pack up and leave
after two weeks,” Mahmoud Ghozlan said.  Some activists saw the hand of the old regime at work even
before the voting had concluded. The April 6 youth movement,
which played a major role in the uprisings, complained of the
detention of some of its members by authorities and warned the
interior minister, in an emailed statement, “against any
attempt to suppress protests after an illegitimate win by Ahmed
Shafik.”  Others, like Ahmed el-Sony, a 19-year-old student, say they
expect trouble if Shafik wins.  “I won’t accept a Shafik presidency and will return to
Tahrir if he wins,” el-Sony said as he waited to vote for
Mursi, referring to the square in Cairo that was the focus of
the revolt against Mubarak.  -- With assistance from Mariam Fam and Ola Galal in Cairo and
Zaid Sabah in  Washington . Editors: Digby Lidstone, Ann Hughey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  