-- Telefonica Awakens to Debt Concern With Unicom Stake Sale
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-06-11T16:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/telefonica-to-sell-part-of-china-unicom-stake-to-pay-down-debt.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s decision to sell
half of its stake in  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762) , paring its
seven-year venture into one of the fastest-growing wireless
markets, shows the burden of debt on the Spanish operator.  The sale of 1.07 billion China Unicom shares for HK$11
billion ($1.4 billion) will cut Telefonica’s holding in China’s
second-largest mobile-phone operator to 5 percent, the companies
said yesterday. The HK$10.21-per-share deal values the stake at
22 percent less than its  carrying value  on Telefonica’s
accounts. Madrid-based Telefonica agreed not to sell any further
China Unicom shares for 12 months.  Having spent $85 billion on acquisitions since taking over
in 2000, Telefonica Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is now
under pressure to reduce more than 57 billion euros in net debt.
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the company’s rating last month and in the
past two weeks Telefonica has announced plans to slash the cash
portion of its dividend and explore initial public offerings for
its German and Latin American assets.  “It reflects how the board is finally recognizing the
seriousness of the concern of credit markets over Telefonica’s
balance sheet,” said Paul Marsch, an analyst at Berenberg Bank
in  London  who advises selling the stock. “This is the right
step but you can’t look at this in isolation.”  Spanish Bailout  Telefonica shares dropped 1 percent to 9.68 euros in
Madrid. The stock has fallen 28 percent this year, cutting the
company’s market value to 44.1 billion euros. China Unicom
climbed 6.6 percent to HK$11.06 in  Hong Kong  trading, the
steepest increase since August, 2011.  The sale came as  Spain  became the fourth euro member to
seek a bailout since the start of the region’s debt crisis more
than two years ago with a request for as much as 100 billion
euros to rescue its banks. Seven months after winning a
landslide victory, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  was forced to
abandon his bid to recapitalize Spanish banks without external
help as the Treasury’s access to  capital markets  narrowed.  For Telefonica, the sale of the China Unicom shares was
also an aboutface. Alierta said in a February interview that he
wanted to keep the China Unicom stake “forever.” Telefonica
yesterday reiterated its commitment to continue cooperation on
roaming, technology and digital opportunities with the Chinese
company.  China Mobile  Under yesterday’s agreement, Telefonica will sell the China
Unicom shares to the Chinese carrier’s state-owned parent China
United Network Communications Group. Pending regulatory
approval, the transaction will probably be completed by the end
of July, the companies said.  The disposal highlights the difficulties for overseas
carriers to expand in China’s telecommunications market beyond
holding minority stakes.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  sold its 3.2 percent
stake in  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  in 2010 for $6.5 billion, unraveling
a decade-long investment in what is now the world’s biggest
mobile-phone operator.  Alierta will remain a China Unicom director and Chang Xiaobing, chairman and CEO of China Unicom, will stay on the
board of the Spanish company.  “Entering China was Alierta’s personal bet,” said
Francisco Salvador, a strategist at FGA/MG Valores. “It just
didn’t make any sense for Telefonica to have that stake without
being able to increase it further.”  Debt Target  Alierta’s venture in China dates back to June 2005, when
Telefonica bought 2.99 percent of China Netcom Group Corp. (Hong
Kong) Ltd. for 240 million euros. The stake was raised to 5
percent in September that year, with the total investment
reaching 418 million euros. Unicom acquired  China  Netcom Group
Corp. in 2008.  In January 2011, Telefonica agreed to increase its stake in
China Unicom to 9.7 percent, and the Chinese company raised its
holding in the Spanish operator to 1.37 percent. Each company
bought $500 million of shares in the other.  As Alierta now seeks to unwind some of his acquisitions,
Telefonica has an internal target to cut its debt by a range of
6 billion euros to 8 billion euros this year, a person familiar
with the matter said this month. The company is considering an
IPO of a 20 percent stake in the O2  Germany  unit, aiming to
raise as much as 2 billion euros, people familiar with the
matter have said.  The Spanish operator is seeking about 1 billion euros from
the disposal of its Atento call-center division, people with
knowledge of the matter said last week. Bain Capital Partners
LLC is among potential bidders, with binding offers expected by
the end of this month, they said.  “Telefonica will have to move faster with the IPO plans in
Germany and maybe sell Atento at a lower-than-expected price
while also undertaking the IPO in  Latin America  this year,”
Berenberg Bank’s Marsch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  