-- England Fan Snub Threatens Ukraine Economy’s Soccer Stimulus
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-11T12:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/england-fans-snub-threatens-ukrainian-economy-s-soccer-stimulus.html
For some  England  fans, the 3,120-
kilometer (1,939-mile) trek to a Ukrainian coal-mining hub for
this month’s  European soccer championship  is a voyage too far.  “With two of our games in Donetsk, we’re virtually talking
about going to a European tournament in  Asia  and there are no
direct flights,” said Mark Perryman, a spokesman for London-
based supporters. “Unsurprisingly, the numbers are very low.”  The reluctance of fans across  Europe  to travel to the
former Soviet country’s eastern edge threatens Ukraine’s goal of
as much as 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) in tourist revenue
from Euro 2012 as the continent’s debt crisis imperils demand
for its steel and grain exports. The final figure may be less
than half of that target as supporters balk at transport and
accommodation costs even after almost $14 billion of pre-
tournament investment,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and Capital Economics
Ltd. predict.  “Money is unlikely to rain down on Ukraine,” VTB Capital
economist Dmitry Fedotkin said June 1 by phone. “I don’t expect
Euro 2012 to considerably spur economic growth.”  While some fans are relishing the adventure of visiting the
former Soviet republic, four times more would have traveled had
England’s initial games been held in neighboring Poland, the
tournament’s co-host, according to Perryman. England’s first
match against  France  kicks off at 7 p.m. local time in Donetsk’s
Donbass Arena.  Balotelli’s Threat  Concern about potential racial abuse is also cooling the
enthusiasm of potential travelers. The relatives of England
player Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain joined the family of teammate
Theo Walcott in deciding to stay away from the tournament, the
London-based Independent newspaper reported May 25.  Italy’s  Mario Balotelli  threatened to walk off the field if
racially abused, saying he would “kill” anyone who throws a
banana at him, the  BBC  reported May 30.  Ukraine has no racism, which is “Europe’s problem,” as
the former communist country doesn’t have significant
immigration from Asia and  Africa , Oleg Voloshyn, a spokesman for
the country’s Foreign Ministry, said May 30 on the government’s
website for the tournament.  Still, former England captain  Sol Campbell  advised fans in
an interview with the BBC not to travel, suggesting they would
be risking their lives by doing so. The Dutch squad reported
racist chanting at a training session last week in the Polish
city of Krakow, the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper  said  June 7.  Average Spend  English officials estimate 3,000 to 4,000 fans will make
the trip to Ukraine and  Poland , a tenth of the number that
traveled the last time the team qualified for Europe’s premier
national soccer contest eight years ago in  Germany .  At Euro 2008, visitors spent an average 1,327 euros and 983
euros a head in co-hosts Austria and  Switzerland , according to
Erste. About 500,000 tourists will probably visit Ukraine for
the three-week tournament, leaving a combined 400 million euros,
or approximately 800 euros each, it estimated.  “Ukraine is still far below European standards in
transport quality and service industries,” Erste analysts
including Birgit Niessner wrote May 22 in a research note. In
addition, “some football tourists may be discouraged by high
room rates.”  Flights Costs  A round-trip air ticket from  London  to the eastern city of
Donetsk, 125 kilometers from the Russian border, costs as much
as 880 pounds ($1,359), while a night in a three-star hotel can
stretch to 455 euros. The cost of a similar room in Warsaw,
where the tournament kicked off June 8, ranges from 200 zloty
($58) to 1,500 zloty and most flights to Polish cities are less
than 1,000 zloty.  As of May 29, tickets were available for nine matches in
Ukraine compared with one in Poland, according to UEFA.  “If they want to welcome the people, they have to do
something because the people will not go if the prices are too
high,” UEFA President  Michel Platini  said in an interview in
Budapest.  Construction of airports and hotels for the tournament went
ahead even as the global credit crisis that followed  Lehman
Brothers Inc .’s collapse prompted Ukraine to sign a $16.4
billion International Monetary Fund bailout in 2008 and erased
almost 15 percent of gross domestic product the following year.  Economic Boost  While the  economy  expanded 5.2 percent in 2011, growth may
slow to 1.6 percent this year,  Fitch Ratings  said May 11.
Ukraine’s current-account gap may widen to 6.5 percent of GDP
this year, according to the IMF.  The cost of insuring government debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps has jumped to 851
basis points from 462 a year ago. The hryvnia lost as much as 1
percent to 8.147 per dollar June 8 amid speculation the
government may devalue the currency. It was 0.1 percent lower at
8.0913 as of 12:52 p.m. in Kiev.  Ukrainian officials say the tournament will give the
economy a shot in the arm.  As a result of Euro 2012 “Ukraine will not get less than
1.5 billion euros of revenue,” Borys Kolesikov, the deputy
prime minister responsible for Euro-2012, said May 30. The
infrastructure built for the tournament should help turn Donetsk
into a business center and other cities into tourist hotspots,
he said today on the government’s website.  Jail Sentence  Adding to fans’ concern over costs, Ukraine’s image has
suffered in recent weeks as European Commissioners and other
leaders from the continent pledged to boycott matches in the
country in protest at the imprisonment of former Prime Minister
 Yulia Tymoshenko .  The opposition leader was handed a seven-year prison
sentence in October after being convicted of abuse of office in
signing a natural-gas deal with  Russia  in 2009 that’s harmful to
Ukraine. She’s complained of inhumane treatment including
beatings, accusations prosecutors deny.  U.K. ministers won’t attend the tournament’s opening stages
in Ukraine because of human-rights concerns, the British Foreign
Office said June 7.  “This starkly underlines the country’s problematic
political climate,” Amsterdam-based ABN Amro Group NV analyst
Arjen van Dijkhuizen, the author of the Soccernomics 2012
report, wrote in a May 29 research note. “The boundary between
sport and politics is once again blurring in the run-up to Euro-
2012.”  Still, logistics trump Ukraine’s political backdrop as the
priority for England supporters, according to fan representative
Perryman, who laid out Poland’s main advantages over its bigger
neighbor in straightforward terms.  “It’s a lot easier to get to and a lot cheaper,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  