-- Euro Drops as Spain’s Bailout Fuels Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-11T21:10:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/euro-strengthens-to-two-week-high-after-spain-seeks-bailout-fund.html
The euro fell against most of its
major peers as  Spain ’s bailout spurred concern that the
sovereign-debt crisis is deepening as it spreads among indebted
nations before Greek elections June 17.  The 17-nation currency earlier rose, touching a two-week
high, after Spain asked for as much as 100 billion euros ($126
billion) to save its banking system, making it the fourth member
of the currency bloc to seek a rescue. The bailout helped move
Italy to the front lines of the crisis, as bets increased
 Europe ’s third largest economy may be the next one to succumb.
Norway’s krone strengthened as consumer prices rose more than
economists forecast last month.  “Given that we’ve decisively rejected any sustained price
action above $1.26 and have a lot of unanswered questions around
the Spanish bank package and the Greek elections this weekend,
the near-term prognosis for the euro is not good,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  in New York.  The euro fell 0.3 percent to $1.2482 at 5 p.m. New York
time. It earlier climbed as much as 1.2 percent to $1.2671, the
highest since May 23 and the biggest intraday advance since Nov.
30. The euro fell 0.3 to 99.16 yen after rising as much as 1.5
percent. The dollar declined 0.1 percent to 79.44 yen.  Futures Wagers  Futures traders increased net bets against the shared
currency versus the dollar to a  record  high for a fifth straight
session last week. So-called net shorts rose by 11,003 to
214,418 contracts for the period ended June 5, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data showed.  “The move up in the euro overnight was a healthy move
because it probably took out a lot of weak shorts,” said  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at Bank
of  Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital unit. “Seeing it back below
$1.25 here today is very disappointing price action, and I
wouldn’t be surprised to see the euro continue its grind lower
this week going into the Greek elections over the weekend.”  The 14-day relative strength index for the euro versus the
dollar rose above 30 on June 4 for the first time in 10 days,
ending the longest streak since 2008. When the index moves below
30 it indicates an asset’s decline may have been overdone. The
gauge reached 37 today.  The British pound gained 0.1 percent to $1.5486 and added
0.4 percent to 80.61 pence per euro.  Pound Strength  “While the U.K. has its own intractable problems and a
pretty weak economic environment, it probably still looks if you
want to remain in Europe it’s a slightly better bet than the
euro,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in  London . “There are still
plenty of risks out there as far as the euro is concerned, so
it’s still a case of markets looking to sell rallies.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, rose 0.1 percent to 82.622 after falling as
much as 1 percent.  Seven months after winning a landslide victory, Spanish
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  was forced to abandon his bid to
recapitalize banks without external help. The bailout loan will
be channeled through the state’s bank-rescue fund, known as
FROB, and extended to lenders that need it, Economy Minister
Luis de Guindos Jurado said in  Madrid  on June 9.  Currency Measure  The European currency has fallen 3.7 percent in the past
six months, the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar has gained 2.4 percent and the yen is 0.3 percent
stronger.  Spanish and Italian 10-year bonds fell for a fourth day,
reversing earlier gains. The Spanish yield rose 29 basis points
to 6.51 percent, while the rate on the Italian securities
climbed 26 basis points to 6.03 percent.  Italy ’s  economy , the third-biggest in the region, shrank
0.8 percent in the first three months of this year from the
fourth quarter, Istat, the Rome-based national statistics
institute said, confirming an initial estimate. Household
spending decreased 1 percent and exports fell 0.6 percent.  Italy has 2 trillion euros of debt, more as a share of its
economy than any advanced nation after  Greece  and  Japan . The
Treasury has to sell more than 35 billion euros of bonds and
bills per month -- more than the annual output of each of the
three smallest euro members, Cyprus, Estonia and  Malta .  Growth Outlook  “The growth outlook for most of the euro area is already
bleak,” Guillermo Felices, head of European currency strategy
in London at Barclays Plc, and Yuki Sakasai, a New York-based
currency strategist, wrote in a research note. “Without growth,
the euro will remain under pressure.”  Norway’s krone strengthened against the dollar as data
showed underlying consumer prices rose 1.4 percent in May from a
year earlier, compared with a 1.1 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of nine economists.  The krone rose 0.1 percent to 6.0457 per dollar and earlier
climbed as much as 1.5 percent.  The euro has dropped 5.8 percent against the greenback
since the start of May amid concern Greece will leave the common
currency. The nation is scheduled to hold elections on June 17
after the previous vote last month failed to produce a viable
governing majority.  Rather than a euro failure, an orderly Greek exit from the
currency bloc has Nobel laureate  Joseph Stiglitz  and Nomura
Holdings Inc. chief strategist  Jens Nordvig  predicting a
stronger and more stable monetary union.  The nation accounts for just 2.3 percent of the 17-nation
trading bloc’s gross domestic product. It also has 356 billion
euros, or 4.3 percent of the region’s total debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The area’s trade deficit last year
would have been a surplus without its weakest member, according
to European Union data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 Dliedtka@bloomberg.net  