-- Euro Bloc Faces Greek Vote Giving First Spanish Test
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-11T12:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/euro-bloc-faces-greek-vote-giving-first-test-of-spanish-firewall.html
The future of the euro may be
determined in the coming weeks, as Greek voters decide whether
to honor the country’s international bailout and create a first
test for  Spain ’s newly built 100 billion-euro ($125 billion)
banking firewall.  With Greece going to the polls in six days, the most recent
surveys showed the main party opposing the terms of its bailout
vying for first place. The government in  Athens  has “a few
weeks” before exhausting its funds, making this is “a make-or-
break period,” former Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
told Bloomberg Television in a June 8 interview.  The European debt crisis, now in its third year, reached a
new milestone after Spain abandoned unilateral attempts to
rescue its banks and became the fourth country in the 17-member
currency union to seek an emergency bailout. The aid blueprint
hammered out in an emergency conference call among euro finance
chiefs two days ago is designed to create a line of defense if
the Greek vote unleashes a new bout of market turmoil.  “We are approaching a moment of truth for the euro zone,”
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  wrote in the
Sunday Telegraph yesterday. “After more than two years of
uncertainty, instability and slow growth, decisions taken over
the next few months could determine the economic future of the
whole European continent for the next decade and beyond.”  Close Race  Markets retreated from earlier highs after initially
surging following the announcement of Spanish aid. Spanish 10-
year yields rose 23 basis points to 6.4 percent as of 1:37 p.m.
in Madrid after earlier falling to as low as 6.02 percent.
Similar Italian securities rose to the highest in a week.  Polls show the June 17 election in Greece may be a close
race. New Democracy, Greece’s largest pro-bailout party, led
anti-bailout Syriza by 22.7 percent to 22 percent, according to
an ANT1 TV poll on June 1, the last date surveys were made
public. An election on May 6 failed to produce a viable
governing majority.  Syriza’s leader, Alexis Tsipras, has pledged to keep Greece
in the euro while scrapping bailout terms in order to end the
hardship brought on by austerity. Meanwhile, pro-bailout
proponents, such as  New Democracy  leader Antonis Samaras, have
framed the contest as a decision on whether to leave the euro
area. A departure would trigger hyperinflation, a bank run and
widespread poverty, Samaras has said.  ‘Splintering of Europe’  The currency bloc, which at its setup in 1999 capped
Europe’s progression from war to prosperity, was declared
irreversible by its founders. European Union treaties make no
provision for a country to withdraw from the currency and the
 European Central Bank ’s legal department said in December 2009
that an expulsion “would be so challenging, conceptually,
legally and practically, that its likelihood is close to zero.”  “This is the point where we have to make the decision,”
Papandreou said in the interview, aired on Bloomberg’s Inside
Track today. “If we don’t, I believe we have a small window of
time -- the next few months -- and maybe if we have that --
before we see a splintering of  Europe . So this is a make-or-
break period.”  After Spain became the latest bailout recipient, Italy
moved toward the front line of the debt crisis with its more
than 2 trillion euros in debt, placing pressure on Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s unelected government to avoid a market
rout.  ‘Decisive’ Action  As the Greek election result is declared, leaders of the
Group of 20 most industrialized nations will be preparing for
discussions on the threat of the debt crisis at a summit meeting
in Los Cabos,  Mexico . The June 18-19 gathering will be part of a
series of meetings on the euro crisis culminating in an EU
meeting in Brussels at the end of the month, which might present
a “master plan” drawn up by officials including EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  and ECB President  Mario Draghi  to hold the
euro together.  President  Barack Obama  kept up his pressure on European
leaders to take “decisive” action to bolster growth and tackle
debt, telling reporters June 8 at the White House that the euro
crisis is increasingly becoming a drag on the  U.S. economy .  The euro area needs an overhaul, ECB Council member Jens Weidmann told Welt am Sonntag in an interview published
yesterday.  ‘More Clarity’  “The currency union can’t function sustainably the way it
is at the moment,” Weidmann, who is also Bundesbank president,
was cited by the Berlin-based paper as saying. “We need more
clarity if we want to go down the route to a fiscal union, or if
we want to keep relying on self-responsible national budget
policies. In the latter case, the common liabilities need to be
narrowly limited.”  The Spanish bailout, which was announced June 9 after a
three-hour conference call of European finance ministers, may
offer a salve to markets ahead of the Greek vote.  Spanish  government bonds  posted their first weekly gain in
a month and the country’s borrowing costs retreated last week
amid optimism European leaders were preparing a bailout for
Spanish banks.  “With the Spanish bailout at least we’ve bought more time
and helped to ring-fence Greece,”  Carsten Brzeski , a former
European Commission economist who works for ING Groep NV in
Brussels, said yesterday in an interview. “It gives much more
breathing space to come up with this ‘master plan’.”  Banking Integration  That plan may involve a menu of proposals suggested by
European leaders over the past weeks, including the possibility
of a more integrated banking system, with euro-wide mechanisms
such as  deposit insurance  leading to a so-called fiscal union.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who as recently as
May 28 said he wouldn’t seek a bailout, yesterday characterized
the weekend deal as a  credit line  for banks and an endorsement
of his policies. Rajoy was forced to back off his pledge that
the government would re-capitalize the banking system on its own
after foreign investors scaled back their holdings of Spanish
debt.  “If we hadn’t done what we’ve done in the past five
months, the intervention of the Kingdom of Spain would have been
on the table yesterday,” Rajoy told reporters in Madrid. He
stuck to plans to visit the European soccer championship in
 Poland  because the situation is “resolved.”  Spain is twice the size of the three economies that have
sought bailout assistance so far --  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal. The funds will be channeled through the state-run FROB
bank-rescue fund, and will add to Spain’s debt, which was 68.5
percent of gross domestic product last year.  The bailout adds to the 386 billion euros in bailout funds
from European governments and the  International Monetary Fund 
have made since 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  