-- Osborne Says Euro-Zone Crisis Is Killing Off Britain’s Recovery
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-06-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/euro-area-crisis-is-killing-off-u-k-recovery-osborne-says.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the U.K.’s recovery is being “killed off” by the
euro area’s deepening crisis and the economy faces “huge”
risks from a disorderly breakup of the region.  “Our recovery -- already facing powerful headwinds from
high  oil prices  and the  debt burden  left behind by the boom
years -- is being killed off by the crisis on our doorstep,”
Osborne wrote in an opinion article in the Sunday Telegraph,
published yesterday. “The risks for us of a disorderly outcome
are huge.”  The euro-region’s turmoil deepened as Spain on June 9
became the fourth member to seek a bailout since the start of
the debt crisis more than two years ago with a request for as
much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) in loans to rescue its
banking system.  Osborne  said  that while there were signs a solution will be
found for  Spain ’s banking crisis, “the lesson of the last two
years is that treating the latest symptom does not cure the
underlying condition.”  Any “further pooling of sovereignty” among European Union
members over financial supervision or fiscal policy should be
limited to the euro’s 17 member states, Osborne said. Political
moves in the U.K. to transfer more power to Brussels would be
subject to a referendum, he said.  Referendum Lock  “British taxpayers will not stand behind euro-zone banks,
and British voters want their government to be in charge of
supervising our own banks, especially in a crisis,” Osborne
said. “One of our first and most important acts was to pass
into a law a referendum lock, so that any politician proposing
to give up more power over our own affairs in any new treaty
will have to put that choice to the people. Whatever may lie
ahead I find that extremely reassuring.”  Osborne reiterated that the  U.K. economy  is benefiting from
“safe-haven” status because of the government’s plan to cut
the  budget deficit , though he said investment and
entrepreneurship are being held back because of “uncertainty
about the future.”  “A resolution of the euro-zone crisis would do more than
anything else to give our economy a boost,” Osborne wrote.
“After more than two years of uncertainty, instability and slow
growth, decisions taken over the next few months could determine
the economic future of the whole European continent for the next
decade and beyond.”  ‘Deeply Complacent’  The opposition  Labour Party ’s finance spokesman  Ed Balls 
said Osborne was being “deeply complacent” in blaming the U.K.
recession on the euro-region crisis.  “Osborne needs to finally realize his policies have
failed,” Balls said in an e-mailed statement. “We urgently
need a change of course and a plan for jobs and growth, here in
Britain and in the euro zone, if we’re to get people back to
work and get deficits down. If we fail to act now, we will pay a
very heavy long-term price.”  The Conservative-led coalition government has been under
fire from Labour, which argues Osborne’s austerity plan is
responsible for plunging the U.K. into its first double-dip
recession since the 1970s.  The U.K. economy shrank 0.3 percent in the first quarter,
more than initially estimated, after contracting by the same
amount in the last three months of 2011.  Scotland ’s Finance Secretary John Swinney will say in a
speech today that while a swift resolution to the euro-zone
crisis is “vital” for the Scottish economy, the recession has
been caused by the government’s fiscal squeeze.  “The more immediate threat to Scotland’s fragile recovery
from recession, however, is the U.K. Government’s wrong-headed
commitment to austerity,” Swinney said in prepared remarks
distributed by his office. “Rather than seeking cover in the
Euro crisis the Chancellor should acknowledge that much of the
responsibility for the lack of economic growth lies at his own
door.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  