-- Lewis Hamilton Wins in Canada to Move Atop Formula One Standings
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-06-11T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/lewis-hamilton-wins-canadian-grand-prix-to-lead-f-1-standings.html
Lewis Hamilton  gambled on a two-stop
strategy to win the Canadian Grand Prix for a third time and
move ahead of  Fernando Alonso  and  Sebastian Vettel  atop the
Formula One drivers’ standings.  McLaren’s Hamilton secured his 18th career win and first of
the season yesterday at the same 2.7-mile (4.36-kilometer)
Circuit Gilles Villeneuve in  Montreal  where he gained his
breakthrough victory in 2007, his rookie season.  “It’s been five years since I won the first time here, but
it feels just as good,” Britain’s Hamilton said in a televised
news conference. “I loved every single minute of it.”  The result means a different driver has won each of the
first seven races of the season for the only time in the 62-year
history of Formula One.  Jenson Button , Alonso,  Nico Rosberg ,
Vettel, Pastor Maldonado and  Mark Webber  won the first six races
on the schedule.  The 27-year-old Hamilton, the 2008 world champion, has 88
points with 13 races remaining, two more than Alonso and three
more than  Red Bull ’s Vettel, who has won the world championship
the past two years. Webber, who was also above Hamilton before
yesterday, is fourth on 79.  Red Bull leads the constructors’ championship with 164
points from McLaren (133) and Lotus (108). Ferrari is fourth
with 97 points.  Grosjean, Perez  Romain Grosjean  of  France  finished second in Montreal for
Lotus, while Sauber’s Sergio Perez, a Mexican, was third.  Vettel, who won 11 of 19 races last year, was fourth after
making his second pit stop late in the race, while Ferrari’s
Alonso was fifth after trying to go 70 laps on two sets of tires.  Vettel and Hamilton, who were first and second on the grid,
were placed one and two during the early portion of the race,
with  Spain ’s Alonso in third.  Hamilton took the lead when Vettel stopped to change tires
on lap 17. The British driver came into the pits a lap later and
emerged in front of the German. Alonso went into first place
ahead of Hamilton and Vettel after his tire change.  Hamilton regained the lead with a passing maneuver on the
21st lap and dropped to third place on lap 51, ceding the lead
to Alonso when he made his second stop for tires.  Trailing Alonso by about nine seconds and Vettel by six
with 16 laps remaining, Hamilton, in the fastest car on the
track at that stage, was told by his crew that Alonso may go the
rest of the race without a second tire change.  Hamilton Surges  Hamilton continued to close on the leaders, trailing Alonso
by 7.7 seconds with 12 laps to go. The McLaren driver was
posting lap times about a second faster than the two front-
runners and he moved past Vettel into second place on lap 62,
leaving him 1.44 seconds behind Alonso.  Vettel pitted on lap 64 as Hamilton harried Alonso. A
passing attempt down Alonso’s outside failed on lap 64, as did a
move down the inside of the Ferrari before the next corner.
Hamilton’s third attempt of the lap, down the back straight,
succeeded, giving him the lead for good.  Having moved into third place following Vettel’s pit stop,
Grosjean streaked past Alonso into second place on lap 66.  “I didn’t realize I was third and then I saw Fernando was
slowing down and I was second,” Grosjean told reporters. “So
it was like a crazy end to the race.”  Unable to keep pace on his worn tires, Alonso then gave up
third place to Perez. Vettel also came through at the end to
leave the 2005 and 2006 world champion in fifth place.  “When you start 15th, you don’t expect to get a podium
finish,” Perez said. “The tire degradation wasn’t bad for me
and I managed to keep moving up the field so this is a great
boost for the team.”  The next race is the European Grand Prix, a street race in
Valencia on June 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 