-- Ex-Goldman Director Gupta Won’t Testify at Trial, Lawyer
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-06-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/ex-goldman-director-gupta-won-t-testify-at-trial-lawyer.html
Rajat Gupta , the former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director accused of passing tips to Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, will remain silent as his
insider-trading trial enters its final week, his lawyer told the
judge.  Gary Naftalis , who said in court June 8 that it was
“highly likely” Gupta would testify in what will be the
trial’s final week, told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in a
letter dated yesterday that Gupta wouldn’t be a witness.  “We have spent the last day reviewing what we believe we
need to present in the defense case,” Naftalis said in the
letter. “After substantial consideration, we have determined
that Mr. Gupta will not be a witness on his own behalf in the
defense case. We wanted to alert the court and the government of
this decision as soon as it had been made.”  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, is accused
of giving Rajaratnam inside information about Goldman Sachs and
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was also a director. Tips
Gupta allegedly passed to Rajaratnam involve Goldman Sachs
earnings in the first quarter of 2007 and fourth quarter of
2008. Another involves a $5 billion  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
investment in New York-based Goldman Sachs on Sept. 23, 2008.  Prosecutors also say Gupta told Rajaratnam that Cincinnati-
based P&G planned to sell its Folgers Coffee unit to J.M.
Smucker Co.  Gupta has pleaded not guilty to one count of conspiracy and
five counts of securities fraud, which carries a maximum term of
20 years in prison.  Naftalis declined to comment on the letter.  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, also
declined to comment.  ‘Hundred Reasons’  “There could be a hundred reasons Gary would have said one
thing on Friday and changed his mind,” Roland Riopelle, a
former federal prosecutor in  New York , said in a phone
interview. Now a white-collar defense lawyer, Riopelle
represented  David Plate , a former trader at Schottenfeld Group
LLC who pleaded guilty and testified at the trial of Galleon
Group trader  Zvi Goffer .  If Gupta were to take the stand, he would face cross-
examination by Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky , who is
experienced at questioning accused insider traders. In 2010,
Brodsky spent parts of two days cross-examining Joseph Contorinis, a former Jefferies Paragon Fund money manager who
was subsequently convicted at trial. Contorinis was sentenced to
six years on prison, while prosecutors had asked for a lengthier
term because they said he lied on the witness stand.  “There’s really no way to tell whether that was some kind
of faked arch tactic, that if you fail, the prosecutor, Reed
Brodsky, would spend all weekend working on his cross-
examination of Rajat Gupta rather than his summation,” Riopelle
said. A defendant taking the stand often allows prosecutors the
chance to reprise their best evidence, he said.  Talking to Jury  “A lot of the time the very successful corporate types
want to testify because they’ve been talking people into doing
things their entire careers, so they think they can do it,” he
said. “But talking to a jury is much different. The smart money
was betting against his taking the stand.”  A defendant taking the stand is a risk, said  Gerald Shargel , a veteran criminal defense lawyer in New York who
represented  Marc Dreier , the New York law firm founder who
pleaded guilty to federal fraud charges.  “The conventional wisdom is that if you feel comfortable
about the weaknesses in the government’s case you don’t have
your client take the stand,” Shargel said. “But if you think
there are points to be explained in the case, you may make that
decision and put them on.”  Shargel said he defended a client accused of  securities
fraud  and bribery who testified in his own defense and was
acquitted after he explained statements that were recorded.  ‘Judgment Call’  “There have been cases lost on the defendant’s testimony
and I’ve seen cases that result in acquittal based on a
defendant’s testimony,” Shargel said. “It’s a case-by-case
judgment call.”  Before dismissing jurors on June 8 for the weekend, Rakoff
told them that their deliberations may begin as early as June
13. The trial began May 21.  After the jury left, Rakoff pressed defense lawyers about
their lineup of witnesses, including whether Gupta would
testify.  “I can say that it’s highly likely that my client will
testify,” Naftalis responded.  Witness Lineup  Rakoff told defense lawyers that they would have to limit
their character witnesses to six, instead of the dozen which
Naftalis had sought to put on the stand.  The judge said prosecutors would need the weekend to
prepare for testimony by Gupta. Naftalis responded that he would
reach out to prosecutors if Gupta decided he wouldn’t testify.  The government rested its case against Gupta on June 8
after Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein
completed his testimony.  Blankfein, under cross-examination from Naftalis,
acknowledged that senior firm executives had briefed outside
analysts in July 2008 on the likelihood that Goldman Sachs would
acquire a bank. The defense brought out the testimony to counter
a prosecution claim that Rajaratnam learned about the bank’s
acquisition plans from Gupta.  Disclosed Information  “Items that your senior management disclose to analysts
are no longer confidential?” asked Naftalis.  “Yes,” Blankfein responded.  Naftalis also attacked an allegation that Gupta leaked tips
on Oct. 23, 2008, about Goldman Sachs’s unprecedented losses
after Gupta learned of them at a meeting that afternoon. Through
questioning by Naftalis, Blankfein testified that board members
had probably been briefed about losses as early as Oct. 13.  Naftalis confronted Blankfein with a news article based on
unidentified sources from the morning of Oct. 23 disclosing
Goldman’s plans, as-yet unannounced, to cut 10 percent of its
staff.  The Goldman Sachs CEO didn’t recall the news story or the
voice-mail he distributed to the firm’s 32,500 employees after
the report came out. Naftalis had Blankfein read part of the
transcript of the voice-mail, including the sentence, “We
regret that many of you heard of this decision from news
accounts.”  Buffett Investment  Other Goldman Sachs executives who testified for
prosecutors included director  William George  and former vice
chairman of investment banking  Byron Trott , the architect of the
$5 billion investment by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway.  Juries heard testimony June 8 from defense witnesses,  Ajit Jain , Berkshire Hathaway’s reinsurance chief and a close friend
of Gupta’s, and Richard Feachem, former executive director of
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis & Malaria.  Jain, whose May 27 testimony was videotaped and played for
the jury because of a scheduling conflict, said he spoke to
Gupta about Rajaratnam on Jan. 12, 2009, when both men met for
lunch in Stamford, Connecticut.  “He told me, as best I can remember, that he had a 10
million investment with Rajaratnam in some venture and he had
been gypped, swindled or cheated by Raj,” Jain said. “He lost
his entire investment with Mr. Rajaratnam.”  “So it wasn’t just an issue of a bad investment?”
Naftalis asked.  “Right,” Jain said.  Falling Out  Jain’s testimony supports the defense’s contention that
Gupta wouldn’t have tipped Rajaratnam because the  fund manager 
and the defendant had a falling out after Rajaratnam lost
Gupta’s entire $10 million investment.  Jain’s recorded testimony is scheduled to continue today.  Rajaratnam was convicted of  insider trading  last year and
is serving an 11-year prison sentence. Unlike Rajaratnam’s
trial, in which prosecutors played recordings of the defendant
in wiretapped phone calls, the Gupta case is built on
circumstantial evidence, including records of trades, mobile-
phone call logs and business deals.  Blankfein testified that he briefed his board over the
phone on the Buffett investment on Sept. 23, 2008, beginning at
3:15 p.m. Within a minute after the call concluded at 3:53 p.m.,
Rajaratnam answered a call from a McKinsey conference room being
used by Gupta, according to phone records and witness testimony.  Call, Shares  Former Galleon trader Ananth Muniyappa testified Rajaratnam
got off a call at that time and hurriedly told him to buy
Goldman Sachs shares. Galleon bought 267,000 shares. Prosecutors
played a wiretapped recording of a Rajaratnam phone call from
the next day.  “I got a call at 3:58, right?” Rajaratnam could be heard
telling trader  Ian Horowitz . “Saying something good might
happen to Goldman.”  Michael Cardillo, a former Galleon portfolio manager who
pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the government, testified
that he traded on P&G stock in 2009 after learning that
Rajaratnam claimed to have a “guy” on the consumer-product
company’s board.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  