-- Germany, Not Greece, Should Exit the Euro
-- B y   R e d   J a h n c k e
-- 2012-06-10T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/forget-greece-a-german-euro-exit-might-be-better.html
All the debate about the pros and
cons of a Greek exit from the euro area is missing the point: A
German exit might be better for all concerned.  Unless  Europe ’s leaders take some kind of radical action,
such as adopting and executing some of the many reform ideas
they have floated, the currency union is headed for
disintegration.  The problems of Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  have spread to
Spain, the fourth-largest economy in the euro area. Italy is
probably next. The other members of the currency union can’t
afford to bail them all out. Further loans will serve only to
exacerbate the fundamental problem of  too much debt  and add to
the growing enmity between the strong northern tier and its
wards to the south. Without healthy economic growth -- and
Europe is now back in a recession -- multiple countries will
have to restructure their sovereign debts.  Greece ’s agonizing
two-year restructuring experience suggests that doing several
more would be extraordinarily difficult, if not impossible.  A Greek exit from the currency union would make the
situation even worse. There is no mechanism to decide, or deal
with, whichever nation might be next, and even that presumes
that exits could be managed. The more terrifying prospect is
that the other afflicted countries might exit in an
uncontrollable panic, complete with bank runs, failures and
general disarray. The accompanying repudiation of hundreds of
billions of euros in debt would overstrain the European
financial system, even  Germany ’s. The global economy would be
paralyzed as everyone wondered which domino would be next to
fall.  German Exit  What, then, might a German exit do? With integration and
multiple restructurings so unlikely and withdrawal of the weak
members so fraught, it might actually be the best of all
available options.  A single, powerful nation would have the best shot at
executing a relatively swift exit that would be over before
anyone could panic. No agonizing over who exits and who doesn’t.
Stripped of its German export powerhouse, the euro would
depreciate sharply, but would not become a virtually worthless
currency, as, for example, any re-issued Greek drachma surely
would. With the euro devalued, a Greek exit and devaluation
would be relatively pointless. So, no contagion or bank runs.
With new exchange rates making all the non-euro financial havens
prohibitively expensive, and with the threat of forced
conversion into devalued national currencies removed, depositors
in southern Europe would lose their impetus to run.  Germany’s exit would provide immediate benefits to all the
remaining euro-area nations. The  currency depreciation  would
radically improve their trade competitiveness -- exactly what
many observers have said the weaker nations in the south need
most. The euro area’s balance of payments would improve,
providing sorely needed funds to service its external debt.
The benefits would accrue to the euro area as a whole, as
opposed to serial exits at the weak end of the spectrum, which
would crush one weak nation after another, with each exit
increasing pressure on the next candidate.  Other relatively strong euro-area nations, such as the
Netherlands, would probably pause before following Germany’s
lead. If they left, they would lose the trade advantages offered
by the newly depreciated currency, and would have to bear all
the costs and complications of reintroducing their own money.  The cheaper euro, of course, would be bad for foreign
investors holding euro-denominated assets. On the bright side,
the losses would be simultaneous in timing, spread evenly across
creditors, and more moderate in the southern European countries
than they would be in a euro-exit scenario.  Vital Interest  Certainly, there are problems not purely related to
currency, including  Spain ’s real-estate bust and its impact on
Spanish banks. Here the devalued currency might bring fresh
foreign investment. Nevertheless, governments might have to bail
out certain European banks struggling with bad assets or
whipsawed somehow by the euro’s devaluation. Collective support
might be required for Greece and others. Germany would still
have reason to assist: Its exit from the euro would not diminish
its vital interest in the survival and success of the European
economy.  While polls suggest that most Germans would be happy to
have their old currency back, Germany would not escape
unscathed. Its exports would contract as the new exchange rate
made German goods much more expensive abroad. It would be
vilified for violating the orthodoxy of Europe’s post-World War
II drive toward integration.  Nevertheless, such a bold move might stave off disaster
today, and it wouldn’t necessarily signal the end of the
European project. Famously, American revolutionaries “ran away
to fight another day,” and they ultimately won. The U.S.
Constitution succeeded brilliantly after the first attempt at
union, the Articles of Confederation, failed.  Indeed, a German exit today might set the stage for a
strong reunion tomorrow. Having learned their lessons and come
to terms with economic reality, the nations of the euro area
might do a better job of integration the second time around.  (Red Jahncke is president of the Townsend Group
International LLC, a business consulting firm in Greenwich,
 Connecticut . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Red Jahncke at  rtjahncke@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  