-- French Open Tennis Final Restarts After Overnight Rain Delay
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-11T11:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/french-open-men-s-final-delayed-by-rain-as-nadal-leads-djokovic.html
The French Open men’s tennis final
restarted after an overnight rain delay with defending champion
 Rafael Nadal  leading 2 sets to 1 over world No. 1 Novak Djokovic.  Play was suspended last night because of rain, pushing the
final into an extra day because of rain for the first time since
1973. Djokovic restarted with a serve at 1:13 p.m. local time,
and was broken to even the set at 2-2.  Spain ’s Nadal eased through the first two sets 6-4, 6-3
yesterday. After dropping the first two games of the third set,
Djokovic turned the match around, winning eight games in a row
to take his first set off Nadal at Roland Garros and going up a
break in the fourth. After Nadal held serve for 1-2, play was
halted and eventually called off.  Organizers initially said the match would resume at 8 p.m.
last night. The crowd on the main Court Philippe Chatrier
whistled and booed when the tournament announced the
postponement as rain continued. The final  started  at 3 p.m. and
was halted for a first time for 34 minutes at the end of the
second set. Intermittent rain is forecast this afternoon at
 Roland Garros , according to the website of  Meteo Consult .  Tournament director Gilbert Ysern told reporters it hadn’t
been possible to start the final an hour sooner because the
forecast kept changing. He denied broadcasting contracts
prevented the match starting earlier yesterday.  “TV does not dictate anything,” Ysern said.  The clay-court tournament at Roland Garros has been
hampered by rain in the past week. It’s the first time since
1973 the event has gone into a third week. In that year, Ilie Nastase beat Niki Pilic in a final that took place two days late
because of bad weather.  History Makers  Unlike the Australian Open and Wimbledon, the  French Open 
doesn’t have a court with a roof. A retractable cover and lights
will be built at its main stadium by 2017.  Both Nadal and Djokovic have a shot at making history. The
right-hander from  Serbia  is now a win away from becoming the
first man in 43 years to win four Grand Slam titles in a row.
Nadal is trying to become the first man to win seven Roland
Garros titles.  Watched by former champion and fellow Mallorcan Carlos Moya, Nadal started off well, going up a double break as he sent
several winners past Djokovic, who struggled to get his first
serve in.  In the opening game of the second set, Djokovic once again
handed Nadal the break with a double fault as drizzle turned to
rain. The Spaniard failed to capitalize, losing his own serve on
a lob by the Serb.  Tantrums  At 2-2, the crowd whistled as Djokovic threw his racket on
the clay after another error. A loud thud reverberated through
the stadium as Djokovic cracked a gaping hole in his bench with
his racket after he lost his serve in the seventh game on a
Nadal forehand winner. After he was given a warning by the chair
umpire, play was suspended because of rain as Nadal led 5-3.
Djokovic slammed the door to the trainers’ room shut before his
coach Marian Vajda could walk in. Nadal used the break to have
his racket re-strung.  Matters didn’t immediately improve for Djokovic after a 34-
minute rain delay, during which his on-court green bench was
replaced with new one. Nadal took a two sets to love lead with a
sliding backhand passing shot.  Momentum Swing  In the third set, the match seemed over as Nadal took a 2-0
lead, only to let Djokovic back into the championship as he took
the next six games with thumping ground strokes. The Spaniard
complained throughout the third set to French chair umpire
Damien Dumusois about the heavy court conditions, questioning
whether play should continue.  At the start of the fourth set, Nadal lost a 45-stroke
rally with a backhand into the net as he was unable to put his
customary spin on the soggy balls, and he eventually dropped his
serve. The Spaniard finally held in the third game, ending a run
of eight games for Djokovic. Play was suspended for a second
time at 2-1 for the Serb, as Nadal angrily complained to
tournament referee Stefan Fransson that he should have acted
sooner.  “Now we have to stop, always the same with you,” Nadal
told the Swede.  “Both players didn’t have any comments about bringing them
back on the court, even if it was spitting a little bit,
Fransson said. “I told them that when they walked out. Then of
course, Rafa was disappointed, not happy, whatever you want to
say, when we stopped in the fourth set.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  