-- Socialists to Take Largest Number of French Parliament Seats
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-06-11T09:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/french-socialists-to-be-largest-group-in-french-parliament.html
French President  Francois Hollande ’s
Socialist Party is set to win the largest number of seats in
parliament, exit polls for the first round of the country’s
legislative elections yesterday showed.  Hollande will have to wait until the June 17 second round
to know if he has an absolute majority or will need allies in
parliament, some of whom say his plans to increase spending and
taxes are too timid.  In yesterday’s round, the Socialist Party and its Green and
Left Front allies took 46.9 percent of the popular vote
nationally, according to pollster Ipsos. Former President
 Nicolas Sarkozy ’s Union for a  Popular Movement  and its allies
got 34.6 percent. The  Interior Ministry  will issue official
results later today.  “The Socialist Party has actually a good chance of winning
an absolute majority on its own,”  Dominique Barbet , an
economist at BNP Paribas SA in Paris, wrote in a note to
clients. “This would be helpful in case Hollande decides to
deliver some austerity in the near future or, possibly, some
structural reforms further down the road.”  Hollande, who won the presidential election on May 6, needs
control of the lower house of parliament to push through his
proposals to rekindle French economic growth and stem the rise
in joblessness, which is at the highest in 13 years. Without a
majority in parliament, a French president is reduced to a
figurehead in domestic policy, retaining only some room for
maneuver on foreign and military policy.  Socialist Parliament  Losing control over parliament has cost earlier presidents.
 Jacques Chirac  couldn’t prevent a Socialist-led parliament from
cutting the French work week to 35 hours in 2000.  Francois Mitterrand  was powerless to stop a conservative government in
the early 1990s from selling companies he’d nationalized.  A majority for Hollande’s party would give France’s
Socialists control of the presidency and the National Assembly
for the first time since 1993. The Socialists took control of
the Senate, the upper house of parliament, last year for the
first time in 50 years.  The election yesterday was fought in 577 constituencies. In
those where no candidate took more than 50 percent in the first
round, contenders with 12.5 percent progress to the next round.  The Socialists alone will win between 275 seats and 305
seats in the second round, Ipsos forecast based on the first-
round results, with 289 seats needed for a majority. CSA,
another pollster, projected 283 to 329 Socialist seats.  No Deal  “The French have listened to Francois Hollande’s call for
change,”  Martine Aubry , head of the Socialist Party, said on
France2 television. “But nothing is decided yet and I’m calling
for a strong mobilization next Sunday.”  Together with the Radical Left Party, the Greens, and the
Left Front, who all disagree with the Socialist Party on some
issues even though they have said they will support Hollande’s
government, the left bloc will have at least 310 seats and maybe
as many as 356 seats, Ipsos predicted.  The UMP and its allies will have between 224 seats and 261
seats, Ipsos said, while CSA forecast 210 to 263, not enough to
control parliament. The anti-euro National Front, which had 13.4
percent of the vote, will win between zero and two seats, Ipsos
forecast. The UMP won’t make any electoral agreements with the
National Front, former Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said.  “I will not call for a vote for candidates who propose
insane solutions such as the end of  Europe , exiting the euro,
and turning in on ourselves,” Fillon said on TF1 television.  Lower Turnout  Turnout in the first round was 57.2 percent, less than the
61 percent in 2007, the Interior Ministry said.  Among individual votes, Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici 
took 40.8 percent in his constituency in eastern France, the
Interior Ministry said. He’s expected to win in the run-off
against candidates from the UMP and the National Front.  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault and Foreign Minister
Laurent Fabius were elected in the first round.  In a closely watched contest in the north of  France  where
Left Front presidential candidate Jean-Luc Melenchon took on
National Front leader Marine le Pen, Melenchon was eliminated in
the first round. Le Pen, who took 42 percent in the first round,
will face a Socialist candidate in a run-off.  Talks between the Left Front and the Socialists to present
common candidates in the legislative elections failed last
month, with Melenchon and Aubry blaming the other for the
breakdown. Even without Melenchon in parliament, the Left Front
could win between 12 seats and 17 seats, Ispos projected.  Melenchon Clash  Melenchon and Hollande have clashed over euro policy. When
Alexis Tsipras, leader of  Greece ’s anti-bailout Syriza party,
visited Paris May 21, Melenchon hosted him at a press conference
and a rally, and derided Hollande as the “candidate of
austerity.”  No Socialists met Tsipras, and Hollande has said Greece
must abide by its rescue deals, even if he has also spoken about
the need for growth measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  