-- Geneva Sees Growth Warnings as Traffic Jams Impede Alpine Appeal
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-06-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/geneva-sees-growth-warnings-as-traffic-jams-impede-alpine-appeal.html
Ivan Pictet, senior partner of
Geneva’s biggest private bank until 2010, is concerned the city
where his family has lived for more than 600 years may be losing
its appeal for multinational companies.  “There may be a lot of red lights appearing,” said
Pictet, citing a housing shortage and transport bottlenecks. As
president of a foundation promoting the city, Pictet, 68,
commissioned a  study  to identify obstacles to economic growth in
the Lake Geneva region.  Geneva, less than a two-hour drive from the ski resorts of
Chamonix and Verbier, has used political stability, low taxes
and quality of life to lure more than 900 multinationals,
including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  That
attraction is threatened as a lack of housing combines with the
strength of the Swiss franc to boost costs and as Switzerland
faces pressure to scrap a tax benefitting foreign companies.  “There is a concern that we have limited resources in
Geneva, and if we don’t manage them correctly, it may lead to
some enterprises or organizations leaving,” said Cedric Dupont,
a professor at the city’s Graduate Institute who is overseeing
part of the research for Pictet. “Space is limited, labor
supply is limited, schools are limited, and due to that prices
are going up and Geneva may become less attractive.”  Geneva’s population growth is outpacing the expansion of
its  property market , leading to a vacancy rate for all types of
accommodation of just 0.25 percent as of last June, according to
 figures  from the canton’s statistic office. That compares with
2.2 percent in London.  Housing Crisis  “We’re in a housing crisis here and everyone has to
address it,” said Remy Pagani, a member of Geneva’s ruling
council who takes over as mayor this month.  Pictet’s study also will examine transport issues following
a 54 percent increase since 2004 in passenger traffic on the
railway between Geneva and Lausanne, the lake region’s second
biggest city.  “We’re lacking a third ‘piste’ on the highway and a third
rail on the railroad system,” said Pictet, adding that
researchers will also analyze the capacity of the Mont Blanc
road bridge and access to Geneva’s airport.  Those bottlenecks and shortages helped make Geneva the
world’s third-most expensive city behind Oslo and Zurich,
according to a UBS AG  survey  published last August. The position
was cemented by Europe’s debt crisis, which pushed up the franc
by more than 15 percent against the dollar and the euro over the
past two years.  Tax Talks  “With the international crisis, the Swiss currency and the
factors associated with housing, we will attract fewer
companies,” said Daniel Loeffler, director of Geneva’s Economic
Development Office.  The pressure on costs comes as the European Union pushes
 Switzerland  to abandon a so-called auxiliary  regime  that allows
multinationals to pay less tax on income from outside the
country.  The regulations permit more than 70 commodity trading
companies in the city to pay an average tax of 12 percent, said
Jacques-Olivier Thomann, president of the  Geneva Trading and
Shipping Association . EU pressure to replace that system with a
single rate for all companies may deter investment, he said.  “When I’m talking to my clients, who are here for tax
reasons mainly, they are very concerned about what’s going to
happen in the next few years,” said Thierry Boitelle, a partner
at Geneva law firm Bonnard Lawson. “They may have to consider
leaving Geneva for tax reasons.”  New Regime  The EU expects progress this month on tax reform talks,
said Emer Traynor, a Brussels-based spokeswoman for Taxation
Commissioner Algirdas Semeta.  David Hiler, Geneva’s finance minister, has said the city
may follow the neighboring canton of Neuchatel in lowering its
standard corporate  tax rate  to about 15 percent from 24.2
percent to offset a potential phase out of the auxiliary regime.  “The problem is the canton can’t reduce the rate too much
without hurting the economy,” said Denis Berdoz, a partner at
 Baker & McKenzie  in Geneva, who specializes in tax and corporate
law. “About 15 percent seems to be a target rate, which may be
competitive compared with other European jurisdictions, but it’s
above the rate many companies pay now.”  In addition to EU pressure, Geneva’s Socialist Party has
the 10,000 signatures needed to prompt a vote on whether to keep
so-called tax holidays, which allow some foreign companies
arriving in the city to pay no cantonal tax for as long as 10
years, said Arnaud Moreillon, the party’s secretary general.  Merck to RWE  Companies such as  Germany ’s Merck KGaA aren’t waiting for
the outcome of the study or the vote.  Merck announced plans last month to close the Serono unit
it bought from billionaire Ernesto Bertarelli in 2007, resulting
in the loss of 1,250 jobs in Geneva. It was “unsustainable” to
have two centers for research and development in  Europe , said
Phyllis Carter, a spokeswoman for the Darmstadt, Germany-based
company. Merck expects the decision to help save about 300
million euros by 2014.  RWE Supply & Trading GmbH, a unit of Germany’s second-
biggest utility, said in January it will eliminate as many as
100 of 160 jobs in Geneva to reduce costs, said Barbara Minderjahn, a spokeswoman for the Essen, Germany-based company.  Procter & Gamble, the biggest multinational employer in
Geneva with 3,000 people, declined to say how many jobs will be
lost in the city as part of a global plan to cut 5,700 non-
manufacturing positions by next June.  Changing Attitude  By contrast, Trafigura Beheer BV, which trades oil,
minerals and metals, has shifted staff from  London  and Lucerne,
Switzerland, in the past two years to make Geneva its main hub
with about 400 employees.  While the findings of Pictet’s study are set for release
later this year, he said signs are everywhere that times have
changed.  “Two years ago when a new multinational was establishing
itself in the Lake Geneva region, you would have headlines in
the local newspaper saying ‘wonderful, hooray, we’ve made 300
jobs,’” Pictet said. “Today there’s been a little bit of a
change of attitude: ‘Gosh, we’ve got another one coming.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  