-- Gold-Investment Demand in China to Advance 10%, ICBC Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-11T08:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/gold-investment-demand-in-china-to-advance-10-icbc-forecasts.html
Gold-investment demand in  China  may
gain more than 10 percent this year as buyers seek a haven from
 Europe ’s debt crisis and the prospect of weakening currencies,
according to the country’s largest bullion bank.  “Investors here want to hold part of their assets in gold
to hedge for the risks, especially now that the financial crisis
has evolved into a sovereign crisis,” Zheng Zhiguang, general
manager of the precious-metals department at Industrial and
 Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , said in an interview in Shanghai.  China will topple  India  this year as the largest bullion
market as rising incomes bolster demand, the World Gold Council
forecasts. Gold may gain for a 12th year in 2012 as European
policy makers strive to avoid a breakup of the  euro zone  and the
U.S. Federal Reserve weighs more stimulus to aid the recovery.
Investors in China, facing lackluster equity markets and
property curbs, are looking more to the metal, Zheng said June 6.  “It’s necessary for individual, institutional or even
government investors to hold gold when the value of money is
decreasing at a time of possible quantitative easing or
excessive money-printing practices,” said Zheng.  Investment demand in China was a record 98.6 metric tons in
the first quarter, 13 percent higher the same period in 2011,
according to figures from the producer-funded council. Last year,
it climbed 38 percent to 258.9 tons compared with 2010, as
overall demand gained 20 percent to 769.8 tons. China’s total
gold demand may reach 1,000 tons this year, the WGC has said.  Debt Crisis  Gold for immediate delivery traded at $1,598.02 an ounce at
4:03 p.m. in  Shanghai , 2.2 percent higher this year. The price
touched $1,526.97 on May 16, the lowest level since December, as
Europe’s debt crisis weakened the euro and investors favored
increased dollar holdings.  While a stronger dollar may pressure bullion, “I’m
optimistic on the  gold prices  in the long term because of the
China demand,” said Zheng. “There are too many uncertainties
now in the global economy, politics and the financial sector.”  ICBC represents more than 20 percent of the turnover on the
Shanghai Gold Exchange, China’s largest spot market for precious
metals, and more than 30 percent of the gold-leasing business in
China, according to Zheng. The lender accounted for about 16
percent of nationwide bullion sales last year.  Gold imports by mainland China from  Hong Kong  climbed 65
percent to a record 103.6 tons in April, according to data from
the Census and Statistics Department of the Hong Kong government
released on June 5. The increase came even as  Lao Feng Xiang Co. (900905) ,
the mainland’s biggest gold-jewelry maker, said in May that
gold-demand growth in China may stagnate this year as falling
prices put off investors and an economic slowdown crimps sales.  Hurt Exports  The second-largest economy expanded 8.1 percent in the
first quarter, the slowest pace in almost three years as
Europe’s crisis hurt exports. Should  Greece  exit the euro, the
expansion may slow to 6.4 percent in 2012 without stimulus,
China International Capital Corp. said on May 23.  China, which on June 7 announced the first cut in borrowing
costs since 2008, has curbed property investments to avoid a
bubble. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  declined 15 percent in the
past year, while spot bullion gained 5.4 percent.  On a three-month basis, gold demand in China eclipsed
India’s over the past two quarters, according to the World Gold
Council. The increased wealth of China’s middle class is helping
to drive consumption,  Albert Cheng , the council’s  Far East 
managing director, said in an interview in May.  Last Resort  Greek voters are set to go the polls for the second time in
two months on June 17 in a vote that may determine whether the
country stays in the 17-nation euro.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
said gold remains the so-called currency of last resort,
forecasting a rally by year-end, according to a May 9 report.  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said on June 9
that he would request as much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion)
in emergency loans from the euro area to shore up the country’s
banking system. That, coupled with weekend trade data from China,
helped to boost stocks and commodities today.  As China allowed investors to buy and hold gold only in
recent years, “there’s explosive, pent-up demand because the
Chinese have an attachment to gold,” said Zheng, predicting
that growth in investment demand will beat the expansion in
jewelry sales. “There’s great potential for expanding China’s
physical-gold investment market.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net ;
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  