-- How Greece Looks From Asia
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-06-10T21:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/greece-s-euro-exit-won-t-look-anything-like-2008.html
Seoul (KOSPI)  may be the most poignant place
one could pick in Asia for a spectator seat at Greece’s economic
implosion.  South Korea ’s crash in 1997 turned a regional financial
crisis into a global one, as a Greek exit from the euro is sure
to do. The difference might be that South  Korea  came back
strong, while it’s hard to see how Greece could do the same.  There’s another difference: What is happening in Europe has
the potential to be far more disruptive to Asia than its own
crisis was for the rest of the world 15 years ago. If Greece
exits the euro region, it may well take Spain, the world’s 12th-
biggest economy, with it.  And that raises a question: Is  Asia  even close to being
ready for a meltdown that might dwarf its own? It doesn’t look
that way.  “The key for Asia isn’t whether Greece leaves, but how,”
says Simon Grose-Hodge, head of investment strategy for South
Asia at LGT Group in Singapore. “A disorderly exit raises the
chance of contagion and more widespread  risk aversion , which
hurts the more volatile markets, like Asia. As we saw in 2008,
the bigger the shock, the bigger the stampede to exit all risky
assets, regardless of merit.”  Korea’s Latitude  First, the good news. Korea has some latitude to throw up
defenses should European contagion head east. The Bank of
Korea’s benchmark interest rate of 3.25 percent leaves plenty of
room for cuts to stimulate the economy. The government also
would have little trouble borrowing to support growth.  In a report on Asia’s exposure to a chaotic Greek divorce,
Moody’s Analytics economists  Fred Gibson  and Glenn Levine found
some room for optimism. Asian businesses and policy makers, they
said, are in a better position heading into a new crisis. The
credit crunch of 2008 and 2009 led Asia’s central banks to
increase swap lines, and companies have mapped out alternative
sources of capital and supply arrangements to better cope with
disruptions.  The bad news is twofold: First, the euro mess, of course,
might be more destabilizing than anything we’ve seen before.
Second, the main engine of Asia’s growth --  China  -- has less
ammunition than in the past. In the last global crunch, after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, China engineered near-
epic fiscal and monetary responses and managed to beat all the
odds with rapid growth rates. China expanded 8.1 percent in the
first three months of this year.  It is doubtful that China can do as much again, though it
does seems to be trying to prepare itself with last week’s cut
in  interest rates . In a recent report, economists at the
nation’s biggest investment bank, China International Capital
Corp., said fallout from  Greece  could reduce China’s expansion
to 6.4 percent this year, the slowest in two decades. For a
nation at China’s level of development, that poses all kinds of
risk, not the least of which is social unrest.  Japan  is vulnerable, too. Japan’s status as a haven has
driven the yen higher against the dollar and the euro, sapping
the vital export sector and hindering the recovery from last
year’s earthquake and tsunami.  Talk about the “Lehman shock” of September 2008 still
pervades Japan. Japanese banks had avoided bets on the toxic
assets that savaged  Wall Street , at first leading some to think
that the country would weather the crisis with minimal harm.
Over time, though, Japan was hurt by its reliance on exports and
its system of cross-shareholdings. The interlocking
relationships, designed to fend off takeovers, ended up
spreading the damage as financial markets plunged. This will
happen in the months ahead, too.  Open Economies  The real drama will be seen first in Asia’s most open
economies because they are so dependent on exports and have few
regulations on  capital markets . Fresh contagion means a
“renewed, deep recession would be highly likely in  Hong Kong ,
 Singapore , Malaysia, Taiwan and Korea,” says Robert Prior- Wandesforde, Singapore-based director of Asian economics at
Credit Suisse AG.  The progress Asia has made strengthening its banks and
amassing currency reserves might limit the worst of the damage.
But credit markets, demand for exports and foreign-investment
flows ensure that Asia will get its share of turbulence.
Depending on the shockwaves Greece causes, each of these
channels will pose challenges to policy makers.  Central bankers and government finance officials must act
to protect Asia’s economic gains over the last decade and a
half. If that means increased borrowing to boost growth, then so
be it. Lower rates may be necessary in a world in which the
risks of deflation outweigh inflation. Capital controls may also
be necessary, provided they are implemented prudently.  An added test will come if the  Federal Reserve  unleashes a
third round of quantitative easing as U.S. growth disappoints.
Asian policy makers have gotten creative about mopping up excess
liquidity that tends to fuel asset bubbles. The challenge is
more about control, ensuring that financial systems aren’t
overwhelmed by hot money.  As  Europe  crashes, Asia risks being tested as rarely
before. It’s great that Asia is better positioned to withstand
the ramifications 15 years after its own near-collapse sent
shockwaves around the globe. It just isn’t clear that will be
enough as the West returns the favor.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: The editors on why  boring banking isn’t
safer  and on  voter registration in Florida ;  Mark Buchanan  on
 testosterone and trading ; William D. Cohan on  watering down
Dodd-Frank ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  November’s election milestones ;
 Simon Johnson  on  why the U.S. needs another systemic-risk
watchdog ;  Pankaj Mishra  on  the growing capitalism-democracy
split ; Red Jahncke on  a German exit from the euro ; Jay S.
Fishman on  how to incubate small businesses.   To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  