-- Greek Blackouts Risked as Power Companies’ Cash Runs Out: Energy
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-06-11T12:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/greek-blackouts-risked-as-power-companies-cash-runs-out-energy.html
Greece faces the threat of rolling
power blackouts as the economic crisis leaves utilities without
cash to pay for natural-gas imports and operate power stations.  Regulators will meet with Greece’s power market operator as
early as today to discuss an emergency loan of 300 million euros
($375 million) to cover payments for gas imports from  Russia ’s
 OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ,  Turkey ’s Botas AS and  Italy ’s  Eni SpA. (ENI)  The
country’s largest power producer is almost out of money and
likely to default after unpaid accounts jumped more than 50
percent in a year, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  As Greece prepares for a second national election in six
weeks, a vote that may determine whether it remains in the euro,
the collapse of the energy sector has emerged as a risk for a
country that imports most of its oil and gas. At the start of
the main vacation season, power cuts that leave tourists trapped
in dark hotels without air conditioning would be a further blow
to an economy in its fifth year of recession.  “Blackout is definitely a risk,”  Olivier Jakob , managing
director of Zug, Switzerland-based energy consultant Petromatrix
GmbH, said in a telephone interview. “Greece is going to face
higher costs because suppliers will want to have better creditor
protection. And if the country cannot pay the bill, well, it’s a
real problem.”  Public Power Corp SA (PPC) , the biggest electricity producer, is
on the verge of default, Standard & Poor’s analysts Nicolas
Rivier and Vittoria Ferraris said in a June 7 report. PPC, as
the Athens-based company is known, has seen cash flow drop as
unemployment and falling wages leave many Greeks unable to pay
power bills. A lack of cash to pay operating expenses may force
the closure of some power stations.  Limited Liquidity  PPC spokesman Kimon Steriotis said there was no immediate
danger of power cuts because coal-fired stations were well-
supplied and reservoirs at hydroelectric plants full.  Power
plants  on islands not connected to the national grid also had
ample fuel, ensuring power supplies during the tourist season,
he said in an e-mail. He didn’t comment on the prospect of the
company defaulting.  PPC, 51 percent owned by the state, is struggling to manage
its 4.85 billion-euro debt as it faces “extremely limited
liquidity” and must refinance 525 million euros by June 29,
Chief Executive Officer Arthouros Zervos said on a conference
call with analysts on May 29.  “PPC has almost fully depleted its liquidity, owing to
sharply falling earnings, climbing overdue receivables, and the
absence of new credit facilities,” S&P said in the report,
cutting the company’s rating to the lowest level above default.
“PPC will likely default on its obligations in the near term.”  Depend on Imports  With practically no gas or oil deposits of its own,  Greece 
depends heavily on imports to keep power production and the
transportation sector going. Oil represented about 55 percent of
the country’s total primary energy supply while natural gas
accounted for 11 percent in 2008, according to the  International
Energy Agency .  The prospect of sporadic power shortages come as officials
grapple with a mounting social crisis. Unemployment is at 22
percent, the country faces shortages of imported food and drugs,
and  Bank of America  Corp. says the country may run out of cash
by early July.  The Greek  electricity market  operator has applied to the
Greek Deposits and Loans Fund for a 300 million-euro loan to pay
off its debt to PPC and other energy companies, which in turn
owe 300 million euros to Greece’s gas company Depa, its
spokesman said. Depa, which buys gas from Gazprom, Botas and
Eni, has threatened to cut supply if it isn’t paid promptly.  Limited Blackouts  Although gas provides only 22 percent of Greece’s power
supply -- the majority comes from domestically mined coal --
disruption to imports could force limited blackouts, said Paris Mantzavras, an energy analyst at  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  in Athens.  “If gas supplies are completely cut off, then yes, there
is a danger of blackouts,” he said in an interview. “Not major
ones, but probably some rolling blackouts. It would be critical
for the industry and manufacturing sector, and for tourism too.
I would expect the government to do its best to avoid a complete
cutoff.”  Tourism is Greece’s biggest industry, accounting for almost
16 percent of the economy in 2001, according to the London-based
 World Travel and Tourism Council .  Crude Supplies  Supplies of crude oil are also in question. Greece had been
importing the majority of its oil from  Iran , which stopped
shipments at the end of March because of Greece’s failure to pay
up. The country has since been forced to seek other suppliers
from the  Middle East , central  Asia  and  Libya  under less
favorable conditions, analysts say.  “They have to rely on a couple of traders able or willing
to handle the risk,” Petromatrix’s Jakob said. “But that comes
at a price, of course.”  Greece agreed to reforms in the energy sector, including
opening up the electricity market faster, as part of pledges to
receive a 110 billion-euro bailout in May 2010 and a second aid
package of 130 billion euros this year. Plans to sell energy
plants and cut the state’s holding in PPC have been put on hold
until after the election.  Election Campaign  The six-week election campaign has kept Greece from solving
even its most immediate problems. The process led to a decline
in state revenue collection, a standstill in the state-asset
sales program and putting off a permanent bank recapitalization
plan until after a new Cabinet is formed.  The upcoming election may determine whether the country
stays in the 17-nation euro. The inconclusive May 6 ballot
showed gains for parties, led by Syriza, that oppose terms of
the country’s bailouts from the European Union and the IMF.  Syriza leader Alexis Tsipras has said he will halt state-
asset sales and nationalize banks if he wins the June vote.
After political party leaders failed to form a coalition
government in May, speculation that Greece will abandon the euro
rose.  The  Athens  Stock Exchange index has fallen 21 percent since
May 6 and the euro has weakened 4 percent against the dollar.
Public Power shares dropped 2.1 percent to 1.40 euros at 3:22
p.m. in Athens today.  An exit would see the government take control of all oil
and gas imports as the state managed limited foreign currency
reserves, said Elias Konofagos, vice president of Athens-based
consultant Flow Energy & Environment Operations SA.  “For a long period of time they would import a portion of
what’s needed, which would lead to rationing, even for gas for
cars,” Konofagos said in an interview.  Meanwhile, PPC is struggling to collect payments from
customers. The utility was owed 763 million euros from non-
industrial customers in March, compared with 414 million euros
the same month a year earlier. The jump came after the
government announced a property levy in September which was
collected through electricity bills.  “Greece’s energy sector could collapse,” S&P said.
“Repeated blackouts likely to ensue might discourage users from
paying their electricity bills.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  