-- Liechtenstein Informs Bank Clients of U.S. Tax-Evasion Request
-- B y   D y l a n   G r i f f i t h s
-- 2012-06-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/liechtenstein-informs-bank-clients-of-u-s-tax-evasion-request.html
Liechtenstein, an Alpine country of
36,000 people, has told American clients of the principality’s
oldest bank that U.S. authorities have requested their account
data as they widen a tax-evasion probe.  Accounts at  Liechtensteinische Landesbank AG (LLB)  that contained
at least $500,000 at any time since the beginning of 2004 are
covered by the information request, according to a May 30 letter
sent to a client by the principality’s tax authority.
Liechtenstein facilitated the so-called group request from the
U.S. by amending a tax law in March.  Liechtenstein’s second-biggest bank, also known as LLB, is
one of 11 financial firms, including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and
 Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , being investigated as part of a U.S.
probe of offshore tax evasion. The stakes for Swiss banks were
raised after the  Department of Justice  indicted Wegelin & Co. on
Feb. 2 for allegedly helping customers hide money from the
 Internal Revenue Service .  “The motivation for the law is the Landesbank issue, which
has accelerated the process,” said Mario Frick, a partner at
Liechtenstein law firm Seeger, Frick & Partner. “For a certain
period of time, it will be possible to make group requests to
clean up the past and the issue of legacy assets.”  Landesbank, which had 48.1 billion Swiss francs ($50
billion) of assets under management at the end of 2011,
confirmed it has received a group request via the Liechtenstein
authorities, Cyrill Sele, a spokesman for the bank in Vaduz,
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Third Parties  “The ruling to extend the period of applicability back to
the tax year 2001 in the administrative assistance law with the
U.S. is limited to 12 months from the date it comes into
force,” said Sele. It “is closely linked to the ongoing U.S.
offshore voluntary disclosure program.”  Those affected by the U.S. request for information have the
right to appeal, according to the letter.  In the Liechtenstein group request, U.S. authorities are
also targeting lawyers, accountants, financial advisers, asset
managers and those responsible for professional “asset
protection,” who “conspired with a U.S. taxpayer to commit U.S.
crimes or provided assistance,” according to the letter.  “It’s a sign that the U.S. is not just focused on
 Switzerland , but on all offshore jurisdictions with  Singapore ,
Dubai and  Hong Kong  very much on the radar screen,” said Milan Patel, a partner at Zurich-based law firm Anaford AG. “This
request appears to be much more expansive than the agreement
with Switzerland and aims to get information on third parties.”  UBS Precedent  Swiss banks are seeking a settlement with the U.S. as
Liechtenstein’s larger Alpine neighbor, the world’s biggest
center for offshore wealth, tries to shed its image as a haven
for undeclared assets. That may involve negotiating separate
deferred prosecution agreements with U.S. authorities.  UBS AG, the biggest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution in 2009
by paying $780 million, admitting it fostered  tax evasion  and
giving the IRS data on more than 250 accounts. It later turned
over data on another 4,450 accounts. Before the UBS deferred-
prosecution deal, U.S. prosecutors said the bank managed $20
billion in undeclared assets for American clients.  Landesbank declined to comment on whether the handover of
account data under the group request would allow the bank to
enter a deferred prosecution agreement.  Christof Buri, a spokesman for larger Liechtenstein rival
LGT Group, which had 86.9 billion francs of assets under
management at the end of last year, said the bank only has tax-
compliant U.S. clients. The bank, owned by Liechtenstein’s
princely family, declined to comment further.  Unwinding Secrecy  Liechtenstein started to unwind secrecy after data stolen
from LGT was used by  Germany  to prosecute tax evaders in 2008.
Former  Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  Chief Executive Officer Klaus Zumwinkel
was convicted of tax evasion and received a two-year suspended
prison sentence plus a penalty of 1 million euros ($1.25
million).  Under pressure from the U.S., Germany and  France ,
Liechtenstein said in March 2009 that it would conform with tax
standards set out by the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development to avoid being blacklisted as a tax haven.  Markus Amman, a spokesman for the Liechtenstein government,
and Katja Gey, who helped negotiate a tax deal for the
principality with the U.K., didn’t answer calls to their mobile
phones.  “It’s only a question of time, say three to five years,
when this type of group request will become standard for future
business,” said lawyer Frick. “Liechtenstein is a small
country that has had a reputation for not cooperating in the
field of tax and that’s something that has to change. We have to
find new areas of business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dylan Griffiths in Geneva at 
 dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  