-- Improving Tech Outlook Spurs Rally for Tower: Israel Overnight
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-10T13:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/improving-tech-outlook-spurs-rally-for-tower-israel-overnight.html
Israeli shares  traded in New York
posted their best weekly gain since April after valuations
slumped from their 2012 peak and the outlook for technology
companies improved.  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the most traded
Israeli companies in New York added 4.5 percent to 82.41 last
week, the biggest advance since April 20.  Check Point Software
Technologies Ltd. (CHKP) , the world’s second-largest maker of security
networks, added 6.4 percent, snapping its longest weekly losing
streak since 2007.  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM) , a maker of
customized chips, gained the most since the week to March 23.
Tower declined 0.3 percent at the close in  Tel Aviv  today.  New York-traded Israeli companies are  valued  at 12.6 times
estimated earnings, compared with a 2012 peak of 14.8 on April
19 and a multiple of 15.4 for the average company on the Nasdaq
Composite Index.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest maker of
analog chips, will update its second-quarter forecast on June 11
and will probably maintain its midpoint  revenue  target of $3.35
billion, according to reports from Stifel Nicolaus & Co. and
Williams Financial Group Inc.  “The sell-off last month has made a lot of the stocks look
very cheap and tech investors are looking and saying: These are
really good levels to buy at,”  Jay Srivatsa , equity research
analyst at Chardan Capital Markets LLC, said by phone from New
York June 8. “There is also expectation Texas Instruments will
provide guidance that shows the technology business is still
pretty strong. If it reports as expected, we should see a broad-
based rally that boosts Israeli stocks.”  ‘Very Compelling’  Israel’s  TA-25 benchmark gauge  gained 0.5 percent to
1,094.66, the highest close since May 16. The gauge has added
0.8 percent in this year, compared with an advance of 1.4
percent for the  Israel-US Equity Index. (ISRA25BN)   Check Point , based in Tel Aviv, rose to $53.67 in New York,
its first five-day gain in seven weeks. The company trades at a
multiple of 16.8 times estimated earnings, compared with 18.2 on
April 30, before the shares  slumped  12 percent in May.  Shares of Tower advanced 9.8 percent to 82 cents in New
York last week. The company trades at 2.3 times estimated
earnings, compared with a multiple of 4.5 on May 1. Tower slid
21 percent  last month , the sharpest drop since August.  The company’s Tel Aviv stock fell to 3.171 shekels in
Israel today, or the equivalent of 82 cents.  “There is a sense the stocks were way oversold and they
now look very compelling,” Srivatsa said.  Bellwether  Texas Instruments forecast second-quarter revenue in the
range of $3.22 billion to $3.48 billion, the Dallas-based
company said in a statement on April 23. The mean  estimate  of 34
economists surveyed by Bloomberg shows sales dropping to $3.37
billion from $3.46 billion a year ago.  Personal computer sales are forecast to decline 10 percent
in  North America  and western Europe on weaker demand in the
second quarter, according to International Data Corporation
data.  Weaker sales are expected to erode second-quarter earnings
for  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,  Acer Inc. (2353)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , three
 customers  of Texas Instruments, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “There has been a lot of fear in recent weeks that a soft
PC market could be an indication of a bad technology market,”
 Cody Acree , director of equity research for Williams Financial
Group, said by phone from  Dallas  on June 8.  Texas Instruments is viewed as a bellwether for the
technology industry, with customers ranging from
telecommunication to consumer electronic firms, Acree said.  The company will probably maintain the midpoint of its
guidance of $3.35 billion on June 11, Williams Financial and
Stifel Nicolaus said in reports last week.  Removing Concern  “If the guidance doesn’t come in negative, it will remove
some portion of concern,” Acree said. “I see that helping the
tech stocks related to Israel.”  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the Israeli maker of home
soda machines, jumped 17 percent to $35.36 in New York, the
biggest weekly advance since Jan. 6.  The company said June 4 that it would begin developing co-
branded soda makers with Breville Group, an Australian designer
of consumer appliances.  Allot Communications Co. (ALLT) , an Israeli maker of networking
equipment, added 6.4 percent to $26.33 in New York, its third
consecutive weekly gain. The Tel Aviv shares advanced 2.5
percent today to 104 shekels, or $26.84, the highest on record.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies trading on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any nation outside the U.S. after
China. The country is also home to more startup companies per
capital than the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  