-- Infosys Skirts Italy, Spain Software Deals on Euro Crisis
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-06-11T05:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/infosys-skirts-italy-spain-software-deals-on-euro-crisis.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-largest
software exporter, is shunning  Italy  and  Spain  as risks from the
worsening sovereign-debt crisis outweigh a goal of doubling the
share of sales from Europe.  “We have stayed away from these markets,” said B.G. Srinivas, head of Europe at Bangalore-based Infosys, referring
to Greece,  Portugal , Italy and Spain. “Especially in a crisis,
I don’t think that we will revisit that decision soon. It’s the
wrong time to enter.”  Uncertainty over payments and exchange-rate volatility
means Indian software companies are wary of striking outsourcing
deals in Europe’s weaker economies even as they try to reduce
their dependence on the U.S. for revenue. Spain became the
fourth euro member to seek a bailout since the start of the
crisis with a request on June 9 for as much as 100 billion euros
($126 billion) to rescue its banks.  Infosys’s strategy underlines the chilling effect the
turmoil in Europe is having on companies and economies around
the world. With the euro area registering no growth in the first
quarter and India’s expansion the slowest in nine years, Infosys
is betting it can do without a slice of the combined 58 billion
euros that  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  estimates governments and
businesses in Italy and Spain will spend on information
technology goods and services in 2012.  ‘Right Strategy’  “It’s the right strategy,” said Shashi Bhusan, an analyst
at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai who rates Infosys  buy .
“If an implosion happens in the  euro zone , there’s going to be
a wider impact -- not just in terms of IT spending.”  Forrester predicts the European information technology
market could shrink by as much as 10 percent in 2012 if a
country exits the euro. The single currency slipped to an almost
two-year low against the dollar this month as policy makers
clash over how to resolve the crisis, now in its third year.  Citigroup Inc. economists are assuming as a “base case”
that Greece will leave the single currency on Jan. 1, 2013. Bank
of America Merrill Lynch strategists estimate the euro-region’s
gross domestic product would contract at least 4 percent in the
recession that follows, similar to the decline suffered after
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse.  Infosys has declined 12 percent in Mumbai trading this
year, compared with a 6.3 percent gain for larger rival  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  India’s benchmark Sensitive Index has
rallied 9.1 percent. Infosys, which  slumped  the most in almost
three years on April 13 after forecasting full-year sales that
missed analyst estimates, rose 1.2 percent to 2,448.15 rupees as
of 11:06 a.m. local time.  Double Share  Infosys, which aims to almost double the share of revenue
from European customers to 40 percent from  22 percent  in the
year ended March 31, has said it is prepared to spend as much as
$500 million on a single acquisition in a European market. Tata
Consultancy, based in Mumbai, is also weighing acquisitions in
 France ,  Germany ,  Japan  and the U.S., Chief Executive Officer
Natarajan Chandrasekaran said in September.  The U.S., the world’s biggest market for IT services, buys
about 60 percent of the South Asian country’s computer services,
according to the National Association for Software & Services
Companies.  North America  accounted for 65 percent of Infosys’s
sales last year, according to its annual report.  Infosys still sees opportunities in parts of Europe where
companies are striving to compete in the global market, Srinivas
said.  “There’s definitely a perceptible shift in the mindset of
companies” in Germany and France, he said. “They’re definitely
looking at increasing their own competitiveness because they’re
competing globally with the American companies, the Japanese
companies, the Koreans. So, they have to improve their internal
cost base.”  Currency Volatility  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT) , the New Delhi-based software
exporter which outbid Infosys to  acquire  U.K.-based Axon Group
in 2008, is mainly focused on the U.K., and Nordic, French and
German-speaking countries, according to  Rajeev Sawhney ,
president for European operations. HCL doesn’t have local teams
in  Greece , Portugal, Spain and Italy, he said.  “I would hesitate from going into the turmoil at this
stage,” said Sawhney. “It could have other repercussions --
whether you’d get paid, whether you’d get paid on time. What
could be the volatility in the currency exchange rate?”  HCL is targeting companies in Europe which are adopting
austerity measures and who need help implementing cost cuts,
said Sawhney. The pressure on corporate budgets means there is
an increasing percentage of “first-time outsourcers” in the
region, he said.  Revenue from Europe at Infosys grew 26 percent in the 12
months ended March 31, double the previous year’s pace, to 66.1
billion rupees ($1.2 billion), according to the company’s annual
report. Sales in the North American market increased 21 percent
in the period to 203.5 billion rupees.  Rating Downgrades  Brokerages including Nomura Holdings Inc., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Macquarie Group Ltd. and CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
 cut their recommendations  on Infosys in April after the software
exporter’s annual sales forecast trailed estimates.  Infosys on April 13 predicted sales in the year that began
April 1 will be between 384.3 billion rupees and 391.4 billion
rupees. That  lagged behind  the 396.3 billion-rupee median of 64
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Meanwhile the financial turmoil in  Europe  has shown little
sign of ending. While European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  left the door open at a June 6 press conference to a rate
cut, he highlighted the limitations of the ECB’s tools as policy
makers race to avoid the breakup of the single currency.  “As long as the implosion doesn’t happen -- the overall
uncertainty is something all of us can handle because we are all
prepared for it,” said Srinivas. “As long as that continues,
business will be steady. If implosion happens, we’ll have a very
unpredictable situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  