-- Spain Is Held 1-1 by Italy at Euro 2012; Croatia Beats Ireland
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-06-10T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/italy-defending-champion-spain-tie-1-1-at-soccer-s-euro-2012.html
Spain  was held to a 1-1 tie by Italy
last night as it started its bid to become the first team to
retain the European Championship soccer title. Croatia tops
Group C after a 3-1 win against Ireland.  Substitute Antonio Di Natale gave Italy the lead on 61
minutes in Gdansk, Poland, with Cesc Fabregas tying the match
only three minutes later.  “Of course we wanted to win here but I am not leaving
feeling frustrated as I thought we put in a good performance,”
Spain coach Vicente del Bosque told reporters. “We know how
this type of game is, though, and this one was quite balanced.”  Two-time champion Spain also holds the  World Cup  and can
achieve an unprecedented three straight major world and
continental titles if it wins the final. Italy is aiming to win
the competition for a first time since 1968.  Mario Mandzukic got two goals, while Nikica Jelavic also
scored for two-time quarterfinalist Croatia in Poznan, Poland,
to end Ireland’s 14-match unbeaten run.  Spain, ranked No. 1 by world governing body FIFA, began its
match without a recognized striker, Fabregas playing as a
forward, while No. 12 Italy started with six Juventus players
including Emanuele Giaccherini for his debut.  “We were a little surprised with Spain’s lineup but we
agreed that we needed to focus on our own game,” Italy coach
Cesare Prandelli told reporters.  Early Chances  The Spanish had the game’s early chances,  David Silva 
firing over the bar and then hitting a low 15-yard shot that was
easily gathered by goalkeeper  Gianluigi Buffon .  On 13 minutes,  Andrea Pirlo  forced Spain’s Iker Casillas to
tip wide a 20-yard free kick and  Antonio Cassano  hit an effort
just off target soon after.  Andres Iniesta  had a couple of opportunities before
halftime as Spain dominated possession, but Italy had the
clearest chances. Claudio Marchisio hit a first-time shot from
outside the penalty area straight at Casillas on 36 minutes,
while at the end of the half the goalkeeper blocked a close-
range header from Thiago Motta.  Spain also started the second half better as Fabregas
tested Buffon and Iniesta fired across goal.  Italy’s  Mario Balotelli  should, though, have scored on 54
minutes as he robbed  Sergio Ramos  and advanced into the penalty
area. He delayed his shot too long, allowing Ramos to recover.  Substitute Scores  Balotelli was replaced two minutes later by  Di Natale , who
then put his team ahead. The substitute collected a pass from
Pirlo and curled the ball past Casillas. The lead was short-
lived, Fabregas shooting low into the net.  Fernando Torres  came on for Fabregas and wasted several
opportunities to give Spain the win. First he was tackled by
Buffon after hesitating when through on goal, and later he
chipped over the bar with the goalkeeper stranded.  In between Torres’s chances, Di Natale was unable to get a
close-range volley on target.  “What disappointed me about this evening was that we
allowed them to equalize so quickly,” Prandelli said. “We were
playing against the world champions but we should have made it
more difficult for them after we scored.”  Both Italy and Spain have one point, with  Croatia  on three.
Croatia led Ireland after three minutes when Mandzukic headed
past Shay Given, but Ireland responded with a goal from Sean St.
Ledger on 19 minutes.  Halftime Lead  Croatia led at halftime as Jelavic scored late in the half,
then Mandzukic got his second four minutes after the interval
from a header that hit a post and bounced off the head of Given
into the net.  “We conceded sloppy goals, we’re normally quite tight,”
St. Ledger told ITV1. “When you’re 3-1 down against a team like
Croatia it’ll always be tough.”  Ireland’s Giovanni Trapattoni yesterday became the oldest
coach at a European Championship at age 73 years, 85 days.  The teams play their second games on June 14. Italy faces
Croatia, while Spain plays Ireland.  In today’s games, the first in Group D, France plays
England in Donetsk and Ukraine faces Sweden in Kiev.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 