-- Italy Moves Into Debt-Crisis Crosshairs After Spain
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   N a d i n e   S k o c z y l a s
-- 2012-06-11T17:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/italy-moves-into-debt-crisis-crosshairs-after-spain-bank-rescue.html
The 100 billion-euro ($126 billion)
rescue for Spain’s banks moved  Italy  to the front line of
Europe’s debt crisis, as the country’s bonds and equities
slumped on concern it may be the next to succumb.  Italy’s 10-year bonds reversed early gains today in the
first trading after the Spanish bailout. Their yield rose by the
most in a day since Dec. 8, adding 27 basis points to 6.04
percent. Shares of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the country’s largest bank,
had their steepest decline in five months.  “The scrutiny of Italy is high and certainly will not
dissipate after the deal with Spain,” Nicola Marinelli, who
oversees $153 million at Glendevon King Asset Management in
London, said in an interview. “This bailout does not mean that
Italy will be under attack, but it means that investors will pay
attention to every bit of information before deciding to buy or
to sell Italian bonds.”  Italy has 2 trillion euros of debt, more as a share of its
economy than any developed nation other than Greece and  Japan .
The Treasury has to sell more than 35 billion euros of bonds and
bills per month -- more than the annual output of each of the
three smallest euro members, Cyprus, Estonia and  Malta .  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said on June 9
that he would request as much as 100 billion euros in emergency
loans from the euro area to shore up a banking system hobbled by
more than 180 billion euros of bad assets. Mounting concern
about the state of  Spain ’s banks and public finances drove the
country’s borrowing costs to near euro-era records last month,
pushing up Italian rates in the process.  Reversing Gains  The euro initially gained as much as 1 percent before
erasing the advance and weakening 0.2 percent to $1.2493 at 6:30
p.m. in  Rome . The yield on 10-year Italian bonds fell as much as
15 basis points before rising, widening the spread with
benchmark German notes by 28 basis points to 473 basis points.  UniCredit shares declined 8.8 percent, leading a 2.8
percent drop in the  FTSE MIB Index. (FTSEMIB)   “The problem for Italy is that where Spain goes, there’s
always the perception that Italy could follow,” Nicholas Spiro,
managing director at Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London , said in
an interview. “There is insufficient differentiation within the
financial markets. It is clear as the light of day and has been
that Spain’s fundamentals are a lot direr than Italy’s. That
hasn’t stopped Italy suffering from Spanish contagion.”  Italy is on track to bring its budget deficit within the
European Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product this
year and the country is already running a surplus before
interest payments, meaning its debt will soon peak at about 120
percent of GDP. The jobless rate is less than half of Spain’s 24
percent, and Italy didn’t suffer a real estate bust, leaving its
banks healthy by southern European standards. The  budget deficit 
was 3.9 percent of GDP last year, less than half that of Spain.  Economy Contracting  Italy’s total  debt  of more than twice Spain’s has given
investors pause, especially in a country where economic growth
has lagged the EU average for more than a decade. The euro
region’s third-biggest economy, Italy is set to contract 1.7
percent this year, more than the 1.6 percent in Spain, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development estimates.  Italy’s debt load had traditionally led the country to be
perceived as a bigger credit risk than Spain. At the start of
this year, Italy’s 10-year bond yielded 202 basis points  more 
than that of Spain. As the extent of Spain’s banking woes became
more evident and the country was forced to raise its deficit
target,  that spread  reversed and now Spain’s 10-year yields 48
points more than Italy’s.  Foreign Exodus  Debt agency head Maria Cannata last week said that fewer
foreign investors were turning up at Italian auctions in recent
months and that the country could still finance at yields as
high as 8 percent.  The exodus of foreign buyers has left the Treasury more
dependent on  Italian banks , which in turn have been among the
biggest borrowers in the  European Central Bank ’s three-year
lending operations. Italy returns to markets before Spain does,
selling as much 6.5 billion euros of treasury bills on June 13,
followed by a bond auction the next day.  “If Italy has a problem with accessing the markets because
investors lose confidence in the Italian ability to do the right
thing, the ECB will be drawn into the fire,”  Thomas Mayer , an
economic adviser to Deutsche Bank AG, said in a telephone
interview. “That could pose a potentially lethal threat to
European monetary union.”  ECB Firepower  Given the size of Italy’s debt, only the ECB has the
firepower to rescue the country and yet deploying that
ammunition -- through buying back bonds or making more long-term
loans -- may prove unacceptable to  Germany  and its allies in
northern  Europe , Mayer said.  “The ECB will probably have to restart buying bonds but
there will be a lot of sellers into that of people who are
worried that Spain is the next Greece and Italy the next
Spain,” said Lex Van Dam, who manages $500 million at Hampstead
Capital LLC in London.  There may be little Italy can do on its own to protect
itself. Prime Minister  Mario Monti , appointed by the president 
to succeed  Silvio Berlusconi  in November when Italy’s 10-year 
yield exceeded 7 percent, has implemented 20 billion euros of 
austerity measures, overhauled the pensions system and revamped 
the county’s labor markets and service industries.  Monti’s efforts helped shave more than 200 basis points off
the 10-year yield by February, before the turmoil in  Greece  and
Spain’s banking woes began driving up rates. Now with final
passage of some of his reforms bogging down in parliament, Monti
is pressing European allies to pivot from austerity to pro-
growth policies.  “Mr. Monti seems to be infinitely more concerned about
what’s going on abroad than what’s going on in parliament,”
Spiro said. “Understandably so, because Italy has not been a
master of its own fate for a long time. He’s perfectly aware
that in order to fix Italy, they have to fix the  euro zone .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Skoczylas in Rome at 
 nelsibai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  