-- Japan’s Manufacturers Stay Pessimistic as Yen Tightens Grip
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-06-10T23:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/japan-s-manufacturers-stay-pessimistic-as-yen-tightens-grip.html
Japan ’s largest manufacturers were
pessimistic about business prospects for a third consecutive
quarter as the yen’s strength and the prospect of power
shortages this summer dimmed confidence.  Sentiment among manufacturers with more than 1 billion yen
($12.6 million) in capital was minus 5.7 points this quarter,
compared with minus 7.3 three months ago, a government report
showed in Tokyo today. A negative number means pessimists
outnumber optimists.  Companies including  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401) 
are preparing power-saving measures as the government,
forecasting a shortfall this summer, will ask users to cut
consumption. A yen that’s advanced against the dollar since mid-
March is threatening the profits of exporters, who are also
contending with a slowdown in global demand.  “Manufacturers will not drastically revise up their
capital investment plans due to the headwind of the strong
currency,” Naoki Iizuka, a senior economist at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo, said before the report. “They might
increase capacity overseas, but nothing in domestic markets.”  Today’s report offers a hint of the results likely in the
 Bank of Japan (8301) ’s Tankan survey. The nation’s most closely watched
gauge of corporate confidence is due July 2.  Economic growth may slow by more than half from the first
quarter, when gross domestic product rose at a 4.7 percent pace
from the previous three months. Bloomberg News surveys of
economists indicate GDP gains of 2 percent this quarter and 1.6
percent in the final three months of 2012.  Haven demand for the yen as the euro area crisis deepens
threatens to undermine export growth. Toyota President  Akio Toyoda , speaking June 4 as chairman of the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association, said the yen is a “major concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  