-- Kenyan Presidential Candidate, Five Others Die in Air Crash
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-06-10T10:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/kenyan-presidential-candidate-five-others-die-in-air-crash-1-.html
Kenyan Internal Security Minister
George Saitoti, who planned to run for the presidency next year,
was among six people killed today in a helicopter crash, the
presidency said.  Saitoti, 66, Assistant Internal Security Minister Orwa
Ojode, two pilots and two bodyguards died when the aircraft
crashed in Ngong Forest on the outskirts of the capital, Nairobi,
Presidential Press Service spokesman Isaiah Kabira said in a
phone interview. The incident is being treated as an accident,
Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  told reporters at the crash site.  “Saitoti will forever be remembered as a hardworking and
determined public servant who dedicated his time to the service
of the Kenyan people,” President Mwai Kibaki said in an e-mailed
statement.  Saitoti served as vice president of  Kenya , the world’s
largest exporter of black tea and  East Africa ’s biggest economy,
under former President Daniel Arap Moi. He also previously held
the portfolios of finance minister, education minister and
national planning minister, and was appointed to his current
post in January 2008. He planned to seek the presidency in
elections next year, the Nairobi-based  Star  newspaper reported
in December.  Goldenberg Scandal  In 2006, Saitoti stepped down as education minister after a
commission of inquiry into the so-called Goldenberg corruption
scandal, in which the Kenyan government lost almost $1 billion,
recommended he face criminal prosecution. The  High Court  ruled
that Saitoti shouldn’t be charged and he was reinstated as
minister later that year.  The police helicopter in which Saitoti was travelling
crashed while en route to a function in the western Nyanza
province, Kabira said.  The aircraft went down at 4 a.m. this morning, Odinga said
as Kenya Red Cross workers continued to remove bodies from the
burnt wreckage of the aircraft. The site is being secured to
establish the cause of the crash, Odinga said.  The presidency identified the other victims of the crash as
police Inspector Joshua Tonkei and Sergeant Thomas Murimi, along
with pilots Luke Oyugi and Nancy Gituanja.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 