-- Kerviel Judge Says Subprime Evidence Old, Wants Testimony
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-11T17:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/kerviel-s-subprime-conspiracy-theory-aired-in-socgen-loss-appeal.html
Evidence  Jerome Kerviel  presented to
support claims  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  let him amass 50 billion
euros ($63 billion) in stock index futures trades so it could
later hide losses on subprime loans shows “nothing new” to the
Paris judge hearing the appeal against his 2010 conviction.  Judge Mireille Filippini, who last week demanded evidence
from Kerviel’s lawyers to support allegations he was caught up
in a conspiracy, said an unsigned letter and documents related
to a Societe Generale account’s trades from January 2008 wasn’t
sufficient.  The anonymous letter was “founded on rumors,” and the
documents show “nothing new to the court,” Filippini said
today. After she ordered Kerviel’s attorneys to disclose who
wrote the letter, Kerviel’s lead lawyer David Koubbi identified
the author as Philippe Hoube, who works at brokerage Newedge
Group SA, where Kerviel passed many of his orders.  “I want to hear from this man,” Filippini said and
scheduled a hearing for June 14 for Hoube and Maxime Kahn, who
unwound Kerviel’s unauthorized trades, to testify.  Newedge didn’t immediately respond to a call for comment.  Kerviel, convicted in 2010 of breach of trust, forging
documents and computer hacking in relation to a 4.9 billion-euro
trading loss at  Societe Generale , told the Paris court last week
he’d heard of the conspiracy from a person who, he said, refused
to testify in public. He’s appealing his conviction and sentence
of three years in jail and repayment of the bank’s loss in full.  Unwinding Positions  Over 20 hours of hearings last week, when the court
reviewed Kerviel’s career at the bank, he posited that the bank
saw the opportunity in 2007 to use unwinding his positions in
January 2008 to minimize the threat of the collapsing subprime
market.  Daniel Bouton , Societe Generale’s then-chief executive
officer and chairman, delayed announcing a 2.05 billion-euro
subprime write down for three days after learning of Kerviel’s
unauthorized trades.  Filippini and Societe Generale’s lawyers questioned the
logic of the theory about the bank’s “machinations,” asking
Kerviel why, if the bank knew about his actions and wanted to
minimize the impact of its subprime losses through him, they
didn’t offset it with his 1.4 billion-euro profit for 2007.  “Why didn’t the bank take your 1.4 billion right away if
it knew?” Filippini asked. “It would have been so thrilled to
improve its record.”  Kerviel said he reported just 55 million euros in profit at
the end of 2007, because he felt that was a more reasonable
figure given the trading limits on his desk.  Filippini criticized a claim by Kerviel’s lawyers that
someone tampered with recordings of conversations made when
Kerviel was called into the bank regarding the unwinding of his
trades. She said Koubbi and his staff hadn’t listened to all 8
hours of the recordings “before pronouncing it tampered with.”  Witnesses, including Kerviel’s former superiors are
scheduled to begin testifying this week. Bouton, who left the
bank in 2009, will also testify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  