-- Kidney-Damage Drug Seen Attacking Spread of Superbacteria
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2012-06-10T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/kidney-damaging-drug-seen-attacking-spread-of-superbugs-health.html
Doctors spurned  colistin  for decades
because it damages kidneys. Now the drug is deemed “critically
important” and in demand worldwide to thwart the most obstinate
infections.  The 53-year-old medicine, also used as an additive in
chicken feed, is back in favor as resistance to antibiotics
escalates and doctors run out of weapons to fight conditions
ranging from urinary tract infections to pneumonia.  “Drugs that we previously discarded because their toxicity
was too high now don’t look so bad if the alternative is
death,” said Lindsay Grayson, editor-in-chief of the sixth
edition of the medical text  Kucer’s The Use of Antibiotics .  The generation of antibiotics that led to colistin’s early
demise is losing potency because of the global spread of
multidrug-resistant bacteria, often called superbugs. A growing
number of infections don’t respond to a class of last-resort
medicines called carbapenems and the  World Health Organization 
says there is a dearth of new treatments in development.  “If current trends continue unabated, the future is easy
to predict,” Margaret Chan, the WHO’s director-general,  told a
meeting  in Copenhagen in March. “This will be a post-antibiotic
era. In terms of new replacement antibiotics, the pipeline is
virtually dry.”  In the meantime, colistin is helping to fill the void for
the small but growing minority of patients whose infections
resist standard treatment. The drug will become one of the WHO’s
 critically important antimicrobials  for the first time when the
list is updated this year, said Peter Collignon, director of
infectious diseases and microbiology at Canberra hospital in
 Australia  and an adviser to the United Nations agency on
antibiotic resistance.  Doctors Calling  The antibiotic, first sold in 1959, is so old there is a
dearth of clinical data to help guide prescribing physicians.
Roger Nation and Jian Li, professors of pharmacology at
 Melbourne ’s  Monash University , are working to change that and
say colistin is safer than previously thought.  “We’re basically re-developing a 50-year-old antibiotic,”
said Nation, who together with Li, has written or contributed to
more than 60 papers on colistin and related medicines known as
polymyxins. “We get a lot of e-mails and phone calls from
physicians from around the world wanting advice on dosing their
patients.”  Growth Promoter  There’s no data available on global sales of polymyxin
drugs, which are mostly reserved for rare infections in people
and sometimes used in livestock production in countries such as
 Brazil  to fight infection and promote growth.  Cipla Ltd. (CIPLA) , the Mumbai drugmaker that’s become the world’s
largest supplier of AIDS medicines, began selling colistin under
the brand Xylistin in 2008, and sales doubled to 155 million
rupees ($2.8 million) in the year ended March 31, according to
data from the All India Organization of Chemists and Druggists.  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  of  New York , Mumbai-based  Glenmark
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (GNP) , Xellia Pharmaceuticals AS of Oslo and a
Brazilian unit of Tokyo-based  Meiji Holdings Co. (2269)  also make and
sell the medicine.  Most drugmakers abandoned antibiotic-discovery efforts
during the past decade, swayed by more lucrative treatments for
chronic conditions and tougher testing requirements, said Karen Bush, a microbiologist at  Indiana University  in Bloomington who
led teams that developed five bacteria-fighting drugs beginning
in the 1970s.  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , based in  London , has a compound in late-
stage patient studies for complicated urinary tract and intra-
abdominal infections, and  Basilea Pharmaceutica (BSLN)  AG of Basel,
 Switzerland  has  one in early-stage trials  that may fight some
bacteria that currently defeat antibiotics of last resort.  Flying Off Shelves  Bacteria evading penicillin-based carbapenems can lead to
difficult-to-treat conditions like pneumonia and bloodstream
infections, and have caused deadly outbreaks in dozens of
countries. In  India , a gene dubbed NDM-1 is behind the toughest
germs, often leaving colistin injection vials as the only cure.  “It’s no surprise that they may be flying off the shelves
in India because of their NDM multi-resistant” bacteria, said
Grayson, director of infectious diseases and microbiology at
Melbourne’s Austin Hospital.  Genes that confer resistance to carbapenem are carried on
mobile loops of DNA that can infiltrate dozens of bacterial
species, from intestine-dwelling E. coli, soil-borne Pseudomonas
aeruginosa, to the microbial culprits of cholera and typhoid.  In the U.S., a pneumonia-causing variant of the bowel-
dwelling microbe Klebsiella pneumoniae, dubbed KPC, has been
reported in 37 states, and associated with mortality rates as
high as 40 percent. The germ can be carried in people as part of
their normal intestinal flora without causing disease,
potentially spreading to others via unclean hands.  ‘Silent Dissemination’  There is a “silent dissemination” of KPC, especially in
residents of long-term care facilities, said Robert Bonomo, a
professor of medicine and pharmacology at Case Western
University in  Cleveland . “As a result, there is a major
increase in the use of colistin.”  Discovered in the 1940s, colistin fell out of favor with
doctors after about 15 years of use amid concerns about kidney
damage when alternatives became widely available.  Nation and Li of  Monash University  began studying colistin
13 years ago, when they noted increased interest in the
injectable medicine as a treatment for infections in  cystic
fibrosis  patients. Their research has helped characterize its
action and formulate suggestions on dosage regimens.  No Choice  Reversible deterioration in  kidney function  occurs in about
30 percent to 50 percent of patients taking the medication,
Nation said, citing 2009 and 2011 studies from the U.S. and
 South Korea .  “There are some physicians who probably wouldn’t touch the
polymyxins with a barge pole because they’re concerned about
potential toxicity,” he said. “The important thing is that the
kidney impairment is usually relatively mild and almost always
reversible, and that colistin has the potential to cure an
otherwise fatal infection.”  When carbapenems don’t work, doctors typically turn to a
polymyxin such as colistin, or to Tygacil, a newer antibiotic
made by New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  Tygacil, however, isn’t
recommended for use in children or for fighting bloodstream
infections, and carries an increased risk of death.  Colistin’s growing popularity has a downside: resistance is
now emerging, spurred by increased use of the drug in humans as
well as farm animals. Use of antibiotics in food animals spurs
development of drug-resistant E. coli that can be transferred to
people via contaminated food or water, according to Collignon.  “In a few years, bacteria will be resistant to colistin as
well and that will be the worst,” said Abdul Ghafur, an
infectious diseases doctor in the Chennai, south India’s biggest
city. “Common infections could kill people, and we’ll have
nothing to treat them with.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  