-- Obama to Emphasize Rural America in Interviews, Report Tomorrow
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-06-10T21:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/obama-to-emphasize-rural-america-in-interviews-report-tomorrow.html
President  Barack Obama  will conduct
interviews with eight local television stations -- in mostly
Republican-friendly parts of swing states -- to promote his
Democratic administration’s efforts for rural communities.  Obama, who is seeking re-election in November, also will
announce an additional investment of about $2 billion through
2016 for rural businesses, according to a White House official
familiar with the plans, who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  A joint report about rural America will be released
tomorrow by the Council of Economic Advisers, the White House
Rural Council and the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  The television markets for the interviews are in
Republican-leaning parts of presidential election swing states -
- Green Bay, Wisconsin; Roanoke,  Virginia ; Jacksonville,
Florida; Sioux City, Iowa; Colorado Springs, Colorado; and Reno,
Nevada -- as well as Fresno in solidly Democratic California,
and Greenville in solidly Republican  South Carolina .  Tomorrow’s events follow a week of political setbacks for
Obama. The president drew criticism on June 8 from Mitt Romney,
the presumptive Republican nominee, that he is out of touch with
the economic concerns of average Americans after saying the
private sector is “doing fine.” Obama later clarified his
remarks to say that it is “absolutely clear that the economy is
not doing fine.”  Obama also is feeling a drag from a June 1 report showing
the U.S. unemployment rate increased in May, and the failure of
Democrats and unions in a June 5 recall vote against Republican
Governor Scott Walker in  Wisconsin , a state Obama’s campaign is
counting on in the November election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  