-- Hodgson’s Late Start Leaves Little Time to Dwell on Past Failure
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-10T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/hodgson-s-late-start-leaves-little-time-to-dwell-on-past-failure.html
For new England soccer coach  Roy Hodgson , the team’s unsuccessful past is less important than the
possibility of winning its first major trophy since the 1966
 World Cup .  Hodgson, who took over at the start of last month, will
oversee England’s first match in this year’s European
Championship today against two-time winner  France .  The 64-year-old is trying to end supporters’ frustrations
with U.K. public expectations at their lowest since captain
Bobby Moore lifted the World Cup in London 45 years ago. England
was knocked out of the 2010 World Cup by  Germany  in the second
round, and failed to make the last European Championship. In the
2006 World Cup, England lost a penalty shoot out to  Portugal  in
the quarterfinals.  Hodgson told reporters on the eve of the Group D match that
he’s not wasting the little time given him to prepare a team for
the 16-team tournament by dwelling on previous failures.  “Whatever’s happened to you in the past, whether it’s good
or bad, it’s gone,” Hodgson, who was hired May 1 from Premier
League team West Bromwich Albion, told reporters yesterday at
the Donbass Arena in Donetsk, Ukraine. “We’ve got to get our
minds fixed on the future. We’ve got to make certain that if
we’re successful we don’t let that go to our heads and that if
we’re unsuccessful that we don’t start digging graves for
ourselves.”  England starts the tournament in Ukraine and  Poland  with
problems set in motion with the sudden resignation of coach
Fabio Capello in February. The Italian quit following a
disagreement with the Football Association’s decision to strip
the captain’s role from  John Terry  because the defender is
accused of racially abusing the brother of former England
captain Rio Ferdinand.  Squad Decisions  Hodgson kept Terry in the squad, and didn’t add Ferdinand,
whose played more than 80 times for his country, even after
injuries to several defenders left him short.  The coach will have to prepare to play the first two games
without suspended main striker  Wayne Rooney  and has suffered a
spate of injury withdrawals including experienced midfielders
 Frank Lampard  and Gareth Barry.  France manager  Laurent Blanc , who won world and European
titles for his country, says the F.A.’s delay naming Hodgson as
Capello’s successor hampers the new coach’s chances of making a
mark on his team.  Blanc’s View  “It’s difficult to put ideas across to your players - you
don’t have a lot of time to work with them, and he’s had far
less than me,” said Blanc, appointed to lead Les Blues
following a poor World Cup in  South Africa  two years ago.  The team failed to make it out of the group stages, and
will be remembered for a player mutiny that involved the squad
sitting in a bus and refusing to train.  France has recovered. Blanc cut some veterans and replaced
them with younger players including 24-year-old Real Madrid
striker Karim Benzema and Rennes’ 21-year-old midfielder Yann
M’Villa. The team is unbeaten in 21 matches and is the favorite
to win the group, which also includes Sweden and Ukraine. Blanc
said he doesn’t think his team can rival champion Spain and
record three-time winner Germany.  “The French team don’t have the same ambitions as Spain or
Germany at the start of these European Championships,” Blanc
said. “France, in terms of their results over the last few
years, have not allowed us to retain our place in European or
world football.”  For survivors of England’s past failures, the championships
may be the last chance to save their international careers and
have a shot at making the squad for the 2014 World Cup in
 Brazil .  “I may have some decisions to make,” Hodgson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Donbass Arena in Ukraine via the  London 
newsroom on   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  