-- Moet & Chandon Champagne Is Poured on the Rocks
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-06-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/moet-chandon-champagne-is-poured-on-the-rocks.html
When Benoit Gouez, Chef de Cave of
 Moet & Chandon , told me he was making a Champagne intended to be
drunk over ice, all I could do was to picture some mustachioed,
veteran cellar master at Moet looking like French actor Philippe
Noiret and screaming, “Mon Dieu! Mais non! Jamais!”  Gouez laughed over that image during an all-Champagne lunch
at The NoMad in  New York  where he described his seemingly wholly
unorthodox way to drink a wine traditionally associated with
celebrations, tuxedos, and fluted glassware.  “Champagne, like everything else, must evolve. In St.
Tropez the summer people drink Champagne ‘a piscine,’ around the
swimming pool, with ice. So we’ve made a Champagne called  Ice
Imperial  with more body and a little sweeter, so it won’t be so
easily diluted by ice.”  As chief winemaker since 2005, Gouez, 42, has the vitality
and relative freedom to re-direct the great Champagne house that
dates back to 1743. Now part of luxury giant  Moet-Hennessey-
Louis Vuitton (MC) , its holdings sprawl over more than 1,000 hectares
(2,500 acres), capable of producing 26 million bottles annually.  If there’s been one problem for Moet, it has been one of
prestige compared with other Champagnes, including those it
owns, like Ruinart Pere et Fils, Mercier and  Dom Perignon .  Reduced Sugar  “For a century now Moet’s White Star label has been our
flagship label in the U.S.,” he said, “and it used to be much
sweeter. Today we are discontinuing White Star, replaced by our
well-established  Imperial label  (dating back to 1869), which is
lighter and has more finesse. We have reduced the dosage (a
sugar syrup added to Champagne to induce a second fermentation)
to nine grams per liter to make it drier, but we’re not making
it ‘pas dosage’ (no dosage) just to be trendy.”  Gouez acknowledges that many of the Champagne houses have
been making drier and drier styles at higher and higher prices,
calling them “prestige cuvees.”  In one sense, this marketing concept goes against the long-
cherished idea that an individual house forges a consistent
style and flavor that its customer have come to expect.  Moet, for instance, is always a blend of pinot noir,
chardonnay, and pinot meunier, while other houses may use only
chardonnay. “My vision,” said Gouez, “is that if you’re
looking for that consistency of flavor, drink the non-vintage;
if you are excited by distinctions made possible by the quality
of a single year, then drink a vintage Champagne.”  Icy Urchins  His point was well-taken over our meal. By presenting an
array of Moet Champagnes with various dishes, Gouez showed how
different styles offer different tastes, some richer, some
older, some fruitier.  We began with an icy platter of seafood, diced hamachi, sea
urchins, and scallops. Our bracing appetite starter was Moet’s
Brut Imperial, which is spring-like in its balance of fruitiness
and green flavors.  A chiffonade salad of snow peas with pancetta, pecorino and
mint was paired with a deeply-colored Brut Rose, made with up to
50 percent pinot noir, whose lush body and pleasing acid married
well with the salty edge of the ham and sharpness of the cheese.  Next we sampled a Grand Vintage 2002, Moet’s current
vintage release, which has a low dosage of five grams and a
fine, strong bouquet and fullness on the palate that went
splendidly with fresh tagliatelle pasta with mild King crab,
tangy Meyer lemon, and a crunch of black pepper.  The main course was roasted lobster with thin, hot potato
chips, spring vegetables and a classic sprinkling of tarragon.
For this Gouez popped the cork on a Grand Vintage 1992.  Superb Vintage  With 51 percent chardonnay, 26 percent pinot noir, 23
percent pinot meunier, and 5.5 percent dosage, it was absolutely
superb and as fresh as any of the bottles I sampled that
afternoon.  It was creamy and while it had what connoisseurs like to
call the patina of age, it showed none of the oxidation that so
many British aficionados favor.  “We do everything possible to reduce oxidation in our
wines,” said Gouez, which is why this 20-year-old bubbly had
such remarkable vibrancy, a perfect foil for the richness of the
lobster.  I noted that the examples we tasted had very tiny bubbles
and slight effervescence. That can sometimes happen when
Champagne is served too warm, but these wines were impeccably
chilled.  Mature Grapes  “We do everything possible to reduce oxidation,” said
Gouez. He also noted that  climate change  since 1988 has
increased the sugars in the grapes. “In the Champagne region
this is a boon because we’ve always had an issue as to when to
harvest grapes that are mature enough.”  By the same token, too much sugar can change the profile
and taste of Champagne, whose traditions are among the strongest
and most enduring in  France .  Then again, if things get too warm out there by the pool,
you can now pour your Moet on the rocks and still be tres chic.  (John Mariani writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on  art  and a Jim
Pressley  book  review.  To contact the writer of this column:
 John Mariani  at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 