-- Oil Gains Most in Five Months on Spain Bailout, China
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-06-11T12:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/oil-gains-most-in-five-months-on-spain-bailout-china.html
Oil rose the most in more than five
months in  New York  on speculation fuel demand will increase
after Spain requested a European bailout to shore up its banks
and China’s imports of crude climbed to a record.  Futures pared gains after advancing as much as 3 percent,
the most since Jan. 3. Spain will seek 100 billion euros ($126
billion) from euro-area nations, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told reporters in  Madrid  during the weekend. China, the
world’s second-biggest crude consumer, increased imports of the
commodity in May as costs fell, according to customs data. OPEC
may maintain output quotas to keep prices at current levels when
the group meets this week, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Price risks are “shifting more to the upside,”  Jeffrey Currie , head of commodities research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in New York, said today in a report. “As policy makers continue
to address the European debt issue and the economic data
stabilizes, markets will move substantially higher.”  Crude for July delivery increased as much as $2.54 to
$86.64 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $84.92 at 12:33 p.m. London time. The
contract rose 1.1 percent last week to $84.10, the first weekly
gain in six. Prices have fallen 14 percent this year.  Brent for July settlement climbed 76 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to $100.23 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas
Intermediate was at $15.32 a barrel, little changed from June 8.  China Imports  “It’s a bit of a relief rally” on Spain’s request for
bailout funds, Ole Hansen, senior manager of trading advisory at
Saxo Bank A/S, said by phone from Copenhagen.  Oil in New York rebounded as a technical indicator showed
the longest oversold stretch on record, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. On the daily chart, the 14-day relative
strength index was below 30 every day for the past four weeks.
Investors typically buy contracts when the reading is below that
level. The RSI was at 28.4 today.  China  imported a net 25.3 million metric tons of crude in
May, or 5.98 million barrels a day, up 10 percent from April,
the customs data showed yesterday. The previous record was 5.87
million barrels a day in February. Purchases cost an average of
$120 a barrel, versus about $123 in April, the data showed.  “It seems China trade is getting healthy again,” said
 Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund manager at Astmax Co. Ltd. in
 Tokyo . “That’s pushing up oil and commodity prices.”  The nation’s sales of passenger cars rose 23 percent to
1.28 million units last month, the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said June 9. That beat the 1.2 million
average of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Positive Impact’  Spain ’s rescue request followed weeks of concern that bad
loans at its banks might overwhelm public finances. Brent oil, a
benchmark price for more than half the world’s crude, has fallen
20 percent since its highest close this year on March 1, amid
speculation Europe’s debt crisis will derail the economic
recovery and curb fuel demand.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
supplies about 40 percent of the world’s crude, will keep its
official daily production ceiling at 30 million barrels a day
when it meets June 14 in Vienna, according to all 20 traders and
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That contrasts with the cuts
agreed on at every meeting in the past 10 years that coincided
with a price drop of more than 10 percent in the preceding three
months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Iran, Venezuela  There is a “tremendous” surplus in the oil market, Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi, Iraq’s oil minister, said in Vienna today.
Crude prices from $100 to $120 a barrel are reasonable, he said.  Iran  and  Venezuela  have criticized fellow OPEC members for
producing more than the existing quota. OPEC pumped 31.85
million barrels a day in April, 1.85 million more than the limit
agreed to at the last meeting in December and 950,000 more than
what will be needed in the third quarter, according to the
 International Energy Agency .  Venezuela is concerned about members’ non-compliance with
the ceiling and will address the issue during the meeting,
President  Hugo Chavez  told reporters on June 9. Venezuela
believes that $100 a barrel is a “fair price,” he said.  “We’re at levels that OPEC wants to support, and investors
will probably also support prices around here,” said Jeremy Friesen, a commodity strategist at Societe Generale SA in Hong
Kong. “We’d see some bargain hunters if we saw a significant
selloff.”  Bullish Bets  “It isn’t right” that  Saudi Arabia , Kuwait and the  United
Arab Emirates  are seeking to replace Iranian crude on global
markets, Iran’s governor to OPEC, Mohammad Ali Khatibi, said,
according to Press TV yesterday. Iran is under a series of
international financial and trade sanctions aimed at curbing its
nuclear program and a European Union embargo on Iranian  crude
oil  is set to come into force on July 1.  Diplomats from China,  France , Germany,  Russia , the U.K. and
the U.S. are due to meet their Iranian counterparts in Moscow on
June 18 to June 19 to discuss the atomic program. The U.S. and
European Union say the work is a cover for nuclear-weapons
development, while Iran says it’s for peaceful purposes. It will
be the third round of talks in three months.  Hedge funds  and other money managers cut bullish bets on
 Brent crude  to the lowest level in more than six months in the
week ended June 5, according to  data from ICE Futures Europe .  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 57,751 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That’s the least since Nov. 22, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Money managers reduced bullish oil wagers for a fifth week
in the period ended June 5, according to the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on
June 8. Net-long positions, or wagers prices will rise, fell by
3,535, or 2.6 percent, to 133,049 futures and options combined,
according to the CFTC data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net 
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  