-- Hollande May Need Anti-Capitalist Support to Win Parliament
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   C a r o l   M a t l a c k
-- 2012-06-10T15:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/hollande-may-need-anti-capitalist-support-to-win-parliament-1-.html
Francois Hollande , who was elected
president of France last month, may have to rely on the anti-
capitalist fringe in parliament after legislative elections that
start today.  The two-round vote that ends June 17 will probably give
Hollande’s  Socialist Party  the largest number of seats in
parliament, though it may need the support of communist-backed
parties to have an effective majority. As of 5 p.m. Paris time,
the  Interior Ministry  reported on its website, voter turnout was
at 48.3 percent, compared with 49.3 percent during the first
round of parliamentary elections in 2007.  “Even if the Socialists do win a majority, it could be
with such a tight margin that Hollande won’t be able to rule
without allies,” said Adelaide Zulfikarpasic, head of the
opinion department at Paris-based pollster LH2. “The question
then becomes what conditions the far left imposes as a price.”  Without a majority in parliament, a French president is
reduced to a figurehead in domestic policy, retaining only some
room for maneuver on foreign and military policy. President
 Jacques Chirac  couldn’t prevent a Socialist-led parliament from
cutting the French work week to 35 hours in 2000. President
 Francois Mitterrand  was powerless to stop a conservative
government in the early 1990s from selling companies he’d
nationalized the previous decade.  Radical Party  Along with allies from the Radical Party and the
ecologists, a Socialist Party bloc may control between 271 and
334 seats, according to three polls this month from Ifop, TNS-
Sofres and OpinionWay. A total of 289 are needed for a majority
in the 577-member National Assembly.  If none of the candidates, who run in electoral districts,
wins 50 percent in the first round, all of them receiving at
least 12.5 percent makes it to the decisive round a week later.  Hollande was sworn in May 15. Parliament has been out of
session since March 7 because of the presidential campaign. The
Socialists and their allies already control the upper Senate,
which isn’t up for re-election. The parties of Mitterrand,
Chirac and Nicolas Sarkozy all won the parliamentary vote that
followed their presidential election.  “I ask the French to elect a majority for change,”
Hollande said in a May 29 interview on  France  2 television,
playing off his winning presidential campaign slogan. “If the
French chose me, I think they also intend to give me a large,
solid and coherent majority” in parliament, he said.  Record Low  Investors are giving Hollande the benefit of the doubt,
sending French borrowing costs to an all-time low since he
defeated Sarkozy on May 6. The yield on France’s benchmark 10-
year bond slid to a record 2.07 percent on June 1. The
government took advantage of the decline by selling 7.84 billion
euros ($9.81 billion) in debt on June 7, including 50-year bonds
for the first time since 2010.  Sarkozy’s Union for a Popular Majority, which has
controlled parliament the past five years, would win between
between 220 and 274 seats, not enough for a majority, the polls
showed. Marine Le Pen’s National Front may capture as many as
five seats.  If the Socialist bloc isn’t comfortably over 289,
Hollande’s party would need to cut a deal with the communist-
backed Left Front, credited with 13 to 24 seats in the three
polls.  Talks between the Left Front and the Socialists to present
common candidates in the legislative elections failed last
month, with Left Front leader Jean-Luc Melenchon and Socialist
Party chief  Martine Aubry  blaming the other for the breakdown.  Conditional Support  Melenchon met Hollande June 5 and offered conditional
support. “We will criticize and play our role in parliament,”
Melenchon said. “But we are not political adversaries. It won’t
be us to bring down a leftist government.”  Melenchon and Hollande have clashed over euro policy. When
Alexis Tsipras, leader of  Greece ’s anti-bailout Syriza party,
visited Paris May 21, Melenchon hosted him at a press conference
and a rally, and derided Hollande as the “candidate of
austerity.” No Socialists met Tsipras, and Hollande has said
Greece must abide by its rescue deals, even if he has also
spoken about the need for growth measures.  “Although outside of the government, Melenchon’s party and
the Communists would still have an influence over the
implementation of future policy through their vote in
parliament,” said  Dominique Barbet , senior economist at  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  in Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net 
Carol Matlack in Paris at 
 cmatlack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  