-- Hong Kong Protesters Demand Probe Into Chinese Dissident’s Death
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-06-10T12:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/hong-kong-protesters-demand-probe-into-chinese-dissident-s-death.html
Thousands of people rallied in  Hong
Kong  today, demanding Chinese authorities investigate the death
of blind Chinese dissident Li Wangyang.  Protesters, many dressed in black or holding white flowers
and Li’s portraits, called for China’s government to re-assess
the 1989 pro-democracy movement. The rally marched to the
Chinese government’s liaison office, where there were scuffles
with the police, television footage from i-Cable showed.  The march follows Hong Kong’s candlelight vigil on June 4
to mark the anniversary of the government crackdown on the 1989
pro-democracy movement in  Tiananmen Square . Li was a labor
rights activist who advocated independent unions in China.  About 25,000 attended today’s rally,  Radio Television Hong
Kong  said in a report on its website, citing the organizers. The
police estimated there were 3,600 protesters at the start on
Chater Road, and 5,400 at the rally’s peak, according to Dominic
Lam, a spokesman for the force.  Lee Cheuk-yan, chairman of the Alliance in Support of
Patriotic Democratic Movements in  China , an organizer of today’s
rally, didn’t immediately return calls to his phone.  Prison Sentence  Li was initially sentenced to 11 years in prison for his
participation in the 1989 pro-democracy movement, according to
 information  posted on the website of Human Rights in China.  He lost his sight and hearing, and had trouble walking
after being tortured in prison for refusal to admit guilt, the
site said. He was sentenced to another 10 years in prison for
“inciting subversion of state power” in 2001 for staging a
hunger strike to protest his treatment in the prison, it added.  Released in May 2011, he was found dead in a hospital room
in Shaoyang in the Chinese province of Hunan on June 6, hanging
by a window with his feet still standing on the ground, the
statement from Human Rights in China said, citing his brother-
in-law Zhao Baozhu. His relatives have questioned the
authorities’ description of the death as suicide.  The body of Li, 62, was cremated yesterday, Hong Kong’s
English-language newspaper  South China Morning Post  reported
today.  Protesters today chanted slogans calling Chinese
authorities “a butcher government”. They also held banners
demanding the government give people the right to vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  