-- First Pacquiao Loss in 7 Years Enrages Fans; Rematch Agreed
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-06-11T04:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/pacquiao-loses-split-decision-to-unbeaten-bradley-in-wbo-bout.html
Manny Pacquiao lost his first bout
in seven years, a split decision to unbeaten Timothy Bradley
that enraged fans of the Philippine boxer, setting the stage for
a rematch in November.  “Pac-Man was cheated,” said Karen Selevares, using the
nickname of the fighter who’s become a national hero in the
Southeast Asian nation. “They’re probably setting up a
rematch,” said the 29-year-old housewife, who took her 6-year-
old son to a live screening of the fight two hours ahead of time
to get good seats.  Pacquiao was elected to Congress in May 2010 after winning
world championships in eight weight classes. The crowd at the
MGM Grand in  Las Vegas  jeered as Bradley, 28, was declared the
winner on the night of June 9. The American boxer was ahead 115-
113 on two judges’ scorecards, while Pacquiao won 115-113 on the
third.  “I respect the decision but I believe 100 percent I won
the fight,” Pacquiao told reporters after the bout.  Bob Arum, promoter of both fighters, said the two judges
who scored in Bradley’s favor should have their eyes examined.
Oscar De La Hoya, who lost to Pacquiao (54-4-3, 38 knockouts) in
December 2008, wrote on Twitter that Bradley shouldn’t have
accepted the victory. Pacquiao landed 253 punches to Bradley’s
159, and out-slugged Bradley 190-108 on power punches, according
to  CompuBox , a computerized punch scoring system.  November Rematch  “I cannot believe what I just saw,” singer  Justin Timberlake  wrote on Twitter. “Please tell me they read the
decision wrong.”  Pacquiao said he wants a rematch and one is being scheduled
in November.  “I thought I won the fight,” said Bradley, who is 29-0
with 11 knockouts. “I didn’t think he was as good as everyone
says. I didn’t feel his power.”  Pacquiao, 33, is a high school dropout who brought his
family out of poverty through boxing. In the 1990s, he fought
for purses as small as 150 pesos ($3.50) -- then about the cost
of a T-shirt in the  Philippines . Today he’s the richest
Philippine congressman, surpassing  Imelda Marcos , with a net
worth inflated by TV appearances and endorsing products with the
Nike, Hennessy Cognac and HP brands.  “I did my best,” Pacquiao said. “I guess my best wasn’t
good enough.”  Presidential Support  Filipinos support for their champion remains strong as ever,
Abigail Valte, a presidential spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “During your next fights, and during the challenges
that will undoubtedly come your way in the future, you can
certainly count on us to stand by you,” Valte said.  “He is no longer Pacquiao, the unstoppable,” said  Ramon Casiple ,  executive director  at the Institute for Political and
Electoral Reform in  Manila . His viability as politician and a
product endorser will depend on whether he beats Bradley on the
rematch, he said.  “I heard boos at the end of the night which is OK,”
Bradley said. “We need to definitely do this again in November
and let’s make it more decisive for everybody.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  