-- Peru Finds Helicopter Crash Site in Andes; 14 Presumed Dead
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-06-10T07:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/peru-finds-helicopter-crash-site-in-andes-14-presumed-dead.html
Peruvian police found debris from a
helicopter that went missing in the Andes and all 14 on board
are presumed dead, according to a South Korean company that
employed four of the passengers.  The crash site was located yesterday at 9:30 a.m. local
time on Mount Mamarosa, near the Peruvian city of Cuzco,  Samsung
C&T Corp. (000830)  said today in an e-mailed statement. Peruvian police
notified the South Korean embassy that all passengers, including
one Dutch and three South Korean Samsung C&T employees, are
believed to have died, it said.  South Korean diplomats are on their way to the site to
confirm the deaths, Foreign Ministry official Hwang In Seong
said today in  Seoul .  The pilot and a crewmember, both Peruvians, were taking 12
foreigners, including eight Koreans, to survey three proposed
sites for a hydropower plant near the Inambari river, Hwang said.
The craft went missing on June 6 as it crossed the Andes to
return to Cuzco, he said.  The other South Korean passengers included two who work for
 Korea Engineering Consultants Corp. (023350) , two from Seoyeong
Engineering Co. and one with Korea Water Resources Corp., Cho
Keun Ho, a Samsung C&T spokesman, said on June 8. Three
employees from Samsung C&T’s local partner were also aboard, Cho
said. There were Austrians on the craft as well, General Hector
Dulanto of the Peruvian police told state television channel TV
Peru on June 7.  ‘Shock and Regret’  Samsung C&T’s Vice Chairman Jung Yeon Joo, who left Seoul
today for Peru, expressed “shock and regret for the loss of the
company’s employees who were working hard to tap into new
markets abroad,” according to the company’s statement. Kim Wan
Kyu, vice-president of the state-run Korea Water Resources Corp.
led an emergency response team to  Peru  on June 8, according to a
statement posted on Korea Water’s website that day.  The helicopter belonged to Helicopteros del Cusco SA, which
flies tourists to the Inca citadel of  Machu Picchu  and
transports personnel and cargo for the mining and oil and gas
industry, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
} at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  