-- Rate-Cut Powder Seen Kept Dry Before Greek Vote: Southeast Asia
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-06-11T04:28:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/rate-cut-powder-seen-kept-dry-before-greek-vote-southeast-asia.html
Central banks in  Southeast Asia ’s
two largest economies meet to set  interest rates  this week, with
officials forecast to hold off on stimulus days before a Greek
election at risk of triggering a deeper European turmoil.  Indonesia and  Thailand , along with the Philippines, the
region’s No. 5 economy, will keep interest rates unchanged,
according to surveys of economists by Bloomberg News.  Bank
Indonesia  meets tomorrow, the Bank of Thailand June 13 and
Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas the day after.  Policy makers across the globe are confronting the dangers
posed by Europe and slowing growth, with  China , Brazil and
Australia opting for rate cuts the past two weeks. Many Asian
nations are better prepared now than when the credit crunch hit
in 2008, according to HSBC Holdings Plc and Moody’s Analytics,
giving scope to hold rate-cut fire for now.  “Even though there is a temptation to cut rates now, doing
so too aggressively could mean that monetary policy is too
loose” at a time when inflation pressures remain, said  Frederic Neumann , Hong Kong-based co-head of Asian economics at HSBC and
a former consultant to the  World Bank . “It would be more
advisable to spur fiscal policy.”  President  Benigno Aquino  is taking that approach in the
 Philippines , increasing state spending to a record this year.
Last week, the government started the bidding process for a 60
billion-peso ($1.4 billion)  Manila rail  extension project and
won pledges for more than $500 million of investment projects
from Glencore International Plc and Gazasia Ltd.  Malaysia Spending  Malaysia, which kept its  benchmark  unchanged last month and
next meets to set rates July 5, has also turned to fiscal
stimulus and spurring investment to support growth.  Prime Minister Najib Razak, who unveiled a record 232.8
billion ringgit ($73 billion) budget in October, has raised
civil servant salaries and pensions, waived school fees and
boosted handouts for the poor. In May, he announced private
investment plans worth a total 20.5 billion ringgit.  Malaysia’s  industrial production  growth quickened in April,
with output at factories, utilities and mines rising 3.2 percent
from a year earlier, after climbing a revised 1.5 percent in
March, the statistics department said today. That compares with
the median estimate for a 2 percent increase in a Bloomberg News
survey of 16 economists.  While  Asia  is in a better shape to withstand an export
slump compared with 2008 as countries become less reliant on
European and U.S. demand, a global slowdown will still hurt the
region, according to HSBC’s Neumann.  ’Less Exposed’  “As far as trade is concerned, Asia appears a little less
exposed than in 2008,” Neumann said in a note last week. Still,
“the sensitivity of local growth to swings in credit appetite
has increased in the intervening years. Crucially, Asia’s policy
response to another global slump may be less forthright than
before.”  Asian manufacturers would be exposed to a Greek exit from
the  euro zone  via weaker export demand and reduced trade
financing, Moody’s Analytics said last week. The severity of the
downturn may not be as severe as the 2008-09 global recession as
regional companies and policy makers are “better positioned
heading into any new crisis,” economists  Fred Gibson  and Glenn Levine said in a June 6 note.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of regional shares has fallen
more than 16 percent in the past year as the escalating European
crisis spurred outflows from  emerging markets . Greece will hold
elections on June 17 after an inconclusive earlier vote, and the
results could hand power to parties that oppose the terms of the
nation’s rescue package, precipitating its exit from the 17-
nation euro area.  Steepest Slowdown  The risks have driven policy makers to act to shore up a
global economy that is suffering its steepest slowdown since the
recession ended in 2009. China cut interest rates last week for
the first time since 2008 to counter what Premier  Wen Jiabao  has
called increasing downward economic pressure.  Vietnam  has cut
interest rates four times this year as growth slowed to 4
percent in the first quarter, the smallest gain since 2009.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  left the door
open at a June 6 press conference to a rate cut, while
highlighting the limitations of the ECB’s tools in countering
the region’s financial turmoil. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  told a Congressional committee last week that
policy makers will discuss later this month whether to do more
to spur growth, though he said the steps they could take may
have “diminishing returns.”  Showing Resilience  Southeast Asian economies have shown resilience as domestic
demand helped counter faltering exports.  Indonesia , Southeast
Asia’s largest economy, expanded more than 6 percent for a sixth
straight quarter in the three months through March. Thailand’s
economy unexpectedly expanded last quarter, while Philippine
growth was the fastest since 2010.  Indonesia will hold interest rates at 5.75 percent tomorrow,
according to all 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Inflation unexpectedly slowed for the first time in three months
in May, even as price risks persist with a declining currency.
The country took steps last month to reduce excess funds in the
economy while extending a pause in rate cuts to contain price
risks, saying it would raise the rates on central bank bills and
term deposits.  Thailand will keep its key rate at 3 percent for a third
straight meeting on June 13, all 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predict. The Philippines will maintain the benchmark
rate at 4 percent for a second meeting a day later, according to
10 of 11 economists in a separate survey, with one forecasting a
quarter-point cut.  “Managing inflation remains our primary mandate and so we
will consider the balance of these factors and determine if
there is a need to make adjustments to policy,” Bangko Sentral
Governor Amando Tetangco said in a mobile-phone text message on
June 8. The central bank will consider global developments and
“the domestic growth trajectory if there are inflation
pressures that we need to be wary about,” he said.  In South Asia,  Sri Lanka  will keep the repurchase rate
steady at 7.75 percent for a second month on June 13, according
to six of eight economists. One predicts an increase and the
other expects a cut. The island’s central bank increased
borrowing costs in February and April to curb rising prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  