-- Marking Your Calendar for the Campaign Stretch
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-06-10T15:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/some-known-knowns-of-presidential-campaign-s-last-stretch.html
This year’s U.S. presidential race
is considered a tossup by both sides, and unforeseen events
could prove determinative: contagion from the European economic
crisis, war or terrorism.  The largest imponderable is the economy. With a Republican-
controlled  House of Representatives  that isn’t eager to help a
Democratic president in an election year, even a mild stimulus
is a non-starter. Any small impetus provided by Chairman  Ben Bernanke ’s  Federal Reserve  is beyond the control of politicians.  There are some foreseeable milestones, however, that will
also help shape the outcome of the Nov. 6 presidential election.
These include:  June 28: Give or take a few days, this is when the Supreme
Court hands down its decision on President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law. More than a few Republicans see this as a win-
win situation. If the measure is retained, the Republican base
will be energized for the general election; if it isn’t, Obama’s
signature first-term achievement will be undercut.  If the law is upheld, the campaign will stress the law’s
unpopular positions and the need to “vote in November to change
that,” says  Ed Gillespie , a senior adviser to the likely
Republican presidential nominee,  Mitt Romney .  Wasted Years  “If it goes out the window, people will feel like we’ve
wasted two years we didn’t have to waste when the president
should have been more focused on  job creation  and the economy,”
Gillespie says.  Obama strategists are less upbeat and more nuanced. If the
law is upheld, they plan to stress its popular elements, a
challenge they’ve failed to meet for the past two years. If it’s
overturned, there will be a temptation to attack both the
court’s decision as driven by ideology and to put Romney on the
spot as to what he would do.  “There are grounds, polling shows, to take on the
decision; people think this is an exceptionally political
court,” says Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster. “And there
will be a downside for Romney. It begs the question of what he
would do next. He really doesn’t have any answers.”  This month, the high court also is expected to rule on
 Arizona ’s anti-immigration law. The politics here may slightly
favor the Democrats: If the measure is upheld, the court’s
decision will energize Hispanic voters who are likely to vote
overwhelmingly for Obama.  Aug. 27-30: The  Republican National Convention  will help
set the tone for the general election. Successful conventions,
such as 1988 for Republicans and 1992 for Democrats, launched
winning candidates. Conversely, messy conventions -- the
Democrats’ in 1980 or the Republicans’ in 1992 -- proved
impossible to overcome.  In Tampa this year, the Republicans will bash Obama as a
failed president who is in over his head. They’ll also try to
shed their image as a narrow club of rich guys by trotting out
struggling Americans with whom to empathize and by highlighting
more diversity than commonly seen at Republican gatherings.  On the last night, in his acceptance speech, the nominee
has two challenges. He needs to show he’s plausible, not scary;
that should be easy. The other is to offer a credible, hopefully
inspiring vision to the country; that’ll be hard.  “A presidential election campaign is a referendum on the
record of the sitting president,” Gillespie says. “But it’s
more than that.” An inspiring vision of any kind would be an
addition to Romney’s playbook.  Democratic Convention  Sept. 4-6: The Democrats are holding an abbreviated
convention in  Charlotte . Aside from funding concerns, there is
also the threat of rain on Sept. 6, when the president is
scheduled to give his acceptance speech at an outdoor stadium.
(It rained in  Charlotte  last year on Sept. 6).  The tenor of these three days is no secret. The first two
will feature Romney-bashing: his private-equity past, his
Massachusetts record, how he will return the U.S. to the George W. Bush days, etc...  “They’re going to remind people that our guys aren’t
loved,” says former Republican Congressman  Tom Davis . “There
will be some  Rick Santorum  and what Mitt Romney said in the
primary.”  Then the president, ideally under a clear sky, will try to
offer an economic vision that so far has eluded this campaign:
“There is need for more clarity on our side on the economic
message,” Garin says.  The Democrats are counting on Obama to change that on Sept.
6 by framing the race as a fight about the future. “This should
be his bridge to the 21st century,” says  Tad Devine , a top
Democratic strategist who ran  Al Gore ’s presidential quest in
2000. “The president needs to lay down a real marker of where
to take the country.”  Oct. 3: The first of four national debates is held. A
review of the 10 presidential cycles that featured debates
suggests these have minimal impact on the final outcome;
exceptions were the initial John F. Kennedy-Richard Nixon
debates in 1960 and  Ronald Reagan  in 1980.  Nevertheless, there will be lots of hype and this affords
each candidate a chance to hold his opponent accountable: Romney
will be able to call on Obama to explain the poor performance of
the economy over the previous four years; Obama can highlight
his opponent’s many policy reversals and support for some hard-
right positions.  Nov. 2: The  unemployment  data for October is released.
Voters’ sense of economic security will be well formed by the
eve of the election. Yet with dueling messages -- Obama claiming
the economy is improving and Romney saying it isn’t -- a highly
publicized jobs report four days before the election could be
psychologically important.  The focus will be on whether the trend is generally
positive, with unemployment moving down a little, or basically
negative, with joblessness increasing.  If the rate is in the neighborhood of the high sevens, or
below 8 percent, “people will start saying maybe things are
getting better,” Davis says. “If it’s going back up, it may be
over.” Last month, the jobless rate rose to 8.2 percent from
8.1 percent.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 