-- South Africa Pressed to Cut Rates as Rand Worries Gain
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-06-11T07:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/south-africa-pressed-to-cut-rates-as-rand-worries-gain.html
South Africa ’s economic recovery is
losing momentum as mining and manufacturing slumps, fueling
investor expectations of an interest rate cut that the central
bank has so far resisted.  Mining output contracted for a 10th month,  manufacturing 
nearly stalled in the three months through April and business
confidence slumped the most in four years, according to data
published on June 7. Investors have increased bets the central
bank will cut its  benchmark rate  from 5.5 percent, with yields
on the six-month forward-rate agreement dropping the most since
September in the past month.  Policy makers from  Brazil  to  China  to  Vietnam  are taking
steps to bolster the global economy as the debt crisis in  Europe 
worsens. South Africa’s central bank has so far rebuffed calls
to ease borrowing costs as a weaker currency keeps inflation
above the bank’s target.  Reserve Bank  Governor Gill Marcus said
on June 7 her mandate is to control inflation and monetary
policy is limited in what it can do.  The Reserve Bank will “face more pressure to do something
if growth continues to moderate,” Carmen Nel, an economist at
Rand Merchant Bank, a unit of  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , said in an
interview in  Cape Town  on June 8. “They would find it very
difficult to ignore.”  The chances of a rate cut before the end of the year are
rising. Yields on the forward-rate agreement due in December
dropped 33 basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, to 5.36
percent in the past month. As recently as March, the contracts
were indicating the bank would raise rates this year.  Business Confidence Slumps  South Africa has already cut its  economic growth  forecast
for this year to 2.7 percent, down from 3.1 percent in 2011. It
may have to do so again as a possible recession in Europe cuts
demand from a region that buys about a third of South African
manufactured goods.  Mining output fell 11 percent in April from a year ago,
while manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
expanded 0.4 percent in the three months through April, the
statistics office said last week. The RMB/BER  business
confidence index  dropped 11 points to 41 in the second quarter,
signaling a slowdown in economic activity, Rand Merchant Bank
said on June 7.  “ Consumer confidence  is likely to follow and that drives
spending,” Gina Schoeman, an economist at  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , said
in a telephone interview from Johannesburg. “As things get
worse, as people become less confident, you are going to see
retail sales lose momentum.”  Resisting Rate Cuts  Retail sales  contracted 1.2 percent in the first quarter
compared with the previous three months, the statistics agency
said on May 16.  Consumer spending  makes up about two-thirds of
demand in the economy.  The Reserve Bank, which has left its key policy rate
unchanged for a record 18 months, has so far resisted pressure
to ease monetary policy as  inflation  stays near the top of its 3
percent to 6 percent target range. The inflation rate, which
rose to 6.1 percent in May from 6 percent a month earlier, will
probably drop into the target band after the second quarter,
according to the central bank’s forecasts.  “ Monetary policy  will face a challenging period ahead, in
trying to deal with these risks to inflation against the
backdrop of a volatile and uncertain global environment and the
implications for the domestic economy,” Marcus said on June 7.  The rand has plunged 9.1 percent against the dollar in the
past three months as investors sold riskier, emerging-market
assets, adding to import costs and making the currency the
biggest threat to inflation, Marcus said. The rand gained 1
percent to 8.3069 per dollar as of 9:27 a.m. in Johannesburg
today.  “With inflation expected to return to the target range,
and  oil prices  decreasing, a slowdown in the demand side of the
economy would be supportive of an  interest rate  cut,” Thabi Leoka, the head of South African macroeconomic research at
Johannesburg-based Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in a note to
clients on June 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  