-- Spain’s Bailout Gives Rajoy Best Chance to Fix Banks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-06-11T15:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/spain-s-bailout-gives-rajoy-best-chance-to-fix-banks.html
Spain ’s request for as much as 100
billion euros ($125 billion) of European bailout funds may
provide the country with enough money to shore up its banking
system after three failed attempts in as many years.  “Now that they have this money, it will hopefully finally
be possible to recognize all the hidden losses and clean up the
system,”  Luis Garicano , a professor at the  London School  of
Economics, said in a phone interview.  The amount sought is about 2.7 times the funds deemed
necessary for Spanish banks by the  International Monetary Fund 
in a report released June 8 and five times the total requested
by the Bankia group, the country’s third-biggest lender, to
cleanse its balance sheet. Spain sought aid for its banks on
June 9, becoming the fourth euro member to seek a bailout since
the debt crisis began almost three years ago.  The rescue request followed weeks of escalating concern
that bad loans at Spain’s banks might overwhelm public finances.
The Spanish crisis, coinciding with the prospect of  Greece 
exiting the euro after elections on June 17, roiled financial
markets around the world, sending the euro to an almost two-year
low on June 1 and raising Spanish borrowing costs to near euro-
era records.  Rajoy Scrutiny  After markets rallied early in the day, Spanish bank shares
and the euro pared their gains and government bonds fell.  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) , Spain’s biggest bank, was up 1.9 percent at 4.30
p.m. in  Madrid , paring gains of as much as 9.7 percent, and
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, the number two lender, was
up 1.8 percent, compared with a peak increase of 10 percent.  Spain’s 10-year yield climbed 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, to 6.42 percent at 16.25 p.m. Madrid time.  Mariano Rajoy , who denied the need for a banking bailout as
recently as May 28, will be under scrutiny as his government
tries to complete the cleanup after past efforts fell short. The
funds to shore up banks don’t address the broader budget woes in
Spain, where the economy is contracting and the  unemployment
rate  is higher than 24 percent.  “We view this as a positive near-term development for
Spain, and in particular for its banks,” Andrew Benito, senior
European economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  London , said
in a note yesterday. “But it does not solve Spain’s overall
fiscal and macroeconomic challenges, which remain substantial.”  Conservative Approach  Spanish banks will probably face fresh provisioning rules
as the government mulls how to deploy the funds after receiving
information on the size of the capital shortfall from the IMF
and the independent audits it has commissioned, said Jaime Becerril and Axel Finsterbusch, analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “We expect the government will take advantage of having
the 100-billion-euro  credit line  to force a realistic cleanup of
the banks, being conservative to avoid a full country bailout,”
they wrote in a research note today, adding that weaker banks
would have to raise more capital.  Apart from Santander and  BBVA (BBVA) , and perhaps Banco Sabadell
SA, almost all Spanish lenders may be short of capital, said
Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura International in London.  Santander and BBVA have been tarred by the nation’s banking
distress even though they generate most of their revenue outside
the country. Santander  declined  34 percent in Madrid trading in
the 12 months through yesterday, while BBVA fell 30 percent.
They may benefit from the bailout if it cuts their funding costs
and leads investors to recognize their strengths, said Quinn.  “From the perspective of the Spanish banks, the funds are
sufficient to draw a line under the capital debate,” said
Goldman Sachs analysts Jernej Omahen, Pawel Dziedzic and Luca de
Angelis in a research note today.  ‘Wonderful Opportunity’  Europe  will lend the money to Spain’s bank-rescue fund,
which will channel it to the banks based on the findings of
reports by the independent auditors, which are scheduled to
complete a stress test of lenders by June 21, Economy Minister
Luis de Guindos said at a June 9 news conference in Madrid.  Spain pushed for a funding “cushion” over and above what
the industry may need because the “message it sends to the
market is much clearer and more forceful,” Rajoy told reporters
in Madrid yesterday. The IMF, in the June 8 report, said Spanish
banks would need at least 37 billion euros to withstand a
weakening economy.  While the rescue plan may provide a respite to Spanish debt
and the euro, its success will depend on execution.  “What a wonderful opportunity Spain has to sort all this
out,” said  Simon Maughan , a financial industry analyst at
Olivetree Securities in London. “But I’m afraid they’re going
to squander it.”  Affecting Banks  Only a commitment by Spain to buy bad assets from lenders
and manage them in a so-called bad bank will cure the ills of
the country’s banking system, Maughan said.  “The money is there, but the question is now, how are you
going to use it?” Maughan said in a phone interview. “If this
money actually goes into the banks and allows for proper
writedowns, then great -- but if just sits on their balance
sheets, the uncertainty will continue.”  De Guindos and Rajoy both said conditions on the loans from
Europe would apply only to the banks that take the money and
wouldn’t affect the government’s economic or fiscal policy.
Spain is already pruning state spending and raising taxes to
tackle a  budget deficit  that is the euro-area’s third-largest,
at 8.9 percent of gross domestic product.  Needing Help  Before the bailout announcement, Spain’s bank-rescue fund,
known as FROB, had about 5 billion euros in cash. That compares
with the 19 billion euros in state support sought by the  Bankia
group (BKIA) , Spain’s third-biggest lender, which was nationalized last
month. The 100 billion euros from Europe helps remove doubts
about funding the recapitalization of the banks that do need
more money, said Nomura’s Quinn.  The next questions are which lenders will require the funds
and how much they’ll need. Spanish authorities will weigh the
findings of the IMF and the independent auditors, Oliver Wyman
Ltd. and Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. The Bank of Spain,
the country’s banking regulator, was accused in the IMF report
of being too slow to tackle weaker lenders, a failure that
allowed “growing vulnerabilities” to develop.  “They will want to remove the uncertainty,” said Quinn.
“The fact there is 100 billion euros means that there isn’t the
same financial limitation on enforcing the provisioning needs
that may be shown up in the audits.”  ‘Deep Uncertainty’  In addition to Madrid-based Bankia, nationalized lenders
that need support include CatalunyaCaixa and  Banco de Valencia ,
seized last year. The IMF’s report said some former savings
banks that haven’t taken government money, as well as medium-
sized and small private-sector banks, may post losses this year
after provisioning for bad loans.  Analysts have been applying the level of provisioning
planned by Bankia across the industry to determine which other
lenders may be vulnerable.  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP)  may need to set aside an
additional 3.8 billion euros to take loan-loss provisions to the
levels planned by Bankia, according to Santiago Lopez, an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  Popular, which holds a  shareholders’ meeting  today, insists
it doesn’t need state aid. The Madrid-based lender said in a
June 6 filing to regulators that it would earn a total of 905
million euros in profit this year and next as it uses asset
sales to fund provisions for bad loans.  “We find ourselves in a situation of deep uncertainty that
we hope will be relieved with the measures adopted and the
urgent conclusion of the valuation work now underway,” Banco
Popular Chairman Angel Ron told shareholders today.  Irish Solution  For Maughan of Olivetree, Spain’s best chance of restoring
confidence in a banking system burdened by more than 180 billion
euros of toxic real estate assets would be to remove them from
the lenders’ balance sheets. The Irish government, which sought
a bailout in 2010, funded a so-called bad bank to take real
estate off lenders’ books, forcing writedowns of 58 percent.  “The Irish forced the banks to take writedowns by saying
we will take your loans off your balance sheet for you, and we
will buy them at 35 cents on the euro,” said Maughan. “If you
really want to stand up and be credible and say 100 billion
euros is the right number, use the money to take the bad loans
off the banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  