-- Spain’s Bailout Defeat Weakens Rajoy’s Deficit Goal
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-06-11T16:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/spain-s-bailout-defeat-weakens-rajoy-s-bid-to-meet-deficit-goal.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
surrender to European officials on taking a bailout for Spain’s
banks may weaken his political authority and his credibility in
financial markets.  Rajoy’s June 9 request for as much as 100 billion euros
($125 billion) after stating two weeks ago that Spain wouldn’t
need a rescue marks a swift reversal for the premier who won the
biggest majority in 30 years in November. It may fuel skepticism
he can meet his deficit-cutting promises.  “The emperor’s clothes are tattered,”  Simon Maughan ,
financial strategist at Olivetree Securities Ltd., said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Unless he uses this money to
attack the regions and control the failed cajas, what threads he
has left will be stripped off him.”  Rajoy is trying to persuade regional leaders and voters to
accept austerity, and convince bond investors the cuts will
deliver the deficit goals he has pledged. Should he fail, he may
have to return for a larger rescue for the Spanish sovereign,
potentially draining the euro area’s financial ammunition.  Domestic Credibility  “Clearly his domestic credibility will have been hampered
by this U-turn but at least he is partially recognizing the
depth of the problem,” said  Stuart Thomson , a fixed income fund
manager at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow, who predicts
another bailout, this time for the government itself, within 18
months. “This bailout is predicated on a return to growth next
year and we don’t think that’s possible.”  Spanish  government bonds  fell the most in almost a month
with the yield on 10-year debt rising 30 basis points to 6.52
percent at 5:39 p.m. in Madrid. The country’s benchmark stock
index, the Ibex 35, closed down 0.5 percent after climbing as
much as 5.9 percent in early trading.  Part of Rajoy’s challenge is to bring regional governments
in line after their mismanagement caused the country to miss its
deficit-reduction targets last year. Regions also allowed the
cajas, or savings banks, under their sway to run amok during the
credit boom, leaving lenders loaded with real estate losses.  Rajoy’s fumbling of the Spanish banking crisis reinforced
investors’ perceptions that European officials are still
struggling to get a handle on the scale of the debt crisis
almost three years after  Greece  confessed its  budget deficit  was
higher than it had previously admitted. After a European summit
in March, Rajoy announced that Spain would miss its deficit
target. He hadn’t warned his counterparts.  No Clothes  “The entire euro zone political class has no clothes,
though I’d hesitate to pick out Spain especially,” said  Simon Johnson , former chief economist at the  International Monetary
Fund  and now a professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology . He said Spain will probably need more than 100
billion euros to fix its banking system. “Spain’s handling of
everything in the past two to three years has been very
problematic,” he added.  Spain has made at least four attempts to clean up its banks
since the collapse of the real estate boom in 2008, tightening
provisioning rules, encouraging mergers and coaxing lenders onto
the stock market.  Bankia (BKIA) , which was nationalized on May 9, was
among lenders that sold shares to the public last year in
response to government incentives. The IMF said the country’s
“gradual approach” had allowed weak banks to undermine
financial stability.  The Spanish economy fell into a second  recession  in three
years in the final quarter of 2011.  Fitch Ratings  last week
forecast the slump will carry through next year. The company cut
the government’s credit rating to BBB, two levels from junk.  Market Access  While Rajoy has said since April that Spain risked losing
access to  capital markets , he continued to rule out the need for
external help.  The premier said as recently as May 28 there would be no
bailout for Spanish banks. Economy Minister Luis De Guindos said
on May 11 that 15 billion euros would be more than enough to
cover the needs arising from the second of two banking decrees
he has drafted this year. Bankia Group undermined that forecast
on May 25 by asking for 19 billion euros to absorb losses and
bolster capital after its nationalization.  As the cost of rebuilding the banks mounted, foreign
investors sold the government’s bonds on concern the state would
struggle to fix the financial system without losing control of
public borrowing. The extra yield investors seek to hold Spanish
10-year debt instead of German bunds reached a record 548 basis
points on June 1, raising the pressure on Rajoy to change tack.  Semantic Discussion  “Their policy of dickering and delaying on giving out
information piecemeal has contributed a lot to the problems
which they are in,” said  Thomas Mayer , an economic adviser to
Deutsche Bank AG in  Frankfurt .  Even yesterday, Rajoy refused to acknowledge that Spain had
been rescued by the European Union, dismissing the issue as a
“semantic discussion.” He said the bailout agreement was a
sign of confidence in the Spanish government.  “Because we’d earned our credibility, the result of the
euro group meeting last night became possible,” he said at a
news conference in  Madrid  yesterday before flying to  Poland  to
watch the national soccer team play in the Euro 2012
championship. “Now the situation has been resolved,” he added.  Under the terms of the June 9 deal, Spain will have access
to up to 100 billion euros of financing from the EU that will be
channeled to lenders through the government’s bank-rescue fund.
European officials will set out how the rescued banks should
restructure and the state will be on the hook for the full
amount.  “Funny how to politicians words are more important than
action,” said Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank A/S
in an e-mailed note. “A bailout is a bailout  Spain , sorry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  