-- Spanish Bondholders May Rank Behind Official Loans
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-06-11T07:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/spanish-bondholders-to-rank-behind-official-loans-after-bailout.html
Investors holding bonds issued by
 Spain  and its banks will probably rank behind official creditors
in the queue for payment after the nation asked for a bailout of
as much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion).  The funds will be channeled through the state-run FROB
bank-rescue fund and Spain will “retain the full responsibility
of the financial assistance and will sign” the agreement with
the other partners, according to the  statement  issued June 9.
The document did not make clear whether the European Stability
Mechanism, the region’s permanent support fund, which is likely
to start operating in July, or the temporary European Financial
Stability Facility, will make the loan.  “This is state financing, and the risks of an equity
injection into the banks will stay with Spain,” said  Alberto Gallo , head of European macro credit research at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “Spain needs a systematic
restructuring of its banking system, which could entail haircuts
to subordinated bank debt. Official lenders on the other hand
are likely to demand seniority.”  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has been forced to
abandon his attempt to recapitalize the nation’s banks without
outside help as the country’s descent into recession obliged
lenders to own up to spiraling losses. While Rajoy said
yesterday the agreement was “the opening of a  credit line ,”
rather than a bailout such as those received by Greece, Ireland
and Portugal, and the conditions of the loan affected the
financial industry, the sovereign is ultimately responsible.  Preferred Creditor  If the cash were to come from the ESM, its  treaty  provides
it with preferred creditor status, junior only to the
 International Monetary Fund . The EFSF isn’t explicitly a
preferred creditor, prompting Finland’s Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen to demand collateral if the facility were used to
advance the money. Even so, the Greek example showed that
official lenders aren’t willing to accept losses, preferring to
force private bondholders to take greater writedowns in a
restructuring.  Euro-area leaders would prefer Spain’s financing to come
from the ESM because the fund will have paid-in capital, German
lawmaker  Norbert Barthle , the budgetary expert in Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union caucus, told Stuttgarter Zeitung
newspaper. The authorities should examine whether the ESM has
sufficient capital, he was quoted as saying.  “The risk is now all Spanish bonds are inferior to the
ESM,” Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank A/S in
Hellerup,  Denmark , wrote in a research note. “ Finland  already
declared that if this loan is coming from EFSF they want
collateral.”  Bonds Rally  Spanish bonds rallied last week, with the  10-year yield 
dropping 31 basis points, or 0.31 percentage point, to 6.22
percent. The yield has declined from this year’s high of 6.7
percent on May 30 and was down 19 basis points at 6.03 percent
at 8:20 a.m. in London today.  “This financial assistance will not only not undermine the
present conditions of the current stock of Spanish public debt:
it will also reinforce its overall solvency,” Spain’s economy
ministry said in a  statement  today.  “Holders of Spanish  government bonds  have just been
subordinated to bank recapitalization funding,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at Investec Bank Plc in  London . “This helps
with liquidity but I can’t see how it doesn’t undermine
bondholders’ status.”  ESM Treaty  Article 12 of the ESM treaty requires government bond terms
to contain collective action clauses from January 2013. These
allow a set majority of bondholders to force minorities to take
losses in a restructuring and were used in March to compel
private investors to accept a writedown of 53.5 percent of the
face value of their Greek debt.  Holders of the subordinated debt of banks that Spain has to
rescue will probably have to accept losses, according to  Gary Jenkins , director of Swordfish Research Ltd. in Amersham,
 England .  “Whilst Spanish politicians tried to claim that this was
not a bailout it is of course a de-facto bailout of Spain
itself,” Jenkins wrote in a note. “Considering that sovereign
support for  Greece  required private-sector involvement it would
be a bit of a turn up for the books if the equivalent for banks
did not involve PSI.”  Irish banks raised capital by forcing holders of
subordinated bonds to sell back their securities at a fraction
of face value, generating a capital gain they used to increase
their  capital ratios . Senior bondholders of Irish banks weren’t
affected amid concern lenders elsewhere would struggle to raise
funds if such securities were written down.  Provisions making senior debt subject to so-called bail-ins
aren’t due to become effective until 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  