-- Speculators Fail to Reap Rally in Crops After Wager Cut
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-06-11T20:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/speculators-fail-to-reap-crop-rally-after-wager-cut-commodities.html
Speculators reduced wagers on a
rally in agricultural prices to a five-month low just as returns
from crops and livestock beat most other commodities on concern
that parched fields from  Iowa  to  Russia  will curb supply.  Hedge funds  and other money managers cut net-long  positions 
across 11 U.S. farm goods by 20 percent to 312,099 futures and
options in the week ended June 5, the lowest since Dec. 27,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Corn holdings
tumbled to the lowest since June 2010 and traders switched to
betting on a decline in wheat prices. Agricultural commodities
accounted for nine of the 10 best performers in the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials last week.  Speculators cut combined bullish bets across the S&P GSCI
by 13 percent to the lowest this year on mounting concern that
 Europe ’s widening debt crisis will derail global growth and curb
demand for commodities. Agricultural prices rallied as dry
weather harmed the corn crop in Iowa and  Illinois , the biggest
U.S. growers, and Russia’s government declared a state of
emergency in some areas because of drought.  “People don’t look at fundamentals when the crisis
overshadows everything,” said  Stanley Crouch , who helps oversee
$2 billion of assets as chief investment officer at  New York- 
based Aegis Capital Corp. “The tug of war gets tough when the
correlation between the economy and agricultural commodities is
very high.”  Equities Rally  The S&P GSCI Agriculture Spot Index jumped 4.1 percent last
week, the first advance since mid-May, as the wider gauge of 24
commodities climbed 1.2 percent. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities rose 2.9 percent, and the dollar retreated 0.5
percent against a basket of six trading partners. Treasuries
lost 0.9 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows. The
broader S&P GSCI fell 1 percent to settle at 582.43 in New York
today.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  probably will cut its
estimates for this year’s domestic corn, soybean and wheat
inventories, Morgan Stanley analysts led by New York-based
Hussein Allidina said in a report June 8. The USDA will update
its global crop outlook tomorrow.  Crops are wilting at a time when  China ’s appetite for meat
from grain-fed livestock is boosting global demand and sales
from the U.S., the biggest exporter of corn and soybeans.
Increasing demand helped U.S. farm  income  reach a record $98.1
billion in 2011. It will be $91.7 billion this year, the second-
highest ever, the government estimates.  Most Acres  The rally in agriculture may reverse should growing
conditions improve. Corn traded in  Chicago , a global benchmark,
fell as much as 18 percent in the three months to June 1 on
prospects for U.S. farmers planting the most acres since 1937.
Wheat supply is also improving after growers  gathered  20 percent
of the winter crop by June 3, compared with a five-year average
of 3 percent, government data show.  Funds cut corn  bets  by 33 percent to 41,337 contracts, the
lowest since June 29, 2010, the CFTC data show. Traders are
holding a net-short position in wheat of 2,549 contracts,
switching from a net-long holding of 15,585 contracts a week
earlier. Soybean wagers fell for a fifth consecutive week.  Global food prices had their biggest drop in more than two
years in May as the cost of dairy products slumped. An index of
55 food items tracked by the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization fell 4.2 percent, the agency said June 7. The gauge
dropped 14 percent from a record in February 2011, when higher
costs coupled with rising unemployment helped spark protests
across the  Middle East  and North Africa.  ‘Facing Headwinds’  “Commodities are facing headwinds in the form of a global
slowdown,” said Greyson Colvin, the managing partner at New
York-based Colvin & Co., which manages $18 million of assets.
“It’s hard to be long at this point. We are on the sidelines
waiting for things to play out. The expectations for the 2012
crop are huge.”  Money managers trimmed holdings across the S&P GSCI to
538,156 contracts by June 5, the lowest since Dec. 27, the CFTC
data show. The gauge rallied 1.3 percent the following day, the
most in two months.  Investors added $17 million to commodity funds in the week
ended June 6, driven by an inflow of $647 million into gold and
precious metals, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
EPFR Global, which tracks money flows.  Fund managers lowered bets on a rally in raw sugar for a
second week. Prices surged 4.7 percent to 19.98 cents a pound
last week in  New York , the biggest gain since mid-March. Heavy
rainfall has hampered production and shipments from  Brazil , the
biggest grower and exporter.  Cocoa Holdings  Speculators increased net-short cocoa holdings to 11,015
contracts, the most bearish since April 24. Futures for
September delivery surged 5.7 percent last week, the most since
February.  Nigeria , the fourth-largest producer, faces an
infestation of canker worms that threaten about half of the
nation’s trees, the Cocoa Association of Nigeria said June 5.  “Investors weren’t willing to go long because of the
global fears and were not looking at individual commodities,”
said Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at
BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,  Alabama . “The story here
is more fundamental. A weather problem can affect wheat prices,
but people were more glued to the global financial space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  