-- Statoil, Shell’s Norway Oil Operations Threatened by Strike
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-10T11:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/statoil-shell-s-norway-oil-operations-threatened-by-strike-1-.html
Well-service workers at  Baker Hughes
Inc. (BHI)  started a strike over pay and pensions at 12 offshore oil
installations in Norway, threatening output and other operations
by companies including  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   The 114 workers stopped work after a midnight deadline
passed without an agreement being reached, the Norwegian Oil
Industry Association, or OLF, said in an e-mailed  statement .  “There’ll be no short-term impact on production, but we’ll
have to postpone some drilling projects,”  Ola Anders Skauby, a
spokesman for Stavanger, Norway-based Statoil, said in a phone
interview. “It will affect drilling on some of the mobile rigs
we rent and on some of our own rigs, but we can’t yet say how
many projects this will impact.”  The Baker Hughes pay dispute is the third to affect the
Norwegian oil industry in the last two weeks. A strike by pilot-
boat workers threatened output at land-based facilities before
it was resolved on June 2, while a walk-out by security staff at
the country’s airports curbed helicopter transport to offshore
platforms before the conflict ended on June 8.  “Drilling rigs will fall out first,” Rolf Onarheim, a
spokesman for the Safe labor union, said by mobile phone before
the talks ended. “In the longer term, oil and gas production
might also be affected.”  Affected Installations  OLF, which represents employers, also said the Baker Hughes
strike will affect both drilling rigs and production platforms.
Statoil operates eight of the 12 installations that will be
affected, while Shell,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ,
 Centrica Plc (CNA) ,  Suncor Energy Inc (SU) ,  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) 
have exclusive or shared operatorships of the others.  Statoil declined to say how much production may become
affected if the strike continues.  “We don’t want to speculate on long-term effects because
we are a third party affected by this and don’t take part in the
oil service labor negotiations,” Skauby said. “But we are
keeping an eye on the events.”  Shell in Norway won’t suffer any immediate impact from the
strike, Kitty Eide, a spokesperson, said in an e-mail reply to
questions, without elaborating on longer term effects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen on  at
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  