-- Stiglitz Bares Billionaires’ Weapon -- Government: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-06-10T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/stiglitz-bares-billionaires-secret-weapon-government-books.html
As a populist war cry, “We are the
99 percent” is hard to beat. What the movement has lacked,
though, is a coherent message and agenda. Until now.  Joseph E. Stiglitz , a Nobel Prize-winning economist who
grew up amid the steel-mill grit and grind of Gary,  Indiana , has
spent decades studying the subject of his provocative new book,
“The Price of Inequality.”  His conclusion: Economic growth, democracy and even the
upper class itself suffer when the top 1 percent of Americans
earns a fifth of the country’s income and controls more than a
third of its wealth, as they do today.  “The rich do not exist in a vacuum,” he says in a blunt
message to the inhabitants of what journalist  Robert Frank  calls
Richistan. “They need a functioning society around them to
sustain their position and produce income from their assets.”  Yet the U.S. government, far from reducing inequality, has
spent 30 years doing the opposite, he argues: warping the market
to shift money from the bottom and middle of society to the top.
Government, in this view, is the billionaire’s secret weapon.  Stiglitz, who teaches at  Columbia University  in  New York ,
has been exploring how inequality shapes economic behavior ever
since his doctoral dissertation at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology  in the 1960s. His findings, presented here with
precision and passion, are grounded in behavioral economics,
game theory, information asymmetries and more.  Market Religion  A former World Bank chief economist and Clinton White House
adviser, Stiglitz has zero patience with what he calls the
“religious belief” that  markets  are always efficient and the
corollary, that governments are ever inefficient. Urging a
greater balance between the two, he seeks to broaden the debate
with a philosophical question:  Has American society become so unfair that “the land of
opportunity” is now a myth?  Inequality has been growing for three decades,
concentrating the nation’s winnings in the hands of the 1
percent even as the poor get poorer and the middle class hollows
out, Stiglitz says. The last time wealth grew so condensed was
just before the Great Depression.  This curbs consumption and perpetuates recessions, he says.
The  1 percent club , after all, saves 15 percent to 25 percent of
its income, which reduces demand and increases unemployment, he
says.  Economic Stimulation  Since the days of John  Maynard Keynes , governments have
sought to counter shortfalls in demand with increases in either
public or private spending. With the 1 percent bent on
restraining  government expenditure , the burden for stimulating
the economy fell on tax cuts and low Federal Reserve interest
rates, Stiglitz says.  The devastating result was the  housing bubble , which  Alan Greenspan  couldn’t (or wouldn’t) see because he believed markets
were fully efficient. Half a decade after the bubble burst, the
slump grinds on.  Stiglitz opens with a grim panorama of the economic
landscape: One out of six Americans couldn’t find  full-time
jobs . Millions of families lost their homes. Middle-aged people
faced premature retirement. And too many college graduates
couldn’t find work yet were saddled with tens of thousands of
dollars in  student loans .  Inequality Level  Among advanced industrial nations, the U.S. now has the
highest level of inequality, he says, and the immiseration
didn’t happen by chance. Though market forces played a role,
government policies shaped those forces. This should be obvious
to anyone who reflects on why Wall Street banks were allowed to
gamble with federally insured deposits -- and got bailouts when
their wagers blew up.  Or why shareholders have no binding say on executive pay.
Or why  Warren Buffett  pays a lower income-tax rate than his
secretary.  “There’s been class warfare going on for the last 20
years,” Buffett explains, “and my class has won.”  As you might expect, Stiglitz doesn’t discuss the
governmental excesses that sparked the Reaganite and Thatcherite
rebellions of the late 1970s -- unions holding countries
hostage, wage-price spirals and the Great Inflation. What of
today’s abuses, though?  For all the talk about “starving the beast” of
government, “we haven’t achieved the minimalist state that
libertarians advocate,” he writes. What we’ve created instead,
he says, is a state too weak to improve public goods such as
infrastructure and education yet strong enough to shower a
bounty on the wealthy. It’s government “of the 1 percent, for
the 1 percent, by the 1 percent,” he says.  Fair Competition  Stiglitz isn’t fomenting the politics of envy. He is,
rather, seeking to show how fairness and efficiency can work
hand-in-hand, making markets more competitive. He closes,
tellingly, with an observation Alexis de Tocqueville made about
19th-century America.  The genius of America, the French thinker said, was “self-
interest properly understood.” Society’s well-being, in other
words, hinges on minding the self-interest of others as well as
ourselves.  “Those canny Americans understood a basic fact,” Stiglitz
says, paraphrasing Tocqueville. “Looking out for the other guy
isn’t just good for the soul; it’s good for business.”  Sometimes the French understand America better than
Americans do.  “The Price of Inequality: How Today’s Divided Society
Endangers Our Future” is published by Norton in the U.S. and
will be available from  Allen Lane  in the U.K. later this month
(414 pages, $27.95, 25 pounds). To buy this book in  North
America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 John Mariani  on wine and  Robert Heller  on pop music.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 