-- Syria’s Sieda Calls on UN to Use Force to Protect Civilians
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-06-10T16:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/syria-s-sieda-calls-on-un-to-use-force-to-protect-civilians-1-.html
The new leader of the Syrian
National Council urged the  United Nations  to authorize the use
of force to protect civilians from “annihilation” at the hands
of President Bashar al-Assad’s loyalists.  “We call for the continuation of efforts to protect
civilians by stopping the killing machine of the authorities,”
Abdulbaset Sieda said at a news conference in Istanbul after he
was elected to replace Burhan Ghalioun at the helm of the
umbrella opposition group.  Sieda’s remarks came as government forces shelled the city
of Homs after killing nearly 100 people yesterday, according to
activists, and as  Russia  warned that  Syria  was sliding toward a
full-scale civil war.  Opposition groups have been struggling to unify as the
international community searches for ways to prevent the 15-
month conflict from deteriorating into further violence. Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  warned yesterday that there was
an “urgent” need for an international conference, which Iran
could attend, to pressure both sides of the conflict.  The international community remains reluctant to use force
in Syria where more than 10,000 people have been killed. Russia
has cited the NATO military intervention in  Libya  as an example
of what is sees as the abuse of UN powers to bring about a
change of regime.  Kurdish Minority  Sieda, a member of the country’s Kurdish minority, assured
other communities, including Assad’s Alawite sect, that their
rights would be protected in a future democratic and pluralist
Syria after the ouster of the government.  His election followed complaints from activists that the
SNC has not met their aspirations and has monopolized power. A
statement issued on May 17 by the  Local Coordination Committees 
said it “deplored” the situation of the SNC which had drifted
from the “spirit and demands of the Syrian revolution.”  Ghalioun told  Al Arabiya  on May 17, shortly after he was
re-elected as head of the umbrella group, that he wanted to
stepdown. Sieda represented the National Kurdish Bloc in the
SNC, according to the  opposition group’s website .  Syrian security forces killed 30 people today, Al Arabiya
television reported, citing activists. Ninety-six people were
slain by Syrian security forces yesterday, the Local
Coordination Committees, an activist group, said on its website.
The  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said about 83 people
were killed across Syria, including 29 in Homs, where Syrian
forces attacked neighborhoods using shells and heavy machine
guns, according to an e-mailed statement from the U.K.-based
group.  Reported Massacre  UN observers on June 8 reached the now-abandoned farming
village of Mazraat al-Qubair and found evidence of a massacre.
As many as 78 people were killed by forces loyal to Assad in the
village, activists said.  The Qubair attack follows the massacre of 108 people,
including 49 children, in Houla May 25 in one of the worst
atrocities of the 15-month uprising.  Assad, 46, is fighting for the survival of his Alawite
family’s four-decade hold on power. While more than 70 percent
of Syria’s population is Sunni, Assad and the ruling elite are
in a minority, belonging to an offshoot of the Shiite branch of
Islam that predominates in  Iran  and which stands to lose
privileges should he fall. Assad has portrayed the unrest as an
Arab-Western conspiracy and the rebels as radical Islamists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  