-- U.K.’s Top Three Ministers Face Grilling on News Corp. Links
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-06-11T11:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/u-k-s-top-three-ministers-face-grilling-on-links-to-news-corp-.html
The three most powerful men in
Britain take turns testifying about their relationship with
Rupert Murdoch this week, as the inquiry set up by Prime
Minister  David Cameron  keeps its spotlight on his government.  Cameron is due to spend a full day in front of Judge Brian Leveson’s inquiry in London on June 14, answering questions
about his links with Murdoch’s News Corp., with Rebekah Brooks,
who used to head its U.K. publishing unit, and with former News
of the World editor  Andy Coulson , whom Cameron later hired as
his communications chief.  The inquiry hears this afternoon from Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne , who has been at the heart of Cameron’s
political operations for the last seven years and was behind the
decision to employ Coulson from 2007 to 2011. Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  will appear on June 13. He has made the
point that his Liberal Democrat party neither wooed nor was
courted by Murdoch, in contrast to Cameron’s Conservatives, or
the  Labour Party , which formed the previous government.  The probe, set up by Cameron last year amid public anger
over the phone-hacking scandal at the News of the World, has
been described by one aide as a nightmare for ministers. They
face questioning for hours under oath, carried live on
television, and their e-mails and text messages have been
released to the public. One set showed Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  and a News Corp. lobbyist calling each other “Daddy” and
“Papa” after their children were born the same day.  ‘Industrial Scale’  The first witness today was former Prime Minister  Gordon Brown . He had a close relationship with Murdoch before falling
out with him in 2009 when  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Sun newspaper, Britain’s
biggest-selling daily, decided to switch its support to Cameron
ahead of the 2010 general election. Brown accused the company
last year of being at the heart of a “criminal media nexus”
that engaged in “law-breaking on an industrial scale.”  Brown contradicted Murdoch’s account to the inquiry in
April of a phone call after that switch, in which the News Corp.
chairman described Brown saying he’d “make war on your
company.” The former premier denied the call had taken place.  “I didn’t call him, I had no reason to want to call him, I
wouldn’t have called him,” Brown told the inquiry. “I’m
shocked and surprised that it should be suggested. There was no
such conversation.”  Cystic Fibrosis  Brown accused The Sun of obtaining a 2006 story about his
son being diagnosed with cystic fibrosis from medical staff in
the Scottish hospital where he was being treated. The newspaper
has said it was given the story by another parent at the
hospital.  “There was only a few medical people who knew that our son
had this condition,” Brown said. He said the hospital had
concluded it was “highly likely” the information had come from
a member of their staff, comments confirmed by the local health
authority in a  statement on its website .  Brown disputed Brooks’s testimony to the inquiry last month
that he and his wife Sarah had authorized the Sun to run the
story. He said he and Sarah were deeply upset when the newspaper
contacted them and initially wanted to issue a press release to
all media. “This was unacceptable to the Sun newspaper,” he
said.  ‘Most Forgiving’  Asked why he and his wife had gone on to attend birthday
parties for Brooks and her wedding, Brown said Sarah “is one of
the most forgiving people I know.” A spokesman for Brooks said
she had nothing to add to her testimony.  Brown accused Cameron’s Conservatives of having “supported
every one of the recommendations of the Murdoch group” on media
regulation, saying that Rupert Murdoch’s son James pursued an
“aggressive agenda” that was “highly politicized.”  Another former prime minister,  John Major , will testify
tomorrow. He was initially supported by Murdoch newspapers,
which backed his 1990 bid to become Conservative leader, and his
successful 1992 general-election campaign. The newspapers then
turned on him, exposing sex scandals in his government and
transferring their support to Labour’s  Tony Blair  in the 1997
election. After Major, the inquiry will hear from current Labour
leader  Ed Miliband , and his deputy,  Harriet Harman .  Scottish Independence  Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  will also testify on
June 13. He has already released letters showing how he sought
the support of Murdoch and his newspapers for his campaign for
Scottish independence from the rest of the U.K.  Labour has repeated accusations that Cameron and Hunt were
biased in favor of News Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12 billion)
bid for full control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , made
two years ago and abandoned last July as the hacking scandal
widened. “You can serve up dinner, but you don’t have to serve
up BSkyB as part of the dinner,” Brown said today.  Hunt spent six hours defending himself at the inquiry on
May 31. During his testimony, the culture secretary revealed he
had sent a text message to  James Murdoch , congratulating him on
clearing a European regulatory hurdle on the bid just hours
before Cameron gave him responsibility for overseeing it in the
U.K., at the end of 2010.  Cameron has defended his dealings with News Corp.,
rejecting accusations that he sought Murdoch’s backing before
coming to power in return for favorable treatment of the company
and its BSkyB once he’d taken office.  ‘Big Deal’  “Was there some big deal, some big agreement between me
and  Rupert Murdoch  or James Murdoch that, in return for the
support for the  Conservative Party , I would somehow help their
business interests or allow this merger to go through? That is
not true,” Cameron said in the House of Commons April 29. “I
never had any inappropriate conversations with anyone about
this.”  Brooks was charged last month with conspiring with her
husband and others to cover up the phone-hacking affair. Coulson
was charged May 31 with perjury in a case related to a former
Scottish lawmaker who sued the News of the World for defamation
in 2006.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  