-- U.S. Retail Sales Probably Fell on Drop in Auto Purchases
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-06-10T04:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/u-s-retail-sales-probably-fell-on-drop-in-auto-purchases.html
Retail  sales  in the U.S. probably
declined in May for the first time in a year as slower
employment and subdued wage gains damped demand for automobiles,
economists said before reports this week.  The projected 0.2 percent decrease last month would follow
a 0.1 percent gain in April that was the smallest this year,
according to the  median  forecast of 62 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of Commerce Department figures due June 13.
A measure of the cost of living fell last month for the first
time in two years, reflecting cheaper gasoline prices, other
data may show.  Limited payroll growth and unemployment exceeding 8 percent
may make it tough for  consumer spending  to improve after a
first-quarter pace that was the fastest in a year. At the same
time, lower prices at the gasoline pump are providing relief for
Americans and also helping contain inflation, giving the  Federal
Reserve  more room to stimulate the economy should Europe’s debt
crisis worsen.  “Retail sales will be quite soft,” said Jennifer Lee, a
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “It is
quite evident that the job market is slowing. The Fed is much
more worried about the high level of unemployment than about
inflation, which is likely to remain moderate.”  Household purchases will grow at 2.3 percent annual rates
in each of the final three quarters of 2012, according to the
median forecast in a separate Bloomberg survey of economists
taken from June 1 to June 5.  Consumer spending , which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy, expanded at a 2.7 percent
pace last quarter.  Labor Market  Monthly employment gains have decelerated from a high this
year of 275,000 in January, Labor Department figures show.
Payrolls rose 69,000 in May following a 77,000 increase in
April. The jobless rate climbed to 8.2 percent from 8.1 percent.
Average hourly earnings rose 1.7 percent last month from May
2011, the smallest increase since December 2010.  Cooling employment and a drop in stock prices since the end
of April are also weighing on Americans’ confidence. A report on
June 15 may show the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of  sentiment  fell this month from the highest
level since October 2007, economists projected.  Atlanta-based Home Depot Inc., the largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer, is among companies whose business plans
assume slower economic growth and stubborn joblessness.  “We will still face higher-than-normal unemployment and
underemployment rates, with the consequence that value will
remain of major importance to our customers,” Chief Executive
Officer  Frank Blake  said on an analyst conference on June 6.
“Growth will be moderate.”  Auto Sales  Cars and light trucks sold at a 13.7 million annual rate in
May after April’s 14.4 million pace, Ward’s Automotive Group
data showed. Gains of 11 percent at  General Motors Co. (GM)  and 30
percent at Chrysler Group LLC trailed analysts’ projections.
 Ford Motor Co. (F) , the only major automaker whose 13 percent
increase in sales topped estimates, boosted incentives by about
$100 per vehicle.  Retail sales  excluding autos  probably were little changed
last month, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  The Commerce Department’s retail sales data, which aren’t
adjusted for prices, will reflect cheaper gasoline. A gallon of
regular  fuel  at the pump cost an average $3.71 in May, down from
this year’s peak of $3.94 on April 4, according to AAA, the
biggest U.S. auto group. It was $3.56 on June 7.  Less expensive gasoline may have helped free up cash for
other purchases such as clothing and home goods. May same-store
sales climbed more than analysts projected for  Target Corp. (TGT) , the
second-largest U.S. discount chain, and  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) , the
operator of the Victoria’s Secret lingerie stores, company
reports showed.  Retail Sales  Investors are counting on Americans to keep shopping. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Retailing (S15RETL)  Index, which includes
Macy’s Inc. and Gap Inc., has gained more than 16 percent this
year through June 8, compared with a 5.4 percent advance for the
broader  S&P 500. (SPX)   The decline in fuel costs is also subduing inflation. The
 consumer price index , the broadest of three gauges issued by
Labor Department each month, fell 0.2 percent in May after no
change in April, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The
report is due June 14.  Receding inflation gives the Fed more flexibility to take
steps to spur the economy if needed.  “The situation in  Europe  poses significant risks to the
U.S. financial system and economy and must be monitored
closely,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers on June
7. “As always, the Federal Reserve remains prepared to take
action as needed to protect the U.S. financial system and
economy in the event that financial stresses escalate.”  Manufacturing continues to support the economic expansion,
albeit at a slower pace, Fed reports may show this week.
Industrial production grew 0.1 percent in May after a 1.1
percent increase that was the biggest in more than a year,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. The report is due June
15.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  