-- U.S. Intelligence Lawmakers Back Prosecutor Probe of Leak Claims
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/u-s-intelligence-lawmakers-back-prosecutor-probe-of-leak-claims.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder’s
appointment of federal prosecutors to investigate intelligence
leaks on cyberattacks and drone strikes is a good start for a
probe that must be kept nonpartisan, two key lawmakers said.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , the California Democrat who leads
the Select Committee on Intelligence, and Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan Republican who heads a similarly named
House panel, discussed the leaks and Holder’s decision yesterday
during an interview on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”  Republicans have claimed that President Barack Obama’s
administration provided information for news reports about an
alleged U.S. cyberattack on Iran’s nuclear program, a thwarted
bomb plot by al-Qaeda’s Yemen affiliate and the president’s
personal role in approving a drone “kill list” to burnish his
national-security credentials ahead of the November election.
Obama has denied that White House officials leaked classified
information, calling the notion they would do so “offensive.”  Rogers questioned whether the two prosecutors appointed by
Holder could adequately investigate the “parade of leaks” when
people involved may be in the executive branch, Defense
Department,  Federal Bureau of Investigation  or the Attorney
General’s office.  “That’s a pretty small but pretty important group of
people, and so my question to the attorney general is, good
start, maybe, but we need to find out if they’ll have that
independence,” Rogers said on CBS. “And this needs to be fair,
it shouldn’t be a partisan thing.”  ‘Certainly Responsible’  Senator  John McCain , the  Arizona  Republican who was
defeated by Obama in the 2008 presidential election, has called
for an independent special counsel to look into the disclosures.  “It’s obvious on its face that this information came from
individuals who are with the administration,” McCain told CNN’s
“ State of the Union ” program. “The president might not have
done it himself, but the president is certainly responsible as
commander in chief.”  The FBI is investigating the leaks. The Central
Intelligence Agency has denied Rogers’ committee’s request for
information.  Holder named Ronald C. Machen Jr., U.S. attorney for the
 District of Columbia , and Rod Rosenstein, U.S. attorney for
Maryland, to investigate the leaks.  David Axelrod , Obama’s top campaign strategist, told CNN’s
“State of the Union” that he’s been careful not to give Holder
political advice to avoid appearing to exert influence over the
 Justice Department .  “So, I was very scrupulous about my interactions with the
attorney general, though he’s a friend,” Axelrod said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  