-- Vodafone’s Africa Inertia Hampers Chase to Narrow MTN Gap
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-06-11T16:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/vodacom-s-africa-inertia-hampers-chase-to-narrow-mtn-gap.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s South African
unit Vodacom should lead its African expansion if it is to
narrow the gap with  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , which has capitalized on its
rival’s inertia to build a business three times its size,
Investec Asset Management said.  MTN has built a customer base of 173 million users across
21 countries in Africa and the Middle East since the
Johannesburg-based mobile-phone company began in 1994. Vodacom,
started that same year, has 47.8 million subscribers, 60 percent
of whom are in South Africa with the rest in Tanzania,  Lesotho ,
 Democratic Republic  of Congo and Mozambique.  Vodafone, which has lost the position as the world’s
largest mobile-phone company to  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , should
consider selling its African units to  Vodacom (VOD) , giving it a
single entry into the continent, said  Rob Forsyth , who helps
manage the equivalent of $90 billion at  Investec Asset
Management  in Cape Town. The Newbury, England-based operator
sells services through businesses in Ghana, Kenya and Egypt,
which together have more than 63 million customers, according to
its website.  “It’s not clear who does what in Africa; is it Vodacom or
is it Vodafone?” said Forsyth. “The strategy is mixed up.”  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  and  France Telecom SA  are among
companies competing for a greater share of the market in Africa
where, according to Johannesburg-based BMI-Techknowledge Group,
less than 45 percent of its 1 billion people had handsets in
2011. People in  Europe , on average, have more than one handset
each. Mobile-phone penetration in China reached 74 percent in
April, data from the Beijing-based Ministry of Information
Industry show.  ‘Compelling Growth’  Vodacom trades at 11.9 times future earnings compared with
MTN’s 10.8 times earnings estimate, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Vodacom has committed to paying out 90 percent of
earning as dividends while MTN pays out 70 percent of earnings,
which is helping to support Vodacom’s share price, said
Khulekani Dlamini, head of research at Cape Town-based  Afena
Capital , which manages 20 billion rand ($2.4 billion) including
Vodacom shares.  MTN “offers compelling growth and valuation,” Barclays
Plc analysts, led by London-based JP Davids, said in a May 29
note. The company, which on May 28 said revenue in the first
four months of 2012 rose more than 10 percent, will continue to
post “sector-leading growth in earnings and shareholder
returns,” said the analysts, who have an overweight MTN rating.  Price War  Vodacom, 65 percent-held by Vodafone, has gained 63 percent
 since  it listed its stock on May 18, 2009. The stock has four
buy  recommendations , three sell ratings and 11 holds from
analysts that cover the company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. MTN, which has  increased  18 percent over the period,
has 13 buy recommendations and five holds.  Vodacom climbed 1.1 percent to 98 rand at the close in
Johannesburg, giving the company a market value of 145.8 billion
rand. MTN slid 0.9 percent to 133.15 rand, valuing the company
at 251 billion rand, the largest South African-based company on
the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange. (JALSH)   In  South Africa , smaller operators have started campaigns
to lure customers away from Vodacom and MTN with lower prices.  After hiring Vodacom’s founding Chief Executive Officer
Alan Knott-Craig in April, Cell C (Pty) Ltd., the third-largest
operator, reduced the price of its pre-paid packages by more
than 34 percent last month as it received a $180 million capital
injection from its controlling shareholder, Dubai-based Oger
Telecom Ltd. The following day Vodacom lowered its prices on
similar packages to match Cell C’s.  African Expansion  Telkom South Africa Ltd. (TKG) , which started its 8ta mobile-
phone service in 2010, said on June 8 that the unit had gained
almost 1.5 million mobile-phone subscribers. It plans to win 15
percent of the market by 2016.  Vodacom hasn’t entered a new market since it started
operating in  Mozambique  in 2003, according to its website, while
MTN in 2006 paid $5.5 billion for Lebanese group Investcom to
gain customers in Sudan, Syria, Liberia and Yemen. Under
Vodafone’s control, Vodacom’s previous major acquisition soured
with the company on June 8 disposing of part of its $700 million
Gateway Communications asset within four years.  Bharti Airtel in 2010 bought the African assets of Zain,
Kuwait’s largest mobile phone operator, giving the New Delhi-
based company operations in 17 African countries with 53.1
million subscribers at the end of March, Bharti said on its
 website .  France Telecom , has operations in 18 African countries
through its  Orange  brand, wants to double emerging market
revenue by 2015. In  Africa  its number of customers increased 16
percent to 76 million  users  by the end of March.  ‘One Pocket to Another’  Vodafone will support Vodacom to pursue opportunities
anywhere in Africa excluding the Sahel, Vodacom Chief Executive
Officer Pieter Uys said in a May 21 interview, referring to a
region that abuts the southern border of the Sahara desert from
 Senegal  across Africa to  Eritrea . While the issue of handing
over the Kenya and Ghana operations has not been discussed, it
“may come out in the future,” he said in an interview at the
company’s Johannesburg head-quarters.  Vodafone doesn’t see a need to transfer its units in Ghana
or Kenya to another subsidiary, said Vodafone Chief Executive
Officer  Vittorio Colao  on May 22. That would be equivalent to
“moving my wallet from one pocket to another.”  Vodafone owns 40 percent of  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) , Kenya’s biggest
mobile-phone company, a 54.9 percent stake in  Vodafone Egypt
Telecommunications Co. (VODE)  and 70 percent of Vodafone Ghana.  “There’s no limitation” to further acquisitions, Nick
Read, Vodafone’s regional CEO for Africa, said. “The real point
is to find good assets or assets you can turn around at a good
price.”  Angola, Mali, Ethiopia and Eritrea are the last of the big
opportunities left for mobile licenses in Africa, Afena’s
Dlamini said.  Vodacom will struggle to catch rivals, said Investec’s
Forsyth. “That doesn’t mean they shouldn’t try.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  