-- Wall Street Shrugs as JPMorgan Trades Lop Off $27 Billion
-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2012-06-11T19:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/wall-street-shrugs-as-jpmorgan-trades-lop-off-27-billion.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer Jamie Dimon plans to testify before Congress this week
about his firm’s $2 billion trading loss. His Wall Street
colleagues don’t understand why.  “Occasional losses are inevitable,” said  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) ’s Stephen A. Schwarzman, 65, CEO of the largest private-
equity firm. “Publicly excoriating JPMorgan serves no purpose
except to reduce people’s confidence in the financial system.”  The loss sliced $27 billion from JPMorgan’s market value in
the month after the May 10 disclosure, while triggering at least
five federal probes and two planned Capitol Hill hearings with
Dimon. It also renewed debate about whether curbs on trading by
bankers were tightened enough after their wrong-way bets pushed
the system to the brink of collapse in 2008.  Executives, lobbyists and analysts said in more than a
dozen interviews that the public stir is an overreaction to a
minor misstep.  “I kind of shrug,” said Bill Archer, 58, a former co-
chairman of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s capital markets committee
and now a partner at buyout firm Veronis Suhler Stevenson LLC in
New York. “That’s just the way the world is.”  JPMorgan shares dropped  17 percent  through last week after
the New York-based bank, the largest in the U.S., disclosed the
losses on  credit derivatives  held by its chief investment
office. Dimon, 56, had shifted the unit from a conservative
manager of unused cash into a profit center that bet on riskier
assets, former employees have said. Some wagers became so large
that they were driving prices in the $10 trillion market and
couldn’t easily be unwound, Bloomberg News reported.  Bigger or Safer  U.S. banks can be tiny and safe or big global competitors
that make mistakes, Archer said. “There are wrongs that come
with too-big-to-fail, but there are a lot of rights,” he said.  Executives who say the loss is small for a firm that earned
$19 billion last year are missing the warning it represents
about unwieldy large lenders, said  Richard Sylla , a financial
historian at  New York  University’s Stern School of Business.  “Even a great banker like James Dimon can’t really manage
such a huge operation,” Sylla said. “They convince themselves
that everything is fine because they’re making money.”  U.S. Comptroller of the Currency Thomas J. Curry told the
Senate Banking Committee last week that the loss raises
“questions about the adequacy and rigor” of the bank’s risk
management. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  last month
called it a “pretty significant risk-management failure.”  U.S. Probes  Government investigations include the  Federal Reserve 
studying organizational issues, the comptroller looking into
trading, and the Securities and Exchange Commission examining
why the bank changed internal risk gauges earlier this year. The
Department of Justice and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission are also conducting inquiries, Bloomberg reported.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to
comment for this article.  Dimon, who averaged more than $1.9 million a month in
salary and bonuses in 2010 and 2011, dismissed initial concerns
and news reports as “a complete tempest in a teapot” on an
April 13 call with analysts. Dimon later said on May 10 when he
disclosed the loss that he should have paid more attention.  The market’s response and media coverage since then have
been overwrought considering the size of the loss and its actual
impact, said a JPMorgan executive who wasn’t authorized to speak
on internal views. Quarterly profit is projected at $3.7
billion, according to the average estimate of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  ‘Everyone Screams’  “If they had made $4 billion no one would have noticed,
but everyone screams when they lose $2 billion,” said Jay Dweck, who led a modeling group for sales and trading at New
York-based Morgan Stanley until last year. The alarm “is
irrational and unfair,” he said.  Richard Marin, former head of asset management at Bear
Stearns Cos., which was taken over by JPMorgan during the 2008
financial crisis, would recommend shares of the bank to anyone
who has traded them away. “If you sold the crisis, buy the
reality,” Marin said. “Lapses do occur.”  Losses come and go every few years, said Philip Keevil, a
former head of European mergers at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Advocates of
tightening the so-called Volcker rule, which restricts banks’
proprietary trading, want “to use it for their own ends” and
have been “piling on,” said Keevil, now a partner at Compass
Advisers Group LLC in New York.  ‘Small Beer’  “I don’t think it’s a big issue,” BlackRock Inc. Chairman
 Larry Fink  told CNBC June 7.  Steven Rattner , co-founder of
private-equity firm Quadrangle Group LLC, mentioned his
friendship with Dimon in a May 14 Financial Times commentary
before  calling  the JPMorgan loss “small beer.”  The bank still has support of analysts including Wells
Fargo & Co.’s Matthew Burnell, who affirmed his buy rating the
day of the loss announcement. A 6 percent after-hours drop in
the stock price was “somewhat outsized,” he said then. In the
days that followed, Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of
Canada labeled the loss a “blemish,” with RBC and Goldman
Sachs repeating their buy ratings in reports that both called
JPMorgan “down but not out.”  “Anyone can run the numbers and see,” Citigroup said in a
May 21 report, calling JPMorgan an “absolute buy.” Estimates
of losses more than doubling are “getting a bit carried away.”  Regulatory Reaction  Investors and bankers, including Dimon, have speculated
that the loss may hurt efforts to soften restrictions imposed by
the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and its Volcker rule, which were
designed to head off a repeat of the financial crisis. Dimon
will face the Senate Banking Committee on June 13 and the House
Financial Services Committee June 19.  “Everyone needs to take a half step back,” said  Rob Nichols , CEO of the Financial Services Forum, a Washington-based
lobbying organization. “Since the crisis there have been
numerous reforms that have improved the safety, the soundness,
that make our system more safe and more secure.”  His group, led by Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein,
includes heads of 20 global financial firms. Dimon is a  member .  The market’s punishment of JPMorgan’s stock is effective
and an “argument for less regulation,” Hester Peirce, a
researcher at the  Mercatus Center  at  George Mason University ,
 wrote  last month. Mercatus is funded by billionaire  Charles
Koch , according to the Koch Family  website .  Losses Happen  “There is no law that says you can’t lose money,” said H. Frederick Krimendahl II, chairman of New York-based real estate
investor Petrus Partners Ltd. and a former Goldman Sachs
management-committee member. “The reason that I shrug is that I
don’t think anybody got badly hurt in this” except JPMorgan.  Schwarzman, New York-based Blackstone’s chief, said losses
can’t be prevented “by legislation, regulation, supervision or
other forms of planning.” JPMorgan’s loss amounts to about 7
percent of its pretax earnings expected this year, he said.  Dismissiveness is dangerous, according to  Simon Johnson , a
former International Monetary Fund chief economist who teaches
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  “Complacency was at the heart of the problems that almost
brought down the system,” he said. “No one considered that
there was a serious problem.”  Analysts who’ve expressed concern include  Chris Wheeler  at
Mediobanca SpA, the Milan-based investment bank, which
downgraded JPMorgan to neutral on June 6. Bank analysts tend to
be positive about the industry because they work in it, said
Wheeler, who co-wrote the Mediobanca report.  “I’m not screaming from the hilltops that  Jamie Dimon  has
major problems,” he said. “But, in this particular case,
something went very badly wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 