-- Wen Stimulus Helps Mid-Size Stocks, Semple Says: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-06-10T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/wen-stimulus-helps-mid-size-stocks-semple-says-china-overnight.html
Chinese small and mid-size stocks
are attractive as monetary authorities may cut  interest rates 
once or twice more this year, said David Semple, who oversees
$35 billion in assets at Van Eck Associates Corp.  Semple, whose Van Eck  Emerging Markets  Fund has beaten 95
percent of its peers in 2012, said he likes  China Minsheng
Banking Corp. (1988) , Greatview Aseptic Packaging Co.,  Stella
International Holdings Ltd. (1836)  and  Sitoy Group Holdings Ltd. (1023)  The
fund has returned 7.6 percent this year, compared with a 1
percent loss for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   “Larger Chinese companies are fully valued whereas small
and mid-caps have outperformed this year, which is where we’ve
found our sweet spot,” Semple, Van Eck’s director for
international equity, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s office
in  New York  on June 8. “If you want solid domestic demand with
growth at a reasonable price, then you end up going down the cap
curve.”  Chinese stocks traded in New York rose for the first time
in six weeks after the People’s Bank of China on June 7 reduced
benchmark interest rates for the first time since 2008 to
bolster growth in the world’s second-largest economy. The
 Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
companies in the U.S. advanced 3.5 percent last week, snapping a
five-week slump that sent the gauge to an eight-month low on
June 4. The index dipped 0.4 percent to 90.27 on June 8.  Data this past weekend showed China’s consumer prices rose
the least in two years in May and industrial output and retail
sales trailed estimates, adding pressure for more stimulus.  Dangdang, Huaneng Jump  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the country’s biggest
Internet book seller also known as Dangdang, gained the most
among companies in the Bloomberg gauge last week. Its 21 percent
surge was the biggest weekly advance since Jan. 20.  Huaneng
Power International Inc. (902)  surged 13 percent in the week, the most
since November 2008, as falling power-station coal prices in
China help cut costs at the nation’s largest electricity
producer.  The iShares FTSE  China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest U.S.-
listed China exchange-traded fund, retreated 2.8 percent to
$32.81 on June 8, trimming its gain last week to 0.4 percent.  The Bloomberg-China measure  traded  at 17 times estimated
profit, after reaching 16.2 on June 4, the lowest level since
March 2009. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies traded in  Hong Kong  has slid 5.9 percent this year,
sending average valuations of the gauge to 7.3 times estimated
earnings, the lowest level since October 2011, and below the 9.8
average multiple for companies in the MSCI Emerging Market
Index.  More Rate Cuts  Policy makers will cut interest rates once or “maybe”
twice more this year and further lower bank reserve
requirements, Semple said.  “They’re much less worried about inflation as there
doesn’t look to be too many pressures in the system right now,”
he said.  The central bank also gave lenders additional leeway to set
the amounts they pay on deposits and charge for loans, according
to its June 7 statement. The rate cut follows three reductions
to bank reserve-requirement ratios since November.  Inflation slowed to 3 percent in May from 3.4 percent in
April and from 5.5 percent in May 2011, the government reported
June 9. Production increased 9.6 percent, lower than a projected
9.8 percent gain, and retail sales climbed 13.8 percent. May
trade data released yesterday showed exports and import growth
topped estimates.  Policy makers will take further easing steps in the third
quarter,  Zhu Haibin , chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in Hong Kong, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
on June 8.  Index Advance  The broader Hang Seng  Index (SHCOMP)  has added 0.4 percent this year
while the Shanghai Composite Index of mainland stocks is up 3.7
percent for the year, following a 22 percent slump in 2011.  China’s stocks are set to climb 36 percent over the next
year as valuations drop below their decade average and the
government further loosens monetary policy, according to Credit
Suisse Group AG. The Shanghai stock measure is likely to rise to
3,100 by the end of June 2013, Vincent Chan, head of China
research at Switzerland’s second-largest bank, said in an
interview at a June 7 conference in Hangzhou, China.  American depositary receipts of Beijing-based Dangdang rose
to a two-week high of $5.50 on June 8 after a three-day rally. A
five-day advance in Huaneng’s ADRs sent them to the highest
level in seven months. The ADRs, each representing 40 underlying
shares in the company, traded 0.5 percent  below  its Hong Kong
stock on June 8, from a 0.6 percent premium in the previous day.  21Vianet Group Inc. (VNET) , an Internet data center service
provider based in Beijing, slid 9.2 percent last week to a five-
month low of $9.99.  Hollysys Automation Technologies Ltd. (HOLI) , an
automation system manufacturer, lost 8 percent for the week to
$8, the lowest level this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  