-- What Traders’ Testosterone Tells Us About Markets
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2012-06-10T22:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/what-traders-testosterone-tells-us-about-markets.html
An unusual study of traders’ spit
may offer a taste of the future in how we understand what drives
markets -- and why they aren’t as stable and efficient as we
might hope.  Several years ago, two neuroscientists  undertook an
experiment  on the trading floor of a major investment bank in
London. Over eight consecutive business days, at both 11 a.m.
and 4 p.m.,  John Coates  and Joe Herbert took samples of saliva
from the mouths of 17 traders. With these samples, taken before
and after the bulk of the day’s trading activity, they measured
the rising and falling levels of a number of steroid hormones,
including testosterone, adrenaline and cortisol.  The data revealed physiological changes not evident to the
eye. To begin with, Coates and Herbert found that when traders
did well and made money, they didn’t do it solely through
cleverness and cerebral dexterity. Guts also played a role,
although “testicles” would actually be more accurate. Traders
performed better on days in which they registered higher morning
levels of the hormone testosterone, which is mostly produced in
the testes.  This isn’t actually surprising. After all, testosterone
increases the level of hemoglobin in the blood, enabling it to
carry more oxygen.  Experiments in both animals and humans  show
that it boosts searching persistence, fearlessness and appetite
for risk, qualities that obviously help any trader exploit real
opportunities in the market. Athletes preparing for a
competition produce more testosterone, which helps bring them to
an optimal state of readiness for intense action.  Something Unexpected  The  London  experiments, though, also showed something
unexpected. Levels of the hormone cortisol -- often called the
“stress hormone,” because its levels rise in people
experiencing  severe psychological or physical stress  -- didn’t
increase when traders suffered significant losses. Rather, they
went up in direct proportion to the volatility of recent
trading. The more wildly unpredictable the record of wins and
losses, the more cortisol. In sufficient quantities, the hormone
orchestrates a response to injury or threat by shutting down
functions related to digestion and reproduction, even the immune
system.  This simple fact should have big implications for how we
think about markets. Market participants aren’t the rational
automatons of most financial theory. They are biological
organisms responding with a neural and physiological apparatus
designed millions of years ago. If what happens in markets
affects hormones, these in turn alter behavior and feed back
into the markets. As Coates argues in  a new book , our bodies may
make us hard-wired for episodes of financial boom and bust.  Biologists studying animals in the wild  have documented  a
testosterone-driven dynamic called the “winner effect.” If two
male lions or bears fight over a potential mate, the level of
testosterone in the winner skyrockets afterward, while that of
the loser plummets. This makes evolutionary sense, as the loser
needs to rest and put energy into recovery, while the winner
often faces immediate challenges from other rivals.  Ultimately, the winner effect can lead to trouble. By
boosting confidence and risk appetite, testosterone priming
makes that winner more likely to win again, and successive
winning can push testosterone to counterproductive levels.
Indeed, researchers have observed a systematic tendency for
animals to become so aggressive and overconfident after a period
of serial winning that they take stupid risks -- standing in
open ground, for example, where they can be seen and attacked by
several rivals together.  Giddy Energy  In light of these findings, it’s natural to suspect that a
good part of the giddy energy and aggressive excitement that
spills over  Wall Street  during a long  bull market  must reflect a
surge in general testosterone levels, and that basic
physiological mechanisms can drive financial bubbles. The more
markets rise, the more confident and risk-seeking traders and
investors become. The ultimate outcome is a market of people
largely convinced of their own invincibility and ready to take
irrational risks confident in the outcome being yet another
victory.  When the bubble bursts, Coates argues, another hormonal
response amplifies the effects. The mental consequences of long-
term exposure to heightened cortisol levels include anxiety,
selective recall of disturbing memories and a sense of danger
lurking everywhere. The market becomes irrationally risk-averse.
The  bear market  persists as the financial industry, or much of
it, becomes, in Coates’s term, a “clinical population” unable
to make the most of the opportunities it finds.  Now at the University of Cambridge, Coates turned to
neuroscience after working for a decade at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG, where he ran a trading desk. Even
before his experiments, his practical experience during the dot-
com bubble convinced him that the markets were running on
something deeper than dispassionate reason. Normally “a sober
and prudent lot,” as he recalls, “traders were becoming by
small steps euphoric and delusional.” They were “overconfident
in their risk-taking, placing bets of ever-increasing size and
ever worsening risk-reward trade-offs.” As much as traders and
investors try to remain rational, will power is no match for
steroids that work their effects in every single cell in the
body.  It’s rather amazing that biology has until very recently
been more or less excluded from economics. That error has deep
roots in the rationalist tendency to split brain and body and
attribute behavior to thinking, even when it has much broader
origins. If the mechanisms of our bodies and brains might play a
major causal role in the rhythm of financial boom and bust, it’s
time for finance theory to become more physiological.  Coates makes a convincing case that physiology plays a
central role in driving markets, one that is generally
overlooked. This insight might well form the basis of new
investment indexes, even funds, based on widespread real-time
monitoring of the hormonal biochemistry of the investing
population.  The moment for the testosterone index may have arrived.  ( Mark Buchanan , a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.   Today’s highlights: The editors on why  boring banking  isn’t
safer and on  voter registration  in  Florida ; William D. Cohan on
 watering down  Dodd-Frank;  Albert R. Hunt  on November’s  election 
milestones;  Simon Johnson  on why the U.S. needs another
 systemic-risk watchdog ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the growing  capitalism-
democracy split ; William Pesek on  Greece’s effect  on  Asia ; Red
Jahncke on a  German exit  from the euro; Jay S. Fishman on how to
 incubate  small businesses.  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan&cle; at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  