-- Wheat Stockpiles Contracting on Drought From U.S. to Russia
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-06-11T21:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/wheat-stocks-contracting-as-drought-reaches-from-u-s-to-russia.html
Global wheat inventories are poised
to decline next year by the most since 2007 as drought curbs
production from the U.S. to  Russia , implying tightening supply
this season that may halt a three-month slump in prices.  Stockpiles on June 1, 2013, will drop 6.1 percent to 185.06
million metric tons from a year earlier, according to the
average of 19 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The most-
held options in Chicago give holders the right to buy wheat by
June 22 at an 11 percent premium to the close on June 8. Prices
may average $7.25 a bushel in the third quarter, 15 percent more
than now,  Societe Generale  SA said today in a report.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  updates its global crop
estimates tomorrow, the first such release with both electronic
and floor trading open on the  Chicago  Board of Trade. Traders
may face changes driven by below-average Midwest rainfall and
worsening growing conditions for winter wheat across the U.S.
Yields are shrinking in Russia and growers in Argentina and
Australia may plant less because of dry soil, according to
reports from farm managers and agricultural researchers.  “Supplies are not as ample as they were expected to be
just three or four months ago,” Christopher Narayanan, the head
of agricultural research for Societe Generale in  New York , said
by phone. “We have multiple crop problems, and that should
support prices.”  Stocks, Bonds  Wheat has fallen 13 percent since reaching an eight-month
high of $7.22 on May 21 and is down 3.4 percent since the start
of January. The July contract rose 0.25 cent today to $6.305 in
Chicago. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities
declined 9.7 percent this year, and the MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities rose 0.1 percent. Treasuries returned 1.7
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The most-held wheat option provides the right to buy the
grain for July delivery at $7 a bushel by June 22 on the CBOT,
followed by the option that allows the purchase of the December-
delivery contract at $8, which expires on Nov. 23, exchange data
show.  The U.S., the biggest exporter, will produce 2.212 billion
bushels (60.2 million tons) this year, the average in a
Bloomberg survey of 18 analysts shows. While that’s less than
the USDA’s estimate last month of 2.245 billion bushels, it’s
still higher than the drought-damaged harvest of 2011, which
came in at 1.999 billion bushels. Dry weather from  Texas  to  Ohio 
may prompt the USDA to cut its winter-wheat forecast to 1.644
billion bushels, from 1.694 billion, the survey showed.  Conditions Deteriorate  Winter-wheat  conditions  in the U.S. fell for five straight
weeks through June 3, while parts of  Kansas  and Oklahoma got as
little as 5 percent of normal rainfall in the past month as of
June 8, government data show.  A dry spell in May that followed a damaging freeze in
February may cut production in the 27-nation European Union to
130.5 million tons from 137.4 million last year and 132 million
estimated by the USDA last month, said William Tierney, the
chief economist at AgResource Co., a research company in
Chicago. Output in the 12 nations of the former  Soviet Union  may
drop to 90 million tons from 114 million in 2011, he said.  “We are paring down the supplies in the major exporting
regions where the world depends on sourcing wheat to meet food
consumption,” Tierney said. “We are tightening up rather
significantly the comfortable surplus the world has had the last
few years.”  Economy’s Woes  Reduced inventories may not lead to higher prices if
 Europe ’s widening debt crisis and a faltering global economy
further erode demand for grain used in food and animal feed.
Inventories of 185.06 million tons would still 47 percent higher
than in the 2007-08 season, when prices reached a record $13.495
in February 2008.  “The global supply of wheat is more than enough to meet
both food and animal-feed demand this year,” said Chad Henderson, a market analyst for Prime Agricultural Consultants
Inc. in Brookfield,  Wisconsin . “Recent rains in eastern Europe
and parts of Russia have stabilized yields, and we still have
three months to get rains in  Australia  and Argentina.”  An index of 55 global  food  prices fell the most in more
than two years in May as the cost of dairy products, grain and
sugar declined, the  United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture
Organization  said June 7.  Kansas Yields  Crop yields in Kansas, the largest U.S. grower of winter
wheat, may be better than expected because plants matured early
enough to avoid damage from the dry weather in May, according to
Kansas Wheat, an industry group. An analysis of crops collected
during the first week of the harvest showed farmers getting 40
bushels an acre on average, up from 35 bushels last year,
spokesman Bill Spiegel said June 6 from  Manhattan , Kansas.  While the USDA on May 10 forecast a 1.1 percent drop in
global demand to 686.47 million tons in the year that began June
1, consumption during that period will still be the second-
highest ever and exceed production by 1.3 percent.  Except for  Canada , where output will jump 5.1 percent, the
world’s biggest exporters will harvest smaller crops this year,
AgResource’s Tierney said. Production by the seven top exporters
will tumble 8.9 percent to 342 million tons from a year earlier,
he said. The USDA on May 10 forecast output at 355.9 million.  Russian Drought  Russia’s yields may shrink 30 percent from 2011 because of
a drought, farm manager Valinor Public Ltd. said June 7. In
 Argentina  and Australia, farmers are planting less because of
dry soil, AgResource estimates.  For the biggest exporters, inventories before the start of
the 2013 harvest will be equal to 15 percent of what they ship
overseas and consume domestically, down from an estimated 19
percent on June 1 this year and the lowest since 2008, Tierney
said.  The USDA also is expected to reduce its forecasts for
domestic corn and soybean inventories in tomorrow’s report, as
demand prospects improve, according to the Bloomberg surveys.  Corn  reserves  on Sept. 1, before the harvest, may fall 27
percent to 822 million bushels from a year earlier and down from
851 million forecast by the USDA on May 10. That would be the
smallest since 1996. Soybean inventories may decline to a two-
year low.  Corn prices plunged 12 percent in May and soybeans dropped
11 percent, the biggest monthly declines since September, on
speculation that warm, dry weather in April and May boosted
planting and early crop development, increasing the potential
for a record corn crop and a 4.9 percent increase in soybean
production.  Weather Outlook  About a quarter of the corn and soybeans in the Midwest and
a third of the crops in the southern Mississippi River Valley
may be stressed by above-normal temperatures and dry weather the
next two weeks, the Commodity Weather Group LLC said June 7.
About 53 percent of the  Midwest  was abnormally dry or in
moderate drought on June 5, up from 42 percent a week earlier
and 1 percent last year, government data show.  “It’s much more critical for the corn crop to get
widespread rains the next two weeks to prevent irreversible
yield losses,” said  Jim Gerlach , the president of A/C Trading
Inc. in Fowler,  Indiana . “Trading will be focused on U.S.
weather until there is a widespread rain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  