-- Yankees Rally Behind Martin’s Home Runs to Win 5-4, Sweep Mets
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-06-11T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-10/yankees-defeat-mets-5-4-to-sweep-three-game-interleague-series.html
Russell Martin  hit the winning home
run in the ninth inning as the Yankees secured their first home
sweep over the  New York  Mets since 2003.  Martin hit a leadoff homer against Mets reliever Jon Rauch
in the ninth inning at Yankee Stadium yesterday for his third
career game-ending home run. It was the second time this season
that the Yankees won with a home run.  “I’m starting to feel pretty comfortable at the plate,”
said Martin, who had two homers. “I made a couple of
adjustments and hopefully I’ll just keep doing what I’ve been
doing.”  Martin has hit four home runs in his past six Major League
Baseball games, giving him a batting average of .342 over his
past 12 games and lifting his season average to .216.  The Yankees rallied for their seventh win in nine games
this month and 13th in 17 starts. The Yankees, who won the first
two games against the Mets 9-1 and 4-2, improve to 34-25, while
the Mets drop to 32-29 with their third straight loss and sixth
defeat in seven games.  Against the Mets, the Yankees have won seven of the past
eight games and 17 of the past 24 matchups between the teams.  The Yankees recorded their 18th comeback win of the season
after falling 3-0 behind in the second inning.  The Mets took the lead on a run-scoring single by Vinny Rottino and made it 3-0 when Rottino stole second, Omar Quintanilla walked and both scored on a Jordany Valdespin double
off Yankees starter  Andy Pettitte .  The score remained 3-0 until the bottom of the seventh,
when Martin hit a two-run homer.  The Yankees then tied it and moved ahead in the eighth
inning.  Derek Jeter  scored on Mark Teixeira’s single before
Curtis Granderson put the Yankees ahead 4-3 on an Alex Rodriguez
single.  In the ninth,  Lucas Duda  and  Ike Davis  hit consecutive
doubles off  Rafael Soriano  to tie it before Martin secured the
win with his second home run of the game.  Boone Logan , the last of four Yankees relievers, got the
win, while Rauch (3-6) took the loss.  Pettitte gave up three runs on five hits and struck out
eight in six innings, while Mets starter Jonathon Niese
surrendered two runs on seven hits in seven innings while
striking out six.  The Yankees and Mets can now help each other in the
standings. The Mets tomorrow begin a three-game series in
 Florida  against the Tampa Bay Rays, who lead the second-place
Yankees by half a game in the American League East division.  The Yankees today open a three-game series in Atlanta
against the Braves, who are in second place in the National
League East, 2 1/2 games ahead of the third-place Mets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  