-- Australia to Subject First Boat to New ‘Hardline’ Refugee Policy
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-07-20T07:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/australia-to-subject-first-boat-to-new-hardline-refugee-policy.html
A boat with 81 passengers that was
stopped today off northwest Australia will be the first to face
the government’s new policy of refusing entry to refugees and
sending them to neighboring  Papua New Guinea .  The people will initially be sent to Christmas Island, an
Australian territory used as an immigration detention center,
Immigration Minister Tony Burke said today at a news conference
broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  “Any asylum seeker who arrives in Australia by boat will
have no chance of being resettled in Australia,” Prime Minister
 Kevin Rudd  told reporters in Brisbane yesterday, standing
alongside Papua New Guinea’s Prime Minister Peter O’Neill. “If
they’re found to be genuine refugees they’ll be resettled in
Papua New Guinea.”  Rudd has made tackling the number of asylum seekers
journeying to Australia by boat a priority before elections that
must be held by the end of November. Five people have drowned
since July 12 in incidents at sea between northwest Australia
and  Indonesia , and the issue has eroded support for the ruling
 Labor Party  amid pledges by opposition leader  Tony Abbott  to
“stop the boats.”  “This is a radical plan with far-reaching implications,”
Sharon Pickering, a professor at the School of Political and
Social Inquiry at  Monash University , said by phone. “It’s hard
to see how this policy will be able to work within the spirit of
the convention,” she said, referring to the 1951 United Nations
refugee convention.  Successive Australian governments have struggled with boat
arrivals from  Southeast Asia  since the late 1970s, when then-Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser granted entry to  more than 2,000
refugees  from the aftermath of the  Vietnam War .  Newspaper Ads  Australian newspapers today carried full-page
advertisements by the government promoting Rudd’s policy with
the words “if you come here by boat without a visa, you won’t
be settled in  Australia .” A  website  set up to explain the plan
warned people not to risk their lives or money paying smugglers.  Two boats were intercepted yesterday off Australia, one
before the news conference to announce the refugee policy and
another during the event, Burke said.  Almost all of the passengers on the boat that was stopped
today, made up of single men and families, are originally from
 Iran , he said.  “I understand this is a very hardline decision,” Rudd
said yesterday. “Australians are people with hard heads but
also kind and compassionate hearts.” The agreement with Papua
New Guinea did not put a limit on the number of people who could
be sent there, he said.  Detention Centers  Then-Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  last year reopened
processing centers in Papua New Guinea and Nauru, a return to
former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s policy of holding applicants
in offshore processing camps or remote onshore detention
centers.  Australia will expand a detention center on Papua New
Guinea’s Manus Island about fivefold to house about 3,000 asylum
seekers, Burke told reporters in Brisbane yesterday. Children
will be removed from the center and the facilities will be
improved, he said.  Rudd said the resettlement plan would be neutral for
Australia’s budget, with a statement on the costs of the policy
to be put forward later.  Opinion Polls  Rudd is seeking to build a platform ahead of the election,
announcing changes to policies put in place by Gillard which
proved unpopular with voters, including a pricing system for
carbon. Since he ousted Gillard last month in a party-room vote,
Rudd’s Labor has erased a deficit in opinion polls to Abbott’s
Liberal-National coalition.  More than 800 people, many from war-torn countries that
have used Indonesia as a stepping stone to seek asylum, have
died en route to the country since October 2009, according to
the Department of Immigration.  Four people drowned and 144 survivors were plucked from the
water after a boat carrying suspected asylum seekers capsized
while it was being escorted to  Christmas Island , Australia’s
Customs and Border Protection Service said in a July 16
statement. An infant boy drowned July 12 in a separate incident
north of Christmas Island.  “No one should view this as being a choice between
compassion and pragmatism,” Burke said today. “There is
nothing compassionate about children drowning at sea.”  ‘Light on Detail’         The opposition welcomed the readiness of Papua New Guinea
to assist Australia with asylum seekers, Abbott told reporters
in Brisbane yesterday.  “But we just don’t trust this prime minister and this
government to make it work because they haven’t been able to
make anything else work when it comes to stopping the boats,”
Abbott said, describing Rudd’s announcement as “very light on
detail.”  Conditions at the Manus Island center, which now houses 250
people, are “harsh” and don’t meet international standards,
the UN High Commissioner for Refugees said in a  July 12 report .  Canvas tents housed as many as six men each, and detainees
reported poor hygiene and access to medical care, according to
the report. Uncertainty about the status of refugee applications
was “contributing to pervasive frustration and despondency,”
spokesman Adrian Edwards said in a  statement  on the
commissioner’s website.  Manus is a tropical island about 140 miles (225 kilometers)
south of the equator off New Guinea’s northeast coast. It was
the site of a major  U.S. naval and air base  in the closing
months of World War II and was  visited  by anthropologist
Margaret Mead in researching her book “Growing up in New
Guinea.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  