-- Bangladesh Pushed by U.S. to Protect Factory Workers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2013-07-20T04:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/bangladesh-pushed-by-u-s-to-protect-factory-workers.html
The Obama administration is pressing
 Bangladesh  to do more to strengthen worker-safety standards as a
condition for restoring U.S. trade preferences that were
suspended after a deadly garment factory collapse in April.  The U.S. government yesterday made public the steps that
the Bangladeshi government needs to take to win restoration of
benefits on $34.7 million in goods from the Asian nation.
Measures called for by the U.S. include increasing the number of
labor, fire and building inspectors and creating hotlines for
workers to anonymously report safety and rights violations.  “The administration is making this action plan public as a
means to reinforce and support the efforts of all international
stakeholders to promote improved worker rights and worker safety
in Bangladesh,” according to a joint statement from the State
and Labor departments and the U.S. Trade Representative.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration announced June 27
that it would halt the trade benefits, citing concerns that
Bangladesh failed to adequately safeguard worker rights. The
U.S. acted in response to the April 24 collapse of the Rana
Plaza factory, the worst industrial accident in Bangladeshi
history, which killed more than 1,110 workers and prompted
increased scrutiny of the country’s labor conditions.  The measures recommended by the U.S. were submitted to
Bangladesh at the time the preferences were halted. The steps
also include creation of a database on garment factories with
the results of fire, labor and building inspections, including
violations reported and sanctions levied. The U.S. also called
for improved training for inspectors in the Asian country.  Apparel Excluded  Bangladesh participates in a U.S. program known as the
Generalized System of Preferences, which allows zero or reduced
tariffs on some products imported from  developing countries . The
trade preferences exclude imports of Bangladesh’s apparel, which
the U.S. Commerce Department said represented 91 percent of the
$4.9 billion in U.S. imports from the nation last year.  Seventeen North American retailers, including  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , announced a five-year plan last week aimed
at improving factory safety in Bangladesh. The pact requires
factories to be inspected within a year and results to be made
public, and it includes setting up a $42 million fund to help
its implementation, according to a July 10 statement from the
companies.  The Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety said it will set
safety standards by October and refuse to buy from factories
deemed unsafe. The U.S. retailers’ pact has been faulted by
worker-rights groups as falling short of a comparable agreement
reached by mostly European retailers, which obligates companies
to ensure their factories have the capital to make necessary
repairs.  Under the North American pact, individual retailers can
voluntarily pledge capital beyond the $42 million so factories
can make safety renovations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shepard in Washington at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  