-- Boeing 787 Probe Said to Focus on Pinched Beacon Wire
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-07-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/boeing-787-probe-said-to-focus-on-pinched-beacon-wire.html
Investigators are examining whether
a wire smashed under a beacon battery cover caused a short-circuit that triggered a July 12 fire on a  Boeing Co. (BA)  787
Dreamliner in  London , a person familiar with the probe said.  U.K. and U.S. investigators are focused on the crushed
wiring in the plane’s emergency locator transmitter while
continuing to look into a number of possible causes for the
blaze, said the person, who isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  U.S. regulators on July 19 said they will order Dreamliner
operators to check for wire damage after a beacon was linked to
the fire on a parked Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise 787.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  is working with
Chicago-based Boeing to develop instructions for the
inspections, which will be made mandatory through an
airworthiness directive to be issued “in the coming days,” the
agency said in a July 19 statement. Operators will be told to
ensure wire routing is proper, seek “any signs of wire damage
or pinching” and search for heating or moisture within the
devices’ battery compartment, the FAA said.  The move falls short of the U.K. Air Accidents
Investigation Branch’s recommendation that the FAA direct
airlines to disable the  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  beacons on
all 787s. The FAA said it will communicate its plan to aviation
safety regulators in other countries this weekend.  FAA’s Lead  The directive would apply only to the six 787s flown by
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  because no other U.S. carrier
operates the jet. Other nations’ aviation regulators typically
follow the agency’s lead, as they did in January when the FAA
grounded the aircraft after  lithium-ion batteries  melted down in
two 787s’ power systems.  “We received the recommendation from the AAIB and are
working closely with Boeing and the FAA to ensure we take the
appropriate action,” Christen David, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based United, said by telephone prior to the FAA’s announcement.
“We have already performed visual checks on the emergency
locator transmitters with no findings.”  Reuters reported earlier that investigators were looking at
a pinched wire in the ELT.  Operators of the 68 Dreamliners in service have been
grappling with how to respond to a July 12 blaze that scorched
the composite skin of an Ethiopian Airlines’ 787, which was
parked at London’s Heathrow airport with its ground power
switched off. While the battery-powered beacons are self-contained in aluminum alloy casing and not integral to flight
operations, they are included in the jet’s minimum equipment
list, according to the FAA’s website.  Portable Beacons  Japan ’s Transport Ministry will allow removal of the
emergency beacons from Dreamliners and the use of portable
beacons in place of the Honeywell devices, Megumi Tezuka, a
spokeswoman at ANA Holdings Inc., the biggest 787 operator, said
yesterday in an e-mail.  Kyodo News  earlier reported the
ministry’s decision.  Japanese aviation law requires emergency transmitters to be
in service. An inspection of ANA’s 20-jet Dreamliner fleet
didn’t uncover any issues, Nao Gunji, a spokeswoman, said
earlier in a telephone interview.  The carrier had said that if the FAA had ordered the
removal of the components and Boeing issued a directive, the
carrier would do so once Japan’s transport ministry published a
decree.  Poland’s LOT said it has made checks and the part is
“fine.” U.K. charter carrier Thomson Airways removed the
Honeywell locators.  Investigation Continues  U.K. regulators continue to probe whether an electrical
short or other mechanism sparked the Ethiopian Airlines fire,
the AAIB said on July 18. It has determined that an emergency
locator transmitter powered by  lithium batteries  contained the
only stored energy capable of starting a blaze within the area
of heat damage.  The beacons are used to track downed aircraft and planes
operating across oceans where there is no radar coverage. They
are placed on planes for a reason, said  Robert Mann , an aviation
consultant based in  Port Washington ,  New York . “These do
provide a real function and safety net in real time.”  The FAA said July 19 that it does not require the
transmitters to be on large commercial aircraft. The equipment
can be temporarily deactivated for repairs, according to the
agency’s website.  Equipment List  The device is likewise part of a minimum equipment list
maintained by the European Aviation Safety Agency and can be
temporarily deactivated for maintenance while the aircraft
continue to fly,  Richard Taylor , a spokesman for the U.K.  Civil
Aviation Authority , said in an e-mail.  India ’s aviation safety regulator will make a decision
after Air India Ltd. -- which operates seven 787s -- receives a
directive from Boeing, Arun Mishra, director general of civil
aviation, said in an earlier phone interview.  Boeing has “provided instructions to customers giving them
the required information to meet their regulatory guidelines,”
 Marc Birtel , a Boeing spokesman said in an e-mail. “This
includes either the inspection or removal of the ELT on affected
airplanes, as dictated by local operational requirements.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  