-- Boston Red Sox Win 4-2 to Hand Yankees Third Straight MLB Loss
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-20T04:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/boston-red-sox-win-4-2-to-hand-yankees-third-straight-mlb-loss.html
Jacoby Ellsbury and Jonny Gomes hit
home runs as the American East-leading Boston  Red Sox  won 4-2 to
hand the  New York Yankees  their third straight Major League
Baseball loss.  The Red Sox (59-39) are seven games ahead of the fourth-place Yankees (51-45) in the AL East.  Ellsbury hit a solo home run in the first inning and Gomes
added a two-run homer in the second at Fenway Park in Boston.  Brett Gardner  stole third and scored on a throwing error by
Red Sox catcher  Jarrod Saltalamacchia  to give the Yankees their
first run in the fourth inning. Chris Stewart added a run-scoring double in the fifth as the Yankees pulled within 3-2.  Gomes scored on Jose Iglesias’s single in the seventh
inning.  New York’s Gardner was ejected in the top of the fifth
after he was called out on strikes on a 3-2 pitch and slammed
his helmet to the ground.  Felix Doubront (7-3) struck out five while allowing two
runs on three hits in 6 1/3 innings. Koji Uehara got his ninth
save, striking out one in the final inning.  Andy Pettitte  (7-7) gave up four runs on six hits in 6 1/3
innings for the Yankees.  Earlier yesterday, the Yankees placed shortstop  Derek Jeter 
on the disabled list with a strained quadriceps muscle, an
injury the team captain suffered in his only major league game
this season.  Jeter, 39, returned from offseason ankle surgery on July
12, only to sustain the low-grade strain of his right
quadriceps. He was placed on the 15-day disabled list
retroactive to the day of the injury, the Yankees said in a news
release.  The team promoted infielder Brent Lillibridge from the
minors, placing him on the team’s 40-man roster.  Alex Rodriguez  could return to the Yankees’ roster for the
first time this year no later than July 23. The third baseman,
who had hip surgery in January, is finishing his rehabilitation
stint this weekend at the team’s Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre
Railriders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  