-- Canada Dollar Falls on Fed View to Trail Higher-Yielding Assets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-07-20T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/canada-dollar-falls-on-fed-view-to-trail-higher-yielding-assets.html
Canada ’s dollar fell against the
majority of its most-traded peers as the  Federal Reserve  damped
speculation reduced monetary stimulus was imminent, crimping
demand for the currency versus other higher-yielding assets.  Mexico ’s peso led those that rallied against Canada’s
currency this week even as crude oil, the nation’s largest
export, reached a 16-month high and equities gained. Stephen
Poloz at his inaugural policy meeting as  Bank of Canada  governor
kept the benchmark rate at 1 percent, the 23rd in a row with no
change.  Statistics Canada  may report July 23 that May  retail
sales  rose the most since February.  “We are seeing consolidation here with the Canadian dollar
against the U.S. dollar,” Eric Viloria, senior currency
strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “To see the South African rand and the
Mexican peso do a little bit better after Bernanke’s comments,
that’s something that’s usually the case. We saw U.S. yields
move lower and when that happens that’s positive for  emerging
markets .”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, climbed 0.3 percent to C$1.0368
per U.S. dollar in Toronto, the second weekly advance. It
weakened 2.2 percent against the Mexican peso and 2 percent
versus  Sweden ’s krona. One loonie buys 96.45 U.S. cents.  Price Swings  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart reached 7 percent, the lowest
since May 16. Implied volatility, used to set option prices and
gauge the expected pace of currency swings, reached a one-year
high of 8.87 percent on June 24.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators  decreased  their
bets that the Canadian dollar will decline against the  U.S.
dollar , figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers
on a decline in the Canadian dollar compared with those on a
gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 20,043 on July 16, compared
with net shorts of 23,829 a week earlier.  Futures traders  raised bets  Mexico’s peso will strengthen
versus the U.S. dollar. Long positions that profit from an
increase in an asset were cut to almost zero the week before
after reaching a record high 151,665 in January.  Canada’s central bank has kept its  key lending rate  at 1
percent since September 2010. Poloz inserted a line in his
monetary-policy report released July 17 saying almost-record low
 interest rates  are appropriate “as long as” there is
significant economic slack in the economy, low inflation and
households continue to repair their balance sheets.  Economic Outlook  The central bank raised its economic growth forecast for
this year to 1.8 percent from an April prediction of 1.5
percent, while lowering the 2014 projection to 2.7 percent from
2.8 percent. Both figures exceed Bloomberg consensus forecasts
of 1.7 percent and 2.4 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks rallied 0.7
percent. Crude gained 2.3 percent to close at $108.43 a barrel
in New York and touched the highest level since March 1, 2012.  Western Canada Select, the benchmark for oil-sands bitumen,
 traded  at a discount of $17.50 to U.S. West Texas Intermediate
prices, up from $9.25 on June 12, the low for the year.  “The buoyance in equities and commodity markets and more
particularly the WTI crude, and looking at the lack of
outperformance of the Canadian dollar, it’s telling that the
correlations have broken down,”  Jack Spitz , Toronto-based
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada , said in a phone interview. “They have taken a backseat
to the relative performance of the U.S. dollar.”  Fed View  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’ll take a wait-and-see
stance on monetary stimulus. He said last month the purchases
may slow this year and stop in the middle of next year if
economic growth meets policy makers’ projections.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries slipped 10 basis points this
week, after declining 16 basis points in the previous five days,
the biggest back-to-back drop since the period ended Aug. 31. It
touched an almost two-year high of 2.75 percent on July 8.  “Canada underperformance comes on the back of
repositioning into  Treasuries (USGG10YR) , into U.S. equities,” Spitz said.
“We’ve seen that performance take precedence, price-action
wise, over the relative performance of a currency like Canada.”  Canadian government 10-year bonds rose, pushing yields down
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.36 percent.
The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 climbed 63 cents
to C$92.50.  The country will auction C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) of
notes due November 2015 on July 24.  Consumer Demand  Retail sales  increased 0.4 percent in May, according to the
median forecast of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
grew 0.1 percent in April, Statistics Canada said, short of
estimates for a 0.2 percent gain.  The consumer prices index rose 1.2 percent in June from a
year earlier, compared with a 0.7 percent rate in May,
Statistics Canada said yesterday. It remained below the Bank of
Canada’s 2 percent target.  “In Canada, we don’t really have much of an inflation
problem at all,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at
Bank of  Nova Scotia , said by phone from Toronto. “We have a
disinflation problem where we’ve seen inflation fall well below
the central bank’s target.”  The loonie lost 1.9 percent in the past 12 months against
nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The yen fell 23.1 percent, while the
U.S. dollar is up 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  