-- Chinese Man Detonates Homemade Bomb at Beijing Airport
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-20T13:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/chinese-man-detonates-homemade-bomb-at-beijing-airport.html
A man in a wheelchair set off a
home-made explosive at an arrival hall at Beijing International
Airport today, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  The man, identified as a Chinese national, was the only
person hurt in the explosion and is being treated for his
injuries, Xinhua said. Police are investigating the incident
that occurred at 6:24 p.m. local time Xinhua reported. It
didn’t give a motive for the man’s actions.  Photographs on Xinhua’s website showed airport and medical
staff in a smoke-filled area of the terminal. Police officers
and other workers surrounded a person on the ground and an
empty upturned wheelchair was nearby. There were no signs of
fire or damage to the surrounding area.  Beijing’s airport  said on its official microblog site that
operations weren’t disrupted.  By 8 p.m., dozens of television film crews had arrived at
the T3 building and workers were cleaning the floors and glass
panels at the arrival hall. There was no smell of smoke or
signs of damage and flights from  New York ,  Tokyo  and  Hong Kong 
had landed since the incident.  Liu Tuanjie, 24, said he saw reports of the explosion on
the Internet before he arrived at the airport. “I was little
bit terrified, but I still need to catch my flight,” he said.  The terminal 3 building at Beijing’s international airport
opened ahead of the 2008  Olympic Games  in the Chinese capital.
At the time of its opening, the terminal was the world’s
biggest building, housing 1.3 million square meters (14 million
square feet) of floor space, according to its designer, London-based architecture firm Foster & Partners.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  