-- China Removes Floor on Lending Rates as Economy Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-20T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/china-removes-floor-on-lending-rates-as-economy-slows.html
China  eliminated the lower limit on
lending rates offered by the nation’s financial institutions as
economic growth slows and Premier Li Keqiang expands the role of
markets in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The change, effective yesterday, removes a floor set at 30
percent below the current 6 percent  benchmark , giving banks
freedom to set their own lending rates. The People’s Bank of
China made the announcement on July 19.  The shift, which came as central bankers and finance
ministers from Group of 20 nations gathered in Moscow, follows
renewed calls by the International Monetary Fund for China to
boost financial sector reform to help contain risks. While the
move temporarily jolted world stocks higher, the PBOC
acknowledged that it was a limited step and said that freeing up
 deposit rates  would be more important.  “While deposit-rate liberalization is still possible, the
fact that a decision was made to just remove the lending-rate
floor suggests that more aggressive liberalization proposals
were defeated, or at least delayed,” said  Ken Peng , senior
economist at BNP Paribas SA in Beijing. “This decision shows
that some reform is being done, but may actually reduce the
chances for deposit-rate liberalization in the near term.”  China is not yet ready for freeing up deposit rates, the
“most risky” part of interest-rate liberalization, the PBOC
said, adding that the nation lacks a deposit insurance system.  Raising the deposit-rate ceiling would improve household
incomes and reduce the attractiveness of non-traditional wealth
management products while threatening banks’ profit margins,
according to Peng of BNP Paribas.  No Consensus  There’s no consensus on deposit-rate reform, Song Guoqing,
an academic adviser to the central bank, said yesterday.  “Some people said the timing is right, others said it’s
not, there is no unified view,” Song told reporters at a
conference in Beijing. “Had there been a unified view, it would
have been announced” on July 19, he said.  The lending-rate change will probably weigh on shares of
Chinese lenders this week, according to Macquarie Capital
Securities Ltd.  “Sentiment wise this is definitely bad for China banks, as
many will comment that banks’ net interest margin will be under
further pressure, Victor Wang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Macquarie, said in an e-mail. ‘‘In theory, large banks with
higher exposure to large corporate lending have more to lose and
are therefore more exposed.’’  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  and Bank of Communications
Co. are the two ‘‘worst positioned,’’ Wang said.  Exacerbate Concerns  Chinese banks’ valuations are already close to their lowest
on record as a cash crunch in the interbank market exacerbated
investors’ concerns that earnings growth will stall and defaults
may surge as the economy slows.  The MSCI World Index of stocks reversed losses immediately
after the PBOC’s announcement. It gained 0.2 percent as of
market close in New York on July 19. The Bloomberg China-US
Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S.
climbed less than 0.1 percent for a second weekly rally.  China’s economy grew 7.5 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, down from 7.7 percent in the first three months,
and is at risk of the weakest expansion in 23 years. Song
estimates growth may slow to 7.4 percent in the July-September
period, the third straight quarterly deceleration.  The central bank’s move showed the leadership may be ‘‘a
bit worried about growth,” Song said, adding that he was giving
his personal view. While the government may fine-tune policies,
there won’t be a big stimulus, he said.  ‘Full Confidence’  The government has “full confidence” it will reach its
2013 growth target of 7.5 percent,  Zhu Guangyao , a vice finance
minister, said yesterday. The PBOC’s action was “just one
element” of a master plan of the new Chinese leadership
encompassing monetary, market and fiscal policies, Zhu said in
an interview at the G-20 meeting in Moscow.  The removal of the lending floor builds on the leadership’s
pledges to expand an overhaul of interest rates, tagged by the
World Bank and the IMF as a priority in financial reform.  In its annual  assessment  of China’s economy published last
week, the IMF said China must move to use interest rates as the
primary tool of monetary policy and allow banks to price
deposits and loans according to market principles.  China’s one-year benchmark lending rate has been held at 6
percent since the last reduction in July 2012. The PBOC last
year allowed banks to offer rates as much as 10 percent above
the benchmark set for deposits and let financial institutions
offer loans at a discount of 30 percent below the benchmark
lending rate.  Not Same  “This is not the same as a rate cut and the impact will be
very limited,” said Helen Qiao, chief Greater China economist
at Morgan Stanley in Hong Kong. “Liquidity conditions are very
tight -- we weren’t seeing companies getting funding at anything
close to the lower band before this change, so we’re unlikely to
see this will induce an immediate drop in rates. Lending costs
come down only when funding becomes abundant.”  In the first quarter, only about 11 percent of loans were
priced below the lending benchmark, central bank data show.  China will maintain the floor for mortgage rates because
the government will continue to curb speculative home buying and
investment, the PBOC said. It will remove the cap on lending
rates offered by rural cooperatives and also scrap controls on
bill discount rates.  PBOC Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan , who was reappointed in March
after a record tenure of 10 years in the job, said in November
that changes to the interest-rate system should be made at a
“moderate” pace.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  