-- Costa Shipwreck Manslaughter Pleas Lead to Jail Terms for Five
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-07-20T14:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/costa-shipwreck-manslaughter-pleas-lead-to-jail-terms-for-five.html
An Italian judge accepted plea
bargains for five defendants in the Costa Concordia case,
convicting them of manslaughter and negligence, according to a
representative for victims of last year’s shipwreck.  Roberto Ferrarini, head of Costa Crociere SpA’s crisis unit
at the time, and Manrico Giampedroni, the ship’s hotel director,
were sentenced to two years and 10 months and to two years and
six months, respectively, according to Massimiliano Gabrielli,
who represents members of a group called Justice for the
Concordia and attended the sentencing today. No fines were
imposed on the defendants, he said by phone.  Calls to the court in the Tuscan town of Grosseto outside
normal office hours weren’t answered. The ship rammed into rocks
off  Italy ’s western coast on Jan. 13, 2012, killing 32 people.
Costa Crociere, based in Genoa, Italy, is a unit of Miami-based
 Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the world’s biggest cruise operator.  Captain Francesco Schettino is being tried for manslaughter
and abandoning the ship while many of the 4,200 passengers and
crew were still on board. His request for a plea bargain was
rejected by prosecutors, La Repubblica reported on July 17. The
Costa Concordia still lies on its side near the island of Giglio
as a removal plan has fallen behind schedule.  “Today’s sentences would be fair for illegal building, not
for multiple homicide,” Gabrielli said, adding that Justice for
the Concordia will appeal the decision.     “With their technical
expertise, they had to be aware. The prosecutors’ goal is having
Schettino as a scapegoat.”  The ship’s first officer, Ciro Ambrosio, was sentenced to
one year and 11 months. Helmsman Jacob Rusli Bin received one
year and eight months, while Third Officer Silvia Coronica
received one year and six months, according to Gabrielli.  Costa Crociere agreed in April to pay a 1 million-euro
($1.31 million) fine for violations of the Italian
administrative responsibility law. Costa Crociere, which remains
a plaintiff in the trial, settled claims with more than 80
percent of passengers as of May 14. The plea bargains don’t put
the innocence of its staff in doubt, the company said in a
statement that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  