-- Detroit Seeks July 23 Initial Hearing in Bankruptcy Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   D u n n
-- 2013-07-20T00:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/detroit-seeks-july-23-initial-hearing-in-bankruptcy-case.html
Detroit , which filed the biggest
U.S. municipal bankruptcy yesterday, asked a federal judge to
set an initial hearing in the case as soon as July 23 to confirm
that the city is entitled to routine protections from creditors.  Under the protection of Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code , most lawsuits against a city are temporarily barred so the
municipality can reorganize its operations and debt without
distraction.  Detroit filed for bankruptcy yesterday after decades of
decline left it too poor to pay billions of dollars owed
bondholders, retired cops and current city workers. The city
faces about $18 billion of debt it must restructure.  The city asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven W. Rhodes to
confirm those and other rights routinely granted in bankruptcy.
The request comes after a state court judge ordered Governor
 Rick Snyder  to withdraw the bankruptcy petition, claiming the
case violates  Michigan ’s constitution.  Circuit Court Judge Rosemarie E. Aquilina is overseeing
cases brought by current and retired city workers who asked for
a temporary restraining order to keep the city out of
bankruptcy. Detroit’s Chapter 9 petition was filed minutes
before the judge was able to rule.  Kenneth Klee, the bankruptcy lawyer who is leading the
bankruptcy restructuring of Jefferson County,  Alabama , said a
state judge can’t force Detroit out of federal bankruptcy, even
if Snyder agrees to try to withdraw.  A federal judge would have to agree to dismiss the case,
said Klee, of Klee Tuchin Bogdanoff & Stern LLP in  Los Angeles .  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  