-- Detroit Bankruptcy Judge Rhodes Is Ponzi-Law Scholar
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/detroit-bankruptcy-judge-rhodes-is-ponzi-law-scholar.html
Detroit ’s bankruptcy, the largest
municipal collapse in U.S. history, will be overseen by a 28-year veteran of the bench and writer on Ponzi-scheme law who’s
taking on the biggest case of his career.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven W. Rhodes, 64, was assigned
the case by Alice Batchelder, the chief judge for the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in Cincinnati, following recommendations by lower-court judges in Detroit, according to a court order filed
yesterday.  “It is our unanimous and very strong belief that Honorable
Steven W. Rhodes is the bankruptcy judge best qualified to
preside over the city of Detroit Chapter 9 case,” Phillip Shefferly, chief of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in Detroit, wrote
in a letter filed with the court.  Detroit filed the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy on July
18, a move the city’s emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, said was the
only way to deal with a debt load of $18 billion. The city’s bid
for a turnaround is now in the judge’s hands.  Rhodes, a graduate of the  University of Michigan Law
School , probably welcomes the challenge of overseeing the case,
said  Sheryl Toby , a bankruptcy attorney at the Dykema law firm
in  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan. He is set to retire at the end of
the year and take on senior status as a judge, she said.  “He stepped up for it clearly, and he didn’t have to,”
she said.  A call to the judge’s office in Detroit after regular
business hours seeking comment on his appointment wasn’t
immediately returned.  Madoff Trustee  Rhodes is a co-author of “The Ponzi Book: A Legal Resource
for Unraveling Ponzi Schemes,” published by LexisNexis. The
book’s  website  quotes  Irving Picard , the bankruptcy trustee for
 Bernard Madoff ’s defunct investment firm, as calling it “one-stop shopping for the facts needed to understand the complex
fall-out from a collapsed Ponzi scheme.”  Rhodes handled the bankruptcy reorganization of Southfield,
Michigan-based auto-parts maker Collins & Aikman Corp. In 2007,
he approved a liquidation plan for the maker of auto interiors.  He also served as chief judge of the bankruptcy court in
Detroit when it changed its rules at the end of 2008 in an
effort to make it a more attractive venue for carmakers to
reorganize. Still, General Motors and Chrysler filed for
bankruptcy in New York the following year.  While under court protection, Detroit can stop paying some
debts, is temporarily shielded from lawsuits and can ask the
judge to cancel contracts, including union agreements.  Creditor Negotiations  The filing came after months of negotiations between Orr,
who was picked by Republican Governor  Rick Snyder , and creditors
that included pension funds for retired city workers. The funds
said they were “dismayed” by the filing and are still battling
to get the bankruptcy rescinded.  Rhodes is a skilled manager of the courtroom who keeps
cases moving and won’t be swayed by public opinion that will
come with such a high-profile case, said Judy Calton, an
bankruptcy partner at Honigman Miller Schwartz & Cohn LLP in
Detroit.  “He’s sterling at managing everything and moving the
case,” she said. “He’ll keep people’s feet to the fire, and
he’ll rule.”  The case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  