-- DRAFT!!!
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-07-20T14:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/draft-.html
Switzerland  will join the global
campaign to clamp down on  tax evasion  by sharing bank clients’
data if other major financial centers agree to reciprocate,
Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said.  “In the discussions about automatically sharing bank data,
I insisted on full reciprocity,” Widmer-Schlumpf said today in
Moscow, where she attended a meeting of Group of 20 finance
ministers and central bankers. “The U.S. has quite different
views. There remains some work to be done.”  Banking secrecy has been enshrined in the nation’s law
since 1934, helping Switzerland become the world’s most
important offshore financial hub, according to a 2012 report by
Boston Consulting Group Inc. It has faced pressure from the
European Union to join a system of automatic exchange of bank-account data.  Widmer-Schlumpf last month took the unprecedented step of
announcing that Switzerland may go along with the global
initiative if the standard was recognized and implemented by
other major financial centers.  At least 12 Swiss banks, including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , are under investigation in the U.S.
for allegedly helping wealthy Americans cheat on their taxes.  Widmer-Schlumpf said in June the government would hold
detailed discussions in the coming months on the topic of
automatic data exchange, a step proposed by a group of academics
and government officials. A change in Swiss law would have to be
approved in a referendum.  Swiss Rejection  The Swiss parliament last month rejected a bill that would
have given banks special permission to hand over information to
the U.S.  Switzerland has also been at odds with the 28-nation bloc
over the preferential tax treatment given to multinationals, and
had until the end of June to offer a solution or face reprisals.
The Swiss government said in May it would stop differentiating
between foreign and domestic income. Instead, in a bid to remain
attractive to corporations such as Procter & Gamble Co. and
Trafigura Beheer BV, it will introduce new tax exemptions and
cantonal governments may cut tax rates on profits.  More details
on the Swiss plan are due later this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Moscow at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  