-- Helen Thomas, Pioneering White House Correspondent, Dies at 92
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-07-21T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/helen-thomas-pioneering-white-house-correspondent-dies-at-92.html
Helen Thomas, the pioneering female
journalist who questioned 10 U.S. presidents from her front-row
seat at White House press conferences, has died. She was 92.  The Gridiron Club, of which Thomas was a member, said she
died yesterday at her apartment in Washington, where she lived
for more than six decades. No cause of death was given, though
the club said she had been ill for a long time.  As White House correspondent for  United Press
International , where she worked for 57 years, then as a
columnist for Hearst Newspapers, Thomas covered presidents from
John F. Kennedy to  Barack Obama  as they confronted the Cuban
Missile Crisis, wars in Vietnam and Iraq, the Watergate scandal,
oil shortages, the nuclear arms race and economic crises.  She was the first woman elected president of the  White
House Correspondents Association  and the first female to join
the Gridiron Club, a fraternity for inside-the-Beltway
journalists. She was also the first woman to cover the
presidency, the correspondents group said.  Her work ethic was legendary. “She’s always the first one
in the White House and the last one to leave,” Frances Lewine,
who covered six presidents for the Associated Press, said in a
September 2007 interview. Lewine  died  in January 2008.  Thomas, whose parents were Lebanese, also drew notice for
her critical views of  Israel . “Well, thank you for the
Hezbollah view,” White House spokesman Tony Snow once retorted
after Thomas suggested the U.S. should stop an Israeli military
operation in southern Lebanon.  Unpopular Stand  In  videotaped comments  in May 2010, following a White House
ceremony marking Jewish Heritage Month, Thomas said Israelis
should “get the hell out of  Palestine ” and return “home” to
“ Poland ,  Germany , and America and everywhere else.” Within
days she apologized and retired from Hearst.  In 2012, Palestinian leaders gave Thomas an award for her
career. According to an account in the Washington Report on
Middle East Affairs, a magazine critical of U.S. foreign policy
in the region, Thomas told supporters at the Virginia home of
Maen Areikat, the top Palestinian envoy to the U.S., that she
accepted the honor “on behalf of brave supporters of
Palestinians who have taken an unpopular stand despite the
personal and professional costs.”  Her long career put Thomas on the scene as history was
written.  She sat at the head table at Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev’s “We will bury you” speech at the  National Press
Club  in 1959, having joined other women in a successful battle
for one-day access to what was then a male bastion.  Fought for Access  She was at Georgetown Hospital in 1960 when John F. Kennedy Jr. was born, 17 days after his father won the presidency. She
traveled with President Richard Nixon on his 1972 trip to  China .
In 1974, she stood in the Oval Office as President Gerald Ford
announced on national television that he was pardoning Nixon for
any crimes committed during the Watergate scandal.  At UPI, Thomas fought for access and openness and
chronicled day-to-day White House news with the terse language
of the wire-service reporter.  “The presidency awed me, but presidents do not,” Thomas
wrote in “Dateline: White House,” her 1975  memoir . “Perhaps I
have always expected too much of them, but I believe that when
they reach the highest office in the land, they should live up
to the greatest honor that can come to a person in American
political life. Some have stood the test better than others.”  Bush Showdown  Thomas quit UPI and became a syndicated columnist at the
start of George W. Bush’s presidency in 2001, and her dislike of
the 43rd president -- particularly his decision to invade  Iraq 
in 2003 -- became evident in her writing and questions. Once
guaranteed a question at presidential news conferences, she was
rarely called on by Bush.  “Her loathing for Bush is palpable,” Jack Shafer, media
critic for Slate.com,  wrote  in March 2003, citing the “snarky
speeches she delivers in lieu of asking questions.”  On one of her few opportunities to question Bush, in 2006,
Thomas asserted that he had wanted to invade Iraq and overthrow
Saddam Hussein from the time he took office.  “Your decision to invade Iraq has caused the deaths of
thousands of Americans and Iraqis, wounds of Americans and
Iraqis for a lifetime,” she told the president. “Every reason
given, publicly at least, has turned out not to be true. My
question is, why did you really want to go to war?”  To Task  As Bush countered that the terror attacks of Sept. 11,
2001, had recast the threat posed by “safe havens” such as
Iraq, Thomas interrupted: “They didn’t do anything to you or to
our country.”  Thomas took her profession to task in a 2006  book . After
Sept. 11, reporters “were afraid to challenge the government,
were afraid to be seen as un-American, unpatriotic, and as a
consequence, they really let the country down,” she said in an
August 2007 interview on CNN.  In February 2009, Obama became the 10th president to call
on Thomas at a  news conference . He brought cupcakes to the
briefing room to mark her 89th birthday on Aug. 4, 2009. She
said she told the president that her birthday wish was for
“world peace and a real health-care reform bill.”  “What made Helen the ‘Dean of the White House Press Corps’
was not just the length of her tenure, but her fierce belief
that our democracy works best when we ask tough questions and
hold our leaders to account,” President Obama said in an e-mailed statement.  UPI Years  Thomas was born on Aug. 4, 1920, in Winchester,  Kentucky ,
and grew up in  Detroit , the seventh of nine children in the
Lebanese-American family. Thomas recalled her mother, Mary, as
“strong-willed” with “a burning sense of justice.”  At Detroit’s Eastern High School, Thomas got hooked on the
school newspaper. After graduating from  Wayne State University 
in 1942, she moved to the nation’s capital and landed a job as
copy girl at the Washington Daily News. She moved to UPI -- then
called United Press -- to write radio news copy.  Her gender proved a short-term benefit -- she was hired in
part because so many men were being drafted -- but she became
outraged at what she said was “the priority given to men in the
news business.”  Thomas covered the Justice Department and other federal
agencies before joining UPI’s White House team on Jan. 20, 1961,
Kennedy’s first day as president. Back then, about 1,000 U.S.
newspapers subscribed to UPI, the top competitor to AP.  First Ladies  At first, Thomas, Lewine and other female White House
reporters were relegated mainly to covering first ladies and
activities outside the Oval Office.  “Guys didn’t want to cover the social events,” Lewine
recalled. “But we made hard news at those social events, and
then everybody wanted to cover them.”  Thomas, as UPI’s correspondent at a 1963 Kennedy  press
conference , was responsible for deciding when to end the event.
She chose to do so after Kennedy had tiptoed his way through a
difficult answer on the threat posed by Cuba.  “Mr. President, thank you,” Thomas said, uttering what
are usually the final words at such an event.  This time, Kennedy added, “Thank you, Helen.”  President Lyndon Johnson’s tense relationship with the
press included what came to be known as “walkie-talkie” press
conferences, during which reporters would fall over each other
trailing the president and his dogs on brisk walks around the
South Lawn.  “Often he spoke in a whisper to bedevil us for questioning
him,” Thomas recalled. She kept flat shoes at her desk as a way
to compete with her male competitors during such events.  Watergate Regrets  One Sunday afternoon, Thomas was alone in the White House
press room when Nixon popped in for a look at the empty bottles,
wadded paper and other trash of a press room and told her,
“This is a disgrace.”  Soon after, the Nixon administration began work on a new
press center -- nicer, but lacking the location and freedom of
movement reporters had enjoyed. “We began to see the renovation
of our offices as a subtle part of the Nixon war against the
press,” Thomas wrote.  Thomas both regretted, and excused, that she played only a
bit part in what may have been the biggest presidential story in
U.S. history -- the Nixon White House’s link to the  Watergate
break-in .  The stars of that story, Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein of
The  Washington  Post, weren’t part of the White House press
corps. White House reporters “were remiss, but we operated
under many more wraps,” Thomas wrote.  Syndicated Columnist  Thomas stayed on as UPI passed through a series of
ownership changes in the 1990s and lost readership and clout.
She quit in 2000 when Sun Myung Moon’s Unification Church bought
the news service. She joined  Hearst  as a syndicated columnist.  In 1971, Thomas married Douglas Cornell, who had been her
friendly rival for years as the White House correspondent for
the Associated Press. First Lady Pat Nixon announced their
engagement at Cornell’s retirement party.  Thomas said she got notes from friends saying she had
encouraged them by finding a spouse at 51.  Cornell, who had been widowed in 1966, died in 1982 at 75.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  