-- Fed Re-examines 2003 Approval of Banks’ Commodities Trading
-- B y   B o b   I v r y   a n d   D a v i d   S c h e e r
-- 2013-07-20T03:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/fed-reviewing-2003-decision-on-banks-commodities-activities.html
The  Federal Reserve , facing
lawmakers’ criticism of Wall Street’s trading in physical
commodities, said it’s reexamining a decade-old policy governing
the firms’ activities.  The Fed “regularly monitors the commodity activities of
supervised firms and is reviewing the 2003 determination that
certain commodity activities are complementary to financial
activities and thus permissible for bank holding companies,”
 Barbara Hagenbaugh , a spokeswoman for the central bank, said
today in a statement. She declined to elaborate.  U.S. senators will hold a hearing next week as lawmakers
explore whether financial firms such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  should continue to be allowed to store metal,
operate mines, broker electricity and ship oil. Lawmakers have
expressed concern that banks’ involvement in both the supply of
materials and related financial products, such as derivatives,
may lead to manipulation.  In a landmark  decision  in 2003, the Fed let  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
continue making transactions in physical commodities after
finding them complementary to the firm’s trading and investing
in financial instruments. The New York-based bank otherwise
would have been forced to divest its Phibro energy-trading unit
to comply with a federal rule banning banks from dealing
directly in materials and fuel.  Falling Revenue  The subsidiary, once known as Philipp Brothers, was part of
the Salomon Brothers investment bank acquired by Travelers Cos.
in 1997. Travelers merged with Citigroup in 1998. While
Citigroup agreed to sell Phibro to  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  in
2009, other Wall Street banks also have been allowed to make
trades in physical commodities.  Commodities revenue at the 10 largest banks amounted to
about $6 billion last year, down from $8 billion in 2011, amid
low volatility and client flows, according to a Feb. 15 report
from London-based analytics company Coalition. Increasing
concerns that regulation and capital rules are stiffening also
led banks to re-examine commodity strategies, it said.  Spokesmen for New York-based Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  declined to comment on the Fed’s
review.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Ivry in New York at 
 bivry@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  