-- G-20 Seeks Stronger Economy With Bid to Control Spillover
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-07-20T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/g-20-pledges-to-be-mindful-of-monetary-easing-spillover.html
Global finance chiefs sought to
reinforce the global economic recovery by promising “carefully
calibrated” policies that won’t spook markets.  The Group of 20 nations heeded calls from emerging-market
countries to guard against shockwaves when U.S. growth is secure
enough for the Federal Reserve to cut back on its bond buying,
according to a statement issued in Moscow yesterday. They also
repeated that nations should move quickly toward market-based
exchange rates and avoid competitive devaluation.  “Future changes to monetary policy settings will continue
to be carefully calibrated and clearly communicated,” according
to the statement issued after finance ministers and central
bankers concluded two days of talks. “We reiterate that excess
volatility of financial flows and disorderly movements in
exchange rates have adverse implications for economic and
financial stability.”  The G-20 also backed the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development’s plan for revamping global tax
codes. The endorsement gives a boost to the Paris-based OECD’s
efforts to prevent the largest companies from using complicated
ownership structures and transfer pricing to avoid paying taxes
where they do most of their business.  “The tax agreement stands out, but the devil is in the
details,” said Marc Chandler, chief currency strategist at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. “Exactly how it will
be implemented is not clear.”  ‘Policy Mix’  Speculation about developed economies scaling back their
unprecedented monetary easing has roiled emerging-market
currencies and bonds since G-20 finance chiefs last met in
April. From South Korea to South Africa, anticipation that the
Fed would soon pare back its quantitative easing efforts drew
calls for coordination so as not to squelch global demand.  “We really focused on growth and employment and what is
the policy mix that will help improve growth encourage and
create jobs,” International Monetary Fund Managing Director
Christine Lagarde said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “Central banks share that concern.”  The improving U.S. economy means a shift in Fed policy is
coming and it will need to take place “in the proper manner,”
Indonesian Finance Minister Chatib Basri said.  “The question is about the pace,” he said in an
interview. “Of course we have to wait for what will happen in
the next couple of months.”  Stimulus Program  Global yields surged and equities fell after Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke signaled on June 19 the U.S. central bank may
start tapering its monthly stimulus program this year. U.S. 10-year yields, which climbed 36 basis points in June, have pared
increases over the past two weeks as Bernanke eased those
concerns in recent appearances.  “We’ve all learned something from this,” Bank of Canada
Governor Stephen Poloz said. A certain amount of reaction “is
inevitable. You have to be mentally prepared for that and
continue to emphasize that message and be very clear.”  A U.S. Treasury Department official said the G-20
recognized that financial-market volatility has returned to
normal. The official acknowledged a lot of interest in U.S.
monetary and fiscal policy, while reiterating  Washington ’s call
to do more to help the euro zone emerge from recession.  ‘Sufficiently Flexible’  According to the final statement, G-20 nations will offer
“credible, ambitious” fiscal strategies when leaders meet in
St. Petersburg in September. Those strategies must be
“sufficiently flexible to take into account near-term economic
conditions” while also making debt levels more sustainable,
according to the statement.  Germany  had sought tougher language that would require
medium-term budget targets and push the U.S. and  Japan  to follow
through on previous commitments, said an official from a G-20
country. Germany in turn came under fire from the U.S. and South
Korea, who pressed Europe to prioritize growth over debt-cutting
measures.  The G-20 hasn’t yet decided if these targets will be
binding, a second official said. Leaders will use the September
summit to decide how to proceed on the fiscal strategies, said
the official, who declined to be identified because the talks
aren’t public.  The G-20 acknowledged that global risks aren’t confined to
Europe, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told
reporters after the meeting.  “The global risks are widespread, and no longer, as in
former years, only focused on the euro zone, and this view is
also shared by all my colleagues,” he said.  Emerging Markets  The G-20 said in its final statement that the U.S. and
Japanese economies are strengthening, while growth slows in
 emerging markets  and the euro area remains mired in recession.  Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said “understanding
is deepening on BOJ’s qualitative and quantitative easing.”
Monetary easing is steadily achieving its goal of boosting the
economy, he told reporters.  The G-20 promised that countries will aim their policies to
prevent damage across borders.  “Monetary policy should be directed toward domestic price
stability and continue to support economic recovery according to
respective mandates of central banks,” the G-20 said in the
statement. “We will continue to monitor financial-market
conditions carefully.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Moscow at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Moscow at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  