-- G-20 Nations ‘Fully Endorse’ OECD Action Plan on Tax Evasion
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-07-20T15:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/g-20-nations-fully-endorse-oecd-action-plan-on-tax-evasion-1-.html
Group of 20 nations “fully endorse
the ambitious and comprehensive” plan presented by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, according
to a statement published in Moscow today.  “Ensuring that all taxpayers pay their fair share of taxes
is a high priority in the context of fiscal sustainability,
promoting growth and the needs of  developing countries  to build
capacity for financing development,” the G-20 said after a two-day meeting of finance chiefs.  Backing by the G-20, which says it  accounts  for almost 90
percent of the global economy, boosts the Paris-based OECD’s
efforts to prevent the largest companies from using complicated
ownership structures and  transfer pricing  to avoid paying taxes
where they do most of their business. Tax avoidance and
“aggressive tax planning” have to be tackled, the G-20 said in
the statement.  Strategies used at U.S. companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have been targeted in legislative
hearings as governments look to improved tax collection to fill
state coffers. Low tax rates paid by large multinational
companies means smaller businesses and individuals are left with
a disproportionately larger burden, OECD Secretary-General  Angel
Gurria  told reporters yesterday.  ‘Justice, Fairness’  “It’s a matter of justice and fairness that multinational
companies pay their fair contribution” to national budgets,
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters
yesterday in Moscow. Without “fair burden sharing, in the end
we will destroy even a global, open economy.”  The OECD published its 40-page  report  as deficit-laden
governments attempt to increase revenue collected from
profitable enterprises. It follows hearings in the U.S. and U.K.
that revealed how companies have avoided billions in taxes by
attributing profits to mailbox subsidiaries in places like
Bermuda and the  Cayman Islands .  The OECD plan, which was also developed by the German, U.K.
and French finance ministries and backed by G-20 president
Russia, calls for rules to make it harder to shift profits by
assigning intellectual property, such as  patent rights , to
offshore units.  ‘Major Step’  The plan is a “major step toward addressing tax avoidance
by multinational firms in the global economy and represents a
concerted effort to raise standards around the world,” U.S.
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said in a statement. “We must
address the persistent issue of ‘stateless income,’ which
undermines confidence in our tax system at all levels.”  Under current law, such offshore subsidiaries can take
credit for profits arising from patents developed in countries
like the U.S. and U.K. -- generally with cash the parent
companies provided.  Mountain View , California-based Google has avoided as much
as $2 billion in worldwide income taxes annually by attributing
profits to a subsidiary in Bermuda that holds the rights to its
intellectual property for sales outside the U.S.,  Bloomberg News 
reported in December.  G-20 finance chiefs will recommend that the group’s leaders
summit approve the plan in September, according to Russian
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov.  “It’s a solid plan, which generally everyone approved,”
he told reporters at the closing G-20 press conference. “It’s
important because it will allow for improved transparency in the
activity of large, multinational companies, which as Mr. Gurria
noted today, have double non-taxation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Moscow at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  