-- G-20 Nations Vow Flexibility on Debt as Strategies Are Submitted
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-07-20T17:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/g-20-nations-vow-flexibility-on-debt-as-strategies-are-submitted.html
Group of 20 countries pledged to be
flexible in reining in deficits to protect growth as they craft
fiscal plans before a leaders’ summit in  St. Petersburg .  Officials meeting in Moscow this week pledged to implement
fiscal strategies that will be flexible “to support economic
growth and job creation,” according a statement issued after
the two-day summit. Leaders will decide at the September summit
in Russia’s second-biggest city whether those strategies, which
have already been submitted, will be binding, an official from a
G-20 country said on condition of not being identified because
the talks weren’t public.  Divisions among the world’s richest nations have deepened
in recent months over the pace of budget cutting, with the
debate turning on whether austerity measures exacerbate
slowdowns or help end them by boosting investor confidence.
Global finance chiefs clashed over the issue at a meeting in May
near  London , where U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew pressed
European policy makers to intensify efforts to revive their
economies by reconsidering the pace of budget cuts and seeking
ways to unfreeze credit markets.  Germany, along with  Canada  and the U.K., is seeking tougher
language that would require medium-term budget targets and push
the U.S. and  Japan  to follow through on previous commitments,
the official said today. Germany in turn came under fire from
the U.S. and  South Korea , who pressed  Europe  to prioritize
growth over debt-cutting measures.  The EU said in a planning document for the Moscow meeting
that the “absence of an agreement on a credible medium-term
fiscal consolidation plan in the U.S. continues to pose a
downside risk to the global recovery.”  The U.S. “should make progress in addressing the medium-and long-term fiscal challenges it is facing as well as deal
with the debt-ceiling issue,” according to the EU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  