-- Germany’s Schaeuble Acknowledges Growth Outweighs Deficit Cuts
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-07-20T17:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/germany-s-schaeuble-acknowledges-growth-outweighs-deficit-cuts.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that economic growth should take priority over
deficit reduction for now.  A gathering of G-20 finance chiefs that ended in Moscow
today sent “an important signal, namely that we all agree that
the most important task is to strengthen growth and create
jobs,” Schaeuble told reporters after the meeting. “Global
growth is moderate and the recovery is fragile.”  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, who spoke alongside
Schaeuble at the briefing, said the picture of the world economy
has “clouded over” and the euro region only managed to
stabilize recently after a protracted economic downturn. Any
improvement this year will be gradual, he said.  Germany  came under fire from countries including the U.S.
and  South Korea , who pressed Europe to prioritize growth over
cutting debt. The finance ministers and central bank governors
today laid the ground for G-20 leaders to decide on fiscal
strategies when they meet in  St. Petersburg  in September. Those
must be “sufficiently flexible to take into account near-term
economic conditions” while also making debt levels more
sustainable, the G-20 said in a statement published today.  Germany had sought agreement on tougher language today that
would require medium-term budget targets, said an official from
a G-20 country.  G-20 leaders will discuss country-specific targets for the
time after 2016 in St. Petersburg, though the group has yet to
decide if these would be binding, said a second official who
asked not to be named because the talks aren’t public.  ‘Concrete Figures’  “The concrete figures will only be published at the
summit, this is for the heads of state and government to do,”
Schaeuble said of the debt targets. A 2012 G-20 agreement to
draw up country-specific goals “remains important.”  Schaeuble said “healthy, sustainable public finances” are
a necessary ingredient for jobs growth in  Europe .  Japan  must
complement the current fiscal and monetary policy expansion
through “structural reforms and a credible consolidation
strategy” while the U.S. needs “a medium and long-term
consolidation strategy” in addition to the short-term measures
already taken, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Moscow at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  