-- IMF Should Ask U.S. to Review Argentina Case: Lagarde
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   R y a n   C h i l c o t e
-- 2013-07-20T15:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/imf-should-ask-u-s-to-review-argentina-case-lagarde.html
A U.S. court ruling against
 Argentina  in a decade-old legal battle over its defaulted debt
could have “detrimental consequences” for global financial
stability, said  Christine Lagarde , managing director of the
 International Monetary Fund .  Lagarde said in Moscow today that she’ll recommend that the
IMF’s board ask the U.S. Supreme Court to review a lower court
ruling ordering Argentina to pay investors who refused to
exchange bonds after its 2001 default on $95 billion of debt.  The friend-of-the-court brief to the high court wouldn’t be
aimed at helping Argentina, whom the IMF censured in February
for providing inaccurate inflation data, Lagarde said after a
meeting of Group of 20 finance chiefs in the Russian capital. It
would rather serve to warn of how the ruling could bolster the
power of minority bondholders in future debt restructurings, she
said.  “We’re not supporting one party against the other,”
Lagarde said. “We’re simply alerting the court to the
detrimental consequence that the finding would have on our
ability to discharge our mandate, which is intended to maintain
financial stability in the world.”  Argentina, a G-20 member, claims that a federal appeals
court in  New York  was wrong when it ruled in October that
investors in restructured Argentine debt can’t be paid unless
holders of the nation’s defaulted bonds, led by billionaire  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management Corp. and its NML Capital Ltd. unit,
are also paid. Last month it asked the U.S. Supreme Court to
review lower court rulings.  Complex Case  Lagarde declined to discuss details of the Argentine case,
which she described as complex, except to say that it’s in the
interest of creditors as a group to reach agreement with debtors
in a manner that ensures debt sustainability and fairness among
creditors.  “Our concern is that the lower court’s decision would
undermine the ability of the debtors and creditors to reach an
agreement,” she said. “In that respect it could be a threat to
financial stability.”  Argentina’s Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino declined to
comment yesterday on media reports about the IMF’s intention to
file the brief, saying the government would wait to respond
until the IMF’s board reaches a decision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Goodman in Moscow at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Chilcote in Moscow at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  