-- Jimenez Leads Tiger Woods by a Shot at British Open Golf
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-20T13:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/jimenez-leads-tiger-woods-by-a-shot-at-british-open-golf.html
Tiger Woods is among four golfers
trailing leader Miguel Angel Jimenez of Spain by one shot
heading into today’s third round of the British Open.  Woods and fellow American Dustin Johnson,  England ’s Lee Westwood and  Sweden ’s Henrik Stenson all are at 2 under. Woods
birdied the 18th hole to finish with an even-par 71 yesterday;
Westwood tied for the day’s lowest round of 68; Stenson finished
with 70, and Dustin Johnson shot 72.  “Just continue plodding along,” Woods told reporters who
asked what he had to do over the weekend. “We’re not going to
get a lot of opportunities out there, but when I have, I’ve been
able to capitalize. Hopefully I can continue doing that.”  Jimenez, 49, shot an even-par 71 in the second round and is
3 under for the tournament at Muirfield in Gullane,  Scotland . He
trailed Zach Johnson and Angel Cabrera after his round, then
moved into the lead when the two faltered.  Zach Johnson of the U.S., and Cabrera, of Argentina, are
among four golfers at 1 under.  “When you are there, you feel the pressure because you are
on top of the leaderboard,” said Jimenez, who has two top-10
finishes in 20 previous Open appearances. “You need to feel
that pressure, to feel intense, to feel competitive.”  Jimenez tees off at 3:20 p.m. local time (10:20 a.m. New
York) with Stenson, 10 minutes after Woods and Westwood.  Zach Johnson, who led at 5-under after the first round,
dropped three shots in his first eight holes yesterday. After
three birdies got him back to 5 under after 13 holes, he made
two bogeys and a double-bogey to finish with a 75.  “It was a grind from the first shot to my last 3-, 4-footer, whatever it was, on 18,” he told reporters. “Just
trying to pick the right club, trying to pick the right target,
with the right shot was very difficult.”  Cabrera was 4-under before making three bogeys over the
final five holes. He finished with a 72.  After hot and windy conditions made the fairways and greens
hard and fast in the first two rounds, today’s cooler forecast
calls for a high temperature of 20 degrees Celsius (68
Fahrenheit), according to the U.K. Met Office.  American Phil Mickelson birdied his second hole today to
get back to even par for the championship, while South African
Richard Sterne, playing in the day’s first group, shot the
round’s low score so far of 3-under 68.  Among other early finishers, defending champion Ernie Els
of South Africa and former major winners Keegan Bradley and Todd
Hamilton of the U.S. all shot 70.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  