-- Kuroda Signals G-20 Confidence in Easing Drive Before Election
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-07-20T16:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/kuroda-signals-g-20-confidence-in-easing-drive-before-election.html
Bank of Japan  Governor  Haruhiko Kuroda  signaled confidence among Group of 20 finance chiefs in
the monetary easing he championed as Japan prepares for a
national election tomorrow.  “Understanding is deepening for the BOJ’s qualitative and
quantitative easing,” Kuroda said today in Moscow after a two-day meeting of G-20 finance ministers and central bankers.
“While it takes time to achieve the 2 percent inflation target,
monetary easing is steadily achieving” its goal of boosting the
economy.  Japan is ready to help offset weakness in the global
economy, Finance Minister Taro Aso said yesterday as the G-20
discussed the potential effects faced by emerging economies if
the U.S. Federal Reserve scales back its stimulus. The comments
from Japanese officials also signal support for Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe, forecast to win an upper house election tomorrow.  “This is a rare occasion for  Japan  to be able to proudly
talk about its economy after decades of stagnation at an
international meeting,” said Naoki Iizuka, an economist at
Citigroup Inc. in  Tokyo . Japanese officials “probably want to
help Abe’s election by emphasizing their success in reviving the
economy.”  The G-20 said in a communique today that “there are signs
of strengthening activity in the U.S. and Japan” while the
global economy remains too weak.  Improved Sentiment  The stimulus program dubbed Abenomics has buoyed the
economy since Abe took office in December by weakening the yen,
raising corporate profits and improving  sentiment  with monetary
stimulus and 10.3 trillion yen ($102 billion) spending package.  The  International Monetary Fund  this month raised its 2013
economic forecast for Japan to 2 percent from 1.6 percent in
April, while reducing global-growth projections.  Abe is set to win control of both houses of parliament at
the election, the Nikkei newspaper reported July 17. A victory
would give his Liberal Democratic Party-led coalition the
strongest grip on power since 2007.  A focal point of the post-election would be whether Abe is
able to raise a  sales tax  in April 2014. Aso said today he wants
to increase the levy as planned, while Koichi Hamada, Abe’s
adviser for reflationary policy, this week said the increase
threatens to roil the economy amid a recovery.  Kuroda yesterday renewed a pledge to continue the central
bank’s “powerful easing” to achieve the 2 percent inflation
target while he said it’s natural for the Fed to start to slow
asset purchases amid a solid recovery.  The governor has held a steady course since the central
bank doubled its monthly bond purchases to more than 7 trillion
yen in April after Abe urged it to take steps to beat 15 years
of deflation.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 1.5 percent yesterday,
the biggest drop since June 20, paring its gains to 40 percent
this year, the fastest pace among major global stock indexes
tracked by  Bloomberg News . The yen closed at 100.65 per dollar
this week, weakening 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  