-- Nascar Bans Overhead Cable Camera Systems After Cars Tripped
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-07-20T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/nascar-bans-overhead-cable-camera-systems-after-cars-tripped.html
Nascar banned the use of overhead
cable camera systems to broadcast races after a loose cable
suspended over the track snapped, injuring fans and damaging
cars at the Coca-Cola 600 at  Charlotte  Motor Speedway.  The cars, including that of race leader Kyle Busch, were
damaged when they ran over the Fox News Network camera cable,
forcing officials to issue a red flag after 126 laps that
interrupted the race for 30 minutes on May 26. Ten fans were
injured in the stands when the nylon cable broke.  Nascar said the ban would be in place until investigation
of the incident is completed.  “The safety of our competitors and our fans remains
Nascar’s number one priority, and until total evaluation and
analysis have been completed, usage of this particular
technology enhancement, and any similar enhancements, has been
suspended,” Nascar said yesterday in a statement.  The 20th Century Fox Television crew used the CATCAM system
without incident at the Daytona 500 and the Sprint All-Star race
at Charlotte.  ESPN Inc., which will televise the remainder of the Nascar
Sprint Cup series this season, had planned to use the Batcam
system for next weekend’s Brickyard 400 and the Aug. 11 road-course race at Watkins Glen. The system is used only for
motorsports and comes from a different vendor than the one Fox
used at Charlotte, the  Walt Disney Co (DIS) .-owned network said on its
website.  “We have an excellent working relationship with Nascar and
totally understand their position,” Rich Feinberg, ESPN vice
president of motorsports production, said in a statement. “We
look forward to beginning our Nascar Sprint Cup schedule at
Indianapolis and televising 17 great weeks of racing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  