-- Netanyahu Says Talks Renewal Is in Israel’s Strategic Interest
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-07-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/netanyahu-says-talks-renewal-is-in-israel-s-strategic-interest.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said the deal to renew peace talks with the
Palestinians brokered by U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  was
of “vital strategic interest” to his country.  “I view the resumption of the diplomatic process at this
time as a vital strategic interest of the State of  Israel ,”
Netanyahu said yesterday by text message in his first comments
on the agreement announced Friday. “It is important in and of
itself in order to try and bring about the conclusion of the
conflict between us and the Palestinians, and it is important in
light of the strategic challenges that are before us, mainly
from Iran and  Syria .”  While the agreement is “still in the process of being
formalized,” Kerry said July 19, the two sides will seek to set
a meeting in  Washington  within the next week or so to revive
negotiations that broke off in September 2010.  Kerry made the announcement in Amman, Jordan, after
returning from a meeting in the West Bank city of Ramallah with
chief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat and Palestinian
President  Mahmoud Abbas .  Kerry declined to provide details of the agreement, and
gave no indication that either the Israelis or the Palestinians
had budged from core positions. Speculation about its terms is
“conjecture” because “the people who know the facts are not
talking about them,” he said.  Palestinian Prisoners  Netanyahu hasn’t agreed to Palestinian demands to suspend
construction in West Bank settlements or declare that the final
settlement on borders will be based on Israel’s pre-1967 lines,
according to Israeli Minister of International Relations Yuval Steinitz. The Palestinians have committed to at least nine
months of negotiation, during which they will not undertake
punitive diplomatic actions against Israel in the international
arena, he said in an interview on Israel Radio.  Steinitz said his government had agreed as part of the deal
to free a number of long-serving “heavyweight” Palestinian
security prisoners who had committed serious offenses.  Deputy Defense Minister  Danny Danon , a member of
Netanyahu’s own Likud party, said he hopes the government has
learned “from previous mistakes regarding the release of
prisoners with blood on their hands. These murderers must not be
released as an ’act of good will’ or as a prize for returning to
the negotiating table.”  Political Cost  Getting cabinet approval for the prisoner releases “will
be very difficult for Netanyahu, especially given that the
families of victims of terror attacks will strongly object and
also mount a legal challenge,” said  Gerald Steinberg , political
science professor at Bar Ilan University outside  Tel Aviv . “At
the end of the day he may get approval, but it will cost him
politically,” Steinberg said in a phone interview.  Hani al-Masri, director of the Badael Palestine Media,
Research and Studies Center in Ramallah, said Palestinian
leaders will face challenges if they enter into talks without
Israeli concessions.  “The resumption of the peace negotiations with Israel amid
Israeli obstinacy is political suicide,” al-Masri said in an
interview.  Abbas’s spokesman, Nabil Abu Rudeina, said in a statement
that “there was progress made, but certain details still need
to be worked out.”  “If all goes well,” Rudeina said, Kerry will send
invitations “in the next few days” to start discussions in
Washington.  Kerry said talks would be attended by Erekat, Israeli
Justice Minister  Tzipi Livni  and Netanyahu’s negotiator Yitzhak Molcho.  The Right Thing  “I’m sure with all my heart that it is the right thing to
do for our future, our security, for the economy and Israel’s
values,” Livni said in a posting on Facebook Inc.’s social
networking website. “In the negotiating room, we will safeguard
the national interests and security of Israel as a Jewish and
democratic state. To this I am committed.”  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon welcomed the
announcement, and called on “both sides to show leadership,
courage, and responsibility to sustain this effort towards
achieving the two-state vision,” according to a statement
posted on the UN’s website.  The Hamas Islamist movement that rules the  Gaza Strip 
condemned the move, calling it “very dangerous.” Hamas
spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri said in an e-mailed statement the
agreement “contradicts the national consensus that the
Palestinians agreed upon.”  Hamas Opposition  “Resuming the talks only serves the occupation and gives
it a cover for its settlement expansion,” Hamas said.  Hamas, considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
U.S. and European Union, ousted Abbas’s forces from Gaza in
2007, a year after winning parliamentary elections.  Dennis Ross , who was Middle East peace envoy under
President  Bill Clinton , said the key to further progress will be
an environment in which both sides are willing to “stay at the
table and negotiate in good faith.”  “There had to be some understandings” exchanged during
months of Kerry’s shuttle diplomacy for the two sides to even
agree to move toward a resumption of talks, Ross said in a
telephone interview.  Negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians broke down
three years ago after Netanyahu declined to extend and expand a
10-month building freeze on new construction in West Bank
settlements.  Israeli Finance Minister Yair Lapid, whose Yesh Atid party
is the second-biggest faction in the government, welcomed the
agreement.  “It is incumbent on us to conduct these negotiations like
all negotiations in the  Middle East  -- with toughness, with
caution,” Lapid said in a statement posted yesterday on his
Facebook page. “Our marriage with the Palestinians is not a
happy one, but we are seeking a fair divorce.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  