-- Pound Strengthens as BOE Policy Makers Refrain From Stimulus
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-07-20T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/pound-strengthens-as-boe-policy-makers-refrain-from-stimulus.html
The pound strengthened versus the
euro for the first time in six weeks as minutes from the Bank of
England’s last meeting showed policy makers voted unanimously
against expanding stimulus that tends to debase the currency.  Sterling advanced versus the dollar for a second week after
government reports showed U.K. unemployment  claims  in June fell
at their fastest pace in three years and  retail sales  rose for a
second consecutive month, adding to evidence that the nation’s
economic recovery is gaining traction. U.K. government bonds
rose for a second week, with  two-year gilt  yields falling to the
lowest level since May.  “It’s taken the market by surprise for sure,” said Peter Kinsella, senior foreign-exchange strategist at Commerzbank AG
in London, referring to the strength of the U.K. currency.
“There was no real reason to buy the pound because it wasn’t as
if monetary conditions were going to be tightened any time soon.
You’ve seen good data this week in retail sales and as a result
the pound strengthened.”  The pound climbed 1 percent this week to $1.5259 at 5 p.m.
 London  time yesterday after rising to $1.5282, the highest since
July 4. The U.K. currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 86.12 pence
per euro.  Sterling gained 2.2 percent in the last three months, the
second-best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro
strengthened 2.8 percent and the dollar rose 2 percent.  The Bank of England’s asset-purchase  target  has remained at
375 billion pounds since July last year, when it was increased
by 50 billion pounds.  BOE Policy  The central bank introduced stimulus measures in 2009 to
boost the U.K. economy and completed its last round of bond
purchases in November. The minutes, released July 17, showed the
nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by new Governor Mark Carney voted to move away from quantitative easing in favor of a
policy on forward guidance.  A report next week may show the U.K. economy grew in the
second quarter may support the pound.  Gross domestic product 
increased 0.6 percent in the three months to June, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The pound is being supported by evidence that the
economic recovery is gaining traction,” said Eimear Daly, head
of market analysis at Monex Europe Ltd. in London. “The market
consensus is that the GDP data next week will support that view.
It’s likely the data may surprise on the upside.”  Benchmark 10-year gilt yields fell four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.28 percent after dropping 16 basis
points last week. The 1.75 percent security due in September
2022 rose 0.36, or 3.60 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to
95.62. The rate on  two-year  gilts declined four basis points to
0.32 percent after reaching 0.27 percent yesterday, the lowest
since May 9.  Gilts handed investors a 2.2 percent loss this year through
July 18, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bonds
declined 0.6 percent and Treasuries fell 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  