-- Treasuries’ 2-Week Gain Biggest in Year as Bernanke Stays Course
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-07-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/treasuries-2-week-gain-biggest-in-year-as-bernanke-stays-course.html
Treasuries posted the biggest two-week gain in almost a year as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said the central bank wouldn’t slow its monthly bond-buying program unless economic conditions warrant.  Ten-year yields  retreated from the 2013 high reached
earlier this month as Bernanke told congressional panels this
week it was “way too early to make any judgment” about whether
the biggest buyer of Treasuries will starting cutting back in
September. The U.S. will sell $99 billion in notes next week.  “The chairman went out of his way to discourage investors
from assuming Fed tapering has been largely decided, which has
calmed bond buyers down,” said  Christopher Sullivan , who
oversees $2.1 billion as chief investment officer at United
Nations Federal Credit Union in New York. “The path of easing
will clearly be data dependent, and every report will be
intensely scrutinized as people are looking for any indication
of whether we are on a path of policy adjustment or not.”  Treasury  10-year yields  fell 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 2.48 percent this week in New York,
Bloomberg Bond Trader data showed. The price of the 1.75 percent
note due in May 2023 rose 26/32, or $8.13 cents per $1,000 face
amount, to 93 20/32.  This week’s drop, combined with 16 basis-point fall in the
previous five days, was the biggest back-to-back decline since
the period ended Aug. 31. The yield touched an almost two-year
high of 2.75 percent on July 8.  ‘Less Certain’  “While tapering is on the agenda, the timing and pace are
less certain than what had been priced in just two weeks ago,”
 David Ader , head of U.S. government-bond strategy at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , wrote in a note to clients.
“Bernanke and pretty much the rest of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  have made strenuous efforts to calm the markets after
the June 19 faux pas.”  Benchmark yields jumped 17 basis points that day after
Bernanke said the central bank, the largest buyer of  U.S.
government debt , may start dialing down its unprecedented bond-buying program this year and end it entirely in mid-2014 if the
economy finally achieves sustainable growth.  Two days ago, Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee
that tighter financial conditions as a result of rising yields
over the past two months are “unwelcome.”  ‘Bullish Bias’  The Federal Open Market Committee has kept the benchmark
 interest-rate target  at a record low zero to 0.25 percent since
2008 to support the economy. Investors see a 40 percent chance
policy makers will lift the federal funds rate to 0.5 percent or
higher by December 2014, compared with 49 percent odds a week
ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Policy makers next meet
July 30-31  “We continue to see modest downside potential for yields
over the next few weeks, reinforcing our near-term bullish bias
for Treasuries,”  Millan Mulraine , a director of U.S. rates
research at TD Securities USA LLC in New York, wrote in an e-mail. “However, as evidence of a more sustained economic
rebound begins taking shape later this quarter, we expect the
slow normalization in rates to begin in earnest, taking 10-year
yields back to 2.60 percent by year-end.”  The yield on the 10-year note is forecast to end the year
at 2.62 percent, according to the weighted average forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  Reverse Course  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reversed
from a net-short position to a  net-long position  in 10-year note
futures in the week ending July 16, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data. Speculative long positions, or
bets prices will rise, outnumbered short positions by 17,735
contracts, the most since July 1. Last week, traders were net-short 47,110 contracts.  Benchmark yields have risen this year as economic
indicators signaled improvement in sectors including housing,
employment and manufacturing.  Purchases (ETSLTOTL)  of previously owned homes rose last month to a
5.25 million annualized rate, which would be the most since
November 2009, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the National Association of
Realtors’ report on July 22.  “The time frame may be pushed back to the end of the year,
as opposed to September,”  Sean Murphy , a trader in New York at
Societe Generale SA, one of the 21 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed, said of tapering. “The dependency on the data
points going forward will be significant.”  The Commerce Department will say on July 24 that sales of
 new homes  climbed in June to an annualized pace of 484,000 from
a 476,000 rate the previous month, a separate survey showed.
That would be the most since June 2008.  Treasury Auctions  The Treasury Department will auction $35 billion of two-year debt, $35 billion of five-year notes and $29 billion of
seven-year securities on consecutive days starting on July 23.  The Treasury sold $15 billion of 10-year inflation-protected securities with a yield of 0.384 percent on July 18,
the highest since July 2011 and first above zero since November
of that year. The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
2.44, versus the 2.68 average for the past 10 auctions.  “The TIPS market got ahead of itself and is still too rich
and has overpriced demand,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate
strategist in  New York  at BNP Paribas SA, a primary dealer.
“The economy hasn’t seen inflation pressure to justify TIPS
strength.”  Stable Rating  The U.S.’s Aaa credit-rating outlook was revised to stable
from negative by Moody’s Investors Service, which said the
government’s debt trajectory has steadied with budget deficits
narrowing.  Growth in the economy, “while moderate,” is proceeding
even as the U.S. has enacted tax increases and spending
reductions, the New York-based company said July 18 in a
statement. Moody’s assigned the negative outlook in August 2011,
warning that it may downgrade the U.S. for the first time on
concern fiscal discipline was eroding and the economy was
weakening.  “The rumors of fiscal demise of the U.S. were greatly
exaggerated,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $11
billion in fixed-income assets. “The U.S. fiscal position is
getting undeniably stronger.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  