-- Swedbank Rating Outlook Raised to Stable at S&P on Capital Ratio
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-07-20T09:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/swedbank-rating-outlook-raised-to-stable-at-s-p-on-capital-ratio.html
Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ’s credit-rating outlook
was raised to stable at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services,
which said the lender is better prepared than rivals to handle
increasing risks in the Swedish economy.  S&P removed its negative outlook on both the A+ long-term
rating and the A-1 short-term opinion, it said in a statement
late yesterday. S&P also gave notice of possible downgrades for
Svenska Handelsbanken AB and SBAB Bank because of concern about
those banks’ use of short-term wholesale funding. It will
conclude its review of the two institutions within 90 days.  S&P’s revised outlook for Swedbank comes less than two
months after Moody’s Investors Service boosted the bank’s long-term debt and deposit and issuer rating one step to A1, its
fifth-highest investment-grade rating. Moody’s cited reduced
risks, an improved funding profile and increased capital levels.  Swedbank has been seeking improved credit measurements to
lower its funding costs and said April 23 it expected its rating
to improve this year and be “harmonized” with that of peers.  “Swedbank’s steadily improving capitalization and
comparably balanced funding profile provide a buffer against the
effect of the increased economic risks we see for banks in
Sweden,” S&P said in yesterday’s statement. “We believe
Swedbank will maintain a relative advantage versus peers in
terms of capital and earnings, funding and liquidity.”  Since  Michael Wolf  became chief executive officer in 2009,
Swedbank has lowered risks in the Baltics, reduced the size of
its Russian unit and sold its subsidiary in Ukraine. Those
markets account for about 10 percent of net lending, compared
with 20 percent at the end of 2008, according to Moody’s. The
bank has also boosted capital buffers and is now the second-best
capitalized major lender in the European Union, after Swedish
rival Handelsbanken, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Capital Ratios  The Stockholm-based bank reported a common equity Tier 1
ratio under Basel II regulations of 18 percent at the end of
June, up from 16.7 percent six months earlier, and a ratio of
17.2 percent under Basel III rules. The bank said it needs a
ratio of about 15 percent under Basel III capital regulation.  “We are working actively for further recognition of the
extensive risk reduction Swedbank has made and expect over time
that this will continue to positively affect our ratings,” Wolf
said July 16. “Relative funding costs will continue to decline
and will be a sustainable competitive advantage for the bank.”  In the Swedish Riksbank’s latest worst-case stress test of
the country’s banks, Swedbank was the only major lender that
would post a profit in the three years of the scenario, which
included contracting economies in  Sweden , the Nordic countries
and the Baltics as well as a 20 percent slump in house prices
across the region.  ‘More Appropriate’  S&P affirmed its AA- and A-1+ ratings on  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and
the A+ and A-1 ratings on  SEB AB (SEBA)  “in view of these banks’
efforts to display a more appropriate match between their short-and long-term assets and liabilities,” S&P said. Its negative
outlooks on those ratings “reflect the possibility of
downgrades over the next two years if we see no further
improvement in these banks’ funding profiles and their primary
markets remain weak,” the credit rating company said.  S&P said Handelsbanken’s and state-owned SBAB’s “efforts
to improve the matching of assets and liabilities are behind
those of both international and domestic peers” and that it is
“increasingly concerned that government support would not fully
mitigate the risks associated with  Handelsbanken’s (SHBA)  and SBAB’s
high shares of short-term funding.”  S&P has a long-term credit rating of AA- for Handelsbanken
and a short-term rating of A-1. SBAB is rated A and A-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  