-- U.S. Conveys Monetary Policy as Clearly as Peers, Official Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-07-20T16:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/u-s-conveys-monetary-policy-as-clearly-as-peers-official-says.html
The U.S. is communicating its
monetary and fiscal policies as clearly as other major
countries, a U.S. Treasury official said after finance chiefs
from the Group of 20 nations called for greater transparency.  Central banks have ample opportunities to share their plans
during forums such as the G-20, said the official, who spoke in
Moscow today on condition of not being further identified.  After two days of talks in the Russian capital, the G-20
pledged “future changes to monetary policy settings will
continue to be carefully calibrated and clearly communicated,”
according to a  statement  released after the meeting.  Ministers devoted much of their discussion to concerns
about the impact of quantitative easing, “how countries that
issue reserve currencies will conduct that policy going forward,
and how such policies will affect emerging-market countries and
countries with developed economies,” said Russian Finance
Minister Anton Siluanov, whose country holds the G-20
presidency.  Speculation about developed economies scaling back their
unprecedented monetary easing has roiled emerging-market
currencies and bonds since G-20 finance chiefs last met in
April. From South Korea to South Africa, anticipation that the
U.S. Federal Reserve would soon pare back its quantitative
easing efforts drew concern and calls for coordination.  U.S. Growth  International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde said she alerted G-20 officials from advanced economies
to indicate future adjustments in unconventional monetary
policies, while urging emerging-market policy makers to prepare
for future bouts of market volatility.  The U.S. is pursuing policies that support growth and
create jobs, the official said, adding that expansion of the
world’s largest economy benefits other countries. The U.S.
economy will grow 2 percent this year, the World Bank said last
month.  “You look at the core economy, it’s growing in the
neighborhood of 2 percent right now, it looks like it might be
growing a little faster at the end of the year,” Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew  said in a July 18 interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook . “I think that if you look at
Europe, 2 percent is far beyond their expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Moscow at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  