-- Veterans Agency Fails Sex-Abuse Victims, Former U.S. Troops Say
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-07-20T04:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/veterans-agency-fails-sex-abuse-victims-former-u-s-troops-say.html
Marine Corps veteran Tara Johnson
says she lost faith in the U.S. Department of  Veterans Affairs 
after one of its health-care providers questioned whether she
had been sexually assaulted.  “The provider looked at me, widened his eyes and asked,
‘Well, do you really think you were raped?’” Johnson, 40, said
at a congressional hearing yesterday. “I could not bring myself
to return to him or the VA.”  Johnson, who left the Marine Corps in 2010 as a major, and
other veterans told lawmakers that the VA’s medical staff isn’t
recognizing signs of sexual abuse in former troops and hasn’t
been properly treating victims.  The House Veterans' Affairs subcommittee hearing was held
two months after the Defense Department released a survey that
found military sexual assaults had increased 35 percent in two
years. Those health-care issues and others are increasingly
shifting to the VA as more troops return from war.  The victims who testified yesterday said they believed
veterans who have been sexually abused should be treated outside
the department because of problems accessing proper care and
long waits for VA programs.  While public and political attention has focused on men in
uniform abusing women, the  military ’s confidential survey of
active-duty troops found that more victims of sexual assault and
harassment in the military are male, largely because men make up
about 85 percent of the total force.  Male Victims  Veteran Brian Lewis, a Navy petty officer third class who
said he was raped at knife point, told the subcommittee that the
VA is so “fundamentally incapable of providing care” for
sexual trauma that some male victims use VA clinics for women.  “This is not best practice. This is horrible practice,”
Lewis said during the hearing. “I also deserve to have my
manhood, in essence, respected by not having to seek treatment
in a women’s clinic.”  Rajiv Jain, the VA’s assistant deputy undersecretary for
patient care, said at the hearing that the department needs to
take a “critical look” at its services for sexual trauma
victims.  “They really present a very powerful story,” Jain said of
the veterans who described their struggles getting VA treatment.
“We also feel there are significant gaps that have been pointed
out by the panel and that we need to really look and see how
best we can meet the needs of all our veterans in a sensitive
manner.”  Congress’s Women  The VA provided more than 85,000 veterans with care related
to military sexual trauma in the year that ended Sept. 30, Jain
said in written testimony submitted to the committee. That’s an
increase of almost 11 percent from the prior year, according to
Jain’s prepared testimony.  In May, the Defense Department estimated 26,000 military
personnel may have experienced unwanted sexual contact last
year, compared with 2,949 victims identified in criminal
reports.  The same month, three military officers assigned to
programs to prevent sexual abuse were removed from their posts
after allegations of wrongdoing.  Lawmakers led by women in the House of Representatives and
Senate are demanding changes in how the Pentagon treats reports
of sexual trauma and questioning whether the VA is equipped to
care for victims.  ‘Personally Apologize’  “I want to personally apologize to all of you,” U.S.
Representative Julia Brownley, a California Democrat, said
during the hearing. “If there is trauma that takes place, then
as a veteran who has served our country we need to figure out
how to best provide and service all of you.”  Senators  Bernard Sanders , an independent from  Vermont  who
leads the Senate veterans committee, and Jon Tester, a Montana
Democrat, urged the VA in a letter last month to improve the way
it processes post-traumatic stress disorder claims from veterans
tied to sexual trauma.  Agency officials sent letters to veterans this year
advising them they could ask the department to reconsider
previously denied claims for disability payments tied to
military sex abuse.  The VA didn’t work with veterans groups on the letter or
include contact information for the offices that would handle
requests for additional review of previously denied claims,
according to the letter.  Veterans who’ve had post-traumatic stress disorder claims
tied to sexual trauma denied by the agency “may be hesitant to
trust VA to review their claims without reassurance that VA will
undertake a more comprehensive, practical and sensitive
approach,” according to the letter from Tester and Sanders.  Johnson says she suffered post-traumatic stress disorder
after she was sexually assaulted several times during her
military service -- including when she was an officer candidate.  “I don’t remember much of it,” she said during the
hearing. “But if someone comes too close to me or I feel that
someone invades my personal space or I smell a certain kind of
smell, I become so agitated and scared to the point where I
can’t function and I feel like I’m going to throw up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  