-- VF Says It Dropped Pursuit of Billabong Brand as Too Expensive
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-07-20T13:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-20/vf-says-it-dropped-pursuit-of-billabong-brand-as-too-expensive.html
VF Corp. (VFC) , the world’s largest
apparel maker, dropped its pursuit of  Billabong International
Ltd. (BBG) ’s surf brand and stores because the Australian company
wanted more than VF thought it was worth.  VF balked at Billabong’s asking price after evaluating the
finances and  operations  of the company’s namesake brand, Steven
Rendle, a VF vice president, said in an interview. VF was
interested in Billabong’s surf brand and its stores, including
one in Times Square, he said. Billabong this week accepted a
refinancing offer to reduce  debt  amid slumping sales.  “This deal just didn’t work out,” Rendle, president of
VF’s outdoor division for the Americas, said by telephone from
Greensboro,  North Carolina , where VF is based. “Our valuation
didn’t line up with what they thought was a fair price.”  VF’s outdoor division, its fastest-growing unit by sales,
is the focus of Chief Executive Officer Eric Wiseman’s push for
 acquisitions , including the $2.3 billion takeover of Timberland
in 2011.  VF had initially teamed up with  Palo Alto , California-based
Altamont  Capital Partners  to consider bidding for the Billabong
brand, which would have joined a roster that includes North Face
and Vans. Rendle declined to say how much VF was willing to pay;
he estimated the brand generates about $500 million in annual
sales.  Under the refinancing deal, a group led by Altamont could
end up with a 40 percent stake in Billabong. Altamont also will
buy the DaKine brand for A$70 million ($64.4 million), and
former Oakley Inc. chairman Scott Olivet will replace Chief
Executive Officer Launa Inman.  Kitchen Shorts  Billabong was founded by Gordon Merchant in 1973 when he
started cutting board shorts in his kitchen and selling them to
Gold Coast surf shops, according to the company’s  website .
Billabong brands include Element, Von Zipper and Tigerlily.  The company’s fortunes turned as major stores introduced
their own surf brands and the financial crisis cut  consumer
spending . The company has closed stores, fired workers and
breached terms of its debt.  Billabong and Merchant, still the largest  shareholder ,
rebuffed a takeover approach from TPG Capital worth almost A$842
million last year. TPG and another bidder later made lower
offers but walked away after viewing Billabong’s accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  