-- 7 Days Leads Consumer Bounce on Economy: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-25T18:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/7-days-leads-consumer-bounce-on-economy-outlook-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities traded in New York
climbed, led by consumer stocks, after a leading index signaled
that the nation’s economic slowdown may be abating.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 0.1 percent to 91.67 by 1:44
p.m. in New York, as budget hotel owner  7 Days Group Holdings
Ltd. (SVN)  climbed to the highest level in three months.  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  rose the most since Sept. 7 as  JPMorgan
Securities  said the “Macau gaming market will experience a
rebound in growth.”  Yingli Green Energy Holdings Co. (YGE)  gained on
a report China will boost support for some solar companies.  A gauge for  China’s economy  compiled by the New York-based
 Conference Board  climbed at the fastest pace in seven months in
August, according to a preliminary reading released yesterday.
China’s  gross domestic product  grew 7.6 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the smallest expansion in three
years, as faltering growth in the U.S. and the European debt
crisis curb demand for the nation’s exports.  “China’s economy is not nearly as bad as people have
feared,”  Jerome Booth , the London-based head of research at
Ashmore Investment Management, which oversees $63 billion of
emerging-markets assets, said by phone from London yesterday.
“In fact, China’s engineered shift from exports to a consumer-
led economy is continuing apace, and so we’re seeing some better
data.”  Economic Expansion  China’s economy will expand faster than 7 percent for
several years, Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said at an event in
Toronto hosted by the Canada China Business Council and the
Canada China Chamber of Commerce. Chen’s visit takes place as
the Canadian government reviews Beijing-based  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO) ’s $15.1
billion bid for Calgary-based oil and gas producer  Nexen Inc. (NXY)   U.S. consumer  confidence  rose more than forecast in
September to a seven-month high while housing prices advanced in
July, reports issued yesterday showed. The U.S. data also helped
“to improve sentiment toward risk assets, such as China,”
Booth said.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., fell 0.5 percent to $34.48,
while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 0.2 percent to
1,454.10.  7 Days Group, China’s second-biggest budget hotel owner,
surged to the highest since June 26 as shares jumped 8.8 percent
to $10.65. Shares have gained 18 percent since Sept. 20.  American depositary receipts of Hong Kong-based Melco Crown
gained for the first time in four days adding 2.8 percent to
$13.06 as JPMorgan Securities, in a Sept. 25 investor note led
by analyst  Joseph Greff , said a rebound in the Macau gaming
market will “serve as a likely catalyst for positive estimate
revisions.”  ‘Mass Market’  Macau casinos may benefit from more “mass market”
visitors and a “slight” increase in junkets’ credit to VIP
patrons as well as easing by Chinese monetary authorities, Greff
said.  Melco Crown said it amended a shareholders’ agreement to
invest a further $350 million of equity capital in its Studio
City project. Macau’s Public Works & Transport department in
July gave Melco Crown approval for the project, a five-star
hotel and film production facilities on a 130,789 square meter
(1.4 million square foot) site.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , the Chinese advertising company
that may be acquired by a consortium that includes  Carlyle Group
LP (CG) , climbed 2.1 percent to $23.39, the most since the company’s
board received a $27 per share “going private” proposal on
Aug. 13. The acquisition of Shanghai-based Focus Media would
mark China’s largest leveraged buyout.  Yingli, based in Baoding of China’s northern Hebei
province, added 1.8 percent to $1.72, the most in two weeks, as
the official China Securities Journal reported that state-owned
lender China Development Bank Corp. is preparing to recommend
stronger financial support for solar companies.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the world’s fourth-largest solar-panel
manufacturer, was also mentioned in the report as being slated
for government aide. Trina added 0.9 percent to $4.44.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  