-- Maanshan Sues Suppliers for Alleged $127 Million Defaults
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-25T08:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/maanshan-sues-suppliers-for-alleged-127-million-defaults-1-.html
A unit of  Maanshan Iron & Steel (323) 
Co., the second-biggest Hong Kong-traded steelmaker, filed
lawsuits against suppliers alleging they defaulted on contracts
worth 803.6 million yuan ($127 million).  The logistics unit of the steelmaker, based in the Anhui
province of China, sued nine companies including Shanghai Beiyue
Investment Co. and an individual for failure to deliver goods
and refund payments, Maanshan said in an exchange filing
yesterday. The suppliers are based in Shanghai and the eastern
port city of Zhangjiagang.  Executives at Shanghai Beiyue, Shanghai Dandong Iron &
Steel Co. and Shanghai Huacheng Materials Co. weren’t available
for comment. Calls to the other six companies, including
Zhangjiagang Free Trade Zone Haozhou Logistics Co., weren’t
answered. You Shuchun, the individual named in Maanshan’s
statement, couldn’t be traced in a search by  Bloomberg News .  The troubles at Maanshan’s suppliers are a consequence of a
sputtering Chinese economy, which grew at the slowest pace since
2009 in the second quarter. Steel prices tumbled to the lowest
since the 2008 global financial crisis crisis early this month
on sluggish demand from builders and automakers.  “Steelmakers have difficulties in collecting money or
goods as capital conditions are tight through the industry
chain,” said Sarah Wang, a Shanghai-based analyst with
 Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)  in Shanghai. “But this is the first
time we’ve heard about a steelmaker suing its suppliers.”  Steel Prices  Maanshan  shares  advanced 0.6 percent to close at HK$1.83 in
Hong Kong today, beating a 0.02 percent increase in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Chinese prices of hot-rolled coil, an industry benchmark,
have gained 10 percent after the nation approved spending on
subways, railways, roads and ports on Sept. 6.  Steel prices 
climbed 0.2 percent today to 3,599  yuan  a metric ton, according
to the researcher Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  “Finance conditions will be improving at the  steel
industry ” if the rebound in prices continues, reducing chances
for contract defaults, Wang said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  