-- Abu Hamza Extradition to U.S. Will Be Sped Up After Court Ruling
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-09-25T11:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/abu-hamza-can-be-extradited-in-terror-case-rights-court-says.html
Abu Hamza al-Masri, an Islamic
cleric jailed for inciting murder and racial hatred, will be
extradited from Britain to the U.S. at the earliest opportunity
after a  European court  said his  human rights  weren’t at risk.  “We will work to ensure that the individuals are handed
over to the U.S. authorities as quickly as possible,” the
British  Home Office  in London said in an e-mailed statement
last night.  The Grand Chamber panel at the  European Court of Human
Rights  rejected appeals by Abu Hamza and four other alleged
terrorists to fight the court’s April decision to allow
extradition, saying in a statement yesterday “there would be no
violation of the applicants’ rights” under the European
Convention if they were to be sent to stand trial in the U.S.  The U.S. seeks to prosecute Abu Hamza on charges he
supported the Taliban with money and troops, set up a terrorist
training camp in Bly,  Oregon , in 2000 and aided a kidnapping
plot that left four hostages dead in Yemen in 1998.  The potential for a life sentence and solitary confinement
in the so-called supermax prison is justified in cases where
inmates are a “significant security risk,” the Strasbourg,
France-based court ruled in April. The U.S. facility also has
amenities that go beyond what’s provided in most prisons in
 Europe , it said.  U.K. Sentence  Abu Hamza, the former head of the Finsbury Park mosque in
north London, was sentenced by a U.K. court in 2006 to seven
years in prison for encouraging his followers to kill Jews and
other non-Muslims in sermons between 1997 and 2000. An appeals
court rejected his claims the jury was swayed by the media’s
demonization of the cleric and unrelated acts of terrorism, such
as the 2005 bombings on  London ’s public transport system.  Abu Hamza, who was born in  Egypt  and granted British
citizenship in 1986, is known for the hook-shaped prosthetic he
wears in place of his hand. He argued in the U.K. case that he
preaches religious tenets set forth in the Koran and was only
prosecuted to avoid political embarrassment after the U.S.
government filed terrorism charges against him.  A sixth applicant’s appeal is pending, as the court is
still awaiting additional information from the parties,
according to the rights court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  