-- Accused N.Y. Madam Pleads Guilty to Promoting Prostitution
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-09-25T22:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/accused-n-y-madam-pleads-guilty-to-promoting-prostitution-1-.html
Anna Gristina, a  New York  woman
charged with running a brothel that prosecutors said catered to
wealthy clients, pleaded guilty to one count of promoting
prostitution.  Gristina, 45, entered her plea today before Justice  Juan
Merchan  of state Supreme Court in  Manhattan . Merchan said he
will sentence her on Nov. 20 to six months in jail and five
years’ probation, with credit for the four months she already
served at Rikers Island, the city’s main jail complex.  “We would have liked to have tried the case but it’s very
difficult to say ‘no’ to a good offer and we were made one,”
her attorney, Norman Pattis, told reporters after the plea. “I
think Miss Gristina realized that defending the case would
require her to let me hurt people close to her and out of
loyalty to those people she’s ended the struggle.”  Prosecutors said in court that they haven’t found any
evidence to support Gristina’s claims that she had connections
in city, state and federal agencies, including the  New York City
Police Department , the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation and the
Manhattan District Attorney’s Office.  Many Years  “We are left with a straightforward promoting prostitution
case -- a defendant who ran a brothel for many years and who
profited from the sex trade,” Assistant District Attorney
Charles Linehan told Merchan in court today.  Gristina, a British subject who is a legal permanent
resident of the U.S., acknowledged during her plea that she
“knowingly advanced and profited from prostitution by managing,
supervising, controlling and owning a prostitution business and
enterprise” involving activity by two or more prostitutes
between July 18 and July 27, 2011.  She admitted that she arranged through telephone calls,
 text messages  and at least one face-to-face meeting for a man
known to her as Anthony to engage in sexual conduct with the two
prostitutes at an apartment on East 78th Street.  Gristina, a mother of four, left court with her husband and
children without speaking to reporters. Merchan -- who said it
was “poor judgment” to bring her children to court -- warned
Gristina, who is Scottish, that she could face deportation
because of the plea.  “I’m disappointed,” Pattis, her lawyer, said. “It would
have been a fun trial, but I think she made an intelligent
choice that benefits her family.”  The case is People v. Gristina, 12-00751, New York State
 Supreme Court , New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  