-- Africa Economic Growth Can Weather Europe Crisis, Moody’s Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-09-25T23:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/africa-economic-growth-can-weather-europe-crisis-moody-s-says.html
African economies will probably
cope with the fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis because
governments created the room for fiscal expansion and to raise
more international debt,  Moody’s (MCO)  Investors Service said.  Africa ’s gross domestic product is forecast to expand an
average 6 percent a year for the next five years if Europe, the
largest trading partner, records 0 percent to 2 percent annual
growth, Moody’s said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Despite the risks, we believe that there is a sustainable
growth story in Africa and, in general, expect the trend of
improving economic strength and creditworthiness in the region
to continue,” Moody’s said, according to the report.  African economies demonstrated resilience during the
2008-2009 global financial crisis because many nations had the
space to provide fiscal stimulus, Moody’s said. The region may
again have the flexibility to combat a global downturn as debt
will probably stay at “sustainable” levels and  economic growth 
is accelerating, it said.  Governments in Africa may need to boost borrowing on
international credit markets to fund infrastructure plans to
help boost growth over the longer term, Moody’s said. Higher
sovereign-bond sales may encourage corporate borrowing, it said.  Under Pressure  “Access to new resources will be crucial” it said.
“International issuance, first by Africa’s sovereigns followed
by banks and utilities, are likely to be strategies adopted over
time in order to access long-term finance and reduce the
region’s reliance on European capital and bank financing.”
European lenders are the main source of “external liquidity”
to Africa’s banking system, according to the report.  African economies will come under pressure if financial
conditions in Europe deteriorate, according to the report. North
Africa may be the hardest hit because half of its trade is with
Europe and it’s still recovering from political unrest, it said.
Only about 15 percent of exports from  East Africa  are sold to
European Union nations, Moody’s said.  Other factors that may affect Africa’s performance include
volatility in commodity prices and reduced appetite for risk by
investors, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  