-- Albemarle & Bond Pawnbroker Drops on Gold Business: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-09-25T16:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/albemarle-bond-pawnbroker-drops-on-gold-business-london-mover.html
Albemarle & Bond Holdings Plc (ABM) , the
U.K.’s biggest pawnbroker, fell the most in more than 12 years
after saying it will slash store openings this year as profit is
hurt by declining margins on gold.  The stock fell 12 percent, its biggest one-day drop since
July 2000. Full-year profitability will decline as gold-buying
volumes and margins fall, the Berkshire, England-based company
said in a statement today. Albemarle & Bond said it will reduce
the number of store openings to five this financial year from 25
in the year ended June 30.  “Forecasts will be heading south,”  Nick Batram , a Peel
Hunt analyst, wrote in a note today. “A dramatic reduction in
the opening program and talk of other mitigating actions looks a
bit of a knee jerk reaction and frankly damages the credibility
of Albemarle & Bond management.” Batram reduced his
recommendation on the stock to sell from hold.  Albemarle & Bond and competitors such as  H&T Group Plc (HAT) 
increased store openings over the past two years as pawnbrokers
saw revenue rise while U.K. banks tightened lending criteria,
and Britons struggled with inflation and rising unemployment.
Gold prices climbed about 10 percent last year and have fallen
about 1.1 percent this year since peaking in February.  H&T Group anticipated weaker gold-purchasing trends “way
before” Albemarle & Bond and “remains our preferred stock,”
Peel Hunt’s Bertram wrote.  Albemarle & Bond fell 36 pence to 260.5 pence, bringing the
decline to 21 percent this year and giving the company a market
value of 144.7 million pounds ($235 million). H&T dropped 3.1
percent to 286 pence, bringing the decline this year to 11
percent.  Albemarle & Bond’s full-year pretax profit rose 2 percent
to 21.4 million pounds and the company had 237 stores at June
30, according to today’s statement. The company will focus on
meeting demand for short-term loans and “optimising value”
from recent shop openings, Chief Executive Officer Barry Stevenson said in the statement. The business has doubled in
size in the past three years, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at  