-- Allianz’s Baete Dusts Off Drill in Trial for Top Job
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-09-26T12:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/allianz-s-baete-dusts-off-pneumatic-drill-in-trial-for-top-job.html
When  Allianz SE (ALV)  executive Oliver Baete was 18, he spent his Christmas holiday drilling in the
cold and rain at a road works in Cologne to save up for a moped.  Almost 30 years later the opera aficionado and former
McKinsey & Co. consultant must show he can still get his hands
dirty to confirm his status as favorite to be the next head of
 Europe ’s biggest insurer. That chance comes in January when the
47-year-old,  dubbed  “Mr. Efficiency” by Institutional Investor
magazine five years ago, gives up his position as chief
financial officer to take charge of the Munich-based insurer’s
western and southern Europe operations.  Baete is an outsider, who has experienced a rapid rise
since joining Allianz as chief operating officer in January
2008. Twenty months later he was appointed CFO, a position it
took his predecessor Helmut Perlet 24 years to attain.  “It’s obvious that Baete is warming up for the top post,”
said  Konrad Becker , an analyst with Merck Finck & Co. in Munich.
“To achieve that, he still needs to show he can lead an
operating unit.”  Allianz Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann, who turns
58 in December, said this month that the time was right to
“execute our plan” for Baete to take operational
responsibility for an insurance business. Baete, the only
 management board  member on all four  group committees , must show
he can lead Allianz’s 142,000-strong workforce as well as he
mastered its 669 billion-euro ($867 billion)  balance sheet .  Proving Candidacy  “Baete now has to prove himself operationally to qualify
as a candidate to succeed Diekmann at the helm of Allianz,”
said  Philipp Haessler , an analyst at Equinet AG in  Frankfurt .
“Just being a good CFO is not enough. Therefore, it makes sense
to let him show that he can also succeed in the bread and butter
insurance business and managing markets such as  France  and  Italy 
certainly won’t be an easy task.”  Baete’s new board responsibility will include western
European insurance except  Spain ,  Portugal  and the German-
speaking countries, and also global property and casualty.
France may be a key test for Baete as it’s one of Allianz’s few
important markets where the insurer  isn’t a leading player , said
Thomas Seidl, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein in  London .  “While Baete tends to have a schoolmaster’s demeanor, he’s
very smart, very quick-witted and unlike other German managers
he’s easily at home on an international stage,” said Becker of
Merck Finck. “Compared to the rather introvert Diekmann, Baete
is very talkative and outgoing.”  Baete declined to be interviewed for this story.  Biggest Achievement  As CFO, Baete started preparing the insurer for Solvency
II, European Union risk-based industry regulations that are
scheduled for introduction next year. That included heading the
development of an internal model for the application of the new
rules.  “His biggest achievement is that he’s put a more
structured discipline into the group,” said Michael Huttner, an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, who adds that Baete
understands what investors want. “He’s put a system in place to
make sure Allianz delivers on its targets.”  Baete was responsible for starting the restructuring of the
company’s U.S. business, turning around the German non-life
division and ensuring Euler Hermes, the world’s biggest trade
credit insurer, delivers on its goals, according to Huttner.  Highly Ambitious  Baete is also credited, along with Perlet, of steering
Allianz through the global financial crisis. Since he joined the
company in 2008, the insurer’s solvency ratio, a measure of its
ability to absorb losses, improved from  150 percent  in the first
quarter of 2008 to 186 percent in the second quarter of this
year.  “He knows every nook and cranny of Allianz’s reporting,”
said  Christian Muschick , an analyst at Silvia Quandt Research in
Frankfurt. “He is painstakingly prepared, highly motivated and
highly ambitious. He strives to stay ahead of the pack.”  Allianz reiterated its full-year operating profit target of
7.7 billion euros to 8.7 billion euros on Aug. 3, after second-
quarter earnings climbed more than analysts estimated to 1.23
billion euros from 1 billion euros a year earlier. Allianz has
advanced 29 percent this year in Frankfurt trading, compared
with a 23 percent gain in the 26-company  Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index. (BEINSUR)   Baete was born in Bensberg, 14 kilometers east of the Rhine
river, and studied business administration at the University of
Cologne before graduating at Leonard Stern School of Business in
 New York  in 1993 with an MBA. After joining McKinsey in New
York, he transferred to the consultancy’s German unit in 1995.  Facing Competition  Baete, who spent most of his  career  at McKinsey, where he
was in charge of the European insurance and asset management
sector before he left, is switching jobs with Dieter Wemmer, 55,
at Allianz, who joined the insurer this year from  Zurich
Insurance Group AG. (ZURN)   A keen horse-rider, Baete may face competition for the CEO
post from the head of Allianz’s German operations, Markus Riess,
said Seidl at  Sanford Bernstein . Riess, 46, another former
McKinsey consultant, has more experience with the sales force
and the asset management business, he said.  “While Baete seems to be heading for the CEO post at
Allianz, the die hasn’t been cast yet,” he said. “Riess is
also among the contenders, albeit he has the Herculean task of
getting the German business back in shape.”  Cost Control  Diekmann, who became CEO in 2003 after starting as the
assistant to the head of the insurer’s Hamburg regional office
in 1988, comes to the end of his current contract in 2014,
according to Allianz’s  website .  Should Baete beat his rivals to the top job, one of his
priorities will be to control costs at a company that straddles
auto insurance in Germany to Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the world’s second-biggest asset management business after
BlackRock Inc.  Costs as measured by the  expense ratio  at Allianz’s
property and casualty insurance unit, typically the biggest
contributor to profit, rose to 28 percent in the three months
ending June 30 from 26.1 percent in the  first quarter  of 2008.  That trend should be possible to reverse, according to
Baete, who said on an Aug. 3 analyst call that sales growth will
help give Allianz “some scale effect on the admin side.”  “I’ve worked across many industries and this is the one
that has the worst productivity,” Baete said at a conference
organized by  Standard & Poor’s  in Munich in June 2009. “If you
go into operating processes you still find the 50s in terms of
operating model design. For many investors that’s intolerable.”  Staking Claim  While Baete and Gary Bhojwani, who heads the U.S. insurance
business, are the only Allianz board members under 50, he has
yet to leave his mark on the company, said Becker of Merck
Finck.  “What Baete lacks so far is a unique personal achievement
at Allianz that singles him out among the other board members
and therefore the race for the top spot is not decided yet,” he
said. “Now he has gotten the chance to make his claim.”  The job on the road gang, which Baete’s parents thought he
would give up after three days, suggest he won’t lack for
effort.  “It was my worst job ever,” Baete wrote in a column for
Handelsblatt newspaper in January 2010. “But, I kept going and
I was able to buy my moped in the end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  