-- Hamlette the Micro-Pig Turns Macro, Sleeps With Goat
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/hamlette-the-micro-pig-turns-macro-sleeps-with-goat.html
Although I have known a few human
pigs in my life, a real pig seemed a distant dream until I saw
an ad on Craigslist in the spring of 2011.  You can buy anything on Craigslist. Once I bought a small
cow, but that’s another story.  “Hamlette, fully grown, friendly, 25-pound micro-pig; $150
with crate.”  I’ve loved pigs since my childhood in  Germany  when
Christmas brought a small marzipan porker with a coin in its
mouth for good luck.  My human and I were spending too much time apart, and I
figured adopting a pig might bring us closer.  Buying human tots seemed to work for the entitled girls and
aging males in our circle and I thought the concept worth
pursuing. As you know, pigs are said to be as smart as two-year-
olds.  In retrospect, a boa constrictor might have been just as
conducive to bonding, but I’ve never regretted rescuing Hamlette
from a dilapidated house in the Hudson River town of Beacon.  Stuffed inside a dog carrier, she squealed nonstop for 45
minutes until I let her down in the sunroom. She looked around,
spied the dog flap and disappeared into the flower beds, where
she lay down briefly to recover from her ordeal, and then went
on to do some unnecessary gardening.  The three beagles who had gaped at the newly installed and
mysterious dog door finally grasped the concept and followed.
For a brief while, they all shared treats, beds, outings.  Godzilla-Sized Pigs  You may know where this story is going. Hamlette would not
stop growing. I feared the day when she wouldn’t fit through the
human door.  So we ate her.  No we didn’t, though the thought crossed my mind.  I’d been snookered. Returning to Craigslist, I saw that the
same smarty was selling another micro-pig also named Hamlette in
Beacon, which really should drop its “e.”  There’s something called a “tea cup” pig which a breeder
might sell with a size limit, but judging by my stack of books
(please, no more), these seem to thrive mostly in  England . And
even there, people are forever being trapped inside kitchens and
cars by sofa-sized pets.  A year later, I have a new human, a porcophile fortunately,
who tends a growing archive. Here’s a headline from the  Daily
Mail : “Call This a Micro-Pig? Epidemic of Horrified Owners
Whose Cute Little Piglets Have Turned Into Oversize Porkers.”  “There was nothing we could do from our cruise ship; we
told her to call her older brothers and get them round for
help,” said the mother of a young woman who was stuck in a
garden shed with Pigwig, his feedbag and her cell phone.  Fortunately, in another moment of late midlife panic, I had
also bought a rundown, tiny farm with two friends, one of whom
arrived with the makings of a zoo: turkeys, goats, a weird bunch
of donkeys and one lame horse.  Meth Chickens  Hamlette, in high dudgeon, was transported down the road to
what has become known as The Sow and the Cow.  Then, thanks to a huge misunderstanding, a neighbor gave me
two other pigs which, really, I had not asked for. But their
faces begged me to save them and so I did. Welcome Venus and
Mimi.  A visiting pig warden hustled them over through the woods,
past the pond and a recycled girl-scout cabin which now housed
three meth chickens, survivors of a drug bust.  Apparently you can hide the stench of cooking up some meth
with chicken excrement. Who knew?  Hamlette’s expressive brown eyes narrowed with contempt as
two hefty, squinting Vietnamese potbellied pigs squealed into
view.  More Equal  To refine  George Orwell ’s observation: “All pigs are equal
but some pigs are more equal than others.”  Her superiority has been hard to ignore and somewhat
heartbreaking. There are no schools for ambitious pigs.  And her talents are many. She can rise on her hind legs and
beg, though she has yet to walk like Orwell’s Napoleon. She
plays solitary soccer with a blue ball and has the shrieking
range and neediness of many hysterical divas I have known.  The other week when I absentmindedly arrived without Fig
Newtons, she had a meltdown. What? No roses? She found her ball
and began banging it against the wall in frustration, before
retiring to a corner in a sulk.  Cheer Up  Hamlette, pray be happy, I sometimes say, brushing her
bristles and drifting into soothing Shakespearese. See how your
melancholy troubles me.  Lately her mood has brightened with the arrival of a goat
who escaped a slaughterhouse and wandered the streets of
 Brooklyn .  Now he too resides at The Sow and the Cow. It’s getting
crowded. How did the donkey population suddenly increase? We’re
up to four. When did that midget with the long ears arrive? Is
there some Underground Railroad for abused creatures? Did I ask
for that mule?  Anyway, a glimpse of goat Tuffy (or his food?), through the
wire fence, appears to have inflamed Hamlette. Even a sliding
lock that defies some humans has not thwarted her from squeezing
into the goat house. She rises on her legs and pushes with her
strong snout.  The other morning, we found her fast asleep with Tuffy by
her side. As she woke up and yawned extravagantly, she seemed
happy.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Muse highlight include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Richard Vines 
on dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 