-- Appeals Court Revives Suits Against Saudi Billionaire
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-09-25T23:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/appeals-court-revives-suits-against-saudi-billionaire.html
Saudi billionaire Maan al-Sanea and
members of the kingdom’s Algosaibi family must face lawsuits in
 New York  that a judge had dismissed in 2010, a state appeals
court ruled.  Mashreqbank PSC, a bank in the  United Arab Emirates , sued
Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Bros. Co., a Saudi Arabian company whose
general partners are members of the Algosaibi family, in 2009
after transferring $150 million to Algosaibi’s New York bank
account. There is no dispute that Algosaibi was supposed to wire
the bank the equivalent sum in Saudi currency and didn’t,
according to the 2010 ruling. Algosaibi countersued the bank.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Richard Lowe threw out
the lawsuits in July 2010, saying the litigation doesn’t belong
in the U.S. because the people named in the suits are unable to
travel to America and most of the witnesses live abroad.  An appellate panel in  Manhattan  today reversed Lowe’s
ruling, saying that New York has a “paramount interest in
protecting its own financial institutions.”  “New York has a compelling interest in adjudicating
controversies that implicate its preeminent position in the
international banking system,” Justice James M. Catterson wrote
for the majority.  ‘Inconvenient Forum’  Two justices, Angela Mazzarelli and Richard T. Andrias,
disagreed with the majority.  “The motion court correctly considered and balanced the
appropriate factors in finding that New York is an inconvenient
forum for this dispute,” Andrias wrote.  Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Bros., which had appealed Lowe’s
ruling, is pleased that the appeals court has “recognized the
critical role of New York courts in massive international frauds
that use the U.S. banking system,” said  Eric Lewis , an attorney
with Lewis Baach Pllc in  Washington  who serves as chief legal
coordinator for the company.  “Foreign parties should not be allowed to use New York
banks to perpetuate massive financial frauds and escape scrutiny
simply by engineering the wrongdoing from outside the country,”
Lewis said in a statement.  The decision is “procedural only,” said Carmine D. Boccuzzi Jr., a partner with  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP  who represents Mashreqbank.  “Mashreq is confident it will prevail on the merits,”
Boccuzzi said in a telephone message. “Mashreq has already
obtained a judgment in its favor from a UAE court on the same
issues AHAB has been seeking to relitigate in New York.”  Robert F. Serio, a lawyer with Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP
who represents al-Sanea, declined to comment on the ruling.  The cases are  Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ)  v. Ahmed Hamad Al Gosaibi &
Bros. Co., 601650/2009, and Ahmed Hamad Al Gosaibi & Bros. Co.
v. Al Sanea, 590643/2009, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  