-- Apple Thefts in New York Outpace Rise in Overall Crime
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-09-25T14:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/apple-thefts-increase-faster-than-overall-new-york-crime-1-.html
Thefts of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  products in
 New York  City increased more since last year than crime overall,
according to the police department.  The Cupertino, California-based company’s products were
stolen in a total of 11,447 incidents between Jan. 1 and Sept.
23, an increase of 40 percent over the same period a year
earlier, the NYPD said in a statement yesterday. That compares
with a 4 percent rise in the same period for the total number of
index crimes -- the seven major crimes, including murder, rape
and robbery.  The NYPD stationed officers at 21 stores in the city where
the iPhone 5 went on sale on Sept. 21 to help buyers register
their new devices so they can be traced if stolen. About 1,500
phones were registered with the assistance of police officers,
according to  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the department.  Earlier this year, the NYPD deployed patrol officers with
technology that allows them to locate stolen iPhones and other
stolen Apple products and apprehend those responsible. Officers
have used the tools to recover property and make arrests.
“Our emphasis on prevention and investigation of Apple thefts
stems from the fact that they are a magnet for crime, including
robberies, driving the spike we’ve experienced this
year,”Browne said in an e-mail.  Smartphone Demand  Apple said demand for its newest smartphone, iPhone 5,
continued to exceed the initial supply, an issue the company
cited last week as the cause of delivery delays for some early
online orders.  The latest model, which was reported stolen from stores in
 Japan  and the U.K. when it went on sale last week, is fetching a
premium on  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and other outlets. No thefts of the new
device have been reported in  New York City  yet, Browne said.  Apple reported debut weekend sales for the iPhone 5 that
fell short of some analysts’ estimates after supply constraints
delayed shipments. More than 5 million iPhone 5s were sold in
the first three days, surpassing a record set last year by the
previous model, Apple said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  