-- Apple’s Scorched-Earth IPhone Fight With Google
-- B y   S u s a n   P .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-09-25T00:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/apple-s-scorched-earth-iphone-fight-with-google.html
In the article “ Easter Island’s
End ,” Jared Diamond described the steps that led to the
deforestation of a subtropical, fertile paradise.  Over a few hundred years, inhabitants used the gigantic
palm trees around them as rolling surfaces on which to haul
stones; they then used more trees to lever the stones into place
on platforms. Competing chieftains built larger statues on
larger platforms. Eventually, the last tree was gone and the
island was covered only in grasses and shrubs, leading to
starvation and even cannibalism. Diamond explains that there was
no signal crisis:  “Gradually trees became fewer, smaller, and less important.
By the time the last fruit-bearing adult palm tree was cut,
palms had long since ceased to be of economic significance. That
left only smaller and smaller palm saplings to clear each year,
along with other bushes and treelets. No one would have noticed
the felling of the last small palm.”  The Easter Islanders’ incremental march toward disaster is
an apt analogy for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s decision to keep  Google Maps  off
the newly released iPhone 5, the latest of a series of steps
toward control by powerful actors over users’ online behavior.
The question is whether the pattern is clear enough for
regulatory authorities to take action.  Smartphone Use  Apple has a strong incentive to protect its platform.
Google Inc.’s Android is far more  popular  in the U.S. than
Apple’s system, but the iPhone is particularly appealing to
younger Americans -- two-thirds of whom already own a
 smartphone .  So iPhone users may be irritated by Apple’s removal of
 Google Maps  -- not least because Apple’s own mapping software is
sometimes inaccurate and doesn’t include  directions  for public
transit -- but there is nothing they can do.  AT&T Inc. and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , meanwhile, have
strong incentives to ensure that their subscribers remain loyal
to their wireless services, and iPhone users may have lower
 churn rates . It’s a tradeoff, though, because the carriers are
forced to heavily subsidize these new devices.  In return for subsidizing upgrades to the iPhone 5, the
wireless giants hope to be able to reap higher revenue by
shunting those users to their new shared data plans --
particularly as users are forced to pay extra fees for using
more data than their plans allow and for connecting additional
devices.  The plans themselves are likely to give AT&T and Verizon a
greater share of the wireless market, because families and
businesses will push to concentrate all their devices into a
shared plan. The rebellious family members or employees who
subscribe to T-Mobile will be under significant pressure to
switch.  Verizon’s chief financial officer, Fran Shammo, has already
announced that unlimited data plans are “going by the wayside.”
That’s no accident because new Verizon customers have no choice
but to go the shared data plan  route .  AT&T (T)  now blocks use of Apple’s videoconferencing
application FaceTime over its cellular network by anyone who
hasn’t bought a shared data  plan . This means users will be
subject to the carrier’s data caps and more likely to incur
extra fees. Public-interest groups have criticized AT&T’s
 actions . The company is unmoved and has dismissed the complaints
as “kneejerk  reactions .”  Data Caps  These incremental gestures toward concentration become more
meaningful when you include the wired marketplace, where  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  and other geographically clustered cable companies are
dominant. In this area, data caps are also in place and
companies have the ability to decide how to treat individual
applications. There is little effective competition in the data
market from the wireless carriers and little effective
oversight. In fact, Verizon is already cooperating with Comcast.  Users of the iPhone whose maps application was swapped out
when they upgraded to Apple’s iOS 6 platform have had a glimpse
of what the carriers’ power could entail: Just as Apple chose to
remove its reliable maps app that used  Google (GOOG) ’s data when the
two companies’ business relationship became complicated, the
cable companies can make services such as Netflix subject to
data caps while exempting their own online video offerings.
Users may be irritated, of course, but there’s nothing they can
do about it.  Anil Dash, the co-founder of the media and technology
consulting firm Activate.com, said last week that the move
against Google Maps was the first time Apple had put “boxing out
competitors” ahead of serving the interests of iPhone users.
Similarly, a vertically integrated, market-dominating carrier
such as Comcast could now employ its usage caps (which wouldn’t
necessarily apply to its own or affiliated services) to
effectively squeeze out competitors providing information,
entertainment or connections that Comcast didn’t want to
support.  The best way to describe the Apple-AT&T-Comcast narrative
might be “creeping normalcy.” We should remember what happened
to the people of  Easter Island  as they chopped down their
forests, bit by bit, until it was too late and their
civilization was destroyed.  (Susan P. Crawford is a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
visiting professor at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government
and  Harvard Law School . She is a former special assistant to
President  Barack Obama  for science, technology and innovation
policy. The opinions expressed are her own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Libor and criminal charges 
and on a needed delay for  Arctic oil drilling ;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on  “Muslim rage” in Pakistan ; William Pesek on  Myanmar’s
economic development ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on  QE3 FAQs ; Roben Farzad
on the breakup between  Goldman Sachs and ambitious youth ;  Jeff
Rubin  on  oil’s inadequate replacements .  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or @scrawford on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 