-- Asian Currencies Rally on Speculation Exporters Repatriate Funds
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-09-25T08:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/asian-currencies-rally-on-speculation-exporters-repatriate-funds.html
Asian currencies rebounded, led by
India’s rupee, on speculation the region’s exporters took
advantage of yesterday’s drop to repatriate earnings as the end
of the month approaches.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index slid the most
since Aug. 2 yesterday after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Francois Hollande  clashed over the weekend on a
timetable to introduce joint oversight of Europe’s banks.
Taiwan’s dollar advanced after data showed yesterday that
factory output unexpectedly rose in August.  “Yesterday’s weakness provides good levels for exporters
to sell their dollars,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at
Forecast Pte. in Singapore. “I don’t think the strength in
Asian currencies is sustainable as much of the attention is back
to what’s happening in the  euro zone .”  The rupee strengthened 0.3 percent to 53.3175 per dollar as
of 2 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Taiwan’s dollar, Malaysia’s ringgit and South Korea’s won gained
0.1 percent to NT$29.451, 3.0690 and 1,119.45, respectively. The
Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-active
currencies excluding the yen, increased 0.06 percent after
sliding 0.18 percent yesterday.  The Taiwanese currency climbed after official data
yesterday showed industrial production rose 1.89 percent last
month from a year earlier, the most since February and compared
with the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey for a decline of
0.6 percent. Export orders declined in August for a sixth month,
a report showed last week. Global funds bought $133 million more
Taiwanese stocks than they sold yesterday, taking net purchases
in September to $1.7 billion, exchange data show.  Malaysian Budget  “Volume is a bit thin today; it’s mostly trade-related as
exporters sell the greenback,” said Tarsicio Tong, a foreign-
exchange trader at  Union Bank of Taiwan (2838)  in Taipei. “Although
we’re seeing some improvements in industrial output data,
exports numbers need to turn positive as well to give sentiment
a boost.”  The ringgit rebounded from its biggest loss in three months
before the government releases its budget for next year on Sept.
28. Malaysia wants to cut its  budget deficit  to 3 percent of
gross domestic product by 2015 from about 4.7 percent this year,
Second Finance Minister Ahmad Husni Mohamad told reporters in
 Kuala Lumpur  on Sept. 11.  “A cut in the budget deficit will have a positive impact
on the ringgit in the medium to long term,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at  Malayan Banking
Bhd. (MAY)  in Singapore. Optimism exporters will bring home money
earned offshore before the end of September is also supporting
the local currency, he said.  Chinese Stimulus  The  yuan  snapped a two-day decline on speculation increased
government spending will help revive growth in the coming
quarters. The currency traded near a five-month high after
official data showed new bank loans surged 30 percent in August,
the most since March, signaling Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s steps to
spur growth are having an impact.  “We started to look for a little bit of  renminbi 
appreciation,” said Cliff Tan, a currency strategist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in  Hong Kong . “We haven’t been so bearish
on the Chinese economy. Fiscal spending will start to have an
impact on economic indicators within a month or two.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso, Indonesia’s rupiah and
Thailand’s baht each strengthened 0.1 percent to 41.735 per
dollar, 9,586 and 30.92, respectively. Vietnam’s dong was little
changed at 20,875.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  