-- Doosan Infracore Markets Dollar Debt as Sales This Month Soar
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-25T06:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/asia-pacific-bond-risk-climbs-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Doosan Infracore Co. (042670)  began
marketing U.S. dollar-denominated bonds as offerings from
companies in the Asia-Pacific region rose to $29.1 billion this
month, the most for any September in at least a decade.  Doosan Infracore, South  Korea ’s biggest construction-
equipment maker, is considering pricing revolving 30-year bonds
at about 300 basis points more than five-year Treasuries,
according to a person familiar with the matter who asked not to
be identified because the terms aren’t set. Doosan can buy back
the bonds after five years, the person said. The offering comes
even as the cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds from
default rose for a second day.  Yields on dollar debt in  Asia  are falling to record lows
prompting companies from Korea to  India  and China to sell
securities. Indian power generator  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC)  sold $500 million
of bonds yesterday, attracting eight times more orders than
notes available, a person familiar with the matter said.  China
South City Holdings Ltd. (1668) ,  China Hongqiao Group Ltd. (1378)  and  China
Resources Cement Holdings Ltd. (1313)  are all meeting investors in
Singapore today, people with knowledge of the details said.  “We’ve been expecting dollar bond issuance to reach an
all-time high in Asia in 2012 given the low dollar interest
rates and fund inflows,” said Edwin Chan, the head of Asian
credit research at UBS AG in Hong Kong. “Chinese companies in
particular will see high net issuance in the offshore market
especially when domestic credit conditions are tight.”  Asian companies  are paying  an average 4.15 percent to sell
dollar debt after costs fell to the lowest level in almost two
years last week, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.
Investors put $1.25 billion into emerging market bond funds in
the week to Sept. 19, the 15th week of inflows, data from EPFR
Global show.  Accelerating Inflation  China  is keeping a close watch on lending after inflation
 accelerated  to 2 percent last month from the previous year, the
first quickening in the pace of price increases in five months.
Top-rated companies  pay  an average 4.55 percent to sell three-
year debt onshore, 55 basis points more than at the beginning of
the quarter, data compiled by Chinabond show.  Dollar bond sales in the region climbed to $3 billion this
week, bringing the month-to-date total to $29.1 billion compared
with $7.6 billion in the same period of September 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales in the same
period of last month were $4.9 billion, as summer holidays in
Europe slowed activity.  The Markit iTraxx Asia Series 18 index of 40 investment-
grade borrowers outside Japan rose 2 basis points to 137 as of
8:28 a.m. in Hong Kong,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  prices show. The
gauge has increased from a 14-month low of 112.6 on Sept. 19,
according to CMA pricing on Series 17 of the index.  Australian Bonds  The Markit iTraxx Japan index advanced 1 basis point to 219
as of 9:27 a.m. in Tokyo, Deutsche Bank AG prices show. The
measure is set for its highest close since October last year,
according to CMA pricing for the previous series.  The Markit iTraxx Australia Series 18 index was little
changed at 155 basis points as of 10:28 a.m. in Sydney,
according to  Credit Agricole . The benchmark has ranged between
135.3 and 186 this quarter, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  New versions of the benchmarks are created every six months
when companies are added or dropped depending on their ratings,
the cost of protecting their debt and the ease of trading their
swaps. The maturity date of the new indexes, which started
trading Sept. 20, is December 2017, compared with June 2017 on
the Series 17 versions.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  