-- AT&T to Market Business Mobile Security to Consumers
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/at-t-to-market-business-mobile-security-to-consumers.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , the second largest U.S.
wireless carrier, is expanding its mobile-security service for
businesses and will announce a similar push targeting consumers
next year.  AT&T said today it now has a range of security services for
businesses such as Toggle, a so-called partition software for
companies that lets users switch between secure applications for
work and non-work features like Facebook and games for personal
use on one phone.  With industry wireless-subscriber growth slowing now that
nearly every adult has a mobile phone, Dallas-based AT&T is
trying to expand into new markets like home security, mobile-
device management and mobile-wallet services to drum up sales
growth. AT&T’s mobile-security effort comes as employers move
away from issuing workers devices like  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) 
BlackBerry smartphones and try to adapt policies for handsets
and tablets that employees bring to work.  “We have the advantage of starting with a tier one
infrastructure,” said AT&T Chief Security Officer Ed Amoroso,
in an interview. Mobile security for businesses is the first
step of a two-phase plan, the next stage is security services
for consumers, Amoroso said.  AT&T hasn’t announced any specific timing on its consumer
mobile security service. The product will likely debut in the
first half of next year, according to  Fletcher Cook , an AT&T
spokesman.  “This is a good spot for carriers to get involved and
provide a comprehensive solution,” said Kathryn Weldon, an
analyst with Current Analysis Inc. in Sterling, Virginia.  Mobile as a segment of enterprise software spending is
growing at an average annual rate of 18.4 percent, according to
researcher IDC. Over half the companies surveyed by Current
Analysis say they plan to seek outside help on mobile security.  AT&T joins a growing group of companies focused on mobile-
device support and security. In addition to RIM,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , Sybase Inc.,  Accenture PLC (ACN) , MobileIron Inc. are all
angling for a piece of the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  