-- Matt Damon’s Major Role in Finding Clean Water for World
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-09-25T14:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/matt-damon-s-major-role-in-finding-clean-water-for-world.html
When  Matt Damon  gets thirsty on a
movie set, he has a drinking container aligned with his
philanthropic mission.  “I have my Water.org bottle. It’s silver, with our little
logo,” Damon said in an interview at Bloomberg News world
headquarters in  New York .  Damon co-founded Water.org -- based in  Kansas City ,
 Missouri  -- in 2009 with Gary White, who serves as the
nonprofit’s chief executive. White, an engineer, had 20 years of
experience working on the issue. Their goal is “access to clean
water and sanitation for everyone on earth in our lifetime,”
Damon said.  At next year’s  Clinton Global Initiative ’s annual
conference, Damon and White plan to announce that they have made
good on a 2009 pledge to bring clean water and sanitation to
50,000 people in  Haiti .  “I talked to a little girl in Haiti when we were down
there earlier in the year,” Damon said, describing a village
project that spared the 13-year-old from hauling water. “In the
found time when she wasn’t going to go to collect water, she was
actually going to have time to play.”  According to the Water.org website, “every 20 seconds, a
child dies from a water-related illness.”  One of the chief components of Damon’s organization is
WaterCredit, which provides microloans to help people obtain
access to water.  Potential Customers  “The conventional wisdom is that all poor people are too
poor to pay for water services,” White said sitting alongside
Damon in the interview. “We see the poor as potential customers
who have intrinsic power. A microloan gives a water connection
so they don’t have to go to a loan shark.”  “The management consulting firm that we’ve worked with has
estimated that there are 100 million people that can be reached
by this by 2020,” Damon said. “That’s incredible when you’re
talking 700 million to 800 million people that don’t have access
to water.”  The idea that something like WaterCredit really works is
what drew Damon, a quality he says many Americans find
attractive.  “It was a place where I felt I could potentially have a
really big impact on improving people’s lives,” he said.
“There’s a lot of low-hanging fruit out there.”  Water.org’s model is to work with outside organizations,
from the corporate foundations of  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  to local NGOs to commercial lending institutions to the
outfitter CamelBak Products LLC, the maker of the Water.org
bottle. From the sale of every bottle, $10 goes to Water.org.  New Ventures  The program is also committed to trying new ideas. Its New
Ventures Fund, started to raise capital to test solutions, has
$4 million so far toward a $10 million goal. Contributors
include Michael Birch, creator of the social network Bebo, which
he sold to  AOL Inc. (AOL)  One of the fund’s projects is a program in
Haiti to offer information on clean-water sources through mobile
phones.  There is a necessary element of risk in such ventures,
Damon said.  “Harvard Business Review just put out an article about
this that actually broke it down,” he said. “You want 70
percent to be your core business, 20 percent to be adjacencies
to that and 10 percent to be highest risk. Funnily enough, they
say it pays off exactly inverse to that.”  White said that for him there was a necessary “emotional
connection” to Water.org’s work.  Emotional Connection  “I think people shouldn’t be afraid to be led by their
hearts, but they have to bring their heads along,” White said.
“It’s OK to say, this is an emotional connection for me but how
can I do it catalytically? How can I do it smarter? How can I
make sure that my philanthropy is invested in a way that’s going
to have a bigger impact?”  Damon himself got a slow start working on the issue.  “I had produced a documentary about people running across
the  Sahara desert , these ultra-marathoners, and had used it as a
chance to identify NGOs that were doing good work around
water,” he said. “My idea was to partner with these local
communities, with these groups we vetted.  “At any rate, we were raising funds and directing them to
the NGOs basically for well projects. As I learned more about it
I started to realize there were these other incredibly
innovative solutions that actually had a much better chance of
solving the problem.”  His next step: “I finally said, can somebody please
introduce me to the world’s foremost expert on this, who’s
actually doing something about it. That guy wasn’t available,”
Damon said, laughing and clearly enjoying the joke on his
partner. “But they introduced me to Gary.”  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own. This interviewed was adapted from a
longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  