-- Aussie Dollar Gains Versus Peers on Chinese Economic Data
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-09-25T05:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/australian-dollar-advances-as-china-economic-indicator-rises.html
Australia’s dollar gained against
most of its major counterparts as a leading indicator for
 China’s economy  rose in August, improving trade prospects for
the South Pacific nation.  The Australian and New Zealand currencies erased declines
after the Conference Board said its leading economic index for
 China  rose 1.7 percent to 240.4 in August from the previous
month. Demand for the so-called Aussie and kiwi dollars was
limited amid concern disagreement among the euro region’s
leaders is curbing prospects for growth.  “ Risk aversion  eased after the release of the Chinese
economic indicator,” buoying riskier assets such as the
Australian dollar, said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign
exchange department in Tokyo at  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)   Australia’s currency climbed 0.1 percent to $1.0432 as of
2:45 p.m. in Sydney and lost 0.1 percent to 81.12 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar gained 0.1 percent to 82.34 U.S.
cents, after sliding as much as 0.2 percent. The currency
dropped 0.1 percent to 64.03 yen.  China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export destination.  European Focus  A report tomorrow will probably show a gauge of French
 consumer confidence  fell to 86 in September from 87 last month,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . That would be the lowest since February.  Economists estimate an index of French  business confidence 
fell to 89 this month from 90 in August. The national statistics
office releases the data today.  “Markets are still cautious.  Europe  is still going to be
the key event this week,” said Alvin Pontoh, a Singapore-based
strategist at TD Securities Inc.  The Aussie has weakened 1.5 percent in the past month, the
second-worst performance among 10 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. New Zealand’s currency
was little changed over the same period.  “The Australian dollar is looking softer,” said Kumiko Gervaise, an analyst at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in
Tokyo. “It looks as though the unstable situation in Europe
could last for some time.”  Australian bonds advanced before the central bank’s policy
board meets on Oct. 2. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note
fell 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.2 percent.
 Reserve Bank  of Australia Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle  is
scheduled to speak in Melbourne at 6:30 p.m. local time today.  RBA Meeting  “If we see another significant move up in the Aussie
dollar to $1.06-$1.07, I think the RBA could lean against
cutting rates to bring the currency down,” TD’s Pontoh said.  Swaps indicate an 83 percent chance policy makers will cut
the overnight cash-rate target to 3.25 percent from 3.5 percent
when they meet Oct. 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The RBA said Australian households are building a financial
cushion by repaying mortgages faster and saving more,
while businesses are indicating renewed willingness to borrow.  “Given the large share of households with mortgage
prepayment buffers, along with relatively low unemployment and
moderate income growth, most households appear well placed to
meet their debt obligations,” the central bank said in its
semiannual financial stability review released in Sydney today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  