-- RBA Says ‘Buffers’ Shield Households From Global Risks: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-25T04:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/australian-buffer-shields-households-from-slump-rba-says.html
Australian households are building
a financial cushion by repaying mortgages faster and saving more,
while businesses are indicating renewed willingness to borrow,
the nation’s central bank said.  “Given the large share of households with mortgage
prepayment buffers, along with relatively low unemployment and
moderate income growth, most households appear well placed to
meet their debt obligations,” the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia 
said in its semiannual financial stability review released in
Sydney today.  A slowdown in mining that helped secure 21 recession-free
years in Australia has heightened focus on risks to an economy
where consumers took on more debt than Americans at the height
of the mortgage bubble. Policy makers have signaled confidence
they have the tools to cope with any external turbulence:
Australia has the highest  benchmark interest rate  among major
developed nations and the government has pledged to return the
budget to surplus.  The report underscores that Australian households have “a
decent shock-absorber there in case there is a loss of income,”
said Ben Jarman, a Sydney-based economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
“For those who are extremely downbeat on the prospects for the
economy, it’s a little bit of a pushback for that group.”  ‘Appetite for Debt’  The RBA said business credit grew at an annual pace of 6.5
percent over the six months to July after declining for most of
the prior three years, indicating companies’ “appetite for debt
may be starting to recover.” Even so, the central bank said
overall credit growth will probably remain “fairly subdued for
some time” due to weak demand, and banks may struggle to
achieve the profit growth they’ve been used to in previous
decades.  “In this environment, it would be undesirable if banks
responded by loosening their lending standards or imprudently
shifting into new products or markets in a bid to boost their
balance sheet growth,” the RBA said.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  -- the so-called four pillar lenders for a
law that prevents them from buying each other -- reported a 1
percent increase in profit to about A$11 billion ($11.5 billion)
for their latest six-month results from the same period a year
earlier, after adjusting for the effect of a large, one-time tax
benefit in 2011, the RBA said.  Consumer Borrowing  Australia’s  consumer borrowing  stood at 149.7 percent of
disposable income in the first quarter, compared with a record
156.3 percent in 2006, RBA data show. That’s higher than the 133
percent Americans accumulated at the peak of the U.S. subprime
mortgage boom, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of  San
Francisco .  “With aggregate indebtedness still around historically
high levels, a continuation of the recent borrowing restraint
would help strengthen the financial resilience of households,”
the central bank said.  About half of home-loan borrowers are ahead of schedule on
their mortgages, the RBA said, citing various data sources.
That’s “high compared with many other countries” and
comparable to Canada’s repayment rate, it said.  Asia’s benchmark stock index swung between gains and losses
today. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  was little changed at 123.20
at 12:04 p.m. in  Tokyo . Australia’s dollar held losses from
yesterday, trading at $1.0442 at 1 p.m. in Sydney.  South Korean  consumer confidence  held at a seven-month low
in September and the government said it plans to cut its fiscal
deficit to 0.3 percent of gross domestic product next year. A
Thai report may show that exports fell 5.8 percent in August
from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey. Hong Kong
releases trade data for August.  Draghi Address  In Berlin, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  is
scheduled to speak at an event organized by the Federation of
German Industries.  In the U.S., consumer confidence may have climbed in
September from a nine-month low. The S&P Case/Shiller index will
report on  home prices  in 20 U.S. cities for July.  A GfK SE report on German consumer confidence may hold
steady in October, according to a Bloomberg survey, UBS AG will
report a gauge of Swiss consumer demand for August and France
will release business confidence figures for September.  Australians’ savings rate has averaged about 9.5 percent of
disposable income in recent years, above the level five to 10
years ago. The RBA said consumers’ caution has partly been
motivated by a desire to rebuild wealth as real net worth per
household declined by 11.5 percent from its 2007 peak, much of
that reflecting a fall in  house prices .  Risk Aversion  Households have also reduced their exposure to the share
market as they become more risk averse, the RBA said. The share
of households’ financial assets held in equities, excluding
pension plans, dropped to 8.5 percent in March from 18 percent
in 2007. In contrast, the share of deposits has risen to 25
percent from 18 percent over the period, the RBA said.  Australian banks have become more dependent on deposits,
which account for 53 percent of lenders’ funding, up from about
40 percent in 2008, the central bank said.  “While the Australian banks have little direct asset
exposure to the most troubled euro-area countries, they remain
exposed to swings in global financial  market sentiment 
associated with the problems in  Europe ,” the RBA said. “They
should be more resilient to such episodes though, given the
improvements they have made to their funding.”  Investors are showing concern that Australia’s economy may
slow after the price of  iron ore , which made up more than 20
percent of exports last year, dropped as much as 37 percent this
year to the lowest level since October 2009.  Projects Shelved  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , Australia’s third-biggest
producer, cut its spending plans by 26 percent as iron-ore
prices declined. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest miner,
delayed work at the Olympic Dam copper-uranium-gold project in
South Australia last month, joining companies including  Xstrata
Plc (XTA)  and Rio Tinto Group in scaling back expansion.  Australia’s central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total
of 50 basis points late last year and a further 75 basis points
in May and June to help shield the economy from Europe’s debt
crisis and slower growth in  China . It held the rate at 3.5
percent at the past three meetings as European policy strived to
end the three-year malaise.  Traders are pricing in a 78 percent chance that the RBA
will cut borrowing costs by another 50 basis points by year end
to 3 percent, matching the 50-year low the benchmark reached at
the height of the global financial crisis. They see an 82
percent chance it will lower the overnight cash rate target by a
quarter percentage point at the Oct. 2 policy meeting.  The RBA also said the  International Monetary Fund  has
conducted a Financial Sector Assessment Program review that
confirms “Australia has a stable financial system, with robust
financial regulatory supervisory and management frameworks.”
The report, due out later this year, included stress tests that
showed domestic banks would likely withstand a severe economic
shock, the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  