-- Lawmakers’ Fight Over Heathrow Obscures Transport Woes: Freight
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/lawmakers-fight-over-heathrow-obscures-transport-woes-freight.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
is under political pressure as lawmakers battle over a potential
expansion of  Heathrow Airport , Europe’s busiest. For business,
that’s only one hurdle in lifting the U.K. from its status as
No. 14 among European countries in infrastructure.  About 60 percent of corporate rail-freight users aren’t 
satisfied with U.K. service, according to a survey released 
last week by the  Confederation of British Industry , the nation’s
biggest business lobby. A majority also said roads, ports and
rails are “below average” when compared internationally. The
 World Economic Forum  ranks Britain 24th globally for its roads,
22nd for air, 16th for rails and 12th for ports.  Increased spending on capital projects may help Britain’s
economy as it struggles to recover from a recession, while also
reducing the longer-term risk of freight bottlenecks once the
world gets back on a sound financial footing. More than 20
companies, including  Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY)  and  Carillion Plc (CLLN) , wrote
to the government in July asking for faster decision-making and
 new ways of financing  construction projects.  “Talk is cheap and the industry has become fairly tired of
empty promises,” said Joe Brent, an analyst at Liberum Capital
Ltd. in  London . “What everyone wants to see is orders and there
still isn’t a huge amount of evidence that the pipeline of
orders is opening up.”  The U.K., the world’s seventh-largest economy, came 24th in
terms of the quality of its overall infrastructure out of the
144 countries analyzed by the WEF, putting it behind Oman,
Barbados and  Saudi Arabia .  Switzerland  topped the list,
published Sept. 5, while  Germany  and  France ,  Europe ’s No. 1 and
No. 2 economies, came in fifth and ninth respectively.  Port Road  The CBI is asking the government to speed up tackling
congestion on a number of key roads, including the A14 highway
in east  England , the main freight route to the Port of
Felixstowe, Britain’s largest. Proposals to upgrade the road
have been repeatedly announced and delayed, with the current
 planned upgrades  not expected until at least 2018.  With the U.K. struggling to recover from a double-dip
recession, Cameron’s coalition government in late 2011
identified about 250 billion pounds ($406 billion) of
“priority” projects. At least 80 percent of the investment
should come wholly or partially from the private sector, the
plan said. The government hasn’t specified how the cost-sharing
will work or how its share will be financed.  KPMG LLP, which helped compile the CBI study, says the
amount needed is closer to 500 billion pounds.  ‘Very Bad’  “It’s bad, it’s very bad in the sense that it’s not fit
for purpose for business in the modern age,” British Chambers
of Commerce Director General John Longworth said of the
infrastructure network. “There’s urgency about this issue.”  Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander said on
Sept. 23 that he would set up a industry group to monitor the
progress of the national infrastructure plan.  In a sign of Britain attempting to catch up with its
European peers, the government gave the go-ahead in January for
the construction of a high-speed rail line linking London,
Birmingham and Manchester. The project, known as  High Speed Two ,
hasn’t been approved by Parliament or put out to bid.  The U.K. as of Nov. 1 had 113 kilometers of high-speed
railway, as well as 204 kilometers planned linked to HS2,
according to the  International Union of Railways , which defined
it as track that allowed trains to travel at least 250
kilometers per hour. France had 1,896 kilometers of such rail
lines with 2,826 kilometers under construction or planned, and
Germany had 1,285 kilometers and 1,048 kilometers respectively.  Structural Deficit  While Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may be reluctant to deviate from their goal of
eliminating the government’s structural deficit, Balfour Chief
Executive Office Ian Tyler says improving planning processes and
a decision on the future of how infrastructure projects will be
financed could help attract private money.  “We must not become complacent,” he said in an e-mail
response to questions. “Now is the key time to keep this
pressure on and to ensure that investors recognize projects will
be viable in the mid- and long-term, making infrastructure an
increasingly attractive investment proposition.”  The company, which is involved in the Crossrail project to
connect Heathrow Airport with the London’s West End and Canary
Wharf districts, said in July that its order book “remains
strong despite the continuing uncertainty around governments’
investment decisions.” Carillion said last month that “new
project opportunities in the U.K. await the final outcome of the
government’s review of the current private-finance initiative.”
They both spoke in statements.  Balfour Earnings  Balfour has gained 18 percent this year after first-half
earnings rose and as its exposure to the U.S. attracts
investors, Liberum Capital’s Brent said. Carillion has fallen 8
percent on margin pressure in U.K. construction and weakness at
the builder’s operations in the  Middle East , he said. Brent has
a “buy” rating on Balfour and a “sell” rating on Carillion.
The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  has risen about 5 percent.  Business leaders, airlines and some members of Cameron’s
Conservative Party have urged him to break a 2010 pledge and
build a third runway at Heathrow, which is operating at 98
percent capacity, arguing it would spur economic growth.  Cameron’s Liberal Democrat coalition partners voted at
their party conference last weekend for a policy of opposing the
expansion of London’s Heathrow, Stansted and Gatwick airports.
Cameron postponed a decision this month on airport expansion,
including a possible third runway at BAA Ltd.’s Heathrow until
after the next general election in 2015.  Cameron’s Conservatives hold their annual conference in
Birmingham, central England, starting Oct. 7. The opposition
 Labour Party , which has called for tax cuts and more spending on
infrastructure, meets Sept. 30.  With pressure on Britain’s transport system even as traffic
and freight volumes are damped by economic weakness, a recovery
will worsen the logjams, the chamber’s Longworth said.  “We can’t use economic constraints as a reason not to make
these kind of investments,” Nicola Walker, CBI’s head of
infrastructure, said in a telephone interview. “We can already
see it creaking now and now is the time we need to act.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  