-- Axa Outlook Reduced to Negative by Fitch on Lower Rates
-- B y   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-09-25T12:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/axa-outlook-reduced-to-negative-by-fitch-on-lower-rates.html
Axa SA (CS) , France’s largest insurer,
had its outlook lowered by  Fitch Ratings  to negative as  earnings 
are pressured by bond yields at near-record lows.  The outlook for the Paris-based company was cut from stable
on “concerns about the group’s ability to improve
profitability, notably in the context of low interest rates,”
the ratings firm said yesterday in a statement.  Falling yields for fixed-income securities have hurt
insurers’ investment income as proceeds from maturing bonds are
reinvested at lower rates. The yield on the 10-year government
bond in France has declined to 2.26 percent from about 3.14
percent at the end of last year. The yield on the 10-year  U.S.
Treasury  is at 1.69 percent, down from 1.88 percent.  Axa is expanding in  Asia , seeking 10 percent annual growth
in per-share operating earnings through 2015. Axa and  Allianz
SE , Europe’s biggest insurers, reported profits that beat
analysts’ estimates in the first half of the year, helped by
higher earnings at their life and health businesses.  Fitch said Axa’s operating profits have grown over four
years because of a more-favorable underwriting environment in
non-saving related businesses. Further improvement will be a
“major challenge” in the low-interest rate environment, the
ratings company said. Guillaume Borie, a spokesman for Axa,
declined to comment.  Life insurers are paying the price for guarantees made to
U.S. variable-annuity clients before 2008, when stock markets
were in the midst of a five-year rally and the yield on the 10-
year Treasury was more than 4 percent. Liabilities climbed as
yields dropped below 2 percent, making it harder for insurers to
generate returns to cover the obligations.  ‘Market Volatility’  Axa’s U.S. results are “volatile due to the company’s
variable annuity business, which has been impacted by low
 interest rates , equity market volatility, and lower-than-
expected lapses,” the ratings firm said. “Management’s steps
to reduce variable annuity risk and volatility will contribute
to more stable statutory earnings in the longer term.”  The Axa Equitable unit in the U.S. has said it plans to
offer a payment to clients who cancel their standalone
guaranteed death benefit riders on some contracts issued between
2002 and 2007.  The insurer declined 0.1 percent to 12.34 euros at 1:38
p.m. in Paris. It has advanced 23 percent this year, compared
with the 16 percent gain by insurance companies in the Bloomberg
World Insurance  Index. (BWINSU)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Pak in  New York  at 
 spak10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Reichl at   dreichl@bloomberg.net  