-- Bair Says Pandit Kept Citigroup Job With Geithner Support
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-09-26T16:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/bair-says-pandit-kept-citigroup-job-with-geithner-support.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  resisted  Sheila Bair ’s efforts to replace Vikram Pandit
as chief executive officer of Citigroup Inc. in early 2009,
according to her memoir of the financial crisis.  Pandit was “handpicked” to be CEO by former Citigroup
Chairman and ex-Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin , who is
Geithner’s “mentor and hero,” Bair wrote in “Bull by the
Horns.” That bond was probably the reason why Geithner warded
off her attempts to replace Pandit, she said.  “I assumed that was because of his relationship with Bob
Rubin,” Bair said today in an interview following an appearance
on Bloomberg Television. “Vikram had gotten his job with Bob
Rubin’s support. There was a close working relationship there
that troubled me.”  Bair, 58, who stepped down last year as chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., sought to replace Pandit with
Jerry Grundhofer, a  Citigroup (C)  director and ex-CEO of  U.S.
Bancorp (USB) , according to the book.  “I had been pushing hard for Grundhofer to replace Pandit,
and I believe Jerry would have stepped in if Tim had asked him
to,” Bair wrote. “But Tim would not take decisive action to
replace Bob Rubin’s handpicked choice for CEO, Vikram Pandit.”  ‘Weak Reputation’  Her pursuit of Pandit’s ouster came as he worked to repair
Citigroup after it took a $45 billion bailout in 2008. Pandit,
55, lacked commercial-banking experience while the company’s
management struggled to make decisions, Bair wrote. Geithner,
51, wanted to shield the bank from Bair rather than protecting
taxpayers from potential losses at New York-based Citigroup,
according to the book.  “Couldn’t we at least bring in an experienced commercial
banker to run the place, I asked,” Bair wrote. “Tim resisted,
offering a bone instead: that Vikram could hire some more
commercial bankers to work for him. I doubted that many senior
commercial bankers would be willing to work for Vikram, given
his weak reputation, but no one was going to buck Tim.”  Pandit has succeeded in turning the company around since
taking over during the financial crisis by paring assets and
restoring earnings, Mark Costiglio, a Citigroup spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Responsible Finance’  “Citi has executed a strategy based on returning to the
basics of banking and building a culture of responsible
finance,” Costiglio said. “Citi has built industry-leading
financial strength, reduced its non-core businesses and assets
by over $600 billion, and returned to profitability. It is a
simpler, smaller, safer and stronger institution than it was
five years ago and this record speaks for itself.”  Treasury converted $25 billion of bailout funds into an
equity stake in Citigroup in 2009. Taxpayers made a profit of
about $12 billion from the rescue as Geithner oversaw the
disposal of the shares the following year.  “It should be acknowledged that Treasury did sell those
shares at a profit -- a point repeatedly made to defend against
critics of Tim’s generous treatment of that institution,” Bair
wrote. “Of course, Tim did not know whether Treasury’s
investment would pay off at the time, and it still troubles me
that he could so readily subordinate the government’s interest
to those of private shareholders.”  Management Changes  Bair secured some management changes with help from Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , according to the book.
Grundhofer became head of the board that oversees  Citibank NA ,
the firm’s main banking subsidiary. Edward “Ned” Kelly, the
“combative” finance chief, was removed and replaced with  John Gerspach , who was respected by FDIC examiners, Bair wrote.  Costiglio, invited to respond on Kelly’s behalf, declined
to elaborate beyond Citigroup’s statement.  Grundhofer, 68, left the Citigroup board in June 2011 and
became non-executive chairman of the U.S. subsidiary of Madrid-
based  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s largest lender. Geithner was
head of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , one of Citigroup’s
regulators, before joining President  Barack Obama ’s Cabinet.  Suzanne Elio, a Treasury spokeswoman, declined to comment
on Bair’s assertions about Geithner. Bryan Hurst, a spokesman
for Santander’s Philadelphia-based Sovereign Bank unit, didn’t
return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment from
Grundhofer.  Credit Crisis  Bair’s 415-page book, released this week by Simon &
Schuster Inc., describes how she navigated the global credit
crisis that snowballed in 2008 with the emergency sale of Bear
Stearns Cos., the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
the rescue of financial firms including American International
Group Inc.  Bair joined  Neil Barofsky , the former inspector general of
the Troubled Asset Relief Program, in portraying Geithner as
being more concerned about the welfare of the biggest banks than
that of homeowners. Geithner told him that the administration’s
Home Affordable Modification Program was meant to “foam the
runway” for lenders, or stretch out foreclosures so that the
firms wouldn’t be overwhelmed, Barofsky wrote in his book.  “HAMP was a program designed to look good in a press
release, not to fix the housing market,” Bair wrote. Geithner
“didn’t seem to care about the political beating the president
took on the hundreds of billions of dollars thrown at the big-
bank bailouts and  AIG (AIG)  bonuses, but when it came to homeowners,
it was a very different story.”  ‘Wildly Inflated’  The government’s main program to prevent foreclosures was
overly complicated and doomed to fail because it required too
much paperwork and lacked oversight and enough financial
incentives, Bair wrote. Geithner dismissed Bair’s housing relief
plan and was determined to exclude her from helping administer
assistance programs, she wrote.  Bair cringed at Obama’s “wildly inflated” goal of helping
3 million to 4 million borrowers through HAMP, she wrote. The
program has resulted in 825,478 permanent modifications since
2009. Large banks were to blame for the results because they had
half the response rate of smaller firms, according to a paper
released last month by researchers from the  Federal Reserve Bank
of Chicago  and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Geithner has said he was “deeply offended” by accusations
that he has been overly sympathetic to  Wall Street . It’s the
result of an “urban myth” that he worked for  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  “rather than as a public servant, which is what I’ve
done with my life,” Geithner said in a July interview on the
“Charlie Rose” show broadcast on PBS and Bloomberg Television.  Geithner said yesterday that he probably won’t write a book
after leaving office.  “I’m not really the type to sit alone at a desk and write.
It’s not really my thing,” Geithner said in an interview with
Rose at the  Clinton Global Initiative  in  New York . “A lot of
people are telling my story.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 