-- Pakistan Completes Super Eight Lineup at World Twenty20 Cricket
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-09-26T01:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/bangladesh-wins-toss-bats-against-pakistan-in-world-twenty20.html
Pakistan beat Bangladesh by eight
wickets to complete the last eight lineup at cricket’s World
Twenty20 championship in  Sri Lanka .  Imran Nazir blasted 72 off 36 balls last night to help
propel Pakistan past the 176-run victory target with eight balls
to spare in Pallekele. Bangladesh had needed to win by at least
36 runs to overhaul its Group D opponent on net run rate and
advance to the Super Eight phase alongside  New Zealand .  Pakistan, the 2009 world champion in cricket’s newest and
shortest format, topped the group with four points after two
wins and next faces South Africa in two days in  Colombo .  “The best thing is that whatever role we assign to
players, they’re putting in maximum effort to do the job,”
Pakistan captain  Mohammad Hafeez  said on the tournament’s
website. “All 15 in our squad are match winners, and this team
is united in trying to do the best for Pakistan.”  The Super Eight phase starts tomorrow when tournament
favorite Sri Lanka plays New Zealand and defending champion
 England  faces West Indies in a double-header in Pallekele. India
and  Australia  meet in the following day’s second match.  The remaining eight teams at the 12-nation event are split
into two groups of four, with the top two in each advancing to
the semifinals. The final is scheduled Oct. 7 in Colombo.  Sri Lanka is the 4-1 favorite to win the title according to
U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes, with inaugural champion India and
 South Africa  both rated a 9-2 chance.  Fast Start  Bangladesh made quick progress after winning the toss and
batting first last night. Mohammad Ashraful was out for 14 and
Tamim Iqbal made 24 from 12 balls before being run out to leave
the score at 61-2 after six overs.  Shakib Al Hasan top scored with 84 off 54 balls and
Mushfiqur Rahim made 25 to help Bangladesh post 175-6 from its
20 overs. Pakistan bowler  Umar Gul  allowed 43-0 in three overs.  Pakistan opener Nazir was dropped by Abul Hasan off Shafiul
Islam’s when on one and made Bangladesh pay for the error,
hitting nine fours and three sixes in his hour-long innings and
sharing a 124-run stand with his captain, who made 45.  Nasir Jamshed, with 29 runs, and  Kamran Akmal  (22), then
steered Pakistan to 178-2 and the victory with an unbeaten 52-
run partnership.  “In one way this is my best innings, because I used my
brains,” Nazir said. “All my well-wishers tell me that if I
stay at the crease for 15 overs, the runs will automatically
come. I’m just trying to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  