-- Barclays Raises Euro Forecast Versus Dollar on Stimulus
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-25T19:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/barclays-raises-euro-forecast-versus-dollar-on-stimulus-1-.html
Barclays Plc raised its forecasts
for the euro against the dollar, citing central-bank measures
that have negatively affected the greenback and helped the
shared currency appreciate.  The bank expects the euro to reach $1.35 by the end of
2012, up from its previous forecast of $1.20, according to a
research report. Barclays also raised its six-month forecast for
the euro to $1.28 from $1.17 and its 12-month projection to
$1.22 from $1.15.  The London-based bank’s year-end forecast is higher than
the average estimate of $1.26, according to Bloomberg data. The
consensus year-end projection for the euro has increased from
$1.23 since the  Federal Reserve  announced a third round of asset
purchases on Sept. 13.  “The Fed easing and QE3 made us change our call,” Jose Wynne, head of North America foreign-exchange research for
Barclays’ investment banking unit in New York, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen. “They have made a very strong commitment going forward
saying that they will keep buying bonds. You should be selling
the dollar.”  The open-ended nature of the Fed’s planned debt purchases
will lead to uncertainty and weigh on the dollar, Barclays said.
The  European Central Bank ’s unlimited debt-buying program is
intended to make previous monetary easing decisions more
effective, which will be a positive for the 17-nation currency,
according to the firm.  “Of the major central banks, we judge the Fed’s move as
the most currency negative,” Barclays analysts wrote in a
global outlook released today. “Taking the Fed and ECB
decisions together, the rally in euro-dollar appears
appropriate.”  The dollar weakened 0.2 percent to $1.2912 per euro at 3:35
p.m.  New York  time. The greenback rose as much as 1 percent
against the euro on Sept. 20, its biggest gain in a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  