-- Barloworld Falls on Caterpillar Outlook: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-09-25T15:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/barloworld-falls-on-caterpillar-outlook-johannesburg-mover.html
Barloworld Ltd. (BAW) , the world’s
largest forklift dealer, dropped the most in almost two months
after  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s biggest construction and
mining equipment maker, cut its 2015 earnings forecast.  Shares of the Johannesburg-based company slid 3.4 percent,
the most since Aug. 3, to 74.38 rand by the close in
Johannesburg, after earlier falling as much as 4.6 percent.  Caterpillar said profit will be $12 to $18 a share,
compared with a previous projection of $15 to $20. Barloworld
makes about two-thirds of its earnings from distributing
Caterpillar equipment, according to Mark Hodgson, an analyst
with Avior Research (Pty) Ltd. This will increase after it
acquires additional distribution and support units in  South
Africa  and Botswana from the U.S. company, he said. Barloworld
agreed in May to buy the units for $175 million.  “They are certainly dependent on Caterpillar’s products
and a slowdown would certainly knock their order book,” Hodgson
said by phone from Cape Town. “There is a lot of concern over
commodity prices and global miners’ capex. Caterpillar hasn’t
got the same sort of confidence in its order book and I guess
that sort of read-through obviously creates slightly more
uncertainty.”  While a global recession remains possible, Caterpillar is
forecasting moderate and “anaemic” growth through 2015,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said
yesterday in a presentation to analysts at the MINExpo industry
conference in Las Vegas. Construction activity in  emerging
markets  will probably show modest improvements, he said.  Oberhelman has bet on a continuation of growth in commodity
demand by buying mining-equipment maker Bucyrus International
Inc. for $8.6 billion last year and agreeing in November to
acquire ERA Mining Machinery Ltd. in China. His plans are coming
under pressure as mining companies cut  capital expenditures 
after economic expansion slowed in China, the world’s largest
user of coal and metals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion at   sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  