-- Batista Asset Sales Raising Cash After Quarterly Losses
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-09-25T20:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/batista-asset-sales-raising-cash-after-losses-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista 
is selling the  best performing  of his six publicly traded
companies in an effort to raise cash after his commodities and
energy empire had a combined $458 million net loss in the second
quarter.  Batista, whose net worth plunged $12.5 billion since March
after delays at his oil startup triggered a stock selloff, is
negotiating to sell shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  to  Sete Brasil
Participacoes SA  in exchange for a stake in the oil-rig
contractor, according to two people with direct knowledge of the
matter. The talks follow an agreement to sell a 49 percent stake
in Batista’s AUX gold business to the Qatar Investment Authority
for about $2 billion, a person with knowledge of the transaction
told Bloomberg in June.  Batista, 55, has already announced four other divestures
this year as he slows the pace of expansion into mining and
energy across  Latin America  and focuses on raising the cash to
increase output at his existing companies. All six of Batista’s
traded companies had negative  cash flow  in the second quarter.  “He has a lot of projects, so the question now is of
funding for the projects he already has,” said Andre Castello
Branco, a partner of corporate finance at PriceWaterhouseCoopers
LLP. “The projects are getting bigger, so there needs to be
some sort of negotiations to raise that capital.”  EBX Group Co., the holding company for most of Batista’s
assets, denied the billionaire is in talks to sell OSX in an e-
mailed statement today.  OSX Gains  Rio de Janeiro-based OSX  rose  8.7 percent in Sao Paulo this
year, the only one of Batista’s companies to post gains in the
stock market, as it announced contracts to build vessels for
clients including  Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   Batista’s oil unit OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA fell
to a three-year low in June after cutting output estimates at
its first project by as much as 75 percent, triggering a selloff
at Batista’s other companies. OGX has declined 53 percent this
year, the worst performer on the benchmark Bovespa  index , which
is up 6.6 percent, while Batista’s iron-ore miner MMX Mineracao
& Metalicos SA  lost  21 percent and power utility  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) 
 declined  14 percent.  OSX  dropped  1.5 percent to 12.50 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo  today, while OGX dropped 2.9 percent, MMX fell 0.9 percent
and MPX lost 1.4 percent.  The deal with Sete Brasil would give Batista,  Brazil ’s
richest person, a better chance at scoring contracts for $27
billion in deep-water drilling vessels being ordered by
Petrobras, a minority shareholder in Sete Brasil.  Combine Operations  OSX and Sete Brasil would combine operations to provide
services to Petrobras, according to the people with direct
knowledge, who asked not to be identified because the matter is
private. Talks, which are in an early stage among Sete Brasil
shareholders and Batista, may not result in a deal, the people
said.  Sete Brasil said none of its directors are involved in
negotiating a merger, according to an e-mailed statement from
its press office.  A deal with OSX may not make sense because Sete Brasil was
created to act as a mediator between Petrobras and shipbuilders,
said  Adriano Pires , head of consulting firm Brazilian Center for
Infrastructure, or CBIE.  “From the moment that Sete Brasil buys part or all of OSX,
it will lose that feature because it will become the owner of a
shipyard,” he said in a telephone interview from Rio de
Janeiro. “Petrobras, as a partner at Sete, will also be a
partial owner of the shipyard.”  Eike’s Strategy  Batista is pursuing a strategy of finding partners to help
his companies reach their goals by providing funding and
expertise, said Dany Rappaport, who helps manage about 250
million reais at Investport in Sao Paulo.  “Sete Brasil’s partners are very strong, with an elevated
capacity for investments,” he said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “It’s not a change in Eike’s strategy.”  OSX’s press office declined to comment yesterday. Qatar
Investment Authority’s press office in Doha also wouldn’t
comment.  Batista’s net worth, which peaked at $34.5 billion on March
27, was $22 billion as of yesterday, making him the world’s 26th
richest man, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  daily
ranking. Batista raised about $6 billion in share sales in the
past six years and at least $4.1 billion in bond sales in
international markets since 2011.  ‘Good Outlook’  Batista this year sold stakes in EBX valued at $2.3 billion
to Mubadala Development Co. and General Electric Co. He also
completed deals with EON AG and International Business Machines
Corp., which acquired stakes in his electricity and technology
units. In June, he said he expected to find buyers for 30
percent to 50 percent of his coal unit  CCX Carvao da Colombia SA (CCXC3) 
by the end of the year after hiring Morgan Stanley to help find
a partner.  Sete Brasil Chief Executive Officer Joao Ferraz said on
Sept. 19  the company was close to raising 3.7 billion reais in
additional capital, boosting its total equity to 11.3 billion
reais. Banco BTG Pactual SA’s private-equity funds invested $1
billion in Sete Brasil, more than doubling their stake in the
oil-rig operator to 30 percent, four people with direct
knowledge of the deal said in August.  OSX, which is in talks to build 10 more vessels after
winning orders worth $7 billion, sees a “good outlook” for its
negotiations with Sete Brasil to provide drilling ships, Chief
Executive Officer Carlos Bellot said at a news conference in Rio
on Sept. 17.  The oil industry has enormous demand for drilling platforms
and a deal between OSX and Sete Brasil would help reduce the
risks for the companies involved in the projects, PwC’s Castello
Branco said.  “This increases the scale and helps reduce the risk for
everyone,” he said. Batista “always has something happening.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  