-- BBC Chief Wants More Wimbledon Night Matches, Less Grunting
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-09-26T11:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/bbc-chief-calls-for-more-wimbledon-night-matches-less-grunting.html
The British Broadcasting Corp.,
which has provided coverage of Wimbledon since 1927, wants more
nighttime tennis and less grunting during matches, according to
the head of the network’s sports group.  Matches at this year’s Wimbledon championships finished as
late as 11 p.m. with the retractable roof over Centre Court shut
as rain interrupted play almost daily in the first week. While
the weather gave tournament schedulers problems, it boosted
television ratings for the  BBC , the host broadcaster and U.K.
rights holder.  “It’s been very successful,” Barbara Slater, director of
BBC Sport, said yesterday in an interview. “Inevitably, when
play moves into the peak evening, audiences are higher.”  A fourth-round match between eventual finalist Andy Murray
of Britain and  Marcos Baghdatis  of Cyprus finished at 11:02 p.m.
local time, drawing a U.K. television audience of more than
8 million.  “It is safe to say that of course we as a broadcaster
would love more tennis, and for that tennis to extend, but we
are very aware there are constraints on the club,” said Slater,
who was in charge of the BBC’s Olympics coverage this summer.
“We have conversations with the All England Club, and they
evolve their strategy going forward.”  ‘No Plans’  “At this stage there are no plans,” to add night matches
to the schedule, said Johnny Perkins, a spokesman for the All
England Club, which organizes the annual tournament. “We stick
to what we are; an outdoor daytime event with the capacity to
play late if we need to.”  Nighttime tennis would mean “a huge re-think in
operational terms,” such as changes to people’s shift patterns
or transport, Perkins said.  Both the  U.S. Open  and Australian Open have evening
sessions, while the French Open is considering adding night
matches following the construction of a new stadium and
extension of its grounds by 2017.  Slater spoke in an interview in London after addressing the
Nolan Partners sport industry breakfast club about the BBC’s
Olympics coverage.  Although the BBC this year extended its broadcasting
agreement with Wimbledon until 2017, it didn’t show  Andy
Murray ’s U.S. Open victory. Instead, his win -- the first Grand
Slam singles title for a British man since 1936 -- was broadcast
in the U.K. on an outlet owned by British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc.  ‘Finite Income’  “Of course it is a shame, but we have to be realistic,”
Slater said. “We are operating in a very competitive
environment and we have finite income.”  The BBC, which is funded by an annual fee paid by all
television owners in the U.K., is priced out of the market on
some sports, including soccer, Slater said.  “We’re seeing those individual matches now command rights
fees of 6.5 million pounds,” she said. “That has got out of
reach of the license fee.”  Slater welcomed plans to tackle the issue of grunting in
tennis, which she said frequently draws negative feedback from
viewers.  The women’s WTA tennis tour in June said it’s working with
the  International Tennis Federation  and the four majors to
“drive excessive grunting” out of the sport. The WTA said it
is forming a “sport-wide plan” to stop future stars from
grunting by educating them and introducing rule changes.  ‘A Shame’  “It is a shame, and some of our audience clearly don’t
like that,” Slater said, when asked about excessive grunting by
some players during tennis matches.  “You want to see women athletes achieving the very highest
standards of play,” she said. “That is something that the
governing bodies have got to work with the players on, wanting
to be respectful of those players’ desire to play the game to
their very maximum. But equally, I think it’s very important
both for the crowd and the TV audiences that it doesn’t become
too distracting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the  London  sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  