-- Better Land Use a Priority for Second Obama Term, Vilsack Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-09-25T19:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/better-land-use-a-priority-for-second-obama-term-vilsack-says.html
The U.S. should focus on improving
how land resources are used to meet increased demand for food
and biofuels should President  Barack Obama  win a second term,
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  Global demand for food, combined with a desire to increase
trade and expand production of alternative fuels, means U.S.
agriculture needs to find additional uses for a greater range of
crops, Vilsack said in an interview for Bloomberg Television’s
“Conversations with  Judy Woodruff .” The program was taped
today and will run later this week.  “We’re not utilizing our landed resources as much as we
could,” Vilsack said. Getting more productivity from land,
partly by finding ways to rotate crops more efficiently, would
“actually aid conservation, conserve water” and “restore the
soil,” he said. It may also help create new feed stocks for
energy and bio-based products and “take some of the pressure
off of corn,” the biggest U.S. crop, which is used to make most
of the country’s ethanol, he said.  The USDA forecast this year’s corn crop will be the
smallest since 2006 because of the worst drought in more than
five decades, even after farmers sowed the most acres with the
grain since 1937. About two-fifths of the harvest will be used
to make ethanol to fulfill a federal mandate.  Vilsack also said it may be difficult for Congress to pass
a new agriculture bill when lawmakers return to  Washington  after
the November elections, leaving farmers uncertain of the shape
of federal programs that affect what crops they plant. Current
law expires Sept. 30.  ‘More Complex’  “We’re actually expecting people who haven’t been able to
make the tough decisions for the last two years to come back in
a relatively short period of time” and make decisions on tax
cuts and reductions to federal programs, he said. “This makes
it much more complex and much more difficult to get the focus
and attention and the time necessary.”  Without a farm bill, agricultural legislation will revert
to provisions passed in 1949. Subsidies to dairy producers will
stop next week, as well as support for trade initiatives,
Vilsack said. Eventually, there would be a full reversion to the
policies of the 1940s.  If that happens, the secretary of agriculture would be
given enormous powers, “and, frankly, I don’t think anybody
wants that” Vilsack joked.  The farm bill, last passed in 2008, funds federal nutrition
programs including  food stamps , the USDA’s single biggest
expense, as well as subsidies to farmers that lower raw-
materials costs for companies including  Archer Daniels Midland
Co. (ADM)  and  Bunge Ltd. (BG)   In response to a question, Vilsack declined to say whether
he would return as agriculture secretary in a second Obama
administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  