-- Biggest English Polluter Spends $1 Billion to Burn Wood
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-09-26T10:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/biggest-english-polluter-spends-1-billion-to-burn-wood-energy.html
More than two centuries after coal
power helped forge the world’s first industrial economy, Britain
is going back to burning wood.  Drax Group Plc (DRX)  will spend $1 billion to turn the U.K.’s
biggest coal-fired plant into western  Europe ’s largest clean-
energy producer. The utility plans to convert one of the site’s
six units to burn wood pellets by June, said Chief Executive
Officer Dorothy Thompson. It intends to switch two more units to
wood at a later date, investments that if completed will see it
harvest a forest four times the size of  Rhode Island  each year.  “We see a key part of our future as converting from
essentially a coal station to a biomass station,” Thompson said
in an interview in London. “It will take Drax from being the
largest carbon emitter by site in the U.K. to being, probably,
one of the largest renewable plants in the world.”  Drax jumped as much as 13.9 pence, or 2.7 percent, to 522
pence in London. The stock, which began trading without the
right to a 14.4-pence dividend today, was up 0.6 percent at 511
pence as of 10:55 a.m. local time, making it the only company to
rise on the  STOXX 600 Utilities Index. (SX6P)   Drax joins  Germany ’s  RWE AG (RWE)  and Dong Energy A/S of  Denmark 
in taking coal-fed plants away from fossil fuels as they strive
to meet European Union air-pollution rules and avoid greenhouse-
gas costs. The companies’ success or failure may map out a
future for coal-fueled plants globally in a carbon-cutting age.  Most Polluting  Coal, the most polluting fossil fuel, generates about 41
percent of the world’s electricity, while biomass accounts for
1.4 percent, according to the  International Energy Agency .  Drax plans to spend as much as 700 million pounds ($1.13
billion) through 2017 upgrading its boilers at Selby, northern
 England , ordering millions of tons of biomass from around the
world and building facilities to store the fuel, including four
silos each bigger than  London ’s Royal Albert Hall, a 135-foot
(41-meter) high concert venue with an 800-foot circumference.  The utility has hired farmers and foresters, designed
special railway carriages and is investigating building wood
pellet plants in  North America , Thompson said.  While burning biomass releases carbon dioxide, the EU deems
the technology carbon-neutral because trees absorb emissions in
a similar proportion to what they release in burning. Opponents
argue that it’s hard to ensure enough is being planted to
compensate for what is burned.  Growing Back  “Most companies and governments completely ignore the
carbon-dioxide emissions from burning, because they say new
trees will grow back and absorb all the carbon again,” said
Almuth Ernsting, director of campaigning group Biofuelwatch.
“In reality, it takes minutes to burn a tree and many decades
for a new tree to grow back and absorb all the carbon again.”  The conversion of whole units to burn biomass marks a
significant shift for Drax, which until July publicly said it
was focused on ramping up volumes gradually over the next two
decades, burning biomass with coal, a process known as co-
firing.  The emphasis changed earlier this year when the government
confidentially requested the industry’s view on full conversion.  “We decided the government must be looking at that quite
seriously if they were going to ask for people’s opinions on
it,” Thompson said. As a result, Drax carried out undisclosed
trials to see how a unit would react to burning “exceptionally
high” levels of biomass, she said.  Stock Reaction  When the government on July 25 announced incentives that
rewarded full biomass conversion over co-firing, the company’s
 shares  plunged 25 percent, with investors still unaware of
Drax’s trials. The stock recovered some of its value after the
executive team outlined the new strategy on a call with analysts
later that day. Drax closed last month at 466 pence, still down 
10 percent from July 24.  “It was a really incredibly difficult and delicate
situation,” Financial Director Tony Quinlan said. “We were not
in a position whereby we could give the market some information
to say that these unit trials were taking place because it would
breach the government confidentiality.”  Drax’s current generating capacity is about 4,000
megawatts. If the conversion of half that yields 2,000 megawatts
of biomass capacity, it would place Drax on a par with the
biggest hydropower plants in the EU, and larger than any
existing biomass plant, wind farm or solar park. Drax declined
to comment about whether the converted units will replicate the
existing capacity.  Interesting Investment  Drax is “an interesting investment at the current price,
but there has to be a leap of faith here,” Dominic Nash, an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd., said in a telephone interview.
“They constructed a story to suit where they found themselves.
This will notably impact their share price for next 18 months.”  Nash estimates Drax’s profit before tax will drop to 204
million pounds in 2018 from 248.3 million pounds in 2011.
Earnings will probably rise through the end of the decade as
biomass becomes increasingly profitable, he said. The company
had 233 million pounds in cash at the half year and a 100
million-pound debt facility to fund its conversion program.  Thompson, who began at Drax seven years ago -- a year after
the plant first burned biomass -- is determined to prove the
company can overcome the technical risks and regain the trust of
investors. Wood pellets are bulkier than coal, need to be kept
dry and handled more gently. They can create dust if stored in
the open. To deal with this, Drax is building silos out of
plastics, foam, steel and concrete, with conveyor floors and
capable of holding 700,000 metric tons of biomass.  Modify Mills  “There’s a need to modify the mills and some parts of the
boiler, but not the same scale of capital cost relative to the
other infrastructure and supply-chain investments we need to
make,” Thompson said. Each unit will burn about 2.3 million
tons of biomass annually, meaning the company will need to
source 7.5 million tons of biomass by 2017.  Drax isn’t alone in seeking to convert from coal to
biomass. RWE last year turned its 1,131-megawatt Tilbury
facility into a 750-megawatt plant running on wood pellets.  Dong
Energy , Denmark’s state-controlled utility, said in April that
it plans to invest about 500 million pounds to convert three of
its coal- and gas-fired power plants to burning the pellets.  A typical tree plantation produces about 1 million tons of
wood from 200,000 acres annually, enough to make about 500,000
tons of biomass pellets, according to RWE. Using those numbers,
Drax’s annual requirement for 7.5 million tons of biomass by
2017 would need plantations totaling 3 million acres. That’s
more than four times the size of Rhode Island.  Plant Design  It’s a challenge, given that collection systems are
nascent, pellet plants too small and port facilities lacking.
Drax is designing its biomass storage and conveyor belts in a
way to minimize the risk of fire. A blaze at a wood-storage
facility in February halted generation at Tilbury for four
months.  As much as 30 percent of the branches, bark and thinned
trees that Drax is burning is considered waste and left to rot,
Thompson said. The company has secured enough material to supply
its first unit and is “confident” of getting enough for the
second, due online in 2014, according to Thompson. Drax is
working on a strategy for the third unit, which will be
converted at a later, undisclosed date, she said.  The process also has to be environmentally sustainable.
Drax emits at least 70 percent less carbon burning biomass than
it does burning coal, Thompson said. Companies burning biomass
don’t need to buy carbon credits to offset their emissions under
the EU Emissions Trading System as the fuel is considered
carbon-neutral.  Carbon Emissions  Drax’s plant had more than 21 million tons of carbon
dioxide output last year, the fourth-highest of any installation
in the EU, according to EU-ETS data compiled by Bloomberg. Even
after eliminating half those emissions, the station would remain
the biggest single emitter in the U.K. and one of the 15 largest
in the 27-nation bloc.  While controversy may exist, biomass will play a critical
role in meeting Britain’s climate-change targets and maintaining
the nation’s power supply, Thompson said. About half of
Britain’s coal-fired plants are scheduled to close by 2016 and
all the nation’s nuclear reactors are due to shut by 2035. The
amount of electricity generated by coal-fired stations today is
just under 50 percent of the total.  Drax generates about 8 percent of the nation’s electricity
burning mostly coal, meaning in 2017 about 4 percent of the
country’s power will come from burning wood pellets if all goes
to plan. That will be baseload generation, capable of producing
power 80 to 90 percent of the time, unlike wind farms, which are
more variable, Thompson said.  “A lot of the infrastructure and capital is already
there,” Drax’s Quinlan said. “The beauty of it is you’re
taking something that exists already. You’re modifying very
efficient coal-fired power stations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  