-- Biglari Agrees to Antitrust Fine in Cracker Barrel Deal
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-09-25T23:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/biglari-agrees-to-antitrust-fine-in-cracker-barrel-deal.html
Biglari Holdings Inc. (BH) , a chain-
restaurant operator, agreed to pay $850,000 to settle procedural
antitrust violations stemming from its purchase of shares in
 Cracker Barrel Old Country Store Inc. (CBRL)   U.S. antitrust regulators alleged Biglari violated
premerger reporting laws in connection with its 2011 acquisition
of a stake in the Lebanon, Tennessee-based restaurant and gift
shop operator. Businesses run by San Antonio-based Biglari
Holdings include Steak ‘n Shake and Western Sizzlin restaurant
chains.  Under reporting requirements for mergers, companies must
notify antitrust regulators about transactions exceeding $68.2
million. The law, the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements
Act, contains an exemption for acquisitions made solely for
investment purposes.  “Biglari improperly failed to report the transaction to
U.S. antitrust authorities by claiming the purchases were a
‘passive’ investment when, in reality, Biglari intended to
become actively involved in the management of  Cracker Barrel ,”
the U.S. Federal Trade Commission said in an e-mailed statement.  The complaint for civil penalties was filed by the  Justice
Department  because the FTC doesn’t have the authority to fine.  Biglari in a statement disputed the FTC’s claims, saying
that the company filed for Hart-Scott-Rodino approval in August
2011.  ‘Investment Intent’  “The comments made by the FTC mischaracterize Biglari
Holdings’ investment intent,” according to the statement.
“Biglari Holdings has made clear in all of its public filings
that it has no intention of becoming actively involved in day-
to-day management or in seeking control of the Board of Cracker
Barrel.”  Biglari Holdings had acquired almost 9 percent of Cracker
Barrel’s outstanding voting shares by June 2011, according to
the complaint. Biglari Holdings continued to acquire shares
through June 13, 2011, exceeding the threshold for antitrust
filings, which was $66 million at the time.  Cracker Barrel, which has about 620 locations, has been
fighting off attempts from Biglari to gain a seat on the dining
chain’s board of directors and push for management and strategy
changes. Earlier this month, Cracker Barrel said that Biglari
Holdings rejected its offer to appoint two independent
directors.  Biglari Holdings will nominate Chairman Sardar Biglari and
the company’s vice chairman, Philip L. Cooley, for Cracker
Barrel’s board at the company’s annual meeting Nov. 15. If a
proxy contest ensues, “our business could be adversely
affected,” Cracker Barrel said today in a company filing.  ‘Our Concerns’  “Our concerns about Mr. Biglari’s intentions are
underscored by the finding that Biglari Holdings violated the
Hart-Scott-Rodino act in connection with its acquisition of
cracker barrel stock,” a Cracker Barrel spokesman said in an e-
mail.  The case is U.S. v. Biglari Holdings Inc., 1:12-cv-01586,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
 Leslie Patton  in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  