-- Blackwood Seeks to Wind Up Tinkler’s Mulsanne to Recoup Debt
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-09-25T04:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/blackwood-seeks-to-wind-up-tinkler-s-mulsanne-to-recoup-debt-1-.html
Blackwood Corp. (BWD) , controlled by
commodity trader Noble Group Ltd., said its seeking to wind up
Mulsanne Resources Pty, a company associated with Australian
mining magnate Nathan Tinkler, to recover debts.  Blackwood has started court proceedings, aiming to appoint
a liquidator to help recover money that it says Mulsanne owes
under a share purchase agreement, the Brisbane-based company
said today in a statement.  Mulsanne in May agreed to invest A$28.4 million ($29.6
million) for a 34 percent stake in Blackwood, which is
developing coal mines in Queensland state. Blackwood said Aug.
14 Mulsanne hadn’t paid for the shares. The case follows legal
action by  Mirvac Group (MGR)  over a failed property deal, after two
companies owned by Tinkler failed to complete a land purchase in
Newcastle, New South Wales.  A hearing at New South Wales Supreme Court in Sydney is
scheduled for Nov. 6, Martin Debelle, of Citadel Communications,
an external spokesman for Blackwood, said in a phone interview.
Mulsanne Resources is associated with the Tinkler Group,
according to Blackwood’s statement.  Tim Allerton, a Sydney-based spokesman for Tinkler,
declined to comment on legal cases. He also declined to comment
on a report in the Australian Financial Review that Tinkler may
try to seize control of Whitehaven’s board. Tinkler Group is a
closely-held company led by  Nathan Tinkler , the largest
shareholder in  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , according to its website.  Tinkler, an electrician-turned-miner, whose other
investments include horse stud farms and rugby league team the
Newcastle Knights, scrapped a A$5.3 billion offer for Whitehaven
last month. He may be preparing to gain control of Whitehaven’s
board by voting out certain directors, the Australian Financial
Review reported today in its Street Talk column, without saying
where it got the information.  Horse auction house Magic Millions will sell 202 of
Tinkler’s breeding mares on Oct. 30 on Queensland’s Gold Coast,
according to Magic Millions’ website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  