-- Japan and China Fail to Ease Tensions Over Island Dispute
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-25T10:53:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/boats-from-taiwan-and-china-near-islands-disputed-by-japan-1-.html
Diplomats from  China  and Japan
failed to ease tensions over a territorial dispute as the
Japanese Coast Guard used water cannons to drive off Taiwanese
vessels near the islands at the center of the spat.  Japan’s move this month to buy the islands was “blatantly
illegal,” China’s Vice Foreign Minister Zhang Zhijun told
Japanese counterpart Chikao Kawai today in Beijing, according to
a Chinese Foreign Ministry statement. While the two sides agreed
to more discussions, Kawai said no consensus was reached to hold
a foreign ministers’ meeting this week at the  United Nations
General Assembly  in New York,  Kyodo News  reported.  The meeting was the first since protests in China last week
damaged operations for Japanese companies such as  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  and Aeon Co. Japan’s purchase of the islands, known as
Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, exacerbated the worst
diplomatic crisis since 2005, which has threatened a $340
billion trade relationship between Asia’s two biggest economies.  About 50 Taiwanese fishing boats and patrol vessels left
waters administered by Japan after the Japanese Coast Guard
fired water cannons at them this morning, the Coast Guard said
in a statement. Five Chinese government boats were also spotted
in or near what Japan calls its “contiguous zone,” according
to a separate statement.  “We will continue to guard the area around the Senkakus
intensely and remain in contact with the relevant agencies,”
Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura told reporters today in
 Tokyo . The clash between the Coast Guard and the Taiwanese boats
was broadcast on NHK Television.  Carrier Commissioned  Also today, China formally commissioned its first  aircraft
carrier  at a ceremony in the port city of Dalian that was
attended by President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao . The
carrier will enhance China’s war-fighting and defense
capabilities and “promote international peace and common
development,” the  Defense Ministry  said in a statement.  Cheng Yonghua, China’s ambassador to Japan, said today he
is “deeply worried” about deteriorating relations and hopes
Japan’s government will abide by existing agreements between the
two countries.  “We are committed to work to clear the obstacles and keep
the healthy development in bilateral relations with all parties
concerned,” he said at a banquet being held in Tokyo to
commemorate China’s National Day on Oct. 1.  ‘Serious Violation’  Separately,  Japan ’s de facto envoy to  Taiwan  visited Taipei
today to discuss the dispute over the East China Sea islands
claimed by all three governments. Tadashi Imai is president of
Japan’s Interchange Association, which represents the Japanese
government in Taiwan in the absence of formal diplomatic
relations.  Fujimura said the situation with Taiwan should be dealt
with “calmly” to ensure good relations continue. He said
yesterday the government protested “at a high diplomatic
level” after Chinese vessels entered the waters.  Zhang told Kawai that Japan had ignored China’s protests in
buying the islands, a move he called “a serious violation of
historical facts and international jurisprudence,” according to
the Foreign Ministry statement.  The last time senior Japanese and Chinese officials met was
Sept. 9, when Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  discussed
the island issue briefly with Hu on the sidelines of the Asia
Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in Vladivostok, Russia. Hu
told Noda that any Japanese move to buy the islands would be
considered “illegal and invalid,” according to a statement on
the Chinese Foreign Ministry website.  Noda’s government reached a deal to purchase the islands
from a private Japanese owner on Sept. 11.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  