-- BofA Sued by Fair Housing Group Over Minority Neighborhood Decay
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-09-25T22:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/bofa-sued-by-fair-housing-group-over-minority-neighborhood-decay.html
Bank of America Corp ., the second-
largest U.S. lender, engages in a “systemic practice” of
failing to maintain foreclosed properties in minority
neighborhoods, according to a nonprofit group’s complaint.  The National Fair Housing Alliance’s complaint, filed today
with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, said
that properties owned by the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
bank in eight cities were allowed to accumulate trash, had
broken windows and other forms of vandalism, and lacked signage
that could invite purchase offers.  “Our investigation shows that Bank of America continues to
disregard its real-estate-owned homes in communities of color,”
Shanna Smith, president of the National Fair Housing Alliance in
 Washington , said in a statement. “Bank of America has been on
notice of its failure to maintain REOs since the summer of 2009,
yet has made no improvement in addressing racial disparities in
the maintenance and marketing” of the homes.  Bank of America joins U.S. Bancorp in being targeted by
suits from the HUD-funded nonprofit over claims it neglects
bank-owned homes in minority communities. The Obama
administration has boosted scrutiny of banks to discourage loan
discrimination after the housing bust led to record defaults.  “We strongly deny their allegations and stand behind our
property maintenance and marketing practices,”  Dan Frahm , a
Bank of America spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Bank of America
is committed to stabilizing and revitalizing communities that
have been impacted by the economic downturn, foreclosures and
property abandonment.”  Derrick L. Plummer, a HUD spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call seeking comment.  -- Editors: Steven Crabill, Peter Eichenbaum  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  