-- Cargill Says Grain Rally Means No Food Shortage
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-09-26T13:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/cargill-says-grain-rally-means-no-food-shortage.html
Cargill  Inc. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Greg Page  says the surge in crop prices during
the worst U.S. drought in 56 years will encourage farmers to
increase production for 2013.  “While there is a lot of gnashing of teeth and wringing of
hands around price, the positive is that it is a signal to the
world’s suppliers to intensify the way they produce our food
next year,” Page, 61, said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in  New York  yesterday. “Price can be a good thing
if the goal is to produce enough calories and enough protein to
feed everyone.''  Global food  production this year measured by calories
likely will be 2 percent less than what was expected at the
start of 2012, Page said. Lower forecasts for corn output in the
U.S., the biggest grower and exporter, pushed futures to a
record $8.49 a bushel on Aug. 10 in Chicago. The most immediate
farmer response to the U.S. drought may be with expanded
harvests in  South America , particularly  Brazil , Page said.  Prices are above the cost of production, which creates an
incentive to plant more, Page said. Currently, corn futures for
delivery in December 2013 are trading more than a $1 lower than
the $7.40-a-bushel cost of grain to be delivered this December.  “We can grow a lot of food at these prices,” Page said.  U.S. Drought  Cargill, the largest closely held U.S. company, dominates
the U.S. grain market along with Archer Daniels Midland Co. and
 Bunge Ltd. (BG)  The Minneapolis-based company was founded in 1865 and
employs about 140,000 people around the world to produce and
trade food and other commodities.  Corn and soybeans have rallied to records since mid-June as
damage from the hot, dry U.S. summer became evident. After
initially forecasting a record corn crop, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  cut its estimates three months in a row. Its most
recent prediction is 10.7 billion bushels this season, the
smallest in six years.  The effects from higher food prices are being felt from
 Mumbai  to Mexico City. U.S. hog farmers are slaughtering animals
at the fastest pace since 2009 as a surge in feed costs spurs
the biggest losses in 14 years.  In times such as these, governments start asking whether
self-sufficiency will lead to food security, Page said.  Food Security  So far there hasn’t been a repeat of  Russia ’s ban on grain
exports that ran for 10 months through July 2011, or  India ’s
2010 halt on wheat sales. Erecting trade barriers isn’t the
answer, Page said.  “The definition of  food security  needs to be couched in
the aggregate and everybody needs to do what they do best and
trade with each other,” Page said. “It’s not always an easy
message to carry.”  Page joined Cargill in 1974 and has worked at the company’s
operations in Thailand and Kansas as well as its financial
markets group in  Minneapolis . A graduate of the University of
 North Dakota , he became chairman and CEO in 2007.  Some of what he’s advocating can already be seen in the
corn market, where some countries are stepping in and increasing
exports as estimates for the U.S. crop shrink. “Modest”
amounts of corn are now coming into the U.S. from Brazil while
sorghum is arriving from  Argentina , Page said.  Brazil Boost  Brazil, the third-largest producer of corn, boosted exports
to a record 2.76 million tons in August from 1.52 million tons a
year earlier,  government data show . Its corn harvest may climb
29 percent this year, the United Nations Food and Agriculture
Organization said Sept. 19.  The country is also set to surpass the U.S. as the biggest
soybean grower. Its soybean crop may be 23 percent bigger than
last season, Hamburg-based researcher Oil World said last week.  Africa is another region that can step in with higher  food
production  in the years ahead, according to the Cargill CEO. He
cited the example of Zambia, where “remarkable” productivity
gains have taken place in less than a decade because farmers
have benefited from higher prices and economic growth driven by
the country’s copper mines.  Cargill’s profit from continuing operations fell 56 percent
in the year through May 31, a decline blamed by the company on
its trading and narrower margins in soybean and beef processing.
Reporting the earnings in August, Page said Cargill’s
performance didn’t match its expectations.  ‘Worst May’  It had “the worst May in the history of Cargill,” partly
because it was caught out by the drop in corn that month that
preceded its rally to a record, Page said yesterday. Corn
futures slumped in May after U.S. farmers planted the most acres
since 1937 and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis intensified.  “The risk-off trade just swamped every other piece of
analytic we had done,” he said.  While speculative investors can be blamed for that kind of
short-term price volatility, their impact over three to five
years is minimal, Page said.  “There are a lot of politicians who say speculators unduly
influence the price of food,’” he said. “I don’t subscribe to
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  