-- McDonald’s Wants to Know Whether Its Beef Is Sustainable
-- B y   A g n e s   T e h
-- 2012-09-25T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/mcdonald-s-wants-to-know-whether-its-beef-is-sustainable.html
Energy is “the big kahuna,” for McDonald’s Corp., the world’s biggest
restaurant chain, according to Bob Langert, its vice president of
sustainability. With the fast-food restaurant’s global annual energy bill
estimated at $2 billion, it’s looking at everything from simple fixes, such as
using more energy-efficient LED light bulbs, to complex, systemic changes --
working with Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the WWF and the National Cattlemen’s Beef
Association to rethink livestock-raising practices and its global food supply
chain. Here’s an excerpt from Langert’s interview in Bloomberg’s  Clean
Energy & Carbon Brief : Q: How has sustainability evolved over the years at McDonald’s? 
 A: This trend of the global consumer really wanting to know where their food
comes from is something that wasn’t the case 10-20 years ago. Sustainability is
everybody’s business now -- that’s the main message. My team works with our
leadership and all the other functional department heads. If we’re going to be
sustainable, it comes from all the other departments and all the other leaders
making it a part of what they do. Q: Several industries are writing voluntary standards that define what
sustainability should mean to companies. Where are you in buying food from
verifiably sustainable sources? A: That’s a mighty task. With some
products [like beef], there’s not even a definition for what sustainable is. We
want to use our size and influence to work with the industry and NGOs to come up
with definitions of sustainable beef. Ultimately we want to scale the very best
practices. Q: What have you learned from looking at the full life cycle of the beef
you buy? A: We have studied our CO2 footprint and supply chain. We’ve
not published our data yet because it’s awfully complicated. Roughly speaking,
our 33,500 restaurants are one third of our CO2 footprint. The other two thirds
are in supply chain, which largely comes from livestock. The biggest
sustainability impact is the raising of the cattle in the fields and ranches,
which is about three to four steps removed from McDonald’s. 
 Can we say we’re buying any sustainable beef today? No, we can’t. Could we be
buying sustainable beef? We might be. What I mean by that is that there are no
standards, measures, accountability and traceability to make those claims
today. Q: Is locally sourced food more environmentally friendly? A: From
all the studies that I’ve seen – to say that local always means more efficient –
I don’t believe that’s the case. We’ve done our analysis of transportation
impacts. It’s one of the smallest slices there is, in terms of our own profile.
Sometimes it can be more efficient to do it elsewhere and use transportation to
move it somewhere else because the production is more efficient. For instance,
I’m in the U.S., so we’re looking to buy within the U.S. You’re only going to
get potatoes, beef, and lettuce in certain parts of the country. To us, that’s
buying locally. Q: How much McDonald’s do you eat a week? A: I like a variety of
McDonald’s every day. I’m very passionate about food and nutrition. I believe
McDonald’s can be a very healthy lifestyle. I love to be healthy and I love the
variety. I love that I can have a wonderful grilled chicken salad today, and a
quarter pounder with cheese tomorrow or a grilled chicken. I tend to take the
mayonnaise off of it. I have it all and balance it out. I think our company does
a great job of providing balance and choices. Q: What’s the company’s cafeteria like? A: It’s a McDonald’s
restaurant. We go to lunch here on the third floor. We might have new items from
time to time. Otherwise it’s like a normal restaurant. Teh is assistant editor of the  Bloomberg  Clean Energy & Carbon
Brief . Visit  www.bloomberg.com/sustainability  for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business.  