-- Jim Chanos Says Apple Shares Have Risen Too Far, Too Fast
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-09-25T14:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/chanos-shorting-natural-gas-companies-wouldn-t-own-treasuries.html
Jim Chanos , who oversees $6 billion
as the founder and president at Kynikos Associates Ltd., said
he’s skeptical on Apple Inc. after the shares surged 71 percent
this year.  Chanos prefers owning  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to hedge wagers on
declines in companies such as Hewlett-Packard Co., he said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. The money manager, who rose to fame shorting Enron Corp.,
said he’s shorting natural gas stocks and wouldn’t own
Treasuries.  “We’re getting afraid of heights,” Chanos said about
Apple’s share price. “It has had an enormous run. Something
about it is holding us back in that it’s had such a run.”  Apple (AAPL) , the world’s most valuable company, reached a record
$702.10 a share on Sept. 19. Analysts estimate profit at the
iPad and iPhone maker may jump 60 percent in 2012 and increase
20 percent in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Microsoft shares have rallied 19 percent in 2012. The
company’s Surface tablet, designed to combat Apple’s lead in the
market, will go on sale later this year. The device will
probably be cheaper than the iPad, Chanos said. Earnings at the
 world’s largest software maker  increased 3.4 percent in 2012 and
are estimated to jump 11 percent next year, based on analyst
projections tracked by Bloomberg.  Chanos sees more losses in natural gas producers after the
stocks rebounded, he said at the  Clinton Global Initiative  in
New York. A  measure  of oil and gas producers in the  S&P 500  has
rallied 17 percent from a low on June 4. He said U.S. government
bonds may decline as the  Federal Reserve  starts a third round of
asset purchases to boost economic growth.  “You’re taking an awful lot of principal risk for very
little reward,” Chanos said about Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  