-- Chevron Under EPA Probe for Avoiding Refinery Monitors in 2009
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-09-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/chevron-under-epa-probe-for-avoiding-refinery-monitors-in-2009.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , which paid $170,000
to settle California pollution allegations at a refinery, may
face more penalties including prison sentences for employees
stemming from a federal investigation of the case.  The Environmental Protection Agency is investigating
actions at the company’s Richmond, California, refinery after
local officials in 2009 determined that pollution controls were
bypassed, according to company and local officials.  The  Bay Area  Air Quality Management District, which
enforces air-pollution rules in nine counties near  San
Francisco , discovered Chevron employees routed gas emissions
around monitoring equipment then burned off the excess,
violating local rules. The agency forced the company to end the
practice it said was used at least 27 times in four years, said
Wayne Kino, the district’s enforcement manager. Chevron paid a
$170,000  penalty  to settle the agency’s civil case.  “It now appears that EPA has chosen to take that case” as
a criminal prosecution, Kino said yesterday in an interview.
“There are indications that they are investigating, but they
don’t talk about it.”  A flaring system is used in emergencies to eliminate gases
that could be increasing to dangerous levels, Kino said.
Refineries had been flaring gas for routine maintenance before
the local air quality board imposed standards in 2004, he said.  A criminal prosecution might mean further fines or even
jail time for employees involved at the Richmond refinery. A
total of 249 individuals or companies were charged last year
after an EPA criminal investigation. Agency  prosecutions  last
year resulted in sending violators to prison for 89.5 years and
fines of $35 million.  ‘Currently Cooperating’  The EPA doesn’t comment on pending investigations, Alisha
Johnson, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in an e-mail.  “We are currently cooperating with the government’s
investigation,”  Sean Comey , a Chevron spokesman, said in an e-
mail. The company estimates total emissions identified by the
state agency at about 200 pounds of sulfur dioxide, compared
with total sulfur-dioxide emissions in the Bay Area of 25
million pounds annually.  “This was certainly not done intentionally,” Comey said
yesterday during a news conference at the refinery called to
discuss an unrelated Aug. 6 fire there. “Safety and protecting
people and the environment is one of our core values as a
company and we take that responsibility very seriously.”  The refinery resolved the issue three years ago  by
rerouting a pipe through a metered system, Nigel Hearne, manager
of the Richmond plant, said during the news conference. He
described the pipe as an “equalization line” that helps
control pressure buildup at the refinery.  The August fire injured five workers and forced the company
to shut a unit at the Richmond plant.  Chevron said yesterday that it suspects that a
phenomenon known as sulfidation corrosion caused a pipe to
rupture and led to the fire. The refinery is inspecting all
similar pipes and has found at least one that must be replaced,
Hearne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  