-- Chicago Symphony Settlement Allows Carnegie Hall Gala
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-09-25T18:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/chicago-symphony-settlement-allows-carnegie-hall-gala.html
The season-opening gala is safe at
 New York ’s  Carnegie Hall , as musicians and management of the
Chicago Symphony Orchestra reached a tentative deal Monday night
to end a two-day strike.  The 101 orchestra musicians, all members of the  Chicago
Federation of Musicians, Local 10-208 , this morning approved the
contract, said Rachelle Roe, a Chicago Symphony Orchestra
Association spokesman.  “As soon as we coordinate the board vote, we expect we
will have ratification,” Roe said.  Details of the accord weren’t released in a joint statement
by the CSO and the union.  One of the nation’s most highly regarded orchestras, the
CSO is to play for Carnegie Hall’s opening night celebration on
Oct. 3 as well as the following two nights.  Stephen Lester , a double-bass player and chairman of the
negotiating committee, said on Sunday the strike was called
because musicians objected to the increase in their health care
contributions. In a release on Sunday, the union said management
proposed total compensation that would have been 5 percent below
the top-paid U.S. orchestras.  Under the contract that expired earlier this month,
musicians earned an average of $173,000, according to the
association. Musicians are scheduled to play 160 concerts this
season and receive 12 weeks of paid time off.  “The CSO’s three concerts remain on Carnegie Hall’s
schedule, as previously announced,” Synneve Carlino, a Carnegie
Hall spokesman, said in an e-mail.  For the gala opening night, music director Riccardo Muti
conducts the CSO in Orff’s “Carmina Burana.”  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  Muse highlights include Manuela Hoelterhoff on  country
living  and  Amanda Gordon ’s interview with  Matt Damon .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 