-- Chicago Gives Students More Time to Succeed
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-09-25T20:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/chicago-s-deal-will-move-students-to-head-of-class.html
In his feud with the  Chicago 
Teachers Union, Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  won a major  victory  for
Chicago’s students: increasing the amount of time they spend in
the classroom.  Admittedly, the students might not immediately appreciate
the gift Emanuel has won for them. But a growing body of
evidence suggests that more time at task is crucial to improving
educational performance.  For elementary-school students, Chicago’s school day will
increase from five hours and 45 minutes -- the shortest of any
major city in the U.S. -- to seven hours. In addition, the
school year will be extended from 170 days to 180 days. All
told, the amount of time elementary-school kids spend in school
will increase by almost 30 percent.  Timothy Knowles , the
director of the Urban Education Institute at the  University of
Chicago , says that no other large U.S. city “has added this
much time to the school day and year in one fell swoop --
particularly in such economically tough times.”  Research suggests a strong payoff from extra instructional
time. A new  paper  by Victor Lavy of  Hebrew University  of
 Jerusalem  offers compelling evidence. In September 2004,  Israel 
changed the way it funded elementary schools and directed more
resources to schools with a higher percentage of students from
disadvantaged backgrounds while reducing funding at other 
schools. The schools that received more funding used most of it 
to increase instructional time.  ‘Significant Effect’  The change allowed Lavy to examine the impact of increasing
instructional time in some schools relative to the others and,
unlike many other researchers, he could be almost certain that
the effects were causal. His conclusion: Increasing time at task
has a “positive and significant effect on pupils’ performance
in core subjects.” Lavy also finds the effects to be
symmetrical: Increasing time at task helps, and decreasing it
hurts. (Interestingly, though, Lavy finds increasing time at a
specific task raises the relevant test score. Spending more time
in art class, say, does not help raise math scores.)  Within the context of U.S.  charter schools , Will Dobbie and
Roland Fryer of  Harvard University   have also found  a significant
effect from more school time. Dobbie and Fryer examine the
things that successful charter schools (there have been plenty
of not-so-successful ones) do right. One of the most important
elements of successful charter schools is that they provide more
instructional time, both through a longer school day and
lengthened school year. (Dobbie and Fryer find that a 25 percent
increase in instructional time is associated with annual gains
in average math scores of 0.06 standard deviations, very close
to Lavy’s estimate.)  In an important  paper  that will be released as part of a
 Hamilton Project  event featuring ideas for improving education
on Sept. 27, Fryer argues that the lessons from successful
charter schools can be applied to public schools across the U.S.
Early  results  from experiments in Houston and Denver -- which
apply the charter-school lessons in a public-school setting --
are promising, he says, raising the possibility of scaling them
to a national level. (Disclosure: I serve on the Hamilton
Project Advisory Council.)  The other benefit of more time in school is that it reduces
risks associated with so-called latchkey kids and eases the
burden on parents when the school day ends much earlier than the
 workday . In 2012, it makes no sense for us to perpetuate a
school calendar based on an agrarian cycle.  More Problems  To be sure, Emanuel’s deal with Chicago’s teachers doesn’t
solve all the  problems  facing the city’s schools, such as a
huge, looming funding gap in the teachers’ pension fund. A new
 book  by Alicia Munnell of  Boston College  titled “State and
Local Pensions: What Now?” presents a trenchant analysis of the
issues facing public-pension plans across the country. In a
future column, I plan to review that book and discuss the
Chicago pension problem.  And more time in school by itself is not a panacea. Lavy
shows it matters how the time is spent, while Dobbie and Fryer
delineate other crucial steps to improving educational
performance, including a more rigorous approach to training and
evaluating teachers, expanded high-dosage tutoring and a more
data-driven approach to teaching individual students.  But more time does matter. Today’s elementary-school
students in Chicago will be more productive workers tomorrow
because of the increase in the time they will spend in the
classroom. For that, they can thank Mayor Emanuel.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Barack Obama’s mixed success
at the UN  and on  Iceland’s economic recovery ;  Margaret Carlson 
on how Republicans  learned to love Todd Akin ; Clive Crook on
 India’s reform push ; Jonathan Mahler on the  NFL’s enigmatic game
plan for its referees ; Cass R. Sunstein on  what Sixto Rodriguez
can teach markets and politicians ;  Jeff Rubin  on the
 environmental consequences  of the Keystone XL pipeline.  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Deborah Solomon  at   dsolomon20@bloomberg.net . 