-- Chinese Fret Over Retirement, Healthcare, Jobs: Review
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-09-25T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/chinese-fret-over-retirement-healthcare-jobs-review.html
In  “The End of the Chinese
Dream, ” Gerard Lemos presents contemporary  China  as an angst-
ridden place where the economic miracle of the past two decades
has left a vast swath of the population fretting about the
future.  It’s not the lack of democracy or human rights that keeps
the Chinese awake at night. Rather it’s the gnawing fear of
unemployment, soaring health care costs and the prospect of old
age with insufficient savings.  The book’s findings are based on research Lemos began in
2007 in Chongqing, a city little visited by foreigners at the
time. It has since become associated with the murder in November
of British businessman Neil Heywood by Gu Kailai, the wife of
disgraced former Communist Party boss  Bo Xilai .  Lemos sidesteps the ban on academics conducting independent
social research by adapting a millennia-old Confucian tradition
called the Wish Tree, where supplicants tie their desires to
branches of a tree in temple courtyards.  Lemos obtains permission from local authorities to create
his own “trees” in public squares. He invites citizens to name
a single event that most changed their lives, their biggest
worries and their wishes. He replicates the exercise in two
neighborhoods in Beijing, receiving 2,586 responses in all.  Rice Bowl  The majority of concerns can be linked to the one-child
policy, massive urbanization and the abolition of China’s iron
rice bowl, which guaranteed employment, housing, healthcare and
pensions until it was abandoned after the economic reforms of
the late 1980s.  Some respondents air specific grievances linked to
widespread corruption by local officials, often in connection
with land, while others have varied ambitions. A 21-year-old
woman wants to lose weight, a 22-year-old man hopes for twins,
and a 12-year-old boy wants to be the Chinese  Bill Gates .  During the exercise, Lemos meets a Chongqing widow with a
lump in her stomach whose daughter lives far away in Guangdong.  “I think it’s cancer,” she explains through her tears.
“I can’t afford to go to the doctor and I haven’t told my
daughter. I don’t want to ruin her life.”  Unfortunately this is the only case where Lemos is able to
flesh out the stories behind the responses, leaving the reader
wishing he’d had the chance to make follow up interviews.  Factory Girls  As a result, the book lacks the rich narratives found in
Leslie Chang’s  “Factory Girls”  and Zhang Xinxin and Sang Ye’s
“Chinese Lives,” which make those works such memorable reads.  Still, Lemos displays a fine eye for detail, seen here in
his description of a temple courtyard.  “Thin blue plumes of smoke curled and floated up. Above
them, caged birds hung from the branches of trees. One of them,
a super-clever mynah bird, within minutes started to mimic with
eerie accuracy the unusual laugh of a foreigner.”  During a talk at the  Foreign Correspondents Club  in  Hong
Kong , Lemos said he was “sure statisticians would be
horrified” at his methodology, though he said he made “no
scientific claims” either.  Instead he uses his findings to discuss broader trends,
including environmental degradation, widening  income inequality ,
the resurgence of Confucianism and the future of the Communist
Party, which he finds morally bankrupt.  His observations will not come as a surprise to readers who
have kept up with media coverage and other writers whom he
relies upon heavily in his extensively footnoted work.  For example, he writes that the myth of “inscrutable
Chinese fatalism” is debunked by the spread of social problems
such as mental illness, drugs, prostitution, suicide and
widespread protests -- themes that have been extensively covered
elsewhere.  But for the uninitiated eager to look beyond the veneer of
China’s glitzy coastal cities and official propaganda, Lemos’s
book is an excellent primer.  “The End of the Chinese Dream: Why Chinese People Fear the
Future” is published by Yale University Press (301 pages, $38).
To buy the book in  North America , click  here .  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on art,  Ryan Sutton 
on  New York  dining,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and  Amanda
Gordon’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 