-- China Wealth Gap to Stay in Danger Zone, Government Adviser Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-25T02:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/china-wealth-gap-to-stay-in-danger-zone-government-adviser-says.html
China ’s income gap will persist at
a “dangerously” high level over the coming decade, putting
pressure on the nation’s incoming leaders to curb corruption and
state control of industries, according to a government adviser.  China’s  Gini coefficient , a measure of inequality, may
hover around 0.5, Li Shi, who helped draft a government plan on
income distribution, said in an interview last week. The
government hasn’t published a countrywide Gini figure since 2000.
The  index (SHCOMP)  ranges from 0 to 1, readings at 0.4 or higher are used
by analysts as a gauge of the potential for social disturbances.  “The situation is very dangerous now, and it’s a life-or-
death battle for the new leaders to fight,” said Li, 55,
executive dean of Beijing Normal University’s China Institute of
Income Distribution, who compiled his own Gini survey in 2007.
“Many reforms have been delayed in past years, but I don’t
think China has the luxury to delay any more.”  Ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai drew attention to the Gini
coefficient in March, saying that the figure exceeded 0.46. His
downfall also heightened focus on the role of wealth and
influence in the Communist Party, with his wife convicted last
month of murdering British businessman Neil Heywood, and his
former police chief this week convicted of covering up the crime.  With economic growth for 2012 at risk of the weakest
performance since 1990, Li sees a slowing in wage gains that
will counter improvements that authorities are championing in
social security coverage. The wealth gap adds urgency to the
need to distribute income from the “monopoly profits” garnered
by China’s state-owned enterprises, according to Li.  Power Transition  Vice President  Xi Jinping  and Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  --who
are forecast to head the next group of leaders in the Communist
Party’s once-in-a-decade power transition by year-end -- have
yet to publicly lay out their policy priorities. China’s
authorities have for eight years been working on a blueprint to
boost citizens’ share of economic growth.  “It’s a well-established consensus that inequality is a
huge economic and political problem and that it needs to be
resolved if China’s growth is going to resemble anything that
could be called sustainable,” said Alistair Thornton, an
economist in Beijing at IHS  Global Insight . “We haven’t seen
enough in terms of reform to warrant the view that we are moving
in the right direction.”  China doesn’t deliberately hide its Gini coefficient, and
will release the data once it improves its survey methods,  Ma Jiantang , the government’s statistics chief, said in March. The
rural Gini coefficient was 0.3949 last year, state news agency
Xinhua said in August, citing a survey by Central China Normal
University’s Center for China Rural Studies.  2007 Survey  Li said the survey of 20,000 Chinese households he
conducted in 2007 determined a coefficient of 0.48. The figure
has risen from 0.302 in 1978, when the Communist Party began to
open the economy to market forces, according to a 2008 report by
Chen Jiandong at Southwestern University of Finance and
Economics in Sichuan province.  China’s rapid economic growth has helped pull much of its
population out of poverty, along with swelling the nation’s
ranks of billionaires. The gross domestic product of the world’s
most populous nation increased about 10 percent on average in
the past two decades. World Bank data show that 600 million
people were lifted out of poverty from 1981 to 2004.  Now, the GDP growth engine is moderating. Song Guoqing, a
central bank adviser and Peking University professor, sees
expansion of 7 percent to 7.5 percent in the first half of 2013,
while  Yuan  Gangming, an economist with the  Chinese Academy of
Social Sciences , said growth may slow for a ninth quarter to
below 7 percent in the first three months of the year.  Stocks Slump  Weakening prospects for the economy contributed to a 4.6
percent slump in the Shanghai Composite Index last week, the
most in 11 months. The gauge rose 0.3 percent yesterday.  The utility of Gini coefficient readings as a predictor for
social unrest may be limited, with China’s reading estimated to
be little different than the U.S. -- at 0.45 for 2007, according
to the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency’s World Factbook.  In China, the number of so-called mass incidents -- strikes,
protests, riots -- doubled in the period from 2006 to 2010 to
180,000 a year, Sun Liping, a sociologist at Beijing’s Tsinghua
University, wrote last year.  “Many social problems today are actually related to income
gaps,” Li said. “Public trust and confidence in the government
has been jeopardized, and if the new leaders want to rebuild
trust and confidence, it must deliver something real.” He said
many resources are in hands of large state-owned big companies,
which are enjoying “extraordinary monopoly profits.”  Distribution Plan  Chinese authorities started to draft a plan on income
distribution in 2004, Jin Aiwei at the China Macroeconomic
Information Network -- a group affiliated with the National
Development & Reform Commission, or NDRC -- wrote in an Aug. 27
article in Economic Information Daily. The newspaper is
published by Xinhua.  Zhang Ping, the head of the NDRC, China’s top economic-
planning agency, said in a report to national lawmakers on Aug.
29 that his agency was working “intensely” on the income-
distribution reform plan, according to Xinhua.  “The saving rate of lower-income households is much lower
than that of higher-income households,” said  Louis Kuijs , chief
China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  Hong Kong  and a
former World Bank economist. “If a key objective is to increase
consumption then indeed redistributing from richer people to
poorer people will definitely increase consumption.”  --Zhou Xin,  Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from Zheng Lifei in
Beijing, Andrew Janes in Jakarta and Mohammed Hadi in Hong Kong.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Chris Anstey  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  