-- China Development Bank Renews Solar Support, Journal Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-25T12:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/chinese-lender-supports-solar-companies-securities-journal-says.html
China Development Bank Corp. plans
to renew a pledge of support for 12 solar companies, an
indication the government is pressing for consolidation within
the industry that’s suffering from excess capacity.  The state-owned lender is preparing to recommend stronger
financial support for  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) ,  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL)  and Yingli Solar Co., the official China Securities Journal
reported, citing an unidentified person. It also named  Hareon
Solar Technology Co. (600401) ,  Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science &
Technology Co. (002506)  and  Sungrow Power Supply Co. (300274) , without disclosing
the other six companies in line for priority funding.  The disclosure may point to a lever the government will use
to ensure the companies that dominate the global solar industry
survive a 44 percent plunge in cell prices in the past year that
has gutted margins across the industry. Neither the bank nor the
companies named confirmed the report.  “This is important to the industry that only 12 selected
companies can receive state support, indicating the government’s
intention to speed up industry consolidation,” said Jessica Ng,
an industry analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in Beijing.
“It seems like Suntech, Trina, and Yingli will survive from
this with, while LDK may be struggling to get on the list.”  Solar Support  China  Development Bank has extended $43.2 billion in credit
lines to 12 Chinese solar companies since 2010, according to
data compiled by New Energy Finance. That helped ensure Suntech,
Trina and Yingli became three of the world’s top five solar
module makers, pushing out German and Japanese companies that
formerly led the industry.  Not included in today’s report were  LDK Solar Co. Ltd. (LDK) ,
 JinkoSolar Holding Co. Ltd. (JKS)  and  JA Solar Holdings Co. Ltd. (JASO) ,
which also rank among the top 10.  The report may indicate how the government will support
recommendations from the State Council in July that set a target
for raising the country’s solar installations to 50 gigawatts in
2020 from about 3.6 gigawatts now.  The Securities Journal, founded by the state-run Xinhua
News Agency, said  China Development Bank  will soon submit the
recommendations to the National Development and Reform
Commission for approval.  Control on Loans  Lending to the rest of the industry will be strictly
controlled and the bank won’t provide financing solely for the
expansion of manufacturing capacity, the newspaper said.  As state policies encourage consolidation among China’s
solar companies, the bank will support acquisitions of smaller
firms by larger ones, the Securities Journal said.  Two calls to Feng Qihua, a spokeswoman for China
Development Bank in Beijing, went unanswered. Suntech’s
spokesman Rory Macpherson declined to comment. Two calls and an
e-mail to Yingli officials weren’t returned.  The solar industry is grappling with an oversupply after
Suntech and its rivals boosted production capacity, sending the
cost of panels tumbling. The average Chinese module price has
plunged about 35 percent to 77 cents a watt from a year earlier,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  The European Union on Sept. 6 opened a probe into whether
Chinese manufacturers of solar modules sell products at a loss,
following a U.S. decision earlier this year to hit the Chinese
industry with anti-dumping duties as high as 250 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  