-- China Loans Boost Access to OPEC Nation After Ecuadorean Default
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-09-25T16:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/china-loans-boost-access-to-opec-nation-after-ecuadorean-default.html
Ecuador’s inability to borrow in
international markets after its 2008 default is drawing the
nation closer to China as the world’s largest commodities
consumer grants loans in exchange for access to oil and metals.  Home to untapped copper reserves similar to those of Chile
and Peru, the world’s top producers, Ecuador has signed loans
for $7.3 billion from China since 2009, or about one-third of
the Andean country’s annual budget, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg based on government announcements. President  Rafael Correa  is asking China for an additional $1.7 billion to prop up
public spending before February’s elections, following a trail
blazed by his ally, Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez .  China is granting loans to Ecuador, which holds South
America’s third-largest oil reserves, in exchange for the raw
materials it needs to fuel economic growth. The money enabled
Correa, 49, to boost forecast public spending by 9 percent this
year.  “They’ve gained access to another source of external
financing,” Sarah Glendon, a New York-based analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service, said by phone on Sept. 14. “The fact that
they were able to find that in China has definitely been
positive.”  In programs similar to those implemented by Chavez, Correa
has used the Chinese loans to rebuild the nation’s crumbling
energy infrastructure and expand its highway system.  Mining Contracts  The former economics professor, who presided over Ecuador’s
$3.2 billion default in 2008 and 2009, has also granted Chinese
state-run companies government contracts as well as mining and
oil concessions.  In March, Ecuador signed its first-ever large-scale mining
contract with a copper unit of state-owned  China Railway
Construction Corp. (601186)  and  Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Holdings
Co. (000630) , China’s second-biggest copper producer. Five months later,
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  agreed to buy part of Repsol
SA’s oil operations in Ecuador, a member of Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera  didn’t respond to phone
and e-mailed messages sent to his press office seeking comment.  Chinese funding has also helped lift Ecuador’s credit
rating, according to Moody’s. On Sept. 13, the New York-based
company raised Ecuador’s sovereign credit rating one step to
Caa1, seven levels below investment grade, citing economic
growth that’s averaged 4.2 percent over the last five years.  The yield on benchmark Ecuadorean dollar bonds due in 2015
has dropped 90 basis points this year to 8.38 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 388 basis-
point drop in similar maturity dollar bonds issued by Venezuela.  While the China loans come with strings attached, the
nation has few other options, says Vicente Albornoz, dean of the
business school at the Universidad de las Americas in  Quito .  “No one else is lending to Ecuador except China,”
Albornoz said. “If we went to the international markets the
rates would be even higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 