-- Executives Urge Harper to Approve Cnooc’s Nexen Bid
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-09-26T20:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/cnooc-seeking-100-of-nexen-hinders-approval-says-chee.html
Canada ’s top executives are urging
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government to approve  Cnooc
Ltd. (883) ’s takeover of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  while calling on it to curb
foreign companies’ power to buy Canada’s biggest oil and gas
producers.  The government will probably permit the $15.1 billion bid,
given the small proportion of Nexen’s assets based in Canada and
the need for the nation to deepen ties with  China ,  Jim Prentice ,
vice chairman of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said in
Ottawa yesterday at a conference organized by the Canadian
Council of Chief Executives.  “The government will see the wisdom to approve that
transaction, and I think the Canadian public can be convinced of
it because it’s in Canada’s interests,” said Prentice, who was
industry minister in 2008 when Canada blocked the acquisition of
 MacDonald Dettwiler & Associates Ltd. (MDA)  by a U.S. company. It was
the first time Canada had rejected an acquisition under its
foreign-takeover law in effect since 1985.  Harper’s policy of selling more of the nation’s natural
resources to Asia -- which he calls a “national priority” to
help boost  economic growth  -- is being tested by concern among
Canadians about the sale of Calgary-based Nexen to a state-owned
firm. China, the world’s second-largest economy, is seeking
greater access to Canada’s oil sands, the world’s third-largest
pool of reserves, to support growth.  Suncor Different  Opposition lawmakers have called on Harper’s majority
Conservative government to hold public consultations on the
deal. Industry Minister Christian Paradis, whose department is
reviewing the transaction, has said it will be “scrutinized
closely.”  Rob Anders, a Conservative lawmaker who represents a
Calgary district, said the government should put conditions on
the transaction that could include restricting Cnooc from
transferring oil-sands extraction technology outside Canada.  “I’m not crazy about a state-owned enterprise, period,
whether it’s a Norwegian or a Canadian or a Chinese state-owned
enterprise,” Anders told reporters in Ottawa today.“It’s
important we have conditions in this case and it’s important we
have conditions going forward.”  Canada would probably be more reluctant to approve the
takeover if Beijing-based Cnooc were attempting to acquire
 Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest energy company, said former
industry minister  John Manley , the council’s chief executive
officer.  Different Size  “If it were Suncor, you would have a different set of
questions being asked, simply because of its scale and its
importance in the Canadian context,” Manley said in an
interview at the conference. Suncor is Canada’s “biggest
independent, and that puts it in a somewhat different
category.”  The government should send a quiet signal to the Chinese if
they don’t want to see acquisitions on a “much larger scale,”
he said.  While the Nexen bid is “path breaking,” it presents the
government with fewer difficulties than  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40-
billion hostile takeover of  Potash Corp (POT) , Manley said. The
government rejected that acquisition in 2010.  “Nexen is an important company, but it’s not as unique as
Potash was in its sector nor is it even by any means one of the
biggest Canadian companies,” said Manley. Potash is the world’s
largest fertilizer producer.  ‘Competitive Advantage’  Asian state-owned enterprises have the ability to
“influence overall activity” in Canada’s oil and gas sector
because of the “distinct competitive advantage” such companies
have over domestic firms,  CIBC (CM)  said in a report distributed
yesterday at the conference.  The government “needs to maintain Canada’s openness to
foreign capital within a policy framework that maintains a
strong Canadian market presence in the  oil sands ,” said CIBC,
the country’s fifth biggest lender by assets.  The country has an interest in “making sure we have a
strong Canadian presence in the oil sands because it’s such an
immense resource for the country,” said N. Murray Edwards,
chairman of  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , speaking on a panel
with CIBC’s Prentice. “There are certain assets in the oil
sands that I would argue are much more strategic for a Canadian
presence than maybe the assets that Nexen has.”  While Canada will probably approve the Nexen bid, it may
impose conditions, Edwards said.  “The question will be for Cnooc, are the conditions put
forth by the government of Canada conditions they can live
with,” Edwards said.  Keep Employees  Cnooc has offered to make Calgary the headquarters of its
North American operations, keep Nexen’s current employees and
management, and list its shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Asian state-owned enterprises have paid an average premium
of 77 percent over market price for Canadian oil and gas
companies since 2005, compared with an average premium of 12
percent for domestic acquirers, CIBC said in the report.  The findings suggests some state-owned firms “are either
being driven by a lower cost of capital, or non-market strategic
imperatives,” the bank said in the report.  The “wave of foreign investment” in the oil sands should
improve the overall credit quality of Canadian oil and gas
producers, credit-rating company DBRS Ltd. said in a report
issued today. “Increased investment activity from foreign
national  oil companies  will likely draw greater political
scrutiny,” the firm said in the report.  Below Offer  Cnooc said July 23 it planned to acquire all of the common
shares of oil and gas producer Nexen. The company’s shares rose
4 cents to $25.24 in  New York  trading today, leaving them 8.2
percent  below  Cnooc’s offer of $27.50, which represented a
premium of 61 percent when the takeover was announced.  Cnooc has sent documents to banks containing proposed terms
for a $6 billion loan, a person familiar with the matter said.
The company has approached a range of banks including lenders
from Singapore, China,  Australia , Europe and the U.S., the
person said, asking not to be identified because the details are
private. Citigroup Inc. is Cnooc’s financial adviser, the person
said.  The Chinese producer is offering to pay an upfront 25
basis-point fee for the 12-month facility with no limits on
commitment size, the person said, citing details from the term
sheet. The margin on the loan starts at 80 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate for the first six months,
before increasing to 100 basis points for the next three months
and 120 basis points for the final period, the person said.  ‘Less Issue’  A bid by Cnooc for less than 100 percent of Calgary-based
 Nexen Inc. (NXY)  would have made securing Canadian-government approval
for the transaction easier, according to Felix Chee of China
Investment Corp. Chee spoke on the panel with Prentice and
Edwards.  “There’s less issue if Cnooc, for example, had bought an
operating interest in the assets,” said Chee, the Chinese
sovereign wealth fund’s chief representative in Canada. “What
wasn’t expected was to buy the whole goddamn head office.”  The takeover would have caused less “fuss” if Irving,
Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  had been the acquirer, Chee said.
“I don’t know if the issues would be the same if it was Exxon-
Nexen. I don’t think it’s about foreign investment; it’s about
China.”  While Canada is a “receptive jurisdiction” for foreign
investment, a “million pairs of eyes” in China are watching to
see whether the Nexen bid is approved, he said.  China seeks a “fair and objective assessment” by the
Canadian government of foreign acquisitions by state-owned
companies, Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said yesterday
in a speech in Toronto.  “In recent years more Chinese companies are going global
for mergers and acquisitions,” Chen said through a translator.
“Some of them are state-owned companies but they are
independent business players and they strictly observe laws and
regulations of host countries,”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  