-- Coal and Nuclear Power Can’t Substitute for Pricey Oil
-- B y   J e f f   R u b i n
-- 2012-09-25T00:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/coal-and-nuclear-power-can-t-substitute-for-pricey-oil.html
(Corrects status of  Japan ’s nuclear program in the 27th
paragraph. This is the second of four excerpts from “The Big
Flatline: Oil and the No-Growth Economy.”)  About 40 percent of the world’s
electric power is generated from burning coal, which is second
only to oil in contributing to global energy use.  And affordable coal may soon be running out just as fast as
affordable oil is.  No resource can withstand the pressure of an exponential
growth in demand.  China  burned 3.7 billion tons of coal in 2010,
according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration,
compared with 1.2 billion tons in 2000. Today, China uses almost
twice as much coal as the U.S. while possessing only half of its
reserves.  Coal is behind China’s world-leading economic growth,
accounting for more than three-quarters of the country’s power.
An ever-increasing supply is needed to keep factories humming,
lights on and, most of all, its gross domestic product growing.  Just as  oil prices  hit unprecedented highs a few years ago,
so, too, did the price of its hydrocarbon cousin. At the peak of
the boom in global commodity demand in 2008, coal prices rose to
almost $200 a metric ton, a price matching the $147-per-barrel
for oil at the time.  Oil prices tumbled 70 percent when the recession hit.
Although coal didn’t fall as dramatically, its price still
dropped by more than half. And, like oil, coal prices perked up
again along with the global recovery.  China’s Needs  In today’s economy, to expand their GDP, countries need to
burn more hydrocarbons. That’s why China is digging up its coal
reserves at an unprecedented pace. The official growth plan
calls for burning as much as 5 billion tons per year, a third
more than recent consumption. The country already accounts for
almost half of global coal production, yet it holds less than 15
percent of the world’s coal reserves. China now uses more coal
each year than the U.S. and  Europe  combined, forcing it to be a
net importer.  India ’s fuel demands are also surging. World coal
consumption, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate
Change , is forecast to double over the next two decades. Where
will all this coal come from?  China is already struggling this year to meet current
needs, and its companies are scouring the world looking for new
reserves.  State-run Chinese enterprises  spent more than $32
billion to acquire foreign mining companies from 2005 to 2010.  Industry experts will tell you that enough coal exists to
fuel the generation of electricity for the next 200 years. In
one sense, they are probably right. The world will never
geologically run out of coal, just as it will never run out of
oil. But just as we are rapidly running out of affordable oil,
the same constraint is being felt in the world coal market.  As it turns out, our supply of economically viable coal is
a lot smaller than we think, at least when it comes to the high-
grade variety. Not all coal is created equal. The highest
grades, such as anthracite and bituminous coal, can have as much
as five times the energy content of other “brown” varieties,
such as sub-bituminous and lignite. If you have to ship five
times as much low-grade coal to match the energy content of
high-grade coal, it makes little sense to transport it to
faraway  power plants .  Unfortunately, the so-called brown coals are the most
abundant. The type with the highest energy density, anthracite,
has been depleted far more rapidly.  Coal Quality  Physical tonnage can offer a misleading picture of supply.
For example, coal production in the U.S., which has the world’s
largest reserves, has never been greater. But from the
standpoint of how much energy is produced, coal peaked in 1998,
and the substitution of lower-grade coal for higher grades has
resulted in a reduction in actual energy content. The U.S.’s
 annual production  of high-grade anthracite is now less than a
quarter of its 1950 level. Production of the next-highest grade
of coal, bituminous, peaked in 1990 and has since been
declining, as well. But despite a drop-off in high-quality
production, the total coal output -- mostly brown varieties --
from U.S. mines has increased by about 20 million tons per year.  Less energy for more tons mined: This is just another
example of the concept of diminishing returns that is now common
in our energy landscape.  Nuclear has been hailed as a potential alternative to oil
and coal. But every time it seems poised to take off, we get an
unpleasant reminder of its dangers.  The meltdown of three reactors in Japan in early 2011 was
the latest setback to nuclear energy’s chances of becoming the
fuel of tomorrow. Before the accident at Fukushima, concerns
about  carbon emissions  had translated into a new receptiveness
toward the nuclear industry. That completely changed in the
hours after the tsunami struck. Investors quickly sold off
everything that had anything to do with generating nuclear
power, and governments bailed out.  Global warming may pose far greater dangers than a
meltdown, but nothing scares people more than radiation. No
matter how exaggerated the fear,  Japan’s nuclear accident  became
the world’s nuclear accident.  If you look at Japan’s  fuel imports , it is easy to see why
nuclear plays such a big role. Japan burns about 4.5 million
barrels of oil every day, ranking it third in the world behind
the U.S. and China. Japan produces less than 150,000 barrels a
day. Now, its hydrocarbon fuel bill will be significantly
higher.  For years, the Japanese nuclear industry had been selling a
reputation for world-leading earthquake-resistant construction
standards at home and abroad. The Fukushima disaster exposed an
industry in which decades of safety breaches and cover-ups
pointed to a major accident just waiting to happen.  Higher Costs  The policy fallout reaches well beyond Japan. After each
nuclear disaster, the bar is set higher for safety. Reactors
built between the disasters at Three Mile Island in 1979 and
Chernobyl in 1986 cost 95 percent more than those built before
1979. Compared with existing nuclear facilities, the power
generated in plants built after Three Mile Island was 40 percent
more expensive. After Chernobyl, additional safety and
containment measures sent construction costs up more than 85
percent, while prices for nuclear-generated power increased by
an additional 40 percent.  Germany  was one of the first nations to react. The
government reversed a decision to extend the lives of its aging
fleet of 17 nuclear-power plants until 2036.  Chancellor Angela Merkel , a strong proponent of nuclear power, decided to close
seven of the oldest reactors, pending a safety review. Two have
been permanently boarded up. Germany then announced that it
would close all of its nuclear-power plants by 2022.  Germany now must replace the lost power. Almost 30 percent
of its electricity comes from nuclear, roughly the same
proportion as in Japan. While Germany leads the world in solar
and wind energy, that won’t be enough to fill the gap. The more
likely substitute is natural gas. But that means greater energy
dependence on  Russia , which already provides almost a third of
Germany’s supply.  Other countries are also reconsidering nuclear power.
 Switzerland  is looking to phase it out altogether. In the U.S.,
which has the most reactors, a nuclear renaissance had been
under way with 14 states considering proposals for new plants.
Now, public anxiety will make building facilities almost
impossible. A recent Gallup poll found that seven out of 10
Americans were fearful of a nuclear accident. A CBS poll found
support for nuclear power had slipped to 43 percent, lower even
than in the aftermath of Three Mile Island.  The effects of Fukushima are being felt almost everywhere
except in China and India. That is where power needs are the
greatest, and both countries are holding the line on ambitious
nuclear plans.  New Reactors  China has 25 reactors under construction. They will be
added to the 14 already in service, providing a fivefold
increase in nuclear-power generation capacity by 2020.  India will proceed with plans to order as many as 21
nuclear reactors. More than half of its 1.2 billion people still
need to be connected to an electrical grid. The country’s oil
consumption is already about three times its  domestic
production , and demand spurred by record auto sales is driving
it higher.  In Japan, however, all of the 50 remaining operational
nuclear reactors have been shut down after scheduled maintenance
checks, and just two have restarted. That means that over about
a year, it will go from a country drawing almost a third of its
power from reactors to one that is close to nuclear-free. On
Sept. 14, the government announced that it would phase out
nuclear power over the next three decades.  It will have to tap other sources, adding to the demand for
global resources. At the same time, oil and coal prices are
telling us that those resources have never been scarcer.  Fukushima and incidents such as the spill from the
Deepwater Horizon rig in the  Gulf of Mexico  are both products of
an insatiable demand for energy that compels us to harness ever
more costly and tricky sources of supply. The more our economies
grow, the more energy and power they need, prompting the
development of even riskier resources.  Will the high price of extracting these new sources of
supply end up killing the world’s appetite for it? In some
places, that has already happened.  ( Jeff Rubin , a former chief economist and chief strategist
at CIBC World Markets Inc., is the author of “Why Your World Is
About to Get a Whole Lot Smaller.” This is the second of four
excerpts from his new book, “The Big Flatline: Oil and the No-
Growth Economy,” which will be published Oct. 16 by  Palgrave
Macmillan . The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1  and
 Part 3 .)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Libor and criminal charges 
and on a needed delay for  Arctic oil drilling ; Susan P. Crawford
on  Apple’s war with Google ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on  “Muslim rage”
in Pakistan ; William Pesek on  Myanmar’s economic development ;
 Ramesh Ponnuru  on  QE3 FAQs ; Roben Farzad on the breakup between
 Goldman Sachs and ambitious youth .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeff Rubin at  jeffrubin@sympatico.ca   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  