-- Consumer Confidence in U.S. Rises to a Seven-Month High
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-09-25T20:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/consumer-confidence-in-u-s-increases-to-a-seven-month-high.html
Confidence among American consumers
jumped more than forecast in September as a budding housing
recovery and rising stock prices gave households reason to be
more upbeat.  The Conference Board’s sentiment  index  increased to 70.3,
the highest level in seven months, from 61.3 in August, figures
from the New York-based private research group showed today. The
reading exceeded the most optimistic projection of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Another report showed home values rose by
the most in two years.  Consumers felt better about their chances of landing a job
soon and about the employment outlook over the next six months,
today’s report showed, easing one of the impediments to the
spending that accounts for 70 percent of the economy. The boost
in confidence also comes just over a month before Americans go
to the polls, giving President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
prospects a lift.  “The consumer is hanging in there,” said  Joseph LaVorgna ,
chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New
York . “It’s one of the reasons we’re not totally pessimistic
about the economy. Spending is growing, but we need more things
to contribute.”  Stocks fell on concern global stimulus measures will not be
enough to boost growth. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped
1.1 percent to 1,441.59 at the close in New York, a fourth
consecutive decline.  Treasury securities  climbed, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note down to 1.67 percent from
1.71 percent late yesterday.  Global Concerns  Globally, sentiment hasn’t held up as well. French
industrial confidence held this month near its lowest in more
than two years as the economy stagnates and tax increases loom,
figures from the national statistics office Insee showed today
in Paris.  In  Australia , households are building a financial cushion
by repaying mortgages faster and saving more, while businesses
are indicating renewed willingness to borrow, the nation’s
central bank said.  Estimates for the Conference Board’s U.S. consumer
sentiment gauge ranged from 60 to 70 in the Bloomberg survey of
73 economists.  Amelia Guckenberg, 27, an attorney in Richmond,  Virginia ,
is among those Americans sensing the economy is getting better
and, as a result, is more comfortable spending.  Incremental Improvement  “I know that the jobs numbers are increasing, not
dramatically, but incrementally things are getting better,” she
said. “I am definitely pretty conservative when it comes to
personal spending, but I am a little more confident now. I feel
less worried about spending on myself, taking shopping trips,
buying clothing, stuff like that.”  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sold more than 5 million iPhone 5s in the first
three days it was available, surpassing a record set last year
by the previous model, the Cupertino, California-based company
said yesterday. The demand fell short of some analysts’
estimates as the company said supply constraints delayed
shipments.  Apple is “working hard to get an iPhone 5 into the hands
of every customer who wants one as quickly as possible,” Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said in the statement.  The Conference Board’s measure of  present conditions 
increased to a five-month high of 50.2 from 46.5 in August. The
measure of  expectations  for the next six months advanced to
83.7, the highest since February, from 71.1.  Hiring Outlook  The percent of respondents expecting more jobs to become
available in the next six months climbed to the highest since
February, while the share of those who expect their incomes to
rise over the same period rose to the highest level of the year.  Stabilization in housing is probably playing a role in the
improvement in confidence.  Home prices  in July rose  1.2 percent 
from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month increase since August
2010, according to S&P/Case-Shiller data released today in New
York. Property values in July were up 0.4 percent from the
previous month. The  Federal Housing Finance Agency ’s purchase-
only  home-price index , also released today, showed a 0.2 percent
gain in July after 0.6 percent increases the prior two months.  “We’re finally seeing a more sustained and broad-based
improvement in home prices,” said  Millan Mulraine , senior U.S.
strategist for TD Securities in New York, who correctly
projected the year-over-year increase. “The housing sector has
made an important turn here, and that is being sustained.”  Also brightening household moods, the  S&P 500  has  gained  16
percent this year through yesterday.  Other Measures  Today’s confidence report parallels strength in other
indicators. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to a
seven-week high in the period ended Sept. 16. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary sentiment index rose
this month to the highest level since May.  Improving consumer moods may bolster President Obama, a
Democrat, in a campaign that has been largely fought on economic
issues.  A survey by the Pew Research Center conducted Sept. 12-16
showed Obama with a 51 percent to 43 percent lead over
Republican  Mitt Romney  among likely voters, a bigger September
gap than the last three candidates who went on to win in
November. The survey of 2,192 likely voters has a margin of
error of plus or minus 2.4 percentage points.  Results of a Gallup  poll  issued today showed the gain in
confidence is tied to political affiliations. Democrats’ views
on the economy shot up 10 points in the week ended Sept. 23,
while that for Republicans dropped five points, according to
Gallup. For independents, a key swing group, sentiment fell four
points last week.  Persistent Unemployment  Unemployment, which has exceeded 8 percent for 43 straight
months, the longest stretch in records dating back to 1948,
remains a concern. That’s why Federal Reserve policy makers this
month pledged to continue to buy assets and pump money into the
economy until the jobless rate drops.  “The economy is still pretty sluggish with unemployment
where it is and with  consumer confidence  where it is,” Tom Folliard, president and chief executive officer of CarMax Inc.,
a Richmond, Virginia-based used-vehicle retailer, said during a
Sept. 20 earnings call. “I still think we have that kind of the
economy hanging over our customer traffic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomber.net  