-- Corker Says QE3 Shows Bernanke Has ‘Stayed Too Long’
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-09-25T20:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/corker-says-qe3-shows-bernanke-has-stayed-too-long-at-fed.html
Bob Corker , a member of the Senate
panel with Federal Reserve oversight authority, said the central
bank’s decision to embark on a third round of quantitative
easing shows  Ben S. Bernanke  has “stayed too long.”  Corker said the Fed’s asset purchases have alleviated
pressure on Congress to come up with a credible fiscal plan that
in his view would provide a basis for long-term economic growth.  “I know  Ben Bernanke , I respect him tremendously,” the
Tennessee Republican said today at a Bloomberg Government
breakfast in Washington. “My criticisms of the Fed in large
part are about pressure being taken off us.” He added: “If you
saw markets swooning downward because we weren’t acting, I think
you would see us acting.”  Corker, a Senate Banking Committee member who voted to
confirm Bernanke for another term ending in 2014, praised the
chairman’s actions during the financial crisis and said the
second round of bond purchases, announced in November 2010, was
appropriately aimed at halting deflation.  “Ben did a great job during the crisis,” Corker, 60, said
in a separate Bloomberg Television interview. “I think he has
stayed too long, yes, I am very despondent about much of what he
is doing recently.”  Fed spokesman  David Skidmore  declined to comment.  Bernanke, who has been Fed chairman since 2006, was first
nominated by President  George W. Bush  and picked for a second
term by President  Barack Obama .  Bernanke’s Future  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has said he
wouldn’t reappoint Bernanke, 58. Obama hasn’t said whether he
would nominate the former Princeton University professor for a
third term, and the Fed chairman has declined to discuss his
future.  The policy making  Federal Open Market Committee  announced a
third round of quantitative easing Sept. 13, committing to $40
billion in monthly purchases of mortgage-backed securities. The
FOMC said the buying would continue “if the outlook for the
labor market does not improve substantially.”  “If you focus on the Fed’s role as it relates to price
stability, you can understand QE2,” Corker said. “I do think
we have gotten out of bounds now.”  The FOMC also said that low levels for the federal funds
rate “are likely to be warranted at least through mid-2015.”  Not all Fed officials supported the latest round of bond-
buying.  Fed Credibility  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said in a speech
at the district bank today that the new bond buying risks
hurting the Fed’s credibility. Plosser isn’t a voting member of
the FOMC this year.  “We are unlikely to see much benefit to growth or to
employment from further asset purchases,” Plosser said.
“Conveying the idea that such action will have a substantive
impact on labor markets and the speed of the recovery risks the
Fed’s credibility.”  U.S. stocks dropped, erasing early gains, after Plosser’s
comments. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was down 1 percent to
1,442.05 at 3:55 p.m. in  New York  after climbing as much as 0.4
percent. The index is up more than 3 percent since Aug. 30, the
day before Bernanke made the case for further action to reduce
unemployment in a speech at  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Williams Comments  San Francisco  Fed President  John Williams  said yesterday
that he expects the Fed to continue its purchases of mortgage-
backed securities into 2013.  “I would also think that a strong case could be made for
expanding or continuing purchases of other assets, including
longer-term Treasuries,” Williams told reporters after a speech
in San Francisco.  “At the end of the year, I don’t expect
we’ll be making substantial improvements in labor market
conditions.”  Corker said regulators are properly moving in the direction
of allowing market-making trading in the final version of the
so-called Volcker Rule.  The rule, named for its original proponent, former Fed
Chairman  Paul Volcker , is intended to prevent banks that have
federally insured deposits from trading for their own account.
It provides exemptions for trades done for market-making and
hedging.  “Our concern was about the market-making component of the
Volcker Rule, and it looks like the regulators are going to end
up where we were, so I actually don’t have any problems,”
Corker said at the breakfast.  Corker said the multibillion-dollar trading loss by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. was a “learning moment” and helped define
what is proprietary trading and what is not.  He said he expects Congress to be willing to make
“tweaks” to the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul law,
including provisions setting standards for the mortgage market.  “I think after the election you’re going to see a lot of
bipartisan efforts to fix a lot of things that should never have
been in there,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  