-- Corn Spreads Collapse as Brazil Exports, U.S. Crop Boost Supply
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-25T11:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/corn-spreads-collapse-as-brazil-exports-u-s-crop-boost-supply.html
Corn spreads in  Chicago  have
collapsed from a peak in July, and buying grain for December
delivery is now cheaper than for March delivery as an early U.S.
harvest and record  Brazil  exports are boosting immediate supply.  Corn for December delivery has slipped 6.8 percent in the
past month to $7.4675 a bushel, while the March contract dropped
6.4 percent to $7.5025 a bushel in the same period, making corn
for the closer date 3.75 cents cheaper. Buyers on July 20 had to
pay 14.5 cents more for corn delivered in December.  About 39 percent of the U.S. corn crop was harvested as of
Sept. 23, compared with an average of 13 percent over the
previous five years, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  reported
yesterday. The most-active corn contract climbed to a record
$8.49 a bushel on Aug. 10 as the worst U.S. drought in at least
half a century crimped production prospects.  “The advanced early harvest in the U.S. has come to the
market’s rescue for now,”  Dave Norris , an independent grain
broker in Harrogate,  England , wrote in an e-mailed reply to
questions today.  Exports from Brazil are also holding back prices for the
nearest contract, said Pierre Raye, an analyst at Union InVivo,
the largest exporter of French wheat. Brazil’s  corn exports 
climbed to a record 2.76 million metric tons in August from 1.52
million tons in the year-earlier month, government data show.  Brazilian Feed  “In the short term there’s a lot of Brazilian corn to feed
the market,” Raye said by phone from Paris. “That’s why you
see the corn price is having difficulty rising. In the short
term, the market isn’t feeling the drop in U.S. availability.”  Harvest progress in the U.S. means farmers are now better
able to gauge their yields, and can commit to selling their
crop, according to Raye.  The U.S. corn harvest is forecast to slide to 272.5
million tons from 313.9 million tons in 2011-12, while output
may drop to 841.1 million tons from 876.7 million tons,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Global
consumption is seen at 856.7 million tons in 2012-13,
depleting stockpiles.  “There’ll be pressure on prices until the end of the year,
beyond that there’s a risk that at a global level, the corn
plate will become a little more empty,” Raye said.  Corn for delivery in July 2013 is trading at a discount to
both the December and March contracts.  Argentina  will start
exporting corn at the end of the first quarter, and expectations
for bigger corn production in  Latin America  are weighing on the
July contract, according to the InVivo analyst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  