-- Credit Suisse Said to Consider Merging Its Asset-Management Unit
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-09-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/credit-suisse-said-to-consider-merging-its-asset-management-unit.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, is considering combining its
asset-management unit with the private and investment banking
divisions, a person familiar with the matter said.  The Zurich-based bank hasn’t made a decision on the
consolidation, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the deliberations are private.  Asset management, led by Robert Shafir, 54, is the smallest
of Credit Suisse’s three divisions and contributed 12 percent to
the group’s pretax profit in the first half. The bank agreed in
2008 to sell part of its traditional asset-management business,
which oversaw about 75 billion Swiss francs ($80 billion), to
 Aberdeen Asset Management Plc. (ADN)  Credit Suisse said in July it
would sell two private-equity units to comply with new limits on
investments in  hedge funds  and private-equity funds.  The unit had 360.5 billion francs under management at the
end of June, of which 135.3 billion francs are managed for
private-banking clients. These assets may be integrated into the
private bank, while alternative investments may be a better fit
for the securities unit, the person said.  Credit Suisse declined to comment or make Shafir, who also
heads the group’s business in the Americas, available for an
interview.  Merging the unit may help trim costs. Credit Suisse said in
July it plans to cut an additional 1 billion francs in expenses
by the end of 2013 and Chief Financial Officer  David Mathers ,
47, told investors at a presentation this month the lender will
“continue to look for further cost reductions” beyond the
announced targets.  Credit Suisse’s possible move was reported earlier by
Bilanz, a Swiss business magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  