-- CSN Said to Hire Bradesco on Bid for ThyssenKrupp’s CSA
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-09-25T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/csn-said-to-hire-bradesco-on-bid-for-thyssenkrupp-s-csa.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) ,
Brazil’s third-largest steelmaker by output, hired Bradesco BBI
to advise on an acquisition of  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ’s steel plant in
Rio de Janeiro state, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  The person, who asked not to be identified because the
matter is private, didn’t say how much the company might be
worth.  CSN, as the Sao Paulo-based company is known, was waiting
for ThyssenKrupp to disclose further details about the CSA
steel-slabs plant before considering a bid, Chief Executive
Officer Benjamin Steinbruch told reporters in Rio on June 18.  The plant “is on the table, it’s clear that we will
analyze it as the rest will do,” Steinbruch said at the time.
“Whenever they disclose the details, something that still
hasn’t happened, we will certainly be interested in studying
it.”  Officials at CSN and Bradesco declined to comment and asked
not to be named, in keeping with company policies.  ThyssenKrupp,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, said May 15
that a sale of its Brazilian and U.S. plants is among
“strategic options” for its unprofitable Americas unit. The
company said it hired Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc
to examine the options. The company, which in 2010 began
operating its CSA steel-slabs plant in Rio after a 5.2 billion-
euro ($6.72 billion)  investment , faces output costs in Brazil
that are rising “disproportionately,” it said.  Steel Slabs  ThyssenKrupp built the facility, with a capacity of 5
million metric tons a year, to supply an estimated 3 million
tons of steel slabs to its mills in Calvert, near Mobile,
 Alabama , and the rest to Germany.  Delays at the CSA plant contributed to impairment charges
of 2.9 billion euros in the last fiscal year, when it reported a
loss. ThyssenKrupp owns about 73 percent stake in CSA, while
 Vale SA (VALE)  owns the remaining 27 percent.  Ternium SA (TX)  is also considering a bid for ThyssenKrupp’s
73.13 percent stake in the CSA slab plant.  “We are invited to participate in the process and will
analyze the situation to see if there is anything that could
suit the strategy and the needs of Ternium,” Chief Financial
Officer Pablo Brizzio told analysts during a conference call on
Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  