-- Cuomo Tappan Zee Plan Gets U.S. Approval in Obama Fast Track
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-09-25T14:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/cuomo-s-tappan-zee-plan-gets-u-s-approval-in-obama-fast-track.html
New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s
plan to build a $5.2 billion replacement for the Tappan Zee
Bridge across the  Hudson River  won approval from the U.S.
Transportation Department.  Cuomo made the announcement today on a conference call with
reporters. The permitting process, which includes an
environmental review, typically takes about three years for a
project this size, said Andy O’Rourke, a New York Thruway
Authority spokesman. It took fewer than 10 months after
President  Barack Obama  designated the bridge as one of 14
construction plans put on a so-called fast track for approval.  The decision allows Cuomo, who has made replacing the 56-
year-old span a priority, to select a contractor and begin
construction. The 3.1-mile (5-kilometer) Tappan Zee, about 20
miles north of  Manhattan , carries 138,000 vehicles each day
between Westchester and Rockland counties as part of the Thruway
system. That’s 40 percent more than its designers intended in
the 1950s.  “This was the aspect of the project that had me holding my
breath, and I’m going to exhale today,” Cuomo said on the
conference call. “This was really the big hurdle.”  The step is the latest in what Cuomo has called a
“phenomenally rapid” pace to get the new bridge built after a
decade of discussions and $88 million in studies that led
nowhere. Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, says building the new
span will be an example of government breaking down barriers
that have impeded progress.  Toll Bonds  To get the approval, the state needed to provide the
transportation department with its plan to pay for the project.  Cuomo has said most of the project will be funded through
toll-backed bonds. The Thruway Authority, which is building the
bridge, applied Sept. 5 for a $2.9 billion federal
Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act loan.
Getting federal approval of the environmental plan makes the
state eligible for the loan and other funding.  Cuomo has asked the Thruway Authority to look for other
funding sources to keep tolls from almost tripling.  Last month, Larry Schwartz, Cuomo’s chief of staff, said
cash tolls could rise to $14 from $5 based on the $5.2 billion
estimate for building the bridge. Brian Conybeare, a special
adviser to Cuomo on the project, has since said the prices in
the offers from the groups led by  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , Bechtel Group
Inc. and  Skanska AB (SKAB)  won’t top the estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  