-- Czechs Seek Ways to Ease Ban of 20 Million Liquor Bottles
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-09-26T15:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/czechs-seek-ways-to-ease-quarantine-of-20-million-liquor-bottles.html
Czech Premier Petr Necas may say
today when bars and stores can begin restocking empty liquor
shelves. His government will still need to solve what to do with
millions of bottles quarantined in warehouses after methanol-
laced drinks killed 26 people.  Ministers in Prague will debate options how to allow sales
of newly produced alcohol and some of the 20 million bottles
that were locked in stockrooms after the government imposed a
ban on hard liquor sales two weeks ago. More than 30,000
hospitality businesses have 4 million liters of hard liquor they
aren’t allowed to sell, Necas said yesterday.  The strictest nationwide liquor ban in 20 years forced bars
and stores to lock away bottles from public use. The prohibition
hurt liquor makers such as Paris-based  Pernod Ricard SA (RI) , which
owns the Czech liqueur Becherovka, and is costing the government
in lost  tax revenue .  “We will be looking for solutions that will minimize
losses for the hospitality sector,” Necas said. “Our intention
will be to synchronize the measures, which means sales of new
liquor and freeing a significant part of the locked-up liquor.”  Government officials are debating the implications of
lifting the ban. About 70 percent of the alcohol stored in
stockrooms is safe, Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek said on
the public Czech Television yesterday.  ‘More Complicated’  “It’s more complicated with the remaining 30 percent, but
that doesn’t mean that all of it is risky,” Kalousek said.  Even if the government rules later today to ease the ban,
the actual freeing up of the locked-up bottles may be postponed
for several days, the CTK newswire reported, citing Agriculture
Minister Petr Bendl.  Police on Sept. 24 said they found the source of methyl-
alcohol used to lace beverages and charged two men with public
endangerment, with a possible jail sentence of up 20 years.
Prosecutors may also seek an “exceptional punishment,”
according to state prosecutor Roman Kafka.  The men intentionally provided the mixture of methyl-
alcohol and ethanol in order to enrich themselves, and the main
suspect is a 42-year-old man from the eastern region of
Moravskoslezsko, according to Kafka.  Cheaper methyl-alcohol maximizes  profits  for the producers
and distributors, and such spirits are also sold without a
government liquor-tax stamp.  Authorities are still searching for about 15,000 liters of
tainted liquor, Police President Martin Cervicek said, warning
against the consumption of any spirits of doubtful origin.  Bootleg Labels  The illegal beverages in the country’s worst outbreak of
mass alcohol poisoning in three decades were sold in bottles
under fake labels from at least two Czech liquor makers,
according to police. The poisonous drinks were sold at discounts
in bottles labeled as vodka or tuzemak, a local rum-like
alcoholic beverage. Several people went blind or fell into coma
after consuming it.  “We have a full confession, including the description of
the action that took place, including the motivation of this
person, including the process of creating the base distribution
network,” Kafka said.  The Czech ban is hurting the  budget  as the state collects
about 750 million koruna ($39 million) a month in taxes from
hard liquor sales, according to Ladislav Mincic, a deputy
finance minister. A longer ban would “complicate” efforts to
cut the budget gap, he said on Sept. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  