-- Dassault’s Victory in India Cornering EADS-BAE Becomes Boomerang
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-09-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/dassault-s-victory-in-india-cornering-eads-bae-becomes-boomerang.html
Dassault Aviation SA (AM) ’s biggest
corporate coup risks turning into a pyrrhic victory.  The French company was chosen by  India  in January to supply
at least 126 Rafale jets valued at $11 billion, the first export
order for the warplane and a defeat for the Typhoon built by a
group including European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. and  BAE
Systems Plc. (BA/)  That loss helped bring EADS and BAE together to
plot a merger that now threatens to corner Dassault.  Combining EADS and BAE would dwarf smaller European
aerospace and defense rivals including Dassault, a company in
which EADS owns a 46 percent non-voting right. Dassault Chief
Executive Officer Charles Edelstenne and one of his most senior
lieutenants, Eric Trappier, will meet French Economics Minister
 Pierre Moscovici  today to seek assurance that Dassault doesn’t
get crushed by a European defense champion in the making.  “There are big questions surrounding the fate of
Dassault,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo Securities in
Paris. “If BAE joins EADS, Dassault may be marginalized.”  Dassault is a long-time rival to EADS both on export
markets for fighter planes and more recently in the nascent
market for unmanned aerial vehicles, or drones. Besides the
Rafale warplane, Dassault makes Falcon business jets and space-
rocket components. While the contract in India is still being
negotiated, talks are “on course,” Sitanshu Kar, a spokesman
for India’s defense ministry, said yesterday.  Complicating Alliances  An EADS-BAE marriage would complicate an alliance Dassault
began forging with BAE after the French and U.K. governments
agreed to cooperate more closely in 2010 on security issues.
Dassault and BAE agreed to collaborate on intelligence gathering
and unmanned combat drones, a business link Trappier helped
establish. EADS failed in efforts to market a drone called the
Talarion to European governments.  Europe  has been grappling with an oversupply of combat
aircraft at a time when budget cuts have slashed domestic
appetite for high-priced military jets. When the aircraft now in
production were conceived in the late 1970s,  France  was going to
join the U.K.,  Spain ,  Italy , and then-West  Germany  in developing
a single fighter. Work-share disputes scuttled the partnership,
leading France to develop the Rafale and the others the Typhoon.  The Brussels-based European Defense Agency is trying to
push countries to cooperate on future efforts to avoid
duplication and a repeat of the past.  Future Role  “One of the questions now is will Dassault have a role in
Europe’s next big fighter jet?,” Derocles said.  Dassault, founded by Marcel Dassault in 1936, has managed
to keep the the company in family hands, with 50.1 percent of
the stock controlled by Serge Dassault, the 87-year-old chairman
and son of Marcel. Serge Dassault, whose father was held in a
German concentration camp during World War II, has said he would
never submit to a merger with a German company, leaving
alliances with other smaller companies as one option.  Among possible partners is  Thales SA (HO) , the maker of
commercial airplane cockpits and the radar for the Rafale. The
French government holds a 30 percent stake in Thales, with
Dassault controlling 26 percent. A Dassault Aviation spokesman
declined to comment on the company’s plans.  “Dassault Aviation may engineer a merger with Thales,”
Tom Picherit, Paris-based analyst at AlphaValue said.  Rebuilding Alliances  Still, a tie-up with Dassault has not been a priority for
Thales. Instead, the French government had sought for years to
deepen ties between Thales and  Safran SA. (SAF)  Although an outright
merger has run into opposition, including from EADS, Thales and
Safran have set up a joint venture to pool defense electronics
under pressure from the French government.  “The French government will strongly support Thales as the
French defense contractor,” said Sash Tusa, partner at Echelon
Research & Advisory. “This could drive a grand, full
consolidation of the French state-owned defense companies.”  Such an arrangement may bundle under Thales the French
ship-builder DCNS, in which the Neuilly-sur-Seine based company
already holds a 35 percent stake, and state-owned armored
vehicle maker Nexter. A Thales spokesman declined to comment.  Thales CEO Luc Vigneron, who previously ran Nexter, said
last year he would consider taking a stake in the vehicle maker.
That transaction is on hold as the new French government defines
its industrial strategy.  As France works on its response to the merger proposal
between EADS and BAE, the government is wary to preserve the
political influence that its 15 percent stake in EADS provides.
With EADS CEO  Tom Enders  working to cut the enlarged group loose
from government meddling, the state may instead show more
interest in deepening relations with the smaller companies.  “If France’s government sees its influence diminished in
EADS-BAE, it may come to regard Dassault as its national
aerospace champion,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president of
Fairfax, Virginia-based Teal Group, an aviation consulting firm.
“Dassault runs the risk of being marginalized, but they’ve
faced that risk for years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  