-- Diageo Says It’s In Talks With United Spirits on Stake
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-09-25T12:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/diageo-says-it-s-in-talks-with-united-spirits-on-stake.html
  Diageo Plc (DGE)  confirmed that it’s in
talks to buy a stake in billionaire Vijay Mallya’s  United
Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , a deal that would help the world’s biggest
distiller build its presence in the Indian whiskey market.  The two companies disclosed the discussions in a statement
to the  London  and Bombay stock exchanges today ahead of
Bangalore-based United Spirits’ annual general meeting, without
disclosing the size of the investment. There is no certainty the
negotiations will lead to a deal, the companies said. Bloomberg
reported last week that the companies were in advanced talks.  United Spirits is the largest distiller in India, and sells
Indian-made foreign liquors as well as some Scotch whisky brands
including Whyte & Mackay, which it bought in 2007. Mallya needs
money to help finance his  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , which is
struggling with losses and a cash shortage, and Diageo is
seeking to expand in developing markets as sales growth wanes in
more mature markets including  Europe .  “A deal with United Spirits would provide Diageo with a
stronger route to market in India, which has a fast-growing
emerging middle-class consumer,” Phil Carroll, an analyst at
Shore Capital in London, wrote today. “On the face of it, we
believe today’s announcement is good news.”  Expansion Push  Diageo has made acquisitions, including purchasing  Turkey ’s
Mey Icki raki brand for about $2.1 billion last year, as part of
the London-based company’s push to expand in  emerging markets 
and to gain 50 percent of its net sales from developing regions
by 2015. It already sells its brands such as Johnnie Walker
Scotch whisky in  India  and competes with companies including
Pernod Ricard SA. India is the largest whiskey market in the
world.  United Spirits’s  shares  gained 8.9 percent to 1,148.7
rupees, the highest since February 2011, at the end of Mumbai
trading today. The stock was the biggest gainer on the 10-stock
BSE Fast Moving Consumer Goods Index. The distiller’s shares
have more than doubled this year, valuing the company at 150.2
billion rupees ($2.8 billion). Diageo’s shares advanced as much
as 2.2 percent in London and were up 1.6 percent at 1,752 pence
at 12:56 p.m., giving the company a market value of 43.9 billion
pounds ($71.3 billion).  Kingfisher Airlines rose 7.9 percent to 14.4 rupees, the
highest level since May 8.  Negotiations Ongoing  Diageo was in advanced talks on a stake purchase in United
Spirits, four people with knowledge of the matter said on Sept.
21. Mallya owns 28 percent of the distiller, and will remain a
United Spirits shareholder, the people said. Diageo may get the
right to appoint a majority of United Spirits’s board members,
including the chairman, one person said. Talks between Diageo
and United Spirits about three years ago collapsed due to
disagreements about price.  Today’s announcement “has been discussed in the press
recently and has been speculated about widely over time so
should come as little surprise to the market,” Anthony Bucalo,
an analyst at  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  in London, wrote. “If a deal
is struck, the key question now will be the price tag for the
business, with previous talks held in 2009 coming to an end
after United Spirits were unhappy with Diageo’s assessment of
fair value.”  Kingfisher needs a  capital injection  of $600 million in the
next two months, industry consultant CAPA Centre for Aviation
said in August. Mallya gave 59 billion rupees of guarantees last
year to Kingfisher’s lenders, according to the company’s annual
report.  Cash Shortage  The carrier’s cash shortage has forced it to reduce
services and ground planes. Indian airlines have lost money
because of high fuel costs and a price war even as rising
disposable incomes boost travel.  “It is becoming increasingly urgent for UB Group to
refinance its subsidiaries,” Laetitia Delaye, an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets in Paris wrote. Selling a 25 percent to
26 percent stake in United Spirits to Diageo could free about
500 million pounds, she said.  United Spirits may benefit from the sale of shares to
Diageo, as it would get access to expertise and a wider
international distribution network for its own brands. Diageo
would gain access to India’s market for spirits, which was
estimated at $3.9 billion in 2011, according to Nomura.  Interstate Tariffs  The deal “would also enable Diageo to work more easily
around the complex structure of interstate tariffs in the
country due the way United Spirits is setup in each state,”
Shore Capital’s Carroll wrote. Foreign-made alcohol is taxed in
each state as well as on import to India and imported spirits
represent only 1 percent of the market as tariffs still make
them unaffordable for most consumers, according to Delaye at
Kepler.  United Spirits reported a group  loss  of 394 million rupees
in the quarter ended June 30, compared with a 1.1 billion-rupee
profit a year earlier. The company’s sales were lower in the
quarter due to the effect of an increase in excise duties in
West Bengal state in the last fiscal year, and because of lower
sales to the southern state of  Tamil Nadu , it said in a
statement.  Buyers paid a 23 percent premium on average in 227 global
wine and spirits deals announced over the last three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Diageo was the most
acquisitive company in the period.  Mallya declined to comment further on the situation after
the shareholder meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  