-- Dosayev Joins Business Partner Kapparov in Kazakh Government
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-09-25T15:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/dosayev-joins-business-partner-kapparov-in-kazakh-government-1-.html
Erbolat Dosayev was  named  Kazakh
economic development and trade minister, joining his business
partner Nurlan Kapparov, who was reappointed as environmental
protection minister in a new Cabinet.  President  Nursultan Nazarbayev  announced the makeup of the
Cabinet after Karim Massimov resigned as premier yesterday and
was replaced by Serik Akhmetov, prompting the formation of a new
government. Oil and Gas Minister Sauat Mynbayev, Finance
Minister Bolat Zhamishev, Deputy Prime Minister Kairat Kelimbetov and most other Cabinet members from the previous
government kept their posts, according to a  statement  published
on the president’s website today.  Dosayev replaces Bakytzhan Sagintayev, who  became  the
ruling Nur Otan party’s first deputy chairman yesterday. Dosayev
is Kapparov’s “close business associate,” according to the
 website  of Almaty-based Kazinvestbank, where both own  stakes .
Dosayev is the chairman of Kazinvestbank’s board, according to
its website.  Dosayev previously worked as health minister and Kapparov
served as a deputy energy minister, according to the  website  of
Lancaster Group, another company they co-own.  Lancaster Group has a stake in Ersai, a joint venture with
 Saipem SpA. (SPM)  The company worked to build a  hub island  for the
Kashagan field, a $46 billion project that’s seeking government
approval for another multi-billion expansion.  The reassignments by the Kazakh president will have
“little impact on the effectiveness, stability, or
predictability of  Kazakhstan ’s policy making and political
institutions” because of the control exerted by Nazarbayev,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a statement released today.  The central Asian nation’s BBB+ credit rating and outlook
are unaffected by yesterday’s resignation of Massimov and his
replacement with Akhmetov, S&P analysts Ana Jelenkovic and Kai Stukenbrock said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  