-- Draghi Rally Lets Skeptics Dump Spain for Bunds
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-09-25T07:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/draghi-rally-lets-skeptics-dump-spain-for-bunds.html
Mario Draghi has made it cheaper
for investors betting against a resolution of  Europe ’s debt
crisis to switch into top-rated government bonds.  The European Central Bank’s plan to buy the debt of cash-
strapped nations boosted Spanish bond values and cheapened
German debt. The price of the 1.75 percent bund repayable in
July 2022 dropped from 105.92 at the start of June to as low as
100.47 on Sept. 17. The dip in bund prices represents a buying
opportunity, according to BlueBay Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees $41 billion.  Demand for German debt, perceived to be among the safest
securities, is being sustained as Spain weighs a sovereign
bailout to supplement a 100-billion euro ($129 billion) bank
rescue package and as Europe’s economy slides toward recession.
While analysts have raised year-end forecasts for the 10-year
bund rate since the ECB outlined its strategy, the median year-
end estimate is 1.63 percent, compared with about 1.54 percent
currently and almost half the five-year average of 3 percent.  “We like bunds,” said Russel Matthews, a fund manager at
BlueBay in London who said he has a “small long position” in
German debt. “They are cheap around 1.60 percent. If Spain does
request a bailout bund yields won’t get that much higher because
of the fundamental backdrop.”  Yield Moves  German 10-year yields  matched a record 1.127 percent on
July 23, three days before Draghi promised to do “whatever it
takes” to defend the euro. The Sept. 6 announcement of a plan
to buy bonds of countries that request aid helped drive the rate
to 1.73 percent on Sept. 17, the most since April 26.  Spanish 10-year yields , which reached a euro-era high of
7.75 percent on July 25, have fallen more than 2 percentage
points to 5.69 percent, while Italian 10-year yields have
dropped to 5.07 percent from 6.71 percent that day.  The selloff in bunds may prove temporary, according to
strategists at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, who forecast
the rate will end the year at 1.50 percent. Money managers at
Frankfurt Trust Investment GmbH and Glendevon King Asset
Management said they may buy should yields reach 2 percent.  “By the end of the year things will have got a bit
worse,” said Nicola Marinelli, who oversees $160 million at
Glendevon King in  London . “There will be another wave of flight
to bunds and the rates may come back down to around 1.4
percent.”  Slower Growth  Even as policy makers strive to end the three-year debt
crisis, the region’s economic outlook is weakening. Euro-area
surveys on Sept. 20 showed services and manufacturing output
fell to a 39-month low in September adding to evidence the
economy is heading for a recession. Figures yesterday showed
German business confidence unexpectedly fell to the lowest in
more than two and a half years in September.  “We are in a period where the ECB has laid down its
framework to save the euro but the fundamentals will ultimately
creep back in and you will see new problems flare,” said
 Harvinder Sian , a fixed income strategist at RBS in London.
“Bunds will remain supported. I think 1.55 percent to 1.70
percent is a good entry location.”  Spain is in its second recession in three years,
endangering plans to trim its budget deficit and avoid a
bailout. The euro-region economy will probably shrink 0.4
percent this year, the ECB said this month.  Euro Gains  The euro also rallied following Draghi’s comments, climbing
5.2 percent against the dollar since July 26, and strengthening
by 4.5 percent against the yen.  “This is an opportunity to protect yourself,” said Bob Noyen, chief investment officer at  Record Plc (REC) , a London-based
currency manager that oversees about $31.5 billion. “Europe’s
big structural problems haven’t been resolved. There is a
significant amount of systemic risk in the system. We think
hedges will be potentially valuable.”  Record set up a fund in June 2011 designed to profit when
stress in Europe’s debt crisis intensifies. Noyen is using
forwards and options contracts to bet on further euro weakness,
he said.  Investors betting that Draghi’s strategy to tame borrowing
costs for  Italy  and Spain will succeed say increased appetite
for higher-yielding assets will damp demand for bunds.  “We think the bund yield will continue to rise
gradually,” said Nick Eisinger, a sovereign analyst with
Fidelity Investments in London, which oversees $1.6 trillion.
“Things appear to have stabilized in the euro-region, so
support for bunds has dissipated a little bit.”  German Costs  Greater fiscal integration between the euro’s 17 nations,
which would see  Germany  deploying its balance sheet to help
weaker countries, may also undermine bunds, Eisinger said,
decreasing the nation’s appeal as a haven.  The German 10-year yield remains historically low even as
central bank in the U.S. and  Japan  have pumped money into their
economies this month to boost growth. The Federal Reserve said
on Sept. 13 it would buy mortgage securities, while the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  unexpectedly added 10 trillion yen ($129 billion) to its
stimulus program on Sept. 19.  German bonds returned 2.6 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities added 2 percent and Italy’s earned 15 percent.  “As the bund yield rises you will see buyers coming in,”
said Werner Fey, a fund manager at Frankfurt Trust Investment
GmbH, which oversees 6.5 billion euros of fixed-income assets.
“All the liquidity provided from the central banks will also
help support core bond markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  