-- ECB’s Nowotny Says He Doesn’t See a Need to Cut Rates for Now
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-09-25T11:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/ecb-s-nowotny-says-he-doesn-t-see-a-need-to-cut-rates-for-now.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said he doesn’t see a need to cut
 interest rates  further at the moment.  “In the euro area at present I see no need for interest-
rate changes,” Nowotny, who heads  Austria ’s central bank, said
today in a live internet chat with Die Presse, an Austrian daily
newspaper.  Nowotny is the latest ECB policy maker to suggest that the
central bank may not lower rates at its next meeting on Oct. 4.
Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said on Oct. 23 it’s “not
absolutely obvious that another rate cut would be necessary” as
the economic outlook improves and inflation stays high.  The ECB in July cut the main refinancing rate to a record
low of 0.75 percent and economists expect another reduction by
the end of the year, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Policy makers in July also reduced the rate at which the
ECB remunerates excess overnight deposits to zero, raising the
prospect that a further cut in the benchmark might lead to a
negative deposit rate.  “Regarding the deposit facility, negative interest rates
would be theoretically possible, but practically, I think such a
perspective is neither desirable nor realistic,” Nowotny said.  The deposit rate has served as the de facto benchmark,
steering overnight market borrowing costs, since the ECB started
to provide banks with unlimited liquidity after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. That policy removed the
need for banks to borrow from each other to meet their  reserve
requirements , pushing down interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  