-- ECB’s Demetriades Says Single Bank Oversight Needed Urgently
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-09-25T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/ecb-s-demetriades-says-single-bank-oversight-needed-urgently.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Panicos Demetriades said  Europe ’s new common
supervisory mechanism for banks needs to be set up “as quickly
as possible.”  “Every effort should be made to move ahead as quickly as
possible based on a phasing-in approach as put forward in the
proposals,” Demetriades, who is Governor of the Central Bank of
Cyprus, said in a speech in Limassol today. The matter is urgent
“especially as the set-up of the single supervisory mechanism
has been made a precondition for the possible direct
recapitalization of banks” by Europe’s permanent bailout fund,
he said.  Cyprus is seeking to finalize the terms of a bailout it
requested on June 25, making it the fifth country to seek aid
since the  European debt crisis  began in 2010. Aid to help
recapitalize the Mediterranean island’s two largest banks may
hinge on leaders agreeing operational details for enhanced
supervisory duties to be taken on by the Frankfurt-based ECB. It
is currently due to assume those duties on Jan. 1, 2013.  “This new system, with the ECB at the core and involving
national supervisors, will help restore confidence in the
supervision of all banks in the euro area,” Demetriades said.
The timetable for implementing the European Commission’s
proposals by the end of 2012 “is ambitious but feasible,” he
said.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said on Sept. 15
that that deadline may not be reached as it takes time to build
the “sizeable apparatus” needed to oversee all 6,000 financial
institutions in the euro area, and hinted that banks may need to
undergo “stress tests” before being admitted to the new
system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  