-- Leeds Ousts Everton in League Cup as Villa Beats Manchester City
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-09-25T23:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/leeds-ousts-everton-in-league-cup-as-villa-beats-manchester-city.html
Leeds United upset Everton 2-1 in
the third round of English soccer’s League Cup, while Aston
Villa beat Manchester City 4-2 after extra time.  Aidan White and Rodolph Austin scored last night as Leeds
knocked the Premier League’s third-place team out of England’s
second-tier cup competition. Goals in extra time from  Charles N’Zogbia  and  Gabriel Agbonlahor  gave Villa the win at City.  “This was a top Everton side, to play like we did was
tremendous,” Leeds manager  Neil Warnock  told the British
Broadcasting Corp. “They wanted to win it, make no mistake, but
I think we deserved it on the night.”  The third round concludes tonight with six games, including
defending champion Liverpool at West Brom and Manchester United
hosting Newcastle. Reading visits Queens Park Rangers in a
matchup of the Premier League’s bottom two clubs.  White opened the scoring for second-tier Leeds in the
fourth minute and Austin doubled the advantage with 20 minutes
remaining. Although Sylvain Distin scored for Everton with nine
minutes left, the Toffees were unable to get the tying goal.  Manchester City took a 1-0 lead over Aston Villa on  Mario Balotelli ’s first-half goal. Villa tied it in the 59th minute
when  Gareth Barry  put the ball into his own net before City’s
Aleksandar Kolarov scored five minutes later with a free kick.  Agbonlahor scored in the 70th minute to force extra time
and sealed the win with his second goal with three minutes left
after N’Zogbia had put Villa 3-2 up in the 96th minute.  Six Goals  Chelsea routed Wolverhampton 6-0 on goals from Gary Cahill,
Ryan Bertrand,  Juan Mata , Oriol Romeu, Fernando Torres and
Victor Moses. Wigan rolled to a 4-1 win at West Ham as Mauro
Boselli scored twice and Ivan Ramis and Jordi Gomez added one
goal each.  Craig Gardner  and James McClean scored in the second half
to give Sunderland a 2-0 win at Milton Keynes Dons. League One’s
Swindon got goals from Paul Benson, Andy Williams and Troy
Archibald-Henville in beating Burnley of the Championship 3-1.  Gary Monk’s injury-time goal gave Swansea a 3-2 away win at
Crawley, two goals from Jay Rodriguez lifted Southampton over
Sheffield Wednesday 2-0, and Middlesbrough beat Preston 3-1.  In a matchup of teams in third-tier League Two, Bradford
beat Burton Albion in extra time 3-2, scoring all of its goals
after the 83rd minute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 