-- Egypt’s President Mursi Stops Short of Calling U.S. an Ally
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-09-25T14:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/egypt-s-president-mursi-stops-short-of-calling-u-s-an-ally.html
The U.S. is a friend to  Egypt ,
President Mohamed Mursi said in an interview in which he stopped
short of describing the Obama administration as an ally and
stressed the need for the U.S. to work to repair its image in
the Arab world.  In an interview with  Charlie Rose  for PBS, Mursi said the
two countries were friends, not enemies. Asked if that meant
they were allies, Mursi said it would depend “on the definition
of an ally,” according to a transcript of the interview in
which Mursi’s remarks are translated.  “If you mean by ‘ally’ a partnership and a special
diplomatic relationship and cooperation, we are that,” said the
Egyptian president, who is in  New York  to attend the  United
Nations General Assembly . The comments came after President
 Barack Obama  told Spanish-language Telemundo television on Sept.
12 he considers Egypt neither an ally nor an enemy.  Since being sworn into office on June 30, Mursi, who was
drawn from the ranks of the Muslim Brotherhood, has sought to
revive Egypt’s diplomatic standing in the region and has
stressed that relationships with other countries must be based
on mutual respect. Under ousted President  Hosni Mubarak , Egypt
received some $1.3 billion of military aid.  Mursi touched on the issue in the interview, saying the
protests in Cairo over a film denigrating Islam’s prophet
targeted the embassy because it was a symbol of the U.S.
government. The protests also built on a lingering sense of
frustration over perceived bias against Arabs and Muslims in the
past by the U.S., he said.  There was now an opportunity for Americans, Egyptians and
others to reflect on “how they see each other and respect one
another, and they respect each other’s religion and faith with
mutual respect,” Mursi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ; 