-- Teijin to Debut Dollar Loan on Falling Borrowing Costs, CFO Says
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2012-09-25T02:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/teijin-to-debut-dollar-loan-on-falling-borrowing-costs-cfo-says.html
Teijin Ltd. (3401) ,  Japan ’s second-largest
synthetic fiber maker, is planning its first U.S. dollar-
denominated syndicated loan to take advantage of the lower cost
of swapping greenback proceeds into yen.  The company plans to raise 30 billion yen ($385 million)
this week, split between dollar- and yen-denominated loans from
lenders including Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. and Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd., Chief Financial Officer Yoshihisa Sonobe
said Sept. 21 in an interview. The funds will be used to repay a
yen facility maturing this month, Sonobe said.  Teijin, whose fibers are used in products ranging from
bulletproof vests to Airbus SAS’ A380 superjumbo, may seek more
loans or sell corporate bonds ahead of schedule to help pay for
100 billion yen it plans to spend each year on capital
investments and acquisitions, Sonobe said. The five-year swap
rate averaged minus 76 basis points this year, compared with
minus 59 in 2011 and minus 39 the year before that, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The cost of financing is at a historical low,” Sonobe
said. “Our midterm business plan calls for a sizable increase
in investments and we are working on a financing structure for a
steady supply of funds.”  Borrowers typically use cross-currency basis swaps to
exchange floating-rate payments in one currency to another. The
Japanese yen basis swap measures the cost of switching interest
charges pegged to the dollar London interbank offered rate, or
Libor, for rates linked to yen Libor.  Factories, Equipment  The  fiber manufacturer  paid 0.9 percent on its long-term
debt last fiscal year ended March 31, compared with 2.1 percent
in the period to March 2008, according to company filings.
Teijin had 254.7 billion yen of interest-bearing  debt  as of the
end of June, the company said in a statement last month.  The borrowings include a 30 billion five-year  term loan 
maturing Sept. 27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
facility was priced to pay 5.5 basis points more than Libor, the
data show.  The Osaka-based company said in August spending on
factories and equipment will increase 55 percent to 50 billion
yen this fiscal year ending March 2013. Teijin’s mid-term
business plan unveiled in February calls for investments in
health care operations, such as pharmaceuticals and home nursing
care, and carbon fibers and composites, the lightweight
materials used in cars and golf club shafts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net ;
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  