-- Most Emerging Stocks Drop on Europe as Bovespa Retreats
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-25T21:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/emerging-stocks-drop-for-second-day-on-europe-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, with
Brazil’s Bovespa  index (VXEEM)  dropping the most since July 10, on
concern global growth will falter following discord on a debt
crisis resolution in Europe and a further slowdown in China.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slid 0.3 percent to
1,001.85. Brazil’s Bovespa stock index lost 2.3 percent with
 Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5)  leading the decline. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies slipped
0.2 percent as banks dropped after China’s money market rate
surged to a three-month high. Benchmark indexes in  Russia , South
Africa and  Hungary  dropped.  Disagreement has widened over how to stem Europe’s debt
woes, with discord on the establishment of a banking union,
Spain’s indecision on whether it needs a full rescue and
discussions in Greece on how to meet bailout commitments.
Developing nations send about 30 percent of their exports to the
European Union on average, according to data compiled by the
 World Trade Organization .  Standard & Poor’s  cut its outlook for
China’s economic expansion yesterday.  “Investors are waiting for Spain to ask for a bailout and
we are not seeing much for now, and markets are always concerned
about the slow European Union decision-making process,”  Gaelle
Blanchard , an  emerging-markets  strategist at Societe Generale
SA, said by phone from London. “At the same time, concerns
about the global growth outlook are still there.”  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, driooed 1.5
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 12 percent.  Brazil, China  The Bovespa retreated the most since plunging 3.1 percent
on July 10. Usinas, Brazil’s second-biggest steelmaker by
output, tumbled 11 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut
its recommendation to the equivalent of hold from buy. Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA, known as CSN, dropped 8.8 percent as a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said it hired
Bradesco BBI to advise on an acquisition of ThyssenKrupp AG’s
steel plant in Rio de Janeiro state.  China Shipping Development Co., a unit of China’s second-
biggest sea-cargo group, slid 5.4 percent.  China Construction
Bank (601939) , the nation’s second-biggest listed lender, dropped 0.5
percent in Shanghai. China Minsheng Banking Corp. sank 0.7
percent.  S&P cut its 2012 forecast for China’s growth by half a
percentage point to 7.5 percent, saying the government has not
introduced stimulus sufficient to sustain an 8 percent growth
rate. The government is concerned about re-igniting inflation
and a property bubble, the ratings company said in a statement
yesterday.  Repurchase Rate  The Chinese central bank added a record 290 billion  yuan 
($46 billion) to the financial system by using reverse-
 repurchase agreements , seeking to address a cash squeeze in the
run-up to a weeklong holiday.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, gained 19 basis points to 4.7 percent in
Shanghai, the highest level since June 28, according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center.  Russia’s Micex Index dropped 0.5 percent, reversing earlier
gains. Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  of stocks lost 0.2 percent, while
 South Africa ’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  fell for a third
day, sliding 0.5 percent.  Anglo American Plc (AGL)  declined 2.7 percent after  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT) , the world’s biggest construction and mining equipment
maker, cut its forecast for 2015 earnings.  Profit Forecast  Caterpillar said profit will be $12 to $18 a share,
compared with a previous projection of $15 to $20, after
commodity producers reduced  capital expenditures .  The broader developing nations gauge has climbed 9.3
percent this year, trailing a 12 percent increase in the MSCI
World Index of developed countries. The emerging-markets measure
trades at 11.3 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s multiple of 13.4, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  LG Display Co. (034220)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  dropped in  Seoul 
after brokerages downgraded the stocks on valuation concerns.
South Korea’s Kospi index lost 0.6 percent and the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.2 percent.  LG Display fell 2.8 percent, the biggest decline since July
25. The stock was cut to market-perform from outperform at
Sanford Bernstein & Co. LG Electronics sank 5.4 percent. The
company was downgraded to underperform from neutral at Credit
Suisse Group AG.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  increased three basis points to 303,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  