-- Merkel Says Joint Liability Won’t Mean Happiness
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-09-25T10:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/merkel-says-joint-liability-won-t-mean-euro-area-happiness.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said other euro-area countries can’t expect her to support the
“false happiness” of shared liability to stem the debt crisis
because the root causes have become clear to everyone.  Almost three years into the financial crisis that is
tugging at the currency union, Merkel said policy makers agree
with her assessment that the causes of the “crisis of
confidence” in the euro area are excessive debt and gaps in
competitiveness.  “This analysis is, I believe, generally shared,” the
chancellor said in a speech to the annual meeting of  Germany ’s
BDI industry association in Berlin. “That’s already something.
If you want to solve a problem, you at least have to be on the
same basis when you ask about the cause. This wasn’t always the
case at the start.”  While “calls for mutualization” are misguided and would
lead to “fatally wrong incentives,” a united Europe is worth
defending, she said. “But this good fortune can’t lead to a
false happiness where we look into each other’s eyes and smile
without talking about the real problems. The more united we are,
the more honest we have to be with each other.”  Draghi, Lagarde  Merkel was speaking before she hosts European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  for talks at the Chancellery in Berlin to
be followed tomorrow by a meeting with International Monetary
Fund chief  Christine Lagarde . The crisis talks take place as
 Spain  deliberates over requesting a bailout and leaders await a
report into  Greece ’s finances by the so-called troika of
monitors: the IMF, the ECB and the European Commission.  Addressing the audience of German executives and
politicians, Merkel stuck by her stance that joint policies to
combat the crisis require an increase in joint oversight. The
“right sequence of events” must be followed and “that’s why
we still have a lot of tasks ahead of us.”  BDI head Hans-Peter Keitel said the industry group backs
Merkel’s stance of seeking to preserve the euro while imposing
strict conditions.  “Madame Chancellor, we are watching your political and
personal engagement for  Europe  with respect, appreciation and
gratitude,” Keitel said in his conference speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka ion Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  