-- Tesla Tumbles as Outlook Cut, Loan May Need to Be Amended
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-09-25T20:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/tesla-tumbles-as-outlook-cut-loan-may-need-to-be-amended.html
Tesla Motors Inc., the electric-car
maker led by  Elon Musk , fell the most in eight months after
cutting its revenue outlook for the third quarter because of
supplier shortcomings and other delays in accelerating
production of its Model S sedan.  Tesla slid 9.8 percent to $27.66 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest decline since Jan. 13. The company, based in  Palo
Alto ,  California , said in a  regulatory filing  today that it
expects $44 million to $46 million in third-quarter sales,
compared with the $83.1 million average of 12 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Musk last week in an interview
declined to confirm that the company will deliver 5,000 of its
Model S sedans this year.  Tesla (TSLA)  now expects to deliver 200 to
225 Model S cars in the third quarter and 2,500 to 3,000 in the
fourth. Tesla forecast that gross margin will turn positive in
the fourth quarter as production accelerates.  “Elon Musk is very concerned about quality,” said Alan Baum, principal of auto-industry forecaster Baum & Associates in
West Bloomfield,  Michigan . “He’s been driving every vehicle off
the line. That’s an indicator of how important that quality
issue is to him. He’s going to deal with those quality issues
before the vehicles are out the door.”  The company said in its filing that its “main focus is on
quality, we have methodically increased our Model S production
at a rate slower than we had earlier anticipated. Certain
suppliers have experienced delays in meeting our demand and we
continue to focus on supplier capabilities and constraints.”  The electric-car maker also said it’s making an all-new car
“with new employees using new equipment.” Tesla now forecasts
full-year revenue of $400 million to $440 million, down from
$560 million to $600 million.  Quality Concern  Quality issues tied to suppliers have dogged Fisker
Automotive Inc.’s Karma, which failed to win a recommendation
from  Consumer Reports . The magazine’s tests showed flaws in the
luxury plug-in hybrid’s interior design and reliability.  “Tesla is mindful of what’s happened with Fisker and
they’re very concerned that there are no hiccups in their
launch,” Baum said.  The company continues to “expect to be close to free cash
flow break-even at the end of 2012’s fourth quarter,” Jeff Evanson, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Already the company’s  largest shareholder , Musk may buy
33,311 more shares, the company said in a related filing. Tesla,
whose investors include  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) , said
it now expects to exceed its plan to produce 20,000 of the
electric cars next year, when it projected it would earn its
first profit.  Energy Department  The company amended its loan agreement with the U.S. Energy
Department and may need to do so again if it fails to raise
enough money from investors.  “We currently anticipate that without raising capital in
addition to this offering, we would need to seek an amendment
from the DOE to modify the total liabilities to stockholder
equity covenant for the quarter ending March 31, 2014, and the
two subsequent quarters,” the company said in the filing.  Tesla has said it plans to begin repaying its Energy
Department loans in the fourth quarter. There are no changes to
payment terms, Evanson said in the e-mail.  CFO’s Comments  “Given the growth of Tesla and as they look at our
business plan and see the amount of cash we will generate, they
would like to explore possibilities that would result in a
repayment earlier than 10 years, when we are in a financially
sound situation and have access to multiple capital markets
alternatives,” Deepak Ahuja, Tesla’s chief financial officer,
said today in a phone interview.  In a separate filing, Tesla said it plans to sell 4.34
million additional shares and expects to receive net proceeds of
$128.3 million, or $147.6 million if the underwriter,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , exercises its option to purchase additional
shares in full.  An additional offering “could alleviate capital concerns
that have increased in recent quarters,”  Amir Rozwadowski , a
Barclays Plc analyst, said in a report today in which he
restated his overweight rating on the shares.  “While the company’s reduced near-term production outlook
does elevate concerns on its ability to ramp manufacturing, we
do not believe it is wholly unexpected,” Rozwadowski said,
owing to the company’s “aggressive” production schedule for
2012’s fourth quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  