-- Tesla Builds $250,000 Fast Chargers for Model S
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-09-25T20:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/tesla-building-250-000-chargers-for-model-s-drivers-in-highways.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the electric-car
company led by  Elon Musk , is building a network of solar-powered
rapid-charge stations on major U.S. highways to expand the
driving range for owners of its cars at no cost to them.  Tesla has installed the first six of its so-called
superchargers on highways in  California , Nevada and Arizona,
Musk said late yesterday at its design studio in Hawthorne,
California. The system recharges Tesla’s Model S sedan at a 100-
kilowatt rate, providing power for three hours of highway
driving within just 30 minutes, the company said.  The system provides “a level of convenience equivalent to
gasoline cars for all practical purposes,” said Chief Executive
Officer Musk, who is also the Palo Alto, California-based
company’s  biggest shareholder . “We are giving Model S the
ability to drive almost anywhere for free on pure sunlight.”  A network of fast-charge devices on U.S. highways is a way
to overcome the problem of limited range, one of the challenges
automakers cite for battery-powered cars. Tesla, named for
inventor  Nikola Tesla , wants to become profitable as early as
next year from sales of its $57,400 Model S and by supplying
battery packs and motors to investors Daimler AG and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)   Tesla fell the most in eight months after saying in a
filing that it won’t reach a target of delivering 5,000 Model S
sedans this year because of supplier shortcomings.  Musk had declined to discuss the goal in a Sept. 21
interview on Bloomberg Television. Musk reiterated his intention
to deliver at least 20,000 Model S sedans next year and achieve
a gross profit margin of more than 25 percent.  $250,000 Chargers  Tesla’s rocket-shaped superchargers are designed to work
only with versions of Model S with 85-kilowatt-hour battery
packs that allow the cars to go more than 200 miles per charge.  The devices cost about $250,000 each and can power four to
six cars at one time, Musk said. Tesla plans to install 100 of
these superchargers at a cost of $20 million to $30 million over
the next three to four years, he said.  Following the first six charging stations, with power
supplied by SolarCity Corp., a Musk-backed solar panel
installer, Tesla said it plans to install superchargers in busy
traffic corridors across the U.S., “enabling fast, purely
electric travel from Vancouver to  San Diego , Miami to Montreal
and  Los Angeles  to  New York .”  Tesla said it also plans to begin opening superchargers in
Europe and  Asia  in the second half of 2013.  Tesla fell 9.8 percent to $27.66 the close in New York. The
shares have declined 3.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  