-- Tesla Told to Speed Repayment of U.S. Electric-Car Loan
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-09-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/tesla-told-to-speed-repayment-of-u-s-electric-car-loan.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the startup
electric car-maker that received $465 million in U.S. Energy
Department loans, must come up with a speedier repayment
schedule after getting a waiver on existing terms.  The  Palo Alto , California-based company, led by billionaire
Elon Musk, said yesterday in a U.S. regulatory  filing  that it
has until Oct. 31 to submit a proposal for “early repayment”
of loan principal to the Energy Department.  Tesla said it received a waiver Sept. 24 from a requirement
in the previous loan agreement to maintain a specified  current
ratio  of assets to liabilities, which measures a company’s
ability to repay its debts in the next 12 months.  “The department worked with Tesla on a minor technical
change to the loan agreement that includes the company
submitting a plan to accelerate repayment of the loan,”  Damien LaVera , an Energy Department spokesman, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “Tesla has made loan payments on time and in full.”  Tesla will meet the deadline for the revised payment plan
and will be able to pay back loans in less than the existing 10-
year term if it becomes profitable ahead of schedule, said
Deepak Ahuja, the company’s chief financial officer.  Tesla, which sells two models of plug-in cars, has yet to
turn a profit.  “They would like to explore possibilities that would
result in a repayment earlier than 10 years, when we are in a
financially sound situation and have access to multiple capital-
markets alternatives,” Ahuja said in a phone interview.  “It’s not time-bound,” he said. “It’s more of metrics-
based approach. That’s what makes sense for the DOE and us. DOE
obviously will not do anything to force us to pay while in the
process injuring us.”  Revenue Shortfall  Asked if the DOE’s request indicated concern, Ahuja said,
“No, the opposite. If you think about it, they have allowed us
to draw down the entire loan as recently as four weeks ago. They
are willing to work with us on covenants. They recognize the
original covenant was done four years ago and the world has
changed since then.”  Tesla disclosed the loan amendment yesterday as it cut its
revenue outlook for the third quarter because of supplier
shortcomings and other delays in accelerating production of its
second vehicle, the Model S sedan.  The company said it expects to generate $44 million to $46
million in third-quarter  sales , compared with the $83.1 million
average of 12 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. It
forecast full-year revenue of $400 million to $440 million, down
from $560 million to $600 million.  The modification follows another in February that changed
terms of the loan the Energy Department gave in May 2010.  Tesla yesterday fell $3.00, or 9.8 percent, to $27.66, in
the biggest daily drop since Jan. 13.  December Payment  The U.S. loan program, intended to spur development of more
environmentally friendly cars, also gave money to  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , Nissan Motor Co., Fisker Automotive Inc. and Vehicle
Production Group LLC.  The program, particularly the Fisker loan, has drawn
criticism from congressional Republicans including vice
presidential candidate  Paul Ryan , who is chairman of the House
Budget Committee, and Iowa Republican Senator  Charles Grassley .  “Ensuring that the taxpayer is repaid in full should be
standard operating procedure,” Grassley said in an e-mail,
commenting about the loan program in general.  ‘Extra Consideration’  “My concern is that as more government-backed ventures
begin to have difficulty paying back their loans, there are no
clear standards that determine which companies get extra
consideration, which are pressed to pay the loan, and which seem
to be allowed to continue without much expectation to repay in a
timely way,” Grassley  said.  Tesla has said it will begin repaying loan principal in
December, as required under the lending agreement. Its repayment
schedule for interest on the loan began in February, according
to yesterday’s filing.  The company, which went public the month after receiving
its loan, said in yesterday’s filing it needs to raise
additional capital to avoid having to seek another amendment to
the lending terms.  Tesla said in a separate filing yesterday that it’s
planning to sell 4.34 million additional shares and expects to
receive net proceeds of $128.3 million, or $147.6 million if the
underwriter,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , exercises its option to
purchase additional shares in full.  “We currently anticipate that without raising capital in
addition to this offering, we would need to seek an amendment
from the DOE to modify the total liabilities to stockholder
equity covenant for the quarter ending March 31, 2014, and the
two subsequent quarters,” the company said in the filing.  The plan to raise more money “should be unsurprising to
investors and in fact could alleviate capital concerns that have
increased in recent quarters,” said  Amir Rozwadowski , a
Barclays Plc analyst, said in a report yesterday. He rates Tesla
shares “overweight.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  