-- ESMA May Win Securities-Banning Powers in EU Market-Rule Shakeup
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-25T14:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/esma-may-win-securities-banning-powers-in-eu-market-rule-shakeup.html
European Union regulators may win
powers to ban new financial instruments before they are put on
sale and to force traders to reduce existing positions as part
of an overhaul of the bloc’s market rules.  Lawmakers in the European Parliament will vote tomorrow on
the compromise proposals, which also include curbs on high-
frequency trading and speculation in commodities, according to
documents obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Under the plans, the European Securities and Markets
Authority, or ESMA, would be empowered to “pro-actively
investigate” financial instruments before they are marketed,
and ban them if they pose a “significant threat,” according to
a copy of the proposals drawn up by officials following talks
between the assembly’s political groups.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
wants enhanced powers for regulators to police the marketing of
complex financial products in a bid to bolster stability, and
prevent a repeat of recent cases of misselling.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest bank, said this year
that it is setting aside $240 million to compensate customers
who were missold  interest-rate swaps  that later lost them
money.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Lloyds Banking Group Plc set aside a
total of 5.6 billion pounds ($9.1 billion) to compensate clients
sold payment protection insurance they didn’t need.  The European Commission declined to immediately comment on
the compromise plan.  Under the parliament plans, ESMA, which coordinates the
work of securities regulators in the 27-nation EU, would be able
to ban products for reasons of investor protection or to ensure
“the orderly functioning and integrity of financial markets,”
according to the documents.  Position Elimination  The agency could also force traders to scale back or
“eliminate” a position in the markets, in cases where
financial stability was imperiled and national regulators had
failed to act.  The parliament measures are part of an overhaul of the EU’s
financial market legislation, known as Mifid. The plans must be
approved by the assembly and by national governments before they
can take effect.  In addition to the ESMA powers, lawmakers may also approve
curbs on high-frequency trading, including fees for large
numbers of canceled orders, according to the documents.  Still, the parliament may give only limited support to an
attempt by Barnier to boost competition in clearing of
derivatives, according to the documents.  While exchanges should, as a rule, be required to supply
their trade data to rival clearinghouses, these requests would
have to be assessed for any risk they may pose to financial
stability, according to the documents.  The parliament will also oppose so-called interoperability
arrangements between clearing firms, and will veto plans from
Barnier to boost access to information used to compile market
benchmark rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  