-- Test of French Millionaire Tax Is What Hollande Gets in Return
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-09-25T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/test-of-french-millionaire-tax-is-what-hollande-gets-in-return.html
The success of French President
 Francois Hollande ’s millionaire tax may hinge on what he gets
labor unions to concede in return.  Hollande’s election pledge to tax income of more than 1
million euros ($1.29 million) at a rate of 75 percent will be
detailed when the 2013 budget is presented on Sept. 28 in Paris.
The levy may allow him to squeeze out concessions to reduce unit
labor costs that are among the highest in  Europe  and make the
work environment more flexible.  “Hollande has to give something serious to the left, so
they can bank it, and say this is why it’s worth having a
Socialist president,” Alex White, an economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  London , said in an interview. “If it turns out
that in five years’ time there’s been serious structural reform
as the flip side of the tax, maybe it will turn out to be a
long-term positive.”  Entrepreneurs and opposition politicians say the levy will
drive talent and capital out of France and worsen the country’s
 economic slump . Yet confronted with plunging poll ratings and a
mutinous support base as he struggles to cut France’s budget
deficit, Hollande may be able to use the tax as leverage to push
through unpopular labor measures.  Since returning from his summer holiday six weeks ago,
Hollande has promised to reduce France’s budget deficit,
implement a European fiscal treaty and press unions to accept
increased labor flexibility by year end. Over that period, his
approval rating dropped by 11 points to 43 percent, according to
an Ifop poll released this week.  ‘Symbolic Step’  Hollande also has rebellious lawmakers in his own party
opposing the ratification of the euro area’s deficit-capping
fiscal pact and faces a call from the CGT union for protests
against austerity on Oct. 9.  The president’s budget comes against a backdrop of an
economy that hasn’t grown in three quarters and joblessness that
is at a 13-year high. He is struggling to plug a budget hole of
more than 30 billion euros for next year.  Displeasure within Hollande’s political base has given the
millionaire tax added significance even though economists
estimate it will raise just 200 million euros out of a total of
20 billion euros in tax increases.  “We consider it a largely symbolic step that reflects the
mindset of the Socialist Party,” said Pierre-Olivier Beffy,
chief economist at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris. “This measure is
in keeping with the platform of tax justice on which Francois
Hollande campaigned.”  ‘Competitiveness Shock’  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said this month
that the 75 percent tax will remain in place for two years.  “Those that got very rich over the past period can help in
a patriotic way to turn around the country,” he said in an
interview on RTL radio.  French billionaire  Bernard Arnault , chief executive officer
of LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, said this month that
he’s seeking Belgian citizenship, while insisting he wasn’t
doing it to escape the 75 percent tax. Some French executives
say the levy is bearable for a limited time as long as Hollande
works to improve French competitiveness at the same time.  “France is in an exceptional situation that requires
exceptional measures, so it’s very natural that everybody
contributes, and that those who can do more contribute more than
those who can’t,”  Vinci SA (DG)  CEO Xavier Huillard said last week.
The government also needs to stabilize “the regulatory, fiscal
and social framework” to encourage investment, he said.  Sticky Labor  Corporate investment, which drove France’s recovery from
the last recession since 2009, is now declining, according to
national statistics office Insee. Investment fell 1.4 percent in
the first quarter and 0.1 percent in the second quarter and will
probably be flat for the rest of this year, Insee estimates.  In July, French business leaders urged Hollande to give
Europe’s second-largest economy a “competitiveness shock.”
 Louis Gallois , former CEO of European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co, called for cuts in taxes and social charges of as much
as 50 billion euros. “It has to be quite massive,” he said.  France has the euro area’s second-highest unit cost of
labor after  Belgium , according to an April 2012 Eurostat report.
France’s cost of 34.20 euros an hour compares with  Germany ’s
30.10 euros,  Italy ’s 26.80 euros and 20.60 euros for  Spain .  Companies also say one of the biggest obstacles to hiring
is the “Code du Travail,” a 3,200-page labor rulebook that
decrees everything from job classifications to leave for
training to the ability to fire.  As Hollande seeks ways to make  France  more competitive, his
“social justice” pledge is driving him to show he will make
the rich pay, too.  Receipts from the 75 percent tax are unlikely to make a
significant dent in France’s budget deficit, which stood at 5.2
percent of gross domestic product last year and is targeted by
the government to fall to 3 percent next year.  Even before being elected, Hollande said that cash
generation wasn’t the point of the millionaire tax.  “This measure isn’t intended to bring a single euro into
the coffers of the state,” Hollande said campaigning in Lyon on
March 1. Instead, dealing with the “shocking” levels of pay
“is quite simply about patriotism,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  