-- EU Calls for ‘Strong Signal’ From ICAO on Carbon Emission
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-09-25T17:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/eu-calls-for-strong-signal-from-icao-on-carbon-emission.html
European Union Climate Commissioner
 Connie Hedegaard  called on the  United Nations ’ aviation body to
accelerate the design of a global rule to curtail greenhouse-gas
emissions from aircraft operators.  The EU, which is seeking to lead the global fight against
 climate change , included foreign airlines in its emissions-
trading market this year after international organizations
failed to enact pollution curbs. The UN International Civil
Aviation Organization opposes the move, arguing it’s in the best
position to regulate emissions from carriers.  “There are so many countries saying they want an
international regulation,” Hedegaard said in an interview
during a conference at Bloomberg LP’s headquarters in New York
today. “The first chance to show that, and also for the ICAO
leadership to show that, is at their next meeting in November.
There ICAO has the possibility of sending a very strong signal
that they really want to work seriously on a global deal.”  Hedegaard’s comments at a Climate Week NYC event follow an
adoption by the  U.S. Senate  last week of a bill that would
effectively shield the country’s airlines from participation in
the EU emissions trading system, also known as the ETS.  The bill, supported by the airlines, must be reconciled
with similar legislation passed by the U.S. House of
Representatives last year. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood
has said the Obama administration hasn’t taken a position on the
bill, and in June said the government “strongly opposes” the
EU plan.  European Flights  The expansion of the ETS into flights to and from European
airports also triggered opposition from countries including
China and  Russia , which said  Europe  should let the ICAO decide
on greenhouse-gas limits for the industry.  The EU has repeatedly said that while its law enables the
exemption of incoming flights from a country if it implements
“equivalent measures” to tackle pollution from aviation, the
27-nation bloc won’t give up the inclusion of aviation in its
carbon cap-and-trade market.  Under the EU ETS, airlines beginning in 2013 must surrender
allowances equal to their emissions in the prior year. The
airlines were given free allowances for about 85 percent of
their emissions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net 
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net 
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  