-- EU Rejects U.S. Claims in WTO Case Involving Boeing
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-09-25T20:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/eu-rejects-u-s-claims-in-wto-case-involving-boeing.html
The European Union has challenged a
U.S. assertion that it complied with a World Trade Organization
ruling on government support for  Boeing Co. (BA) , escalating its
protest in the case.  An EU review of the U.S.’s Sept. 23 compliance filing
“suggests that the U.S. has neither withdrawn the illegal
subsidies granted to Boeing, nor removed their adverse
effects,” the European Commission, the union’s executive arm,
said today in a  statement  that said it seeking formal
consultations on the matter.  The dispute between the U.S. and EU is part of a long-
running rift over government support for aircraft subsidies. WTO
judges in March determined that Chicago-based Boeing received
U.S. subsidies of at least $2.6 billion. The WTO has also
determined that Boeing’s competitor Airbus SAS has received
illegal subsidies.  “We remain confident that the actions we announced on
Sept. 23 have brought us into full compliance with our WTO
obligations,” Andrea Mead, a USTR spokeswoman, said in an e-
mailed statement. “We are still carefully reviewing the EU’s
consultations request, but based on our initial review, the EU
simply does not account for many of the changes announced by the
 United States .”  The U.S. is ready to begin discussions on the EU’s
concerns, she said.  The two sides have 15 days to enter into talks to resolve
the dispute, according the European Commission’s statement.
After that, the EU can ask for a WTO panel to review the issue.  While the U.S. has complied with the trade arbiter’s
ruling, Airbus and government supporters in  Europe  “have
thumbed their noses at the WTO” by keeping subsidies in place,
according to a Sept. 23  statement  from Boeing. It declined to
comment on the EU request for consultations.  An Airbus spokeswoman didn’t immediately return a request
for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  