-- EU Revives Plans to End Limits on Foreign Airline Stakes
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-09-25T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/eu-revives-plans-to-end-limits-on-foreign-airline-stakes.html
The European Commission said it
will revive plans to weaken restrictions on airline acquisitions
and mergers, especially between carriers in  Europe  and the U.S.  Rules that bar foreign ownership above certain levels are
limiting access to investors and  capital markets , the Europe
Union’s regulatory arm said in a statement, adding that cross-
border consolidation could make the industry more sustainable.  While outside ownership is capped at 49 percent in the EU,
with  member states  keen to ease the limit further, the U.S. has
a 25 percent ceiling. President  Barack Obama ’s administration
agreed in 2010 to engage in a process paving the way for foreign
control after the issue was separated from an “open-skies”
treaty that deregulated trans-Atlantic flights in 2008.  “Current ownership and control restrictions, applied by
most countries, deny carriers access to important sources of new
capital,” the commission said. “It is now time to address this
issue more vigorously and to take the additional steps envisaged
in the EU-U.S. air transport agreement.”  The EC said it will also seek to ensure the openness of
airline markets, including the adoption of more effective
instruments to prevent unfair practices. It plans to negotiate
aviation agreements with countries including  Russia ,  China  and
 India  to help bolster the market share of European carriers.  “Faced with the dramatic changes in global aviation,
Europe must respond and adapt rapidly or be left behind,”
Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas said in the statement.  Europe is also being hurt by under-investment in airports,
the commission said. Bottlenecks should be identified at an
early stage and removed or limited “by using all means available
to use scarce airport capacity more efficiently,” it said.  The EC plans to consult with ministers from member states
in December and propose its priorities for negotiating mandates
early in 2013. Ownership caps will also be discussed at an
International Civil Aviation Organization conference in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  