-- EU Solar Makers Demand China Tariffs With Second Complaint
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-09-25T17:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/eu-solar-companies-demand-china-tariffs-with-subsidy-complaint.html
European Union solar-panel makers,
which persuaded regulators to probe Chinese companies for unfair
pricing, stepped up demands for tariffs, accusing their rivals
of receiving illegal subsidies.  EU ProSun, an industry group led by Germany’s  Solarworld
AG (SWV) , filed an anti-subsidy complaint today at the European
Commission in Brussels, Milan Nitzschke, the group’s president,
said in an interview. EU ProSun says that Chinese exporters of
solar panels benefit from trade-distorting government aid.  “China seeks a monopoly in the solar sector and subsidizes
the local industry with billions,” Nitzschke said in an e-
mailed statement. “That’s leading to overcapacities and ruinous
price competition.”  On Sept. 6, the commission, the EU’s trade authority,
started to investigate whether Chinese manufacturers sold solar
panels and the cells and wafers used in them in the 27-nation
bloc below cost, a practice known as dumping. EU ProSun
initiated the case, the biggest of its kind in  Europe  covering
21 billion euros ($27 billion) of EU imports, with a complaint
filed in July.  The two complaints highlight European concerns about the
expansion of Chinese solar companies led by  Suntech Power
Holdings Co. (STP) , which have grabbed market share from European
rivals that were once dominant. They follow a U.S. decision
earlier this year to impose anti-dumping duties as high as 250
percent on the Chinese industry.  The impact on manufacturers would be “far, far worse”
than U.S. actions because Europe consumed a majority of the
world’s panels last year, said Aaron Chew, an analyst at Maxim
Group LLC in  New York .  Hurt Jobs  Chinese companies including Yingli Green Energy Co. and
Suntech, the world’s biggest panel-maker, have in the past
denied engaging in unfair trade activities. Trade barriers such
as duties imposed on solar panels would only slow the expansion
of clean-energy sources and hurt jobs in Europe’s solar
industry, Shi Zhengrong, Suntech’s executive chairman and chief
strategy officer, said Sept. 6.  EU ProSun says Chinese companies benefit from unfair
government aid including “nearly unlimited” state-owned bank
financing. “The loans are often not paid back, or are paid back
via additional loans or directly by the state,” Nitzschke said.  China Development Bank Corp., which is state-owned and
lends to promote official policies, has extended $43.2 billion
in credit lines to 12 Chinese solar companies since 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Politically Sensitive  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  highlighted the political
sensitivity of the dispute during a visit last month to Beijing,
telling reporters “it would be better to solve this in talks.”  Comments from officials show they want to negotiate and may
not want to impose trade sanctions, said Chew. “It’s hard to
believe Germany would allow the collateral damage if this
erupted into a broader trade war.”  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and  Solon SE (SOO1)  once were “critical solar
companies” and are now foreign-owned and less important to the
German economy, said Chew.  Robert Bosch GmbH ,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG employ more people and are “even
more critical,” he said. The adverse effect upon such companies
may outweigh the potential benefit that tariffs may provide to
 Germany ’s struggling solar companies.  Solarworld gained 2 percent to 1.35 euros at the close in
 Frankfurt .  U.S. Levies  In addition to anti-dumping duties, the U.S. introduced
anti-subsidy levies against China’s solar industry earlier this
year.  While China faces more EU anti-dumping duties than any
other nation, the bloc has so far applied anti-subsidy levies
against Chinese goods only once -- on paper. Two separate probes
that were opened earlier this year and continue could lead to
European anti-subsidy duties on Chinese bicycles and steel.  The commission has 45 days to decide whether to open an
inquiry that may lead to anti-subsidy tariffs on shipments of
the renewable-energy goods from  China . As in a dumping case, the
commission has nine months from the start of any investigation
to decide on provisional measures.  EU governments have 13 months from the beginning of a
subsidy probe -- rather than the 15 months for dumping cases --
to impose “definitive” anti-subsidy duties for five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  