-- Dollar Rises as Fed Official’s Comments Mute U.S. Economic Data
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-25T21:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/euro-rises-after-ecb-s-nowotny-doubts-rate-cut-rand-gains.html
The dollar rose to an almost two-
week high against the euro as a Federal Reserve official’s
comment the central bank actions won’t boost economic growth
outweighed better-than-forecast data on U.S.  home prices  and
consumer confidence.  The euro gained versus the U.S. currency earlier after
European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny
said he doesn’t see a need to cut interest rates further at the
moment. South Africa’s rand rallied for a third day as investors
bought the nation’s assets before an anticipated interest-rate
cut.  Australia ’s dollar fell against all its most-traded
counterparts as global stocks and commodities erased gains.  “The data from the U.S. today was relatively positive and
finally we saw some life in the housing market,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in New York. “Investors are getting more comfortable with the
issues of the European periphery; we’re going to enter a phase
where investors refocus on growth differentials and what that
means for the dollar.”  The dollar gained 0.3 percent to $1.2899 per euro at 5 p.m.
 New York  time, reaching the strongest level since Sept. 13. The
U.S. currency fell 0.1 percent to 77.80 yen. The Japanese
currency added 0.3 percent to 100.36 per euro.  Euro Rally  The shared currency has rallied against all its major
counterparts this month, adding to a year-to-date 0.7 percent
gain versus the yen.  Barclays Plc raised its forecasts for the euro against the
dollar, citing central-bank measures that have negatively
affected the greenback and helped the shared currency
appreciate. The bank said it expects the euro to reach $1.35 by
the end of 2012, up from its previous forecast of $1.20,
according to a research report.  The 17-nation currency will slide to $1.27 by year-end,
according to the median of bank forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The euro has dropped 0.7 percent in the past week, the
worst performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as investors consider
how much the ECB will spend purchasing debt of peripheral
nations. The yen was the biggest gainer, rising 2 percent. The
dollar advanced 0.5 percent.  The ECB cut the main refinancing rate in July to a record
low of 0.75 percent and economists forecast another reduction by
the end of the year, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Rate Speculation  “There has been speculation that an  interest-rate  cut
would be coming in October as the ECB tries to ease policy
further,” said Eimear Daly, a currency market analyst at Monex
Europe Ltd. in  London . “The market wants  Spain  to ask for a
bailout. The market will start to test Spain and force them in
to a bailout, which is ultimately euro positive.”  The yield on three-month Spanish debt auctioned today was
1.203 percent, compared with 0.946 percent at a previous sale on
Aug. 28.  Data showed German and French business confidence remained
static as Italian sentiment stayed near a 15-year low, limited
the euro’s gains versus the yen, after it touched a two-week low
earlier.  The euro will find so-called support at 100.15 yen, the
38.2 percent Fibonacci retracement of its July-September
advance, technical analysts at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , including
 David Sneddon , wrote in an e-mailed note.  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that prices rise
or fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low.  Dollar Falls  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six U.S. trading partners,  rose  0.2 percent
79.672. It reached 78.601 on Sept. 14, the lowest level since
February.  Economic research indicates that additional asset purchases
are “unlikely to reduce long-term interest rates by a
significant amount” and that lowering rates “by a few more
basis points” won’t spur growth and hiring, said Fed Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser , who doesn’t have a vote
on policy this year.  The Conference Board’s  consumer confidence  index increased
to 70.3 this month from 61.3 in August, figures from the New
York-based private research group showed today. The September
figure exceeded the most optimistic projection of economists,
whose median estimate in a Bloomberg survey called for 63.1.  Home prices in the U.S. climbed in July from a year
earlier, adding to signs that housing will spur economic growth.
The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
increased 1.2 percent from July 2011, the biggest 12-month
advance since August 2010, a report from the group showed today
in New York. The median forecast of 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 1.1 percent gain.  Rand Gains  South Africa ’s rand advanced against all its major
counterparts. The South African Reserve Bank lowered its
forecast for economic growth this year on Sept. 20, when it left
the benchmark repo rate unchanged at 5 percent while Governor
Gill Marcus said the risk was for slower growth as she left the
door open for a rate cut.  Foreign investors bought a net 2.6 billion rand ($317
million) of South African bonds in the week through Sept. 21,
bringing total purchases this year to $73.1 billion, the most in
a single year on record, according to JSE Ltd.  data .  The rand rose 0.1 percent to 8.2319 per dollar.  Hungary’s forint weakened for a second day as the nation’s
central bank cut its benchmark interest rate for a second month
in a row, reduced its economic growth forecasts and raised
projections for inflation.  Hungary’s currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 284.67 per
euro.  Chile’s peso advanced the most in two months as optimism in
 China  and the U.S. spurred an advance in commodities including
copper, the South American country’s biggest export.  It appreciated 1.2 percent to 470.24 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  