-- Euro Declines to 2-Week Low on Spain Growth Concern
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-26T21:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/euro-near-2-week-low-italy-retail-data-may-signal-slump.html
The euro fell to a two-week low
against the dollar after  Spain ’s bonds dropped and the central
bank said gross domestic product declined this quarter, stoking
concern the region’s debt crisis is worsening.  The 17-nation currency weakened for a seventh day against
the yen after finance ministers from  Germany , the Netherlands
and  Finland  said  Europe ’s rescue fund should assume a limited
role in banking recapitalizations. The dollar and yen rose
against their most-traded counterparts on speculation central
banks around the world will struggle to revive growth, spurring
demand for safer assets. Sweden’s krona declined after a report
showed  consumer confidence  fell more than economists forecast.  “These latest headlines weighing on the euro relate to the
implementation risk you face when big promises are made,” Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview. “Add that to the list of things you’ve
seen along with unrest in Spain and  Greece .”  The euro depreciated 0.2 percent to $1.2873 at 5 p.m. New
York time, reaching the weakest level since Sept. 12. The shared
currency dropped 0.3 percent to 100.08 yen, extending its
decline during the past seven trading days to 3.1 percent. The
yen was gained 0.1 percent to at 77.75 per dollar.  Euro Target  Europe’s common currency may weaken toward $1.2740, should
it break below a key support level at the 200-day moving
average, currently at $1.2827, said  Jeremy Stretch , head of
foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in  London . Support refers to an area where buy orders may be
clustered.  Sweden’s krona fell against most of its 16 major
counterparts after the National Institute of  Economic Research 
said its consumer confidence index dropped to 2 this month from
5.4 in August. Economists predicted a reading of 5, according to
a Bloomberg survey.  The krona slid 0.3 percent to 6.5911 per dollar. The
Swedish currency has gained 5 percent versus the greenback this
quarter, the most out of any its major peers.  Brazil’s real dropped for a fourth day after a newspaper
reported that the government may take steps to prevent the
currency’s appreciation. It declined 0.3 percent to 2.0307 per
U.S. dollar after falling to 2.0361, its lowest level since
Sept. 6.  Aussie Drop  Australia’s dollar declined versus most of its peers amid
concern political clashes are hampering attempts to resolve
Europe’s debt crisis, sapping demand for riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie fell 0.2 percent to $1.0371 after
earlier decreasing to the lowest level since Sept. 11.  The  New Zealand dollar  has led all major currencies this
month against the greenback, appreciating 2.6 percent. The
Brazilian real was the only one of 16 counterparts to decline
versus the dollar, falling 0.2 percent.  The real is also on pace for the biggest quarterly decline
out of its peers, having slipped 1.3 percent. The Brazilian
currency has lost 8.3 percent versus the dollar in 2012, more
than four times the decline of South Africa’s rand, the second-
biggest loser.  The Mexican peso leads all 16 of the dollar’s biggest peers
with a gain of 8.3 percent this year.  Spanish Bonds  Spanish  government bonds  slumped, with the yield on the 10-
year bond exceeding 6 percent for the first time since Sept. 18.  Spain pledged to meet its budget goals even as data
released yesterday showed  government spending  through August
rose from a year ago and tax receipts fell. Catalan President
Artur Mas called early elections for Nov. 25, as Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  struggles to gain acceptance for austerity
measures.  “The markets are reacting to the negative news flow we’ve
seen out of Spain, which destabilizes investor sentiment and
pressures the euro,” CIBC’s Stretch said. “The optimism we saw
priced in to markets after action from central banks is
waning.”  The euro has advanced 2.3 percent this month and 1.6
percent for the quarter against the dollar. The shared currency
has also gained 1.5 percent versus the yen this month amid
optimism policy makers are working toward a solution for the
debt crisis and after the  Federal Reserve  said on Sept. 13 it
will buy $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities each month
until the labor market improves.  Europe’s Banks  Bank recapitalization “should take place based on an
approach that adheres to the basic order of first using private
capital, then national public capital and only as a last resort
the” European Stability Mechanism, Finance Ministers Wolfgang Schaeuble, Jan Kees de Jager and Jutta Urpilainen said yesterday
in a statement distributed by the Finnish  Finance Ministry .  The decision may rule out the bailout fund from being used
to deal with the 100 billion euros ($126.6 billion) in aid Spain
sought for its banks in June.  Options traders are boosting bullish wagers at the fastest
pace in three years on an exchange-traded fund that tracks the
 U.S. dollar , betting the currency will continue its rebound from
a four-month low.  Investors are using options to bet that the currency will
strengthen amid optimism for U.S. economic growth, according to
Donald Selkin of National Securities Corp.  “The call open interest exploded after the QE3
announcement,” Selkin, the New York-based chief market
strategist at National Securities, said yesterday by phone,
referring to the dollar fund. His firm manages about $3 billion
of assets. “It’s an options bet on the dollar rebounding after
its low earlier this month. People think that Europe is doing
worse than we are, and that will push the dollar back up.”  The euro has weakened 3.2 percent this year, the worst
performance after the yen among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar has weakened 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  