-- European Stocks Gain on U.S. Home-Price, Confidence Data
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-09-25T16:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-rbs-may-move.html
European stocks  advanced as U.S.
home prices and  consumer confidence  increased more than
forecast, adding to signs the world’s largest economy is
strengthening.  Lonza (LONN)  Group AG rose 3 percent amid reports of takeover
speculation.  Weir Group (WEIR)  Plc climbed 4 percent as analysts said
General Electric Co. may be interested in buying the mining-
equipment maker.  Continental AG (CON)  sank 4 percent as Schaeffler AG
sold a 10.4 percent stake in the tire producer.  Infineon
Technologies AG (IFX)  slid 6.1 percent after Europe’s second-biggest
semiconductor maker forecast a decline in revenue.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 0.4 percent to 275.78 at
the close of trading. The gauge has  rallied 18 percent from this
year’s low  on June 4 as European Central Bank policy makers
agreed to implement an unlimited bond-buying program and the
 Federal Reserve  unveiled a third round of asset purchases.  “The numbers are better than expected,” said Ion-Marc Valahu, co-founder and fund manager at Clairinvest in Geneva.
“This should help counter the recent negative news and profit
warnings from the likes of Caterpillar and Infineon.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values in 20 U.S.
cities increased 1.2 percent in July from a year earlier, the
biggest advance since August 2010. The median forecast of 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1.05 percent gain.  U.S. Confidence  Confidence among U.S. consumers  rallied to a seven-month
high in September. The Conference Board’s index increased to
70.3 this month from 61.3 in August, exceeding the most
optimistic projections of all economists in a Bloomberg survey.  National benchmark indexes rose in 12 of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX added 0.2 percent and France’s
CAC 40 increased 0.5 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index gained
0.4 percent.  Greece’s ASE slipped 0.3 percent. The nation faces a
financing gap that won’t be solved by budget measures being
discussed because a weak economy and delayed privatizations have
worsened its fiscal situation, International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said at the Peterson
Institute for International Economics in Washington yesterday.  Lonza, which produces chemicals and biotechnology products,
jumped 3 percent to 51.10 Swiss francs. The Guardian and the
 Daily Mail  reported that BASF SE and Saudi Basic Industries
Corp. may be interested in buying the Swiss company, citing
speculation among traders.  Weir Rises  Weir Group climbed 4 percent to 1,811 pence, rising for the
first time in four days. Analysts at Oriel Securities Ltd. and
Investec Ltd. said GE will probably be drawn to Weir as the U.S.
company looks to build its mining-equipment division through
acquisitions.  Suedzucker AG (SZU)  gained 3.4 percent to 28.55 euros after the
world’s largest sugar producer boosted its earnings forecast for
the year.  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  advanced 4.2 percent to 95 kronor, the highest
since April 3. The second-biggest truckmaker will restructure
operations in Japan and the U.S. as it tries to boost margins
amid softening global markets.  Daily Mail & General Trust Plc (DMGO)  climbed 1.5 percent to
497.25 pence as the publisher of the U.K.’s Daily Mail and Mail
on Sunday newspapers said full-year results will be in line with
 analysts’ forecasts . Today’s statement was “reassuring” and
“very encouraging,” according to Numis Corp.  Continental fell 4 percent to 78.22 euros, the biggest drop
in three months. Schaeffler, a German industrial bearings maker,
sold a 10.4 percent stake in Continental for 1.6 billion euros
($2 billion) to reduce debt after a failed takeover.  Daimler Declines  A gauge of auto-industry shares dropped 1.3 percent for the
biggest decline among the 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600 as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its profit estimates for  Daimler
AG (DAI) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)   Daimler fell 1.6 percent to 39.46 euros, VW lost 1.7
percent to 152.25 euros and BMW slid 1.4 percent to 58.81 euros.  Infineon tumbled 6.1 percent to 5.11 euros, the biggest
retreat in nearly three months. The company predicted sales in
the three months through December will decline as much as 10
percent from the previous quarter as clients cut spending amid
the economic slowdown.  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , the phone company partly controlled by
 Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, plunged 7.2 percent to 5.70
euros, the lowest price since April 2001. The Vienna-based
company cut its  dividend  forecast for this year to 0.05 euros a
share from 0.38 euros.  Standard Chartered  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  declined 1.6 percent to 1,457.5
pence. The Financial Times said Temasek Holdings Pte talked to
potential buyers for its stake in the lender, citing people it
didn’t identify.  The Singapore investment company is the bank’s  biggest
shareholder , with an 18 percent holding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Gabriel Kwan, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman for  Standard Chartered , and  Jeffrey Fang , a
spokesman for Temasek, declined to comment.  Georg Fischer AG slumped 6.2 percent to 347.75 francs, its
largest drop in four months. Vontobel Holding AG trimmed its
recommendation on  Europe ’s biggest maker of iron castings for
cars to reduce from buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  