-- Ex-Chrysler Executives Win Ruling Reviving Age-Bias Claims
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-09-25T23:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/ex-chrysler-executives-win-court-ruling-reviving-age-bias-claims.html
A group of former Chrysler LLC
executives who lost all or most of their supplemental retirement
benefits when the automaker went bankrupt in 2009 can proceed
with their age-bias claims, a federal appeals court said.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Cincinnati today said a lower-
court judge had incorrectly thrown out the claims. Unlike the
former executives’ other state-law claims, their age-
discrimination claims against Chrysler’s former parent company,
 Daimler AG (DAI) , weren’t preempted by the federal Employee Retirement
Income Security Act, the appellate panel said.  “Chrysler’s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan is a
top-hat plan,” U.S. Circuit Judge Jeffrey Sutton said in the
ruling. “As such, many of ERISA’s otherwise-applicable
protections, and rights of action, do not apply, which explains
why plaintiffs have largely framed their claims under state
law.”  The plaintiffs’ age-discrimination act isn’t preempted by
the federal statute in so far as it preserves some state laws
that “provide a means of enforcing a federal law’s commands,”
according to the ruling.  The former executives allege that the benefits of some
active Chrysler executives and selected retirees were protected
when the company used assets from the  retirement plan ’s trust to
buy annuities for them when Chrysler’s financial situation
became precarious by 2005 and 2006.  2009 Bankruptcy  When Chrysler filed for bankruptcy in 2009, the remaining
assets in the trust became part of the bankruptcy estate. The
active and retired executives whose benefits were securitized
were on average younger than those whose benefits weren’t
secured, according to the appellate court’s opinion.  “Daimler is still reviewing the decision, but we are
pleased that the Court of Appeals has affirmed most of the
district court’s rulings on our motion to dismiss,” Andrea
Berg, a U.S. spokeswoman for the German automaker said in an e-
mailed statement. “In any event, Daimler intends to continue to
defend this case vigorously.”  Chrysler, based in  Auburn Hills ,  Michigan , is majority-
owned by  Fiat SpA. (F)   The case is Loffredo v. Daimler AG, 11-1824, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  