-- Ex-RBC, BofA Traders Leave Tandem to Start Fund at TIG
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-09-25T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/ex-rbc-bofa-traders-leave-tandem-to-start-fund-at-tig.html
Former Royal Bank of  Canada  and
Bank of America Corp. proprietary traders plan to start a
mortgage-focused structured-credit hedge fund at New York-based
TIG Advisors LLC after leaving Tandem Global Management LP.  Stuart Lippman, 40, formerly a managing director and senior
portfolio manager in the non-agency mortgage credit business of
Royal Bank of Canada’s proprietary-trading group, and David Liu,
43, who managed portfolios in the global proprietary-trading
group at Bank of America, left Tandem in July, where they had
sought to start a mortgage fund, Lippman said in a telephone
interview. He declined to comment on the reason for the
departure.  Lippman and Liu plan to open a similar fund at TIG
Advisors, where they started earlier this month. The TIG
Securitized Asset Fund will trade residential mortgage-backed
securities, which will comprise more than half of the portfolio,
commercial-mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed
securities, according to a presentation that was obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  The fund will start on Oct. 1 and has more than $100
million in commitments, Lippman said. In its mortgage
securities, the fund will focus on seasoned subprime, lower-
rated prime, Alt-A and option ARMs.  Lippman and Liu will work with four other investment
professionals on the new fund, Lippman said. TIG Advisors, which
has about $1 billion in assets, will provide marketing,  investor
relations , risk management, legal, compliance, technology,
operations and accounting services, the firm’s president, Spiros
Maliagros, said in a telephone interview. TIG Advisors has seven
other hedge-fund strategies and was founded in 1980.  Ruggero de Rossi, partner and chief investment officer at
Tandem, didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  