-- Ferdinand Wants England Return, Guardian Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-09-25T10:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/ferdinand-wants-england-return-guardian-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Ferdinand’s Desire?  Manchester United defender Rio Ferdinand is interested in
returning to the England team now that  John Terry , who’s accused
of racially abusing Ferdinand’s brother Anton, has decided to
quit the national squad, the Guardian said.  Terry said he wouldn’t play for England again after the
Football Association decided to pursue charges against him
following his acquittal in court. The F.A. is hearing the
charges against the Chelsea defender this week.  Sagna’s Departure?  Inter Milan is considering bidding for Arsenal right-back
Bacary Sagna, who criticized his London club’s transfer policy
last month after the departures of Robin van Persie and Alex Song,  the Daily Mirror said.   Arsenal expects the 29-year-old Frenchman to sign a new
contract, but Inter is ready to move for the player if talks
stall, the newspaper said.  Rooney’s Return  United striker  Wayne Rooney  may play against Newcastle in
the Capital One Cup tonight after missing several matches
because of a gash suffered last month against Fulham,  the Daily
Mail said.   The 26-year-old has been training for a week, and should
play against Tottenham this weekend if he doesn’t face
Newcastle, the newspaper said.  Suarez Punished?  Liverpool captain  Steven Gerrard  said that teammate  Luis Suarez  isn’t getting deserved penalties because of his
reputation,  the Sun reported.   Suarez wasn’t awarded a penalty in a close challenge by
Manchester United’s  Jonny Evans  last weekend, and was booked for
diving against Sunderland earlier this month.  Gerrard and teammate  Glen Johnson  questioned whether
referees were making decisions based on considerations other
than the foul, the newspaper said.  Missed Chance  New Chelsea midfielder Eden Hazard said he might have
signed for Tottenham had the north London club made the
 Champions League , the Telegraph said.  The 21-year-old signed with Chelsea after the Blues
qualified for this year’s tournament by winning last year’s
final, kicking Spurs into the Europa League, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  