-- Fisker’s Karma ‘Full of Flaws,’ Consumer Reports Says
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-09-25T16:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/fisker-s-karma-full-of-flaws-consumer-reports-says.html
Fisker Automotive Inc.’s Karma, the
only luxury plug-in hybrid car sold in the U.S., failed to win a
recommendation from  Consumer Reports , which said tests showed
flaws in its interior design and reliability.  In a review of the $107,850 car that it bought for testing,
the magazine said the Karma was “full of flaws,” including a
tight cabin, poor visibility and dashboard controls that were
difficult to use.  “Although we found its ride, handling and braking
performance sound and it has first-class interior materials, the
Karma’s problems outweighed the good,” Jake Fisher, the
magazine’s director of vehicle testing, said in a statement
today. Along with the Karma’s cramped cabin and complicated
controls, “the gasoline engine has an unrefined roar,” and the
Karma’s weight “affects agility and performance,” he said.  The review by Consumer Reports, which is published by
Yonkers, New York-based Consumers Union, follows its initial
March evaluation of the car, which shut down due to a fault with
the battery pack. It adds to the challenges for Anaheim,
California-based Fisker which is working to boost sales of the
car and raise funds after it lost access to an Energy Department
loan last year.  “The car has been a basket case,” Fisher said by
telephone. “When you’re paying this much, you’re expecting a
car that’s going to run all the time.”  Fisker’s battery supplier,  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE) , is replacing
lithium-ion cells in the cars to address the battery’s
manufacturing flaws and the pack was replaced in the magazine’s
test car, Fisher said.  Cooling Fan  The Karma has been subject to three recalls in the past 12
months. In addition to the battery-pack recall, the company said
in August it would recall all its sedans to fix a flawed cooling
fan linked to a fire in one of the vehicles.  Fisker, which last month hired  Tony Posawatz , the former
head of  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s rechargeable Chevrolet Volt
program, as its new chief executive officer, has delivered more
than 1,900 Karmas since last year and raised more than a $1
billion in private funds.  “As the Karma is a concept car come to life, packaging and
visibility will of course not be that of a minivan,” the
automaker said in a statement. The company said it’s also
working to improve sound quality and software responsiveness.  Unlike battery-only vehicles such  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s Model
S and Roadster and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Leaf, plug-in hybrids such
as the Karma and Volt also have gasoline engines to charge the
battery and extend driving range.  The Karma is the most expensive car Consumer Reports has
ever purchased for testing, Fisher said.  Fisker said in July that actor  Leonardo DiCaprio , a Karma
owner, has invested in the company and would help promote the
vehicle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  