-- The NFL’s Game Plan: Crush the Union
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-09-25T20:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/for-the-nfl-player-safety-comes-second.html
Let me ask this in the simplest
possible way: What in the name of God is the  National Football
League  doing?  Here we are, hurtling toward Week 4, and the NFL is
continuing to lock out its referees. The league appears
perfectly content to leave the job to a cast of bumbling
replacements, who seem to be getting worse with experience.  On Sunday, we saw games drag on endlessly, as hapless
referees huddled together to parse plays like groups of Foot
Locker salesmen studying the takeout menu for Panda Express.
We saw random acts of  low comedy . We saw a game that should be
getting more tightly policed, especially to prevent the
possibility of head injuries, become infinitely  less so .  Then, of course, came last night’s Lucy Ricardo finale: The
replacements botched the final call of the Seattle Seahawks-
Green Bay Packers game, and after taking 10 minutes to review
and reconsider, upheld their decision. Fans groaned, aspiring
comedians tweeted  one-liners  (“Replacement refs overrule WWII.
Germans won, covered.”), and gamblers broke the nearest
available object (or, if they had the Seahawks and 3 1/2 points,
French-kissed their bookies).  So egregious was last night’s gaffe that a former employer
of some of the replacement refs, an outfit known as the Lingerie
Football League, felt compelled to  distance itself  from them,
lest their league, in which women play tackle football in bras
and panties, lose its “credibility.”  Mere Millions  What’s next? Outsourcing the officiating to Bangalore?
Repurposing the refs from “Madden NFL 13”?  At least during last year’s NFL player lockout, there were
billions of dollars at stake. That’s not the case with the
referees. The two sides are mere millions apart in terms of
compensation; the real sticking point is pensions. The NFL wants
to shift the referees from a defined benefit plan to a 401(k)
and cut its contribution. The union has proposed keeping the
defined benefit plan for all existing referees and shifting to
401(k)s for new hires.  The numbers at stake -- referees earn about $150,000 a year
-- qualify as rounding errors on the NFL’s balance sheet, which
shows annual revenue of about $9 billion. That’s before a huge
new TV contract goes into effect in 2014.  NFL referees are not, admittedly, the most sympathetic
bunch. They earn more than most people make in a year for what
is essentially a part-time job, and (though it’s easy to forget
this now) they blow their share of calls. It’s also easy to make
the case that employees should be held accountable for their
work (another sticking point: The NFL wants to introduce a
performance-based assignment system). And it is true that very
few employers are offering defined-benefit pensions these days.  But the NFL is not a dying Midwestern state with soaring
unemployment, a shrinking tax base and an underfunded employee-
pension plan. It is the largest, most profitable sports
conglomerate in the U.S., one in which a good percentage of the
owners are worth at least $1 billion.  So the question presents itself again, and this time I will
employ an NFL-friendly metaphor: What exactly is the league’s
game plan? In the short term, the NFL is degrading its product.
In the long term, it is eroding its goodwill -- a resource that
is likely to become ever more precious as we learn more about
the chronic dangers of playing the game.  It follows that the NFL should be trying hard to at least
look like a benevolent force -- magnanimous, generous, concerned
about its players’ safety. Instead, the safety concern the
league has expressed is for replacement referees dealing with
rage-fueled coaches.  Uncommon Outrage  Given the outraged reaction to last night’s game -- even
among sworn enemies of the Packers, such as  members of  the
 Minnesota Vikings  -- it’s not too far-fetched to imagine a
player boycott. The players could argue that the NFL has
violated their  collective-bargaining agreement  by creating an
unsafe workplace.  Hall of Fame quarterback (and accounting major)  Steve Young 
 argued  last week in his now-famous post-“Monday Night Football”
disquisition that the NFL’s game plan is actually simple.
“Everything about the NFL now is inelastic for demand,” he said.
Translation: As long as fans still show up at the stadiums and
tune in to the games, the league has no incentive to make a
deal.  Assume Young is right: The NFL’s powers-that-be “just don’t
care,” and Americans are truly addicted to pro football. His
argument still only takes you so far.  After all, if the league’s owners really didn’t care, why
not just settle? Why not slap the mosquito that has
inconveniently landed on their collective arm and get back to
stuffing their bags full of money? If they don’t want to absorb
the almost imperceptible effect on their bottom line, they can
simply pass on the added costs to their loyal fans.  It might be that the NFL’s owners care too much -- not
about money but about ideology. For many of them, this is a
proxy battle, and they are apparently so dead-set on labor
capitulating to management that they’re willing to treat their
own business -- and the welfare of their employees -- as
collateral damage.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
A long-time contributor to the  New York  Times Magazine, he is
the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx
Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 