-- Forced Blood Test in Drunk Driving Case Gets Court Review
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-09-25T13:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/forced-blood-test-in-drunk-driving-case-gets-court-review.html
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to
decide whether police must get a search warrant before forcing a
drunken driving suspect to have blood drawn, accepting a case
that will shape  privacy rights  on the road.  The justices today said they will hear Missouri’s
contention that the Constitution doesn’t require police to take
the time to get judicial approval given how quickly alcohol
dissipates in the bloodstream. The Missouri Supreme Court
disagreed, saying officers typically must seek a warrant.  That decision “actually requires police officers to stand
by and allow the best, most probative evidence to be destroyed
during a drunk-driving investigation,” Missouri argued in its
appeal. Lower courts are divided on the question.  The case may have widespread day-to-day implications. More
than 1.4 million people are arrested each year in the U.S. for
driving under the influence, according to FBI statistics. At
least 27 states wouldn’t be directly affected because they have
laws barring nonconsensual blood draws in the absence of a
warrant, according to court papers filed by Tyler G. McNeely,
the defendant in the case.  McNeely was pulled over for speeding in 2010 by a state
highway patrolman in southeast Missouri and refused to take a
breath test after failing field sobriety tests. The officer then
took McNeely to a nearby medical laboratory, where a technician
drew blood over the suspect’s objection.  McNeely’s lawyers say the  Supreme Court  shouldn’t
categorically exempt drunken driving cases from the normal rule
that police must get a warrant for intrusive bodily searches.  Losing Evidence  “While every drunk-driving investigation will involve the
eventual dissipation of a suspect’s blood alcohol content, not
every case will involve a risk of losing evidence of
intoxication before search,” argued McNeely, who is represented
by the  American Civil Liberties Union .  The Supreme Court last ruled on the issue in 1966. In that
decision, the court said the warrant requirement didn’t apply in
the case of a man whose blood was drawn in a hospital about two
hours after he was involved in an automobile accident. The court
said that case involved “special facts.”  The high court in other rulings has said police don’t need
a warrant in situations of “exigent circumstances,” as when
evidence is about to be destroyed.  The justices will consider today’s case and rule in the
nine-month term that starts in October. The case is  Missouri  v.
McNeely, 11-1425.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  