-- Ford to Cut ‘a Few Hundred’ as European Sales Fall
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-09-25T20:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/ford-to-cut-a-frew-hundred-jobs-in-europe-as-sales-fall.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  plans to cut “a few
hundred” jobs in  Europe  because of falling sales in the region.  “Our goal is to adapt the production to the shrinking
demand,” Ute Mundolf, a spokeswoman at Ford in Germany, said in
a telephone interview.  Ford, the second-biggest U.S. automaker, expects to lose
more than $1 billion in Europe this year while wanting to invest
to increase its market share. Ford earlier this month announced
new models that will be introduced over the next five years,
including more sport-utility vehicles.  Ford’s car sales in the European Union plunged 12 percent
in the period this year through August, according to data from
ACEA, the European industry group. European car sales dropped
8.5 percent in August, the steepest decline since February, the
Brussels-based ACEA said on Sept. 18.  Ford is conducting three job-cutting programs, in  Germany ,
the U.K. and the rest of Europe, according to separate company
e-mailed statement. The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker is
offering voluntary buyouts to salaried employees and reducing
expenditures on “agency workers and purchased services,” the
company said in the statement. The precise number of jobs cut
won’t be known for “a few months,” according to the statement.  ACEA forecasts that European deliveries will hit a 17-year
low in 2012. German car registrations fell 4.7 percent in
August, pushing the eight-month sales figure to a 0.6 percent
decline.  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  agreed last week to sell 75 percent of
the Gefco trucking unit to OAO Russian Railways  to reduce debt.
 Fiat SpA (F) ’s volume brands are eliminating 20 percent of
management jobs in Europe, according to a person familiar with
the matter.  Ford declined 2.2 percent to $10.09 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  