-- Forrest Group Sells CMSK Mining Stakes to Congo’s Gecamines
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-09-25T17:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/forrest-group-sells-cmsk-mining-stakes-to-congo-s-gecamines.html
Gecamines,  Democratic Republic  of
Congo’s state-owned copper miner, bought Entreprise Generale
Malta Forrest’s 60 percent stake in the CMSK copper and cobalt
project, the two companies said in a joint e-mailed statement.  The sale gives Gecamines full control of CMSK and will
resolve an arbitration dispute over the project at the
 International Chamber of Commerce , Henry de Harenne, spokesman
for EGMF’s parent company, George Forrest International SA,
said. He declined to give the sale price.  “It’s a good price for us and for Gecamines,” de Harenne
said by phone from Brussels. EGMF will use the money to invest
in its other businesses in Congo, including energy, food, and
construction, he said.  Lubumbashi-based EGMF filed charges in August 2011 against
Gecamines at the Paris-based ICC’s International Arbitration
Court, claiming Gecamines was trying to “illegally
appropriate” its portion of CMSK. Gecamines claimed it had the
right to purchase the stake after mining magnate George Forrest
offered to buy it from EGMF, a company owned by his family. EGMF
said it never intended to sell the shares.  Ahmed Kalej Nkand, the chief executive officer of
Gecamines, said he was pleased with the agreement, according to
the statement.  “Our objective is to improve Gecamines and to convert it
into a leading independent mining operator,” he said. “CMSK
contributes to this.”  Gecamines, which sits on the world’s biggest deposits of
cobalt, is trying to increase production after decades of
dictatorship and war in Congo left its infrastructure destroyed
and cash reserves depleted. The company expects to produce about
35,000 metric tons of copper this year, Chairman Albert Yuma
said in July, compared with 476,000 tons in 1986. Gecamines
wants to increase output to 100,000 tons by 2015, Yuma said.  Second Buy-Out  CMSK produced more than 40,000 tons of copper-cobalt
concentrate last year, according to Katanga provincial mines
ministry statistics. The project can produce 4,000 tons of
cobalt and 12,000 tons of copper annually, according to the
George Forrest International  website .  The acquisition marks the second time this month that
Gecamines has bought out a partner to resolve a dispute over an
attempted share sale to a third party. On Sept. 10, Gecamines
announced it would purchase partner Copperbelt Minerals Ltd.’s
stakes in two copper concessions. The deal settled a dispute
between the companies over a 2010 bid by  China ’s Zijin Mining
Group Co. and the China-Africa Development Fund for a unit of
Copperbelt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  