-- France Must Open Dams to Competition, European Commission Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-25T17:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/france-must-open-dams-to-competition-european-commission-says.html
France  needs to allow competition
in its hydropower industry following “obvious” delays, said
the European Commission’s chief representative in the country.  “The Commission is being very vigilant,” Anne Houtman,
head of the organization’s representation in France, said at a
gas and power conference in Paris. France “must enable access
to hydroelectricity. There is an obvious delay,” she said.  President  Francois Hollande ’s government hasn’t said if
there will be tenders for French dam concessions held by state-
run  Electricite de France SA  and former gas monopoly  GDF Suez
SA. (GSZ)  The Energy Ministry in the prior government was drawing up
plans to invite bids, saying in April 2010 that permits to run
10 dams with a combined output of 5,300 megawatts, or about a
fifth of the total, would be up for renewal through 2015.  EDF has 4,400 megawatts of that and GDF Suez 623 megawatts.
The dams are in the Alps, Massif Central and Pyrenees regions.  Further development could expand to as much as 7 terawatt
hours, according to Afieg, representing European utilities such
as  Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH) ,  Enel SpA (ENEL) , EON AG and Vattenfall AB that are
seeking to operate French concessions. Fleur Thesmar, head of
the group, said it wants tenders begun “as soon as possible.”  Vattenfall, the Nordic region’s largest utility, said in
February it would bid for concessions with  ArcelorMittal (MT) , Rhodia
SA and Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Francais, the French
national railroad. EON of  Germany  and Hydrocop Concessions, a
power distributor in eight French regions, also teamed up.  The office of Environment and Energy Minister Delphine Batho declined to comment on the matter when contacted today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  