-- French Industrial Sentiment Holds Near Two-Year Low: Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-09-25T09:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/french-industrial-sentiment-holds-near-two-year-low-economy.html
French  industrial confidence  held
near its lowest in more than two years in September as the
economy stagnates and tax increases loom.  A measure of  sentiment  among factory executives was
unchanged at 90, national statistics office Insee said in Paris
today. Economists expected a reading of 89, according to the
median of 18 forecasts in a  Bloomberg News   survey  of economists.
A gauge that includes retailers, builders and service industries
fell to a three-year low of 86 from 87 in August.  Business confidence is faltering in Europe’s second-largest
economy after gross domestic product  failed to grow  for three
straight quarters and as President  Francois Hollande  prepares 20
billion euros ($26 billion) in tax increases for the coming
year. Business sentiment in Germany unexpectedly fell to a two-
and-a-half-year low this month, a report showed yesterday, as
the sovereign debt crisis drives the euro area toward recession.  “We cannot expect a quick recovery any time soon,” said
Joost Beaumont, an economist at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam who
expects the French economy to contract in the third quarter and
flat-line through the first half of next year. “The budget is
likely to be unfriendly to business. Consolidation is necessary
but you would have expected the government to lean more on
spending.”  Hollande’s government presents its 2013 budget on Sept. 28.  Production Outlook  Insee’s reading for past production dropped to minus 18
from minus 9 in August, while the  production outlook  fell to
minus 52 from minus 44. The general outlook “is deteriorating
strongly again, approaching the very low levels reached in
2009,” Insee said.  The euro fell 0.2 percent to $1.2904 at 11 a.m. in Paris.
The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  of shares added 0.1 percent after
falling 0.4 percent yesterday.  In neighboring Germany, Europe’s largest economy, market-
research company  GfK SE (GFK)  predicted its gauge of  consumer
confidence  will hold steady in October as a less pessimistic
economic outlook offsets falling income expectations. The index
will remain at 5.9 for a second straight month, GfK said.  “The fear of German consumers that the economy will slip
into recession did not increase further,” GfK said in a
statement. “But uncertainty of consumers with regard to their
future financial prospects has risen in recent weeks.”  Italian Confidence  Italian consumer confidence remained near its lowest level
in more than 15 years in September as the country’s deepening
recession damped optimism. The confidence index inched to 86.2
from a revised 86.1 in August, the national statistics office,
Istat, said in Rome today.  The 17-nation euro economy is on the brink of recession
after contracting 0.2 percent in the second quarter. Bond and
equity markets have rallied since the  European Central Bank 
announced a plan to buy  government bonds , joining the  Federal
Reserve , the  Bank of England  and the  Bank of Japan  in expanding
monetary stimulus.  In  Asia , South Korean consumer confidence held at a seven-
month low in September.  In the U.S., the Conference Board publishes  consumer
confidence  reading for September later today. Sentiment will
probably climb to 63.2 from 60.6, according to the median of 72
estimates gathered by Bloomberg News.  Still, U.S. consumer spending probably stagnated in August
after adjusting for inflation, showing the economic expansion is
struggling to gain momentum, economists said before a report
later this week.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose 0.5 percent last month after a 0.4 percent
increase in July, according to the median estimate of 63
economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Sept. 28 figures from
the Commerce Department. The report may show the gain reflected
a 0.5 percent jump in prices, the biggest since June 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  