-- French Lottery Bonds Show Risky History of Property Bets
-- B y   A l e x i a   Y a t e s
-- 2012-09-25T15:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/french-lottery-bonds-show-risky-history-of-property-bets.html
The man who knocks on the door is
polished and friendly. His suit is fashionable, his briefcase
looks important. And the things he pulls out of it are
impressive: large sheets of bonds and coupons to be redeemed,
signed by the heads of important banking houses and credit
institutions.  The contracts are in clear terms and, he assures you,
guaranteed by the government. They are secured by land, the
safest asset in the world. Best of all, several times a year,
the bond gives you a chance of winning a huge cash prize. How
can you afford not to buy?  Conversations like this were commonplace in late 19th-
century  France , when novel financial instruments known as
lottery bonds were in high demand among the middle classes. Some
of the most popular were those deemed safest for their
underlying security: bundled mortgages available through the
Credit Foncier, a national mortgage bank founded in 1852.  Although the bonds may have lacked a AAA rating (credit-
rating companies weren’t in operation yet), the government
promoted them as gilt-edged securities, or “placements de pere
de famille.” These instruments combined a reasonable investment
(bonds) with hopes of irrational gain (lotteries). The
combination was irresistible, and when stock-and-bond salesmen -
- known in France as “demarcheurs” -- zoomed into towns and
villages, they brokered a dream of ownership that often blinded
their clients to the risks and onerous terms they were
accepting.  In combining noxious sales pitches with novel financial
instruments, innovative contracts, and ultimately exploitative
payment schedules, the demarcheurs were a precursor to the
unsavory mortgage practices that helped lead to the 2008
financial crisis.  Cash Prizes  The Credit Foncier, a semipublic joint-stock bank, was the
envy of foreign mortgage reformers, who saw both its ability to
pool mortgages and its loan terms -- long-term credit with
annual amortization -- as the cutting edge in agricultural
lending. (Most mortgages in the U.S. at the time were shorter-
term “balloon loans” that imposed burdensome payment conditions
on borrowers.) Authorized by, and accountable to, the state, the
Credit Foncier enjoyed the singular privilege of issuing bonds
to fund its loans. By the late 1870s, the bank had sold 1.5
billion francs’ worth of debt to hundreds of thousands of
bondholders. Those sales doubled by 1890.  The success of these bonds was due in no small part to
another privilege the company enjoyed: an exemption from an 1836
law prohibiting lotteries in France. This allowed the bank to
issue bonds that came with rights to attend annual drawings for
the lifetime of the loan. These drawings randomly selected bonds
that the company would reimburse, as well as some that would be
rewarded with cash prizes.  Drawings were highly orchestrated public events, attended
by hundreds of hopeful investors. Special drums -- fantastic
creations of glass and iron more than 6 feet tall -- were filled
with thousands of brass cases, themselves filled with papers
featuring hundreds of bond numbers. By the 1920s, the number of
eligible bonds meant that the public drawing took as long as an
hour, while processing the results took three days and required
a staff of 70. The thousands of winning bonds were then listed
in the company’s official publications and in national journals.
Provided the installment payments on a bond were up to date --
the Credit Foncier’s archives are filled with letters from
“winners” who were not so diligent -- the lucky bondholders
stood to win as much as 200,000 francs.  Multiple Schemes  Investors paid handsomely for the right to participate in
these drawings. Bonds issued with a lottery option cost more
than those issued without, and paid a lower annual  interest
rate . They were thus a lucrative way for the Credit Foncier to
obtain loans, despite the outlandish sums the company spent on
publicity. Just one of the many reasons these investments were
criticized by contemporaries was that they were less productive
vehicles for the modest class of buyers to whom they appealed.  Critics also noted the multiple schemes to which the
securities gave birth. Bonds were sold on option, giving their
temporary owners the right to the bond before a drawing but
allowing them to decline to purchase it afterward. They were
broken into portions as small as 50ths, with the intention of
sharing any winnings between all the “owners,” a practice that
seemed more like gambling than investing. They were sold on
credit for installment payments over several years that amounted
to more than the bond was worth. When the government sought to
regulate such sales in the 1890s, legislators estimated that as
much as 12 million francs in annual payments flowed through the
offices of fly-by-night brokerage houses.  The purest example of the victory of chance over investment
occurred in the new economic climate of the 1930s, when a
devalued franc helped promote the sale of these titles globally
as simple lottery tickets.  But the anxiety the bonds produced was outweighed by their
real utility to financial institutions and public bodies, as
well as their imagined utility to the investing public. The
Credit Foncier was convinced that such instruments were the only
way to create a consumer marketplace for its debt, and used them
until the 1970s. In the 1880s, the economist Paul Leroy-
Beaulieu, an ardent supporter of the bonds, reminded critics
that they were to the urban citizen what land was to the
peasant: an investment that appealed to the heart and the head.
Today, the U.K.’s Premium Bonds are perhaps the best-known
example of a lottery-based investment instrument.  The Credit Foncier’s lottery bonds combined land and
financial markets in a manner calculated to enhance their
persuasiveness to novice investors. Their popularity reminds us
of something the political and cultural weight placed on
property ownership has often hidden: that investment in land is
always a gamble.  (Alexia Yates is a Prize Fellow in economics, history, and
politics at the Center for History and Economics at  Harvard
University . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Alexia Yates at
 ayates@fas.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at  tlavin1@bloomberg.net  or. 