-- FX Concepts Agrees to Buy Track.com to Add Research Platform
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   A n n m a r i e   H o r d e r n
-- 2012-09-25T21:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/fx-concepts-agrees-to-buy-track-com-to-add-research-platform.html
FX Concepts LLC, a currency hedge
fund founded by  John Taylor  with about $3 billion under
management, agreed to buy closely held financial research
provider Track.com for an undisclosed amount.  Track.com, a subscription-based service, will operate as a
wholly owned subsidiary of New York-based FX Concepts to broaden
the hedge fund’s research platform. Bob Savage, chief executive
officer and co-founder of Track.com, will join FX Concepts as
chief strategist and bring over the firm’s three current
employees. Financial terms of the stock deal weren’t disclosed.  “It’s going to help us widen our research internally and
bring us into contact with more research professionals,” Taylor
said today in a telephone interview. “It brings more ideas
directly into contact with our research team. Plus my strategy
has always been entirely quantitative and technical, while Bob
is a fundamentalist.”  Taylor, 69, will maintain an active role in the firm’s
research operation, though he said he foresees Savage, 49,
eventually taking over full control. FX Concepts, founded in
1981 by Taylor, calls itself one of the oldest currency only
hedge funds.  Track.com will also help address new regulations for
research stemming from the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul,
which will require electronic platforms for delivery and
aggregation, according to a company statement.  Subscription Services  It was becoming increasingly difficult for subscription
research services to put out a quality product while also
remaining profitable, according to Savage, who is based in  New
York .  “Ultimately, research belongs under something, either a
broker-dealer or a  money manager , because on its own, a
subscription-based model is very strained,” Savage said in a
Sept. 21 telephone interview. “The broker-dealer research model
is not working out. I think you’re going to see more of a focus
on research content from the hedge fund space.”  Ticonderoga Securities LLC, the New York brokerage that
halted operations in January after an attempt to boost capital
fell through, is an example of a firm that failed to implement a
research platform, Savage said. The firm provided research and
services spanning investment banking, sales and trading.  Savage and FX Concept’s Taylor share similar bearish views
on the euro, the resilience of which has consistently surprised
Taylor. He predicted in January 2011 that the euro would fall to
parity with the dollar. In March, Taylor said that the euro
would get there eventually, and would trade between $1.15 and
$1.18 by May. The  lowest it got in May was $1.2337.  “John and I agree that the only way that sustainability of
the euro can last is if they get some growth,” Savage said.
“The best way to do that is a weaker euro, ultimately. They’re
going to need to use the euro as a competitive exports tool.”  FX Concepts is “somewhat positive” on the euro in the
short term ahead of the  U.S. presidential election , but sees it
depreciating in 2013, Taylor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Annmarie Hordern in New York at 
 ahordern1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  