-- GE Sees Sales Entry as Miners’ Cutbacks Hit Caterpillar
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-09-25T22:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/ge-sees-sales-entry-as-miners-cutbacks-hit-caterpillar.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  ’s new mining
unit plans to offer products and services that improve
efficiency even as industry-spending cuts crimp suppliers such
as  Caterpillar (CAT)  Inc.  “We think the cycle timing is actually good,” Geoff Knox,
GE Mining’s chief executive officer, said yesterday at the
MINExpo industry  exhibition  in Las Vegas. “We’re not here to
sell big pieces of gear, we’re here with smart solutions that
help them operate smarter in slightly tougher times.”  GE plans to accelerate growth at the unit through
acquisitions and by boosting sales of products it already makes
to miners. The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company is expanding
its presence after Caterpillar trimmed its 2015 forecast and
Australia’s  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest mining company, last
month delayed an estimated $68 billion of projects.  Global-mining  capital expenditures  are poised to decline 14
percent through 2014 from a peak of $136 billion this year,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a Sept. 21 report.  At MINExpo, GE unveiled a new electrical-drive system for
underground mining vehicles such as those manufactured by
Fairchild International Inc., which it  purchased  in May, as well
as software to help monitor and optimize mine operations.  The company also makes drive systems for massive above-
ground mining vehicles manufactured by companies including
 Komatsu Ltd. (6301)  It sells software that helps airlines and railroads
keep tabs on the performance of their equipment and anticipate
maintenance needs.  Revenue Outlook  Sales at the mining unit may grow to $5 billion “within a
few years,” Lorenzo Simonelli, CEO of GE Transportation, of
which the division is a part, said in an interview last week.
That compares with about $2 billion generated last year by GE’s
current offerings.  GE Mining will be based in Brisbane, Australia, home to
 Industrea Ltd. (IDL) , which GE agreed to buy in May for $466 million.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, cut its 2015 profit forecast to $12 to $18 a
share, compared with previous projections of $15 to $20 and
expects moderate and “anemic” growth through that year,
Chairman and CEO  Doug Oberhelman  said this week in a
presentation to analysts at MINExpo.  Australian iron-ore producer  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  on
Sept. 4 cut its full-year spending forecast by 26 percent to
$4.6 billion.  “There’s obviously going to be short-term volatility,”
Simonelli said at MINExpo. “When you look at the long-term
trends, however, this is obviously an industry that’s going to
be there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  