-- Geithner Says Europe Has Tools for Difficult Road Ahead
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-09-25T23:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/geithern-says-europe-has-tools-for-difficult-road-ahead.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Europe is in a better position than it was earlier
this year even as it remains the biggest drag on the global
economy.  “They’re in a much better position today than they were
three months ago, six months ago, nine months ago,” Geithner
said today at the  Clinton Global Initiative  conference in  New
York . “For the first time, they have in place a plausibly
powerful set of financial tools to support a strategy to let
these reforms work.”  Europe’s economic outlook is weakening as the region’s
policy makers strive to end the three-year debt crisis. Euro-
area surveys on Sept. 20 showed that services and manufacturing
output fell to a 39-month low in September, adding to evidence
the economy is heading for a recession. Figures yesterday
indicated that German business confidence unexpectedly fell to
the lowest in more than two and a half years in September.  “It’s going to be a long, difficult, tough road for them,
and the politics of it are very hard,” Geithner said. “There’s
not going to be a week or a specific date in the future where
you’re going to know with total confidence how they’re going to
navigate it. It’s going to be something that’s tested every
month, every week for the next several years.”  Big Uncertainty  Europe  is still “the big uncertainty and the biggest
source of drag on the global economy,” he said.  On the so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S., Geithner said
Republicans in Congress will have to confront “a set of basic
realities about economics and fiscal policy.”  The fiscal cliff refers to spending cuts and tax increases
scheduled to take effect next year if Congress fails to act by
the end of 2012.  European stocks advanced as U.S. home prices and  consumer
confidence  increased more than forecast. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index added 0.4 percent to 275.78 at the close of trading. The
gauge has rallied 18 percent from this year’s low on June 4 as
European Central Bank policy makers agreed to implement an
unlimited bond-buying program and the  Federal Reserve  unveiled a
third round of asset purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  