-- Germans Tout Bailout Safeguards With ESM Audit Board Seat
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-09-25T14:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/germans-tout-bailout-safeguards-with-esm-audit-board-seat.html
Germany ’s top auditor will have a
say on oversight and decision-making at  Europe ’s permanent
rescue fund, developments that the  Finance Ministry  in Berlin
said offer added protection to taxpayers when the backstop comes
online next month.  Draft bylaws for the fund, known as the European Stability
Mechanism, include a formula for which nations will serve on its
audit board, according to a copy prepared for German lawmakers
and obtained by  Bloomberg News . The oversight board will examine
the fund’s performance, risk management and compliance, and will
have full access to all ESM documents and reports, the draft
shows.  Germany’s Finance Ministry said in a letter accompanying
the draft that the proposed rules ensure Germany’s court of
auditors will take part. “In the negotiations, the government
laid the groundwork for the Federal Court of Auditors to be able
to have a seat on the Audit Committee from the moment the ESM is
set up,” the ministry said.  The audit move underscores government efforts to reassure
voters one year out from federal elections that  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s euro rescue efforts won’t squander public money.
It follows a decision by Germany’s top constitutional court this
month not to block the fund’s launch, a verdict that fueled
domestic criticism of Merkel’s crisis response.  Earning Profits  The 500 billion-euro ($647 billion) ESM has the potential
to earn profits on paid-in capital, setting it apart from its
predecessor, the European Financial Stability Facility, which
relied on government guarantees. The new fund’s powers --
ranging from bond-market interventions and credit lines to
direct loans to governments and the ability to recapitalize
banks -- echo the EFSF’s.  Most of the EFSF’s instruments will transfer to the new
fund after its Oct. 8 launch. Two leveraging tools, created last
year and so far never requested or used, will not be available
until more technical details are worked out.  The ESM will need to rotate its external auditors every six
years, according to the draft bylaws, which need to be approved
by finance ministers. Firms hired for audit services won’t be
allowed to provide non-audit-related consulting services, the
drafts show.  The regulations on outside firms are in line with proposals
from European Union Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier , who has been trying to enact audit rules across the 27-
nation EU since November 2011. Those proposals have languished
amid controversy on whether mandatory rotation would hurt
credibility of EU markets.  The Luxembourg-based ESM will be managed by Klaus Regling,
a former German Finance Ministry and European Commission
official who also heads the temporary fund.  The ESM’s board of auditors will include “two members
nominated by the supreme audit institutions of two ESM members,
one from the group of half of the ESM members holding the
highest number of shares of the ESM and the other from the group
of remaining ESM members, according to a rotation system
following the English alphabetical order of the names of the ESM
members in each group,” according to Article 24 of the draft
bylaws.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  