-- Germany Maintains Fourth-Quarter Bond Sales Amid Low Costs
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-09-25T09:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/germany-maintains-fourth-quarter-bond-sales-on-debt-s-low-costs.html
Germany  will leave unchanged the
amount of bonds it intends to sell in the fourth quarter as it
taps high demand and interest rates touch record lows, the
Federal Finance Agency in  Frankfurt  said.  The federal government will sell 52 billion euros ($68
billion) in bonds and bills between October and December, equal
to an amount set in June, the agency said. The government in
Berlin has used better-than-expected tax growth in recent years
to slash its debt sales in the last quarter of the year.  “Why should we leave this successful way?” Carl Heinz Daube, the agency’s managing director, said in an interview
today after the calendar was released. Low German yields are a
“fortunate problem for us to have -- our issue supply is
adapted in volume and timing according to market demand.”  Germany won’t sell bonds with a negative coupon, Daube
said. “A number of investors can no longer afford to buy the
German credit,” Daube said, though he added he has “no crystal
ball” to gauge when Germany would have to pay more interest to
attract investors.  Germany is maintaining issuance as cheap borrowing cushions
the impact of slowing revenue growth.  Europe ’s biggest economy
may grow 0.7 percent this year, less than a quarter of last
year’s pace. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has shrugged
off opposition-party critics who said net new planned borrowing
of 32 billion euros this year is too high.  Rescue Fund  Schaeuble boosted borrowing to pay into the permanent euro-
area rescue fund. Opposition parties said the government should
be slashing spending amid weaker economic growth and a growing
burden to support the single currency.  Daube said the 500 billion-euro European Stability
Mechanism, due to open for business next month, won’t hurt
German bonds. Germany is the fund’s biggest underwriter. “I see
no impact,” said Daube. “They are just different asset classes
which can have the same ratings but different risk-return
profiles.”  German bonds returned 2.6 percent so far this year, beating
U.S. Treasuries, which handed investors a 1.9 percent gain
during the same period, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. U.K. gilts gained 2.5 percent.  The yield on 10-year German bunds dropped two basis points
to 1.54 percent as of 9:35 a.m. London time. It dropped to
record low 1.127 percent on June 29. The nation’s average yield
dropped to all-time low 1.177 percent on June 1, according to
EFFAS.  The Frankfurt-based agency will seek “opportunistic”
windows to sell bonds in foreign denominations including U.S.
dollar bonds. He declined to say whether Germany will sell a 30-
year inflation bond. The agency will closely monitor the market
to guage whether to sell inflation bonds with novel maturities,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  