-- German Consumer Confidence Will Hold Steady in October, GfK Says
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-09-25T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/german-consumer-confidence-will-hold-steady-in-october-gfk-says.html
German  consumer confidence  will
hold steady in October as a less pessimistic economic outlook
offsets falling income expectations,  GfK SE (GFK)  said.  The market-research company in Nuremberg forecast today
that its consumer-sentiment index, based on a survey of about
2,000 people, will remain at 5.9 for a second straight month,
matching the median of 25 economist estimates in a Bloomberg
News  survey . The index was last higher in March 2011.  German business confidence unexpectedly declined to the
lowest in more than two and a half years in September as
recessions in at least five of the 17 countries using the euro
curb export demand. Still, the Bundesbank expects Europe’s
largest economy to continue to grow this year as unemployment at
a two-decade low boosts consumption.  “The fear of German consumers that the economy will slip
into recession did not increase further,” GfK said in a
statement. “But uncertainty of consumers with regard to their
future financial prospects has risen in recent weeks.”  The gauge of economic expectations rose to minus 17.2 in
September from minus 18.9 in August, while an index measuring
income expectations dropped to 23.9 from 31.6, GfK said. A
measure of willingness to buy remained at 33.1.  Economic Growth  Inflation accelerated for the first time in six months in
August after  oil prices  surged and unemployment edged higher for
a fifth straight month. Economic growth slowed to 0.3 percent in
the second quarter from 0.5 percent in the first.  With exports to debt-strapped countries like  Greece ,  Spain 
and  Italy  dwindling, the “German economy is finding it ever
more difficult to escape the wide-spread recessionary movement
throughout Europe,” GfK said. “Consumption therefore continues
to truly fulfill its role as a reliable supporting pillar for
the economy.”  The German economy made a “very good start” to the third
quarter and recent data “speak in favor of  Germany  continuing
its upward course for now,” the Bundesbank said in its  monthly
report  yesterday. “Still, the outlook for future economic
developments continues to be subject to great uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  