-- Google’s Driverless Cars Permitted by New California Law
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-09-25T23:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/google-s-driverless-cars-permitted-by-new-california-law.html
Self-driving cars will be permitted
to motor around the most populous U.S. state, at least on a test
basis, after  California  Governor  Jerry Brown  signed a law
written with the help of  Google Inc. (GOOG)   The new  law  allows testing of autonomous vehicles on the
state’s roadways as long as there’s a fully licensed human in
the driver’s seat to take over if needed.  “Today we are looking at science fiction become tomorrow’s
reality,” Brown said at a signing ceremony at Google’s
headquarters in  Mountain View , California.  Google, the operator of the world’s largest Internet search
engine, has modified a Toyota Prius that drives itself using
video cameras, radar sensors, a laser rangefinder and detailed
maps. The vehicle includes a failsafe mechanism that lets the
driver take control of the car simply by grabbing the steering
wheel or hitting the brakes, much like the override on a cruise
control.  While major carmakers are working on self-driving
prototypes and rolling out semi-autonomous features such as
parking assistance, lane-departure warning systems and adaptive
cruise control, it’s Google’s car that’s inspired the regulatory
push first in  Nevada  last year and now in California.  “Anybody who gets into a car and finds the car driving
itself is going to be skittish at first,” said Brown, who took
a test ride. “But they will get over it.”  The law directs the Department of Motor Vehicles to develop
regulations governing the licensing, bonding, testing and
operation of autonomous vehicles.  Google’s shares lost less than 1 percent to $749.16 at the
close in New York. The stock has advanced 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  