-- Greek Protests in Athens End After Police Use Tear Gas
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-09-26T17:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/greek-general-strike-marks-first-test-for-samaras-s-coalition.html
Protests in  Athens  ended today
after police fired tear gas in response to fire-bombs thrown by
demonstrators during a strike over wage cuts and austerity that
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras said are vital to keep the euro.  Demonstrators earlier filled central Syntagma Square in
Athens, opposite the Parliament House, shouting slogans such as
“struggle, clash, overturn: history gets written by those who
disobey.” Police spokesman Takis Papapetropoulos estimated the
crowd at 35,000 people. Police said 105 people were detained, 21
were arrested and 8 officers were injured.  Greek government spokesman Simos Kedikoglou, speaking in a
phone interview, acknowledged that the strike was a significant
protest while saying Greeks understand the government is moving
in the right direction and a majority want to keep the euro.  Schools, hospitals, ferries and government services shut
down in the first walkout since February. Shops closed from 3
p.m. today to let staff take part in demonstrations. Public
transport operated to allow protesters to attend rallies in
Athens city center. A three-hour walkout by air traffic
controllers disrupted flights around the country.  ‘Tough Time’  “The strike marks the beginning of what is likely to be a
tough time for Samaras as demonstrations and industrial action
heighten in the weeks ahead,” said  Wolfango Piccoli , an
economist at Eurasia Group in  London . “Samaras should be mainly
concerned about how much time he has left to tackle all these
interrelated challenges.”  The shutdowns, called to protest the cuts to benefits,
wages and pensions that will form the bulk of an 11.5 billion-
euro ($14.8 billion)  austerity  package, comes as speculation
swirls anew about  Greece ’s finances.  International Monetary Fund 
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said on Sept. 24 that the
financing gap won’t be solved by the savings because a weak
economy and delayed asset-sales worsened Greece’s finances.  Athens, the capital, has been wracked with demonstrations
by groups ranging from police officers to parents of three or
more children in the past week as Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras remained locked in talks with officials from the
European Union, the IMF and the  European Central Bank .  Fire-Bombs  Hooded youths throwing fire-bombs at police were met with
tear gas today. Teams of riot police guarded the  Finance
Ministry  and surrounding streets.  The inspection of Greece’s finances by the so-called troika
will resume on Sept. 30 after a week’s pause. Samaras and
Stournaras agreed on the package, which includes 2 billion euros
in revenue raising measures, Kathimerini newspaper reported
today, without citing anyone.  Stournaras is to brief the two leaders of the coalition
parties supporting Samaras later today, a Finance Ministry
official said. The package will be submitted to parliament next
week, Kathimerini said.  The efforts to find the savings by Samaras’s three-way
coalition, which took power following June 17 elections, still
won’t be enough to put back on track the 130 billion-euro
bailout, Lagarde said.  The IMF has indicated that any additional financing for
Greece will have to come from  Europe , where officials have told
Samaras no discussion can be held on debt relief or on extending
the time to implement measures until he honors pledges made for
the country’s second rescue package. The coalition agreement
includes pushing to spread the austerity measures over four
years rather than two.  Needing Support  “If the coalition is united, it can extract some
concessions from the official lenders, otherwise the negotiation
will ultimately fail,” said  Riccardo Barbieri , the chief
European economist at Mizuho International in London. “It looks
like they are not totally behind the finance minister’s
proposals due also to strong popular opposition.”  Samaras, 61, and his New Democracy party forged an alliance
with the socialist Pasok and Democratic Left as two inconclusive
elections in May and June threatened to tip the country into an
uncontrolled financial collapse and out of the euro area.  Agreement from the troika is imperative to allow the
release of 31 billion euros under Greece’s financing plan. That
payment is designed primarily to recapitalize the nation’s banks
in a bid to boost liquidity in a cash-starved economy.  The prime minister has been denied the political backing he
needs for the package twice from his coalition partners.  Recession  Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos , a former finance
minister, and Fotis Kouvelis of Democratic Left both balked at
signing off on some 7 billion euros worth of wage and pension
cuts in a country gripped by a fifth year of  recession  and with
nearly a quarter of the workforce unemployed.  “The political backdrop will worsen as a result of the
mounting tensions within the ruling coalition over the troika-
demanded austerity package,” said Piccoli at Eurasia. “Some
defections during the parliamentary vote are expected but the
coalition government will maintain its majority.”  With New Democracy holding 128 of the Greek Parliament’s
300 seats, Samaras relies on Pasok’s 33 seats and Democratic
Left’s 17 to secure parliamentary approval of any pledge made to
international lenders.  Opinion polls since the June election have shown anti-
bailout party Syriza, which has vowed to renege on all pledges
made to the EU and IMF, and  New Democracy  tying for first place
if elections were to be held again.  Museum Guards  Polls show continued dissatisfaction with economic
policies. More than 57 percent said the country shouldn’t keep
to pledges made in exchange for the bailout as the policies have
failed, compared with 40 percent who said it should stick to its
commitments, according to a Metron Analysis poll for Ependytis
newspaper.  That was reflected nationwide today. Workers joining the
strike included guards at museums and archaeological sites, as
well as teachers and nurses.  International lenders held back funds pledged under two
rescue packages totaling 240 billion euros in the wake of the
election impasse, which derailed reforms, halted state-asset
sales and stoked concerns about Greece’s euro status.  Opposition to reforms is “particularly difficult to
overcome in a market environment where sentiment might be
against you or in an economic environment where times are
extremely tough,” said Lucy O’Carroll, chief economist at
Scottish Widows Investment in Edinburgh. “And Greece is
absolutely up there in the scale of all-time recessions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  