-- UBS Co-Workers Knew of Fake Trades, Adoboli Told Lawyer
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-09-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/gruebel-brought-more-risk-to-ubs-equity-desk-head-says.html
Kweku Adoboli’s co-workers knew he
was making fictitious trades, the former  UBS AG (UBSN)  banker told an
attorney who interviewed him on the night of his arrest in
September 2011.  Adoboli told  Damien Byrne Hill , a lawyer at Herbert Smith
LLP who represented the Swiss bank, that his colleagues on the
exchange-traded funds desk were aware of fake trades from May,
though they didn’t know the extent of his positions.  Hill’s notes from the discussion with Adoboli, read out by
a prosecutor at the former trader’s fraud trial in London
yesterday, indicated that while his colleagues were “unhappy”
about the trades, they didn’t alert managers.  “I f----d up,” Adoboli said he told the other traders,
according to the lawyer’s notes. “I’m trying to make it a bit
better.”  Adoboli, 32, has pleaded not guilty to charges of fraud and
false accounting over unauthorized trades on which UBS lost $2.3
billion. The former trader admitted hours before his arrest that
he had risked $5 billion on Standard & Poor’s 500 futures and a
further $3.75 billion in the German futures market, a former
manager testified.  John Hughes , the former senior trader on the ETF desk, said
Adoboli told him in January last year about an internal account
he called his umbrella. Prosecutors allege Adoboli created the
account to pool profit from trades he hadn’t booked to use to
cover up future losses.  An Umbrella  “You live in blue sky scenarios,” Hughes wrote in an
instant-message exchange with Adoboli in January 2011.  “It often rains,” Adoboli responded. “I learned that
last year. So I built an umbrella.”  Hughes, 30, testified he thought the umbrella referred to a
profit pool that hadn’t been booked and could be used later. He
said he didn’t report his colleague, “because I’m stupid.”  “I should have reported him,” Hughes said. “To this day,
I wish I had.”  Hughes said he had reported Adoboli for exceeding his
trading limits in December 2010 to John Bennie, a senior
equities trader at UBS, and afterwards felt guilty about it
because Adoboli was “told off.”  Hill’s notes indicated Adoboli admitted building up
positions of as much as $10 billion by August 2011 and masking
them with fictitious ETF trades. When other traders noticed he
was stressed, Adoboli told them it was a result of splitting up
with his girlfriend, according to Hill’s notes.  Risk Ethos  Phil Allison, UBS AG’s head of global cash equities,
testified that there was “a change of ethos” under former
Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  who encouraged more risk
taking at the bank, including proprietary trading, to increase
profits.  “If a bank doesn’t take any risk, it is incredibly hard to
make money, and that is our job,” Allison said. Gruebel thought
“there was room for more market risk, which in general was a
view I agreed with.”  Gruebel stepped down after the loss the bank attributed to
Adoboli.  Allison said he has spent “sleepless nights” thinking
about whether he missed red flags that Adoboli may have been
placing unauthorized trades.  “We felt we were putting two intelligent individuals in
the center of the floor” when the bank put Adoboli and his
former colleague John Hughes in charge of the exchange-traded
funds desk, Allison said. “It is not one where I’ve thought,
‘Gosh, that’s something I should’ve done differently.’”  Allison said he wished that the bank had “clearly written
and documented” their risk limits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  