-- IBM’s Ginni Rometty Completes Ascent by Adding Chairman Role
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-09-26T21:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/ibm-s-ceo-ginni-rometty-succeeds-palmisano-as-board-chairman.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty will succeed former
CEO  Sam Palmisano  as chairman of the board, cementing her
transition as leader of the century-old company.  Rometty, 55, will take the new role on Oct. 1, the same day
that Palmisano steps down from the board, Armonk, New York-based
IBM said yesterday in a statement. Palmisano, 61, will become a
senior adviser until he retires on Dec. 1.  Rometty took the reins at IBM in January, becoming the
company’s ninth CEO and its first female leader, following
stints in services, sales, strategy and marketing. During her
ascent, she oversaw the integration of PricewaterhouseCoopers
Consulting, helping IBM build a staff of more than 100,000
consultants. Now she faces the challenge of reinvigorating
revenue after years of favoring profit over top-line growth.  “She’s an operations and a sales person,” said Laurence Balter, an analyst with Oracle Investment Research in Fox
Island,  Washington . “That bodes well for the role as IBM starts
to focus on their global growth, and she’s really a global-
minded leader. It’s a good move from the board’s point of
view.”  Even so, IBM missed an opportunity to keep the two jobs
separate, something other companies are increasingly doing, said
 Charles Elson , a corporate-governance professor at the
 University of Delaware . Splitting the roles makes it easier for
a board to stand up against a CEO if something goes wrong.  Countering Trends  “They are swimming against the current,” Elson said in an
interview. “Good governance practice is to split, and a
changeover is a good opportunity to do that.”  IBM shares fell  less than 1 percent  to $204 at the close in
New York. The stock has climbed 11 percent this year.  IBM has maintained  profit growth  by shifting to higher-
margin software sales and cutting expenses -- a strategy that
Rometty has said she will continue. The company raised its
annual profit forecast in July to at least $15.10 a share,
topping analysts’ estimates.  IBM, the world’s biggest computer-services provider, aims
to get half of its earnings from software by 2015, a move away
from less-profitable hardware and services.  Sales Slump  Still, sales growth has slowed. Revenue fell 3 percent to
$25.8 billion last quarter, dragged down by sluggish demand for
hardware and currency fluctuations. Analysts had predicted sales
of $26.3 billion, the average of estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg .  Rometty sees an opportunity for growth by selling software
in developing economies and creating programs that work with
cloud computing and business analytics.  The 30-year IBM veteran caught Palmisano’s attention in
2002 when she helped integrate the $3.9 billion acquisition of
PwC Consulting,  IBM’s largest deal ever  at the time. Rometty,
then a general manager of the consulting unit, said she knew
from the start the acquisition would be challenging.  “It was the first and only time a professional services
firm of that size has been integrated into another large
company,” she said when she was named to the CEO job.  Palmisano promoted her to senior vice president of the
group in 2005, and she boosted  profit  at the unit 42 percent in
her first two years on the job. During her three decades at IBM,
she became known as a polished executive who can close a sale,
expanding relationships with companies ranging from State Farm
Insurance Co. to Prudential Financial Inc.  Engineering Degree  Rometty has technical background, with a degree in computer
science and electrical engineering from  Northwestern University .
After school, she took an internship with General Motors in
 Detroit , where she met her husband, Mark. She then  joined  IBM in
1981.  This month Rometty was named the most powerful woman in
business by  Fortune magazine , ahead of PepsiCo Inc. CEO Indra Nooyi and Hewlett-Packard Co. CEO  Meg Whitman .  Her CEO appointment also led to scrutiny of the Augusta
National Golf Club, which traditionally invites the leader of
IBM to join. The club didn’t allow women members until last
month, when it added former Secretary of State  Condoleezza Rice 
and financier Darla Moore. Augusta National hasn’t made any
announcement about Rometty’s membership.  Palmisano served as CEO between 2002 and 2012, and has been
chairman since 2003. Rometty’s ascension to the chairman job is
happening faster than anticipated, Oracle Investment’s Balter
said.  “She’s proven herself obviously, so I think this is a
little shorter time than expected,” he said. “I thought she’d
be in the role until at least 2013 before being nominated
chairman.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  