-- Libya Sends Army to Run Militias Following Stevens Killing
-- B y   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-09-25T16:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/libya-sends-officers-to-run-militias-following-stevens-killing.html
Libyan authorities moved to absorb
militias into the security forces, appointing army officers to
head Islamist armed groups in an effort to assert central
government control.  The new leadership for the Benghazi Islamist militias,
Rafallah al-Sahati and the February 17 Brigades, announced
yesterday by the military, came at the tail-end of a 48-hour
deadline for militias to disarm, the Libyan  News Agency 
reported. The push followed mass weekend protests against the
groups in Benghazi -- demonstrations sparked by outrage over the
killing of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other
Americans in the city during Sept. 11 protests.  The demonstrations and the decree to disarm reflect a
paradox confronting the yet-to-be formed government of Prime
Minister-elect Mustafa Abushagur. The new administration has
said it is committed to dealing with the militias, even though
many played a key role in last year’s uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi  and were called upon by the former transitional
government to provide interim security at a time when government
forces and police were largely ineffective.  The 48-hour deadline, issued by Mohamed Magarief, the head
of the newly elected National Congress, “was meant to show the
intent and seriousness of the Libyan government in disarming the
armed brigades,” Mohamad Al-Akari, a spokesman for Abushagur,
said in interview in Tripoli. “It is quite clear that we cannot
disarm everyone in two days, and this deadline should not be
seen as a timeframe, but as a demonstration of authority.”  Protester Arrests  “We are now in a process of democracy,” he said. “The
brigades that are voluntarily disarming will receive training
and integration into the police and army.”  Mass protests that started on Sept. 21 forced two Islamist
militias in Benghazi to disband. One, Ansar al-Shariah, was
accused by the government of links to the killing of Stevens.  Rafallah al-Sahati, which was among those targeted by mobs
of protesters over the weekend, initially appeared to push back
against the marchers and the government warning, arresting more
than 100 people it and other groups said were behind the
demonstrations against them. Even so, they said in an interview
yesterday they’d accept an army-appointed leadership.  The Rafallah brigade defended the arrests, with Ishmael
Salabi, who described himself as an assistant commander, saying
many were former military under the deposed Qaddafi regime.  Economic Struggle  “These people have been trying to get power,” he said
late yesterday in an interview. “They were in power under
Qaddafi and now they have nothing.”  It’s a delicate time for  Libya , which is struggling to
revive its economy and lure back investors to the country, site
of  Africa ’s largest proven oil reserves.  In a demonstration of the country’s instability, government
forces outside the legislative building, near Tripoli’s Rixos
Hotel, came under fire today from members of a militia from the
city of Misrata. Al-Akari said a rocket-propelled grenade was
fired at troops, who returned fire. He did not specify the what
triggered the attack in which no casualties were reported.  The militias, many of which were licensed by the interim
National Transitional Council and whose loyalties are either
Islamist or tribal, have at times challenged the central
government’s authority even as they provided security for key
installations such as airports and hospitals. The new
government, however, cannot sit idle and will require
international support, said Khalil al-Anani, a political analyst
at Durham University in the U.K.  Legitimacy Issue  “At some point, you have to challenge them,” al-Anani
said in a phone interview, referring to the militias. “It’s an
issue of legitimacy.  ‘‘Any attempt to compromise or give military concessions to
the militias will encourage them to challenge the state,’’ he
said.  In a speech before the  United Nations  today, President
 Barack Obama  called the assaults on the consulate and a second
U.S. site in Libya ‘‘attacks on America,’’ and vowed the nation
would be ‘‘relentless’’ in tracking down the killers.  He also warned that newly-elected leaders in countries such
as Libya and  Egypt  face the same anger and extremism that led to
the attacks targeting the U.S.  Libyan officials have pledged to work closely with U.S.
investigators, with Magarief, the head of the legislature,
saying yesterday in  New York  the attack ‘‘did not reflect in any
way’’ the views of the Libyan people, the state-run LNA said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brigitte Scheffer in Tripoli at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Stephen in Benghazi at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  