-- Argentina Rejects Lagarde’s Soccer Threats in Data Dispute
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-09-25T21:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/imf-shouldn-t-threaten-argentina-president-fernandez-says.html
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  used soccer terminology to lash out at
International Monetary Fund chief  Christine Lagarde  for
threatening the country with censure over disputed inflation
data.  The IMF should focus on the global economic crisis and more
countries should adopt  Argentina ’s policies to limit capital
flight, Fernandez said today at the  United Nations General
Assembly . The IMF on Sept. 17 threatened to censure Argentina if
it doesn’t improve its inflation reports by December. It would
be the first time a country faces that penalty, which can end
with “compulsory withdrawal” from the IMF.  Lagarde, speaking in  Washington  on Sept. 24, said the IMF’s
decision amounted to giving  South America ’s second-biggest
economy a “yellow card” for failing to improve  inflation
reports  that economists say underestimate consumer price
increases by almost one-third. A yellow card is typically given
to a soccer player for committing a foul. A red card results in
expulsion from the game.  “My country is not a soccer team, it is a sovereign
country and as such is not going to accept a threat,” Fernandez
said in her UN speech. “This is not a soccer game, this is the
most serious economic crisis since the 1930s.”  $95 Billion Default  Argentina and the IMF have squared off since the country’s
2001 default on $95 billion of bonds, which Fernandez’s late
husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , blamed on the
Washington-based lender.  Argentina is the only member of the Group of 20 nations
that has refused to allow the IMF to do its annual review of the
country’s economy, a procedure known as an Article IV
consultation.  The country’s inflation data has been under question since
2007, when Kirchner began replacing personnel at the national
statistics agency in a bid to “improve operations.” Last year
the government fined more than a dozen researchers as much as
500,000 pesos ($107,000) each for reporting inflation rates that
were higher than official data.  To avoid fines, economists now share their research with
opposition lawmakers, who release a monthly report based on the
data. The September report said prices rose 24 percent in August
from a year earlier. Two days later, the statistics agency said
annual inflation was 10 percent.  “I’m determined to make sure that we have the right
data,” Lagarde said in her Washington speech. “We’ll be on the
other side of the table and I hope we can avoid the red card but
if the data is not suitable, is not appropriate, does not meet
the standards, then all players are the same, Argentinians
alike, despite how good they are at soccer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  