-- IMF Says Bank Rules Lag on Safety, Too-Big-to-Fail Stays
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-09-25T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/imf-says-bank-rules-lag-on-safety-too-big-to-fail-stays.html
New financial regulations have yet
to make markets safer and financial systems are still too
complex, according to an  International Monetary Fund  report.  In some regions, financial reform measures are delaying a
“reboot” to a safer economic system, the IMF said today in
 Washington . Risks remain that too-big-to-fail institutions will
be further entrenched and that some bank-like activities will be
pushed into the shadow banking system, the IMF report said.  “The data suggest that financial systems are still overly
complex, banking assets are concentrated, with strong domestic
interbank linkages, and the too-important-to-fail issues are
unresolved,” the Washington-based lender said in the report.  The IMF report on financial reform comes as the U.S. is
still implementing its 2010 Dodd-Frank law in response to the
financial crisis. In addition, the European Union is attempting
to create a single supervisor by handing the European Central
Bank oversight powers over banks in the euro area.  The IMF said the financial system is not safer than before
the crisis due to the greater interconnectedness and role of
shadow banking. The IMF said it remains particularly concerned
about too-big-to fail banks.  “Overall, risks in the financial system remain,” the IMF
said as part of its Global Financial Stability Report.
“Of particular concern are the larger size of financial
institutions, the greater concentration and domestic
interconnectedness of financial systems, and the continued
importance of non-banks in overall intermediation.”  More Concentrated  The IMF said there is still the risk that “in some markets
large institutions will become larger still, and more
concentrated, and that these few global institutions will become
even more influential -- thereby further entrenching the too-
important-to-fail problem.”  Today’s IMF report is more critical of regulation than a
study released Sept. 11 by IMF staff which found that new
financial regulations will cause a “modest” increase in the
interest rates banks charge on loans in developed countries as
lenders reduce costs.  Through Dodd-Frank, the U.S. is implementing “resolution
authority” that spells out how and when the government can
seize and wind down struggling large banks and systemic non-
banks before they catastrophically fail. Euro-area leaders are
attempting to establish a central regulator and a resolution
mechanism for bad banks backed by common funds from  member
states  that could reduce concerns that customers will lose money
when lenders fail.  Even Bigger  The financial crisis has resulted in even bigger and more
interconnected banking groups and financial institutions, the
IMF said.  “The officially inspired mergers, the nationalization of
banks, and the extension of government underwritten guarantees
that have been part of crisis management strategies all further
instill the notion that some banks are too important to fail,
potentially undermining the credibility of bail-ins,” the IMF
said. “These interventions could result in more concentration,
rather than less.”  The IMF said new capital rules from the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  should “enable institutions to better
withstand distress” while possibly also resulting in unintended
responses, such as pushing certain activities to the nonbank
sector where those standards don’t apply.  Dodd-Frank  The IMF cautioned that main elements of financial reform
have not yet been implemented. As of September 4, 131 Dodd-Frank
rules have been finalized while 132 requirements have not yet
been proposed by regulators, according to a  Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP  progress report on the law.  “Some crucial elements of the reform are yet to be
finalized, and many have not yet been implemented,” the IMF
said in its report. “This leaves open the possibility of
differences in their implementation or application, particularly
as they trickle down from the international to the national
level.”  European Union leaders in June called for a new banking
supervisory system and underlined urgency in setting up the new
system. In a speech yesterday, IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  urged European policy makers to implement their plans to
form a banking union.  ‘Vicious Cycle’  “We have advocated this for some time,” Lagarde said.
“We continue to believe it should be initiated as soon as
possible -- to break the vicious cycle between banks and
sovereigns.”  Also, the IMF said evaluating the impact of these reforms
is “challenging because the reforms are in process, the crisis
is still not over, and crisis management policies are ongoing in
some regions.”  In a separate report, the IMF said there are “trade-offs”
between the benefits of financial reform on growth and
stability. In the report, the IMF studied the relationships of
financial structures from 1998 to 2010.  “On the positive side, protective financial buffers within
banks have been associated with better economic outcomes,” the
IMF said in its report. “On the negative side, a domestic
financial system that is dominated by some types of
nontraditional bank intermediation has in some cases been
associated with adverse economic outcomes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  