-- Immofinanz May Sweeten Unit With German Assets Ahead of IPO
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-09-25T16:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/immofinanz-may-sweeten-unit-with-german-assets-ahead-of-ipo.html
Immofinanz AG (IIA)  may add German assets
to its Buwog Austrian residential unit to make it more
attractive to investors ahead of a possible initial public
offering, Chief Executive Officer Eduard Zehetner said.  “German residential is currently sexy for whatever
reason,” he said today at an analyst briefing. “If Buwog was
listed in  Germany , it would trade around its net asset value,”
compared with 50 percent for Immofinanz currently.  Foreign investment in Germany’s housing market surged this
year as private-equity firms, insurance companies and pension
funds seek better returns than bonds while avoiding countries
roiled by Europe’s debt crisis. A sale of apartments owned by
 Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  may be the next big deal after
private-equity firms including New York-based Blackstone Group
LP and Cerberus Capital Management LP made purchases this year.  A spinoff of Buwog, which owns 2.4 billion euros ($3.1
billion) of Austrian homes, could be completed within the next
two years including the purchase and integration of German
assets, said Zehetner. The sale would sharpen Immofinanz’s focus
on commercial properties and make it easier for investors to
understand the company, he said.  About half of Immofinanz’s 10.4 billion euros of properties
and development projects are in eastern  Europe , where it’s the
biggest publicly traded real estate company. Most of the assets
in that region and in Germany are commercial properties such as
offices, shops and warehouses. Buwog accounts for about a
quarter of Immofinanz’s assets.  Shares Climb  Immofinanz was up 0.6 percent to 2.93 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close in Vienna, the highest close since July 2011. The
shares have gained 35 percent in the past 12 months and now
trade at more than 10 times their low in November 2008, a week
before Zehetner joined the management board when the company was
close to collapse.  The CEO said there’s no certainty a Buwog IPO will happen.
Earlier this month he told Boerse-Express that there’s currently
no market for a sale.  Zehetner said that Immofinanz is close to concluding
several asset sales as part of his plan to sell 500 million
euros of properties annually in the five years to 2015. While
sales in the first quarter fell short of the target at 83.5
million euros, the company will meet the full-year goal, he
said.  Profit Drop  Immofinanz profit fell by 67 percent in the fiscal first
quarter on currency and derivative losses and smaller gains in
the value of its properties. Net income declined to 9.2 million
euros in the three months through July from 28.2 million euros a
year earlier, the Vienna-based company said in a statement
today. Rental income climbed 14 percent to 162.3 million euros.  Zehetner, who reinstated dividends in 2011 after a four-
year hiatus, said he will divert some of the funds earmarked for
dividends and spend them on buying back shares as long as they
trade more than 40 percent below NAV. The company yesterday said
it would cut by 25 percent the 20-cent dividend planned for this
fiscal year and spend about 50 million euros on a share buyback
over the next seven months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 