-- Bumi Resources Debt Refinance at Risk as S&P Follows Moody’s
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-09-26T11:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/indonesia-regulator-sees-no-reason-to-examine-bumi-resources.html
PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) , the Indonesian
coal producer at the heart of a London probe amid claims of
irregularities, may struggle to refinance debt in the next year,
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service said.  S&P today cut its long-term rating on Bumi Resources by one
step to B+ from BB-, it said in a statement. Moody’s changed the
outlook on the company to negative from stable yesterday.  Bumi Plc, the London-listed 29 percent-shareholder in Bumi
Resources, on Sept. 24 said it had commissioned an urgent probe
into “potential financial and other irregularities” at its
Indonesian operations, especially the Jakarta-based coal miner.  “The investigation could weaken Bumi Resources’ access to
the  capital markets  and test its ability to refinance its short-
term debt,” S&P said. It also lowered the issue rating on the
company’s guaranteed senior secured notes and placed both
ratings on Credit Watch with negative implications.  Bumi Plc, the London-listed venture founded by  Nathaniel Rothschild , has hired lawyers to probe the writedown of as much
as $637 million of so-called development funds and exploration
assets. Bumi Resources has debt of $3.95 billion, $300 million
of which falls due in the next 12 months, according to Moody’s.
S&P put that figure at $400 million.  “We don’t believe that there are any issues with regard to
the settlement of debt or other things,”  Dileep Srivastava ,
director at Bumi Resources, said by phone. “Our concentration
is on getting our operations right, increasing our production to
100 million tons, trying to cut costs, to monetize our non-core
assets, get down to settling debt, get down to reducing interest
charges.”  No Notice  Bumi Resources received no advance notice of  Bumi Plc (BUMI) ’s
probe or the press release, it said today in an e-mailed
statement. The company said it’s in contact with  Indonesia ’s
capital markets regulator and the stock exchange and “will be
acting to resolve these matters as expeditiously as possible.”  Bumi Resources shares fell 4.4 percent to 660 rupiah at
3:39 p.m. in Jakarta. The shares have declined 70 percent this
year, hurt by falling coal prices and concerns it may struggle
to pay debt. Bumi Resources owes $1.3 billion to China
Investment Corp.  In London, Bumi Plc fell as much as 11 percent to 149 pence
and traded 8.6 percent lower as of 12:35 p.m. The stock dropped
25 percent on Sept. 24 to the lowest on record.  Slower Growth  Bumi Resources’ $700 million of bonds due October 2017 have
slumped 19.5 cents this week to 74 cents on the dollar as of
4:35 p.m. in  Hong Kong , according to BNP Paribas SA prices. The
company sold the bonds in September 2010 to yield 10.75 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes yield 19
percent, up from 12.5 percent on Sept. 21, BNP prices show.  “The investigation comes at a time of slower production
growth over the next 12 months than we earlier expected and
continued subdued coal prices that further constrain the
company’s cash flows and weaken its debt-servicing ability and
credit ratios,” S&P said.  Moody’s negative outlook reflects concerns that “the
lingering corporate governance issues at Bumi Resources will
impact its ability to refinance its scheduled loan maturities of
over $300 million in 2013,”  Simon Wong , a vice president at the
ratings company, said in a statement yesterday.  The allegations at the center of the probe pit Rothschild,
41, against Indonesia’s Bakrie family, the part-owners of Bumi
Resources, which includes billionaire Aburizal Bakrie, the 2014
presidential candidate for the nation’s second-biggest party.
Indonesia’s capital markets regulator said it has no grounds to
investigate Bumi Resources.  Different Standards  “We have spoken to Bumi Resources for clarification on the
news developments,” Anis Baridwan, a head of corporate
financial assessment at Indonesia’s Capital Market and Financial
Institution Supervisory Agency, or Bapepam-LK, said by phone in
Jakarta. “We don’t have any reason” to investigate the company
and have had no contact with Bumi Plc yet, he said.  The controversy over the writedown is possibly a matter of
differing accounting treatments “under two accounting standards
in different countries,” Srivastava said.  Macfarlanes LLP, a London-based lawfirm, has been appointed
to handle the independent probe, which is likely to take weeks,
another person familiar with the investigation said. An official
at the firm declined to comment yesterday.  The Bumi Plc board is considering a split from Bumi
Resources to revive investor confidence, the Financial Times
reported, without saying how it obtained the information.  Stock Downgrade  Bumi Plc was downgraded to underweight from overweight by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. equity analyst Fraser Jamieson with a 15-
month target price of 100 pence a share.  The investigation is the latest turn in an acrimonious
partnership that began with a $3 billion deal in 2010 that
married the centuries-old British banking dynasty with a family-
owned palm oil-to-property-empire started in Sumatra in 1942.  “We haven’t seen what these allegations are,” said
Kenneth Allan, a director at Borneo Lumbung Energi, which owns
30 percent of Bumi Plc. “It’s just a broad brush in the press
release that said there were some allegations of some
impropriety.”  The Indonesia stock exchange sent a letter to Bumi
Resources on Sept. 24 asking management to explain this case and
expects a response this week, Uriep Budhi Prasetyo, compliance
director at the exchange, said in a text message.  Napoleonic France  The probe comes almost 11 months after Rothschild, whose
ancestor helped bankroll Britain’s war against Napoleonic
 France , made public a letter to then-Bumi Plc CEO Hudaya calling
for a “radical cleaning up” of the company and a timetable for
the “repatriation of funds deposited with connected parties.”  The Nov. 8 letter cited $394 million of business
development funds under non-current assets on the balance sheet
of Bumi Resources as of June 20, 2011.  The probe will focus on “extensive” development funds at
Bumi Resources and an asset in PT Berau Coal Energy, which were
marked down to zero in the accounts of Bumi Plc as of Dec. 31,
the company said. It gave no figures for the writedown.  According to its 2011 annual report published in April,
Bumi Plc wrote down the value of exploration assets by $390
million to zero. It also cut the value of business development
funds by $247 million.  PT Bakrie & Brothers -- controlled by Aburizal Bakrie, who
is the brother of Bumi Plc Co-Chairman Indra Bakrie -- sold half
of their 47.6 percent stake in Bumi Plc in November to help pay
$1.35 billion in debts owed to Credit Suisse Group AG. Aburizal
is the chairman of the Golkar Party of Indonesia, which was
founded by former dictator Suharto.  Bumi CEO Nalin Rathod said in a May interview that the
company was in talks to repay debt owed to CIC early as part of
a wider plan to reduce financing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  