-- Indonesia Should Boost Spending If Risks Materialize: IMF
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-09-26T01:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/indonesia-should-boost-spending-if-risks-materialize-imf.html
Indonesia  should use fiscal
stimulus as a first policy response if risks to growth
materialize because it has little room to cut interest rates,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Indonesia’s economic growth will slow to 6 percent this
year from 6.5 percent in 2011 and accelerate to 6.3 percent next
year, the Washington-based IMF’s staff predicted in an annual
assessment of the country’s economy released yesterday. The
central bank should stand ready to increase its policy rate if
inflation, now seen at 5 percent by the end of the year,
accelerates further, IMF staff said.  “There are significant external risks to the outlook,
accentuated by domestic factors,” the IMF staff wrote in the
report. If risks such as a worsening of  Europe ’s debt crisis or
a so-called hard landing in  China  materialize, “additional
discretionary spending would be the best channel,” according to
the report, which recommended preparing “a list of
infrastructure projects that could be quickly ramped up.”  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is increasing spending
on roads, seaports and airports as he woos investment to spur
Southeast Asia’s largest economy. More than a decade after the
Asian financial crisis forced the nation to seek an IMF bailout,
 Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service have raised
Indonesia to investment grade, and the country’s growth is among
the fastest in the Group of 20 nations.  Bank Indonesia  kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low 5.75 percent for seventh straight meeting in
September as accelerating economic growth and inflation reduced
the scope for monetary easing to counter an export slump.  “Increasing the policy rate does not appear necessary at
this stage -- staff analysis suggests that monetary tightening
could be achieved by allowing short-term rates to drift back
toward the policy rate, which has been unchanged at 5.75 percent
since February,” according to the report.  The IMF also estimated that the country’s real exchange
rate is “moderately undervalued” by zero to 10 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  