-- Infineon Predicts Sales to Drop as Much as 10 Percent
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-09-25T16:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/infineon-predicts-sales-to-drop-as-much-as-10-percent.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest semiconductor maker, predicted sales and
profitability will decline in the three months through December
as clients cut spending amid the economic slowdown. The stock
 dropped  6.1 percent.  Revenue will drop as much as 10 percent from the previous
quarter while operating profit will decline to between 5 percent
and 7 percent of sales from “close to” 12 percent, the company
said in a statement today. Infineon also predicted fiscal
fourth-quarter  sales  through September will be “slightly down”
compared with the third quarter.  The company, whose customers include carmaker Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG and consumer-electronics company Royal Philips
Electronics NV, said July 31 it will reduce spending to cope
with slowing chip demand. The spending cuts will mean trimming
capacity expansion rather than delaying development of
technologies such as 300-millimeter wafers, Neubiberg, Germany-
based Infineon has said.  ‘Slowing Economy’  “The slowing economy hits Infineon via its clients,” said
Jan Goehmann, an analyst at Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale
in Hanover. “Especially the car sector and industrial clients
seem to be reducing their orders.”  Infineon dropped 33.4 euro cents to 5.11 euros in Frankfurt
trading today. The shares have lost 12 percent this year, while
 Germany ’s DAX benchmark index gained 26 percent.  The global semiconductor industry will shrink 2 percent in
2012, equity researcher Exane said this month, after previously
predicting an increase of 1 percent. The industry’s third-
quarter results and fourth-quarter guidance are likely to
disappoint investors as inventories are high and year-end demand
looks weak, Exane said at the time.  Infineon, which is counting on demand for chips that
replace mechanical parts in cars, manage power in home
appliances and  wind turbines , and secure passports and
contactless payment cards, said it will “will define and
implement measures to improve profitability beyond the first
quarter.”  Missing Estimates  The credit rating of  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , Europe’s
largest chipmaker, was placed under review for a possible cut by
 Standard & Poor’s  last month.  STMicro predicted in July third-quarter revenue would grow
by about 2.5 percent from the previous period, indicating sales
may miss analysts’ estimates amid weaker demand. Chief Executive
Officer  Carlo Bozotti  said at the time that the global economy
was softening and the company had weaker bookings toward the end
of the second quarter, a trend that was continuing at the
beginning of July.  “Infineon is in a cyclical industry and its competitors
are not doing much better,” said Thomas Hofmann, an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart with a “hold”
recommendation on the stock. “Demand for chips from industrial
clients is low and will only pick up once the economy is picking
up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  