-- Institutional Investsors Say Alternatives Can Add Safety
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/institutional-investsors-say-alternatives-can-add-safety.html
Institutional investors say
alternative investments such as real estate, commodities and
private equity help protect them from volatility in traditional
assets.  Almost a third of institutional investors globally said
they can’t effectively manage risk because of unpredictable
market  volatility , according to a survey published today by
Boston- and Paris-based Natixis Global Asset Management. Sixty-
nine percent said it is essential to invest in alternatives to
diversify  investment risk .  “In their view, markets are driven more by economic and
political events than by fundamentals,” John T. Hailer, chief
executive officer of Natixis Global, said in a statement today.
“As a result, decisions are often made for defensive reasons.”  Fund companies including  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN)  and
 AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB)  have expanded alternative
investment offerings as clients have turned away from
traditional stock funds. Franklin agreed to pay about $183
million for a majority stake in K2 Advisors Holdings LLC, a
fund-of-hedge-funds manager, the  San Mateo , California-based
company said in a Sept. 19 regulatory filing.  In the U.S., 22 percent of institutional investors said
they can’t effectively manage risk because of volatility. The
figure was 32 percent globally. Eight of 10 respondents
worldwide said market volatility is “here to stay.”  “Until there’s job growth in the U.S., until there’s
certainty in  Europe , until we understand what all these
regulatory reforms are going to mean, it all leads to
uncertainty, which leads to volatility,” Hailer said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Natixis Global, owned by Paris-based bank  Natixis SA (KN) , had
$711 billion in assets under management as of June 30. It holds
stakes in 24 asset managers, according to the company’s website,
including quantitative hedge-fund manager AlphaSimplex Group,
Caspian Private Equity and real estate investment firm AEW
Capital Management LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  