-- Mitsubishi Estate Raises $143 Million to Buy REIT Assets
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-09-25T06:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/mitsubishi-estate-raises-143-million-to-buy-properties-for-reit.html
Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) ,  Japan ’s
largest developer by market value, raised 11.2 billion yen ($143
million) to buy four properties in Tokyo for its private real
estate investment trust.  Mitsubishi Jisho Investment Advisors Inc. , an asset
management arm of Mitsubishi Estate, bought one office building
and three apartments in Tokyo for the open-ended fund, President
Tetsuji Arimori said. About 75 percent of the new money raised
for the acquisitions was from pensions, while the rest came from
institutional investors, he said.  Mitsubishi, Mitsui Fudosan Co. and Nomura Real Estate
Holdings Inc. have started private REITs in the last two years
to meet increasing demand from the world’s second-largest
pension pool for investments other than traditional assets such
as stocks and bonds. The  fund  was set up in March 2011 as part
of Mitsubishi Estate’s long-term goal to more than double the
total assets under management to 5 trillion yen by 2020.  “It has become easier to raise funds as more investors,
compared with last fiscal year, recognize the characteristics
and advantages of investing in private REITs,” said Arimori in
an interview in  Tokyo . “In the short term, there could be a
certain degree of competition among asset managers, but that is
positive for the market in the mid to long term as private REITs
become more common.”  Mitsubishi Estate rose to the highest since March 19,
gaining 1.8 percent to 1,511 yen at the close of trading on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The purchases brought the total size of the fund to 62.2
billion yen from 51 billion yen, Arimori said.  Pension Demand  Private REITs own buildings and pay investors dividends
from rental income. They are not traded on exchanges so don’t
have daily price fluctuations like listed REITs. That matches
the need of pension funds seeking stable income.  The fund, which purchased a majority of the properties from
parent Mitsubishi Estate, is looking to buy retail real estate
in metropolitan areas to add to its portfolio, Arimori said.  Two decades of slumping stocks, one of the world’s lowest
bond yields and an aging population are prompting the nation’s
pensions to expand investments into alternative assets, such as
real estate. The 10-year Japanese government bond yield is 0.8
percent, the third lowest after  Switzerland  and  Hong Kong . The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average is less than a quarter of its 1989 peak.  Property companies are targeting Japan’s $3.36 trillion in
pension money, which is the world’s second-largest retirement
pool, after the U.S., according to  Towers Watson & Co.  Japan was
the only market among 12 that had a drop in pension assets
because of the poor returns on local stocks and bonds, according
to the report published in January.  Goldman, Mitsubishi  Japanese retirement funds have 31 percent of investments in
stocks, 59 percent in bonds, and only 6 percent in alternative
assets, according to Towers Watson. That compares with 25
percent in such assets in the U.S. and 24 percent in  Australia .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Mitsubishi Corp. are also
joining the competition amid signs of recovery in the nation’s
property prices.  The capitalization rate, a measure of investment yield, for
Japanese office buildings was 5.3 percent in July after
declining from 5.4 percent in April, according to Real Capital
Analytics Inc. A drop in the cap rate, which is a property’s net
income divided by the purchase price, usually signals an
increase in real estate prices.  “Our fund offers stability and risk diversification that
matches the investors’ needs as the number of properties in our
portfolio and tenants increase,” Arimori said.  Mitsubishi Estate  shares , which have gained 30 percent so
far this year, rose 0.9 percent to 1,498 yen as of 9:16 a.m. in
Tokyo. The 44-member Topix Real Estate Index has gained 36
percent in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  