-- J%J Pushed Risperdal With Golf, Popcorn, Witness Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-27T17:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/j-j-pushed-risperdal-with-golf-popcorn-witness-says.html
(Corrects Jones’s present employer in 27th paragraph of
story published Sept. 25.)  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  promoted illegal
marketing of its antipsychotic drug Risperdal by paying
physicians to give favorable speeches, subsidizing golf trips
and even having sales staff “butter up doctors” with bags of
“Risperdal Popcorn,” a former company manager testified.  J&J executives urged salespeople in 2003 to increase visits
to doctors who treat children as part of an effort to generate
more than $1 billion in annual sales of the drug,  Tone Jones , a
former J&J sales manager, said today in Pennsylvania state court
in Philadelphia.  “There were some discussions” about the instruction to
market Risperdal to child psychiatrists since the government
hadn’t given permission for such promotions, Jones told jurors.
“But it was a company directive, so we had to execute it
flawlessly in the field.”  The trial stems from a lawsuit by Andrew Bentley, a  Texas 
teenager who blames the medicine for causing him to grow female
breasts. Bentley’s case against the pharmaceutical manufacturer
is one of about 420 lawsuits claiming injury by Risperdal, the
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company said last month in a
regulatory filing.  J&J didn’t illegally market the drug and Risperdal didn’t
harm Bentley, Laura Smith, the company’s lawyer, said yesterday
in opening statements.  Wrongdoing Denied  J&J denied any wrongdoing.  “During the time it was actively promoted, our policy was
to promote  Risperdal  in its FDA indication,” Teresa Mueller, a
company spokeswoman said today. “We take our obligation to
ensure the safe and appropriate use of our medication very
seriously.”  The 17-year-old Houston resident claims he took Risperdal
to treat conditions related to  Asperger’s Syndrome  when federal
regulators hadn’t approved the drug for use by children,
according to court filings. His lawyers argued J&J illegally
marketed the pills to rack up more than $1 billion in sales.  The U.S. has been investigating Risperdal sales practices
since 2004, including allegations the company marketed the drug
for unapproved uses, J&J executives said in a regulatory filing.  Company officials reached an agreement with the U.S.
Justice Department to pay as much as $2.2 billion to resolve
probes of its sales of drugs, including Risperdal, according to
people familiar with the matter.  The company last month agreed to pay $181 million to
resolve claims by 36 states that it improperly marketed and
advertised Risperdal and  Invega , another antipsychotic.  Arkansas Case  In April, a judge in  Arkansas  ordered the drugmaker to pay
$1.2 billion in fines over Risperdal marketing. That verdict
came three months after J&J decided to end a trial in Texas over
the drug’s sales with a $158 million settlement. The Texas case
included claims that the company marketed the drug for children
while lacking approval by regulators for such use.  The drug’s global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007 and
declined after the company lost patent protection. Risperdal
generated $3.4 billion in sales in 2008, or 5.4 percent of J&J’s
revenue, according to company filings. Sales of the drug fell to
$527 million in 2010, according to earnings reports.  Jones, the ex-sales manager who testified today, is a
former quarterback for the Oklahoma State University Cowboys. He
told the jury that he became one of J&J’s top Risperdal
salespeople after he joined the company in 1998.  Jones quickly rose to become a district manager at the
Janssen unit who trained other members of the sales force about
Risperdal marketing techniques, he said.  Training Session  He testified that he was shown a set of slides entitled
“Child & Adolescent Physicians” at a 2003 training session
designed to pump up Risperdal’s sales.  The slides urged salespeople to focus Risperdal marketing
efforts on doctors who “provide treatment to patients who are
under the age of 18,” Jones testified.  U.S. Food and Drug Administration officials didn’t approve
Risperdal for use in children until 2006, Jones testified. It
was approved for  additional uses  in children the next year.  Under U.S. law, a doctor can prescribe a medicine for any
condition, as long as the FDA has found it to be safe and
effective against at least one ailment. Drug companies, however,
aren’t allowed to promote a drug for uses other than those
approved by the FDA.  Jones said another slide showed Janssen officials knew the
lack of FDA approval would make it more difficult to sell
Risperdal for use in children. The slide, shown to jurors, noted
the drug had “No Indication!!!!” for that use, he said.  Company Policy  J&J’s lawyers have told jurors that company officials
formulated a policy that called for salespeople to be fired if
they were found to have illegally marketed Risperdal.  Jones testified yesterday he didn’t know any member of
Janssen’s sales force that was fired for marketing Risperdal for
use by children, and added that he received bonuses specifically
tied to such sales.  In 2001, for example, Jones received more than $12,000 in
bonuses for Risperdal sales to doctors who treated children and
teens, according to company records shown to jurors.  To help sell the drug, J&J officials came up with red bags
of microwaveable  “Risperdal Popcorn,”  Jones said. Company
officials wanted salespeople to “butter up doctors with
Risperdal Popcorn,” he added.  Sales people also paid doctors as much as $1,500 a speech
to talk about Risperdal at dinners with their colleagues, Jones
said. The company subsidized golf trips for physicians who were
regular prescribers of the drug, he added.  Cross-Examination  During cross-examination, Jones acknowledged he was fired
from Janssen in 2009 after approving more than $2,000 in
expenses, including drinks and lap dances, racked up by a sales
rep at a Houston  strip club . He later sued Janssen over his
dismissal, Jones said.  The former quarterback said he now works as a sales manager
for Marlborough, Massachusetts-based Sunovion Pharmaceuticals
Inc., overseeing sales of  Latuda , an antipsychotic drug that
competes with Risperdal.  Smith, one of J&J’s lawyers, questioned whether Jones knew
who authored the slide that talked about buttering up doctors
with Risperdal Popcorn.  “I remember seeing it at a meeting,” the former sales
manager said. Jones added that he didn’t know who created the
slide.  Smith produced a copy of the slide posted to  Pharmalot.com ,
a blog that covers the health-care industry. The Internet site
is produced by  Ed Silverman , who formerly covered the
pharmaceutical industry for the Newark Star-Ledger newspaper.  Slide Source  J&J’s lawyer asked Jones whether the slide came from the
Pharmalot site. The former sales manager said he’d only seen it
as a Janssen document.  Silverman denied in an interview today that he was the
slide’s author, saying it was sent to him by an anonymous
contributor.  “I was the first to post the photo. Someone sent
it to me,” he said. “There is no way I made this up.”  Jones testified that  Alex Gorsky , J&J’s current chief
executive officer, was head of the Janssen unit while he worked
for the company. Risperdal sales rose to almost $2 billion
annually under Gorsky’s tenure, Jones added.  Bentley’s lawyers asked to have Gorsky ordered to testify
in the case. The executive responded that he’d be traveling in
 Asia  during the trial and had already testified via deposition.
A judge refused last week to order Gorsky to appear.  The case is A.B., a minor v. Janssen Pharmaceuticals, 00649,
Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas, January Term 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield. Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  