-- Turkish Army Morale at Risk Over Jailed Generals, PKK Fight
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-09-26T09:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/jailed-turkish-generals-put-army-morale-at-risk-amid-pkk-fight.html
The conviction of hundreds of
Turkish officers for plotting a coup has dealt a blow to the
army at a time when it’s facing an onslaught by Kurdish
militants and tensions on the Syrian border.  A court last week sentenced 324 serving and retired army
personnel, including top generals, to as much as 20 years in
prison for plotting to overthrow Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  in 2003. The defendants pleaded not guilty, saying some
of the evidence was faked, and have begun the process of
appealing the verdict.  The army, traditionally a supporter of Turkey’s secular
system, has seen its power and prestige eroded in the decade
since Erdogan’s Islamist-rooted party came to power. The latest
reverse may impair its ability to tackle mounting threats, as a
civil war rages in neighboring Syria and Kurdish fighters stage
their biggest offensive since the 1990s. In their latest attack,
a bomb killed six soldiers and one civilian yesterday in the
eastern city of Tunceli.  “Morale is at an all-time low, and morale is very
important for armies,” Nihat Ali Ozcan, an ex-officer and
security analyst at the Economic Policy Research Foundation of
 Turkey  in Ankara, said by telephone. “It would not be
surprising if junior officers started questioning some orders
from their superiors,” after watching the conviction of fellow
officers who simply obeyed orders from generals, he said.  Syrian Border  The general staff did not return calls seeking comment.
“We deeply feel and share the sorrow of our comrades in arms
and their families,” it said on its  website  today. The army
stressed its respect for the law and said it monitored the case
with “patience, fortitude, cool-headedness and common sense.”  Turkey has deployed anti-aircraft guns to the Syrian border
and warned it may retaliate after the downing of a Turkish jet
by Syrian forces in June. Erdogan has backed the rebels fighting
to oust President Bashar al-Assad and allowed their forces to
operate from Turkish territory.  Clashes with the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, which
has been fighting for autonomy in largely Kurdish southeast
Turkey since 1984, have left more than 700 people dead this
year. The army has stepped up operations aimed at eliminating
the group’s fighters in a mountainous area near the borders with
Iran and  Iraq , Hurriyet newspaper said on Sept. 24. The PKK is
classified as a terrorist group by the U.S. and European Union.  Kurdish Iraq  The fighting endangers Turkey’s growing trade with Middle
Eastern nations, on which the economy in the southeast of the
country depends, and hurt the balance of payments, said Tim Ash,
head of emerging market research at Standard Bank Group Ltd.  The government is seeking a one-year extension of a
parliamentary mandate authorizing it to send troops into
northern Iraq, where the PKK has its main bases, Deputy Prime
Minister Bulent Arinc said this week. Turkey has carried out
cross-border attacks in the past, most recently in February
2008, in response to intensified attacks.  Iran and Iraq ranked first and third among Turkey’s
 external markets  in the first seven months of the year, with
total sales of $14 billion or about a sixth of total exports.
Increased trade with the  Middle East  has helped soften the
impact of the slowdown in Turkey’s biggest export market, the
European Union.  “The military faces huge regional challenges, and the
morale of the military and its fighting capacity is important,”
Ash said by phone from  London  yesterday. “The political
administration has to establish what its priorities are.”  ‘Bigger Risks’  Ash argued in a report this week that political challenges,
pre-eminently the intensified conflict with the PKK, have
replaced macro-economic weaknesses such as the current account
deficit as the “bigger risks to Turkey.”  The country’s $800 billion economy is set to post  growth  of
close to the government’s 4 percent target this year, and more
than that in 2013, while the  current account gap  narrows to less
than 7 percent of economic output, from about 10 percent last
year, central bank Governor Erdem Basci said last week. Turkey’s
 benchmark stock index  has gained more than 30 percent this year,
 triple the gain  on the MSCI  Emerging Markets  benchmark.  The Kurdish conflict has left as many as 40,000 dead and
cost Turkey as much as $450 billion, according to a  report this
month  by the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group , which
specializes in mediation. It peaked in the first half of the
1990s and eased after the capture of PKK leader Abdullah Ocalan
in 1999.  Ocalan Talks  In the face of escalating violence, the government has
signaled the possibility of restarting talks with the PKK, which
broke down in 2010. Ocalan may be included in the negotiations,
Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin told NTV television last night.
The PKK has long insisted that Turkey should hold direct talks
with Ocalan, an option previously ruled out by authorities.  Generals jailed by the Istanbul court included Engin Alan,
best known for supervising Ocalan’s transfer to Turkey after he
was seized in Kenya. Alan was elected to parliament in 2010
while serving time in jail pending the verdict. He couldn’t take
up his seat.  The defendants denied charges of attempting to topple the
government by force by such measures as planning bomb attacks on
major mosques and other targets, to stir up chaos that would
open the way for a military coup.  ‘Designing Politics’  Ibrahim Firtina and Ozden Ornek, heads of the air force and
navy at the time, were given life sentences commuted to 20 years
because the plot failed. Other generals including former chief
of staff Ilker Basbug are in jail pending trial on separate
coup-plot charges.  The government has backed the investigations. “We want our
army to be the best professional army, and not involved in
designing politics,” Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay told
Kanal 7 television on Sept. 23.  Critics accuse the government of score-settling with the
secular military, which toppled three governments since 1960 and
pressured the country’s first Islamist prime minister out of
office in 1997. “They have tried for so long to finish the
Armed Forces, and today they struck the final nail in its
coffin,” Hurriyet quoted Tolga Ornek, son of the imprisoned
navy chief, as saying after the verdict.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  