-- Jain Says Investors Split on Deutsche Bank Capital, Applaud Plan
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-09-25T19:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/jain-says-investors-split-on-deutsche-bank-capital-applaud-plan.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  investors are
divided over how  Germany ’s biggest bank should raise capital,
with some shareholders favoring its plans to avoid a share sale,
said co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain.  “I’m getting two responses,” Jain said today at a
conference hosted by  Bank of America Corp.  in  London . Jain said
he met with investors since unveiling the firm’s strategy on
Sept. 11 and that those who “have been with us” told Deutsche
Bank “without exception that they applaud management’s
commitment to grow this capital organically.”  Deutsche Bank, based in Frankfurt, accelerated plans this
month to cut assets deemed among its riskiest under rules
devised to prevent a repeat of the bank rescues that followed
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Jain has said
that while capital concerns have had an effect on the stock,
tapping shareholders would be “irresponsible” without pursuing
other options first.  The desire of share-sale proponents “to get us to raise
capital comes principally from investors who would like to
invest at a lower price, which we understand as well,” Jain
said. Shareholders who oppose a stock sale “think our strategy
is realistic,” he said.  The bank plans to boost core tier 1 capital to at least 8
percent of assets weighted by risk under full Basel III rules by
the end of March 2013, and to more than 10 percent two years
later, Jain and co-CEO Juergen Fitschen said Sept. 11 in
Frankfurt. Deutsche Bank’s biggest rivals are forecasting they
will reach similar levels months or years sooner.  ‘Funding Level’  Deutsche Bank has a “very strong funding level and funding
diversification,” so the bank can have lower  capital ratios 
than some peers, Jain said at the conference.  Deutsche Bank may take a higher proportion of the 500
million euros ($646 million) in costs tied to strengthening its
capital in the third quarter than the firm anticipated, Jain
said. He reiterated a statement he made this month that revenues
in the three months through September were “solid” and matched
the bank’s expectations.  Separately, Jain called on investors to demand banks follow
Deutsche Bank’s plans in changing their compensation policy. The
bank is targeting an after-tax return on equity, or ROE, of at
least 12 percent by 2015 as management overhauls the firm’s
compensation system and reduces headcount and costs.  “We have taken a bigger first step than most of our
competitors,” he said. “Is there a risk that our competition
doesn’t follow suit? Only if you are willing to accept low ROEs
with unchanged compensation practices elsewhere.”  The bank said Sept. 11 that it will increase the vesting
period for deferred bonuses for about 150 members of senior
management to five years from three. The company will also
appoint an external panel to review compensation structures,
whose findings will influence pay for this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  