-- James Murdoch Gets Almost 90,000 Pounds as BSkyB Director
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-09-25T08:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/james-murdoch-gets-almost-90-000-pounds-as-bskyb-director.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY) ’s director  James Murdoch , who stepped down as chairman in
April amid a phone-hacking scandal, received a salary of 89,417
pounds ($145,000) from the pay-TV operator for the 12 months
through June.  Murdoch, who is also deputy chief operating officer of
BSkyB’s biggest shareholder News Corp., is still a director of
the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator. His remuneration increased
0.7 percent from a year earlier, according to the company’s
annual report published today.  The renumeration of BSkyB Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Darroch rose 7 percent to 2.98 million pounds, including pension
contributions, while Chief Financial Officer Andrew Griffith’s
emoluments climbed 6.8 percent to 1.52 million pounds.  James Murdoch once ran BSkyB and built it into one of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s most profitable businesses. He stepped down as chairman
amid a scandal at News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit which
involved journalists illegally listening to voice mail messages
of politicians and celebrities and prompted the New York-based
company to drop its 7.8 billion-pound bid for the 61 percent of
BSkyB it doesn’t own following opposition from lawmakers.  Board Changes  BSkyB is replacing some independent board members as the
company is no longer involved in a bidding process. Two board
members were replaced in November and another in June. Another
two, Jacques Nasser and Richard Wilson, will retire from the
board in the next year, the company said today.  The company’s remuneration committee decided not to
increase the base salaries of Darroch and Griffith, according to
the statement.  European investors this year pushed back against raises and
bonuses for some executives, protesting against what they saw as
inappropriately high pay levels. WPP Plc investors in June voted
against the remuneration packages of directors, including CEO
 Martin Sorrell .  Andrew Moss  stepped down as Aviva Plc CEO
shortly after more than 50 percent of shareholders voted against
his proposed pay raise.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  