-- Japan LDP Votes for New Leader Before Election Fight With Noda
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-09-25T23:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/japan-ldp-votes-for-new-leader-before-election-fight-with-noda.html
Japan ’s main opposition party
chooses a new leader today after a campaign that stressed the
need to overcome deflation and take a harder line against  China .  Polls show the race, which comes ahead of national
elections Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda must call by August,
will be closely contested by former defense chief Shigeru Ishiba,  Nobuteru Ishihara  and former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
Ishiba’s strong regional support may not be enough to secure a
first-ballot majority, forcing him into a runoff, the Asahi
newspaper said on Sept. 24, citing its survey of party members
and lawmakers.  “The fight is between Ishiba and Abe,” said  Jeff
Kingston , head of Asian studies at the Tokyo campus of  Temple
University . “The LDP is trying to figure out strategically
which makes more sense.”  Polls indicate the party may win the next parliamentary
elections, increasing the chances its leader will become Japan’s
seventh prime minister since 2006. The LDP faces pressure from
Noda to help pass legislation funding this year’s budget or
imperil an economic recovery threatened by falling exports and
the world’s largest debt.  Former foreign minister Nobutaka Machimura and ex-defense
chief Yoshimasa Hayashi are also running in the LDP race to
replace Sadakazu Tanigaki.  All of the candidates except Hayashi have said they favor
building on islands at the heart of an escalating territorial
dispute with China. The vice foreign ministers from both
countries failed yesterday in Beijing to ease tensions prompted
by Japan’s decision this month to buy the islands, known as
Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese.  Noda has no construction plans for the islands and has
called for calm in both countries.  Election Pledge  The LDP agreed to support legislation doubling the five
percent sales tax to cope with Japan’s debt in exchange for
Noda’s promise to call elections “soon.” The prime minister,
who was re-elected head of the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan
on Sept. 21, has yet to say when that might be.  A Yomiuri newspaper poll published Sept. 18 showed 31
percent of respondents planned to vote for the LDP in the
proportional representation section of the next election,
compared with 14 percent for Noda’s DPJ and 16 percent for a new
party formed by Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  