-- Joy Global Seen as Deal Target With Weir for GE Mining
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-09-25T20:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/joy-global-seen-as-deal-target-with-weir-for-ge-mining.html
General Electric Co.’s plans to
build its mining-equipment division through acquisitions means
companies from  Joy Global  Inc. to Weir Group Plc are now
takeover candidates.  Joy Global, a maker of underground mining equipment with an
operating margin that’s double the median among similar-sized
machinery companies, is a logical choice, William Blair & Co.
said. To Oriel Securities Ltd.,  GE (GE)  will probably be drawn to
Weir. The largest provider of pumps to miners is projected to
increase sales faster than the industry median through 2014,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  GE plans to bulk up through acquisitions to meet a goal of
more than doubling annual mining revenue to $5 billion within a
few years, the chief executive officer of GE Transportation said
in an interview last week. That would follow the pattern GE set
in the oil-and-gas industry with the purchases of Dresser Inc.
and a John Wood Group Plc unit. GE’s interest comes after buyers
announced $3.78 billion in deals this year for construction- and
mining-machinery companies, triple the amount during the same
period in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It looks to me to be much cheaper and much more
intelligent for GE to consider buying rather than building when
it comes to this,”  Michael Holland , chairman of New York-based
Holland & Co., which oversees more than $4 billion including GE
shares, said in a telephone interview. “Joy looks to me to be a
great representative of the group and kind of a leader,” he
said. “It’s big enough that it would have an impact.”  ‘Quick Benefits’  “The GE Mining business believes that we can get good
value out of smaller, focused acquisitions that allow us to
quickly and relatively easily add technology, GE expertise, and
geographical reach,” GE Mining CEO Geoff Knox said in a
statement. “These can yield strong, quicker returns on a
relatively small investment. However, we will continue to look
at larger acquisitions that may bring similar quick benefits
within a larger enterprise.”  GE announced the new division, called GE Mining and based
in  Brisbane ,  Australia , yesterday at the MINExpo conference in
 Las Vegas . The company already offers products and services to
miners, including water desalination systems and electrical
turbines derived from  jet engines , of which GE Aviation is the
largest manufacturer.  GE had about $2 billion in mining-related sales in 2011 and
plans to boost that to $5 billion in a few years with the help
of acquisitions, said Lorenzo Simonelli, the CEO of GE
Transportation, which oversees the mining unit. It has already
done deals to expand the mining business, announcing
transactions in May for Industrea Ltd. and Fairchild
International Inc.  ‘Good Time’  “It is a good time to be looking at acquisitions in a
value sense,” Knox said in a phone interview. “We have to be
targeted in buying into spaces that leverage what we already do.
We want to use our current knowledge and add it to the product
line we’re acquiring and make it smarter and more appealing.”  GE expanded its oil-and-gas division, which the company
says will generate $15 billion in sales this year, through
 takeovers . Those include Dresser, an oil-field equipment maker,
for $3 billion in October 2010 and the well-support division of
John Wood Group four months later for about $2.8 billion.  Joy Global, a Milwaukee-based maker of everything from
crushing equipment to drills and electric shovels for mining
coal, copper and minerals, looks “increasingly likely” as an
acquisition target for GE, according to Larry  De Maria , a New
York-based analyst at William Blair.  ‘Definitive Scale’  “Joy would provide GE with definitive scale in a large
aftermarket business, as well as some synergies in mine
electrification,” he said in a phone interview.  With $4.4 billion in revenue last year, Joy Global would
help GE “quickly” reach its sales goal for the new mining
division, De Maria said. Joy Global earned about 21.2 cents of
operating profit for every dollar of sales in the past 12
months, an operating margin double the median of 10.6 percent
for machinery companies valued between $1 billion and $10
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The $6.4 billion company  trades  for 8.8 times trailing 12-
month earnings, a lower valuation than 91 percent of the group,
the data show.  “GE can go out and borrow in the marketplace at
ridiculously low rates, then turn around and buy a company at
this kind of valuation,” Holland said. “It makes sense.”  Telephone and e-mail messages left for Sandy McKenzie, a
Joy Global spokeswoman, weren’t returned.  Mining, Oil  Another possibility is  Weir (WEIR) , which GE might find appealing
because the 3.7 billion pound ($6 billion) company sells
equipment to both the mining and oil industries, according to
analysts from Oriel Securities and Investec Ltd.  While Weir is the largest provider of hydraulic fracturing
equipment, used to extract oil and gas, it also manufactures
pumps that handle mine slurry -- waste that contains metals and
sediment. More than half of the company’s revenue last year came
from its minerals division, while the oil-and-gas business
accounted for a third, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “All of what Weir does is applicable to GE,” Chris Dyett,
a London-based analyst for Investec, said in a phone interview.
“It’s definitely a possibility that GE would look at a name
like this.”  Weir’s sales are  projected  to climb 26 percent from 2011 to
2014, versus the median rate of 20 percent among peers,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
shares trade for 12.1 times earnings, less than the industry
average of about 20.5, the data show.  ‘Undervalued Assets’  “Weir has attractive and undervalued assets in these two
growth industries,” Harry Philips, a London-based analyst for
Oriel, wrote in a note to clients yesterday. “Weir has been
seen as a possible bid target of GE for its oil and gas assets,
and now mining can be added to the potential attractions.”  Today, shares of Weir rose 4 percent to 1,811 pence for the
biggest increase in the FTSE 100 Index. Joy Global fell 5.5
percent to $56.88, and GE slipped 0.2 percent to $22.31.  Phone messages left for Glasgow, Scotland-based Weir
weren’t returned.  Boart Longyear Ltd. (BLY) , the largest provider of mineral-
drilling services, is another potential target for GE, said
Achur Iskounen, managing partner of Iskounen & Co. The shares
fell 31 percent through yesterday since the South Jordan, Utah-
based corporation cut its 2012 earnings  forecast  on Aug. 30.  ‘Unduly Punished’  The stock trades for 4.2 times profit, the third-lowest
valuation among mining services companies listed in Australia,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. At A$754 million ($786
million), it’s a smaller target than Joy Global and Weir.  “The equity market has unduly punished their equity
valuation,” said Iskounen, whose approximately $10 million fund
counts Boart Longyear as its biggest holding. “The global
footprint is such that the valuation pays for itself. I think
this would make a really compelling acquisition target.”  “I am not aware of any conversations or of being
approached by GE” about a possible takeover, Monika Portman, a
spokeswoman for Boart Longyear, said in an e-mail.  Boart Longyear shares rose 2.1 percent to A$1.67 today, the
highest price in almost a month.  Joy Global and Weir are bigger than the $1 billion to $3
billion range GE CEO  Jeffrey Immelt  gave for acquisitions this
year. “Don’t look for any big deals in 2012,” Immelt wrote in
his annual letter to shareholders, released in March.  Less Spending  “The conclusion most people seem to be jumping to is Joy
Global, but GE has said its sweet-spot acquisition size” is
less than that stock’s market value,  Shannon O’Callaghan , a New
York-based analyst with Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a phone
interview. “What we’ll probably see GE do are small-to-medium
bolt-ons.”  Mining companies are reducing  capital expenditures ,
presenting a potential headwind to GE Mining and the rest of the
equipment industry. Worldwide spending will drop as much as 14
percent through 2014 from a peak of $136 billion this year,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a Sept. 20 report.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company,
delayed about $68 billion of projects last month after second-
half profit fell 58 percent.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ,
Australia’s third-biggest iron-ore producer, cut its full-year
spending forecast on Sept. 4 by 26 percent to $4.6 billion.  The reductions are already hurting suppliers. Yesterday,
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the biggest construction and mining equipment
maker, cut its forecast for 2015 earnings. Last month, Joy
Global lowered its full-year profit and sales forecasts.  Big Deal  “The business is in a cyclical downturn in mining, but GE
still likes the space and they want to try to fill in their
existing capabilities,” O’Callaghan said.  GE should do a big deal, instead of piecing together a unit
with smaller acquisitions, Jeffrey Sprague, an analyst and co-
founder of Vertical Research Partners Inc. in  New York , said in
a phone interview.  “They could certainly buy a bunch of companies and
increase their sales footprint, but it seems like it would still
just be a collection of random stuff without it being a really
strong franchise,” Sprague said. “I don’t think they’re going
to buy Joy based on what they’re saying and what their MO seems
to be, but if they really want to be big in mining, they
probably should.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  