-- Costco Workers Win Class Certification for Bias Case
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-09-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/judge-certifies-costco-sex-discrimination-case-as-class-action.html
Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  workers who
sued the retailer for gender bias will be able to proceed with
their claims as a group.  U.S. District Judge Edward Chen in  San Francisco  certified
a class, or group, of plaintiffs, seeking monetary relief that
includes several hundred women employed since 2002 who have been
subject to the Issaquah, Washington-based company’s system for
promotion to management positions.  Costco “offers numerous competing explanations for the
observed gender disparity in promotions,” Chen said in
yesterday’s ruling. “None of these explanations undermine the
companywide nature of the challenged policies and their
disparate effects.”  Costco, the  biggest  U.S. warehouse-club chain, was sued in
2004 for allegedly limiting promotions of female employees to
assistant general manager and general manager by failing to post
job openings. The company denies the claims.  The ruling injects new life into the lawsuit after Costco
won a ruling last year voiding another judge’s decision to
expand the complaint, originally filed by three women, to
include hundreds.  “We established that there was a set of company policies
set at the corporate level and that senior management was
involved in the decisions,” Jocelyn Larkin, an attorney for the
Costco workers, said in a phone interview.  Bob Nelson, a spokesman for Costco, didn’t immediately
return a phone message seeking comment on the ruling.  Wal-Mart Ruling  A federal appeals court in San Francisco ruled last year
that lawyers for the Costco workers had to follow standards set
by the U.S. Supreme Court in a June 2011 decision throwing out a
gender-bias lawsuit against  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  involving
potential claims for more than 1 million women. That case is
known as Dukes v Wal-Mart.  Lawyers for Costco workers went back to the trial court
with a new proposal to limit the proposed class of employees to
two management level positions -- assistant general manager and
general manager, according to Chen’s ruling.  They also targeted specific employment practices
implemented companywide under the influence and control of top
management at Costco, including a “tap-on-the shoulder
appointment process” without applications or interviews, and a
mandated lack of posting for open positions, Chen said.  Management’s Instructions  “Unlike in Dukes, in which Wal-Mart permits store managers
to apply their own subjective criteria when selecting
candidates, here the criteria plaintiffs allege to be subjective
and unvalidated derive from  top management ’s own instruction,”
Chen said.  Chen set a tentative trial schedule. In the first stage, a
jury would decide whether Costco discriminated against women.
Chen then would decide whether Costco’s practices had an adverse
impact on the group and if he should issue an injunction against
the company.  Depending on the outcome, individual hearings on back pay
and compensatory damages would be held and punitive damages
would be determined.  The case is Ellis v. Costco, 07-15838,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  