-- Juncker Says He Doesn’t Understand Stress Test on Euro Area
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2012-09-25T12:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/juncker-says-euro-more-stable-than-dollar-yen-on-exchange-rate.html
Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said he’s
baffled by the “ stress test ” placed on the region amid its
continuing fiscal crisis.  “We do think from time to time that we are submitted to a
stress test by those who don’t want the European Union to appear
like a leading monetary power in the world,” Juncker said in an
interview with English-language Russian state broadcaster RT
television. “We don’t understand what is happening.”  Juncker said the euro area has better economic fundamentals
that the U.S.,  Japan  and the U.K. The single currency is more
stable than the dollar and the yen “as far as the  exchange rate 
is concerned,” he told RT, according to excerpts distributed by
e-mail today.  The euro-area economy, dragged down by a debt crisis now in
its third year, will slip into a recession with a 0.2 percent
contraction in the third quarter, according to the median
estimate of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The euro
has lost 4.2 percent against the dollar in the last 12 months.  Juncker meets with Russian President  Vladimir Putin  in
Moscow today before traveling to Tambov, about 480 kilometers
(298 miles) southeast of the capital, tomorrow and Tatarstan,
home of oil producer OAO Tatneft, on Sept. 27.  The EU, and especially the euro area, needs to maintain its
strategic partnership with Russia, and Russia would suffer if
the euro were to tumble, Juncker said in the interview.  Russia won’t reduce the euro’s share in its reserves from
about 40 percent, Putin said on July 23. “We aren’t changing
anything,” he said. “We believe in the fundamental abilities
of the European economy.”  Juncker’s visit comes as the EU conducts an antitrust probe
into OAO Gazprom’s long-term gas supply contracts in central and
eastern  Europe . Putin earlier this month signed a decree giving
the government the right to protect its natural gas-export
monopoly from the investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  