-- Kieren Perkins, Harvard MBA Tim Ford Join Australian Swim Review
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-25T04:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/kieren-perkins-harvard-mba-tim-ford-join-australian-swim-review.html
Former Olympic champions Kieren Perkins and Petria Thomas will help conduct a review of elite
swimming in Australia following the country’s failure to win an
individual gold medal for the first time in 36 years at the
 London  Games.  Tim Ford, a graduate of  Harvard University  and  Harvard
Business School  and a former Commonwealth Games swimmer, and
Australian Institute of Sport Director Matt Favier are the other
members of the panel, which will be chaired by former Australian
Sports Minister  Warwick Smith , the Australian Sports Commission
said today in a  statement .  The review will examine all aspects of Australia’s high-
performance swimming programs including governance and
administration. The culture of the national team and the impact
of social media on athlete preparations will also be considered,
the Canberra-based commission said.  “Procedures will be put in place by the review panel to
ensure that stakeholders’ views can be submitted confidentially
to enable the panel members to receive frank and open input,”
the commission said.  The Australian swim team returned from London with one gold,
six silver and three bronze medals. The 400-meter women’s
freestyle relay team took the only gold as the nation that
produced former Olympic champions Dawn Fraser and  Ian Thorpe 
failed to secure an individual title in the pool for the first
time since the 1976 Montreal games.  Disciplinary issues affected the team’s unity in London and
some swimmers were pursuing their own goals rather than those of
the squad,  the Australian newspaper reported Sept. 12 , citing
people close to the team it didn’t identify. Men’s 400-meter
relay swimmer Tommaso D’Orsogna said in a Sept. 13 interview
with Australia’s  Ten Network (TEN)  that some swimmers behaved more
like schoolboys than Olympians at a pre-games camp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  