-- Knee Replacements Double as Aging Patients Stay Active
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-09-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/knee-replacements-double-as-aging-patients-stay-active.html
Knee replacement surgeries have
more than doubled over the past two decades in the U.S. as older
Americans strive to stay active later in life, a study found.  Total knee replacement procedures rose 162 percent from
1991 to 2010 while the number of procedures to repair a
previously implanted artificial knee joint, called revision,
jumped 106 percent, according to research released in the
 Journal of the American Medical Association .  About 600,000  total knee replacement procedures , done to
relieve symptoms of severe knee arthritis, are performed each
year in the U.S. costing about $9 billion annually, according to
the research. About 60 percent of those procedures are paid for
by Medicare, the federal government health program for the
elderly and disabled, said Peter Cram, the lead study author.
The study suggests the success of the surgery may need to be
weighed against the increasing costs, he said.  “The growth in knee replacements encapsulates the
challenges of controlling spending in the Medicare program,”
 Cram , associate professor of general internal medicine at the
University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine in Iowa City, said
in a Sept. 24 phone interview. “It is an effective surgery.”  The public-health issue, Cram said, is that “a procedure
that is great in small numbers is financially devastating to the
Medicare program and the federal government in the long term. As
a patient you want that knee replacement, but from a budgetary
standpoint this starts to add up to real dollars.”  Patient Caseload  Researchers in the study published yesterday looked at 3.27
million Medicare patients who underwent total knee replacement
procedures and 318,563 who had revision surgery from 1991, the
first year data were available, to 2010. The number of annual
knee replacements rose to 243,802 in 2010, or 62.1 procedures
per 10,000 Medicare enrollees, from 93,230 in 1991, or 31.2
procedures per 10,000 Medicare enrollees.  More people may be seeking the surgery because it is
effective at relieving pain and older Americans are staying more
active later in life, Cram said.  Fay Lyons, a 69-year-old retiree in Lakewood,  New Jersey ,
said she had double knee replacement surgery about a month ago.
She hoped it would alleviate the grinding pain her arthritis had
caused for the last eight to 10 years, she said.  “I couldn’t do anything except swing a golf club,” she
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “I couldn’t walk for
any length of time. I couldn’t do anything because it hurt every
step I took.”  Friend’s Advice  A good friend who had both his knees successfully replaced
recommended his doctor and persuaded Lyons to get the procedure
as well, she said. She stayed in the hospital for three days,
then lived at a rehabilitation center for a week where she
received therapy every day. She now sees a physical therapist
three times a week. Medicare and supplementary insurance from
AARP have helped with costs, Lyons said.  “I wasn’t worried about the cost,” she said. “I was
worried about the pain.”  While recovery hurts, Lyons said she can walk farther now
and the discomfort declines daily. “The therapy is very
painful, but worth it,” she said.  The first knee replacement surgery was performed in 1968,
according to the  American Academy  of Orthopaedic Surgeons.
Improvements in implants and surgical techniques have increased
the effectiveness of the procedure.  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH) , based in Warsaw,  Indiana ,  Stryker
Corp. (SYK)  of Kalamazoo,  Michigan , and  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s largest health-care
products company, are among the companies that produce knee
implants.  Obesity’s Effects  Increasing rates of obesity in the U.S., where two-thirds
of Americans are considered overweight or obese, may also be
contributing to the rise in knee replacements, Cram said. People
who are obese are predisposed to arthritis, he said.  The study also showed that the number of people needing a
follow-up knee replacement increased to 19,871 from 9,650 during
the two decades while the time patients stayed in the hospital
post-surgery dropped to 3.5 days from 7.9 days. About 10 percent
of people who have knee replacement surgery may go on to need a
revision procedure, Cram said.  Sending people home sooner after surgery may not save money
over time if people must be readmitted for another procedure
because of complications, he said.  By 2030, the demand for knee replacements may be as high as
3.48 million a year in the U.S., said Joseph Zuckerman, chairman
of the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at  New York  University
Langone Medical Center, in an editorial accompanying today’s
study. Having hospitals managing all aspects of a patient’s care
from pre-surgical doctor visits to after care once a patient
returns home may help reduce the costs, he said.  “People want to be active,” Zuckerman said in a Sept. 24
telephone interview. “As you get older, you’re no longer
accepting of a sedentary lifestyle or a quality of life that’s
diminished.”  The research includes only Medicare patients and not those
younger than 65 who may have had the surgery.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  