-- Korea Bonds Advance as Investors Await Economy Data; Won Gains
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-09-25T01:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/korea-bonds-advance-as-investors-await-economy-data-won-gains.html
South Korea’s government bonds
advanced before data that’s forecast to signal growth in Asia’s
fourth-biggest economy is losing steam. The won rose.  An official report due Sept. 28 will show industrial  output 
declined for a third month in August, while trade data scheduled
Oct. 1 will show  exports  shrank 5.7 percent this month,
according to separate Bloomberg surveys.  Consumer confidence 
held at a 7-month low, the cental bank said today. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande 
disagreed over the weekend on a timetable to introduce joint
oversight of the region’s banking sector.  “Bonds are being supported due to European issues, and the
biggest focus for the market will be the factory output data,”
said Lee Seung Hoon, a Seoul-based fixed-income analyst at
Samsung Futures Inc. “Until the data is out, there’s not enough
momentum to support bonds beyond the current level.”  The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due June
2015 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.80
percent as of 9:27 a.m. in  Seoul , Korea Exchange Inc. prices
show. The one-year interest-rate swap slid one basis point to
2.88 percent. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index dropped as overseas funds  sold 
more of the nation’ shares than they bought for a second day.  South Korea’s government plans to cut its fiscal deficit
next year to the smallest in six years, the Ministry of Strategy
and Finance said in its budget proposal for 2013 released today.  The won advanced 0.2 percent to 1,118.48 per dollar,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, fell two basis points to 6.43 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  