-- Najib May Extend Handouts as Malaysia Vote Nears: Southeast Asia
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   C y n t h i a   L i
-- 2012-09-26T04:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/najib-may-extend-handouts-as-malaysia-vote-nears-southeast-asia.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak’s efforts to build support ahead of national elections may
spur more handouts to the poor and bonuses for civil servants,
limiting progress in reducing the 2013  budget deficit .  The country will probably post a  shortfall  of 4.3 percent
of gross domestic product for next year, according to the median
estimate of eight economists in a Bloomberg News survey before
Najib presents spending plans on Sept. 28. The deficit would
exceed 4 percent for a sixth year after a 4.7 percent gap
projected by the government for 2012.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have recommended
tighter public finances after Najib, 59, raised state salaries,
handed cash to low-income households and unveiled rail and road
projects to spur growth. The ruling coalition won re-election in
2008 by the smallest margin since 1957, and its five-decade grip
on power will again be tested in a vote due by early 2013.  “This will likely be another populist budget and the last
spending spree before elections are called,” said Chua Hak Bin,
an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Singapore , who
has covered  Malaysia  for more than a decade. “Measures to
seriously tackle the fiscal deficit and rising public debt will
likely be absent. Fiscal reforms will have to come next year,
after the general election.”  While the  benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has
fallen about 2 percent from its record close on Sept. 4,
retailers such as Aeon Co. (M) Bhd. and Padini Holdings Bhd. may
benefit from measures to boost incomes, according to Maybank
Investment Bank Bhd.  Record Budget  Malaysia’s 2013 budget will be 259 billion ringgit ($84
billion), bigger than last year’s record 232.8 billion ringgit,
Citigroup Inc. estimates. The government, which joins
counterparts from  Thailand  to the  Philippines  in increasing
spending to protect their economies from the  European debt
crisis  and a faltering U.S. recovery, proposed in June to expand
the 2012 annual allocation by 13.4 billion ringgit.  The spending boost has helped support  Southeast Asia ’s
third-largest  economy  even as the global recovery faltered, with
expansion accelerating to 5.4 percent last quarter as
construction and consumption climbed. Stronger domestic demand,
particularly investment spending, is helping lift  tax revenue 
and prevent the fiscal deficit from worsening, Chua said.  The government will set a smaller deficit goal in next
year’s budget and seeks to reduce the shortfall to 3 percent of
GDP by 2015, Second Finance Minister Ahmad Husni Mohamad Hanadzlah said earlier this month.  Low Cost  “Spending can be front-loaded, to coincide with elections,
without harming the structural fiscal position,” said  Aninda Mitra , a Singapore-based economist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. “The Malaysian government’s low cost access
to local-currency finance, its net external creditor status and
recent reforms of its public-sector enterprises provide a
cushion against near-term fiscal risks.”  Over the “medium-term,” the rating implications of a
draw-down of the current-account surplus amid “a continuing
absence of structural fiscal reforms” is a concern, he said.  The cost to protect Malaysia’s sovereign debt from non-
payment has more than halved since last year’s budget. Five-year
credit default swaps fell to 93 from 213 on Oct. 3, 2011,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Najib may announce this week measures to make housing more
affordable and highlight large construction projects underway,
according to Citigroup. He may also repeat a one-off cash
handout of 500 ringgit to low-income families, a measure from
the 2012 budget, and give a half-month bonus for civil servants,
said Lee Heng Guie, chief economist at CIMB Investment Bank.  Political Bang  The government will probably delay implementing a goods and
services tax next year, United Overseas Bank Ltd. said.  “Expenditure will likely be reallocated to groups that
deliver the best political bang for the buck,” said Kit Wei Zheng, a Singapore-based economist at Citigroup. “With the
threat of credit rating downgrades, unless progress is made on
fiscal consolidation, the budget will have to walk a tight-rope
between populism and fiscal prudence.”  Shares of  Genting Malaysia Bhd. (GENM)  fell to the lowest in
almost a month to 3.39 ringgit as of 12:25 p.m. today after CIMB
analyst Lucius Chong said in a report on Sept. 21 that gaming
taxes may be raised in next year’s budget.  Share Sales  Still, Malaysia has withstood a global slump in initial
public offerings, hosting three of the world’s six largest IPOs
by companies this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Demand for shares from institutions outstripped supply when
Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. raised $3.3 billion in June
and IHH Healthcare Bhd. sold $2.1 billion of stock in  Kuala
Lumpur  and Singapore the following month.  The central bank kept the  benchmark interest rate  unchanged
for an eighth meeting this month, while inflation held at the
lowest rate in more than two years in August. Exports
unexpectedly fell in July as demand for Asian goods is damped by
 Europe ’s crisis and a growth slowdown in  China .  In the 2012 budget unveiled last year, Najib pledged to
raise civil servant salaries by as much as 13 percent,
distribute cash to low-income families and boost spending on
transportation amid speculation he might call an early election.  Even so, the prime minister’s ability to seek a fresh
mandate was subsequently undermined by an approval rating that
slipped to 65 percent in May from 69 percent in February after
police fired tear gas and arrested 512 people from a street
protest in April demanding cleaner and fairer elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 cli205@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  