-- Nevada Geothermal May Transfer Declining Power Plant to Lender
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-09-25T20:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/nevada-geothermal-may-transfer-declining-power-plant-to-lender.html
Nevada Geothermal Power Inc. (NGP) , the
renewable-energy developer that received a U.S. loan guarantee,
may transfer ownership of a Nevada power plant to a lender after
projecting the facility will produce less power than expected.  Output at the company’s Blue Mountain geothermal field is
projected to fall below 34 megawatts this year and will decline
to about 15 megawatts by 2020, Vancouver-based Nevada Geothermal
said today in a statement.  The declining capacity will reduce revenue from the plant
and make it difficult, if not impossible, for the company to
repay a mezzanine loan from EIG Global Energy Partners LLC,
according to Andrew Studley, Nevada Geothermal’s chief financial
officer.  “There are risks to the project,” he today by telephone.
“We’ve said publicly that the EIG loan, the mezzanine loan,
can’t be paid.”  The company is seeking to “resolve potential loan
issues,” according to the statement. “These discussions are
geared to facilitate transferring the Blue Mountain assets to
the mezzanine lender.”  Geothermal  power plants  produce electricity by tapping
underground pockets of steam or thermal fluid, which decline
over time.  Nevada Geothermal Power said in May 2011 the project may
not meet electricity-generation levels required under the terms
of the EIG loan, which had a balance of $88.4 million as of
March 31, according to a  filing .  The company also received a $98.5 million loan from John
Hancock Financial Services Inc. in 2010 to refinance and fund
expansion work at Blue Mountain. The financing was supported by
an 80 percent guarantee from the U.S. Energy Department, and
Studley said Nevada Geothermal is up to date on the payments.  NV Energy Inc. (NVE)  buys Blue Mountain’s power under a 20-year
contract.  Nevada Geothermal fell 50 percent to 1 Canadian cent at the
close in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  