-- Nigeria’s Naira Gains as Bond Buying Offsets Corporate Demand
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-09-25T12:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/nigeria-s-naira-gains-as-bond-buying-offsets-corporate-demand.html
Nigeria ’s naira rallied as inflows
from purchases of local debt offset any increase in corporate
demand for dollars.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer climbed 0.1
percent to 157.59 a dollar as of 12:48 p.m. on the  interbank
market  in Lagos. The naira has appreciated 3 percent this year,
the best performer in Africa, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nigeria’s seven-year borrowing costs dropped 324 basis
points to a record low at a monthly debt auction last week after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. said it may include the bonds in its
emerging-market index series on Oct. 1 over a three month phased
period.  “An important recent development in strengthening naira
sentiment was the decision by JP Morgan to include Nigerian
 government bonds  in its Emerging Market Government Bond Index,”
Ecobank Transnational Inc. analysts, led by Paul-Harry Aithnard
in Paris, wrote in a report today. “It will help increase
demand for naira as funds that track the index seek to buy
Nigerian  government securities  in order to maintain their
replication of the index.”  The yield on Nigeria’s 7 percent domestic bonds due June
2019 rose seven basis points to 12.61 percent, according to
yesterday’s data on the Financial Markets Dealers Association
website. Yields on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due
January 2021 were little changed at 4.78 percent today.  Inflows into bonds “should therefore offset any
depreciatory pressure arising from corporate demand,”
sustaining the naira below 158 per dollar, Celeste Fauconnier
and Nema Ramkhelawan-Bhana, strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today.  Ghana ’s cedi rose 0.2 percent to 1.9165 a dollar in Accra,
the capital.  Editors: Peter Branton, Ash Kumar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  