-- Nigeria Names Winning Bidders for Five State Power Plants
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-09-25T14:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/nigeria-names-winning-bidders-for-five-state-power-plants.html
Nigeria  named the preferred bidders
that offered more than $700 million for five state  power plants .  Transnational Corp. won with its $300 million bid for the 947-
megawatt Ughelli power station, Atedo Peterside, chairman of the
National Council of Privatization’s technical committee
announced today in Abuja, the capital.  China  Machinery
Engineering Corp. led a group of companies that pledged $201
million for the Sapele plant. Amperion Power Distribution Ltd.,
a group headed by  Forte Oil Plc (FO)  and China’s Shanghai Municipal
Electric Power Co., offered $132 million for the Geregu plant.  Mainstream Energy Solutions Ltd., led by Russia’s RusHydro
JSC, won the bid to manage the Kainji hydro plant with a $50.8
million offer. North-South Power Co. Ltd., a group led by China
Three Gorges Corp., got the Shiroro hydro power plant concession
with a $23.6 million offer, Peterside said.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer, is selling majority
stakes in power plants and letting private investors buy as much
as 70 percent of 11 distribution companies spun out of the
former state-owned utility as it seeks private investment to
curb power shortages.  All the winning bids are “subject to the approval” of the
National Council on Privatization headed by Vice President
 Namadi Sambo , Peterside said. Bidders have 15 days after the
final approval to post a bank guarantee for 15 percent of the
bid amount and pay 25 percent of their bid within another 15
days after the deal has been signed, he said.  The balance should be paid over six months or as agreed
with the privatization agency.  Julius Berger Nigeria Plc (JBERGER) , an affiliate of Bilfinger Berger
AG, was selected as the reserve bidder for the Sapele power
plant after offering $106.5 million, while Amperion Power was
also picked as the reserve bidder for the Ughelli power station
with a bid of $252 million, Peterside said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  