-- NII Bets $3 Billion on Turnaround Starting in Slim’s Turf
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-09-25T20:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/nii-bets-3-billion-on-turnaround-starting-in-slim-s-turf.html
NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , the Latin
American mobile-phone carrier whose shares have declined 64
percent this year, is anchoring its turnaround on a $3 billion
plan to compete better against the world’s richest person on his
home turf.  NII is set to announce today that it will begin service
tomorrow on its 3G, or third-generation, mobile-phone network in
 Mexico , giving smartphone users a new option in a market where
 Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB dominates. NII, which is based
in Reston,  Virginia , and operates under the Nextel brand, will
initially offer 3G plans in 34 cities, said Gustavo Cantu, vice
president of the company’s Mexican unit.  With the new network, NII can offer more advanced phones
and services such as faster video downloads to encourage
subscribers to spend more and keep them from switching to its
 bigger rival . NII, which carved out a niche in  Latin America  by
offering a walkie-talkie service to business clients, is seeking
to persuade investors it can reverse declines in Mexican
customer spending and loyalty.  “If they’re able to participate in the data market, they
should be able to grow revenue,” said Kevin Smithen, an analyst
at Macquarie Securities USA Inc. in  New York . “Expectations are
low on this name, so that’s a really important thing.”  NII, a former unit of  Nextel Communications Inc. (S) , won a
government auction of mobile-phone airwaves in 2010 to get the
capacity for the network, bidding $14.2 million. The company
will pay 18.3 billion pesos ($1.42 billion) over 20 years for
government licensing fees and has pledged to invest about $1.5
billion in the network over five years.  Faster Speeds  The new service will use a technology called HSPA+ that can
offer download speeds of as much as 21 megabits a second, Cantu
said yesterday in a phone interview. The network’s first phase
includes the largest metropolitan areas in the country, such as
Mexico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey, Puebla and Cancun.  The company will sell 3G phones and laptop cards. The
handsets will include those for the walkie-talkie service, known
as push-to-talk, with the ability to communicate with devices
using NII’s old network and its new one, Cantu said.  “There are a lot of users that we haven’t been able to
offer high-speed data to in the past,” he said. “We haven’t
had the technology and the range of services and devices that we
have now.”  Smallest Carrier  NII is the smallest of Mexico’s four mobile-phone carriers,
with about 4 percent of wireless subscribers.  America Movil ,
based in Mexico City, has 71 percent. Madrid-based  Telefonica
SA (TEF) , which has operated in Mexico for a decade, has 20 percent of
users. Grupo Iusacell SA, controlled by billionaire  Ricardo
Salinas  and broadcaster  Grupo Televisa SAB (TV) , has 5 percent.  Since NII hasn’t been able to offer a full range of
wireless services before, Mexico’s phone regulators consider the
company a new entrant in the market, which allowed it to get its
3G airwaves at a lower price than competitors in the 2010
auction. That doesn’t mean it represents a significant
competitive threat to America Movil, since its push-to-talk
service tends to attract a small segment of business users who
can afford higher prices, Smithen said.  An America Movil official, who asked not to be named under
company policy, declined to comment.  Mexico is NII’s second-biggest market behind  Brazil , with
3.8 million subscribers at the end of June. Mexican sales
dropped 7.8 percent in the first half of this year to $1.07
billion, while operating profit shrank 43 percent to $137
million as the company cut prices to hold on to users. The
average Mexican customer’s bill shrank 19 percent from a year
earlier to $39 a month in the three months ended June.  Lower Forecasts  NII  cut  its 2012 profit and sales forecasts in August after
missing analysts’ expectations for net income for the seventh
straight quarter. The company, which also operates in Argentina,
Peru and  Chile , has struggled with higher customer  turnover  as
users defect to competitors offering faster download speeds and
more popular handsets. Churn, a measure of turnover, rose to 2.3
percent last quarter from 1.71 percent a year earlier.  After hitting a nine-year low of $5.93 on Aug. 29, the
shares have rebounded, climbing 28 percent. The shares fell 3.2
percent to $7.61 at the close in New York. Chief Executive
Officer Steve Dussek buoyed investor optimism in the company’s
turnaround last week by  boosting  his stake by 12 percent to
almost 400,000 shares, including unvested, restricted stock.  Smooth Start  A smooth start to NII’s Mexican service would help reassure
investors after previous 3G network debuts in Peru and Chile
were plagued by outages and a lack of handset supply, said
 Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore. Shareholders will view the Mexico network’s
performance as an indicator of how NII will fare when it starts
offering 3G service in Brazil later this year, he said.  “The fact that this is coming on schedule, with the timing
they laid out since the beginning of the year, is positive,”
King, who advises  buying  the shares, said yesterday in a phone
interview. “It should give people confidence from a technology
standpoint that they’re on the right path.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  