-- Nokia Unveils Two Full-Touch Asha Phones to Tap Demand in Asia
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-09-25T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/nokia-unveils-two-full-touch-asha-phones-to-tap-demand-in-asia.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  added two touchscreen
phones to its Asha line of handsets to meet growing demand from
consumers in  Asia  and elsewhere who want devices with features
common on more expensive smartphones.  Nokia, which hasn’t made a profit in five quarters because
of slumping smartphone sales, said adding features such as a
faster Web browser and access to social networking sites to
basic phones will win over first-time users and increase the
chances of them buying more expensive phones in the future.  “People buying the more affordable smartphones are also
very aspirational,” Timo Toikkanen, Nokia’s head of mobile
phones, said in a telephone interview. “They have the same
ambitions that you see with a consumer from a very high-end
smartphone, valuing things like design.”  Unlike its smartphone division, Nokia’s basic-phone
business is profitable and unit sales are increasing. The Espoo,
Finland-based company lifted its share of the basic-phone market
to 35 percent last quarter, the highest in two years.  The Asha 308 and 309 are Nokia’s cheapest phones so far
that have a capacitive screen allowing a finger’s electrical
signal to control functions, similar to the company’s Lumia
smartphones that use  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows software.  SIM Cards  The Asha 308, which allows users to switch between two SIM
cards, and the Asha 309, which uses one SIM card and can connect
to Wi-Fi, will be priced at about $99. Both phones will start
shipping in the fourt quarter, Toikkanen said.  Nokia, which made almost one in five of the world’s mobile
phones in the second quarter, is second-only to rival  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  which sold 21.6 percent of the 419 million
devices, according to research firm Gartner Inc. Nokia’s cheaper
phones outsold its smartphones seven to one last quarter and, at
2.29 billion euros ($2.96 billion), brought in 49 percent more
revenue.  Both of the new Asha models will include the new version of
Nokia’s Xpress Internet browser, which it claims will cut data
use by 90 percent, helping consumers reduce their phone
expenses. Nokia will continue to invest in developing its Series
40 software that Asha uses and has no plans to use the Windows
Phone platform outside of its Lumia phones, Toikkanen said.  R&D Investments  “Nokia is putting a lot of time and R&D money into making
sure the Series 40 platform will give customers the best
experience possible,” Toikkanen said. “Our Lumia phones use
Microsoft’s Windows Phone software and with Nokia trying to
bring Lumia into lower price points, there are currently no
plans to mix Windows with Asha.”  Nokia also introduced two new services for Asha Touch
users. Nearby Web allows users to explore nearby places on a map
while the Nokia Life+ Web application gives information on
health, education and news in local languages.  Still, success in basic phones isn’t guaranteed, as  ZTE
Corp. (000063) , Huawei Technologies Co. and other manufacturers are
entering the cheaper market segments with phones using  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system. Samsung also pushes basic
touchscreen phones under the Star and Champ names.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  