-- Nomura Reorganizing Global Finance Units in Asia ex-Japan
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-09-25T03:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/nomura-reorganizing-global-finance-team-in-asia-outside-of-japan.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  is
reorganizing its global finance team in  Asia  outside of Japan,
according to an internal memo, as Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai pursues his overhaul of the country’s biggest brokerage.  Global finance units within the investment banking and
fixed-income divisions will reconfigure into two main streams:
debt origination including debt capital markets, private
placements, leveraged finance and private financing activities;
and risk solutions, according to the memo obtained by Bloomberg.  Less than two months into the job, Nagai is reshaping
Nomura by pledging to cut $1 billion of costs and make Asia the
center of its global operations. The Tokyo-based company began
eliminating about 30 percent of jobs at its European,  Middle
East  and African investment banking division last week,
according to a person briefed on the plans.  Jonathan Williams, a Singapore-based spokesman for Nomura,
confirmed the contents of the memo by phone today.  Mark Leahy, the head of debt syndicate and debt origination
for Asia excluding Japan, is leaving as part of the
reorganization, according to the document. Leahy, who is based
in  Singapore , confirmed his departure as part of the broader
staff cuts when contacted on his mobile phone yesterday and said
his last day will be the end of this week.  Leahy was previously head of debt syndication at Deutsche
Bank AG, a position he left in early 2009. Before joining
Nomura, Leahy co-founded and was a managing director of Arrive
Private Investments, a startup brokerage business within the
Arrive Wealth Management group in  Melbourne .  Debt Origination  Djamal Attamimi will take on the role of head of debt
origination for Asia ex- Japan , reporting to Daniel Mamadou, the
head of global finance for the region, according to the memo.  Shares of Nomura rose 0.7 percent to 289 yen at the lunch
break in  Tokyo . They have gained 12 percent since Nomura
unveiled the cost-reduction plans on Aug. 31. The  Nikkei 225
Stock Average (NKY)  climbed 0.3 percent in morning trading.  Nagai’s revamp follows a four-year struggle by his
predecessor Kenichi Watanabe to build a business overseas after
buying Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian units
in 2008. About 45 percent of the latest cost savings will come
from Europe, 21 percent from the Americas and 34 percent from
Asia and Japan, the company said this month.  While the firm is paring  investment banking  and equities
divisions, it plans to expand fixed-income operations. Nomura
will reassign people from other divisions to join the unit, two
people with direct knowledge of the matter this month.  Carol’s Role  Clayton Carol has been named head of debt capital markets
for Asia, reporting to Attamimi, according to the memo. Carol
will also assume a new role in the leadership of debt syndicate
in Asia outside of Japan, to be announced separately.  Chris Chan becomes head of risk solutions and treasury
services for Asia excluding Japan, and will report to Mamadou.
Andrew MacGonigal has been appointed head of debt origination
and solutions for Australia, also reporting to Mamadou.  Separately, Nomura hired Stuart Oakley as global head of
Asian non-deliverable forwards and head of foreign exchange cash
trading for Asia excluding Japan, according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Oakley, based in Singapore, will report globally to Jai Rajpal, global head of foreign exchange, and regionally to Rig Karkhanis, head of fixed income for Asia excluding Japan. Oakley
joins from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, where he was head
of Asia  emerging markets  foreign-exchange trading, also based in
Singapore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  