-- Notre Dame Cancels Michigan Football Series After ACC Move
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-09-25T21:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/notre-dame-cancels-football-series-with-michigan-after-acc-move.html
The football rivalry between the
 University of Michigan  and the  University of Notre Dame  will be
suspended after the Fighting Irish canceled games from 2015
through 2017.  The move comes two weeks after  Notre Dame  announced that it
was moving into the Atlantic Coast Conference for all league-
sponsored sports except football. The South Bend,  Indiana ,
school also agreed to play five games a year against ACC
opponents, limiting its flexibility in scheduling non-ACC teams.  Notre Dame took the action to avoid an automatic rollover
clause that adds a year to its contract with Michigan each time
a game is played, Senior Associate Athletics Director John Heisler said in an e-mailed statement.  “We needed to avoid the automatic addition of additional
games until we can get a better understanding of our available
inventory in those years, an understanding that will develop as
we implement our five-game scheduling commitment to the Atlantic
Coast Conference,” Heisler said.  Michigan  Athletic Director Dave Brandon said today in an e-
mailed statement that he was informed of the decision prior to
Notre Dame’s 13-6 victory over the Wolverines last weekend.  “We value our annual rivalry with Notre Dame but will have
to see what the future holds for any continuation of the
series,” Brandon said.  Michigan and Notre Dame have met 40 times since 1887,
including every year since 2002. The Wolverines are 23-16-1 over
the course of the rivalry, according to Michigan’s statement.  Notre Dame (4-0) is ranked No. 10 in the Associated Press
poll. The Wolverines (2-2) are unranked after opening the season
at No. 8.  The two teams will play again next September at Michigan
Stadium in  Ann Arbor  and in 2014 at Notre Dame Stadium. Both
schools agreed on a break during the 2018 and 2019 seasons,
according to the Wolverines release, and any games beyond that
are yet to be determined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  