-- Obama Agrees With Romney in Urging End to NFL-Referees Dispute
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-09-26T04:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/obama-says-nfl-needs-to-get-regular-referees-back-in-games.html
President Barack Obama and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  have found something to agree
upon: The  National Football League  should settle a dispute with
the union representing referees after a disputed ruling by
officials at the end of a game last night.  “I’ve been saying for months we’ve got to get our refs
back,” Obama said as he arrived at the White House yesterday
after speaking at the United Nations in New York.  “I’d sure like to see some experienced referees with NFL
experience come back onto the NFL playing fields,” Romney said
in an interview with CNN in Vandalia, Ohio.  A labor dispute between the NFL and the referees union has
resulted in substitutes officiating games. The calls made by the
replacements have generated complaints from players, coaches and
fans.  The  Seattle Seahawks  two night ago defeated the  Green Bay
Packers  on a last-minute play in which a pass by the Seahawks
quarterback was grabbed in the end zone by a Packers defender
and the Seattle receiver reached in to wrestle the ball from him
as both players fell to the ground.  One official ruled it a touchdown for the Seahawks, while a
second standing behind the play gave the signal for a touchback
because of an interception. The ruling on the field was
determined to be a touchdown. An interference penalty before the
catch against the Seahawks receiver wasn’t flagged. Seattle won
the game 14-12.  Obama said the ruling was “terrible,” and Romney said
with a laugh that vice-presidential running mate  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin congressman and Green Bay fan, was “very angry” and
thought the Packers won “and the referees took it away from
them.”  The NFL stood by the call.  “It’s very distressing for every American football fan,”
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  