-- Obama-Brown Bipartisan Ties Touted in Romney Aide’s Ads
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-09-25T00:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/obama-brown-bipartisan-ties-touted-in-romney-aide-s-ads.html
One of Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney ’s senior strategists also guides the
campaign of an outspoken critic within the party, Massachusetts
Senator  Scott Brown .  Eric Fehrnstrom crafts advertisements that show Brown and
President  Barack Obama  in an amiable, bipartisan relationship.
In commercials Fehrnstrom helped develop for Romney, Obama is
portrayed as an uncooperative Democratic partisan.  Veteran ad-makers and Republican consultants say advising
these two high-wattage clients at the same time is challenging
to the point of becoming untenable.  “It certainly has the potential to become controversial,”
said Rob Gray, a Republican strategist based in Boston who
worked with Fehrnstrom on Romney’s successful Massachusetts
gubernatorial campaign in 2002.  Fehrnstrom, Beth Myers and Peter Flaherty -- two more
Romney aides -- manage the Shawmut Group, a public affairs and
campaign consulting firm based in Boston. Brown has paid the
Shawmut Group at least $260,000 this election cycle, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg from Federal Election Commission
records.  The Romney campaign also pays the three through its media
contractor, American Rambler Productions LLC. American Rambler
has received more than $85 million to develop ads and purchase
airtime for them, FEC records show.  Fehrnstrom and the Brown campaign didn’t respond to e-mail
and calls for comment. Andrea Saul, Romney’s spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  Democratic State  To retain his seat in a state now led by a Democratic
governor and legislature and where Romney’s approval ratings are
upside down, Brown must win over Obama backers and independents.
He is running against Democrat  Elizabeth Warren , a Harvard
University professor and architect of the new Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.  “‘Romney’ is a four-letter word for Brown, politically
speaking,” Gray said. Massachusetts has been the most
Democratic state in the past three presidential elections,
giving the party’s candidates an average of 61.2 percent of the
vote.  Last week, Brown rejected Romney’s recently publicized
comment that 47 percent of Americans are “dependent” upon the
federal government and won’t vote for him.  “My mom got public assistance for a short period of time,
so I don’t think anybody is on public assistance because they
want to be,” Brown told reporters in Washington. “They want
 jobs .”  Awkward Moment  Pressed on whether he still supports Romney’s campaign,
Brown said that while he didn’t agree with him on everything,
“that’s what being an independent senator is about.”  It was the clearest example so far of the awkwardness for
Fehrnstrom in advising both candidates, said Dan Payne, a
Democratic media consultant in  Boston  not working for Obama or
Warren.  “I’ve talked to Democrats and Republicans alike who said
it’s going to be hard for Eric to thread the needle when Romney
is so unpopular here that Brown either has to ignore him or
insult him,” Payne said.  Brown hasn’t mentioned Romney in a single advertisement,
based on a Bloomberg review of the spots that have aired. He
does frequently refer to Obama by name and his own ability to
work with Democrats, often in a genial speech delivered from the
driver’s seat of his pickup truck.  During one radio ad, Brown says that “standing with
President Obama” on the day he signed a veteran’s bill into law
was a “one of those great experiences” that he’s had as a
senator. At the end of the spot, it’s Fehrnstrom’s voice that
tells listeners the message was paid for by the Brown campaign.  Fehrnstrom Influence  Fehrnstrom “has if not all the power, the majority of it”
when it comes to Brown’s messaging, said Joe Malone, a
Massachusetts Republican who hired Fehrnstrom as a
communications director when he was state treasurer.
Fehrnstrom’s role in the Romney campaign is less clear, Malone
said. “It seems to me it’s more of a committee.”  Romney’s campaign has aired thousands of ads attacking
Obama. “When the president doesn’t tell the truth, how can we
trust him to lead?” a narrator asks in one ad that Romney has
run frequently in the past three months.  Malone said that Brown’s strategy has been viewed as
effective while Romney’s hasn’t.  ‘Breathes Politics’  “It’s no secret that Scott Brown on a daily basis has been
trying to reinforce the theme that he’s an independent person
who does not toe the line with the  Republican Party ,” Malone
said. “In that respect, Eric has to keep separate what he does
with Romney. It’s not easy, but it’s doable, especially for
Eric, who eats, sleeps and breathes politics.”  Veteran Republican media strategist Fred Davis said
Fehrnstrom’s situation is a reality for political operatives:
“It’s not a crusade, it’s a business. We all have mortgages to
pay.”  Still, Davis, who was Republican presidential contender
 John McCain ’s chief ad-maker, called Fehrnstrom’s situation
“exotic” and said he wouldn’t have been able to maintain a
client like Brown while trying to get McCain elected.  “We had five Senate races at the same time as McCain, but
no one was out there praising Obama,” Davis said. “That would
have been seen as a problem for us.”  Fehrnstrom’s Boston roots helped create his strong ties to
both Romney and Brown. The 51-year-old former journalist gives
Romney “backbone” and is “both the wise man and the hothead”
of his presidential campaign, GQ magazine said in a May 2012
article.  Romney Ties  Fehrnstrom’s tenure with Romney dates to 2002, when he was
a press aide during the Massachusetts governor’s race. After
Romney won, Fehrnstrom served as the governor’s communications
director, working alongside aides Myers, the governor’s chief of
staff, and Flaherty, a deputy chief of staff.  Romney left office in January 2007, and the trio joined his
2008 presidential campaign, which ended with McCain defeating
him in the primary election. In November 2008, Fehrnstrom,
Flaherty and Myers formed the Shawmut Group, according to
Massachusetts corporate records. The new firm was employed by
Romney’s political action committee between his presidential
campaigns.  In January 2010, Shawmut helped Brown score an upset win in
a special election held after the death of Democratic Senator
 Edward Kennedy . A Bloomberg review of FEC data shows Brown is
Shawmut’s only client this election cycle. American Rambler
doesn’t appear to have clients other than Romney.  Conflicting Images  There are other Brown-Romney crossover operatives:  Gail Gitcho , Romney’s communications director, was Brown’s former
communications director, and Colin Reed, Brown’s spokesman, is a
former Romney employee.  It was Romney who introduced Brown at his victory party
after winning the Senate seat. Yet references to Romney today
have mostly disappeared from Brown’s public speeches and ads.  “They’re both Republican, they’re both Massachusetts
politicians, and they share the same top strategist, so it’s
very surprising to see them deliver talking points that are
exact opposites,” said Mary Anne Marsh, a Democratic strategist
in Boston who isn’t working with Obama or Warren. For
Fehrnstrom, “you have to ask yourself, is it a contradiction,
or is it hypocrisy?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in  Washington  at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  