-- The Obama-Romney Plan for Middle East Peace
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-25T23:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/obama-and-romney-face-off-over-reforms-in-the-middle-east.html
What to make of the dueling
speeches on the Middle East by U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
his Republican opponent,  Mitt Romney ?  If you fused them together in a magical, alternate
speechwriting universe, you might have the makings of a viable
foreign policy for the tortured region.  In his address to the  United Nations General Assembly ,
Obama faced a tough task: Reaching two audiences -- voters in
the U.S. and Muslims in the Middle East -- who rarely listen,
much less regularly speak, to each other.  At least as far as Americans are concerned, he said many of
the right words, honoring the life of slain Ambassador Chris
Stevens while pledging to hunt down his killers, defending the
principle of free speech while affirming religious tolerance,
rejecting extremism and violence while proffering the hand of
friendship to those who do the same. If Obama did not win many
votes -- fewer than  5 percent  of voters choose candidates for
their foreign policy positions -- he probably did not lose many,
either.  Listeners in the  Middle East  could be forgiven for thinking
they had heard some of the speech before. Three years after
Obama’s soaring words in  Cairo , however, Arabs’ expectations
about his administration have come down to earth. Indeed,
according to one summer 2011  poll  of Arab attitudes, 85 percent
of respondents said “it doesn’t matter who the U.S. president
is, nothing gets better or changes.”  Disgusting Video  The president was right to distance the U.S. government
from a “crude and disgusting” video that deserved condemnation.
Yet that video probably wasn’t the reason Ambassador Stevens
died -- as Obama himself said, evidence is growing that the
attack was planned and his death “wasn’t just a mob action.”  Strangely, Obama didn’t talk about the U.S. policy that has
the highest likelihood of tamping extremism in the Muslim world:
supporting economic growth. That was left to Romney, who has
taken a few hits for his lack of foreign policy experience. In
his  remarks  to the  Clinton Global Initiative , the former
Massachusetts governor identified jobs and the economy as core
areas for the U.S. to focus on in its efforts to help and
reshape the Middle East after the Arab Spring.  This is not to say that his proposals were perfect. Romney
suggested exchanging increased U.S. trade access to Egypt’s
markets for help in building up the country’s small-business
sector. We’re all for freer trade, but that’s an unlikely path
on several levels.  Trade barriers are rarely lowered in exchange for
intangibles such as help in economic sectors. And U.S. expertise
of the kind needed to deliver the microeconomic boost Romney
talks about is limited. The  European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development , for example, has been struggling to find partners
it can work with in assisting private-sector growth in North
Africa.  What  Egypt  needs most is to stabilize its macroeconomy,
which has been badly damaged by a year and a half of political
unrest. That means securing the $4.8 billion International
Monetary Fund loan that Egypt has been negotiating, getting the
$1 billion in debt reduction that the U.S. has offered, and
enacting reforms to make foreign investors believe the country
is a safe place to put their money.  Given Romney’s focus on the economy, his decision to start
out his proposals by describing the election of a Muslim
Brotherhood president in Egypt as a problem -- right up there
with the deaths of thousands of Syrians -- was odd. The Muslim
Brothers might be difficult political partners, but since many
are small-business owners, they are probably the group most
likely to spark an entrepreneurial renaissance. Because they’ve
had to build private sector livelihoods around the military-
dominated state sector for decades, they have a natural interest
in creating more market-friendly laws.  No matter which man wins, U.S. policy over the next four
years will need to focus on the interconnected goals of
democratic tolerance and economic liberty. If it’s Romney, he
will learn -- as Obama has learned over the past three years --
that reform in the Middle East brings unexpected bedfellows.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Iceland’s economic recovery ;
 Margaret Carlson  on how Republicans  learned to love Todd Akin ;
Clive Crook on  India’s reform push ; Jonathan Mahler on the  NFL’s
enigmatic game plan for its referees ;  Peter Orszag  on how  a
longer school day benefits Chicago students ; Cass R. Sunstein on
 what Sixto Rodriguez can teach markets and politicians ;  Jeff
Rubin  on the  environmental consequences  of the Keystone XL
pipeline.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 