-- Obama Signs Human Trafficking Order Targeting U.S. Contractors
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-09-25T19:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/obama-signs-human-trafficking-order-targeting-u-s-contractors.html
President  Barack Obama  today signed
an executive order aimed at preventing federal contractors from
engaging in what he called “modern slavery.”  The order requires changes to government regulations that
would prohibit contractors and subcontractors from using
misleading recruitment practices, charging employees recruitment
fees and destroying or confiscating workers’ passports,
according to a White House  fact sheet .  Companies with contracts abroad valued at more than
$500,000 must set up a process for employees to report
trafficking violations “without fear of retaliation” and must
certify that they haven’t participated in trafficking, according
to the White House document.  Human trafficking “must be called by its true name, modern
slavery,” Obama said today during an address to the  Clinton
Global Initiative  in  New York . He said his message to oppressed
people around the world is: “We see you, we hear you, we insist
on your dignity.”  The U.S. Commission on Wartime Contracting, a bipartisan
panel established to look into contracting waste during the wars
in Iraq and  Afghanistan , uncovered evidence of trafficking and
exploitation of workers during trips to war zones, it said in a
report to Congress last year.  Foreigners were lured with promises of work in  Kuwait  at
good wages and upon arrival were routed to Afghanistan and paid
wages lower than promised,  the commission found . Contractors
also withheld pay from workers until their contract was
completed, preventing them from returning home.  Republican Criticism  “Existing prohibitions on such trafficking have failed to
suppress it,” according to the commission. “Labor brokers or
subcontractors have an incentive to lure third-country nationals
into coming to work for U.S. contractors, only to be mistreated
or exploited.”  A Republican lawmaker who supported legislation targeting
human trafficking by federal contractors criticized Obama’s
order.  Darrell Issa , a California Republican who chairs the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said while the
executive order “borrows many components from Congress’
legislative effort, it does not include the most important part:
expanding the criminal code to encompass foreign labor bondage
for work performed outside the U.S. and cracking down on grants
and grantees as well as just contractors.”  “If he’s going to find time to go before the cameras and
the international community to announce a half-measure policy,
President Obama owes it to victims of trafficking to commit
himself to personally engaging in the legislative effort to
enact actual changes to federal criminal statutes,” Issa said
in a statement.  The House passed legislation targeting human trafficking as
part of the 2013 National Defense Authorization Act. Similar
legislation hasn’t passed the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  