-- Oil Rises in New York on Report That Iran Fired Missiles
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-09-25T12:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/oil-rises-in-new-york-on-speculation-last-week-s-drop-overdone.html
Oil rose in New York after falling
for a fifth time in six days as  Iran  fired missiles as part of a
military exercise and before reports that will probably show
U.S.  consumer confidence  and the housing market improved.  Futures advanced as much as 1.2 percent, after prices slid
6.2 percent last week, as state-run news agency Fars reported
that Iran fired four missiles in the  Persian Gulf  as part of a
war game. Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said in a U.S.
television interview yesterday that his nation will defend
itself if attacked by Israel.  “Iran has been supporting prices today after the hostile
rhetoric yesterday and over the weekend,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London. “U.S. data is
supportive in the short term.”  Oil for November delivery increased $1.01 to $92.94 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
as of 12:45 p.m. London time. It earlier gained as much as $1.14
cents to $93.07. The contract declined to $91.93 a barrel
yesterday, the lowest close since Sept. 20. Prices are down 6
percent this year.  Brent for November settlement gained $1.22 to $111.03 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark grade’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was at $18.09, from $17.88 yesterday.  Military Exercise  The missiles “were fired simultaneously toward the same
large target at sea, the size of a warship, and sunk it within
50 seconds,” Admiral Ali Fadavi, the Revolutionary Guard Corps’
navy commander, said in comments reported late yesterday by
Fars. The test-firing took place on Sept. 23, he said.  The Islamic republic monitors the entirety of its coast on
the Persian Gulf and is keeping an eye on U.S. bases in the
Gulf, Fadavi said. The Guards will hold a military exercise in
the  Strait of Hormuz  before the end of the Iranian calendar year
on March 20, he was cited as saying.  “Any nation has the right and will indeed defend herself”
if attacked, Ahmadinejad said in an interview with  CNN . A war
started by Israel would be backed by the U.S., he said Sept. 23
on state-run Al-Alam television, Fars reported.  Confidence among American consumers probably rebounded this
month and a gauge of  home prices  rose the most in almost two
years in July, economists said before reports today.  Consumer Confidence  The Conference Board’s  index  of U.S. consumer confidence
rose to 63.2 in September from 60.6 in August, based on a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the report at 10 a.m.
New York time. An index from S&P/Case-Shiller at 9 a.m. in New
York will show home prices in 20 U.S. cities rose 1.1 percent in
July from a year earlier, the most since August 2010, a separate
survey showed.  The U.S.  Federal Housing Finance Agency  may say that home
prices rose 0.6 percent in July, the sixth consecutive monthly
increase.  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer of homebuilder
Lennar Corp., said yesterday that housing is “beginning to
revert to normal.”  “In the medium to long term, the monetary policy measures
announced by the central banks are likely to bring about higher
prices,”  Carsten Fritsch , a Commerzbank AG analyst based in
Frankfurt, said today in a report.  U.S. crude supplies probably rose last week for the longest
run of increases since May, according to a Bloomberg survey
before an Energy Department report tomorrow. The  American
Petroleum Institute  will release separate inventory data today.  Inventories advanced for a third week in the seven days
ended Sept. 21 as output rebounded after Hurricane Isaac,
according to the median estimate of nine analysts in the
Bloomberg survey. Stockpiles climbed to 369.6 million barrels,
which would leave them at the highest level since the week ended
Aug. 3. Seven of the respondents forecast a gain and two
projected a decline.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  