-- Oil Declines to Seven-Week Low on Plosser Comments
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-09-25T20:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/oil-climbs-as-home-prices-in-u-s-increase.html
Oil fell to a seven-week low as
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser 
said a new stimulus program probably won’t boost growth.  Prices dropped 0.6 percent after Plosser said bond buying
announced by the Fed probably won’t spur expansion or hiring.
Futures surged to a 2012 high of $100.42 a barrel on Sept. 14, a
day after the  Federal Open Market Committee  said it will
undertake a third round of quantitative easing.  “Worries about the economy and our ability to grow have
been weighing on the market,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based energy hedge fund. “We’ve
fallen quite a bit from $100 on concern that quantitative easing
won’t be enough.”  Crude oil for November delivery dropped 56 cents to $91.37
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Aug. 2. The contract rose to $93.20 earlier.
Prices are down 7.5 percent this year.  Prices were little changed after the industry-funded
 American Petroleum Institute  reported oil inventories increased
335,000 barrels to 361.8 million last week. Futures fell $1.19,
or 1.3 percent, to $90.74 a barrel at 4:45 p.m. Prices were at
$90.96 before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent for November settlement rose 64 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $110.45 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark grade’s premium to West
Texas Intermediate widened to $19.08, the most since Aug. 16.  Bond Purchases  The Fed said Sept. 13 that it would purchase mortgage-
backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month until labor
markets improve substantially.  “Conveying the idea that such action will have a
substantive impact on labor markets and the speed of the
recovery risks the Fed’s credibility,” Plosser said in the text
of a speech prepared for delivery today in Philadelphia.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index erased gains after
Plosser’s comments.  “His comments did have an effect on the market and got
people to sell and break some support levels and push lower,”
said Joe Posillico, senior vice president of energy derivatives
at Jefferies Bache LLC in  New York .“The equities market sold
off right after he made those comments and this is ironic
because this is where the stock market was trading when they
announced QE3.”  Prices also fell on speculation that the government may
report tomorrow that supplies increased a third week through
Sept. 21.  Inventory Projection  The Energy Department report will probably show that
 inventories of crude  climbed 1.9 million barrels last week,
according to the median of responses from 11  analysts surveyed 
by Bloomberg. Supplies climbed 8.53 million barrels the previous
week to 367.6 million, 8.4 percent higher than a year earlier.  “People are expecting another build tomorrow and nobody
wants to buy oil,” said Bill Baruch, senior market strategist
at Iitrader.com in  Chicago .  West Texas Intermediate oil traded in New York rose as much
as 1.4 percent earlier as confidence among U.S. consumers rose.  The early advance took place after the Conference Board’s
 index  of consumer optimism climbed to 70.3 in September, a
seven-month high. The figure exceeded the most optimistic
projection of 73 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median
forecast called for the confidence gauge to reach 63.1.  Oil also climbed earlier this month on concern that tension
in the  Middle East  and North Africa will disrupt supply.  Obama Speech  President  Barack Obama  pledged in a speech to world leaders
today that the U.S. is committed to preventing  Iran  from
obtaining a nuclear weapon and said the time for resolving the
issue through diplomacy “is not unlimited.” Iran was the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ third-biggest
producer in August, according to a Bloomberg survey of
companies, producers and analysts.  Obama told the annual meeting of the  United Nations General
Assembly  in New York that a nuclear-armed Iran would imperil
 Israel , ignite a regional arms race and destabilize the global
economy.  “Make no mistake: A nuclear-armed Iran is not a challenge
that can be contained,” Obama said in the text of his remarks.
“The  United States  will do what we must to prevent Iran from
obtaining a nuclear weapon.”  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said in an interview
with  CNN  yesterday that his nation will defend itself if
attacked by Israel. A war started by Israel would be backed by
the U.S., he said Sept. 23 on state-run Al-Alam television,
Fars, Iran’s state-run news agency, reported.  Iranian Rhetoric  “The reaction to the latest barrage of rhetoric from Iran
has been muted,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York.  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa were
responsible for 36 percent of global oil production and held 52
percent of proved reserves in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 384,411
contracts as of 4:46 p.m. Volume totaled 363,835 contracts
yesterday, the lowest level since May 25. Open interest was 1.56
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  