-- Stocks Drop With Oil as Dollar Rebounds on Growth Concern
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-09-25T20:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/oil-metals-rebound-as-nikkei-225-gains-before-dividend-deadline.html
U.S. stocks sank, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its biggest loss in three months,
amid concern that global stimulus measures won’t be enough to
boost growth. Oil fell and the dollar reversed earlier losses.  The S&P 500 slid 1.1 percent to 1,441.59 at 4 p.m. in  New
York , erasing an early advance of 0.4 percent. Oil retreated 0.6
percent to a seven-week low of $91.37 a barrel. The  Dollar
Index (DXY) , a gauge of the currency against six major peers, rose 0.2
percent to 79.664 after retreating 0.2 percent earlier. Ten-year
Treasury yields fell four basis points 1.67 percent after
earlier rising two points.  U.S. equities  turned lower  after the S&P 500 rose as high
as 1,463.24, within three points of its best closing level since
December 2007. Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President
 Charles Plosser  said the new bond-buying plan announced by the
Fed this month probably won’t boost growth or hiring and may
jeopardize the central bank’s credibility. Equities rallied in
morning trading as reports on  consumer confidence  and  home
prices  topped economists’ estimates.  “Things won’t get better as fast as people think they
will,”  Malcolm Polley , who manages $1.1 billion as chief
investment officer at Stewart Capital in Indiana, Pennsylvania,
said by phone. “The Fed’s actions are not going to lead to
higher growth.”  Caterpillar Inc. sank more than 4 percent to lead losses in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  after the world’s biggest maker
of construction and mining equipment cut its forecast for 2015
earnings. Staples Inc., the largest U.S. office supplies chain,
dropped 4.5 percent on plans to close stores. Red Hat Inc.
retreated 4.3 percent after the largest seller of the open-
source Linux operating system reported profit that missed
analysts’ estimates and pared its sales forecasts.  Confidence, Housing  Stocks started the session higher after the Conference
Board’s  sentiment index  increased to 70.3 this month from 61.3
in August, exceeding the most optimistic projection of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values in 20 cities increased 1.2 percent from July
2011, the biggest 12-month advance since August 2010. The median
forecast of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
1.05 percent gain.  The  S&P 500  has erased almost all its gains since the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said Sept. 13 that it will
undertake a third round of quantitative easing by purchasing
mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion per month
until labor markets “improve substantially.” Policy makers are
using unconventional tools to attack a jobless rate stuck above
8 percent since February 2009.  ‘Fed’s Credibility’  Economic research indicates that additional asset purchases
are “unlikely to reduce long-term  interest rates  by a
significant amount” and that lowering rates “by a few more
basis points” won’t spur growth and hiring, said Plosser, who
doesn’t have a vote on policy this year. The  U.S. economy  is
growing “at a moderate pace” and probably will expand by about
3 percent in 2013 and 2014, he said.  “We are unlikely to see much benefit to growth or to
employment from further asset purchases,” Plosser said in the
text of a speech prepared for delivery today at the Fed bank in
Philadelphia. “Conveying the idea that such action will have a
substantive impact on labor markets and the speed of the
recovery risks the Fed’s credibility.”  Both the S&P 500 and the Dow average are trading near their
all-time highs of October 2007. The Dow needs to rise about 5.3
percent to reach its peak of 14,164.53, while the S&P 500 needs
an increase of about 8.6 percent to reach its record of
1,565.15.  Earnings Outlooks  While more U.S. companies have  lowered  their earnings
projections than  raised them  this month, there hasn’t been an
acceleration in revisions as the third quarter comes to an end.
For every one company that raised its estimates in the past 20
trading days, 1.9 cut theirs, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ratio has averaged 1.4 since Aug. 1, less than
the 2.1 mean since 2000, Bloomberg data show. It’s down from the
almost four-year high reached on July 23, when eight companies
cut forecasts for every one that boosted them.  The euro slipped 0.2 percent to $1.2903 as it weakened
against 12 of 16 major peers.  Spain  sold 4 billion euros ($5.2
billion) of three- and six-month bills, while demand dropped at
the sale of Italy’s notes.  Greece faces a financing gap that won’t be solved by budget
measures being discussed, International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday. Nobel Prize-winning
economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said euro members will have to share
debts and speed the implementation of a banking union to prevent
a situation in which “the whole system falls apart.”  European Markets  The cost of insuring European corporate debt rose for a
second day, with the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-
default swaps on 50 mostly junk-rated companies climbing 22
basis points to 553.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  increased 0.4 percent today and
has rallied 18 percent from this year’s low on June 4 as
European Central Bank policy makers agreed to implement an
unlimited bond-buying program and the Fed unveiled its third
round of quantitative easing.  Telekom Austria AG sank 7.2 percent to an 11-year low after
cutting its dividend. Continental AG sank 4 percent as
Schaeffler AG sold a 10.4 percent stake in the tire producer.
Standard Chartered Plc slipped almost 1.6 percent after a report
that the bank’s largest shareholder talked to potential buyers
for its holding.  Daily Mail & General Trust Plc (DMGT) , publisher of
the Daily Mail newspaper, advanced 1.5 percent after saying
full-year results will be in line with analyst estimates.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 0.4 percent.
Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 0.5 percent, while Brazil’s Bovespa
sank 2.3 percent for its biggest drop on a closing basis in two
months. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies traded in  Hong Kong  retreated 0.2 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi index lost 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  