-- Home Prices Unlikely to Come ‘Roaring’ Back, Case Says
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-09-25T16:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/home-prices-unlikely-to-come-roaring-back-case-says.html
U.S. home prices, which climbed
more than forecast in July, are unlikely to come “roaring”
back as the housing market reaches bottom, according to  Karl Case , the economist who co-created the S&P/Case-Shiller index.  The  gauge  of property values in 20 cities rose 1.2 percent
from July 2011, the biggest 12-month jump since August 2010, a
report from the group showed today in New York. The median
forecast of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a 1.1
percent gain. The increase followed an advance in June that was
the first on a year-over-year basis since a temporary federal
tax credit boosted sales in 2010.  The index, while rising, remains about 30 percent below its
peak in July 2006. A broader recovery may be hindered by tight
lending standards, slow economic growth and a limited supply of
properties on the market as Americans choose to stay in their
homes rather than sell, Case said. The U.S. unemployment  rate 
was above 8 percent in August for the 43rd consecutive month.  “We’re at a bottom but I don’t think we’ll come roaring
out of here,” Case, professor emeritus at  Wellesley College  in
Massachusetts, said today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “You’ve got problems in the economy,
problems abroad, and got the demographics to worry about.”  A separate  index  from the Federal Housing Finance Agency
released today showed prices for U.S. single-family houses with
mortgages backed by  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  or  Freddie Mac  rose 0.2 percent
in July from the previous month on a seasonally adjusted basis.
The median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a 0.6 percent gain. Prices rose 3.7 percent from a year
earlier, the FHFA said.  Phoenix, Atlanta  Sixteen of the 20 cities measured in the Case-Shiller index
showed a year-over-year advance, led by a 17 percent increase in
Phoenix. Atlanta had the biggest drop, with prices falling 9.9
percent.  Record-low  mortgage rates , a smaller share of sales of
foreclosed properties and low  inventory  are boosting prices,
 Patrick Newport , an economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington, Massachusetts, wrote in a note to clients today.
Further gains may be held back by an overhang of distressed
properties from homeowners in default or foreclosure, he said.  “We are expecting prices to continue rising, but not much
faster than inflation, at least over the next five years,”
Newport wrote.  Robert Shiller , the co-creator of the home-price index,
isn’t ready to say the market is at a bottom, Case said. It
would take at least a year of price increases to determine there
is a recovery in housing, Shiller, a Yale University economist,
said on CNBC last week. He didn’t immediately respond to a
telephone message seeking comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  