-- On Keystone, Environmentalists Lose by Winning
-- B y   J e f f   R u b i n
-- 2012-09-25T22:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/on-keystone-environmentalists-lose-by-winning.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed $7.6
billion Keystone pipeline system, which would take crude from
Alberta’s tar sands down through the Midwest and on to Texas and
the Gulf Coast refineries, could be scuttled because of concerns
about its potential impact on a major aquifer in Nebraska.  President  Barack Obama  has blocked the project application,
citing the need for further review. TransCanada intends to
reapply, but a decision won’t be made until after the  U.S.
presidential election .  Yet environmentalists could find that an apparent victory
over Keystone will do more harm than good. The U.S. economy,
meanwhile, is set to learn a hard lesson.  If the aim of opponents was to keep TransCanada from
building the 1,600-mile Keystone line, then they have
accomplished their mission. But if the objective was to fight
global  carbon emissions  by hindering the expansion of Alberta’s
tar-sands production, then little has changed. What’s more, a
win for Nebraska’s farmers has now dramatically increased the
risk to the pristine rainforests along the coast of British
Columbia.  Tar Sands  Output from Canada’s tar sands, currently about 1.5 million
barrels a day, is forecast to double by 2020. Until Keystone was
tripped up by the Nebraska aquifer, the project looked like the
best option for getting new production to world markets. In the
long run, several new pipelines will be needed to handle the
extra volume from the tar sands. But in the short term, the
competition to build a new line looks like a horse race.
Keystone had the inside track, but the political delay has
created an opening for a competitor,  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s $5.5
billion Northern Gateway that could ship about 525,000 barrels
of oil a day from Alberta to a terminus in Kitimat, British
Columbia. Regardless of which pipeline gets the nod, once
construction begins, the necessity for oil-sands producers to
build the other line will be alleviated.  Right now, Canadian  oil companies  have a huge incentive to
fast-track another pipeline out of Alberta. The bulk of the
province’s tar-sands output currently ends up in refineries
clustered throughout the U.S. Midwest. An increase in volume
from the tar sands, combined with prolific production from so-
called Bakken shales, a new oil play being exploited in  North
Dakota  and Montana, has created a supply glut at those
refineries.  As it stands, Canadian oil makes it only as far south as
Cushing, Oklahoma, the terminal point for the pipeline system.
The plan for Keystone would extend the system another 435 miles
to the Gulf Coast, effectively connecting landlocked Cushing to
world oil markets. Gulf Coast refineries also hold more spare
capacity than those of any other refining region in the U.S.  A surplus of oil backing up at Cushing has turned into a
sweet deal for Midwest refiners, and explains why  West Texas
Intermediate crude  traded more than $20 a barrel lower than
benchmark world  oil prices  for most of 2011. Without a new
pipeline, Midwest refiners will get to keep paying a discounted
price for Canadian oil.  Considering that  Canada exports  more than 2 million barrels
of oil a day to the U.S., getting shortchanged by $20 on every
barrel sold is no trifling matter. It works out to about $40
million a day or roughly $1.25 billion a month in forgone
petrodollars. And it’s not just Canadian oil producers that take
a hit. The royalties collected by Alberta’s provincial
government also shrink with the corporate taxes collected by
Canada’s federal government.  Refiners’ Profit  What exactly happens to that missing $20 a barrel? U.S.
motorists don’t get a break at the pumps. The big winners are
the oil companies that own the Midwest refineries, which have
been pocketing huge profits on the back of abundant supplies
from Canada.  In the refining business, the difference between the cost
of feedstock, such as bitumen from Alberta’s tar sands, and the
price charged for end products, such as gasoline and diesel, is
known as the crack spread. A wide crack spread means refiners
are making a lot of cash. In Cushing, crack spreads have been as
much as five times wider than margins for refineries in other
parts of the U.S. On the Gulf Coast, for example, refineries pay
the going rate for Light Louisiana Sweet crude, which trades
close to the same price as  Brent crude , the benchmark world oil
price. The story is much the same for refineries on the Pacific
and Atlantic coasts.  Refineries in the Midwest, in contrast, get to fatten up at
the expense of Canadian oil exporters. Keystone would have
changed that game. Until a major new pipeline is constructed,
crack spreads in the Midwest will remain wide open. But it’s
unlikely that oil will keep flowing to places where it gets sold
at a discount.  If Obama finds the flow of oil from Canada’s tar sands too
hot to handle, the Chinese will certainly have no qualms about
taking it off his hands. In the event that Enbridge gains
approval from Canada’s National Energy Board to build Northern
Gateway, a zero-sum world will only tilt that much further in
China’s direction. Once  oil tankers  load up at Kitimat and hit
the high seas, their cargoes will go to the highest bidder. That
probably means China. Before building a new pipeline, companies
such as Enbridge secure commercial agreements to make sure the
pipe will be filled with product. It’s an open secret in
Canada’s oil patch that representatives of the Asian market are
part of the group that has already secured space on a potential
new line to the Pacific coast.  China Pivot  Five or six years ago, the idea of Alberta oil heading
directly to China would have been unthinkable. Why ship oil
across an ocean when the world’s best customer lives next door?  Times have changed. In 2010, China’s state-owned refining
company,  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , or Sinopec, paid
$4.65 billion for a 9 percent stake in Syncrude Canada Ltd.,
which runs the largest of Alberta’s four tar-sands mines. It was
the first time a Chinese company took a direct position in a
producing tar-sands asset; it won’t be the last.  Before that deal, Chinese companies had already picked up
stakes in a number of early-stage projects that have yet to
reach commercial production. A year earlier,  PetroChina Co. (857) , one
of the country’s state-owned exploration companies, spent $1.9
billion for a 60 percent share of a project being developed by
 Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH) , and it paid an additional $680 million for
the remaining stake in early 2012. Prior to that, Sinopec and
 China National Offshore Oil Corp. (883) , another state-run company,
each picked up ownership positions in smaller players with big
plans on the drawing board.  And China’s interest in Canada’s oil patch isn’t limited to
the tar sands. Late last year, Sinopec paid $2.9 billion for
Daylight Energy, a midsized exploration and production company
with operations in Alberta and British Columbia.  China’s deep pockets have also made an impression on the
Alberta government. That’s not hard to do when you are willing
to pay world oil prices that are as much as $20 a barrel higher
than Canada’s one-time favorite customer to the south. The pull
of the Chinese market is also being felt in Canada’s capital,
Ottawa, where politicians are taking a long look at the merits
of giving the go-ahead to Northern Gateway. Shortly after
Obama’s pronouncement on Keystone, Canada’s minister of natural
resources, Joe Oliver, said he wanted a regulatory decision on
Northern Gateway by 2013, a full year ahead of the previous
schedule.  It’s tough to refute the benefits of opening new markets
for Canadian oil, which is currently being held hostage by U.S.
refiners. If officials in Washington continue to drag their feet
on Keystone, expect to see Canadian politicians shift their
focus from winning U.S. congressional support to fast-tracking a
pipeline to the Pacific.  Conservationist Opposition  Of course, this doesn’t ensure that Northern Gateway will
be built. The pipeline faces fierce opposition from
conservationists who are worried about what the project will
mean for the ecosystems on the Pacific coast. It faces an even
stiffer test in convincing members of the First Nations that a
new pipeline is in their best interests. The pipe will cut
across lands that are traditionally claimed by First Nations
groups, and these unresolved land claims are a potential
quagmire that could derail the project.  That said, oil is Canada’s No. 1 export. At current prices,
pipeline economics make for a powerful political force. Northern
Gateway would increase the revenues of Canadian oil companies by
billions of dollars. More  cash flow  means more profits, which
means more money in government coffers.  The government in Ottawa has the incentive to do everything
it can to make one of the proposed pipelines a reality as soon
as possible. If Northern Gateway goes ahead, the big loser will
be the  U.S. economy , which needs as much Canadian oil as it can
get. And America’s loss could turn into China’s gain.  There is, however, one ray of hope: the end of growth. The
triple-digit oil prices that will bring Chinese tankers halfway
around the world to fill up on oil extracted from tar could also
deep-six the global economy. If China stops growing at its
current clip, maybe it won’t need to import oil from the tar
sands.  That’s one of the silver linings of a static economy. A new
world of slower growth will certainly usher in painful changes,
but it also might save one of the largest remaining temperate
rainforests in the northern hemisphere.  ( Jeff Rubin , a former chief economist and chief strategist
at CIBC World Markets Inc., is the author of “Why Your World Is
About to Get a Whole Lot Smaller.” This is the third of four
excerpts from his new book, “The Big Flatline: Oil and the No-
Growth Economy,” which will be published Oct. 16 by  Palgrave
Macmillan . The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1  and
 Part 2 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Barack Obama’s mixed success
at the UN  and on  Iceland’s economic recovery ;  Margaret Carlson 
on how Republicans  learned to love Todd Akin ; Clive Crook on
 India’s reform push ; Jonathan Mahler on the  NFL’s enigmatic game
plan for its referees ;  Peter Orszag  on how  a longer school day
benefits Chicago students ; Cass R. Sunstein on  what Sixto
Rodriguez can teach markets and politicians .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeff Rubin at  jeffrubin@sympatico.ca   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  