-- Onex Said to Be Near Deal to Buy KraussMaffei
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-09-26T11:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/onex-said-to-be-near-deal-to-buy-kraussmaffei-from-madison.html
Onex Corp. (OCX) ,  Canada ’s largest buyout
firm, agreed to buy KraussMaffei AG, the German maker of
machinery for processing plastics and rubber owned by Madison
 Capital Partners , as it increases investments in Europe.  The Toronto-based private-equity firm will pay 568 million
euros ($731 million) for KraussMaffei, according to a statement
today. The acquisition marks the first European-based investment
for the $4.7 billion fund Onex Partners III, and the transaction
should close by the end of March, the company said.  Founded in 1984 by Chief Executive Officer Gerald Schwartz,
Onex has completed about 360 acquisitions whose total value
exceeds $40 billion, according to its  website.  The German
company, which employs about 4,000 people and supplies the
automotive, construction and electronics industries, has sales
of about 1 billion euros.  The Onex fund will invest $340 million in equity in the
deal, of which Onex’s share is about $86 million as a limited
partner in the fund. Including this transaction and the
acquisition of SGS International Inc. earlier this month, the
fund will have invested about 60 percent of its money.  “I look forward to working with my colleagues to find
similar investment opportunities as we build our business in
 Europe ,” Tony Morgan, a managing director at Onex in London,
said in the statement.  Buyout firms such as Onex typically use loans secured on
the targets they acquire to finance half to two-thirds of the
purchase price, while using cash from their own funds for the
rest. The firms seek to improve performance at the companies
they acquire, or expand them, before selling them within about
five years.  KraussMaffei was sold to Chicago-based Madison Capital
Partners in 2006, according to the German company’s website. The
company was formerly known as MPM Mannesmann Plastics Machinery
GmbH and has previously been owned by  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Siemens AG. (SIE) 
Madison hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to find a buyer, people
familiar with the process said in June.  KraussMaffei Group is unrelated to Krauss-Maffei Wegmann
GmbH, the German armored vehicle maker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  London  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  