-- Orbotech Jumps on TV Demand Ahead of Holidays: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-25T22:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/orbotech-jumps-on-tv-demand-ahead-of-holidays-israel-overnight.html
Orbotech Ltd. (ORBK) , the biggest Israeli
maker of gear used to test televisions and smartphones, surged
to a three-month high in the U.S. on prospects demand for
multimedia products will climb heading into the holiday season.  The Yavne, Israel-based maker of quality-control equipment
jumped 1.7 percent to $8.60 in New York yesterday, the highest
level since June 27. Orbotech, which trades at a 37 percent
discount to the average multiple for companies on the Nasdaq
Composite Index, has advanced 13 percent this quarter after
slumping 34 percent in the second. The  Bloomberg Israel-US
Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most traded Israeli stocks in the U.S.
dropped yesterday, led by  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)   Orbotech tumbled 24 percent in June after the company cut
its 2012 revenue estimate by as much as $70 million and said
employee practices in  South Korea  were being investigated. The
company’s discount to other technology shares is luring
investors as LCD screen manufacturers such as  AU Optronics Corp. (2409) 
and LG Display Co. also gain in the quarter, according to
National Securities Corp.  “The company’s outlook announcement lowered the bar and
investors are resetting expectations and finding a level where
they can get into the stock,” Darice Liu, an analyst at
National Securities, who has the equivalent of a hold rating on
Orbotech, said in a telephone interview from New York yesterday.
“The display industry has been in the doldrums and there are
glimmers of hope that the market may improve, especially heading
into the holiday season.”  American depositary receipts of Taiwan-based AUO have
gained 23 percent this month, the most in three years, while
ADRs of LG Display are poised for a fourth straight month of
gains of more than 5 percent.  Cellcom, MagicJack  The Bloomberg Israel-U.S. Index slid 1.5 percent to 86.24,
declining for the first time in six days and paring its advance
this month to 2.5 percent. The  Tel Aviv  Stock Exchange, closed
for the Yom Kippur Jewish holiday, reopens for trading tomorrow.  Cellcom, Israel’s largest mobile-phone provider, retreated
9.3 percent to $8.46. The Tel Aviv shares climbed 2.5 percent to
34.75 shekels, or $8.91 on Sept. 24.  MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL) ,
the Israeli company whose founders invented the technology used
for making phone calls over the Internet, sank 9.2 percent to
$24.02, the most since May 30.  Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, rose 1.9 percent to $41, trading at a $1
premium to its shares in Tel Aviv, which closed at 155.9
shekels, or $39.97, on Sept. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  