-- Lorenzo Weisman, Worldly BNP Paribas Banker, Dies at 67
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-09-26T12:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/lorenzo-weisman-bnp-paribas-banker-dies-at-67.html
Lorenzo Weisman, a banker with
global roots and expansive interests whose boutique investment
bank, Hill Street Capital LLC, was purchased in 2010 by  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA, has died. He was 67.  He died on Sept. 22 at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center  in  New York . The cause was  brain cancer , according to his
wife, the former Danielle-Camille Maysonnave.  A lover of the arts, raised in  Guatemala  with a deep
appreciation for his French Jewish heritage, Weisman attended
 Columbia Business School  with the intent of entering the theater
business.  “He was a Renaissance man -- he really was,” his wife,
who is known as Stanley, said yesterday in an interview. “He
played guitar, he was an actor. He went to business school
because he wanted to buy a theater. He wanted to direct.”  She recalled her surprise when he sat her down one day
during his business-school studies to say they wouldn’t be going
back to Paris as planned. “I fell in love with finance,” he
said.  So after earning his master’s degree in business
administration in 1973, he stayed in New York to join Dillon
Read & Co., rising to head its European operations. When Dillon
Read became part of SBC Warburg in 1997, before its merger into
 UBS AG (UBSN) , Weisman served as head of Latin American corporate
finance.  ‘Loved Business’  In 2001, he and a Dillon Read colleague, John Brim, started
New York-based Hill Street Capital, naming the firm after the
location of Dillon Read’s former London office in the Mayfair
neighborhood. Both men joined Paris-based BNP Paribas,  France ’s
largest bank, when it bought their firm to expand its U.S.
mergers and acquisitions and corporate-advisory work.  “Lorenzo always loved business, always loved the pursuit
of a good deal,” Brim, who heads corporate finance for  North
America  at BNP Paribas in New York, said yesterday in an
interview. “But business was only part of his very broad range
of interests. He was a huge fan of the arts, a subscriber to the
opera and the philharmonic, a serious collector of pre-Columbian
art, an excellent offshore ocean racer in his sailboat, a
devoted father and grandfather.”  ‘Been Around’  When Weisman, at 56, joined Brim in starting their own
business, he told Euromoney magazine, “It’s become a very young
culture in  investment banking  everywhere. Clients appreciate
people who have been around longer.”  At BNP Paribas, Weisman was head of corporate finance for
North and South America. He retired this year for medical
reasons.  He served on the  Columbia Business School ’s Board of
Overseers for 18 years. He “always led by example, inspiring
his fellow alumni to connect to the school in meaningful ways,
including through lending their financial support, volunteering
on campus and recruiting the next generation of business
leaders,”  Glenn Hubbard , the business school dean, said in a
 statement .  Lorenzo David Weisman was born on March 22, 1945, to French
Jewish parents in Guatemala City. His father, Edouard, had run a
small private bank in France that was seized by Nazi
authorities, prompting him to move to Guatemala, where his
father had started a department store, Weisman’s wife said.  Paris Years  Weisman moved to the U.S. to attend the Moses Brown School
in Providence, Rhode Island. He graduated from  Harvard
University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1966 and moved to
Paris to pursue theater, becoming an actor with the Comedie-
Francaise, France’s oldest theater. There, he met his future
wife.  Before leaving for business school, he directed a play
featuring his friend,  Gerard Depardieu , his wife said.  In a 25-year career at Dillon Read, he worked on
international mergers and acquisitions, moving to London in 1977
to help build up the firm’s European business. In 1981 he became
chairman of London-based Dillon Read Overseas Corp., succeeding
Evan Galbraith, who had left to become U.S. ambassador to France
under President  Ronald Reagan .  While at the helm in London, Weisman had to handle the
fallout from more than $1 million in losses that led to the
wholesale dismissal of a seven-man trading team, according to
Robert Sobel’s “The Life and Times of Dillon Read” (1991).
“We had people who were totally unreliable,” Weisman said,
according to Sobel’s account.  Ocean Races  Weisman returned to New York in 1993, managing
international corporate finance and focused on rebuilding the
company’s presence in  Latin America .  An avid sailor, Weisman competed four times in the Newport,
Rhode Island, to Bermuda race, according to the death notice.
The 635-mile  course  typically takes a few days to complete.  He was a former president of the co-op board at 1107 Fifth
Ave., where he and his wife lived since 1993. “His elegance and
witty demeanor brought spark to our building,” the current
board wrote in a Times death notice. His co-op neighbors
included designer  Ralph Lauren  and Sony Corp. Chairman  Howard
Stringer , according to an earlier Times story.  Weisman was chairman of the  advisory committee  of the David
Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies at Harvard and was
a former chairman of the board of the French Institute/Alliance
Francaise in New York.  In addition to his wife, survivors include three children,
Melissa, Alexia and Thomas, and six grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  