-- Total May Look to North Sea, Africa for $20 Billion in Sales
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-09-25T16:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/total-may-look-to-north-sea-africa-for-20-billion-in-sales-2-.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest
oil company, may sell off aging fields in the North Sea and
 Africa  to achieve as much as $20 billion in disposals.  The French producer said it’s targeting $15 billion to $20
billion in divestitures from 2012 to 2014, and the sales could
also include refineries and pipelines. Candidates have been
identified and most will come from the exploration and
production division, Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said yesterday, declining to name specific assets.  Total is following  BP Plc (BP/)  and others in stepping up sales
as  oil prices  hold above $100 a barrel, creating a stronger
market for producing assets. De Margerie can use the cash raised
to invest in more lucrative projects and drilling for new fields
as the company aims to pump 3 million barrels a day of oil and
gas in 2017.  “The disposal target is achievable,” said Stuart Joyner,
an analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in London. “They have
non-core assets in the  North Sea  and in peripheral areas close
to their big fields in Africa and  Latin America . By doing this,
they’ll increase the quality of the portfolio on a profit-per-
barrel basis.”  The company has  outperformed  larger European competitors
this year, gaining 3 percent in Paris.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
the region’s biggest oil company, has dropped 1.5 percent in
Amsterdam, while London-traded BP is down 3.2 percent. Total
rose 0.5 percent to 40.74 euros today.  Recent Sales  Total’s latest asset-sale target, announced during an
annual investor conference in London, compares with $15 billion
of “finalized” sales in 2010 and 2011, according to figures
given in February. A portion of these came from the divestment
of shares in French drugs-maker Sanofi.  BP set a target for $30 billion of asset sales to shore up
its balance sheet following the 2010 Macondo oil spill off the
southern U.S. It later raised that goal to $38 billion by the
end of 2013 and has completed about $32 billion of disposals so
far, including the sale of Gulf of Mexico deepwater fields for
$5.6 billion this month.  Other companies have followed suit. Shell sold about $12
billion in assets in the 18 months to July, while  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  boosted second-quarter net income by $7.5 billion with
gains from divestitures and tax-related items.  “It seems like a good time to sell things,” said Iain Reid, an analyst at Jefferies in London. “BP led the way on
this one, it’s opened the eyes of the other majors. Total has
marginal stuff in the North Sea, and then they might look at
North or West Africa.”  Quicker Pace  Total has quickened the pace of deals in recent years as
part of a policy to “actively manage” its portfolio of
exploration acreage, refineries and pipelines around the world.
The Paris-based company agreed last year to sell its stake in
the Norwegian Gassled pipeline system, while de Margerie has
said he’s studying selling the TIGF network in southern  France .
It also sold a stake in a Spanish oil refiner and tried to sell
the Lindsey refinery in the U.K.  “They definitely will have another look at selling the
Lindsey refinery,” according to Investec’s Joyner. “The bounce
in refining margins will help, but I’m not sure the market for
European refining assets is that robust.”  One focus of the sales plan could be the specialty
chemicals division, on which Total executives were quizzed
yesterday. These assets include adhesives brand Bostik, rubber-
based products maker Hutchinson, as well as Atotech, a business
supplying solutions for metal coatings such as chrome.  Fuel Shortages  Total executives are cautious when discussing possible
sales of factories or refineries in France following a battle
with the government and workers to shut its Dunkirk plant.
Protests over the plan to shut the refinery threatened
nationwide fuel shortages and resulted in the company having to
promise the government it wouldn’t close another one for five
years.  To reach the latest target, Total can’t sell $20 billion of
assets in the downstream business alone, de Margerie said. Asset
sales have become “part of our strategy,” he said.  The  oil company  said yesterday it expects to increase
output by an average of 3 percent a year from 2011 to 2015,
compared with an earlier goal of 2.5 percent. It was also the
first time Total had given a longer-term target, saying
production will reach about 3 million barrels of oil equivalent
a day in 2017.  The outlook for  cash flow  gives the company scope to
increase dividend payments and invest in production, de Margerie
said. In addition to reorganizing its portfolio, the explorer
has pledged to be “bolder” in the search for hydrocarbons.  “I feel better today with the new strategy, the new mood
brought to the company, than a few years ago,” de Margerie
said. “I’m not scared of the result.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  