-- HP Investor Suit Against Hurd, Directors Dismissed by U.S. Judge
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-09-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/hp-investor-suit-against-hurd-directors-dismissed-by-judge-2-.html
Former  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Hurd  and company directors won dismissal
of a shareholder lawsuit alleging that Hurd’s severance pay was
wasteful and excessive.  U.S. District Judge Edward Davila in San Jose, California,
said shareholders in the so-called derivative complaint failed
to show that Palo Alto, California-based HP’s approval of a
separation agreement with Hurd was against the corporation’s
best interests.  Davila also said the complaint fails to raise a reasonable
doubt that the board’s decision about the amount of Hurd’s
severance pay was “a valid exercise of business judgment.” The
judge dismissed this allegation and gave the plaintiffs 30 days
to amend the complaint with additional facts.  Shareholders in the lawsuit are demanding that Hurd be
required to disgorge to the company payments and benefits
described in his separation agreement, according to the filing.  The lawsuit alleges  directors  at the largest maker of
computers wasted company money by awarding Hurd as much as $53
million in severance pay when he resigned in August 2010. Hurd,
now co-president of software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , quit after an
internal investigation by HP found that he violated business
conduct standards in trying to conceal a personal relationship
with Jodie Fisher, a marketing contractor.  Samuel M. Ward, a lawyer at Barrack Rodos & Bacine in San
Diego representing lead plaintiff Louis Levine, didn’t
immediately return a phone call yesterday seeking comment on the
ruling.  The case is In Re HP Derivative Litigation, 10-3608, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net 
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  