-- Pan-African TVC News to Start 24-Hour Broadcasting From November
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-09-25T10:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/pan-african-tvc-news-to-start-24-hour-broadcasting-from-november.html
TVC News, a 24-hour news channel
owned by Continental Broadcasting Service Nigeria Ltd., will
begin airing across Africa from November and will compete with
international broadcasters for viewers.  TVC News, which will be based in Lagos, Nigeria’s
commercial capital, will have offices in Abuja, the capital, and
the southern oil hub of  Port Harcourt , Nigel Parsons, chief
executive officer of CBS, said in a Sept. 21 phone interview.
The company will also have offices in Johannesburg, Nairobi,
Accra and Dakar, he said.  TVC News will join other pan-African stations, such as
Johannesburg-based  eNCA , which became South Africa’s first 24-
hour news channel four years ago. eNCA has bureaus across
Africa’s largest economy, as well as in Lagos, Nairobi and
Beijing and correspondents in Zimbabwe, Ghana and Tanzania,
according to its website.  “Part of the reason of this channel is too many foreign
channels just cover death and disaster in Africa,” Parsons, who
is a former managing director at Al Jazeera English, said from
Lagos. “There’s a lot to celebrate, business is booming in
Africa.”  Sub-Saharan Africa’s economy will probably expand 5.4
percent this year as rising commodity prices and increased oil
production help to offset a slowdown in Europe, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  TVC News has secured agreements to air on  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  in the U.K.,  Naspers Ltd. (NPN) ’s DSTV in
Nigeria,  Multi TV  in Ghana, said Parsons. The channel is also in
talks with TopTV and DSTV in South Africa,  DISH Network Corp. (DISH)  in
the U.S. and Wananchi Group Ltd. in  Kenya , he said.  Revenue will come from a mix of sponsorship and
advertising,  as well as being supported by CBS’s existing TVC
Entertainment channel and Radio Continental, said Parsons.  The channel employs about 350 people, which includes
editorial, technical, management and administration workers, he
said. Parsons declined to comment on the amount invested in the
station.  TVC News will follow “a similar model” as other
international 24 hour news channels, like the British
Broadcasting Corp., Cabel News Network Inc. and  Al Jazeera , said
Parsons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  