-- Paraguay to Sell $550 Million Bonds by January, Franco Says
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s
-- 2012-09-26T01:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/paraguay-seeks-550-million-bond-sale-by-january-president-says.html
Paraguay  aims to sell its first
global bonds by mid-January as President Federico Franco seeks
to tap the lowest emerging-market borrowing costs to accelerate
development in the land-locked South American country.  Officials are meeting with investors ahead of the planned
sale of $550 million in securities, Franco said in an interview
today at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . Franco, who took
office in June after former President Fernando Lugo was
impeached, vowed to reduce the country’s dependence on the
regional trade bloc known as Mercosur, develop oil and gas
resources and build an aluminum smelter plant.  “We’ve come to see if we can sell an unprecedented amount
of bonds next year so that Paraguay can join the family of
nations in which it’s safe to invest,” Franco said.  Paraguay joins emerging-market countries including Zambia
and Bolivia in seeking to take advantage of record-low yields by
raising funds overseas. The yield on emerging-market debt fell
to a record 4.71 percent on Sept. 11 and was at 4.77 percent
yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI Global
indexes.  Angola , which shares Paraguay’s BB- rating from
 Standard & Poor’s , sold $1 billion of debt in the form of loan
participation notes due in seven years to yield 7 percent in
August for its first international issue.  S&P removed Paraguay from a negative credit-watch on Aug.
29, saying the political turmoil in the country from Lugo’s
ouster would have a “limited impact” on the economy.  Paraguay’s economy may grow as much as 12 percent in 2013
after not expanding this year, Franco said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Faries in Miami at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  