-- Pennsylvania Loosens Voter ID Card Requirements
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/pennsylvania-court-reconsiders-voter-id-availability.html
Pennsylvania  loosened its
requirements for an alternative voter-identification card after
the state Supreme Court questioned the ability of all residents
to comply with a statute requiring photo ID to cast a ballot in
the general election in November.  The Pennsylvania Supreme Court, ruling 4-2 on Sept. 18,
ordered Commonwealth Court Judge Robert E. Simpson to consider
whether all eligible voters will be able to obtain acceptable ID
if the law is upheld. Simpson ruled Aug. 15 that the  American
Civil Liberties Union , which sued challenging the law, hadn’t
proved the law would disenfranchise voters. The state high court
asked Simpson to submit a supplemental opinion on the
availability of alternate IDs by Oct. 2.  “This is an evolutionary process,” Kurt Myers, deputy
secretary for safety administration for Pennsylvania’s
Department of Transportation, testified yesterday at a hearing
in Harrisburg. “We’ve learned through the process and learned
ways to make it easier for people to get.”  The new requirements for a voting-only ID card from the
Department of State went into effect yesterday at 71 PennDOT
centers statewide, Myers said.  The case is among multiple court battles over voting rules
in states including Florida, Ohio and  Wisconsin , where
Republican and Democratic presidential campaigns see the
possibility of victory. A state analysis found that the photo
requirement might exclude as much as 9 percent of Pennsylvania’s
electorate from voting in the presidential election.  South Carolina  Attorneys for  South Carolina  Sept. 24 argued for their
state’s voter-ID law before a panel of federal judges in
 Washington .  President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, carried Pennsylvania,
which has 20 of the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win
the presidency, by 620,478 votes in 2008, fewer than the number
of voters that might be kept from the polls in November, the
ACLU and advocacy groups said.  Pennsylvania’s law, enacted in March, requires voters to
present a state-issued ID or an acceptable alternative such as a
military ID or federal employee identification, to cast a
ballot.  Opponents of the law said likely Democratic voters, such as
the elderly and the poor, are those least likely to have a valid
ID by Election Day. The Department of State, which governs
elections, on Aug. 27 began offering new ID cards as a last
resort for those unable to obtain a valid substitute.  The state  Supreme Court  said in its Sept. 18 ruling that
the state wasn’t living up to the law’s requirement that it
provide “liberal access” to alternate forms of ID. To decide
whether the measure can be implemented, more details are needed
about the availability of the Department of State’s ID, the
court held.  ‘Exhaustion’ Requirement  The new card procedures implemented by the Department of
State include eliminating the “exhaustion” requirement,
allowing voters to apply directly without first seeking a
PennDOT ID, Myers said. The move cuts the process down to one
trip for applicants.  Applicants no longer need to show two proofs of residency
or state a gender, Myers said. PennDOT also streamlined the
process for verifying birth records and extended hours at some
centers to accommodate ID requests, he said.  The state has issued only 9 percent of the minimum number
of IDs it estimates are needed, the ACLU said. About 1,300 DOS
cards have been given out since Aug. 27, Myers testified. That’s
in addition to about 9,500 cards issued by PennDOT since March,
he said.  Myers and other state officials testified yesterday that
the new requirements, an expanded help line for voters and a $5
million education campaign sufficiently addressed the Supreme
Court’s concern about accessibility.  ‘Relatively Small’  “The actual number of people who need to get the voter ID
we believe is relatively small and they’re having success in
getting them,” Alfred Putnam, an attorney for Governor Tom Corbett and Secretary of the Commonwealth Carol Aichele with
Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP, said during the hearing.  An “intense media effort” is under way throughout the
state with more than 8,000 ads slated to run by Nov. 6, Shannon
Royer, deputy secretary for external affairs and elections at
the Department of State, testified. The media campaign puts
emphasis on educating minorities, the elderly and college
students, Royer said.  “I know of no other state law that has received this much
publicity,” Royer told Simpson.  The Supreme Court’s ruling “did not find that the
requirements of the voter ID statute itself were
unconstitutional,” Patrick Cawley, an attorney for the state,
said Sept. 24 in a court filing.  The question raised by the Supreme Court focused on whether
the alternative DOS identification card was “too hard to
get’,” Putnam said.  Amended Rules  “The Department of State has amended the rules as to what
you need for the card,” Putnam said. “It was plainly made in
response to the ruling of the Supreme Court.”  Simpson’s review comes as some Pennsylvania counties have
announced plans to issue voter IDs through county-run nursing
homes and colleges, exploiting a loophole in the measure.  The law allows Pennsylvania care facilities and accredited
colleges and universities to issue identification cards to
anyone as long as the cards show an expiration date. Officials
in Allegheny County, which includes the city of Pittsburgh, and
Montgomery County said last week they would begin issuing their
own ID cards through county-run nursing homes and a  community
college  starting Oct. 1.  Pennsylvania’s Department of State said it’s discouraging
that process because of security risks.  “We believe it’s legal within the law but it brings up
security issues with those facilities,” Matt Keeler, a
department spokesman, said Sept. 24 in a phone interview. “This
wasn’t part of the bill’s intent.”  Simpson is scheduled to hear additional arguments in the
case on Sept. 27.  The case is Applewhite v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 330
MD 2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  