-- Ping An Seeks International Arbitration to Recoup Fortis Losses
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-25T02:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/ping-an-seeks-international-arbitration-to-recoup-fortis-losses.html
Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318) ,
 China ’s second-biggest insurer, said it’s seeking  international
arbitration  after negotiations with the Belgian government for
compensation on its investment losses in Fortis failed.  “We have no alternative but to defend Ping An’s rights
through legal action,” the Shenzhen-based company said in an e-
mailed statement today. “The Belgian government’s misconduct
towards Fortis back in 2008 violated the legitimate rights and
undermined interests of Fortis investors.”  Ping An wrote off 22.8 billion  yuan  ($3.6 billion) in 2008
on its investment in Brussels- and Amsterdam-based Fortis,
bailed out by three European governments after what was once
 Belgium ’s biggest financial-services firm became a casualty of
the global credit crunch. Fortis shareholders in 2009 approved
the sale of banking units to BNP Paribas SA, a move the Chinese
insurer opposed at the time saying it destroyed the company’s
value and impaired shareholders’ interests.  “The chances are slim that Ping An can recover the
losses,” Olive Xia, a Shanghai-based analyst at Core Pacific
Yamaichi International Ltd., said by phone. “It’s hard to say
if that should be called misconduct, as the Belgian government
had to consider not just individual companies, but the entire
financial market.”  Ping An’s net income rose 9.4 percent in the first half of
this year as premiums expanded and its banking unit contributed
more revenue. The insurer in 2008 posted its first annual profit
decline since it listed in 2004 on losses from Fortis.  “We have been trying very hard to negotiate with the
Belgian government through different channels on compensation
for our investment losses in Fortis,” the company said in
today’s statement. “Regretfully, these negotiations have not
been successful.”  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  