-- Plosser Says QE3 Risks Fed Credibility, Won’t Boost Jobs
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-09-25T21:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/plosser-says-qe3-risks-fed-credibility-won-t-boost-jobs.html
Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said new bond buying
announced by the Fed this month probably won’t boost growth or
hiring and may jeopardize the central bank’s credibility.  “We are unlikely to see much benefit to growth or to
employment from further asset purchases,” Plosser said in a
speech today at the district bank in Philadelphia. “Conveying
the idea that such action will have a substantive impact on
labor markets and the speed of the recovery risks the Fed’s
credibility.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said Sept. 13 that it
will undertake a third round of quantitative easing by
purchasing mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40 billion
per month until labor markets “improve substantially.” Policy
makers are using unconventional tools to attack a  jobless rate 
stuck above 8 percent since February 2009.  Economic research indicates that additional asset purchases
are “unlikely to reduce long-term  interest rates  by a
significant amount” and that lowering rates “by a few more
basis points” won’t spur growth and hiring, said Plosser, who
doesn’t have a vote on policy this year. The  U.S. economy  is
growing “at a moderate pace” and probably will expand by about
3 percent in 2013 and 2014, he said.  ‘Meager Benefits’  U.S. stocks sank, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
to its biggest loss in three months, amid concern that global
stimulus measures won’t be enough to boost growth. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.1 percent to 1,441.59 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  after climbing as much as 0.4 percent.  “I opposed the Committee’s actions in September because I
believe that increasing monetary policy accommodation is neither
appropriate nor likely to be effective in the current
environment,” Plosser said. “Every monetary policy action has
costs and benefits, and my assessment is that the potential
costs and risks associated with these actions outweigh the
potential meager benefits.”  The FOMC also said this month it will probably hold the
 federal funds  rate near zero at least through mid-2015. The Fed
had forecast since January that rates will stay low at least
through late 2014.  In addition, the Fed said on Sept. 13 “a highly
accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate
for a considerable time after the economic recovery
strengthens.” The  S&P 500  rose to 1,465.77 on Sept. 14, the
highest close since December 2007.  ‘Hard Won’  The Fed’s “hard-won credibility” is crucial because if
the public doesn’t have confidence in policy makers, their
ability to set effective monetary policy will be harmed, hurting
households and businesses, Plosser said. If people believe the
central bank will delay raising rates, they may “infer that the
Fed is willing to tolerate considerably higher inflation,”
spurring an increase in inflation expectations that would
require a response from the FOMC, Plosser said.  “The Fed’s most recent actions carry with them significant
risks,” Plosser said. “I am not forecasting that those risks
will necessarily materialize and I hope they will not. But if
they do, they could prove quite costly to the economy.”  Before announcing QE3 this month, the Fed expanded its
balance sheet with two prior rounds of bond purchases. In the
first, starting in 2008, the Fed bought $1.25 trillion of
mortgage-backed securities, $175 billion of federal agency debt
and $300 billion of Treasuries. In the second round, announced
in November 2010, the Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries.  ‘Entail Risks’  Plosser said in response to audience questions that he’s
“worried that the actions we are taking to make our balance
sheet bigger entail risks and those risks could be quite
substantial.”  The central bank may “be forced into selling assets in the
open market” when it needs to reduce stimulus, he said. Policy
makers “must be aware of the consequences,” from their
decisions.  Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota , who
doesn’t vote on policy this year, endorsed additional easing on
Sept. 20, saying interest rates may need to stay close to zero
for four years to cut unemployment.  As long as inflation doesn’t exceed 2.25 percent, the Fed
“should keep the fed funds rate extraordinarily low until the
 unemployment rate  has fallen below 5.5 percent,” he said in a
speech. Last May he said borrowing costs may have to rise as
soon as this year.  Guide Inflation  Plosser said today that central banks can’t effectively
target employment levels the same way they can guide inflation
rates because hiring also depends on variables unrelated to
monetary policy, such as technology, education and tax rates.  “It doesn’t make sense to say that there is a particular
unemployment rate that we can achieve,” Plosser told reporters
after his speech. “The problem with the labor markets is there
are many things that affect employment and unemployment that are
beyond the control of the Fed.”  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker , who votes on the
FOMC this year and was the only policy maker to dissent at the
last meeting, said QE3 probably won’t do much to boost the labor
market. “This is going to have a greater effect on inflation
and a minimal impact on jobs,” Lacker said in a Sept. 15
 interview  on  National Public Radio .  Similarly,  Richard Fisher  of  Dallas , who doesn’t vote on
monetary policy this year, opposed the third round of purchases,
which he said led to an increase in market expectations for
higher inflation without more  job creation . “I do not see an
overall argument for letting inflation rise to levels where we
might scare the market,” Fisher said in a Bloomberg Radio
interview.  Plosser, 64, became president of the Philadelphia Fed in
August 2006. He was previously dean of the graduate school of
business administration at the University of Rochester in New
York State. The Philadelphia Fed will next have a vote on policy
decisions in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  