-- Providence Equity Said to Sell Stake in Firm to Investors
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-09-25T17:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/providence-equity-said-to-sell-stake-in-firm-to-investors.html
Providence Equity Partners Inc.,
the buyout firm with holdings in Univision Communications Inc.
and the cable-television network of the  New York Yankees , sold a
minority stake to Florida’s state pension system and a
sovereign-wealth fund, said a person with knowledge of the move.  Proceeds from the sale, which will give the two investors
less than 10 percent in the company, will be used to expand the
business, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the transaction was private. Dennis MacKee, a spokesman
for the Florida State Board of Administration in Tallahassee,
confirmed the state invested $150 million in Providence’s
management company.  “We’ve invested in the area of $450 million in their funds
since 2007,” MacKee said by telephone. “They have been good
performers for us. We have a good relationship with them.”  Providence follows competitors such as TPG Capital and Apax
Partners LP in selling stakes of their management companies as
the firms seek capital to expand beyond traditional leveraged
buyouts. CVC Capital Partners Ltd., based in London, told
investors this month it agreed to sell a 10 percent stake to
three sovereign-wealth funds, one in the  Middle East  and two in
 Asia , according to two people with knowledge of the move.  The two largest private-equity firms by assets,  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  and  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , sold interests in their
management companies through initial public offerings.  New Fund  Andrew Cole, a spokesman for Providence at Sard Verbinnen &
Co., declined to comment.  The person didn’t disclose the identity of the wealth fund
that bought part of Providence Equity.  Providence, which is based in Providence,  Rhode Island , and
which manages about $27 billion with a focus on investments in
media and education, raised more than $4 billion as of May for
its latest buyout fund, two people with knowledge of the matter
said at the time. The firm is seeking as much as $6 billion and
expects to close the fund by the end of the year, the people
said.  Dow Jones’s LBO Wire reported Providence’s stake sale
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  