-- Qatari Leader Calls for Arab-Led Intervention in Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-09-25T23:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/qatari-leader-calls-for-arab-led-intervention-in-syria.html
Qatar’s emir called for an Arab-led
intervention in  Syria , hinting at the use of military means to
stop a conflict that has dragged on for 18 months.  After the  United Nations Security Council ’s failure to act
in Syria, “it is better for the Arab countries themselves to
interfere out of their national, humanitarian, political and
military duties and to do what is necessary to stop the
bloodshed in Syria,” Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani told the
193-member General Assembly yesterday.  Qatar has led the group of Persian Gulf nations seeking
more far-reaching measures to end Syrian President Bashar al- Assad’s rule, even going as far as arming the opposition, a step
widely criticized by the UN and Western nations. Al Thani
yesterday suggested Arab nations should act in unison and
intervene in Syria as they did in the 15-year civil war in
Lebanon.  “We have a similar precedent when the Arab forces
intervened in Lebanon” in the 1970s, he said.  The extent of potential military intervention was left
unclear.  “It’s easy to say tough things at the UN, but will they
actually send in military? Nope,” said  Richard Gowan , associate
director for crisis diplomacy and peace operations at  New York 
University’s  Center on International Cooperation .  “Qatari officials have always been among the most hawkish
on Syria, but Qatar can hardly lead a large-scale
intervention,” Gowan said in an e-mail. “This statement was
probably meant to prod others, like  Turkey , towards mounting an
operation.”  French Involvement  France  has been in talks with Qatar, Jordan and Turkey
about establishing protected civilian zones in Syria, French
President  Francois Hollande  said at a press conference in New
York after his General Assembly address yesterday.  “We must protect these zones,” he said, while
sidestepping questions seeking more details about how that would
be done. “We are not there yet, but we are working with our
partners,” he said.  Earlier, at the UN, he said France “will recognize a
provisional government, representative of the new free Syria, as
soon as it is formed. It will demand full guarantees each
community be respected and live in security in the Syria of the
future.”  A U.S. State Department official said the Qataris have
pushed the idea of a military intervention for some time. While
the U.S. hasn’t eliminated any course of action, for now it
believes that military intervention from the outside would do
more harm than good, the official said.  Slow Diplomacy  The official, who wasn’t authorized to speak for
attribution because the talks are private, said that the U.S.
and Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN and Arab League special envoy,
believe diplomacy can be used to bring about a negotiated
political transition in Syria. The official said that during
Brahimi’s talks with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
yesterday, Brahimi made it clear he believes this will take
time.  The U.S. and Brahimi are mindful that negotiations might
ultimately fail, the official said. Until that point is reached,
the U.S. will continue to back a strategy of applying economic
and political pressure on the Assad regime and helping the
Syrian opposition with supplies and in its attempts to become a
more unified force.  A meeting of the so-called Friends of Syria, set to take
place Sept. 28 on the margins of the UN General Assembly, will
examine ways to connect opposition groups inside and outside
Syria and foster unity among them, the official said. Clinton
will also announce changes in U.S. aid to the opposition, the
official said.  Lebanese Anxiety  Clinton also met with Lebanese Prime Minister  Najib Mikati 
yesterday. The two spent most of their meeting talking about the
potential risks and threats to Lebanon’s stability posed by the
conflict in Syria, including refugee flows, the State Department
official said,  Mikati highlighted his concerns about extremists entering
Lebanon and using the northern part of the country as a platform
for their activities, the official said.  Also yesterday, Qatar’s prime minister, Hamad bin Jasim bin Jabr Al Thani, said in a CNN interview that Qatar would propose
a “Plan B” for Syria involving safe havens and more
humanitarian aid. Buffer zones would require the use of military
force for protection, U.S. officials have said in resisting
calls to support that type of effort.  The prime minister didn’t name any of the countries that
may be involved in the plan. Syria is located in the heart of
the  Middle East , with Turkey, Lebanon,  Israel  and  Iraq  as
neighbors.  ‘Aspirational’ Plan  Salman Shaikh, director of the  Brookings Institution ’s Doha
Center in Qatar, said the countries involved “want to
accelerate, given the dangers of where we are and the situation
inside Syria, to this kind of alternative. It’s a bit of a risk
if it doesn’t really work.”  Shaikh, speaking by telephone from Amsterdam, said he would
“consider it to be aspirational rather than something which is
enforceable, especially without the U.S. support” to ensure a
no-fly zone.  International and regional efforts have failed to put an
end to the bloodshed in Syria, where at least 28,000 people have
been killed, according to estimates by the opposition Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights . At least 35 people died yesterday,
including 19 in Daraa, according to the opposition Local
Coordination Committees in Syria.  The UN refugee agency has  registered  221,280 Syrian
refugees in neighboring nations, a figure that doesn’t include
civilians displaced in Syria by the fighting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in New York at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  