-- Rambus, Star Scientific, TiVo: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-25T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/rambus-star-scientific-tivo-intellectual-property.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS) , which was sanctioned
by a judge for destruction of documents in a U.S. chip-patent
case with  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , will only be required to pay what is
defined as a reasonable royalty.  U.S. District Judge Ronald M. Whyte in San Jose,
 California , on Sept. 21 decided to strike from the record in the
case any evidence supporting a Rambus royalty that is “in
excess of a reasonable and non-discriminatory” amount,
according to court documents. Whyte ordered both companies to
file their proposals on the rate amount to the court.  “There is a possibility that Rambus did not destroy any
evidence that would have been beneficial to SK Hynix’s
litigation position,” Whyte wrote in his decision. “However,
because Rambus is the party that destroyed documents by the box
and bag without keeping any record of what was destroyed, Rambus
must suffer the consequences of that uncertainty.”  Both Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix and Sunnyvale,
California-based Rambus welcomed the decision.  The ruling “substantially limits any royalties on Rambus’s
patents,” SK Hynix said in a statement.  Rambus is hopeful the decision “will lead to putting this
matter behind us completely and allow us to reach reasonable
agreements,” the company’s general counsel Thomas Lavelle said
in a statement yesterday.  The ruling follows an appeals court decision last year
concluding that Rambus destroyed documents relevant to its case
against the South Korean company. The appeals court ruling sent
the case back to Whyte to determine appropriate sanctions.  SK Telecom Co. completed acquiring a 21 percent stake in
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. in February, becoming the biggest
shareholder, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  upheld Whyte’s denial of Hynix’s bid to throw out a
2006 verdict finding the company infringed Rambus patents or
grant a new trial. It vacated the financial damages judgment,
throwing out a $397 million judgment against Hynix, because of
the document spoliation.  Rambus’s cases against Hynix, and another related case
against  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , are over the companies’ use of
interfaces that are part of dynamic random access memory that
acts as the main memory in computers. DRAM is built to industry
standards and is interchangeable by product. Hynix and Micron
claimed Rambus got rid of papers that would have proved Rambus
misled the board that sets that standard.  The case is Hynix Semiconductor Inc. v. Rambus Inc., 00-cv-
20905, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Jose).  Star Scientific, Reynolds End Patent Suit, Filing Shows  Star Scientific Inc. (STSI)  and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. said
they have settled their patent-infringement dispute over a way
to reduce carcinogens in cigarettes.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed in documents filed
yesterday in federal court in Greenbelt,  Maryland , seeking
dismissal of lawsuits. The companies said the agreement “is not
an acknowledgment of liability of any party.”  A federal appeals court last year left two Star patents
intact while upholding a jury verdict that  R.J. Reynolds , a unit
of  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , didn’t infringe them during the 2001
and 2002 tobacco-growing seasons. A separate Star lawsuit
accused Reynolds of infringing the patents during later growing
seasons.  Reynolds said in the filings that it reserves the right to
rely on the non-infringement finding in any future legal
actions.  Reynolds was asking the U.S. Supreme Court to invalidate
the two Star patents. The justices had been scheduled to
consider that bid at their private conference yesterday.
Instead, the two companies on Sept. 21 submitted a joint request
that the appeal be dismissed, and the request was granted.  Reynolds had argued in its appeal that the Star patents
aren’t specific enough. The patents cover a curing process that
prevents “bacterial activity” in tobacco leaves, resulting in
the lowest levels of cancer-causing nitrosamines, according to
Star.  Star said Reynolds used the technology without permission
because the larger company was unable to achieve similar
nitrosamines reductions on its own. Reynolds denied the claim.  R.J. Reynolds makes Camel, Winston and Salem brand
cigarettes and is based in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Star
Scientific is based in  Glen Allen ,  Virginia .  The case is Star Scientific Inc. v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
Co., 01cv1504, 02cv2504, and 09cv1411, all U.S. District Court
for the District of Maryland (Greenbelt). The Supreme Court case
is R.J. Reynolds v. Star Scientific, 11-1182.  TiVo Achieves $250.4 Million Patent Settlement With Verizon  TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the pioneer of digital-video-recording
technology, will receive at least $250.4 million under a patent-
litigation settlement with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   The TiVo agreement requires Verizon to make an initial cash
payment of $100 million, followed by quarterly payments totaling
$150.4 million through July 2018, Alviso, California-based TiVo
said yesterday in a statement. Verizon also will pay monthly
license fees for every Verizon DVR subscriber beyond a
predetermined level.  “We are pleased to reach an agreement with Verizon which
underscores the significant value our distribution partners
derive from TiVo’s technological innovations and our
shareholders derive from our investments in protecting TiVo’s
 intellectual property ,” TiVo Chief Executive Officer Tom Rogers
said in the statement.  TiVo, which developed the first commercially available DVR,
has struggled to capitalize on the invention over its 15-year
life. The company has lost money in eight of the past 10 years.  Verizon also settled yesterday with CloudTV developer
ActiveVideo Networks Inc. of San Jose, California, for $260
million, according to a separate statement.  ActiveVideo makes virtual set-top box applications that
allow users to stream video to televisions and other devices.
Verizon and ActiveVideo agreed to cross-license certain patents
and to not sue each other for an unspecified number of years.  Verizon and RedBox are testing a streaming video rental
service called RedBox Instant that is expected to deliver video
in select markets by Christmas.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Xerox Trademark Retains Protection in India, Board Rules  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  prevailed in a challenge to its “Xerox”
trademark in India, the Hindu  reported .  The owner of a photocopying shop had petitioned India’s
Intellectual Property Appellate Board to remove “Xerox” from
the registry of trademarks on the grounds that it had become
through use a synonym for photocopying, the Hindu reported.  The board said that after almost 50 years with no
challenges to Xerox’s Indian trademark, “we do not think the
mark deserves to be removed,” according to the newspaper.  In its ruling the board notes that Norwalk, Connecticut-
based Xerox has objected to the casual use of the term by
government agencies in India, and the response was always a
promise to avoid such errors in the future, the newspaper
reported.  Cravatex Trademark License From Fila Extended for 30 More Years  Cravatex Ltd. (CRAV) , a Mumbai-based sportswear manufacturer, will
be a  Fila Korea Ltd. (081660)  licensee for another 30 years, the Economic
Times  reported .  Seoul-based Fila will double the number of stores in India
to 200 in the next two years, according to Economic Times.  The Fila’s 30-year license with Cravatex aims to give the
Indian company plenty of time to invest more in the business,
Economic Times reported.  Fila presently has a 5 percent market share in India’s
sportswear market, and intends to double that by 2015, according
to Economic Times.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Dotcom Says He’s  James Bond  Villain as NZ’s Key Orders Spy Probe  New Zealand Prime Minister John Key ordered an inquiry into
allegations the country’s spy agency conducted illegal
surveillance and wiretaps of people tied to Megaupload.com,
whose founder Kim Dotcom is accused of the biggest copyright
infringement in U.S. history.  The Government Communications Security Bureau, which
provides New Zealand with foreign intelligence, acted unlawfully
in helping police find individuals connected to Megaupload and
illegally acquired communications, Key said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday, citing a court filing by prosecutors. Key
didn’t name any of the people involved.  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money-laundering charges in the indictment, with the U.S.
seeking his extradition for a trial in Virginia.  “I’m now a real life James Bond villain in a real life
political copyright thriller scripted by Hollywood and The White
House,” Dotcom said on the social media site Twitter after
Key’s statement. “Please extend the inquiry to cover the entire
Crown Law Mega case.”  Key referred the probe to the Inspector-General of
Intelligence and Security after he was informed on Sept. 17,
according to the statement. He has asked the independent officer
to offer recommendations to prevent a recurrence.  The probe should examine the U.S. role in the illegal
spying, Dotcom’s U.S. lawyer Ira Rothken said in a phone
interview from the Auckland suburb of Coatesville.  “We want to know if the U.S. was aiding or abetting
domestic spying in New Zealand,” said Rothken, of San
Francisco-based Rothken Law Firm. “It’s something that must be
scrutinized, not only to protect Kim Dotcom’s privacy but to
protect the privacy of all New Zealanders.”  Dotcom is also attempting to prove that the Jan. 20 search
and seizure of his leased Auckland property were unreasonable.
He is seeking recovery of computers and hard drives that were
taken by police. A New Zealand police officer overseeing the
raid questioned whether using helicopters was “over the top”
in an August court hearing.  “I expect our intelligence agencies to operate always
within the law,” Key said. “Their operations depend on public
trust.”  The case is Kim Dotcom v. Attorney General, Civ 2012-404-
1928.  High Court  of New Zealand (Auckland).  Counsel Didn’t Infringe Copyright With Complaint, Court Rules  An attorney whose client sued him for copyright
infringement won his bid to have the complaint dismissed.  Bernard Gelb of Regal Park, New York, sued his former
attorney for infringement after the lawyer filed a complaint
Gelb claimed infringed the copyright to a complaint from an
earlier case.  Gelb, who runs a business that reunites unclaimed financial
property with its owners, hired Norman A. Kaplan of Great Neck,
New York, to represent some of his clients in a class action
against Chase Manhattan Bank.  After the two had a falling out, Kaplan said he wouldn’t
work with Gelb any longer, although he would continue to
represent the original clients, and filed a second complaint in
the case, according to court papers.  Gelb then sued for infringement in April 2011, claiming he,
rather than the lawyer, was the author of the original
complaint, and that by re-filing it, Kaplan infringed his
copyright.  A federal judge in Central Islip, New York, rejected Gelb’s
claims. In her Sept. 19 ruling, U.S. District Judge Carol Bagley Amon said that the lawyer had an implied license to use the
complaint. She also noted that as a non-lawyer, Gelb wouldn’t
have represented his clients in court and required the services
of Kaplan.  Gelb argued in his complaint that Kaplan didn’t do any of
the legal work. Judge Amon disagreed, saying that since the
docket in the underlying class action indicated Kaplan made at
least 11 filings on behalf of Gelb and his client, the lawyer
“indisputably” provided legal services.  Kaplan acted within the scope of his implied license by
filing the second complaint, she said.  The case is Unclaimed Property Recover Service Inc. v.
Norman A. Kaplan, 2:11-cv-01799-LDW-ARL, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 