-- Rate-Rigger Jail, Merrill Fined, BOE Governor: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-25T12:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/rate-rigger-jail-merrill-fined-boe-governor-compliance.html
European Union lawmakers should
enact tougher punishments for market abusers, including jail
time, by the end of the year in response to the Libor scandal,
the bloc’s financial-services chief said.  A culture of banks rigging interest-rate benchmarks shows
the importance of an agreement on tougher market-abuse rules,
 Michel Barnier  told a panel of EU lawmakers in Brussels
yesterday. EU regulators are also investigating possible
breaches in cartel rules from both banks and brokers in the
setting of Libor, Joaquin Almunia, the EU’s competition
commissioner, said in his testimony to the European Parliament.  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark interest rate for more
than $500 trillion of securities, was shaken following  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ’s admission in June that it submitted false rates. The
revelations provoked renewed calls for tougher oversight of the
financial system and pushed regulatory and criminal probes of
interbank lending rates to the top of the political agenda.  The parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee is
preparing to vote on Oct. 8 to boost the bloc’s sanctions
against market abuse, including jail sentences for bank staff
found guilty of collusion to fix interbank lending rates.  The cartel probes will end as soon as possible, Almunia
said, and will result in hefty fines if antitrust violations are
proven.  For more, click here, and see Interviews/Hearings, below.  Compliance Policy  Denmark Is Biggest Loser in Basel Plan Redefining Assets  Denmark’s mortgage system, already fighting global
liquidity rules the industry warns would spell its demise, is
now battling a plan to redefine trading assets it says ignores
the Nordic country’s centuries-old framework.  A proposal by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
would require banks to shift all mark-to-market assets to
trading books. That would force Denmark’s $480 billion mortgage
industry to reclassify home loans as traded assets, even though
they’re not resold. The plan also ignores the fact that a
mortgage’s interest-rate risk is passed on to the bondholder,
leaving issuers with a capital shortfall as big as $61 billion,
according to the Association of Danish Mortgage Banks.  Denmark’s home-loan industry, which backs the world’s
third-largest mortgage-bond market, is still trying to persuade
regulators in Europe to change Basel liquidity rules it says
would force banks to dump mortgage assets.  The Basel Committee’s deadline for accepting comments on
the proposal was this month. Denmark’s central bank and
Financial Supervisory Authority, in a  letter  dated Sept. 11,
said such a requirement would raise Danish mortgage bank capital
needs by “several multiples” without reflecting lenders’
actual risk levels.  For more, click here.  Basel Group Publishes Guidelines on ‘Financial Conglomerates’  Global regulators yesterday  published guidance  to
supervisors of banks with insurance arms.  The “principles” on so-called financial conglomerates,
drawn up by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and
insurance regulators, updates guidance from 2001. Subjects
covered in the guidance include supervision, corporate
governance, capital adequacy and liquidity, and risk management.  The principles examined include the “role of supervisors
in assessing capital adequacy on a group basis, taking into
account unregulated entities and activities,” and the risks
they pose, according to the statement issued by the Bank for
International Settlements yesterday.  Compliance Action  RBS Managers Condoned Libor Manipulation During Expansion  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  managers condoned and
participated in the manipulation of global interest rates,
indicating that wrongdoing extended beyond the four traders the
bank has fired.  In an instant-message conversation in late 2007, Jezri
Mohideen, then the bank’s head of yen products in Singapore,
instructed colleagues in the U.K. to lower RBS’s submission to
the London interbank offered rate that day, according to two
people with knowledge of the discussion. No reason was given in
the message as to why he wanted a lower bid. The rate-setter
agreed, submitting the number Mohideen sought, the people said.  Mohideen wasn’t alone. RBS traders and their managers
routinely sought to influence the firm’s Libor submissions
between 2007 and 2010 to profit from derivatives bets, according
to employees, regulators and lawyers interviewed by  Bloomberg
News . Traders also communicated with counterparts at other firms
to discuss where rates should be set, one person said.  RBS, 81 percent owned by the British  government , is one of
at least a dozen banks being probed by regulators worldwide over
allegations that traders colluded to manipulate the benchmark
interest rate so they could profit from bets on interest-rate
derivatives.  Regulators are now probing RBS’s yen, Swiss franc and U.S.
dollar sales-and-trading businesses, all part of the fixed-
income division, said two people who asked not to be identified
because the bank’s internal investigation, begun more than two
years ago, is still in progress. Investigators are focusing on
the firm’s swaps, inflation-trading and foreign-exchange teams,
as well as on money-market traders who made daily Libor
submissions, the people said.  The process of setting rates was open to abuse because RBS
failed to establish guidelines until June 2011, four people
familiar with the business said. Managers encouraged rate-
setters to discuss Libor with traders across the company as a
way of ensuring the bank’s submissions reflected market
conditions, particularly after money markets froze in 2007, the
people said. These communications -- by e-mail, instant messages
and telephone -- are the focus of regulators’ probes.  David Greene, a senior partner at law firm Edwin Coe LLP in
London said this kind of activity “was widespread in the
industry” and a lot of traders didn’t consider it to be wrong.  For more, click here.  BofA’s Merrill Fined by Finra for Failing to Report Complaints  Bank of America Corp.  must pay a $500,000 fine for failing
to report complaints and lawsuits against stock brokers at
Merrill Lynch, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said.  Merrill Lynch didn’t tell Finra about more than 650 lapses,
keeping them off the records that investors use to research
advisers, the industry-funded regulator said on its website
yesterday. The brokerage failed to report any of about 300
lawsuits and arbitrations filed against brokers from 2007 to
2009, according to Finra.  Finra maintains records on its  website  that investors and
potential employers use to check the background of financial
advisers. Merrill Lynch’s lack of reporting may have made it
difficult for regulators to review transfers and investigate
complaints, Finra said.  In November 2009, about 10 months after Bank of America
bought Merrill Lynch, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank
told Finra that it had a backlog of complaints to investigate
and resolve, according to a  letter  on the regulator’s website.
Some of the reporting problems continued for the next two years.  “We have enhanced our policies and procedures to address
issues raised in this matter and to ensure that client
complaints are properly reported,”  Bill Halldin , a spokesman
for the bank, said in an interview. The bank didn’t admit or
deny wrongdoing, according to Finra’s statement.  Rothschild’s Bumi Probes ‘Irregularities’ at Bakrie Coal Company  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , the London-listed Indonesian coal venture founded
by  Nathaniel Rothschild , began a probe into alleged
irregularities at associated companies in the Asian country,
pushing the shares down as much as 39 percent.  The stock has lost more than half its value in the past
five days, or about $600 million. “An independent investigation
has been commissioned to investigate the allegations on an
urgent basis, and is to report to the board,” Bumi said in a
statement yesterday.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) , 29 percent-owned by Bumi
Plc, said it was unaware of the investigation.  The probe will focus on “extensive” development funds at
Bumi Resources and an asset in Berau Coal.  The probe is the latest development in a dispute involving
Rothschild and the Bakries, the Indonesian palm-oil-to-property
family empire founded in 1942.  EU Will Fine Microsoft Over Browser Choice, AFP Says  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s failure to comply with a settlement to
give users a choice of web browsers will result in a penalty,
Agence France-Presse reported, citing European Competition
Commissioner Joaquin Almunia.  Almunia didn’t give the size of fine, saying the commission
will “react in a very firm manner,” the news service reported.  Courts  Gruebel Brought ‘Change of Ethos’ UBS Head of Cash Equities Says  Phil Allison,  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s head of global cash equities, said
there was “a change of ethos” under former Chief Executive
Officer  Oswald Gruebel  that encouraged more risk taking at the
bank.  Gruebel pushed for more proprietary trading by the Zurich-
based bank and more risk to increase profits, Allison testified
today at the London fraud trial of former UBS trader Kweku
Adoboli.  Adoboli, 32, is charged with fraud and false accounting
over unauthorized trades on which UBS lost $2.3 billion. Gruebel
stepped down after the loss the bank attributed to Adoboli.  John DiBacco, who worked previously worked at the bank’s
New York office and had overseen the desk Adoboli worked on,
said in an interview after the trader’s arrest that he was
surprised by the size of the risks UBS’s London traders took.  “There was a lot of risk-taking happening in London that
was of a proprietary nature and not strictly for facilitation of
clients,” DiBacco had said, referring to trading with the
lender’s own money. “There is a culture that was risk-seeking
and not risk-averse.”  Ex-Snoras Bank Owner Sued by U.K. Prosecutors Over ‘Crime’ Money  Former Bankas Snoras AB owner  Vladimir Antonov  was sued by
U.K. prosecutors under a law used to confiscate crime proceeds,
while he challenges a related extradition case with Lithuania,
where he is wanted for fraud.  The lawsuit was discussed at a London court hearing
yesterday that was closed to the public after requests by
Antonov’s lawyer,  James Lewis , and the Crown Prosecution
Service.  Antonov, a Russian, and his Lithuanian business partner
Raimondas Baranauskas were detained in London in November after
Lithuanian authorities issued a European arrest warrant on
claims they forged documents and fixed accounts to siphon at
least 1.7 billion litas ($635 million) from the country’s third-
biggest bank by deposits, causing its collapse.  Snoras, based in Vilnius, filed a separate civil lawsuit in
Britain in May seeking a similar amount in damages, and won a
court order freezing Antonov’s assets. Antonov, accused of using
the money for luxury purchases, claims the cases may be
politically motivated.  The Crown Prosecution Service’s press office and Kevin
Gold, another lawyer for Antonov, didn’t immediately return
calls for comment about the case.  Interviews/Hearings  External Auditing Rules ‘Weak’ in Japan, Allen Says  Jamie Allen, Hong Kong-based secretary general of the Asian
Corporate Governance Association, talked about  Olympus Corp. (7733) ’s
accounting scandal, and corporate governance in Japan and Asia.  Former executives of Olympus, including Chairman Tsuyoshi
Kikukawa, admitted to roles in the fraud at a trial that began
at the Tokyo District Court yesterday. Allen spoke with Rishaad
Salamat on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia.”  For the video, click here.  Almunia Says Libor Fines May Increase Due to ‘Gravity’  European Union Competition  Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia ,
Chairman of the  International Organization of Securities
Commission  Board Masamichi Kono and Bloomberg LP Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Doctoroff  spoke at a European Parliament hearing
about the London interbank offered rate.  Finance Watch Secretary-General Thierry Philipponnat and
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Head of Government Affairs Joanna Cound also
spoke.  Among the topics discussed included the Libor
investigation, penalties for market abuse, and the target of
probes.  For the video, click here.  Mustafa Sees Basel III ‘Traps’ for 3,000 to 5,000 Banks  Kamal Mustafa, chief executive officer of Invictus
Consulting Group LLC, talked about the outlook for the U.S.
financial services industry and the potential impact of capital
requirement regulations on U.S. banks.  Mustafa spoke with  Erik Schatzker  and Scarlet Fu on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  German Lawmakers Should Reject Swiss Tax Accord, Says Grinberg  German lawmakers should vote against a tax agreement with
Switzerland because it won’t deter wealthy individuals from
hiding their money overseas, said Itai Grinberg, a law professor
at Georgetown University.  The bilateral accord signed last year would impose new
withholding taxes on Germans with accounts in Switzerland while
keeping their identities secret. Germany’s lawmakers have yet to
ratify the agreement due to take effect from 2013 amid
opposition from the Social Democratic Party.  Grinberg made the statements in a written  submission  to the
Parliament before a  hearing yesterday  in Berlin.  Grinberg favors building a global automatic information
exchange system through measures such as the U.S. Foreign
Account Tax Compliance Act, which requires banks to report
information on consenting American account holders directly to
the Internal Revenue Service. Switzerland  agreed  in June to
implement the FATCA legislation, while Swiss lawmakers also
voted this month to allow group requests for information on
Americans with cross-border accounts in the Alpine nation.  Those measures equate to automatic information exchange,
according to Grinberg.  Comings and Goings  Next BOE Governor Must Be Independent From Banks, Cable Says  U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable said the next Bank of
England governor must be independent of the banking system and
that he hasn’t heard of any bankers applying for the job.  Cable made the remarks in an interview at his Liberal
Democrat party’s annual conference yesterday in Brighton, on
England’s south coast. The successor to Mervyn King must be
someone “understanding the banking system but independent of it
and able to speak frankly where necessary.”  Asked if a banker could do the job, he said: “I don’t know
that there are any applying.”  Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
this month formally began his search to replace King, who steps
down in June. Former Bank of England Deputy Governor  John Gieve 
said on Sept. 12 that it would be “very difficult” for the
government to select a banker who had worked recently in light
of recent scandals tarnishing London’s financial center.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 