-- RBS Instant Messages Show Libor Rates Skewed for Traders
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n ,   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-09-26T16:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/rbs-instant-messages-show-libor-rates-skewed-for-traders.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
trader Tan Chi Min told colleagues the firm was able to move
global interest rates, according to court filings.  Transcripts of internal RBS instant messages were included
in a 231-page affidavit filed Sept. 19 by Tan, the bank’s former
Singapore-based head of delta trading for  Asia , who’s suing
Britain’s third-biggest lender by assets for wrongful dismissal
after being fired last year for allegedly trying to manipulate
the  London  interbank offered rate, or Libor.  “Nice Libor,” Tan said in an April 2, 2008, instant
message with traders including Neil Danziger, who also was fired
by RBS, and David Pieri. “Our six-month fixing moved the entire
fixing, hahahah.”  The conversations among traders at RBS and firms including
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  illustrate how the risk of abuse was embedded
in the process for setting Libor, the benchmark for more than
$300 trillion of securities worldwide. RBS, 81 percent owned by
the British government, is one of at least a dozen banks being
probed over allegations they colluded to manipulate the rate so
they could profit from bets on interest-rate derivatives.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest lender, was fined
290 million pounds ($470 million) in June for rigging the rate.
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chairman Marcus Agius
resigned in the aftermath. RBS fell 5.5 percent, or 14.9 pence,
to 255.10 pence in London trading today, making it the biggest
decliner in the six-member FTSE 350 Banks Index.  Singapore Suit  RBS sent Tan copies of instant-message chats he had with
others as evidence of potential wrongdoing in an Aug. 29, 2011,
letter telling him the bank was bringing disciplinary
proceedings against him, the papers show. Tan said in his
lawsuit, filed in December, that the bank had condoned the rates
manipulation and sought scapegoats in an internal probe.  The bank asked in a Sept. 24 filing that the Singapore High
Court seal the papers until at least one of the probes by the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Department of
Justice’s fraud division and Britain’s Financial Services
Authority is completed.  Making the documents publicly accessible may have
“extensive potential prejudice” on the confidential regulatory
investigations, RBS said in the filing. The court documents,
inspected yesterday, have now been sealed.  “Our investigations into submissions, communications and
procedures relating to the setting of Libor and other  interest
rates  are ongoing,” the bank said in an e-mail. “RBS and its
employees continue to cooperate fully with regulators.”  ‘Mixed Feelings’  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily on behalf
of the British Bankers’ Association that asks firms to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. The BBA signaled yesterday
it will give up oversight of the rate. The top and bottom
quartiles of quotes are excluded, and those left are averaged
and published for individual currencies before noon in London.
RBS is among 13 banks that set yen Libor.  “What’s the call on Libor,” Jezri Mohideen, then the
bank’s head of yen products in  Singapore , asked Danziger in an
Aug. 21, 2007, chat.  “Where would you like it, Libor that is,” Danziger asked,
according to a transcript included in Tan’s filings.  “Mixed feelings, but mostly I’d like it all lower so the
world starts to make a little sense,” another trader responded.  “The whole HF world will be kissing you instead of calling
me if Libor move lower,” Tan said, referring to hedge funds.  ‘Maybe More’  “OK, I will move the curve down 1 basis point, maybe more
if I can,” Danziger replied.  Danziger and Pieri declined to comment. Mohideen, who was
put in charge of the bank’s rates trading for  Europe  and the
Asia-Pacific region in 2010, didn’t respond to messages left on
his mobile telephone and his office.  In another conversation on March 27, 2008, Tan called for
RBS to raise its Libor submission, saying an earlier lower
figure the bank submitted may have cost his team 200,000 pounds.  “We need to bump it way up high, highest among all if
possible,” Tan said.  Tan also asked for a high submission in an Aug. 20, 2007,
instant message to Scott Nygaard, global head of RBS’s treasury
markets in London.  “We want high fix in 3s,” Tan said in the message. “Neil
is the one setting the yen Libor in London now and for this week
and next.”  “Go Neil,” Nygaard responded. “Hahahaha.”  More E-mails  Managers including Nygaard, Todd Morakis, the Singapore-
based head of trading for  emerging markets , who joined in June
2010, and Lee Knight, the Tokyo-based chief operating officer of
global trading, knew derivatives traders were making regular
requests to change rates, Tan said in his lawsuit. He’s seeking
to force RBS to release more e-mails that he says show the bank
condoned the activity.  Nygaard and Morakis declined to comment.  Knight said he didn’t believe that managers including
Mohideen, Nygaard or Morakis would have turned a blind eye if
they knew traders tried to influence the bank’s rate-setters,
according to minutes of an Oct. 17, 2011, meeting he had with an
RBS disciplinary manager cited in Tan’s filing. Knight didn’t
respond to phone and e-mail messages.  RBS traders also spoke about Libor with counterparts at
other firms, Tan’s filing shows.  ‘Cartel Now’  “It’s just amazing how Libor fixing can make you that much
money or lose if opposite,” Tan said on an Aug. 19, 2007,
conversation with traders at other banks, including Deutsche
Bank’s Mark Wong. “It’s a cartel now in London.”  “Must be damn difficult to trade man,” Wong replied.
“Especially you not in the loop.”  Michael Golden , a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, cited previous statements made by the company that it is
continuing its investigation into the matter and cooperating
with authorities. Golden said Wong declined to comment.  Tan started expressing misgivings about the Libor-setting
process in May 2011 as regulators began investigating potential
rate-rigging across the industry and RBS started its own
internal probe, the transcripts show.  “This whole process would make banks pull out of Libor
fixing,” Tan said in a May 16, 2011, chat with money markets
trader Andrew Smoler. “Question is what is illegal? If making
money if bank fix it to suits its own books are illegal... then
no point fixing it right? Cuz there will be days when we will
def make money fixing it.”  “Regulators need to be seen to be doing something but what
negative thing can come to this?” Smoler, who declined to
comment for this story, said according to the transcript.  The case is Tan Chi Min v The Royal Bank of  Scotland .
S939/2011. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  