-- Recruit Co. Agrees to Buy Indeed to Fuel U.S. Expansion
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-09-25T14:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/recruit-co-agrees-to-acquire-indeed-to-fuel-u-s-expansion.html
Recruit Co., a Japanese human-
resources company, agreed to acquire job-search website Indeed
Inc. to help it expand in the U.S.  Recruit Co., which had 807 billion yen ($10.4 billion) in
revenue in the year ended in March, will use Indeed as its
global system for online recruitment, said Rony Kahan, co-
founder of  Stamford , Connecticut-based Indeed. Both companies
are closely held, and terms of the deal weren’t disclosed.  Recruit’s purchase of Indeed is a vote for an advertising-
supported revenue model, Kahan said. Its approach contrasts with
that of  Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW) , where customers pay to post job
listings. Monster said earlier this year that it was considering
strategic alternatives, including an outright sale of the
business, though a buyer hasn’t emerged.  “This business model of including all the jobs, and having
companies pay via clicks on ads instead of by post, represents
the way the online recruitment industry is evolving,” Kahan
said. “Recruit wants to keep Indeed doing what it has been
doing.”  Indeed was backed by the  New York Times Co. (NYT) , Union Square
Ventures and Allen & Co. The New York Times said today in  a
regulatory filing  that it will record a gain of about $100
million after taxes from its stake.  Recruit Co. has been acquiring companies in an effort to
boost overseas sales to 50 percent of its total, compared with
about 4 percent now. The company is planning an initial public
offering as early as next year to help finance more deals.  Indeed will operate as a separate business unit of Recruit,
Kahan said. He and co-founder Paul Forster will stay with the 8-
year-old company.  At Monster, takeover speculation boosted the stock almost
50 percent earlier this year, after Chief Executive Officer
Salvatore Iannuzzi said he would consider a sale. The shares
drifted back down as a buyer failed to materialize. Monster
climbed 0.4 percent to $7.68 at 10:10 a.m. today in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  