-- Reed Smith, Freshfields, Edwards Wildman: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-25T15:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/reed-smith-freshfields-edwards-wildman-business-of-law.html
Reed Smith  LLP and Athens-based law
firm  Papapolitis & Papapolitis , which have worked together for
the last two years, announced they have made their relationship
official with a strategic alliance.  The firms expect to work together on the large projects and
transactions anticipated in Greece as a result of the economic
situation and ongoing structural reforms, Reed Smith said in a
statement.  Reed Smith has an office in Piraeus, Greece, that focuses
on shipping, life sciences, commercial disputes and corporate
matters. P&P, which lists 15 lawyers on its website, is known
for advising on banking, finance,  capital markets , corporate and
mergers and acquisitions, dispute resolution and real estate,
Reed Smith said.  “With this new alliance, we have an even stronger platform
in the Greek legal market and an ability to deal with even
larger and more complex projects serving our clients’ growing
needs,” said  John Reece , Reed Smith’s office managing partner
in Greece. “Our newly formalized strategic alliance will ensure
both firms are in an exceptional position to provide clients
with seamless expertise both locally in Greece and
internationally across  Europe , the  Middle East , Asia and the
 United States .”  John Papapolitis , managing partner of Papapolitis &
Papapolitis, said in a statement, “We have worked closely with
Reed Smith on a number of global finance and corporate matters,
as our clients increasingly look for legal advice regarding
their outbound investments. We are very pleased to now formalize
this relationship and look forward to further enhancing our
unique offering within the Greek market to both firms’ clients
through this alliance.”  Reed Smith has almost 1,700 lawyers in 23 offices in
Europe, the Middle East, Asia and the U.S.  News  U.K. Law Firm Partners Decline in Number, Financial Times Says  The U.K.’s economic troubles have brought a reduction in
the number of law firm partners for the first time since the
recession of 2008-09, the Financial Times reports, citing a
survey by Wilkins Kennedy, an accounting and advisory firm.  The number of partners fell by 153 to 33,662, in the year
to June 30. Younger lawyers find it harder to gain promotion by
bringing in new business, and older lawyers are putting off
retirement, the newspaper said.  If firms reduced the head count by 5 percent, in addition
to the 15 percent by which firms have already slimmed, they
might reach the same profitability they had before the
recession, according to the article.  For more,  click here.   Moves  Freshfields Adds to U.S. Litigation Team With Ex-S&C partner  Michael Lacovara, who represented Microsoft in its
antitrust case with the U.S., has joined  Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer LLP  as a partner in the U.S. litigation practice. He
returns to private practice after working in the financial
services field, most recently as chief executive officer and
president of securities trading and investment banking firm
Courview Capital, a portfolio company of  Warburg Pincus .  Lacovara was a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, where he
helped establish the firm’s Silicon Valley litigation practice.
He left to become a partner, general counsel, and co-chief
operating officer of investment bank Sandler O’Neill & Partners
LP in 2004. He also worked as chief executive officer of Rodman
and Renshaw.  “Michael is a highly respected trial lawyer and litigator,
with a stellar reputation for steering clients through complex
and highly publicized cases,” Julian Pritchard, Freshfields’
U.S. managing partner, said in a statement. “His experience
representing major clients in antitrust, tax, and commercial
litigation is a strong complement to the talent and capabilities
of our thriving U.S. practice, and will provide our clients with
yet another asset to help them navigate the current challenges
in their respective markets.”  Lacovara has litigation experience with complex commercial,
antitrust, tax and tort matters. His clients have included
financial services and technology firms such as Philips
Electronics Corp., Elf Aquitaine and UBS AG.  Freshfields’ U.S. litigation practice now has 13 partners,
among 77 lawyers. Freshfields Bruckhaus has more than 2,500
lawyers in 28 offices around the world.  Morgan Stanley’s Tuvi Keinan Joins Brown Rudnick in London  Brown Rudnick  LLP hired  Tuvi Keinan  as a partner in the
real estate and restructuring practices in the firm’s London
office. He was previously at Morgan Stanley where he was the
Head of European Real Estate Restructuring, and prior to that
the Chief Financial Officer responsible for cross jurisdiction
related financing, restructurings and hedging, as well as acting
as the U.K. Chief Investment Officer, the firm said.  Keinan’s practice includes cross border restructuring and
finance matters. His clients include private and public
companies as well as developers, high net worth individuals,
private equity and hedge funds, the firm said. His focus in the
last few years has been on origination of off market
opportunities associated with financial distress both equity and
debt.  “Tuvi is a highly regarded practitioner with a wide range
of experience in complex and sophisticated finance and
restructuring matters,” said Brown Rudnick Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Joseph F. Ryan. “With his global expertise
extending to such places as the U.S., Europe, and  emerging
markets  in the Middle East and Asia, Tuvi brings to the firm a
unique skill-set in cross-border transactions.”  Brown Rudnick has 200 lawyers in seven offices in the U.S.
and the U.K.  Former DOJ Official Joins Edwards Wildman in Boston  The law firm Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP announced that  Mark
L. Josephs  is a new partner in the firm’s white collar and
government enforcement practice group in  Boston . He was most
recently at the  U.S. Department of Justice , where he was the
assistant director of the Consumer Protection Branch.  Josephs will focus on complex health care and financial-
fraud criminal and civil enforcement cases. As a litigator, he
has experience in the  health care industry , including the Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act, Medicare, and other health care statutes
and regulations, the firm said. He also has experience in
litigation involving government contracts and the  False Claims
Act .  Edwards Wildman has 650 lawyers at 14 offices in the U.S.,
 Tokyo  and an associated office in Hong Kong.  Interviews  Attorney Nadel Discusses SEC Scrutiny of Private Equity  Steven Nadel, a partner at the law firm of  Seward & Kissel
LLP  in New York, talked about the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s review of the  private-equity  industry.  The SEC is seeking to determine whether some private-equity
firms are taking more profits from investments than they should
under agreements with fund clients, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter. Nadel spoke with Deirdre Bolton on
Bloomberg Television’s “Money Moves.”  For the video, click here.  Verdicts  Rajaratnam Case Cooperator Goel Gets Two Years of Probation  Rajiv Goel, the former Wharton classmate who testified
against Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, was
sentenced to probation for his role in the biggest hedge fund
insider-trading scandal in U.S. history.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones declined to impose a
prison term on Goel, 54, yesterday in Manhattan federal court.
Goel, who faced as long as 25 years in prison, was crucial to
the prosecution of Rajaratnam, now serving an 11-year prison
term following his conviction last year, government and defense
lawyers said. Two other key witnesses against Rajaratnam
received sentences of two years of probation.  “Goel substantially helped the government secure a
conviction in one of the most significant and high-profile
insider-trading cases in U.S. history,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
Reed Brodsky said in a memo this month to Jones.  Goel, a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  treasury group managing director
who was arrested with Rajaratnam in October 2009, pleaded guilty
in February 2010 to conspiracy and  securities fraud . Goel
testified over four days at Rajaratnam’s trial about their 25-
year friendship, which began when they attended the Wharton
School of the  University of Pennsylvania . He said he conspired
with Rajaratnam from 2007 to 2009 and passed him illegal tips
about Intel.  “Goel testified against one of his closest friends who had
provided him with substantial financial assistance over many
years,” Brodsky wrote. “Although Goel did not express it or
complain about it, he had to overcome the emotional aspect of
providing assistance and trial testimony that helped demonstrate
his close friend was guilty of multiple counts of securities
fraud.”  Goel’s lawyer, David Zornow, of Skadden Arps Slate Meagher
& Flom LLP, urged Jones to impose a term of probation, saying
his client’s reputation was ruined as a result of his
involvement in the case and that he has been unable to find work
since he lost his job at Intel after his 2009 arrest.  “Goel was not even close to Rajaratnam’s criminal
league,” and was instead “corrupted and manipulated” by the
 fund manager  into committing crimes in part because of “a
weakness for getting drawn into long conversations,” Zornow
said in his memo to the court.  The defense attorney also said Goel “had lived a life free
of crime until he started providing Rajaratnam with inside
information.”  The case is U.S. v. Goel, 1:10-cr-00090, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Trials  J&J Hid Risks Risperdal Causes Breasts in Boys, Jurors Told  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  officials knew the antipsychotic drug
Risperdal could cause boys to grow female breasts and hid those
risks from doctors and patients, a lawyer for a Texas teen-ager
suing the company told a jury.  J&J executives knew Risperdal could cause increased hormone
levels that prompted female breast development in males and
trained salespeople to downplay or hide that fact in marketing
calls on doctors, Bob Hilliard, a lawyer for Andrew Bentley,
told a state-court jury in Philadelphia in the first case over
the claims to go to trial.  “A drug that was never meant for kids was illegally
marketed to kids,” Hilliard said in opening statements
yesterday. “Johnson & Johnson knew about this side effect, did
not warn about it and actually covered up evidence about it.”  Bentley’s case is one of about 420 lawsuits against J&J and
its Janssen unit that allege personal injuries caused by
Risperdal, the company said in a regulatory filing last month.
The teen was able to bring his case in  Pennsylvania  because J&J
has operations in the state.  J&J’s lawyer countered yesterday that Bentley’s breast
development was normal for a teen going through puberty and
Risperdal played no role in it.  Bentley’s breast growth “was totally consistent with” the
idea that the teen developed breasts as part of puberty, Laura
Smith, one of the company’s attorneys, told the jury. She said
that the company denied illegally marketing the drug.  The 17-year-old Houston resident claims he took Risperdal
to treat problems related to  Asperger’s Syndrome  during times
when federal regulators hadn’t approved the drug for use in
children, according to court filings. His lawyers argue J&J
illegally marketed the pills to rack up more than $1 billion in
sales.  The case is A.B., a minor v. Janssen Pharmaceuticals,
00649, Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas, January Term 2010.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  