-- Rehn Urges End to Doubts about Euro’s Sustainability
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-09-25T22:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/rehn-urges-end-to-doubts-about-euro-s-sustainability.html
Europe needs to strengthen the
foundations of the euro and “remove all doubts as to its
sustainability,” the European Union’s economy chief said today.  “We cannot expect the euro area to transform itself into a
full fiscal union overnight,” EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in a speech today at  Harvard
University  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  “Far-reaching decisions need to be allowed time to be
appropriately reflected upon, debated and agreed in a way that
is fully legitimate, especially considering the complex
democratic construction that is the European Union,” Rehn said.  Europe’s economic outlook is weakening as the region’s
policy makers strive to end the three-year debt crisis. Euro-
area surveys on Sept. 20 showed that services and manufacturing
output fell to a 39-month low in September, adding to evidence
the economy is heading for a recession. Still, U.S Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today that Europe is in a
“much better position” than it was three to nine months ago.  Rehn said the European Union is “here to stay,” and a
fiscal union would require strong democratic institutions to
ensure the necessary checks and balances. He acknowledged that
the “macroeconomic outlook is still bleak.”  Bond-Buying  To ensure that the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying
interventions help reduce bond yields in a lasting manner, Rehn
said they would be “available only to countries that pursue
sound budgetary policies and address macroeconomic imbalances,”
based on the EU’s country-specific recommendations adopted in
July. Rehn said such conditionality requires “specific policy
objectives and a clear timeline.”  Rehn, answering audience questions after the speech, said
he does not envisage “further debt restructuring” for Greece.  “But I would not want to dwell too deep on the Greek
program now because we have our mission partly on the ground,
partly now at headquarters and soon returning back to  Athens  to
continue the talks,” Rehn said. “They are at a very sensitive
moment.”  Greece  has received 240 billion euros ($310 billion) in aid
pledges in a pair of bailout packages. Investors took losses in
a debt exchange this year, losing 53.5 percent of the face value
of their holdings and reducing the country’s debt by about 100
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  