-- Reliance Industries Said Likely to Bid for Spectrum
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   S a n t o s h   K u m a r
-- 2012-09-26T11:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/reliance-industries-said-likely-to-bid-for-spectrum.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  is likely
to bid for Indian mobile-phone spectrum in November as
billionaire  Mukesh Ambani  seeks to complement his broadband
business, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Reliance, India’s  most-valuable  company, was among the
potential bidders at a meeting in  New Delhi  with the Department
of Telecommunications, which will open the application process
for second-generation airwaves starting Sept. 28, the person
said, asking not to be identified because the details aren’t
public. The auction of licenses, canceled in February after an
investigation into their sale in 2008, must begin by Nov. 12.  Entering the auction would mark Ambani’s first foray into
India’s mobile-voice services, the world’s largest market after
 China , since handing over the business to his brother, Anil,
when they broke up  India ’s second-biggest industrial group in
2005. The licenses would supplement the broadband Internet
services Reliance plans to offer with the fourth-generation
spectrum it purchased two years ago.  “In India you do need to have a basic 2G voice service to
attract customers,” said Naveen Kulkarni, an analyst at MF
Global Sify Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai. “Customers want a
one-stop solution, they want a vendor who can provide them all
kinds of services. If an operator only offers 4G data services
he may not be able to amass a sizable customer base in the
current environment.”  A telephone call and e-mail to Reliance’s corporate
communications department weren’t answered. The company’s  shares 
rose 0.6 percent to 844.75 rupees in Mumbai trading.  Corruption Scandal  The telecommunications department must allocate the
spectrum by Jan. 11, India’s  Supreme Court  said in an Aug. 27
ruling. The government faces being charged with contempt of
court if the schedule isn’t met, the judges said.  The nation’s highest court canceled the 2G licenses after
sales of the permits in 2008 sparked India’s biggest corruption
probe, leading to the jailing of the former telecommunications
minister. India’s auditor said in 2010 the sale of the airwaves
lacked transparency and ineligible bidders bought them at
“unbelievably low” prices, denying the treasury of as much as
$31 billion.  The Indian joint ventures of  Telenor ASA (TEL) ,  Emirates
Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  and  Russia ’s AFK Sistema lost their
licenses.  Spectrum Auctions  Existing operators will be allowed to buy as many as two
blocks of 1.25 megahertz each in the auction of 1,800 megahertz
spectrum for global system for mobile communications, or GSM,
networks, according to Department of Telecommunications
 guidelines  released July 3. Most of India’s second-generation
network is GSM.  New entrants will be required to bid for a minimum of four
blocks each of 1.25 megahertz.  In the auction of spectrum in the 800 megahertz band, used
by operators that run code division multiple access, of CDMA,
networks, three blocks of 1.25 megahertz each will be sold.  Companies that had their licenses canceled are allowed to
participate.  Idea Cellular Ltd. (IDEA) , India’s fourth largest operator
by subscribers, is still evaluating whether it will bid for
airwaves in seven telecom zones where its licenses were
canceled, Managing Director Himanshu Kapania said last month.  India’s cabinet decided on Aug. 4 that operators will have
to pay a minimum of 140 billion rupees to buy wireless spectrum
in the 1,800 megahertz band.  At that price, “there is no business case” for Idea to
bid, Kapania said. Idea has 6.5 million to 7 million subscribers
in areas with the canceled licenses.  ’Forging Relationships’  Reliance, which operates the world’s largest refining
complex, started moving back into telecommunications in June
2010 when it agreed to pay 48 billion rupees ($896 million) for
control of Infotel Broadband Services Ltd. That deal came hours
after Infotel bid 128.5 billion rupees for wireless broadband
Internet licenses across India.  Reliance is preparing for an entry into the 4G data
services market with an “asset-light approach” and by
“forging relationships with global players,” it said in a
presentation to investors last year.  Under a 2005 agreement, Mukesh Ambani, 55, kept the
family’s petrochemicals, oil and gas units and  Anil Ambani , 53,
got the power, telecommunications, financial services and
entertainment units. The brothers said in May 2010 they were
scrapping an accord not to expand into each other’s businesses.  Anil’s  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , India’s third-largest
mobile-phone company, on Aug. 11 reported first-quarter profit
that missed analysts’  estimates  as rising competition and
finance costs squeezed margins.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  