-- ResCap Creditors Seek Bondholder Collateral Claim Probe
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-09-25T19:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/rescap-creditors-seek-bondholder-collateral-claim-probe.html
Creditors of bankrupt Residential
Capital LLC asked a judge to let them probe, and possibly sue,
bondholder trustees  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  U.S. Bank  NA, a move
the creditors say could net “hundreds of millions” of dollars.  When the mortgage company filed bankruptcy in May, it
boosted the declared amount of collateral backing bondholder
claims by $1.1 billion, to assets worth about $2.4 billion, the
official committee of unsecured creditors said yesterday in
court papers. ResCap, as the company is known, thus waived its
right to challenge the bondholders’ claims to the collateral,
creditors said.  “This is a classic situation in which a creditors’
committee is the only independent fiduciary that can properly
act for the estates,” the panel said in court papers.  The collateral in dispute includes “restricted cash
accounts” containing $39 million, the creditors’ committee said
in its 785-page filing.  ResCap, based in  New York , filed for bankruptcy with plans
to sell most of its assets and to resolve legal claims related
to mortgage-backed securities.  Unsecured Creditors  Reducing the amount of collateral backing the bonds might
free up money that could go to unsecured creditors.  Nicole Garrison-Sprenger, a spokeswoman for U.S. Bank,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail requesting comment on
the filing.  Lisa Westermann , a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo,
declined to comment immediately.  ResCap’s 9 5/8 percent bonds due in 2015 rose more than 2
percent to 103.3 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  The bankruptcy case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-
12020,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 