-- Richmond Fed Manufacturing Survey for September (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-09-25T14:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/richmond-fed-manufacturing-survey-for-september-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s manufacturing sector activity
survey for September.  Regional Surveys of Business Activity  Overview  Manufacturing activity in the central Atlantic region firmed
somewhat in September, following three months of contraction,
according to the Richmond Fed’s latest survey. The seasonally
adjusted index of overall activity edged higher as positive
readings for shipments and new orders offset the negative
reading for employment. Modest improvement was also evident in
most other indicators. Capacity utilization turned positive,
while backlogs and delivery times remained negative but improved
from their August readings. Moreover, raw materials inventories
grew at a slightly slower pace, while growth in finished goods
was unchanged.  Looking ahead, assessments of business prospects for the next
six months were more optimistic in September. Contacts at more
firms anticipated that shipments, new orders, backlogs, capacity
utilization, and vendor lead-times would grow more quickly in
the months ahead.  Survey assessments of current prices revealed that growth in raw
material prices grew more quickly, while finished goods prices
grew more slowly. Over the next six months, respondents expected
growth in both raw materials and finished goods prices to grow
at a much slower pace than they had anticipated a month earlier.  Current Activity  In September, the seasonally adjusted composite index of
manufacturing activity--our broadest measure of manufacturing--
gained thirteen points to 4 from August’s reading of -9. Among
the index’s components, shipments rose eight points to 9, new
orders picked up twenty-seven points to end at 7, and the jobs
index held steady at -5.  Most other indicators also suggested modest improvement. The
index for capacity utilization turned positive, picking up
twelve points to 3, and the backlogs of orders index increased
sixteen points to end at -9. Additionally, the delivery times
index added three points to -1, while our gauges for inventories
were mixed in September. The raw materials inventory index fell
seven points to finish at 17, while the finished goods inventory
index was unchanged at 18.  Employment  Labor market activity changed little at Fifth District
factories. The manufacturing employment index held steady at -5,
while the average workweek indicator gained six points to -5.
Moreover, the wage index rose three points to 6.  Expectations  In the current survey, contacts were generally more optimistic
about their business prospects than they reported a month ago.
The index of expected shipments inched up three points to 20 and
the new orders index increased nine points to finish at 26.
Backlogs moved up ten points to 16, and capacity utilization
edged up two points to 23. Vendor lead-time picked up eight
points to 13, while the index for planned  capital expenditures 
lost eight points to 2.  Fifth District manufacturers’ hiring plans were mixed in
September. The expected manufacturing employment index lost
seven points to finish at 1, while the average workweek
indicator changed little, adding one point to 11. The index of
expected wages rose one point to end at 21.  Prices  District manufacturers reported that raw materials prices
increased at an average annual rate of 1.42 percent compared
with August’s reading of 1.32 percent. Finished goods prices
rose at a 0.44 percent pace, slightly lower than August’s
reading of 0.51 percent.  Looking ahead, respondents on average expected that the prices
they pay will advance at a 1.33 percent pace, notably below
August’s reading of 2.78 percent. Contacts looked for finished
goods prices to increase at a 0.11 percent annual rate, also
markedly below last month’s 2.04 percent pace.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  