-- Richmond Fed Service Firm Survey for September (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-09-25T14:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/richmond-fed-service-firm-survey-for-september-text-.html
The following is the text from the
Richmond Federal Reserve Bank’s service sector activity survey
for September.  Regional Surveys of Business Activity  Overview  Service sector activity picked up moderately in September,
according to the latest survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond. Strengthening revenues at non-retail services firms
and a modest increase in retail sales pushed the broad sector
revenues higher. Although cumulative retail sales edged up, big-
ticket sales weakened; in addition, retail inventories grew more
quickly this month. Shopper traffic remained nearly flat for a
second month. Looking ahead, survey participants expected demand
to continue to strengthen during the coming six months.  On the employment front, the number of retail employees and
average retail wages dropped sharply. At non-retail services
firms, hiring tapered off, while average wage increases
intensified.  Prices increased at a restrained pace in the overall service
sector in September, as both retail and non-retail prices rose
more slowly. Looking to the six months ahead, survey
participants expected prices in the broad service sector to
climb at a quicker pace.  Overall Service Sector Conditions  Revenues in the broad service sector regained ground in
September, with the index rising seventeen points to 11. In
contrast, hiring declined, pulling that index to -2 from last
month’s reading of 4. Average wages increased at non-retail
services providers and fell sharply at retail establishments,
leaving the overall index at 8―two points below last month’s
reading. Survey participants remained optimistic in their
outlook for the next six months, with that index tacking on two
points to end at 9 this month.  Retail  Retail sales ticked up in September, holding the index at 3 for
a second month. Big-ticket sales weakened, although the gauge
declined by less this month. The index settled at -3, compared
to the August reading of -16. Shopper traffic was little
changed, at 1 in September from -1. However, inventory
accumulation rose to an indicator of 23, eighteen points above
the August survey index. Retailers were mildly upbeat in their
outlook for the next six months, drawing that index up four
points from a month earlier to 5.  Retail employment retrenchment was widespread. The index for the
number of retail employees fell abruptly to -33 from last
month’s flat reading of 0. In addition, average retail wages
collapsed, with that index losing twenty-eight points to end the
survey period at -24.  Services-Providing Firms  Revenues accelerated at services-providing firms, pushing the
index to 12 from the August reading of -6. Although the number
of employees at non-retail services firms increased more slowly
than a month earlier, average wages maintained upward momentum.
The gauge for employment settled at 2, following the August
indicator of 5, and the indicator for average wages picked up a
point, finishing at 12.  Services providers looked for improved business prospects in the
six months ahead, with that index ending one point below last
month’s mark at 7.  Prices  Overall service sector prices slowed in September, rising at an
annualized 1.08 percent rate, compared to last month’s 1.15
percent pace. Separately, retail prices moved up at a 1.29
percent annualized pace following the August rate of 1.70
percent. Services providers’ prices advanced at an annualized
0.99 percent rate; in August, price change in that sub-sector
occurred at a 1.02 percent rate.  For the six months ahead, survey participants expected prices to
rise by 1.50 percent annually, whereas last month, they looked
for prices to rise at a 1.54 percent clip. Retail merchants
anticipated prices would generally maintain the current pace in
the six months ahead, for an outlook of 1.26 percent growth. A
month ago, they expected future price change of 1.18 percent.
Among services providers, the outlook was for 1.52 percent
growth in prices over the next six months. In August, the
expectation was for 1.66 percent.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  