-- Romney Intensifies Campaign in Ohio as Polls Show Obama Lead
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-09-26T20:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/romney-urges-more-reliance-on-free-enterprise-to-aid-nations.html
With early voting starting next
week in the battleground state of  Ohio , both presidential
candidates courted voters there today with greater urgency,
using a sport legend and  China  trade to make their cases.  Mitt Romney  showcased his celebrity support, including
golfing legend  Jack Nicklaus , while President  Barack Obama 
campaigned on a college campuses where he urged students to
register and to take advantage of early voting, which in Ohio
begins next week.  Romney, 65, is ramping up his schedule as he tries to tamp
down complaints from some Republican leaders that he has spent
too much time raising money. With two new polls showing Obama
ahead in Ohio, Romney returned to his economic message during
his two-day bus tour of the state, which started yesterday and
includes three events today.  “We can’t afford four more years like the last four
years,” Romney said during his second stop of the day, at a
spring-wire manufacturing plant in the Cleveland suburb of
Bedford Heights. “We’ve got to get this economy going again.”  Obama, 51, kept up his attacks on Romney’s economic plans
as he addressed a mostly college-age crowd of about 5,500 people
at  Bowling Green  State University in Ohio’s northwestern
section.  He again used Romney’s words, revealed in a video recorded
at a fundraiser, that 47 percent of voters view themselves as
victims who are dependent on government help.  No ‘Victims’  “As I look out on this crowd I don’t see a lot of victims,
I see hard-working Ohioans,” Obama said. “We don’t believe in
the government helping those who won’t help themselves. But we
do believe in opportunity.”  A  Washington  Post  poll  released yesterday showed Obama
leading in the state among likely voters, 52 percent to 44
percent. The survey showed 36 percent of all Ohio voters say
they have been contacted by the Obama campaign, while 29 percent
said that of Romney.  The Quinnipiac University/ New York  Times/CBS News poll
released today gave Obama a 53 percent to 43 percent advantage
in Ohio, including a 25-percentage-point lead among women.  “The field is looking like it’s narrowing for them,”  Jen Psaki , an Obama re-election spokeswoman told reporters on Air
Force One traveling to Ohio. “We’d rather be us than them.”  Ohio Prize  After  Florida , where polls show Obama with a small lead,
Ohio is the second-largest state among the 10 or so that
strategists from both parties say will decide the election. No
Republican has won the White House without carrying Ohio, which
has 18 of the 270 Electoral College votes needed. Today marked
Obama’s 13th visit to the state this year.  One of Romney’s challenges in making his case is that
Ohio’s unemployment rate in August was 7.2 percent, lower than
the  national figure  of 8.1 percent.  Obama, Romney and their allies aired more than 29,000 ads
on Ohio television stations in the 30-day period ended Sept. 17,
the most in any state.  Appearing with Romney today in Westerville, a suburb of
Columbus, was Nicklaus, 72, an Ohio native known as the Golden
Bear by his fans. He told the crowd that he likes the Republican
nominee because of his free-market views.  “I didn’t lean on someone else in tough times,” he said
of his golf game. “And when I won, I certainly didn’t apologize
for my success.”  At the manufacturing plant in Bedford Heights, Romney was
joined by Mike Rowe, best known as the host of the “Dirty
Jobs” series on the  Discovery Channel .  China Trade  Romney, as part of his criticism of Obama’s record, said
the president has been too lenient in dealing with China on
trade issues.  “They’ve artificially held down the value of their
currency, and by doing that the prices of their goods are
artificially low,” Romney said. “And that’s why one thing I
will do from day one is label China a currency manipulator. They
must not steal jobs.”  Obama sought to counter his challenger, telling his
audience at Bowling Green that the claim by the onetime private
equity executive that he would get tough on trade with China is
“just not credible.”  “He says he’s going to take the fight to them,” Obama
said. “It sounds better than talking about all the years he
spent profiting from companies that sent our jobs to China.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  earlier told
reporters on Obama’s plane that “this president, the secretary
of the Treasury and every high-level official who meets with
their Chinese counterparts presses the Chinese” on the currency
issue.  ‘Not Enough’  “We have seen some improvement on the currency situation,
but not enough,” Carney said.  The U.S. had a $295 billion trade deficit with China last
year, an 8.2 percent increase over 2010. A report last month by
the  Economic Policy Institute  in Washington said the imbalance
between the world’s two largest economies has resulted in the
loss of 2.7 million U.S. jobs in the past decade.  Allowing the  yuan  to appreciate would make Chinese goods
more expensive for American consumers than they are now,
reducing U.S. imports of the merchandise. The currency has
advanced 0.7 percent against the dollar this month, the most
since December 2011.|  The two candidates spoke at about the same time and are
scheduled to do so again later today from opposite side of the
state. Obama will appear at Kent State University in eastern
Ohio as Romney speaks in Toledo.  Battle for Votes  Romney and his aides said that even with Obama’s lead in
polls, it’s too early to dismiss the Republican’s chances in
Ohio.  “We trust our internal polls,”  Rich Beeson , Romney’s
political director, told reporters on Romney’s campaign plane.
“I don’t make any campaign decisions based on what I read in
the Washington Post.”  Beeson said Obama’s campaign is displaying excess
confidence, like a U.S. football player who celebrates before
crossing into the end-zone for a score.  “They are sort of spiking the ball at the 30-yard line
right now,” he said. “There are still 42 days to go. We are,
by any stretch, inside the margin of error in Ohio.”  Romney is seeking to rebound from the political damage
caused by the release last week of the secretly recorded video
in which he told donors that 47 percent of Americans feel
victimized and entitled to federal help and aren’t likely to
support his candidacy.  Asked about those comments in a CNN interview yesterday,
Romney said he is “overwhelmingly committed to helping every
American,” especially those “ in the middle and at the bottom
that are struggling in the Obama economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Bedford Heights, Ohio, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Toledo, Ohio, at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  