-- San Jose Pensions to Enlist Hedge Funds With $730 Million
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-09-25T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/san-jose-pensions-to-enlist-hedge-funds-with-730-million.html
Two pension plans in  San Jose ,
 California , are poised to make their initial foray into
investing in  hedge funds  by deploying $730 million to improve
returns.  The City of San Jose’s Police and Fire Department
Retirement Plan and the Federated City Employees’ Retirement
System seek to invest in 15 to 20 hedge funds in the next six to
12 months, according to Sean Bill, a trustee on the police and
fire system’s board. The pension funds’ investment committees
hold joint meetings each month and coordinate their activities
where possible, he said in a telephone interview.  The pension funds will first search for multistrategy
funds, according to Bill. San Jose staff and the pensions’
consultant, London-based Albourne Partners Ltd., have met with
35 managers and may recommend initial investments as early as
October, he said. They will eventually seek to add relative
value, event-driven, long-short equity and macro funds.  “One of the challenges that the pension world is facing is
lower projected future returns across asset classes,” Bill
said. “We are looking for managers that offer superior risk-
adjusted returns that are not highly correlated with our core
equity and fixed-income holdings.”  Event-driven funds seek to capitalize on special situations
such as corporate takeovers, long-short managers bet on and
against stocks and  macro strategists  try to profit from
macroeconomic trends. Multistrategy funds can employ these and
other approaches.  Minimizing Risk  The initial allocation to each manager selected is expected
to be about $50 million, Bill said.  The pension plans seek to create a diversified, global
portfolio, he said. They are looking for managers that are
uncorrelated to traditional market indexes and that will provide
low portfolio risk to minimize losses in falling markets.  The pensions are targeting a return of Libor plus 5
percentage points for the absolute-return portfolios, with
annualized volatility of 4 percent to 11 percent.  The Police and Fire Department plan has $2.8 billion in
assets and is 80 percent funded, Bill said. Federated City
Employees has $1.8 billion and is 69 percent funded. The plans
cover a combined 10,600 active and retired workers and
survivors.  Bill was appointed to the Police and Fire Department’s
board in December 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  