-- Santander Surges on First Day After Offering: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-09-26T20:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/santander-mexico-share-offering-said-to-price-at-31-25-pesos.html
Grupo Financiero Santander  Mexico 
SAB, the bank that carried out the nation’s biggest share
offering, surged in its first trading day after the sale.  Santander Mexico  climbed  to 33.41 pesos at the close in
Mexico City, an increase of 6.9 percent from yesterday’s pricing
of 31.25 pesos. The price range proposed in the prospectus was
for 29 pesos to 33.50 pesos a share. The offering was carried
out in Mexico and the U.S.  The sale of as much as $4.09 billion in shares is part of
efforts by  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s biggest bank and
Santander Mexico’s parent, to bolster capital amid real estate
losses. Chairman  Emilio Botin  has said that the firm plans to
list its biggest units within the next five years.  “Mexico has a lot of room” to increase banking
penetration, said Luis Rodriguez, an analyst at Casa de Bolsa
Finamex SAB in Guadalajara, Mexico. The stock was sold at “a
fair price, and the number of bids was very high, meaning
there’s appetite.”  The transaction will raise between 2.77 billion euros
($3.56 billion) and 3.18 billion euros, depending on how a so-
called green-shoe option is exercised, Santander said in a
statement sent today by e-mail. The deal valued the unit at
12.78 billion euros, according to the bank. Santander said Sept.
4 it would seek to raise as much as 3.41 billion euros by
selling as much as 24.9 percent of its Mexican unit.  Order Demand  The offering attracted about $20 billion in orders, two
people with knowledge of the deal said. It received requests for
about 4.8 times as many shares as were offered, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the terms are still
private.  Santander participated as an underwriter on both the
international and Mexican share sales. UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG,
and Bank of America Corp. served as global coordinators while
Barclays Plc, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Canada
were joint bookrunners, according to the filings.  The local units of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, HSBC
Plc and Citigroup helped underwrite the Mexican secondary
offering along with Santander itself.  Marcos Martinez Gavica, chief executive officer of the
bank, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television from  New
York  that the company plans to accelerate growth in Mexico after
the share offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  