-- Scene Last Night: Staley Faces Whale, Stoudemire Hits Met
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-09-25T21:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/scene-last-night-jp-morgan-s-staley-faces-squid-whale.html
The irony of speaking to 600 guests
beneath a 94-foot replica of a blue whale at the  American Museum
of Natural History  was not lost on  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
investment-banking chairman Jes Staley.  Staley’s division is busy unwinding trades that lost $5.8
billion in the first half of this year and were executed by the
so-called London whale, a U.K.-based trader in JPMorgan’s Chief
Investment Office.  “I’ve had to sit here all night staring at a whale,”
Staley said last night, a few hours into a gala for the NYU
Langone Medical Center’s Hospital for Joint Diseases and Center
for Musculoskeletal Care. He was accepting an award for
corporate leadership.  Staley then suggested the whale could be replaced with the
squid in the room, which, he clarified afterward, meant  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , represented by his friend Gary D. Cohn,
chairman of the dinner and the hospital’s advisory board.
Rolling Stone writer Matt Taibbi called Goldman a “vampire
squid.”  All this took place about 20 feet from a diorama depicting
a battle between a sperm whale and a giant squid. Which creature
will triumph is unclear, though squid have been found in whales’
stomachs.  That bit of actual marine science, as opposed to financial-
industry marine metaphors, came into play in the next speech
from Cohn, who cast off any hint of competition.  “The only squid in the room is over there,” Cohn said.
“I’ve never been so comfortable in a roomful of JPMorgan people
in my life.”  Safe Setting  Certainly the JPMorgan folks -- who included Mary Callahan Erdoes, CEO of asset management, as well as Phil Di Iorio and
John Duffy -- were in a safe setting. The president of the
museum, Ellen Futter, is on JPMorgan’s board, where one of her
roles has been overseeing risk management. She also sat on
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s compliance and governance
committee, resigning in 2008.  Cohn and Staley both said their comments were “all in good
fun” -- and with good effect: The event raised $1.4 million for
the hospital.  The speeches came after dinner, which consisted of a salad
with goat cheese and roasted pine nuts, and Espelette-glazed
hanger steak with parsnip puree, Swiss chard, baby carrots and
purple cauliflower.  Staley and Cohn were seated together with their wives,
Debora, who wore a red lace dress, and Lisa, who wore a sequined
skirt.  Home Depot  Also at their table was  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  co-founder Kenneth Langone, who is chairman of the NYU Langone Medical Center. He
was among a few dozen investors invited to attend a special
analyst meeting at JPMorgan’s headquarters when it disclosed its
losses during a second-quarter earnings announcement on July 13.
Afterward on that day he told Bloomberg Television that JPMorgan
is “one of the best-run companies.”  Staley said he met Langone through  Stanley Druckenmiller ,
whom Staley knows through their alma mater, Bowdoin College.  Another guest was Staley’s brother, Peter, the subject of
the documentary film, “How to Survive a Plague,” about his
living with AIDS.  Early in the evening, Cohn had a post-op exam from Keith
Raskin, the doctor who performed surgery on his thumb.  “He’s back and texting with greater ability than ever
before,” Raskin said.  Cohn took out his BlackBerry and demonstrated his double-
thumb typing.  Met’s ‘Amore’  Last night the  Metropolitan Opera  raised $6.2 million at
its opening-night gala, which consisted of about six hours of
entertainment.  First came the premiere of a new production of Donizetti’s
“L’Elisir d’Amore” starring  Anna Netrebko  and Matthew
Polenzani.  Afterward, 1,200 guests showed off long gowns and shiny
black ties in a tent used earlier this month for  New York 
Fashion Week.  “My goodness, don’t trust elixirs,” Zac Posen said as he
entered the supper with two models wearing his creations.  Patrick Stewart  had another take on the opera. “Alcohol is
good for you, generally,” he said.  “Darling, that’s good,” Stewart’s girlfriend, Sunny
Ozell, added.  ‘Soothing Thing’  New York Knicks basketball player Amar’e Stoudemire said he
listens to opera on his 40-minute drive to practice.  “Music is always such a soothing thing, especially opera
and jazz,” Stoudemire said sitting with his wife at a table
brightened by sunflowers.  The scenery for dinner was intended to evoke the Italian-
market setting of the opera. Umbrellas and large shafts of wheat
on pillars were placed throughout the room.  “It’s all very fecund, as it should be. It has a sense of
fertility,” said  Bartlett Sher , the opera’s director, seated at
a long banquet table in the center of the room.  The evening coincided with the birthday of fund manager
Willem Kooyker, chairman, CEO and founder of Blenheim Capital
Management LLC. Kooyker’s wife, Judith-Ann Corrente, underwrote
the entire cost of the production.  “It’s my 70th birthday,” Kooyker said. As to his youthful
look, he explained, “I’ve been coming to the opera for 46
years.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include:  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on country
matters.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 