-- Seahawks Beat Packers 14-12 on Controversial Final-Play Score
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-25T05:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/seahawks-beat-packers-14-12-on-controversial-final-play-score.html
The  Seattle Seahawks  defeated the
 Green Bay  Packers 14-12 on a controversial final-play touchdown,
the first game directly decided by the  National Football
League ’s replacement officials.  With the Seahawks trailing 12-7 on a fourth-down play from
the Packers’ 24-yard line, quarterback Russell Wilson lofted a
pass into the end zone that was grabbed by Green Bay’s M.D.
Jennings. As the Packers safety brought the ball to his chest,
Seahawks receiver Golden Tate reached in and grabbed a hold of
the ball as both players fell to the ground.  One replacement official ruled it a touchdown for the
Seahawks while a second standing behind the play gave the signal
for a touchback because of an interception. The ruling on the
field was determined to be a touchdown and instant replay can’t
be used to decide which team has possession.  “Very hard to swallow,” said Packers coach  Mike McCarthy ,
who started his post-game press conference by saying he wouldn’t
answer questions about the officiating. “I’ve never seen
anything like that in all my years in football. Most unusual
football game that I’ve been a part of.”  NFL rules state that if two players gain control of a ball
simultaneously, the offensive team retains possession. However,
televised replays indicated that Jennings had control of the
ball before Tate reached in to grab the ball. The sport’s laws
say a catch isn’t “simultaneous” if one player gains control
first and a second player then gains joint possession.  “Just look at the replay,” Packers quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  said at a news conference. “It’s awful, that’s all I’m
going to say about it. It sucks losing and it’s even worse when
it goes that way.”  ‘Total Desperation’  Former Super Bowl-winning coach  Jon Gruden , an analyst for
the ESPN telecast, said the end of the game was “comical.”  As the players jockeyed for position in the end zone for a
pass that Seahawks coach  Pete Carroll  said was “total
desperation,” Tate shoved Packers cornerback Sam Shields to the
ground and wasn’t called for offensive pass interference.  “That was two of the worst calls at the end of a football
game that I can remember,” Gruden said on ESPN.  Last night’s chaotic finish capped a second straight week
in which the league’s inexperienced backup officials --
recruited from the lower levels of college football -- have
drawn criticism for mistakes and a lack of knowledge of the
rules. The NFL locked out its regular officials after the two
sides were unable to reach an agreement on a new labor contract.
The league and the NFL Referees Association are at odds over pay,
pensions and operational issues.  Frustrated Coaches  New England Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  may face a fine
from the NFL after grabbing an official by the arm following his
team’s 31-30 loss to the  Baltimore Ravens  two nights ago.  Baltimore Ravens coach  John Harbaugh  and Washington
Redskins offensive coordinator Kyle Shanahan had disputes with
officials that are being investigated by the NFL. The league
yesterday issued a $30,000 fine to Denver Broncos coach John Fox
and a $25,000 discipline on assistant Jack Del Rio for verbally
abusing officials in a Sept. 17 loss.  “I know it’s been a wild weekend in the NFL and I guess
we’re a part of it now,” McCarthy said.  The finish overshadowed a game in which the Seahawks’
defense limited the Packers to 268 yards of offense and sacked
Rodgers eight times. Tate finished with two touchdown catches,
though his second one will be long debated.  ‘Keep Fighting’  “I didn’t know who they gave it to, so I just kept my
hands on it,” Tate said in a televised interview from CenturyLink
Field in  Seattle . “The defender and I both fought for it. I couldn’t 
hear any whistles. I didn’t know what the ruling was, so I just 
tried to keep fighting. I heard it was a touchdown, so there we go.”  After several minutes, both teams had to return to the
field so the Seahawks could kick the extra point. The Packers
had headed to the locker room after the final play was ruled a
touchdown instead of an interception.  Rodgers, whose team fell to 1-2, said he’s never
experienced a more bitter defeat.  “It was crazy after the game,” said Rodgers. “It seemed
like nobody had any idea of what was going on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  