-- SEC Fraud Suit Deadlines Draw Review From U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-09-25T17:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/sec-fraud-suit-deadlines-draw-review-from-u-s-high-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to
hear an appeal that seeks to force the Securities and Exchange
Commission to move more quickly in pressing fraud lawsuits.  The justices today said they will hear arguments from two
Gabelli Funds LLC officials seeking to block SEC claims that
they improperly let a client engage in market timing, a practice
of making frequent, short-term trades at the expense of other
investors.  Marc J. Gabelli and Bruce Alpert contend that the SEC sued
after the five-year window for seeking penalties had expired. A
federal appeals court in  New York  said the suit could go forward
because the window doesn’t open in fraud cases until the SEC has
reason to know a violation has occurred.  The case raises issues similar to those addressed by the
Supreme Court in 2010, when it ruled that the two-year period
for shareholder fraud suits doesn’t begin until investors have
indications of intentional company wrongdoing. The new case
concerns SEC enforcement actions, rather than private suits.  Gabelli and Alpert contend that, under the appeals court
ruling, “the SEC would be able to bring an ancient claim on the
mere allegation that it did not discover and could not have
discovered the violation earlier.”  At the time of the alleged wrongdoing -- from 1999 to 2002
-- Gabelli was the portfolio manager for the Gabelli Global
Growth Fund and Alpert was chief operating officer of Gabelli
Funds. The SEC filed its complaint in 2008.  The SEC and the Obama administration urged the  high court 
not to take up the case. They said the court has “repeatedly
recognized” the so-called discovery rule in fraud cases.  “Courts long ago recognized that, despite concerns about
stale evidence and the passage of time, the discovery rule was
necessary to ensure that a defendant could not benefit from his
own fraud or concealment,” U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli argued.  The court will hear arguments early next year and rule by
June. The case is Gabelli v. SEC, 11-1274.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  