-- SEC Says New York Firm Allowed High-Speed Stock Manipulation
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-09-25T19:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/sec-says-new-york-broker-allowed-high-speed-stock-manipulation.html
A New York-based brokerage allowed
overseas clients to run a scheme aimed at distorting stock
prices by rapidly canceling orders, according to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Clients of Hold Brothers On-Line Investment Services were
“repeatedly manipulating publicly traded stocks” by placing
and erasing orders in an illegal strategy designed to trick
others into buying or selling, the SEC said today in a release.
Hold Brothers, its owners, and the foreign firms Trade Alpha
Corporate Ltd. and Demonstrate LLC agreed to settle allegations
that the  New York  broker failed to supervise customers and pay
$4 million in total SEC fines.  The SEC  complaint  targeted practices that abused high-speed
computer trading on American equity venues. As high-frequency
activity has grown in recent years, the agency’s efforts to stop
fraudulent practices such as “layering” or “spoofing” have
extended to the automated trading tactics.  “Direct access firms like these are the gatekeeper to our
markets,” Sang Lee, managing partner at research firm Aite
Group LLC in  Boston , said today in a phone interview. “That’s
why the SEC is doing this. This is certainly the area that they
need to focus on, and on a larger scale.”  Steve Hold  Along with Hold Brothers, the SEC charged its co-founder
and president, Steve Hold, who created and partially owned Trade
Alpha and Demonstrate, according to today’s release. Robert
Vallone, a former chief compliance officer and chief financial
officer, and William Tobias, another executive, were also
charged and agreed to the penalties.  A phone call to the Hold Brothers main number and an e-mail
to the general media address weren’t immediately returned.  The SEC described layering as placing an order with no
intention of having it executed in an effort to deceive others
into paying an “artificial price” for a security. Hold
Brothers executives were aware of e-mails and other indications
that manipulative trading was happening and “recklessly
continued” to provide the firms access, it said.  The trading occurred from at least January 2009 to
September 2010, the agency said.  Exchange Fines  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and exchanges
owned by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Bats Global
Markets Inc. fined Hold Brothers $3.4 million for manipulative
trading activities and other violations, bringing the total
fines to the broker to more than $5.9 million.  Regulators have required brokers to tighten controls when
they give clients direct access to markets, warning that so-
called sub-accounts can be used to hide wrongdoing. The SEC
implemented the rule in July 2011 directing firms to limit risks
associated with direct access. The rule ended unsupervised
trading, or “naked access,” to markets.  Regulators fined the market-making unit of automated
trading firm Getco LLC $450,000 in March for failing to maintain
proper supervision over its stock buying and selling.  In September 2010, Trillium Brokerage Services LLC, a
proprietary trading firm, was fined $1 million for sending
orders to electronic stock venues aimed at deceiving investors,
Finra said.  False Appearance  Nine traders at New York-based Trillium entered orders on
the Nasdaq Stock Market and NYSE Arca designed to create the
false appearance of buying or selling in an attempt to get
better prices than they would have otherwise, Finra said in a
statement. The 46,000 instances generated about $575,000 in
profit and took place between Nov. 1, 2006, and Jan. 31, 2007,
the regulator said.  “The fairness principle that underlies the foundation of
our markets demands that prices of securities accurately reflect
a genuine supply of and demand for those securities,” Daniel M. Hawke, the chief of the SEC’s enforcement division’s market
abuse unit, said in the statement. “The SEC will not tolerate
any abusive practice that is designed to distort these natural
forces.”  The trading that Hold Brothers was fined for occurred from
at least January 2009 to September 2010, according to the SEC
statement. Finra said that Demonstrate was Hold Brothers’
largest account and that the trades primarily involved traders
in  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  