-- Serbia Seeks Investors to Expand Power Output, Cut Imports
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-09-25T08:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/serbia-seeks-investors-to-expand-electricity-output-cut-imports.html
Serbia  plans to cut red tape to
attract investors in energy projects and increase power
production, reducing dependence on imports, Energy Minister 
Zorana Mihajlovic said.  The ministry is reviewing 170 licenses and nine preliminary
agreements with energy developers, including Elektroprivreda
Srbije’s deals with Italy’s Edison SpA for the 750-megawatt
Kolubara B plant and with Seci Energia SpA for new hydro plants
on Serbian rivers, Mihajlovic, 42, said in an interview.  The Balkan nation seeks to become self-sufficient by adding
2,000 megawatts of capacity at an estimated cost of as much as 
7.7 billion euros ($10 billion). Serbia currently produces an 
average of 36,000 gigawatt-hours a year, almost entirely from 
the 8,360-megawatt capacity of the state-owned monopoly, 
Elektroprivreda Srbije, or EPS.  “The key is that investors know what our priorities are
and we’ll support them,” Mihajlovic, who previously worked at
EPS, said Sept. 20 in Belgrade. “If investment conditions are 
good, they’ll come here,” particularly investors in renewable 
energy for export, the minister said.  The government will define “priority projects” in about a
month and start looking for private investors as financing
through sovereign borrowing is off the table due to excessive
public debt and the  budget deficit , Mihajlovic said.  Permits Cut  The ministry will cut the number of permits needed to start
a project to “three to five” from 27 at present and “by the
first quarter of the next year make sure that the ministry
issues all the permits to investors” so they can immediately
start their investment, Mihajlovic said. So far, it took about
three years to obtain all the permits, she added.  Serbia will need to import as much as 600 gigawatt-hours of
electricity in the fourth quarter as the weather gets cold, 
Mihajlovic said.  The ministry plans to license EPS for electricity trading
by the end of the year, possibly excluding other electricity
traders from power purchases for Serbia and cutting down the
cost of imports as the government plans no increases in power
and gas prices through December. Seasonal energy imports put
pressure on the dinar while price increases fuel inflation,
which will return to double-digits this year.  Biomass is one of the renewables Serbia wants to encourage
with favorable feed-in tariffs, while revising the incentives
for other renewable sources.  Revise Tariffs  “We will have to revise those tariffs considering our
difficult economic situation,” she said. The duration of
guaranteed purchase of the energy will probably be shortened
from the current offer of 12 years, while the government will
have to assess if it “can afford this level of tariffs.”  Incentives for power production from renewable energy
sources range from 7.8 euro cents per kilowatt-hour produced in
small hydro-power plants to 23 euro cents for solar energy.
Biomass accounts for almost two-thirds of Serbia’s renewable
energy potential seen at 4.3 million tons of oil equivalent, she
said.  “Biomass is an important energy resource in Serbia and its
potential is probably beyond expectations,” Aleksandar
Kovacevic, a visiting research fellow at Oxford Institute for
Energy Studies, said by phone. “ If given a chance, biomass
could facilitate entirely commercial investment path with very
little need for financial initiatives.”  Traditional Generation  Focus on traditional power-generating facilities includes a
pact with  Germany ’s  RWE AG (RWE)  on building a new, 700-megawatt unit
at the Nikola Tesla B thermal plant in Obrenovac near Belgrade.  “We’re optimistic about the support we expect from the
minister,” said Ana Brnabic, project director at Continental
Wind Partners LLC, which wants to build a 300-megawatt, 450
million-euro wind park in the country.  Together with a  coal mine  that will feed the facility, the
investment is seen at 1.2 billion euros and one of the options
to repay the German utility is electricity from Serbian hydro
plants, she said. A contract with RWE will probably be signed by
the end of the second quarter of 2013 and it will take three
years to build.  China Environmental Energy Co. (3989)  and  Shenzhen
Energy Group Co. (000027)  may also take part in the project, she said.  Nuclear Ban  Serbia will keep the ban on nuclear energy because “we are
a country which still has political and economic problems and we
don’t need a nuclear plant on our territory,” Mihajlovic said.  Serbia also wants to build Djerdap 3, a reversible hydro-
power plant on the Danube, which will require an estimated
investment of “at least 4 billion euros” that will produce
annually between seven billion and eight billion kilowatt-hours,
to meet the electricity needs of the region, Mihajlovic said.  “The problem is that the state defines projects instead of
letting investors do that,” said Kovacevic. “The government
must provide much better conditions if it wants to jump start
the projects.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net  or
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  