-- Shanghai Bonded Copper Stocks May at Record, Survey Shows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-25T07:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/shanghai-bonded-copper-stocks-may-at-record-survey-shows.html
Copper inventories at bonded
warehouses in  Shanghai  probably climbed to a record as import
 premiums  dropped to a four-month low, signaling demand in  China 
may not be improving as much as expected after a summer lull.  Reserves were 650,000 metric tons, according to the median
of nine estimates from traders, analysts and warehouse managers,
compiled by Bloomberg. Five said that this was a record. The
amount compared with an estimate of 550,000 tons by Macquarie
Group Ltd. on Aug. 20. Fees paid by importers over the London
Metal Exchange cash price are about $40 to $60 a ton on a cost,
insurance and freight basis, the lowest since May.  Rising stockpiles and a shrinking appetite for imports may
cap prices in  London  that have gained 8.2 percent this year. The
economy in China, the world’s largest user, grew 7.6 percent in
the second quarter from a year ago, the slowest pace since 2009.
Expansion may be about 7 percent in 2013, according to Pacific
Investment Management Co., the slowest in 23 years.  “What we’ve heard is that inventories along the industry
chain have been rising, from smelters to trading firms, to
downstream users,” Jia Zheng, head of nonferrous metals
research at East Asia Futures Co., said by phone from Shanghai.
“Market participants have placed high hopes on government
stimulus policies and this spurred some traders to stockpile a
bit, leading to a higher level than the first half.”  Warehouses in Shanghai’s free-trade areas, where products
are exempted from a value-added tax and import duties, don’t
release data on inventories.  No Improvement  “Short-term signals from the Chinese market offer little
to inspire,” Barclays Plc said in a report on Sept. 21.
“Combined with unchanged premia for spot cathode, there are no
signals of an imminent pick-up in activity.”  Copper for immediate delivery on Shanghai’s Changjiang
Nonferrous Metals Market was quoted at a discount of about 70
 yuan  ($11) to 80 yuan yesterday to the front-month futures
contract, compared with a premium of about 300 yuan a month ago.  The most-active contract on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
has gained 6.8 percent this month, while its counterpart on the
LME has risen 8 percent, and traded at $8,223 at 3:01 p.m. in
Shanghai. SHFE copper  inventories  climbed to 166,829 tons last
week, the highest level in four months, bourse data showed.  “People are now saying ‘do not count on the demand,’”
said Ren Gang, general manager of metals trading firm Qingdao
Youbangyuan Trading Co.’s office in Shanghai. “If you look at
the equities market, it tells you how people view the situation,
and I think things may not improve until the first quarter.”  Lack of Funding  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell by as much as
1.1 percent to 2,005.26 yesterday, the lowest since February
2009, and is set for a third yearly decline.  None of the companies and traders surveyed had seen any
impact from the stimulus on the ground and all were extremely
skeptical on funding for the plan, Barclays said in a separate
report yesterday. The comments are in line with those of Song Guoqing, an adviser to China’s central bank, who said the
slowdown may persist into next year on a lack of funding for
approved infrastructure projects.  The government approved plans for 2,018 kilometers (1,254
miles) of roads, as well as sewage plants, port and warehouse
projects and subways in early September, which were estimated at
1 trillion yuan by Moody’s Investors Service.  China’s refined copper  imports  jumped 58 percent from a
year ago to 2.39 million tons in January to August, according to
customs data. Arrivals will probably remain steady in the next
couple of months, underpinned by financing demand, said Pang
Juan, an analyst at Jiangxi Copper Co.’s unit Jinrui Futures Co.
on Sept. 21, referring to companies buying the metal from
overseas to use as collateral for financing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  