-- Western Wind Shareholders Back Management to End Proxy Fight
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-25T20:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/shareholders-back-management-to-end-proxy-battle-at-western-wind.html
Western Wind Energy Corp. (WND)  won a
proxy fight with investor Savitr Capital LLC for control of the
Canadian renewable-power developer that’s been for sale since
July 29.  About 74 percent, or 30.7 million shares, who voted proxies
before the company’s annual meeting supported management’s board
nominees, Vancouver-based Western Wind said in a statement
today. Twenty-six percent of proxies, or 11 million votes, were
submitted in favor of Savitr.  “Based on preliminary voting results, it appears that
management has prevailed,” Lawrence Casse, a Western Wind
spokesman, said in a phone interview from Toronto. Proxies
submitted represented a majority of the company’s 68.4 million
shares, the threshold for management to succeed, he said. The
proxies were verified by Computershare Investor Services Inc.  The company is battling Savitr Capital, a San Francisco-
based fund that’s seeking to replace the board and gain control
of the sale process. Savitr has said it manages 3.2 million
shares, or 5 percent, of Western Wind, which develops and
operates wind farms.  “We would like to thank all the shareholders who supported
our efforts for true board independence, Andrew Midler, managing
member of Savitr, said in a statement. ‘‘Acting to protect
shareholders from a highly dilutive transaction and then pushing
for broad oversight of a true and credible sale process will
benefit all holders of Western Wind shares.’’  Western Wind Chief Executive Officer Jeff Ciachurski said
in an interview Sept. 12 that he expects a buyer to pay between
C$3.75 and C$4.50 a share for the company.  Western Wind fell 2.4 percent to C$2.44 at the close in
Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  