-- Sharp’s Main Banks Said to Plan Approval of Revival Package
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-25T05:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/sharp-s-main-banks-said-to-plan-approval-of-revival-package-1-.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ’s two main banks plan
to back a revival package from the Japanese TV maker and will
contribute to a total of about 360 billion yen ($4.6 billion)
in loans, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306)  plan to approve the package presented yesterday by
Sept. 30, the people said, asking not to be identified before an
announcement.  Resona Holdings Inc. (8308)  and Nippon Life Insurance Co.
may join in providing the loans,  Kyodo News  reported yesterday,
without citing anyone.  Sharp, currently renegotiating a stake sale to Foxconn
Technology Group, plans to cut almost 11,000 jobs by March 2014
and may sell an overseas factory, Kyodo reported today.  Japan ’s
biggest maker of liquid-crystal displays plans to raise 213.1
billion yen from asset sales, Kyodo reported, without saying
where it got the information. Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman for
Sharp, said a restructuring plan hasn’t been decided upon.  “It’s positive for Sharp if lenders are moving forward to
make loans, as its financing issue has been a concern in the
market,” said Keita Wakabayashi, a Tokyo-based analyst at Mito
Securities Co. “Still, it’s hard to say whether the issue is
all clear because information on how much more of the company’s
debts are coming due next month and onwards isn’t public.”  Masako Shiono, a spokeswoman at Mizuho, and Hironori Imafuku, a spokesman at Mitsubishi UFJ, declined to comment.  Sharp’s Debt  Osaka-based Sharp  rose  1 percent to 208 yen as of 2:31 p.m.
in Tokyo. The shares have declined 69 percent this year, making
it the biggest loser among more than 1,600 companies in the  MSCI
World Index. (MXWO)   The cost of insuring against a default on Sharp’s debt for
five years rose to 2,774 basis points Tuesday morning in Tokyo,
up from 2,693 in  New York  at Monday’s close, according to data
provider CMA.  The company had 706 billion yen of short-term debt maturing
within 12 months and 314 billion yen in long-term debts at the
end of June, according to its latest quarterly financial
statement. Sharp’s cash and near-cash stood at 218 billion yen
at the time.  Return to Profit  Sharp President Takashi Okuda is cutting jobs and has put
up properties as collateral to raise funds as the company
projects a second consecutive annual loss. The maker of Aquos
TVs has turned to lenders for financial support as commercial
papers come due and after  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service cut its credit ratings to junk.  The electronics maker has been renegotiating terms for a
proposed stake sale to Taipei-based Foxconn after widening its
full-year loss forecast eightfold in August, triggering a slide
in its share price. Foxconn agreed in March to invest 67 billion
yen for a 9.9 percent stake in Sharp at 550 yen a share.  Sharp plans to return to profit next fiscal year with the
help of job cuts and cost reductions, Okuda said Sept. 14. The
company is trimming its workforce and planning to reduce wages,
managers’ salaries and bonuses to lower costs by 14 billion yen,
it said earlier this month. The cuts are in addition to a 100
billion-yen reduction in fixed costs Sharp announced in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  