-- Silicon Forest Baseball Wager Penalizes Oregon City: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/silicon-forest-baseball-wager-penalizes-oregon-city-muni-credit.html
Hillsboro,  Oregon ’s fifth-biggest
city, is staking its  credit rating  on a plan to build a $15.2
million stadium for a minor-league baseball team. Similar
efforts in  Washington  state and  New Jersey  ended in downgrades.  The Portland suburb with about 93,500 residents broke
ground on the venue last week. It will house an affiliate of
 Major League Baseball ’s  Arizona  Diamondbacks that for 23 years
played 200 miles (322 kilometers) away in Yakima, Washington.
Hillsboro plans to finance the stadium by selling municipal
bonds by year-end, even as the extra yield investors demand on
some of its debt has climbed by 60 percent since July.  In the past 18 months, Wenatchee, Washington, and Harrison,
New Jersey, lost their investment grades because sports-arena
projects financed with munis missed revenue projections and
failed to spur the development officials were counting on.
Hillsboro is taking a similar risk, said Howard Cure, director
of muni research at Evercore Wealth Management LLC, which
oversees $3.7 billion.  “It’s yet to be proven how much a sports team contributes
to economic stimulus,” said Cure, who’s based in  New York . “If
you’re looking at it as a way of economic development and you’re
supporting it with taxpayer money, there should be an economic
rationale to it. And I’m not sure there is.”  City Vision  Sports facilities have become more attractive to local
governments looking to boost revenue after the 18-month
recession that ended in June 2009. Wilmington,  North Carolina ’s
City Council this month approved a $37 million general-
obligation bond sale to build a baseball park for an Atlanta
Braves affiliate. Moody’s Investors Service rates Hillsboro’s
debt Aa3, fourth-highest, and Wilmington’s Aa1, second-best.  Hillsboro’s economy has benefited from its location in
Oregon’s so-called Silicon Forest of technology companies.  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  and  Lattice Semiconductor Corp. (LSCC)  are among those operating
in the region.  The Hillsboro stadium is part of “a vision for the city to
bring community-based programming and places where the community
can get together,” said Suzanne Linneen, the city’s finance
director. “There’s a belief that it will bring some economic
vitality to the region.”  The Yakima team’s move is partly a result of the disparate
financial conditions of the two Pacific Northwest localities.
Hillsboro has a median household income of $60,695, about
$10,000 above the Oregon average, U.S. Census data show. By
contrast, Yakima has about 92,500 residents and an average
household income of $39,706.  ‘Small Market’  “Financially, we struggled, and the facility there is now
20 years old and there haven’t been many improvements done,”
said K.L. Wombacher, the team’s general manager. “It’s just a
small market in the world of minor-league baseball.”  The Yakima Bears finished with a 36-40 record in 2012. It
is a so-called short-season franchise because it plays about
half the amount of other Class A leagues. The franchise has an
ursine mascot named  Boomer .  Hillsboro will add the proposed 4,500-seat ballpark to an
existing 90-acre complex, which has a 7,000-seat multipurpose
stadium and seven softball fields, according to its  website .  Attendance in Hillsboro may total from 100,000 to 180,000
fans per season, Linneen said. In Yakima, an average of 1,700
people came to the team’s 38 home games, according to Wombacher.
That’s about 65,000 for the entire 2012 regular-season campaign.  G.O. Pledge  Hillsboro estimates it will pay $1.1 million a year for
debt service if it borrows $15.2 million for the stadium. It is
considering using cash reserves to finance construction and
reduce debt issuance, said City Manager  Michael Brown . The city
has a $366 million  budget  for 2012-2013, its website says.  The stadium is the latest project the city has funded
through debt backed by its full faith and credit pledge. It sold
about $29 million of such debt in July to fund renovations to
two libraries and refund debt. Moody’s views the securities as
limited-tax general-obligations of the city.  For cites that stake their credit on a stadium, “it’s no
different from putting a G.O. on a renovation to the public
library,” said Gregory Carey, chairman of the public sector and
infrastructure group at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “It’s a
community asset. It’s quality of life.”  Widening Spread  Yields on some Hillsboro debt rose in the past two months
even as  interest rates  on top-rated munis fell.  Bonds from the library sale maturing in 2028 traded Sept.
19 at an average yield of 3.06 percent, up from 2.9 percent when
they were issued July 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In
the same period, the interest rate on benchmark AAAs fell about
0.12 percentage point.  As a result, the extra yield investors demand over top-
grade  munis  grew 0.27 percentage point in the period.  In the broader tax-exempt market,  yields  on benchmark 30-
year munis rose about 0.01 percentage point to 2.9 percent
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The 3,000-seat  Yakima County Stadium  was built in 1993,
according to its website. The team and the county couldn’t agree
on improving the ballpark or building a new one, said Randy
Beehler, the city’s community relations manager.  The franchise has delayed the announcement of the new team
because of trademark work with Minor League Baseball, Wombacher
said. Revenue from the ballpark’s naming rights and attendance
in the first season will determine how much the stadium will
cost Hillsboro, Brown said.  “There are unknowns in this, but what’s not unknown is how
we pay for it,” Brown said. “If need be, if other revenues
don’t come through, because we have to pay our debt, we’ll use
general fund monies.”  Following are pending sales:  NEW YORK CITY plans to borrow a combined $1.2 billion of
general-obligation bonds this month and next to refund debt and
finance capital projects, according to the city’s Office of
Management and Budget. The sales include both fixed-rate and
variable-rate debt. (Updated Sept. 25)  PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY, which finances
reconstruction of the  World Trade Center site , plans to sell $2
billion of taxable revenue bonds as soon as this week, with
maturities as long as 50 years, according to a preliminary
notice of the sale. (Updated Sept. 25)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  