-- Silver in ETPs Set for Record as Central Banks Ignite Demand
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2012-09-25T07:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/silver-in-etps-poised-for-record-as-central-banks-ignite-demand.html
Silver assets in exchange-traded
products are poised to expand to a record, joining the biggest-
ever hoards of gold and platinum, as increased stimulus from the
world’s central banks spurs investors to amass precious metals.  The amount held in ETPs was 18,525.76 metric tons yesterday,
0.6 percent below the peak of 18,639.07 tons in April 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Silver, which also
benefits from bets on economic recovery, has risen 22 percent
this year, outperforming gold, platinum and palladium futures.  Silver “runs very hard and fast and it usually goes too
far in whatever direction it’s going,” said Nick Trevethan,
senior commodities strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., who predicts record ETP holdings. “Silver will
track gold, but for people to get really excited about silver,
we’ll need to see strong industrial demand as well.”  Gold and platinum holdings in ETPs are both at the highest
ever after the U.S. Federal Reserve announced on Sept. 13 a
third round of debt-buying to bolster the economy, increasing
concern the dollar may weaken while inflation accelerates. The
infusions of liquidity by central banks have boosted investor
interest in so-called hard assets such as bullion, according to
Deutsche Bank AG’s asset and wealth-management unit.  “Gold is the world’s supreme hard asset and you would buy
gold in order to protect yourself from risk,” said  James Steel ,
chief commodity analyst at HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. “Silver
tends to track gold, except it overperforms in a  bull market  and
underperforms in a  bear market  because it’s a much thinner
market and has a big industrial component.”  Quarterly Rally  Silver futures gained as much as 0.7 percent to $34.225 an
ounce on the Comex in  New York , and traded at $34.165 at 3:34
p.m. in Singapore. The metal is the best performer this quarter
on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials,
beating rallies in wheat, lead and heating oil.  The  European Central Bank  said this month it planned to buy
debt of  member states  to fight the region’s crisis, while the
 Bank of Japan  added 10 trillion yen ($128 billion) to a fund
that buys assets.  China  has approved extra infrastructure
spending, while injecting funds into the financial system. The
 Dollar Index (DXY)  has lost 2.6 percent since June 30, set for the
biggest quarterly loss since the first three months of 2011.  Silver holdings in ETPs have expanded 7.1 percent this year,
lagging increases in  gold , platinum and palladium, according to
data tracked by Bloomberg. ETPs trade like shares and enable
investors make bets without taking physical delivery of assets.  Labor Disputes  Holdings of platinum and palladium ETPs have risen 17
percent in 2012, with increases also spurred by labor disputes
in  South Africa  that disrupted supplies. Gold holdings in ETPs
have gained 8.1 percent this year.  Hedge funds  and other speculators tripled wagers on rising
silver prices in the six weeks through Sept. 18, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  data  show. They now hold a net 30,986
U.S. futures and options, the most since February. The U.S.
Mint’s sales of American Eagle silver coins have climbed to
3.125 million ounces this month, according to the Mint’s website,
compared with 2.87 million ounces for all of August.  Industrial demand from solar panels to batteries accounts
for about 53 percent of global silver consumption, according to
the Washington-based Silver Institute.  Imports by China , the
world’s second-largest user and third-biggest producer, fell
about 24 percent in the first eight months of this year compared
with a year ago as economic growth slowed, customs data show.  China’s central bank last cut interest rates in July, after
lowering lenders’ reserve requirement ratio three times from
November to May. Gross domestic product expanded 7.6 percent in
the second quarter, the smallest gain in three years.  “The policy paralysis in China probably means we’re not
going to see a pickup in industrial activity until Q1, maybe Q2,
and investors are probably trying to front run that,” Trevethan
said from  Singapore . “There’s plenty of scope for silver ETPs
to continue to rally.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  