-- India Gets Another Chance to Succeed
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-09-25T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/singh-is-offering-india-another-chance-to-succeed.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  spoke to the country on television last week, amid
national protests over unexpectedly bold economic reforms his
government had just announced. A coalition partner has defected,
leaving Singh without a majority in Parliament, so the prospects
for his proposals aren’t good.  “If we have to go down,” he’s reported to have said, “we
have to go down fighting.”  The truth is, Singh no longer had much to lose. He could
have surrendered to paralysis. That would have meant worsening
economic underperformance, erasing altogether his faded
reputation as India’s chief modernizer. Or he could start and
probably lose a fight to put the economy back on the high-growth
track he first mapped out.  Unlikely as he is to succeed, choosing this battle was his
best bet, and  India ’s as well.  As finance minister in the early 1990s, Singh was the main
architect of India’s breakthrough reforms. Before that first
“big bang,” India was the most micromanaged democracy in the
world. Bicycle manufacturers needed the government’s permission
to use a different kind of tire. When I visited the Planning
Commission in  New Delhi  back then, officials proudly showed me
the input-output tables they used, so they thought, to direct
the economy down to the last bicycle spoke. Imagine Soviet-style
central planning run by the British civil service.  Phenomenal Results  In economic terms, the dismantling of the so-called License
Raj was an event on the same scale as Gorbachev’s perestroika,
though less dramatic because it didn’t require a political
revolution. The results were phenomenal. The fiscal crisis that
had sparked the reforms was brought under control. The
traditional Hindu rate of growth -- call it 4 percent a year,
assuming a fair monsoon -- was replaced by an East Asian  pace of
expansion . Entrepreneurs appeared from nowhere and built world-
class businesses. Poverty  retreated  faster over the next decade
and a half than at any time in the country’s history.  There were two problems, however. First, sweeping as the
reforms had been, they weren’t enough to make the new growth
trajectory secure. There was too much unfinished business. Choke
points such as weak infrastructure, erratic power supplies,
unaffordable subsidies (mainly benefiting the middle class), and
entrenched inefficiency in distribution and other sectors
gradually throttled the expansion.  Second, and more important, too many Indians failed to
notice the miracle happening around them -- or, if they noticed,
only resented it.  Although two decades of rapid growth have improved the
lives of India’s poor, the gap between India’s successful new
business class and the rural masses has widened. This pattern is
pretty much universal when developing economies take off, and
it’s hard to see how it could have been avoided. But a main
strand of India’s political culture remains exuberantly
sensitive to the disparity. It’s Indian exceptionalism -- the
idea that the world’s most populous democracy should prefer
growth that’s slow, stately and fair over vulgar capitalist
excess. Add a political elite whose cynicism would startle even
 Washington , and Singh has his work cut out for him.  Despite the proven success of the big bang, economic reform
in India is still like pulling teeth. The changes Singh’s
government has again taken up -- having tried and failed to push
most of them through before -- shouldn’t be controversial. But
they are.  Open Retailing  The government especially wants to encourage inward
investment, so it’s trying again to open India to foreign retail
chains such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. Small traders, a group with
political clout, are threatened by the move and call it anti-
poor. It’s the opposite, of course. Indian retailing is
notoriously inefficient. The big foreign retailers can reduce
waste, drive down prices and, as Singh explained, give suppliers
an alternative to dealing with rapacious middle men.  Singh’s program also cuts diesel subsidies, puts shares in
some state-owned enterprises up for sale, opens domestic
airlines to foreign investors, lowers the tax on Indian
businesses that borrow from abroad and encourages small
investors to put money in the stock market. Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram, another veteran reformer, says he wants
to create an “equity culture.” Remote as that prospect may seem
for much of India, the goal makes sense, because reconciling
India to capitalism is the real challenge.  Singh told his television audience that the measures just
announced were only the beginning. “We need to do more,” he
said, “and we will do more.”  He’s certainly right about the first part. The  World Bank 
and International Finance Corp. carry out an  annual survey  of
the ease of doing business around the world. India ranks 132nd
out of 183 economies. ( China  is 91st.) It ranks 166th on
“starting a business,” 181st on “dealing with construction
permits,” and 182nd on “enforcing contracts.”  Much as I would like Singh to succeed, I wouldn’t bet on
it.  Sonia Gandhi , president of Singh’s Congress party and its
most potent public figure, doubtless gave tacit approval to the
new reform effort, but she hasn’t been conspicuous in advocating
it to the country. Opposition to the reforms -- especially to
the opening of retailing to foreign competition, on which the
prime minister has now staked his reputation -- unites all
points on India’s political spectrum.  The supposedly pro-business  Bharatiya Janata Party  speaks
for small retailers, and sees an opportunity to bring down
Singh’s now-depleted Congress-led government. And Sitaram Yechury, leader of the opposition Communist Party of India
(Marxist), was quoted by the Financial Times as saying,
“Congress wants Indians to be slaves and foreigners to be our
masters.”  The question all along has been whether India sincerely
wants to succeed. Don’t take the answer for granted. They’re
still thinking about it.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Barack Obama’s mixed success
at the UN  and on  Iceland’s economic recovery ;  Margaret Carlson 
on how Republicans  learned to love Todd Akin ; Jonathan Mahler on
the  NFL’s enigmatic game plan for its referees ;  Peter Orszag  on
how  a longer school day benefits Chicago students ; Cass R.
Sunstein on  what Sixto Rodriguez can teach markets and
politicians ;  Jeff Rubin  on the  environmental consequences  of the
Keystone XL pipeline.  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 