-- Snyder Shuns Partisan Warfare as Michigan Gains Most Since 2002
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/snyder-s-nerdocracy-remakes-michigan-while-voters-remain-aloof.html
Rick Snyder, a first-time
officeholder, became  Michigan ’s Republican governor in 2011
calling himself a nonpolitician. As if to prove it, he swiftly
raised taxes on retirees.  “The first reaction was, ‘You want to do what?’” said
Bill Rustem, Snyder’s strategy director, recalling the staff’s
response when Snyder broached the idea. Still, making the
elderly pay more helped the man who bills himself as “one tough
nerd” lower business taxes by $1.7 billion, an 86 percent
reduction.  A 54-year-old former venture capitalist, Snyder has avoided
partisan warfare like Wisconsin Republican  Scott Walker ’s clash
with unions or Kansas Governor  Sam Brownback ’s crusade against
abortion. He’s worked with Democrats to help  Detroit  escape
takeover. He’s driven an overhaul of government operations, and
a Comerica Bank report yesterday showed Michigan’s economy is in
its highest gear since November 2002.  Yet Snyder’s mantra of “relentless positive action” has
yet to win him widespread popularity. Sixty-three percent of
1,015 Michigan adults rated his job performance “fair” or
“poor” in a poll released Sept. 21 by  Michigan State
University . Snyder’s job approval rating has been as low as 19
percent, according to a December 2011 survey.  Democratic politicians say Snyder’s veneer of friendly
technocracy hides a conservative core.  The governor’s ability to remake a state that led the U.S.
in unemployment during the worst economic downturn since the
Great Depression may yet provide a blueprint for bridging the
partisan divide.  Unboxable Man  “Most people think  Rick Snyder  has broken the mold,” said
Paul Welday, a Michigan Republican political consultant. “He’s
impossible to fit into a box ideologically.”  Snyder and a Republican-dominated legislature have balanced
budgets and rearranged taxes. They’ve cut education spending,
business regulations,  unemployment benefits , and retirement
health benefits for public employees. The governor also allowed
state managers in distressed cities to cancel union contracts.  Though Snyder followed Republican orthodoxy by cutting
business taxes, he angered seniors, a potent voting bloc. Taxing
pensions was justified because “it’s not fair that a 70-year-
old woman working at Wal-Mart was paying income tax and a 50-
year-old public retiree wasn’t,” Rustem said.  Working Quietly  Snyder signed anti-bullying legislation that Republicans
blocked for years, saying he was picked on as a youth. And he’s
pushed for creating an insurance exchange to comply with
President  Barack Obama ’s national health-care overhaul, which
many fellow Republicans oppose.  He’s drawn less attention than more flamboyant ideologues,
said Jessica Taylor, senior analyst for the Washington-based
Rothenberg Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter that
covers congressional and gubernatorial elections.  “He’s keeping his head down,” Taylor said. “That’s not
necessarily a bad thing. He’s doing what a governor is supposed
to be doing.”       Public life has required navigating new obstacles, said 
Snyder, who was chairman and chief executive officer at North
Sioux City, South Dakota-based Gateway Inc., a computer company 
acquired in 2007 by  Acer Inc. (2353)   “In the private sector you have competitors,” Snyder said
in an interview in his Lansing office. “In the public sector,
you have people who just want to fight, and really treat you
like an enemy. That’s not my approach.”  His approach isn’t universally praised.  Snookered Voters  Snyder’s elimination of a $1.5 billion deficit in an $8.3
billion general fund alienated voters who must pay more taxes,
said Senate Democratic leader Gretchen Whitmer, 41, of East
Lansing. She said Snyder has cut funding for schools, hurt
collective bargaining for public employees and kowtowed to
social conservatives by signing a law that bars benefits for
unmarried partners of public employees.  “A lot of people who voted for him feel they were duped,”
Whitmer said. “He’s a nice guy. Just because someone’s likable
doesn’t mean you like what they do.”  On the opposite side of the spectrum, Snyder doesn’t
embrace anti-government Tea Party followers. The feeling is
mutual.  Snyder “is trying to grow government and spend more money,
and that’s garbage to me,” said Marcus Pederson, 43, a Tea
Party leader in Coldwater.  Closet Internationalist  “He looks like a Republican, but he has a globalist
mind,” said Ron Acton, 59, a Tea Party activist in Jackson,
Michigan. In fact, Snyder has encouraged Congress to help
foreigners with advanced technical degrees to remain in the U.S.  And Snyder, Acton said, is among “the 1 percent of the
wealthy” who concoct financial schemes.  After Gateway, Snyder became a venture capitalist, a
pursuit for which he was primed from youth. He said he studied
finance as a 9-year-old reading Business Week magazine, and
started  stock trading  at 11 with $1,000 from his parents. His
growing portfolio helped pay for college and a down payment on a
house. He earned both an MBA and law degree by 23 at the
 University of Michigan .  Snyder and his wife, Sue, were married in 1987 in a
Presbyterian church in Dearborn, Michigan, her hometown. They
have three children ages 23, 20 and 16. Snyder lives in his Ann
Arbor home rather than the state-owned governor’s residence in
Lansing.  The governor, who rarely wears a tie, spent $6.1 million of
his own to get elected and accepted only $1 of his $159,000
salary his first year.  Driven by Cars  His term so far has been buoyed by a surge in sales and
hiring by Detroit-based automakers since bailouts of  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC and restructuring in 2009.
Michigan ranked second behind  North Dakota  in economic health in
the first quarter, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States.  Michigan’s economic activity rose two points in July to
107.9 in Comerica’s Michigan Index, compared with an average of
103 points so far in 2012 and 12 points higher than in 2011.
Michigan’s index has been helped by improved housing markets and
U.S. vehicle sales, said Robert Dye, chief economist of Dallas-
based Comerica.  Investors have favored the state’s debt. The interest-rate
spread of Michigan’s bonds to top-rated debt has narrowed in the
past two months, a sign they have more confidence in the state’s
ability to repay. A Michigan general obligation bond maturing in
December 2025 traded Sept. 24 at 0.26 percentage points above
the benchmark. Two months earlier, the difference was 0.49
percentage points.  Rearview Mirror  Snyder shrugs off Republican presidential candidate  Mitt
Romney ’s opposition to the rescue of GM and Chrysler in 2009.
Michigan has 133,700 jobs directly tied to the  auto industry ,
according to the Center on Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor .  “There’s way too much time spent on the auto bailout
topic,” Snyder said. “It got done, it worked and we should be
happy it worked.”  “I never get questions about the auto bailout from
Michiganders,” he said. “They want to hear what we are doing
to create better jobs today and tomorrow.”  Snyder said that as Michigan’s economy rebounds, he’s
concerned about complacency and November ballot issues that
would thwart his efforts. One referendum would enshrine
collective-bargaining rights in the state constitution and
another would require a two-thirds vote of the legislature to
raise taxes.  “I’ve seen this before,” Snyder said. “We’d come out of
a recession and people would go back to the same old habits of
doing things. We’re really reinventing Michigan for a long-term
pattern of success.”  “I don’t worry about saying I accomplished anything,” he
said. “Relentless positive action means no blame, no credit,
just coming to solve problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  