-- South Africa Yields Hit Record Low on Index Addition; Rand Gains
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-09-25T15:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/south-africa-yields-hit-record-low-on-index-addition-rand-gains.html
South African bonds gained, driving
yields to record lows, and the rand rallied on demand for the
nation’s debt before its inclusion in Citigroup Inc.’s World
Government Bond Index.  Yields on 6.75 percent notes due 2021 fell 14 basis points,
or 0.14 percentage point, to 6.47 percent at 5:10 p.m. in
Johannesburg, the lowest on record according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rand advanced 0.9 percent to 8.1680 per dollar, a
third day of gains.  The WGBI is tracked by money managers overseeing $2
trillion in assets, who use the gauge as a benchmark. Some money
managers are buying bonds before the country’s inclusion in the
index on Oct. 1, while others have rules preventing them from
buying the debt before they’re included in the gauge, according
to Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd.  “We thought that most of the buying had been done, but it
seems there is another stage of this flow coming in,”
Cruickshanks said by phone. “That could push rates down and it
is very bullish for the rand.”  Foreign investors have bought a net 37.8 billion rand ($4.6
billion) of South African bonds since Citigroup said on June 11
the nation’s debt would be included in the WGBI with a weighting
of 0.41 percent. That brought total purchases this year to 73.1
billion rand, the most in a single year on record, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Data on foreign-investor purchases showed “a noticeable
increase in the long position in” notes maturing in 2015, 2017
and 2020,  Leon Myburgh , an analyst at Citigroup in Johannesburg,
wrote in e-mailed comments. “This data probably reflects
position-building into the WGBI.”  Higher Returns  Investors are also attracted by higher returns than those
offered on the safest  government securities  from the U.S.,
 Germany  and  Japan . South African 13.5 percent notes maturing in
2015 yielded 5.21 percent, compared with 0.35 percent for
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  “With that sort of yield differential, investors will take
a bit of  currency risk  and come in,” Cruickshanks said.  Bonds also gained on speculation the central bank will cut
interest rates again amid signs of slowing global growth. The
South African Reserve Bank cut its forecast for economic growth
this year to 2.6 percent, from 2.7 percent, on Sept. 20, when
its Monetary Policy Committee left the benchmark repo rate
unchanged at 5 percent. Governor Gill Marcus said the risk was
for slower growth as she left the door open for a rate cut.  Rate Cut  Private-sector credit extension probably slowed in August
and the nation’s trade deficit widened as exports slumped,
reports will show on Sept. 27, according to the median estimate
of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “The probability of an  interest rate  cut by January 2013
has tipped past the 50 percent mark, based to a significant
extent on the dovish tone expressed in the September MPC
statement last week,” Bruce Donald, a strategist at Standard
Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, wrote in e-mailed comments.  Forward-rate agreements starting in six months, used to
speculate on interest rates, dropped two basis points today to
4.76 percent. The rate is 32 basis points below the Johannesburg
Interbank Agreed Rate, indicating traders are pricing in more
than a 60 percent chance of a rate cut within six months.  The central bank cut the repo rate by 50 basis points on
July 19, citing concern that the global slowdown will drag down
local growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  