-- Spain Presses ECB to Quantify Bond Purchases as Bill Yields Rise
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-09-25T09:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/spain-presses-ecb-to-say-how-much-it-will-spend-on-bond-buying.html
Spain said it needs to know how
much the  European Central Bank  intends to spend buying its debt
to decide if it should seek outside help as its borrowing costs
rose at a bill auction in  Madrid .  The auction was held amid mounting tension in Madrid where
police have locked down the area around the parliament before
protests scheduled for today and as Catalans agitate for
independence. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has held off seeking
aid since ECB President  Mario Draghi  last month said he’ll buy
Spanish debt if Rajoy accepts conditions.  “There are many fronts we have to tackle,” Deputy Prime
Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria told radio station Cadena
Ser today. “We need to know to what extent the ECB will
intervene in the secondary market. To take decisions you need to
have all the elements on the table.”  The yield on three-month notes rose to 1.203 percent
compared with 0.946 percent the last time the paper was auction
on Aug. 28. Six-month yields climbed to 2.213 percent from 2.026
percent. Demand fell with the bid-to-cover ratio for three-month
paper dropping to 1.83 from 2.17.  In Barcelona, the regional assembly of Catalonia today
started a three-day debate on a proposal to break away from
 Spain  as its President Artur Mas weighs calling for early local
elections. Their demands are adding a new dimension to Spain’s
financial crisis, Saenz said.  “An institutional crisis damages Spain in the eyes of
outsiders,” she said.  Regions’ Fund  An 18 billion-euro ($23 billion) fund to bail out regions
will be operational this week. Mas has told Rajoy he will accept
the conditions set for financial support, Saenz said.  Saenz last week signaled the central government may also be
edging closer to requesting aid as she set out arguments in
favor of a rescue for the first time. Rajoy is preparing to
announce more measures to overhaul the fourth-largest economy in
the euro area on Sept. 27 when he will unveil a 2013 budget that
will inflict more austerity on Spaniards, Saenz said.  Police barricaded the streets around the national
legislature today to defend lawmakers from demonstrators,
chanting, “Take the Parliament.” Officers demanded
identification and proof of address from local residents before
they were granted access to their homes.  “There is total confusion,” said Alfredo Arahuetes
Garcia, head of the economy department at Pontificia Comillas
University in Madrid. “Politicians have no idea what to do and
citizens are feeling abandoned because no one is explaining what
is being done about the crisis.”  Franco’s Echo  The deputy leader of Rajoy’s  People’s Party , Dolores de Cospedal, yesterday compared the demonstration to the 1981
attempted coup when army officers tried to derail Spain’s return
to democracy after the dictatorship of General  Francisco Franco .  Spain’s 10-year bond yields 423 basis points more than
similar-maturity German bunds, more than five times its average
since the single currency began in 1999. Italy’s 10-year bond
currently yields 359 basis points more than German debt.  Italian yields fell at an auction today with its treasury
paying 2.532 percent on zero-coupon 2014 bonds compared with
3.064 percent on Aug. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  