-- Spain Pledges More Reforms: Factbox of Steps Taken and Pending
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-09-25T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/spain-pledges-more-reforms-factbox-of-steps-taken-and-pending.html
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos is set to announce measures tomorrow to spur the
economy, the fourth largest in the euro region. Following is a
list of the main steps already taken and those recommended by
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  Changes Approved:  *Constitutional amendment on budget stability passed in
September under previous Socialist government with support of
 People’s Party . Accompanying  law  drafted by PP government and
approved in April by Parliament sets out ceilings on debt and
deficit and sanctions for administrations that overspend. Debt
payments “enjoy absolute priority over any other spending.”  *Labor  overhaul : firing costs cut and procedure made easier,
companies given more flexibility on organizing workers,
collective-bargaining rules changed, making it easier to cut
wages.  *Pensions: Former Socialist government  legislated  to raise
 retirement age  to 67 in a gradual process starting in 2013 and
culminating in 2027. Move also extends number of working years
used to calculate pension.  *Banks: Two decrees in February and May tightened provisioning
rules for banks. EU bank bailout of as much as 100 billion euros
($129 billion) agreed in June.  *Fiscal devaluation: Employers’ social-security contributions
set to fall in 2013, with value-added tax raised to offset
impact. VAT increased to 21 percent from 18 percent on Sept. 1,
following recommendations from the EU and the IMF. Tax break on
mortgages scrapped after an EU recommendation.  *Education:  overhaul  aimed at boosting performance,
standardizing evaluation and improving vocational training.  *Shop opening hours: measures to free up opening hours including
Sunday opening. Procedures for obtaining retail licenses also
simplified.  *Energy: Draft law before Parliament will increase taxes on
power generators with additional levies on hydro and nuclear
plants to close the power system’s 6 billion-euro annual
deficit. The government will also cover 2.1 billion euros in
repayments this year on the system’s accrued debt.  *Other measures include: reduction in number of public
companies; plan to rein in  tax fraud ; transparency law; changes
to nationwide regulations on health and education to help
regions cut costs; liberalization of transportation; legislation
to allow regional governments to privatize television stations
and oblige them to balance broadcasters’ books if they choose to
keep them.  Measures Pledged:  *Regulation of the “sustainability factor” of pension system  *Liberalization of professional services  *Market unity law  *Law to support entrepreneurs  Recommendations:  *Pensions: EU says worsening of crisis limiting impact of
previous government’s reform on projected spending. Recommends
ensuring retirement age rises in line with  life expectancy .  *Labor overhaul “could be strengthened,” IMF says. EU and IMF
recommend policies to bolster employability and job matching.
 European Central Bank  suggested in August nations with high
unemployment cut labor costs by relaxing employment protection,
abolishing wage indexation and lowering minimum wages.  *Professional services: EU recommends removing barriers and
spurring competition particularly for engineers, notaries,
property registry agents, legal representatives.  *Tax: EU says taxes should be more “growth-friendly,” tax base
should be broadened and  Spain  lags other nations on
environmental taxation. System too dependent on direct taxation,
EU said in July, after income tax was raised in December.  *Bureaucracy: EU recommends easing and simplifying barriers to
opening businesses and seeking common regulatory framework for
all regions.  *Privatizations: EU, IMF and ECB recommend asset sales.  *Healthcare: EU and IMF recommend long-term savings.  *Independent fiscal institution: EU and IMF say Spain should
establish one.  *Small companies: IMF and EU urge policies to bolster their
growth  *IMF recommends product and service market reforms, “supply-
side” measures leading to labor reallocation, wage moderation,
policies to expand tradable sector, raise productivity.  *Timetable: IMF calls for “detailed and ambitious timetable”
of reforms.  *IMF recommends deregulating fuel sector and postal services.  NOTE: EU recommendations are from July, IMF from reports in June
and July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  