-- Standard Chartered Falls on Report of Temasek Stake Talks
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-09-25T11:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/standard-chartered-falls-on-report-of-temasek-stake-talks-2-.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  slipped 4
percent in London trading after a report that the bank’s largest
shareholder talked to potential buyers for its stake.  Temasek Holdings Pte assessed interest in the stake in
recent months, although the talks came to nothing, the Financial
Times reported today, citing people it didn’t identify. The
Singapore investment company holds 18 percent of London-based
 Standard Chartered , according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of the bank, which generates almost 90 percent of
its profit and revenue in Asia,  Africa  and the  Middle East ,  fell 
as much as 61.5 pence, or 4.2 percent, to 1,419 pence and traded
at 1,421 pence at 12:09 p.m. in London.  “Temasek is a long-term investor, and the fact that it has
decided to sell its stake would also signal it feels this is the
top of the valuation range for the bank,” Chirantan Barua, an
analyst at Sanford Bernstein Research in London who rates the
bank underperform, wrote in a note to clients today.  A sale of Temasek’s stake in Standard Chartered could be
hindered by the bank’s recent $340 million settlement of a probe
into accusations that it helped  Iran  illegally funnel money
through the U.S., according to the Financial Times.  Gabriel Kwan, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Standard
Chartered, and  Jeffrey Fang , a spokesman for Temasek, declined
to comment on speculation.  The news Temasek considered a sale is “likely to overhang
the stock in the short term; longer term it potentially
increases the likelihood of a takeover,” Cormac Leech, an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London, said in a note.
Chinese banks such as Bank of Communications Co. are potential
bidders, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  