-- States Fail to Oversee Fracking, Environmental Group Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-09-25T19:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/states-fail-to-oversee-u-s-fracking-environmental-group-says.html
U.S. states fail to adequately
monitor hydraulic fracturing and use outdated fines that are
inadequate to deter violations, an environmental group said as
drillers back state rather federal oversight.  Pennsylvania and  Ohio  each didn’t inspect 91 percent of
active oil and gas wells in 2010, Washington-based Earthworks
said today in a report. In  New Mexico , the top fine of $1,000
per day for violations has been in place for more than 75 years.  “States are dangerously unprepared to oversee current
levels of extraction,” according to the  report  that examined
six states accounting for 46 percent of U.S. production.
“Inspectors are rarely provided with the equipment necessary to
catch all of the problems that may be occurring at oil and gas
facilities.”  Drilling companies such as  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG) , the top oil
producer in a Texas shale formation, and states such as  North
Dakota  argue in favor of state regulation of natural gas
production and oppose federal rules proposed by the President
 Barack Obama ’s administration. Republican presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney  has sided with producers and the states.  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, uses millions of gallons
of chemically treated water and sand to free oil and natural gas
from rock. The technology helped the U.S. cut dependence on
imported fuels, lower power bills and cut state unemployment
from Pennsylvania to North Dakota.  ‘Denigrate’ Regulators  “Environmental groups want centralized planning and
control, and are constantly trying to denigrate state
regulators,” Kathleen Sgamma, vice president of government and
public affairs at Western Energy Alliance, a Denver-based trade
organization, said in an interview. “States have an exemplary
safety and environmental protection record when it comes to
hydraulic fracturing.”  Earthworks examined six states: Texas and  Pennsylvania ,
where fracking is booming; Colorado and Ohio, where the group
said shale oil and gas development will expand; New Mexico,
where natural-gas output has been  declining ; and  New York , which
in 2010 halted hydraulic fracturing.  The nonprofit group, which says it works to expose health
and environmental impacts from mining, said New Mexico, New York
and Ohio regulators initiate few enforcement actions each year.
In Texas and Pennsylvania, “numerous oil and gas operators are
repeat violators,” according to the report.  Colorado, after resolving a backlog of enforcement cases,
collected more fines in 2011 compared with the previous year,
Earthworks said in the report.  “A strong regulatory program aligns well with a healthy,
productive industry that is providing the state and the country
with energy essential to all of us in in our daily lives,” Todd
Hartman, spokesman for the Colorado Department of Natural
Resources, said today in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  