-- Stryker Recalls Neptune Devices After Death Reported
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-09-25T20:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/stryker-recalls-neptune-devices-after-death-reported.html
Stryker Corp. (SYK)  stopped selling three
versions of its Neptune Waste Management System after two people
were harmed, one fatally, using the devices that were sold
without formal clearance by U.S. regulators.  Stryker initiated a Class 1 recall, the most serious device
withdrawal, on June 5 after two reports of serious injury from
the products used to collect fluid waste during surgery, the
Kalamazoo, Michigan-based company said today in a statement. In
one instance, a patient’s passive chest drainage tube was hooked
to the Neptune 2 System, a high-vacuum, high-flow device. The
patient died, Stryker said.  The initial recall was intended to inform customers that
the devices shouldn’t be connected to passive drainage tubes, a
warning that wasn’t on the label. The company extended the
recall on Sept. 18 to inform customers that the Neptune 1
Silver, Neptune 2 Ultra and a higher-powered Neptune 2 Ultra
don’t have  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  approval.  The FDA doesn’t consider the devices “to be legally
marketed devices because their safety and effectiveness have not
yet been determined,” the company said in the statement. “As
such, FDA advises that the devices not be used.”  Stryker stopped distributing the devices. Customers who
don’t have an alternative machine available should weigh the
risks and benefits of the recalled Neptune devices and request a
certificate of medical necessity if they plan to continue using
them, the company said.  Stryker fell less than 1 percent to $55.98 at the close in
 New York . The shares have risen 21 percent in the past 12
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  