-- How Social Dynamics Made You Successful
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-09-25T22:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/sugar-man-s-lesson-for-markets-and-politicians.html
“Searching for Sugar Man” is a
stunning documentary  about  an unsuccessful  Detroit  singer-
songwriter named Sixto Rodriguez, who released two long-
forgotten albums in the early 1970s. Almost no one bought his
albums, and his label dropped him. Rodriguez stopped making
records and worked as a demolition man.  What Rodriguez didn’t know, while working in demolition,
was that he had become a spectacular success in South Africa --
a giant, a legend, comparable to the Beatles and the  Rolling
Stones . Describing him as “the soundtrack to our lives,”  South
Africans   bought  hundreds of thousands of copies of his albums,
starting in the 1970’s. “Searching for Sugar Man” is about the
contrast between the failed career of Detroit’s obscure
demolition man and the renown of South Africa’s mysterious rock
icon.  The film is easily taken as a real-world fairy tale, barely
believable, a  story  so extraordinary that it gives new meaning
to “you couldn’t make it up.” But it is a bit less extraordinary
than it seems, and it offers a profound lesson not only for
music and culture markets, but for business and politics, as
well.  We like to think that intrinsic quality produces success,
and that in free markets, quality will ultimately prevail. To be
sure, quality is usually necessary, but it’s not enough.  Social Dynamics  Social dynamics -- who is conveying enthusiasm to whom, and
how loudly, and where, and exactly when -- can separate the rock
icon from the demolition man, and mark the line between stunning
success and crashing failure. An understanding of those dynamics
tells us a lot about the role of serendipity in cultural
markets, business, politics and other domains -- and about why
success and failure can be impossible to predict.  Consider some evidence. A few years ago, social scientists
 Matthew Salganik , Duncan Watts and Peter Dodds  created  a large-
scale version of the tale of Rodriguez, in the form of an
artificial music market on a website. More than 14,000 visitors
to the site were given a list of 48 unknown songs from unknown
bands. The experimenters randomly sorted half of the visitors
into an “independent judgment” group, in which they were invited
to listen to brief excerpts, to rate songs and to decide whether
to download them. The other half were sorted into a “social
influence” group, which was exactly the same except in just one
respect: They could see how many times each song had been
downloaded by other participants.  People in the social influence group were also randomly
assigned to one of eight subgroups, in which they could see only
the number of downloads in their own subgroup. You might expect
that in the end, quality would always prevail -- that the
popularity of the songs, as measured by their download rankings,
would be roughly the same in the independent group and in all
eight of the social influence groups.  That isn’t what happened. The identical song could be a big
hit or a miserable flop, depending on whether a lot of other
people were seen to have downloaded it. True, the songs that did
most fabulously in the independent group rarely did very badly,
and the songs that did most horribly in the independent group
rarely did spectacularly well -- but otherwise, almost anything
could happen.  Social dynamics made  Rodriguez  in  South Africa  and broke
him in the U.S. Every day, social dynamics make or break books,
movies, art and countless other products. Plenty of best-
sellers, made possible by bandwagon or cascade effects, could
easily have switched places with books that you have never heard
of.  Parallel Worlds  Actually the implications are far broader than that. On
election day for the 2010 congressional races, certain Facebook
users received a social message, a clickable “I voted,”
including six pictures of randomly selected Facebook friends who
had previously clicked that “I voted” button.  Presented with 
those pictures, people were more likely to vote, and as a result
of the experiment, hundreds of thousands of Americans who would
not otherwise have voted ended up doing so.  We could easily imagine a parallel experiment with the
message, “I didn’t vote,” and it would almost certainly depress
voting. In fact, we could easily imagine many influential
clickable messages on social media (“I bought a fuel-efficient
vehicle,” or “I stopped smoking,” or “I love the  Chicago Bears ,”
or “I bought a Sixto Rodriguez CD”).  Successful entrepreneurs, social movements and politicians
benefit from the same dynamics that produce best-selling albums.
 Franklin Roosevelt  and  Ronald Reagan  were immensely talented and
appealing, but countless people voted and worked for them only
because they saw that other people were doing so. Other
immensely talented and appealing politicians go nowhere, only
because they fail to catch an early wave. Science fiction’s
“parallel worlds,” exploring how differently history might have
turned out, are not as far-fetched as they seem.  True, we can always try to reclaim inevitability by
generating after-the-fact explanations of both success and
failure. It is tempting to think that Rodriguez did well in
South Africa because his songs spoke especially well to that
nation’s citizens in the apartheid period. Maybe Rodriguez did
poorly in the U.S. because of anti-Hispanic  prejudice  (as some
have speculated).  Maybe, but it’s doubtful. With a few twists of fate and the
right social boost at the right time, Rodriguez could have
become a big star in the U.S. And without some serendipitous
word-of-mouth at the early stages, he wouldn’t have become an
icon in South Africa.  History is only run once, so we will never know for sure.
What we do know is that social dynamics play a big role in the
marketplace and democratic politics -- and help to explain why
success and failure can be predictably unpredictable.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View  columnist . He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and, most
recently, the author of “On Rumors: How Falsehoods Spread.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Barack Obama’s mixed success
at the UN  and on  Iceland’s economic recovery ;  Margaret Carlson 
on how Republicans  learned to love Todd Akin ; Clive Crook on
 India’s reform push ; Jonathan Mahler on the  NFL’s enigmatic game
plan for its referees ;  Peter Orszag  on how  a longer school day
benefits Chicago students ;  Jeff Rubin  on the  environmental
consequences  of the Keystone XL pipeline.  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 