-- Swiss National Bank Says S&P Bond Estimate Is ‘Unfounded’
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t ,   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   P a u l   V e r s c h u u r
-- 2012-09-25T18:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/swiss-national-bank-bought-eu80-billion-euro-core-debt-s-p-says.html
The  Swiss National Bank  said a
 Standard & Poor’s  report that it spent about 80 billion euros
($104 billion) this year through July buying debt from the so-
called core euro-area countries is “unfounded.”  The decision by Switzerland’s central bank to stem the
appreciation of the franc has led to a “de facto recycling” of
funds into Germany, France, the Netherlands,  Finland  and
Austria, S&P credit analysts led by  Frank Gill  in London wrote
in a report today. That’s “significantly benefited yield levels
on the most-liquid euro-zone sovereign bonds, not least German
and French government-debt securities,” they wrote.  The SNB said in an e-mailed statement the report contains a
“fundamental error” and its conclusion is incorrect.  “It ignores the sizable increase of SNB deposits with
other central banks and international institutions, which are
published monthly by the SNB,” the Zurich-based bank said.
“The conclusion by S&P that the  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  has bought
about 80 billion euros of government bonds of core euro-zone
countries is unfounded.”  Company View  In an e-mail statement, S&P said “we stand by the
conclusions of our report.  “Irrespective of the rise in SNB deposits with other
central banks (which has risen by significantly less this year
than bonds held by the SNB), our analysis and the SNB’s own data
suggest a very substantial increase in SNB purchases of core
euro-zone government debt in recent months,” S&P said. “The SNB
does not disclose the make-up of its bond holdings, but we
believe the assumptions underpinning our analysis are
reasonable.”  The S&P report said the Swiss central bank’s euro-area bond
buying in the period was about 48 percent of the estimated
combined full-year deficits for the euro-area’s core for 2012.
That’s up from 9 percent in the full-year 2011.  French and Austrian bonds have advanced since S&P
downgraded both the nations to AA+ from AAA on Jan. 13. The
yield on French 10-year debt dropped to a record-low 2.002
percent on Aug. 3 and was at 2.28 percent as of 5:17 p.m.  London 
time today, from 3.08 percent the day it was downgraded.
Similar-maturity Austrian  debt  yielded 2.13 percent, down from
3.07 percent on Jan. 13.  Credit Ratings  While the SNB “has probably contributed to keep rates at
all-time lows for the core governments, their ratings do not
depend on the SNB policy,” the S&P analysts wrote in the
report. The ratings “reflect our views on the fundamental
factors determining sovereigns’ ability to service financial
obligations.”  Foreign-exchange reserves  held by the SNB soared to 79
percent of Swiss gross domestic product in mid-2012, from 15
percent at the same period in 2008, the credit-rating company
said.  The SNB’s currency holdings reached 365 billion francs
($391 billion) in the four months through June. Money held at
central banks, the  International Monetary Fund  and the  Bank for
International Settlements  accounted for 72 percent of the gain.  The SNB introduced the currency ceiling on Sept. 6, 2011,
after the franc’s surge to near parity with the euro raised
deflation threats and eroded export competitiveness.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Verschuur in Zurich at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  