-- U.K. Targets Doubling of Security Exports by Rio Olympic Games
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-09-25T14:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/u-k-targets-doubling-of-security-exports-by-rio-olympic-games.html
Smiths Group Plc (SMIN) , the maker of
airport security equipment, may benefit as the U.K. tries to
double security exports that last year were worth 2.6 billion
pounds ($4.2 billion) on the heels of the  London  Olympic Games.  “The global export market is about 62 billion pounds. So
far the U.K. has a pretty small share, which is why we think
there is huge scope to do more,” Simon Everest, head of the
U.K. Trade & Investment’s Defense & Security Organisation said
in an interview. The U.K. has a 20 percent market share on
global defense exports and would like security sales overseas to
reach similar levels.  The government has been trying to push exports to help
sustain domestic manufacturing at a time of shrinking outlays at
home. Britain’s security industry employs around 165,000 workers
and exports reached 2.6 billion pounds last year, according to
the U.K. Trade and Investment agency. Global security spending
is expected to reach 330 billion pounds by 2015, the U.K.
projects.  The London games were used to showcase British companies
from those involved in planning event security --including venue
design -- to providing border check equipment. The U.K. sees
around 1.5 billion pounds in contracts up for grabs between the
Sochi winter games in  Russia  in 2014 and the Rio de Janeiro
Olympics in 2016.  Brazil-Focused  By the time of the next summer  Olympic Games , security
exports should top 6 billion pounds, Everest said. To help, the
U.K. government devoted one day during its London Olympics
hosting activities focused on  Brazil .  Security provisions for the London Olympic and Paralympic
games were overshadowed by the failure of  G4S Plc (GFS)  to provide
enough staff, forcing the government to deploy troops for extra
protection. Everest said however that the games were a success
story overall, with no incidents and little intrusion of
security procedures into sport activities.  Smiths Group, based in London, is looking at business
opportunities with Brazil’s two large events, the company said
in an e-mailed statement. The company had pulled out of bidding
for the London games, citing onerous conditions associated with
the process.  G4S Chief Executive Officer Nick Buckles has said the
company would not bid on the security contract for the 2014
soccer  World Cup  in Brazil or the Rio games two years later. The
company still sees scope to win some security consultancy work
related to those events.  Meeting the U.K.’s target for growth in security exports
will also require sustained increases in cybersecurity related
exports. Those represented about a third of the total last year.  “Cybersecurity is absolutely the biggest growth area,”
Everest said in the Sept. 20 interview, showing annual sales
increases of 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  