-- U.S. August Imports of Steel Products Report (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-09-25T14:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/u-s-august-imports-of-steel-products-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
steel report from the Commerce Department:  The U.S. Census Bureau announced today that preliminary August
steel imports were $2.6 billion (2.2 million metric tons)
compared to the preliminary July totals of $2.7 billion (2.3
million metric tons).  The year to date final statistics through July 2012 showed steel
imports of 18.5 million metric tons compared with 15.7 million
metric tons through July 2011. The largest commodity increases
occurred primarily in oil country goods and blooms, billets, and
slabs. The largest country increases occurred primarily with
 Brazil ,  Russia , and  Turkey ; decreases occurred primarily with
Australia and Mexico.  The August change in steel imports based on metric tonnage
reflected decreases primarily in line pipes and hot rolled
sheets. Decreases occurred primarily with  Korea ; increases
occurred primarily with Turkey.  Notes:  The data in this report are preliminary and subject to
revisions.  Analysis of recent months for steel product imports indicates
the value of preliminary data should equal about 96 percent of
the final value reported in the regular monthly trade statistics
report.  Preliminary data reported for individual steel
categories and at the individual country of origin level have
been less consistently predictive of the final data reported in
the regular monthly trade statistics. For further details, visit
the Foreign Trade Division web site at www.census.gov/trade. On
the website, you can access product by country and country by
product tables.  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department      http://www.bea.gov   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  