-- U.S. House Ethics Panel Takes No Action Against Waters
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-09-25T18:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/u-s-house-ethics-panel-takes-no-action-against-waters.html
California U.S. Representative
Maxine Waters was cleared by the House Ethics Committee of
allegations that she helped get a government bailout for a
struggling bank in which her husband owned stock.  The panel, which said at a Sept. 21 hearing that it was
prepared to take no action against Waters, voted unanimously to
exonerate her. The committee accepted the recommendation of its
outside counsel, Washington lawyer  Billy Martin , that there was
not “clear and convincing evidence” of ethical wrongdoing.  Members “concluded that Representative Waters did not
violate any House rule, law, regulation or other applicable
standard of conduct,” the panel said in a report released
today.  The decision boosts her chances of becoming the top
Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee when the next
Congress takes office in January. She is next in line by
seniority following the retirement of Massachusetts Democrat
 Barney Frank  to be the ranking member as well as to be chairman,
in the event Democrats win control of the House.  In late 2009, the committee began investigating allegations
that Waters, 74, brought discredit to the House by helping
OneUnited Bank of Boston obtain $12 million from the Troubled
Asset Relief Program. The allegations were referred to the panel
by the Office of Congressional Ethics, an independent watchdog
unit that started the probe.  Chief of Staff  The allegations weren’t revived after the newly elected
Congress took office in 2011. Martin was initially hired to
review alleged misconduct by ethics panel staff lawyers who
resigned, according to the committee’s report. He then examined
evidence against Waters and her chief of staff, Mikael Moore, to
determine whether to reopen the investigation.  At the panel’s Sept. 21 hearing, Martin told the panel
there was insufficient evidence that Waters or Moore broke House
rules. Martin said there wasn’t “clear and convincing”
evidence that Moore, who is Waters’s grandson, knowingly
violated House rules by helping OneUnited get the government
bailout.  Still, Martin said investigators were “troubled” by
inconsistencies in Moore’s testimony that raise “substantial
issues of credibility.” He recommended that the panel consider
some type of move against Moore short of formal action.  The committee issued a letter of reproval to Moore, saying
he brought discredit to the House and sought to use his official
position for personal gain by helping OneUnited.  ‘Dramatic Appearances’  Moore’s actions “created dramatic appearances of conflict
with your employing member’s personal financial interests” and
“violated your obligation to behave in a manner that reflects
creditably on the House,” said the letter by the panel’s acting
chairman, Virginia Republican Bob Goodlatte, and acting ranking
member, Kentucky Democrat John Yarmuth.  The report disclosed that the lengthy legal battle with
Waters may have been avoided but for incorrect advice from a
former chief counsel.  The original investigative subcommittee was prepared in
2010 to simply criticize Waters for failing to supervise Moore,
and to take no disciplinary action. Still, it issued a statement
of violations after the committee’s chief counsel advised that
the rules required such an action. The former chief counsel also
predicted, incorrectly, that Waters wouldn’t contest such a
finding, the report said.  ‘Not Warranted’  “Contrary to the advice of the former chief counsel, it is
inappropriate” to issue a statement of violations “where the
committee concludes that disciplinary findings and sanctions are
not warranted,” the panel said.  At the Sept. 21 hearing, panel members scoffed at Moore’s
contention that he didn’t know that Waters’s husband, Sidney
Williams, had a financial interest in the bank. Moore said he
was helping other minority-owned banks get government help, not
just OneUnited.  Representative Donna Edwards, a Maryland Democrat, told
Moore his action “strains the notion of credibility that you
didn’t know” about Waters’s indirect financial interest in the
bank.  “It is clear that Ms. Waters knew that she had a conflict
of interest,” Edwards said.  Martin said Waters should be exonerated because evidence
shows that she “took the important step” of instructing Moore
“not to specifically assist OneUnited.” The investigation
found no “clear and convincing” evidence that she “failed to
supervise her staff,” he said.  Henry Paulson  Martin also reviewed evidence that Waters called then-
Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  to request a meeting on behalf
of minority banks that were hurt by the government takeover of
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  The evidence showed that when Waters called Paulson, “she
believed she was acting on behalf of all minority banks” in the
National Bankers Association, a Washington-based trade group,
Martin said.  Paulson didn’t attend a Sept. 9, 2008, meeting between
Treasury officials and two OneUnited executives, according to
committee documents.  OneUnited sought government assistance in September 2008
because it held “substantial investments” in Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, according to the panel’s 2010 statement of alleged
violations by Waters. Without a government financial rescue,
OneUnited stock owned by Waters’s husband would have been
worthless, the committee alleged.  Price Drop  The shares were valued at almost $352,000 in June 2008 and
dropped to $175,000 four months later, after federal regulators
placed  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac in a conservatorship, the
committee said. OneUnited received $12 million from TARP, plus
$17 million in private investment.  The investigation was delayed by allegations that two
former staff lawyers improperly shared information about the
Waters case with Republican members of the panel. Martin
concluded that none of the panel’s members was biased by the
leaks. Still, six members of the panel recused themselves from
the case and six acting members were appointed to help oversee
the Waters inquiry.  In today’s report, the panel chided the committee for
fostering the “perception” that members and staff “were
acting on a partisan basis.”  The committee “works best when, and demands that, members
exercise their own independent and nonpartisan judgment,”
according to the report. It “must operate on the principles of
open, frank and nonpartisan communications.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  