-- U.S. Company Credit-Default Swaps Rise on Global Growth Concern
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-09-25T21:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/u-s-corporate-credit-default-swaps-rise-as-spain-weighs-bailout.html
A gauge of U.S corporate credit
risk rose for the second time this week amid signs that policy
makers may be slow to curb  Europe ’s debt crisis and to stimulate
global economic growth.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, surged 4.2 basis points to a mid-price of
102.6 basis points at 5:36 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts tied to  Ryder (R)  System Inc. rose
to the highest level in more than six weeks.  The swaps index climbed as  Spain ’s Deputy Prime Minister
Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said the country needs to know how
much debt the  European Central Bank  plans to purchase before
deciding whether it needs assistance. At a bill auction in
 Madrid , the yield on three-month notes rose to 1.203 percent
from 0.946 percent when those securities were last auctioned on
Aug. 28.  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said the new bond-purchase plan announced by the Fed
Sept. 13 is unlikely to boost growth or hiring. A slow response
to the  European debt crisis  and weak U.S. economic growth could
make it more difficult for companies to repay debts, increasing
risks to bondholders.  “We had a nice rally leading up to quantitative easing and
credit is arguably a big beneficiary of QE3,” Adam Richmond,
the New York-based head of U.S. high-yield strategy at Morgan
Stanley, said in reference to the swaps index. “But in the last
week there’s been some profit taking and digesting the news that
has made spreads widen.”  ArcelorMittal Issue  The swaps measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, sold $650
million of 8.75 percent, dollar-denominated subordinated
perpetual securities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The offering is the company’s first since being downgraded
to junk on Aug. 2 by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited uncertainty
about ArcelorMittal’s debt-reduction plan and a weakening steel
industry.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt was
unchanged today. The spread on speculative-grade debt increased
6 basis points, led by energy companies, which widened 9 basis
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ryder Swaps  Default swaps tied to Miami, Florida-based Ryder rose 12.4
basis points to 170.3 basis points, the highest level since Aug.
13, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The contracts reached a 12-week low of 137.3
basis points on Sept. 12.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North America High Yield
Index rose 26 basis points to 497 basis points, the highest in
two weeks. The gauge of speculative-grade companies’ default
risk will begin the switch to a new series on Sept. 27,
replacing firms that no longer have appropriate credit grades or
that aren’t among the most actively traded borrowers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  