-- U.S. Airlines See EU Emissions Bill as Forcing Talks
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-09-25T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/u-s-airlines-see-eu-emissions-bill-as-forcing-talks.html
Legislation to prevent U.S.
airlines from paying penalties under a European Union program to
limit emissions may give the Obama administration a stronger
hand in international talks on the issue, an airline group says.  “Our goal is to give the administration as many tools as
possible to limit the impact” of the policy on U.S. carriers,
Sean Kennedy, senior vice president for global government
affairs at Airlines for America, said in a phone interview.  The industry group, whose members include  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL) ,  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , supports
the bill, which the Senate passed Sept. 22. The 27-member EU’s
Emission Trading System would impose financial penalties on
airlines for breaching certain air-pollution limits unless they
obtain credits. U.S. carriers consider the measure a tax and say
it violates international law.  A trade war could ignite if there is no resolution to the
dispute, said  Annie Petsonk , a lawyer for the Environmental
Defense Fund in Washington, said in an interview.  “The trade war would start out as a war of retaliatory
fees against retaliatory fees,” Petsonk said.  While the bill makes its way through through Congress,
negotiators are working through the United Nation’s 191-member
 International Civil Aviation Organization , or ICAO, to reach an
agreement on emissions reductions, the path favored by U.S.
airlines.  UN Negotiations  Negotiations at the UN’s International Civil Aviation
Organization would give a greater voice to other opponents of
the EU’s emissions-trading program, including  China  and  Russia .  “Diplomatic efforts are not working,” Kennedy said.
“What the White House needs to do is file a lawsuit before ICAO
on behalf of the  airline industry , its employees and travelers
who depend on it every day.”  The U.S. legislation “clearly puts a lot of pressure on
U.S. negotiators and the UN to come up with a global solution,”
Jake Schmidt, international climate-policy director for the
 Natural Resources Defense Council , said in an interview.  The EU program caps greenhouse-gas emissions for carriers,
including non-European based airlines, that fly to and from the
continent. Airlines can purchase allowances that would let them
exceed the pollution limits. Non-compliance would result in
penalties.  China has said it won’t buy emissions allowances, according
to a Sept. 17 report by the non-partisan  Congressional Research
Service .  The EU program regulates only carbon-dioxide emissions,
though airplane exhaust also includes nitrogen oxide and soot,
according to the research service.  Fuel Efficiency  From 1990 to 2009, emissions from aviation fuels sold in
the EU increased by 80 percent, while lower air fares, cargo
shipments and economic growth continue to increase the demand
for  air travel , the congressional agency’s report said.  U.S. airlines improved their fuel efficiency by 120 percent
from 1978 to 2011, the equivalent of removing 22 million autos
from the road, according to  Airlines for America . The reductions
were achieved by using fuel-saving engine technology and using
more direct routes to burn less fuel.  The EU has set a goal of cutting  Europe ’s greenhouse gas
emissions by 80 percent to 95 percent compared with 1990 levels.
Direct emissions from aviation account for an estimated 3
percent of the EU’s greenhouse gas emissions, most coming from
international flights, according to the European Commission.  Industry Tax  The aviation cap will cut airline emissions by 3 percent in
2012 and 5 percent from 2013 to 2020, the equivalent of taking
30 million cars off the road a year, according to the
commission.  Airlines for America, based in  Washington , has said the
program amounts to a  $3.1 billion tax  on the U.S. industry and
its customers through 2020. Other groups have said the costs are
negligible when spread among travelers.  “On most flights between the EU and the  United States , the
additional per-passenger cost will likely be less than $5 in the
near term, given the high proportion of free allowances”
according to the Congressional Research Service.  The House has passed separate legislation to exempt
airlines from participating in the program, and both chambers of
Congress must agree on a single bill. If that doesn’t happen
during the lame-duck session after the Nov. 6 elections, the
bills die.  An amendment to the Senate legislation offered by Senator
 Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat, prohibits taxpayer money from
being used for penalties U.S. airlines may incur under the EU
program.  Under existing U.S. law, the secretary of transportation
could impose fees on European carriers if the agency determines
the EU policy to be unfair, according to the Environmental
Defense Fund’s Petsonk.  “If the U.S. imposed retaliatory penalties, Europe could
say, ‘You’re discriminating against our airlines’” and assess
its own penalties, she said. “That where you would see the
trade war erupt.”  The bill is S. 1956.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  