-- Hungary Cuts Rate Again as Decision Polarizes Rate Body
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-09-25T14:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/hungary-eyes-rate-cut-as-slump-trumps-inflation-concerns.html
Hungary ’s central bank lowered its
benchmark  interest rate  for a second month and forecast further
cuts, widening a rift among policy makers over price growth.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  reduced the two-week deposit rate
to 6.5 percent, still the European Union’s highest, from 6.75
percent with a “tight majority” over a proposal for no change,
bank President Andras Simor said today in Budapest. The decision
matched the forecast of 17 of 29 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  The central bank last month lowered the main rate for the
first time since April 2010 as the four non-executive members of
the Monetary Policy Council, appointed by Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s allies in parliament, outvoted Simor and his two
deputies, citing a need to help an ailing economy. With the
economy mired in its second recession since 2009, Hungary is in
talks to obtain a loan from the  International Monetary Fund .  “Overall, expected developments in inflation and financial
markets as well as persistently weak demand warrant an easing of
current monetary conditions,” the rate-setters said in their
statement. “The council will consider a further reduction in
interest rates if the improvement in financial  market sentiment 
persists and medium-term upside risks to inflation remain
moderate.”  Forint Weakens  The forint has been the world’s best-performing currency
this year as investors bet the government will obtain an IMF
backstop. The currency rose 11.2 percent against the euro even
after dropping 2 percent from its level before the Aug. 28 rate
cut. The forint traded at 283.5 per euro at 2:04 p.m. in
Budapest, down 0.3 percent from yesterday. It plunged 15
percent, the most in the world, in the second half of last year.  The statement’s language, reflecting the majority opinion,
contrast with the bank’s quarterly forecasts published today,
which Simor said showed that a 6.75 percent main rate was needed
to slow inflation to the targeted 3 percent level
“sustainably” and even then it would only be achieved in the
second half of 2014. The August inflation rate was 6 percent.  Underscoring divisions on the council, Simor on Sept. 13
called the cut “pointless” with inflation at double the bank’s
3 percent target. The move cast doubt on the bank’s commitment
to tackle price growth and did little to boost an economy held
back by subdued lending and investments, he said.  Majority View  He declined to give his personal opinion today saying his
job at the post-decision news briefing was to represent the
majority view. Simor said the decision to cut was made
“despite” the central bank staff’s forecasts.  “Simor is clearly quite uncomfortable with the current
rate-easing stance,” Timothy Ash, head of emerging-market
research at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , said in an e-
mail. “The doves on the MPC seem to be in the ascendancy.”  Hungary’s cost to insure debt for five years with credit
default swaps fell to 386 basis points today from 423 basis
points before the August rate cut and compared with 630 basis
points on June 5. The yield on the government bond maturing in
2022 dropped 23 basis points to 7.23 percent in the period.  Investors are pricing in further rate cuts this year.
Forward-rate agreements used to bet on three-month interest
rates in three months dropped to 6.22 percent before the rate
decision, the lowest in a year. The contracts traded 69 basis
points below the three-month Budapest Interbank Offered Rate,
indicating a year-end rate of as low as 6 percent.  Regional Peers  As demand for exports wanes in the 17-nation euro region
amid the sovereign-debt crisis, the Czech central bank on Sept.
27 may cut its main rate to 0.25 percent from 0.5 percent,
already a record low. The Romanian central bank may keep its
main rate unchanged at 5.25 percent the same day, the median
estimate of economists in Bloomberg surveys show.  The central bank forecasts average inflation at 5 percent
in 2013, compared with a projection of 3.5 percent in June.
Gross domestic product will expand 0.7 percent next year versus
a projection for a 0.8 percent expansion published in June, the
bank said. The government sees 1.6 percent growth.  This year, inflation will average 5.8 percent, compared
with 5.3 percent forecast earlier, while GDP will decline 1.4
percent, versus minus 0.8 percent seen earlier, according to the
report. The August rate rose to 6 percent, the highest since
Jan. 2010, led by food and fuel prices.  The majority in the rate-setting Monetary Council said the
inflation target is “likely to be met as the direct effects of
cost shocks wear off.”  Deeper Slump  Hungary’s economy  shrank  1.3 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, after contracting 0.7 percent in the three
months through March. Industrial production fell 2.2 percent in
July from a year earlier as the economy plunged into a deeper
recession than previously forecast.  The Cabinet’s measures over the past two years, including a
special tax on lenders and nationalization of private-pension
funds, damaged investor confidence, contributed to a lowering of
the country’s credit rating and a cut in investments.  Hungary requested aid in November as its debt was
downgraded to junk. Negotiations for a loan of about 15 billion
euros ($19.4 billion) were delayed multiple times because of
Orban’s resistance to adhere to legal and economic conditions
set by the IMF and the EU.  Hungary is expecting to conclude negotiations by November,
chief aid negotiator Mihaly Varga said in an interview published
in the Magyar Nemzet newspaper Sept. 22.  Orban rejected IMF aid after coming to power in 2010 only
to ask for help after debt auctions failed and the forint
plunged to a record. Financing pressures have eased since the
 European Central Bank  on Sept. 6 pledged to buy the bonds of
troubled euro nations to help resolve the region’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  