-- United Utilities Takeover Bid in 2012 Is Seen as Unlikely
-- B y   N a d i n e   S k o c z y l a s   a n d   G a u r a v   P a n c h a l
-- 2012-09-25T12:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/united-utilities-takeover-bid-in-2012-is-seen-as-unlikely.html
United Utilities Group Plc (UU/) ,
Britain’s biggest publicly traded water company, is unlikely to
receive a takeover bid this year as the U.K. considers changes
to the way inflation is calculated, according to analysts.  United Utilities’ stock has gained 6.5 percent and rose six
of the past seven trading days amid reports in the U.K. press
that speculated about the possibility of a breakup bid.
Publications including the Guardian cited potential investors
such as the  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , Abu Dhabi funds,
China Investment Corp. and KKR & Co.  The bid talk for the Warrington-based utility occurred as
the U.K. Consumer Prices Advisory Committee in a Sept. 18
statement said it’s examining a gap that emerged between the
retail-price index and consumer-price index due to the way each
is calculated. The U.K. Statistics Authority will hold
consultations starting next month on possible changes.  “RPI is an important driver for revenues and value for
water companies,” Ian Mitchell, with JPMorgan specialist sales,
said in a Sept. 20 interview. “Proposed changes to how it is
calculated could negatively impact them. Any prospective bidder
would be better off waiting for the outcome of these changes to
make itself known.”  Alex Olvera, an analyst with the Marex Event Driven Team,
wrote in a note to clients on Sept. 19 that the profits of
United Utilities are “dependent on a clear formula for the
calculation of RPI” so any offer for the company likely
wouldn’t come until after that process is complete.  Sorted by Year-End  Any modification to the way inflation is calculated in the
U.K. should be sorted by the start of next year, Mitchell said.  In the last five years, U.K. water companies including
United Utilities,  Pennon Group Plc (PNN)  and  Severn Trent Plc (SVT)  have
seen a 16 percent boost to revenue and 17 percent increase to
Regulatory Capital Value on average due to RPI even after
accounting for recessionary and deflationary periods, Citigroup
Inc. wrote in a research note published Sept. 19.  United Utilities shares were 0.2 percent lower at 725.50
pence at 12:30 p.m. in London, trimming their gain this year to
20 percent. Severn Trent’s stock has also gained 20 percent in
2012 while Pennon has advanced 4 percent over the same period.  United Utilities spokesman Shaun Robinson declined to
comment on “City speculation” last week to Bloomberg regarding
what the Telegraph called “rehashed takeover” talk.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadine Skoczylas in Rome at 
 nelsibai@bloomberg.net ;
Gaurav Panchal in  London  at 
 gpanchal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  