-- Warner Music Says Lyor Cohen Resigns as CEO of Recorded Music
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-09-25T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/warner-music-says-lyor-cohen-resigns-as-ceo-of-recorded-music.html
Warner Music  Group, acquired by
billionaire Len Blavatnik last year, said Lyor Cohen resigned as
chairman and chief executive officer of the company’s recorded
music operation.  Cohen, who spent more than eight years at the company,
resigned effective Sept. 30, New York-based Warner Music said
yesterday in a statement. The announcement said he was seeking
new challenges, without elaborating.  Cohen, 52, who oversaw labels including Warner Bros.
Records, Atlantic Records and Rhino Entertainment, restructured
the business and led the transition to digital sales from CDs
and other physical formats, the company said. During his tenure,
Warner released albums by The Black Keys, Blake Shelton, Death
Cab For Cutie, Bruno Mars, Cee Lo Green and Flo Rida.  “Keep on keepin’ on in the tradition of a company that
respects and honors the artistic community,” Cohen said to
employees and artists, according to the statement.  Cohen came to Warner Music in 2004, after Edgar Bronfman Jr. acquired the record company from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  with
private equity firms including Thomas H. Lee Partners Inc. and
Bain Capital Partners LLP. He had been chairman and CEO of
 Universal Music ’s Island Def Jam Music Group and earlier worked
with Def-Jam co-founder  Russell Simmons  at Rush Management.  Warner Music this year unsuccessfully sought to buy EMI
Group in an auction won by  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music.  Following Cohen’s departure, senior label executives will
report to Stephen Cooper, chief executive officer of Warner
Music Group, according to the statement.  “Lyor Cohen has built something very special here,”
Cooper said. “While we understand his desire to move on to his
next challenge, the enduring success of our recorded music
division will serve as a great testament to the progress we’ve
made during Lyor’s time at WMG.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  