-- Watchdog Says Libor Should be Stopped in U.S. Bailouts
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-09-25T15:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/watchdog-says-libor-should-be-stopped-in-u-s-bailouts.html
The watchdog for the U.S. financial
crisis bailout program said the  Treasury Department  and Federal
Reserve should stop using the London interbank offered rate for
transactions tied to the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  “We can’t continue to use for TARP a measure in which
there’s no confidence or assurance that it’s reliable, which
could potentially be subject to manipulation,”  Christy Romero ,
special inspector general for TARP, said in an interview. The
Treasury’s Public-Private Investment Program, or PPIP, and the
Fed’s Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, or TALF,
should use rates other than Libor, she said.  “It’s easy to do because there are alternative interest
rates in the contracts for both those TARP programs,” Romero
said in the Sept. 21 interview.  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark interest rate for more
than $500 trillion of securities, was shaken following Barclays
Plc’s admission in June that it submitted false rates. Barclays
was fined 290 million pounds ($471 million) by regulators in the
U.S. and U.K.  Fed spokeswoman  Barbara Hagenbaugh  said in an e-mail
yesterday that the central bank had received the request from
Romero and plans to respond. Under TALF, a bailout program that
started operating in March 2009, the Fed lent funds to investors
in highly rated asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-
backed securities.  Student Loans  TALF supported the origination of almost 3 million auto
loans, more than 1 million student loans and 900,000 loans to
small businesses, the Fed said in a statement in June. The
program had no losses, according to the Fed.  The Treasury Department also has received Romero’s
recommendation on PPIP and plans to respond “shortly,”
spokesman  Matthew Anderson  said yesterday. PPIP was started in
2009 to help revive the mortgage-backed securities market. The
Treasury has estimated that taxpayers will get a $3 billion
profit from PPIP.  TARP was enacted under the George W. Bush administration
amid the 2008 financial crisis and continued under President
Barack Obama. The government used funds to rescue banks
including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
automakers  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  The U.S. cut its stake in insurer  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  to about 16 percent from 53 percent in a share sale
this month. The U.S. has recovered its full $182.3 billion
commitment to New York-based AIG with a profit. The $15.1
billion return includes results from the Fed portion of the
rescue, such as a  credit line  and the purchase of mortgage-
linked securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  