-- WellPoint Said to Hire Spencer Stuart to Lead CEO Search
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-09-25T20:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/wellpoint-said-to-hire-spencer-stuart-to-lead-ceo-search.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
U.S. health insurer, has chosen recruiting firm  Spencer Stuart  &
Associates Ltd. to lead its search for a new chief executive
officer, according to a person familiar with the decision.  The search firm was picked over candidates including
Chicago-based  Heidrick & Struggles International Inc. (HSII) , which
already has a contract with WellPoint for other recruiting work,
according to the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly
about the decision.  Former CEO Angela Braly resigned Aug. 28 after weeks of
investor unrest over the Indianapolis-based insurer’s sliding
profit forecasts and falling enrollment. The company has said it
expects the replacement search to take three to six months.  The choice of Spencer Stuart over Heidrick & Struggles
“could be viewed as a signal the focus of the search will
likely be an external candidate,” Brian Wright, a New York-
based insurance analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co., said in a
telephone interview.  WellPoint fell less than 1 percent to $58.48 at the close
of trading in New York. The shares have gained 1.9 percent since
Braly’s resignation.  Even before the CEO’s departure, investors had suggested
James Carlson, CEO at insurer Amerigroup Corp.; David Snow Jr.,
the former chief of Medco Health Solutions Inc.; and Gail Boudreaux, the head of the health plan division at UnitedHealth,
as possible replacements, said  Jason Gurda , of Leerink Swann &
Co. in New York, and Thomas Carroll, of Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore.  Replacement Touted  Names touted from within the company include Kenneth Goulet, an executive vice president, the analysts said in
telephone interviews last month.  “As we have previously disclosed, the board has
established a search committee, and will retain an outside
executive search firm to help manage the process of selecting
WellPoint’s next chief executive,” said Kristin Binns, a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Spencer Stuart previously has led executive and board
director hunts for companies including  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  and Talbots Inc. The firm also was hired by Hewlett-
Packard Co., the world’s largest personal-computer maker, in
August 2010 for the search that installed  Leo Apotheker  as CEO,
before he was pushed out 11 months later amid declining sales.  James Horton, a spokesman for Spencer Stuart, said in an e-
mail that client confidentiality agreements bar the recruiter
from confirming or denying any contracts.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , based in Minnetonka, Minnesota, is
the biggest U.S. health insurer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  