-- West Virginia Voting Map Upheld by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-09-25T15:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/west-virginia-voting-map-upheld-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  upheld West
Virginia’s congressional voting boundaries, saying the
population among districts can vary to protect incumbents and
keep counties and cities intact.  In an unsigned opinion with no dissents, the justices today
upheld a bipartisan redistricting plan that kept the state’s
three congressional districts largely unchanged. A lower court
had said the map violated the “one person, one vote” rule. The
high court today said that constitutional principle, which has
guided federal redistricting for 50 years, wasn’t an absolute.  “Our cases leave little doubt that avoiding contests
between incumbents and not splitting political subdivisions are
valid, neutral state districting policies,” the Supreme Court
said.  The justices also said states could seek to avoid shifting
voters into new districts.  Under  West Virginia ’s plan, the largest district has 4,871
more people than the smallest. West Virginia officials, who
created the districts under a bipartisan agreement after the
decennial census, said the size differences are minuscule, given
that each district has more than 600,000 people.  Population Equality  The Supreme Court first said in the 1960s that state
legislative districts must have approximately the same number of
people to comply with the Constitution. The court applied a
similar rule to congressional redistricting in 1964, saying
districts within a state must achieve population equality “as
nearly as is practicable.”  The high court invoked that decision in 1983 when it struck
down a New Jersey congressional redistricting plan because the
largest district was 0.70 percent larger than the average
district.  In voiding the West Virginia map on a 2-1 vote, a panel of
federal judges said the map’s variance of 0.79 percent could
have been avoided using computer software. The Supreme Court put
that ruling on hold in January, keeping the districts intact for
this year’s election.  The two county commissioners challenging the map said that
lawmakers never explained why they needed to create districts
with varied populations.  The state legislature “did not create a contemporaneous
record in any form sufficient to show that the 4,871-person
variance in this case, or any part thereof, was necessary to
achieve some legitimate goal,” Jefferson County Commissioners
Patricia Noland and Dale Manuel argued in court papers.  The challengers also contend that the redistricting plan
violates the West Virginia constitution. Today’s ruling didn’t
address that claim.  The case is Tennant v. Jefferson County Commission,
11-1184.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  