-- Why Republicans Will Learn to Love Todd Akin
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-09-25T22:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/why-republicans-will-learn-to-love-todd-akin.html
Maybe not today, maybe not
tomorrow, to paraphrase  Humphrey Bogart , but soon and for the
rest of its life, the  Republican Party  will thank Representative
Todd Akin.  He may cost them the Senate seat they thought they could
have gained in Missouri. But he may also allow them to gain
something even more valuable: a chance to seem almost reasonable
on abortion, just in time for the general election.  With one cockeyed answer last month to a question in a
 television interview  in  St. Louis , Akin made the rest of his
party look moderate. Fellow Republicans got to renounce his
remarks wholesale, especially the crazy part about how, if
victims of legitimate rape get pregnant, “the female body has
ways to try to shut that whole thing down.” Of course, the
party’s very own platform  opposes  abortion in the case of rape,
incest or life of the mother -- exceptions that, polls show, a
majority of Americans favor.  No matter. Better to denounce Akin than defend some
document that no one reads anyway. Perhaps best of all, and most
important to the party, Akin’s comment allowed presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  to appear centrist on abortion and detracted
attention from his running mate’s history on the subject, which
is  practically identical  to Akin’s.  Pea Pods  In Congress, Representative  Paul Ryan  and Akin were two
peas in a pod, with their sterling ratings from the National
Right to Life Committee, their votes to cut off funding for
 Planned Parenthood , and a bill requiring women to sit for a
lecture on fetal pain. They co-sponsored legislation that would
distinguish between types of rape (there’s forcible and non-
forcible), the same distinction Akin made in his fateful
interview, as well as “personhood” legislation, which is so
extreme even the Right-to-Life Committee has not taken an
official position on it.  Despite the alliance of Ryan and Akin, Romney didn’t ask
Ryan to quit the campaign, as he demanded of Akin. Instead, by
separating himself loudly from Akin while continuing to embrace
Ryan, Romney gets to be in his favorite position: having it both
ways. Ryan can still motivate pro-lifers for whom abortion is
often a prime issue. With Ryan, Romney can keep conservative
women voting Republican as they did in the 2010 midterms.  With Akin giving Romney room to move left, and Ryan
covering him from the right, the candidate was able to blow a
dog whistle on CBS’s “60 Minutes” this week. Here was Romney 3.0
-- the same Romney who supported a no-exceptions plank in the
2004 and 2008 platforms --  now emphasizing  what he thinks should
be allowed, not what shouldn’t be, and adding an exception that
went unnoticed. “I’m in favor of abortion being legal in the
case of rape and incest, and the health and life of the mother.”  A “health” exception is anathema to conservatives. It’s a
loophole so large an eight-months-pregnant teenager can squeeze
through a clinic door.  Moderates watching could be lulled into thinking Romney is,
well, moderate. Conservatives, meanwhile, might have just
decided to keep their mouths shut. Romney is already in enough
trouble without making abortion front and center.  Other Republican candidates got to do their own version of
the Romney. Senator  Scott Brown  of  Massachusetts , in a close
race against  Elizabeth Warren , was among the first Republicans
to call for Akin to drop out. Former Governor  Tommy Thompson  of
Wisconsin, in a close Senate race with Representative Tammy Baldwin,  said , “We all have a moral responsibility to come
together in opposition to crimes against women and support an
exception for abortion in the abhorrent situations where rape is
involved.” Thompson has apparently changed his mind since 2000,
when he served on the party platform committee.  Platform Pirouette  As for this year’s platform committee, the chairman was
Governor  Bob McDonnell  of  Virginia , famous for its proposal to
require an intrusive ultrasound for women seeking a legal
abortion within the first trimester. He tried to hide the clear
intent of this year’s platform, which is identical to Akin’s.
McDonnell argues that the platform doesn’t force a woman to bear
a rapist’s child and that it is up to the states to make her.  McDonnell’s fellow Republican in Virginia, former Governor
George Allen, is in a tight Senate contest with former
Democratic Governor  Tim Kaine . Allen denounced Akin’s comments
“and the sentiments behind them,” even though as a senator in
2004 Allen  voted to confirm  a federal judge who said that
“concern for rape victims is a red herring because conceptions
from rape occur with approximately the same frequency as
snowfall in Miami.”  All Republican Senate candidates got distance from Akin
when Senator  John Cornyn , chairman of the  National Republican
Senatorial Committee , called Akin “wrong, offensive, and
indefensible” and cut off his money.  None of these sticks and stones prompted Akin to withdraw
by the 5 p.m. Sept. 25 deadline. Before he was battered by his
party, Akin led incumbent Senator  Claire McCaskill . She now
leads by six points in  one recent poll , a lead that is likely to
grow when she unleashes a fusillade of ads -- the  first of which 
aired just minutes after the deadline had passed.  For better or worse, Akin is now the party's candidate. So 
Republicans will eventually have to find a way to retreat from 
their bombardment of him. That might be hard for some candidates,
but there is one prominent member of the party for whom it 
shouldn’t be a problem: Mitt Romney has had a lot of practice 
changing his position.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Barack Obama’s mixed success
at the UN  and on  Iceland’s economic recovery ; Clive Crook on
 India’s reform push ; Jonathan Mahler on the  NFL’s enigmatic game
plan for its referees ;  Peter Orszag  on how  a longer school day
benefits Chicago students ; Cass R. Sunstein on  what Sixto
Rodriguez can teach markets and politicians ;  Jeff Rubin  on the
 environmental consequences  of the Keystone XL pipeline.  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 