-- Xbox Challenged as Cable Plots to Make Consoles Obsolete
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-09-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/xbox-challenged-as-cable-plots-to-make-consoles-obsolete.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ)  and   Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  are gearing up for a push to
deliver video games directly to televisions, said people with
knowledge of the matter, a strategy shift that poses a threat to
traditional consoles such as the PlayStation, Wii and Xbox.  Trials of cloud-gaming services are likely to start later
this year so carriers can test and tweak the technology before
wider deployments that may begin as early as 2013, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the discussions are
private. Other carriers are aiming for 2014, the people said.  If successful, Web-based games could accelerate a shift
away from consoles, the industry’s main money maker for the past
three decades.  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Nintendo Co. have
helped to build a market worth $24.1 billion in the U.S. in
2011, according to NPD Group Inc. Consumers are already dumping
consoles in favor of games on smartphones and tablets, leading
to a 39 percent decline in video-game hardware sales last month
from a year earlier.  “Everybody has a TV,” said Atul Bagga, a video-games
analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in San Francisco. Cable and
phone companies are “looking for new ways to monetize their
users and gaming can be pretty compelling,” he said.  By adding popular games to their TV, Internet and phone
packages, carriers can offer another service to their almost 50
million digital TV  subscribers .  Real Time  In addition to AT&T, Verizon and Time Warner Cable,  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  and Cox Communications Inc. are also in talks to offer
video-gaming services, the people said. They’re all looking to
go beyond social games from  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and casual games such as
“Tetris” and “Solitaire,” with technology that can deliver
the most advanced action games from top publishers such as
 Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)   For technology, the carriers are turning to startups such
as  Playcast Media Systems ,  CiiNOW Inc.  and Agawi Inc., which
provide software to speed delivery of real-time gaming.
Executives at each of those companies acknowledged that they’re
in talks with U.S. carriers, declining to say which ones.  Alex Dudley , a spokesman for Time Warner Cable, which had
12.3 million subscribers as of mid-2012, and  Jennifer Khoury , a
spokeswoman for Comcast, which had 22.1 million subscribers,
declined to comment.  Jan Rasmussen, a spokeswoman for AT&T, said in a statement
the company is “exploring unique ways to offer cloud gaming
services to our TV and broadband customers.” AT&T had 4.15
million subscribers for its U-verse TV services as of June.  Console Model  Deidre Hart, a spokeswoman for Verizon, said that while the
company has the capability, it doesn’t currently “offer
anything regarding HD cloud gaming.” Shana Keith, a spokeswoman
for Cox, said the company is exploring a number of cloud-based
broadband services, declining to provide specifics.  Verizon had 4.47 million TV subscribers, while Cox had 4.66
million,  according  to the  National Cable & Telecommunications
Association .  With cloud gaming, consumers will be able to avoid buying
Sony’s PlayStation 3, Microsoft’s Xbox 360 or Nintendo’s Wii,
and play using generic controllers connected to their set-top
box or TV. Some carriers are looking at software that turns
smartphones into controllers, the people said.  Wider cloud-gaming adoption would be a significant shift
from the console business model pioneered by Atari Inc. in the
’70s and advanced by Nintendo in the ’80s -- selling machines at
a slim profit or loss and making money on royalties from game
cartridges or discs.  Jigsaw Puzzle  Manufacturers have built online accounts and data centers
for current console subscribers in order to offer games,
interactive environments and prepare for networked gaming.  Xbox
Live , Microsoft’s online service, lets gamers play together, buy
games and use other devices.  Carriers still have to get the technology in place. To
stream games from remote servers to multiple devices
simultaneously, they need to license virtualization technology.
And to make the experience comparable to that of a console, they
also must incorporate powerful graphics processors into their
data centers, replacing chips used in consoles.  Putting all those pieces together proved too difficult for
OnLive Inc., a startup backed by units of AT&T and Time Warner
Inc., which went through a restructuring last month after
failing to attract enough $9.99-a-month subscribers to its
cloud-gaming system. Gaikai Inc., a competitor in the market,
agreed to be bought earlier this year by Sony for $380 million.  Execution Challenge  Large service providers have an advantage because they have
deeper pockets, big data centers and an existing subscriber
base. Still, delivering a cloud service with the same quality as
game consoles and creating a profitable business will be a
challenge, said Mitch Lasky, a partner at venture firm  Benchmark
Capital  in  Menlo Park , California, and an early investor in
Gaikai.  “It makes perfect sense why they would want to go after
this market,” said Lasky, who was previously an executive at
Electronic Arts. “Streaming games use a ton of bandwidth and
really benefit from good networks. But it’s a gnarly execution
problem they’re trying to solve.”  Nvidia Corp., a maker of graphics processors, has been
building technology for data-centers and said earlier this year
that it’s working on implementing it in a way that game service
providers can use. The company is making a big bet on cloud
gaming, said Tony Tamasi, a senior vice president.  “It’s a substantial investment of both hardware and
software,” said Tamasi, though he declined to name the
company’s partners. “We’ve put stuff into our chips
specifically to enable this kind of functionality.”  Stream Games  For game publishers, cloud gaming makes sense because they
can develop for a single platform rather than for each of the
various consoles, which costs more money. Frank Gibeau,
president of Electronic Arts Labels, said games via Web-based TV
will eventually be a “big opportunity,” without giving a time
frame.  While networks in the U.S. are preparing for cloud gaming,
services have already emerged in other countries, including
 Portugal , France, Singapore and South Korea. Playcast, based in
 Israel , has partnered with carriers in each of those countries
to stream games to set-top boxes and televisions.  In July, Playcast announced a  deal  with South Korea’s CJ
Hellovision to make a gaming service available to the cable
operator’s 3.51 million subscribers. Last year, Playcast
 partnered  with  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  for a S$9.99
($8) a month subscription service that included titles from
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and Atari.  CiiNOW, based in  Mountain View , California, is about to
begin its fourth European trial, though Chief Executive Officer
Ron Haberman declined to name the carriers. U.S. cable and phone
companies need to catch up, he said.  “If there was ever a service that fit network providers,
it’s this one,” Haberman said. “2013 is going to be when we
see big commercial offerings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  