-- Yahoo’s Mayer Hires Goldman to Replace Tim Morse as CFO
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-09-26T20:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/yahoo-names-ken-goldman-cfo-to-start-next-month-succeeding-morse.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  hired  Ken Goldman , a
technology-industry veteran with three decades of experience in
software and Internet companies, to succeed Tim Morse as chief
financial officer, the biggest management switch yet by Chief
Executive Officer Marissa Mayer.  Goldman, previously CFO at network-security provider
 Fortinet Inc. (FTNT) , joins as of Oct. 22, Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo said in a statement yesterday. Morse, who joined in 2009,
will leave later this year, Yahoo said.  Mayer, CEO since July, is realigning leadership in her
drive to reverse three years of declining revenue and market
share losses to  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and her former employer,  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  She may seek to impose fiscal discipline by hiring Goldman,
who has a reputation for cutting costs and improving oversight,
said  Erik Suppiger , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC.  “He was brought into Fortinet a few years ago to improve
on the company’s controls,” said Suppiger, who’s based in San
Francisco. “Investors have a relatively high regard for him.”  Yahoo said in August that Mayer would embark on a review of
the business, including its growth and  acquisition strategy , its
cash position and capital allocation plans. A plan to cut about
2,000 jobs and reorganize the company, disclosed in April under
then-CEO Scott Thompson, is also up for review.  Fortinet retreated 3.2 percent to $25.02 at the close in
New York, while Yahoo fell less than 1 percent to $15.61.  Compensation Package  Goldman is set to receive a compensation package that could
be worth at least $16.6 million over four years.  The compensation includes annual base salary of $600,000,
an annual bonus of as much as $540,000, restricted stock units
valued at as much as $6 million and performance stock units with
a target value of $6 million. The tally doesn’t include 76,000
so-called make-whole restricted stock units, designed to make up
for compensation forfeited from his former employer.  Goldman was known for trimming expenses at Siebel Systems,
where he worked as CFO for six years prior to joining Fortinet,
said Howie Shohet, an executive who reported to Goldman while at
the customer management software maker.  “He was very operationally inclined, very effective at
cost saving,” said Shohet, who is now chief financial officer
at  San Mateo , California-based Lattice Engines. Goldman focused
on “streamlining and rationalizing” the investments Siebel was
making, Shohet said yesterday.  Companies Sold  At Siebel, acquired in 2006 by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , Goldman and
other executives came under scrutiny by the Securities &
Exchange Commission, which said he selectively disclosed market-
moving information. The company paid a $250,000 fine in 2002 to
settle accusations, without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  Goldman has worked at several other tech companies that
have been acquired, including Sybase, which was bought by  SAP
AG (SAP) ; @Home Network, purchased by Excite; and VLSI Technology,
bought by  Royal Philips Electronics NV. (PHIA)   Before luring Goldman from Fortinet, Mayer brought in
entrepreneur and former  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO)  executive
Kathy Savitt last month as chief marketing officer.  Mayer plans to discuss her turnaround strategy on a call
with analysts next month, Anne Espiritu, a spokeswoman for
Yahoo, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “We will have more to share about our approach to building
Yahoo’s future at our next earning’s call, which is in mid-
October,” Espiritu wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  