-- Yankees Extend Division Lead With Win Over Twins, Orioles Split
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-25T05:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/yankees-extend-division-lead-with-win-over-twins-orioles-split.html
The New York Yankees extended their
American League East division lead to 1 1/2 games over Baltimore
by beating the Minnesota Twins 6-3 while the Orioles split a
doubleheader against the Toronto Blue Jays.  The Yankees, who entered yesterday with a one-game lead
atop the division, got home runs from  Curtis Granderson , Nick Swisher,  Eric Chavez  and Raul Ibanez.  Andy Pettitte  pitched six
scoreless innings in Minneapolis as the Yankees took the opener
of their seven-game road trip.  The Orioles beat the Blue Jays 4-1 in the first game of
yesterday’s doubleheader in Baltimore and lost the nightcap 9-5
as Toronto’s J.P. Arencibia hit a seventh-inning grand slam.  The Yankees (89-64) have nine games left in Major League
Baseball’s regular season, while the Orioles (88-66) have eight
to play. The team that doesn’t win the division will probably
get one of the AL’s two wild-card postseason berths and have to
play a one-game playoff to reach the division series.  The Chicago White Sox remain one game ahead of the Detroit
Tigers in the AL Central after beating the Cleveland Indians 5-4
last night behind a pair of home runs by  Adam Dunn . The Tigers
snapped a two-game losing streak with a 6-2 win against the
Kansas City Royals.  The Texas Rangers beat Oakland 5-4 on Adrian Beltre’s run-
scoring single in the bottom of the ninth inning, pushing their
lead over the Athletics atop the AL West to five games. At 86-67,
the A’s are in position for the second of the two AL wild-card
berths, two games ahead of the Los Angeles Angels.  The Yankees jumped out to a 3-0 first-inning lead last
night as  Robinson Cano  had a run-scoring groundout and Swisher
followed with a two-run homer.  Granderson’s Homers  Granderson pushed the lead to 4-0 in the fourth inning with
a solo homer, his 40th of the season. Granderson became the
fifth player in franchise history with 40 or more home runs in
back-to-back seasons, joining  Babe Ruth ,  Lou Gehrig ,  Mickey Mantle  and Jason Giambi.  New York got solo homers from Ibanez and Chavez in the
seventh inning to open a 6-0 lead, while Pettitte scattered
seven hits over six innings to pick up the win. He’s 10-0 in his
past 11 starts against the Twins.  In the National League, the St. Louis Cardinals
strengthened their hold on a wild-card berth with a 6-1 win at
the Houston Astros. The Cardinals (83-71) have a 3 1/2-game lead
over the Los Angeles Dodgers and Milwaukee Brewers in the race
for the second wild-card spot. The Atlanta Braves (88-65) are in
position for the first wild card.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  