-- Mystery Grandma Holds Key to Turk Atrocity in ‘Red Dog’: Review
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-09-25T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-25/mystery-grandma-holds-key-to-turk-atrocity-in-red-dog-review.html
“There are sins from which we will
never be absolved,” 34-year-old writer Michael tells the
audience at the outset of the solemn tragedy “Red Dog Howls”
at the  New York Theatre Workshop .  He and we eventually learn details of the atrocity that
scarred his family, thanks to a crash course in the Armenian
genocide and a remarkable performance by Kathleen Chalfant.  Playwright  Alexander Dinelaris  is a nimble talent whose
“Still Life,” about a brilliant, blocked photographer, was
presented off-Broadway in 2009.  “Red Dog Howls” is heavier, its plot propelled by the
Ottoman slaughter of 1.5 million Armenians between 1915 and
1923. (Dinelaris was raised in part by an Armenian grandmother
secretive about her past.)  Michael (Alfredo Narciso), with a manicured beard and
pregnant wife (Florencia Lozano), tells the audience that after
his father died he found a box filled with letters and a note
instructing him not to read them. The return addresses lead him
to Rose (Chalfant), an earthy, cryptic 91-year-old with uncanny
physical strength.  Hellish Clues  Over repeated visits, Michael and Rose play cards and he
eats her soup and sweet Armenian bread. She aims to toughen him
up and release him from the sorrow he inherited from his father.
As he probes for more family history, she doles out clues.  “Hell is a place where you live the most terrible day of
your life, over and over again, for eternity,” she says.  “Do you believe that?” he asks.  “Yes, very much.”  Chalfant is commanding, especially in a riveting monologue
in which she finally reveals the truth he’s seeking. Designer
Marsha Ginsberg nicely evokes Rose’s old-world Upper Manhattan
apartment.  The play’s themes include the risk of obsessing over the
past while neglecting the present and how pain is passed down
through generations. Its jolting solution for excising demons is
best not tried at home.  While the wind-up to the denouement is slow-going under Ken
Rus Schmoll’s otherwise sensitive staging, “Red Dog Howls”
lends human scale to a dark period too often minimized as a run-
up to the 20th century’s later horrors.  Through Oct. 14 at 79 E. 4th St. Information: +1-212-460-
8996,  http://www.nytw.org . Rating: ***  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
 section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on country
matters and  Amanda Gordon  on Scene Last Night.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 