-- ‘Survivor’ Deaths Blur TF1 Stock View as French Blockbuster Hit
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-04-07T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/-survivor-deaths-blur-tf1-stock-view-as-french-blockbuster-hit.html
The death of a French “Survivor”
contestant and the suicide of the reality show’s doctor have
taken down the  shares of Societe Television Francaise 1  10
percent. Investors say the decline may be far from over.  The fallout from the cancellation of one of the most-watched
shows on the Paris-based company’s main channel, TF1, is
compounding a decline in advertising revenue, investors say. TF1
announced the cancellation of the upcoming season of “Koh-
Lanta,” the French version of “Survivor,” on March 22 after
Gerald Babin, 25, died of a heart attack during the first day of
filming in Cambodia. On April 1, the show’s doctor Thierry
Costa, 38, committed suicide, producer Adventure Line said.  “The bad news is accumulating,” said Bruno Ducros, who
helps oversee about $3.9 billion in equities at CamGestion in
Paris. “Buying TF1 shares today at this level would be
hazardous.”  TF1  is trading  at about 12.5 times earnings, higher than
its average over the past three years of 11.9 times earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Still, TF1 shares have
lost about three-quarters of their value since 2006, when they
hit the highest in almost a decade of 29.07 euros. During the
2000 technology bubble, the stock traded as high as 94.20 euros.  Since the start of the year, TF1 has fallen 8.5 percent
compared with a 0.6 percent increase in the benchmark French CAC
40 index and a 6.5 percent jump in the media sub index of the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXMP)   Even Worse  France’s most-watched channel has struggled with flagging
advertising revenue amid rising competition from newer channels.
Revenue from advertising slipped 5.9 percent in the fourth
quarter for the TFI channel and 10 percent in the third quarter,
the company said. Chief Executive Officer Nonce Paolini has
predicted more declines.  “The first quarter of this year, as far as we can see,
would be even worse than the third quarter of 2012,” Paolini
said in a statement on Feb. 20.  Against that backdrop, the lost Koh-Lanta season couldn’t
have come at a worse time, said Amandine Gerard, president of
fund-manager Financiere de L’Arc in Aix-en-Provence, France.  The show, modeled after the “Survivor” reality show that
gained popularity in the U.S., pits contestants against each
other to survive a series of challenges in difficult and often
rugged natural conditions.  ‘A Blockbuster’  “Koh-Lanta is a blockbuster so this represents a loss of
advertising revenue,” said Gerard, whose firm oversees $205
million. “TF1 used to be THE channel in  France , but with the
dispersion of its audience to other channels, they are losing
advertising pricing power.”  The Koh-Lanta series had as many as 8 million viewers per
show last year, according to TF1. That’s higher than the
channel’s average prime-time audience of 6 million. The
network’s program with the biggest audience, an annual concert,
drew 13 million viewers.  “This brings up questions over reality shows and what
they’ll do with the ‘Survivor’ show,” said Ian Whittaker, an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London  who recommends selling
the stock. “It’s just not a great story for them.”  Granted, TF1 isn’t the only source of revenue for the
company, which also owns Eurosport France, news channel LCI and
entertainment channel TMC among others.  “Koh-Lanta won’t have an enormous impact because of the
diversification of channels,” said Bernard Delattre, president
of Altimeo Asset Management in Paris. “I’m not sure if even a
blockbuster show like this will have an effect.”  A Blow  A TF1 spokeswoman said the channel hasn’t yet discussed the
future of Koh-Lanta. Another spokeswoman said that it was
difficult to measure the impact of the recent incidents on the
stock price, and hard to estimate the value of the show’s
advertising revenue.  CamGestion’s Ducros said that the show represents 50
million euros net in advertising receipts, making even the loss
of one season a blow to TF1.  “Koh-Lanta and The Voice are the most profitable shows on
the channel,” he said. “Koh-Lanta will be replaced by an
American series, but it certainly won’t be as profitable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  