-- AB InBev Plans Acquisitions to Boost China Market Share
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-08T10:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/ab-inbev-plans-acquisitions-to-boost-its-market-share-in-china.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s
biggest beermaker, plans acquisitions in  China  as beer
consumption rises in its third-largest market.  Business in China is growing at a “double-digit” rate,
“so that’s very good,” Chief Executive Officer Carlos Brito
said yesterday at the Boao forum in Hainan, China. “We also
have plans for inorganic growth because we have parts of the
country where we have no breweries but where we sell our brands.
It makes sense to have the production place closer to the
consumption place.”  The Leuven, Belgium-based maker of Budweiser beer will
boost capital spending globally to $3.7 billion this year as it
increases investment in capacity expansion into Brazil and
China. Brito, who spearheaded a bid for  Mexico ’s Grupo Modelo
SAB, said the growth potential of the beer market in China was
“humongous,” with per-capita consumption levels of the
beverage much lower than elsewhere in the world.  The beermaker plans to build breweries in western China
over the next three years and will focus on expanding beyond the
coastal provinces, the CEO said.  AB InBev made an unsuccessful bid to buy Guangdong, China-
based  Kingway Brewery Holdings Ltd. (124) ’s beermaking assets last
year. China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd., which SABMiller co-
owns with government-backed  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) ,
agreed to pay HK$6.6 billion ($850 million) for the assets on
Feb. 5.  Among Chinese brewers, Tsingtao Brewery Co. gained 3
percent to HK$48.75 in Hong Kong trading; Beijing Yanjing
Brewery Co. rose 1.9 percent in Shenzhen and China Resources
rose 1.9 percent in Hong Kong. The Hang Seng index was little
changed.  AB InBev gained as much as 1.8 percent as of 11.58 a.m. in
Brussels.  Brito said the beermaker has two weeks to submit the final
agreement to the U.S. Justice Department on the purchase of
Modelo, after receiving agreement in principle for it. The final
document would be very similar to the revised offer submitted by
the company on Feb. 14 this year, he said.  The brewer agreed in June last year to buy the remaining 50
percent of Modelo it doesn’t own for $20.1 billion, giving it
full ownership of the maker of Corona. After being sued by the
Department of Justice, it amended the terms of its acquisition
on Feb. 14 to try to appease competition authorities in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  