-- Afghan Taliban Car Bombing Kills Five Americans in Convoy
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-04-07T12:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/afghan-taliban-car-bombing-kills-five-americans-in-convoy.html
Five U.S. citizens, including two
civilians, died in a suicide car bomb attack by the Taliban on
their road convoy in southern Afghanistan, the deadliest attack
on Americans in the country since July, officials said.  Anne Smedinghoff, a 25-year-old diplomat originally from
 Illinois , and a civilian interpreter for the Defense Department
were among victims of the blast yesterday in Zabul province,
according to the U.S. State Department and defense officials and
NATO’s  International Security Assistance Force . They were killed
while on their way to donate books to a school, Secretary of
State  John Kerry  said in the U.S. statement.  Smedinghoff “tragically gave her young life working to
give young Afghans the opportunity to have a better future,”
Kerry said at a press conference in Istanbul. “We know too well
the risks in the world today for all of our State Department
personnel at home and around the world.”  The bombing took place in the provincial capital of Qalat
at 11 a.m. local time as Zabul Governor Mohammad Ashraf Nasery
and senior Afghan officials left his office and were joined by
the U.S. delegation to inaugurate the school, said Deputy
Governor Mohammad Jan Rasoolyar said in a phone interview.  Taliban claimed responsibility for the bombing through
spokesman Qari Yousef Ahmadi.  Nasery escaped unhurt but a state hospital doctor was
killed and two of the governor’s bodyguards and a school student
were wounded. Three U.S. soldiers were among those killed,
according to the ISAF statement. Four other State Department
employees were injured, with one in critical condition, Kerry
said.  Dempsey’s Visit  The attack took place hours after U.S. General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, landed in
 Afghanistan  in an unannounced visit to assess progress on local
security forces’ preparations for taking control as U.S.-led
international forces withdraw by the end of 2014, according to
U.S. Department of Defense website.  The bombing was the deadliest for Americans in Afghanistan
since July, when an attack in Wardak province killed six U.S.
service members, according to ISAF. Smedinghoff was the first
U.S. diplomat to die since an attack in Benghazi,  Libya , that
claimed the life of Ambassador Christopher Stevens in September.  Kerry paid homage to Smedinghoff while visiting the U.S.
consulate in Istanbul today. Smedinghoff served as Kerry’s aide
during his visit last week to the Afghan capital, Kabul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  