-- Thai Billionaire Dhanin Says He Seeks More Acquisitions in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-07T10:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/thai-billionaire-dhanin-says-he-seeks-more-acquisitions-in-china.html
Thai billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont, who bought a $9.4 billion stake in  Ping An
Insurance (2318)  (Group) Co. from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in February, said
he is seeking more acquisitions to tap growth in  China .  The Chinese market is a “very good expansion opportunity
for us, and we will continue looking to buy stakes and make
acquisitions,” Dhanin, chairman of Charoen Pokphand Group Co.,
told reporters at the Boao Forum for  Asia  in the southern
Chinese province of  Hainan . “I am very optimistic about China’s
growth,” he said yesterday, adding that the company is open to
investing in many sectors.  The shares in Ping An give Dhanin’s CP Group, which
includes businesses ranging from agriculture to retail and
telecommunications, a stake in China’s second-largest insurer
and an inroad to the financial-services market in the world’s
second-biggest economy. Dhanin, speaking on a panel at the Boao
Forum, said ethnic Chinese businesspeople from outside the
nation should change their investment models for China to one
that puts more emphasis on mergers and acquisitions.  “We are interested in any sector with good growth
potential,” the 73-year-old told reporters. “Our business is
diversified across many sectors, be it supermarkets or finance.
We can invest in many areas.”  Dhanin, whose father and uncle left China’s Guangdong
province in 1921 to start a seed shop in Thailand, spent more
than four decades building the family business into Thailand’s
biggest agricultural company and conglomerate. His net worth was
estimated at $6.9 billion as of April 7, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  When asked about a Financial Times report that UBS AG had
provided a $5.5 billion loan to fund the Thai company’s purchase
of the Ping An stake from HSBC, Dhanin said the funds to buy the
shares came from the group itself and declined to elaborate.  CP Group  hopes to cooperate with Ping An in agricultural
businesses in the future, Dhanin said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  