-- Martin Laird Grabs Final Masters Spot With Texas Open Victory
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-04-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/laird-wins-texas-open-to-book-place-at-golf-s-masters-tournament.html
Martin Laird claimed the final spot
in golf’s  Masters Tournament  with a two-shot win at the U.S.  PGA
Tour ’s Texas Open, where he tied the course record during the
final round and held off a challenge from Rory McIlroy.  Laird’s 9-under-par 63 yesterday was the low round of the
tournament by three shots at the TPC San Antonio and gave him a
four-round total of 14-under-par 274. McIlroy finished second at
12-under after a 6-under-par 66 in the final event before the
Masters, the first of golf’s four major championships.  “I’ve been asked probably 30 times in the last couple of
weeks, ‘Are you in Augusta?’” Laird said yesterday in a
televised interview. “Every time I said ‘no’ it kind of hurt me
a little bit. So that was my major motivation trying to get back
into tournaments like that.”  Laird, a 30-year-old Scot, is the first non-American to win
on the PGA Tour in 15 events this season. He made nine birdies
and no bogeys after beginning the final round five shots behind
third-round leader Billy Horschel, who tied  Jim Furyk  and
 Charley Hoffman  for third place at 11-under.  “It doesn’t matter if it’s Rory or Jim or Billy, if
someone’s behind me making birdies like they were, I know I’ve
got to keep making birdies,” said Laird, who received $1.12
million. “That was a pretty strong leaderboard at the top
there. I tried to stay aggressive all day.”  Previous Wins  Laird’s previous successes on the PGA Tour came at the 2009
Shriners Hospitals for Children Open and the Arnold Palmer
Invitational in 2011.  Players now head to Augusta,  Georgia , for the Masters,
which is scheduled to begin April 11.  Tiger Woods  is the 7-2 favorite at U.K. bookmaker William
Hill to end an eight-year wait for a fifth title at Augusta
National. Woods, the world’s top-ranked golfer, hasn’t won a
major title since he claimed his 14th at the 2008  U.S. Open .  McIlroy, a two-time major winner, is the second favorite to
win the Masters, at 8-1, followed by three-time champion  Phil Mickelson , who is rated an 11-1 chance by William Hill.  “I feel like my game’s in really good shape going into
next week,” McIlroy said at a news conference yesterday. “A
round like that gives me a nice little bit of confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  