-- Malaysia’s Najib Unveils Poll Manifesto Similar to Anwar’s
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-04-08T02:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/malaysia-s-najib-unveils-election-manifesto-similar-to-anwar-s.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
pledged to fight corruption, bring down living costs and build a
pan-Borneo expressway if his coalition retains power in
elections due in a matter of weeks.  These were all policies mooted by opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  in his manifesto released six weeks earlier than the one
Najib’s governing National Front unveiled at a weekend rally in
 Kuala Lumpur . The Election Commission meets this week to set a
date for polls after the prime minister dissolved parliament on
April 3.  “They had the benefit of time to study our manifesto over
the past month and incorporate some elements,” Ong Kian Ming, a
political analyst at Kuala Lumpur’s UCSI University and an
opposition election strategist, said by phone. “Unlike us,
there’s nothing in there about electoral reform. That’s
something a lot of people are concerned about.”  In the lead-up to the polls, Najib has boosted  government
spending , distributed a second round of cash handouts to the
poor, and raised salaries of civil servants, police and the
military. He also delayed implementing a goods-and-services tax
and froze plans to wind back state subsidies on essential items.
The manifesto offers increased handouts for the poor, and
lowered car costs and broadband fees.  “My sincere apologies to all Malaysians if we have done
anything wrong,” the prime minister said in a speech at the
rally, broadcast live on national television. “At the end of
the day, we are ordinary humans. If we are given a strong
mandate, I can assure you that we will do better in the next
five years.”  Housing, Health  Najib promised more specialist graft courts and greater
public disclosure of government contracts if the National Front
is allowed to extend its 55 years of unbroken rule. Among the
pledges are more affordable housing, and improved health care
and transportation, including a high-speed rail link between
Kuala Lumpur and  Singapore .  “A lot of the ideas have already been mooted by the
opposition, like lowering car prices, cheaper Internet and a
pan-Borneo highway,” James Chin, professor of political science
at the Malaysian campus of  Australia ’s  Monash University , said
by phone yesterday. “Najib talked mostly about things that are
popular with the people. He didn’t give details on macro-
economic issues like implementing GST and cutting state
subsidies.”  Worst Performer  To stay in power, Najib, 59, must see off a resurgent
opposition led by Anwar, a former deputy prime minister.
Brokerages including Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Citigroup
Inc. expect an even closer election result than in 2008, when
the National Front retained power by its narrowest margin since
Malaysia’s independence from Britain in 1957.  The risk of the ruling coalition losing seats in the
election has helped make the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index
Southeast  Asia ’s worst-performing benchmark in 2013. The stock
gauge is down 0.3 percent this year, compared with a 14 percent
gain in the leading index in  Indonesia  and a 7 percent increase
in  Thailand ’s benchmark gauge.  The KLCI was trading 0.2 percent lower as of 9:58 a.m. in
Kuala Lumpur today, while the ringgit was little changed to the
dollar at 3.0564.  Najib, who inherited a country in recession when he
replaced Abdullah Ahmad Badawi as leader mid-term in 2009, wants
a mandate to complete his economic and government reforms
started less than three years ago. He’s focusing on his track
record in boosting investment and improving incomes as he seeks
a popular mandate for the first time.  Fighting Corruption  Malaysia ’s economy has shown resilience in the face of the
global slowdown, expanding by more than  4 percent  for each of
the 13 quarters to the end of 2012, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Private investment  has tripled since Najib began
his economic-transformation program in September 2010, rising 25
percent last year to 139.5 billion ringgit ($46 billion),
according to government data.  Almost half of the voters surveyed in a poll by the  Merdeka
Center for Opinion Research  said fighting graft is a more
pressing issue for the next government than taming inflation or
boosting foreign investment. The survey of 1,021 voters was
conducted from Jan. 23 to Feb. 6 on the country’s peninsula and
had a margin of error of 3.07 percent.  While Malaysia moved to 54th from 60th place among 176
countries in Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions
Index last year, it was ranked last for bribery among 30 nations
surveyed. About 3,000 executives from 30 countries were asked
whether they’d lost a contract in the past year because
competitors had paid a bribe. In Malaysia, 50 percent said yes,
the Berlin-based advocacy group said.  Anwar’s Allies  The National Front is “committed to doing much more to
combat the scourge” of corruption, according to its manifesto,
which emphasized its experience in government and urged voters
not to “gamble away” the future.  Anwar’s three-party  People’s Alliance  opposition coalition
comprises his own multiethnic People’s Justice Party, the
Chinese-majority Democratic Action Party, and the Pan-Malaysian
Islamic Party, which wants to expand Shariah law.  The People’s Alliance won control of five of Malaysia’s 13
states in the 2008 election. The National front later won back
Perak state when several lawmakers defected.  The opposition currently holds 75 of 222 parliamentary
seats, while Najib’s alliance has 137, according to the
Malaysian parliament  website . Anwar predicted a minimum 10-seat
majority for his alliance in a March 8 interview.  Najib’s manifesto said Malaysia would seek a non-permanent
seat on the  United Nations Security Council  to play a greater
role in regional peace, promoting moderate Islam and inter-faith
harmony. A National Front government would support the
establishment of a Palestinian state, and humanitarian efforts
in Gaza, the  West Bank , southern Thailand and Mindanao in the
 Philippines , it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stan James in  Hong Kong  at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson in Singapore at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  