-- Angolan Agriculture Struggles to Recover from Civil War
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-04-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/angolan-agriculture-struggles-to-recover-from-civil-war.html
Agriculture in  Angola , once the
world’s fourth-biggest coffee producer, is being held back by
limited competition and processing facilities and a lack of
cooperation among small-scale farmers, the head of the National
Cereals Institute said.  The country, which is  Africa ’s second-largest oil producer
after  Nigeria , requires 4.5 million metric tons a year of grain,
Benjamin Castello, the head of the institute, said in an
interview in Luanda, the capital, last month. The country only
grows about 55 percent of the corn it needs, 20 percent of rice
and just 5 percent of its wheat requirements, he said. The
government has spent as much as $2 billion annually for the past
four years with about 75 percent borrowed from  China ’s Export-
Import Bank while Brazil and  Spain  are also funding projects,
Castello said.  “What is lacking is an information system for agricultural
markets so the farmer knows what’s best to grow and where and
when to sell, like the help he would get in a co-operative,” he
said. “Produce doesn’t get the processing it needs to remain
unspoiled long enough to impress consumers.”  Angola’s coffee industry collapsed during the 27-year civil
war that followed independence from  Portugal  in 1975. The
conflict, which ended in 2002, destroyed infrastructure,
deterred investment and drove farmers from the countryside into
cities.  The country’s eight largest industrial farms are forecast
to produce 119,400 tons of corn, 31,000 tons of rice, 15,000
tons of cornmeal, 10,400 tons of soybeans and 7,900 tons of
beans this year, worth a total of 7.95 billion kwanzas ($83
million), according to government documents.  Spoiled Produce  Agrolider Lda., the country’s biggest food processor, and
Frescangol UEE, a state-owned company that offers cold storage
facilities to farmers, need competition to help lower prices and
ensure unspoiled local produce makes it to shelves, Castello
said.  Retailers such as those owned by Kero, a supermarket chain
opened last year by a company that is a third owned by Vice
President  Manuel Vicente , may consider starting their own food
processing units so they can buy more local produce, he said.  Farmers can’t compete against imports when it can cost a
fifth as much to grow the same produce in  South Africa , he said.
Imported corn cost $280 a ton after  customs duties  last year
while it cost $400 a ton to grow in Angola, he said. Electricity
and grain costs push up the price of a domestic egg to 23
kwanzas while an imported egg sells for 15 kwanzas, he said.  Electricity Investment  The government is investing in electricity production,
irrigation and water management through dams to mitigate the
impact of floods and droughts, he said. A marketing system is
being developed as officials grapple with issues such as how to
calibrate a scale driven from village to village on damaged
roads without causing mistrust, he said.  Agri-industrial projects such as the 10,000-hectare
(24,711-acre) China-funded soybean and corn growing Pedras
Negras and the Spanish-backed 5,200-hectare corn and bean
producing Quizenga farm in Malange province have started up
while the country’s 2 million small-scale farmers operating on
less than 1.5 hectares each lack tools and knowledge, Castello
said.  “It would help if small farmers would organize themselves
in co-operatives, but they won’t,” Castello said.  Food Shortages  The typical farming family of six requires 800 kilograms
(1,764 pounds) of its one ton annual corn crop for its own food
and lacks the ability to store the harvest for more than 90 days
without spoiling, he said. The harvest in February must be sold
by June, and buyers wait for the price to fall in May, he said.
Their plots suffer from July to February as they cope with food
shortages and have to work for others to make ends meet.  Even educated farmers fear the concept of co-operatives,
Castello said. They’re deterred by memories of forced
collectivization during the southwestern African country’s
Marxist period after 1975 until market liberalization in the
1990s, Castello said.  “The program was led by politicians and the small farmers
were exploited,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Johannesburg at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  