-- Aon to Sponsor Manchester Utd. Training Ground, Kit Through 2021
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-04-07T23:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/aon-to-sponsor-manchester-utd-training-ground-kit-through-2021.html
Manchester United agreed to an
eight-year contract with  Aon Plc (AON)  to become the first training-
ground sponsor of the record 19-time English soccer champion.  The insurer will have its logo on United’s training uniform
through 2021, while the club’s Carrington training center will
be known as the Aon Training Complex from July 1. United and Aon
declined to provide financial details of the accord.  The deal may be worth as much 125 million pounds, Nigel Currie, managing director of U.K.-based marketing adviser
BrandRapport, said in a telephone interview.  “It is realistic because it’s Manchester United,” said
Currie, who negotiated a previous shirt sponsorship deal for
United with Vodafone Group Plc. “Nobody else can do what they
can do.”  Aon in August enters the final season of a four-year, 80
million-pound ($122.7 million) contract as the sponsor of
United’s main game jerseys. The insurer will be replaced by
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet brand from the start of the 2014-
15 season. The carmaker is paying $559 million over seven
seasons.  Aon will also be the partner of the team’s preseason tours
and business network, according to an e-mailed statement from
United. The Red Devils will play exhibition matches in Bangkok,
Sydney, Yokohama,  Osaka  and  Hong Kong  in July.  United, which is 15 points clear atop the Premier League as
it seeks a 20th English championship, bought back its training
uniform sponsorship rights from  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, which
was in the middle of a four-year, 40 million-pound contract.  Commercial Revamp  United’s commercial operation has grown since it was
revamped by Executive Vice-Chairman Ed Woodward, a former
JPMorgan Chase & Co banker, in 2008.  The deal with DHL, announced in August 2011, was the first
time a major soccer team sold apparel rights to a sponsor other
than the one on the team’s playing jersey.  The sale of naming rights to Carrington also is a first for
the Premier League.  United in February said commercial revenue in its fiscal
second-quarter through December rose 29 percent to 35.6 million
pounds, including a 49 percent rise in sponsorships after the
club agreed to six new deals.  Shares in  Manchester United  have climbed 19 percent to
$16.69 since its owners, the U.S.-based Glazer family, raised
$233 million in August by selling 10 percent of the 135-year-old
club at $14 per share on the  New York  Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  