-- Tata Said to Seek M&A Head as Mistry Grows Team
-- B y   B h u m a   S h r i v a s t a v a
-- 2013-04-10T06:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/tata-said-to-seek-m-a-head-as-mistry-grows-team.html
Tata Sons Ltd. Chairman Cyrus Mistry, chasing his predecessor’s vision of boosting revenue
fivefold in the next decade, is searching for a head of mergers
and acquisitions, a person familiar with the plan said.  Mistry, 44, is also looking for people to head finance,
human resources and strategy, the person said, asking not be
identified as the plan hasn’t been announced. The search may be
completed in the next three months, the person said.  India ’s biggest business group spent at least $15.5 billion
buying companies in the past two decades, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Deals are crucial for closely held Tata
Sons, which controls the nation’s biggest automaker, Asia’s
largest software developer by value and manages the Indian unit
of Starbucks Corp., to achieve former Chairman  Ratan Tata ’s
ambition of reaching $500 billion in annual sales by 2020,
according Rajeev Vasudeva, partner at Egon Zehnder International
Inc. in Mumbai.  “It’s hard to imagine that a group of Tata’s size can grow
fivefold in 6-7 years without clinching some acquisitions,”
said Vasudeva. Finding people who are culturally aligned to the
 Tata group  “and who bring with them a global outlook as well as
commercial savviness to restructure some businesses and grow
others” will be a challenge, he said.  Biggest Acquisition  Acquiring companies and starting new businesses helped
Ratan Tata boost revenue 23-fold since 1993.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) 
paid $12.8 billion for the 2006 purchase of Corus Group Ltd,
India’s biggest overseas acquisition, while  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) 
purchased Jaguar and  Land Rover .  Tata Communications Ltd. dropped out of a race to acquire
Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc after failing to agree on a
price. Orient-Express Hotels Ltd., owner of  New York ’s 21 Club
restaurant and Hotel Cipriani in  Venice , in November rejected a
takeover offer by Mumbai-based Tata’s  Indian Hotels Co. (IH) , saying
the bid undervalues the company.  Arunkumar Gandhi, who helped former chairman Tata with
purchases including Jaguar and Land Rover, retired this year.
Director R. K. Krishna Kumar too retires from Tata Sons board in
2013. Finance chief Ishaat Hussain became a non-executive
director when he turned 65 in September. Farrokh K. Kavarana, 68
and R. Gopalakrishnan, 66, will step down at 70, according to
group policy.  Mistry may hire a new group head for human resources by the
end of the month, the person said.  “We will communicate leadership changes as and when they
happen, and would not like to comment on speculation regarding
possible structures that may be put in place in the future,”
Tata Sons said in an e-mail response.  ‘Generational Shift’  Mistry, son of billionaire Pallonji Shapoorji Mistry, the
single biggest shareholder of Tata Sons, hired Madhu Kannan as
head of the group’s business development and Mukund Rajan as
brand and chief ethics officer. Kannan was the managing director
of  Asia ’s oldest exchange BSE Ltd. and former vice president at
NYSE Group Inc.  “The succession would have been carefully thought through
and managed such that there would be a generational shift,”
said Saurabh Mukherjea, head of equities at Mumbai-based
brokerage Ambit Holdings Pvt. “That makes life easier for the
successor.”  A new team will help Mistry avoid a situation faced by his
predecessor. Ratan spent his early years as chairman of the
group asserting his authority and fending off many of the
entrenched heads who had been vying for the the top position
until Ratan was chosen by his uncle J.R.D. Tata, according to
Gita Piramal, a Mumbai-based author of “Business Maharajahs.”  ‘Bloody War’  JRD’s decentralized management style over the years had
created satraps within the group who wielded control over their
companies. Ratan Tata was “enmeshed in a bloody double-fronted
war” with Russi Mody at Tata Steel and Darbari Seth at Tata
Chemicals Ltd., Piramal wrote in her book.  “Ratan Tata drove a significant change in the governance
of individual companies, making boards more accountable for
performance and succession,” said Vasudeva at recruiting firm
 Egon Zehnder . “Earlier, individuals ran their own patch and
were identified as the face of their businesses.”  Mistry and his new team will also have to focus on boosting
demand for the group’s products even as it seeks new growth
opportunities.  Tata Motors, maker of the world’s cheapest car, the Nano,
reported a 70 percent drop in Indian passenger-vehicle sales for
February to the lowest in a decade. Tata Steel, India’s biggest
producer, posted the biggest loss in more than three years for
the December quarter as  Europe ’s economic crisis sapped demand
and slower Chinese growth weighed on commodity prices.  Tata Bank  The group’s 32 listed firms and Tata Sons have $35 billion
of debt with a third of that due in the next three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The challenge for Mistry will really be how to” expand
further globally, said Piramal. “Is he going to grow it into a
General Electric Co.?”  Mistry does plan to enter new businesses. Tata Capital Ltd.
will apply for a banking license, Business Standard newspaper
reported on April 4. India’s central bank sought applications
from companies with “sound credentials and integrity” by July
1. Mistry will compete with billionaires  Anil Ambani , Kumar Mangalam Birla and Malvinder and  Shivinder Singh  in vying for
bank permits.  In February, Tata Sons said it will return to aviation in
partnership with Malaysia’s budget airline AirAsia Bhd. and Arun
Bhatia’s Telestra Tradeplace Pvt. The group will own a 30
percent stake and will have no operating role in the venture.  “Global experience within the management is now more
crucial than ever,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , head of
research at New Delhi-based SMC Global Securities Ltd. “The new
hires will have to be in sync with that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bhuma Shrivastava in Mumbai at 
 bshrivastav1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  