-- Australian Builders Waiting on Lift From Low Rates, Survey Shows
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-07T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/australian-builders-waiting-on-lift-from-low-rates-survey-shows.html
Australian builders are suffering
from weak profits and less work as the expected economic boost
from lower interest rates fails to revive the industry,
according to a survey.  An index of profitability remained below 50 in the first
quarter and has held below the neutral level since mid-2011,
Master Builders Australia Ltd. said in an e-mailed report,
citing a survey of 500 members. Builders expect little change in
profits in the next six months after previously expecting a
deterioration, the report said.  “The turnaround in sentiment suggests previous interest
rate cuts may be beginning to take hold, but builders are yet to
see any benefit from rate reductions,” Peter Jones, chief
economist at Master Builders, said in the report. “Builders
reported less work on the books, sales contracts remain
essentially unchanged and profits remain weak.”  The Reserve Bank has cut its  benchmark  lending rate by 1.75
percentage points in the past 18 months to help boost the
economy, particularly for builders and manufacturers in the
south and east where the mining boom hasn’t been felt. Home-
building approvals rose for the first time in three months in
February, gaining 3.1 percent.  “The industry has been earmarked by Treasurer Wayne Swan
and the Reserve Bank to play a major role lifting the non-mining
sectors as the economy loses the mining investment boom as a
driver, however, the industry is a long way from filling that
gap,” Jones said.  The profitability index compiled by Master Builders was at
41.3 last quarter from 38 in the final three months of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  