-- Beware of Economists Peddling Elegant Models
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2013-04-07T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/beware-of-economists-peddling-elegant-models.html
Mathematics can be beguilingly
elegant. It can also be dangerous when people mistake its
elegance for truth.  Albert Einstein ’s theory of general relativity might be the
best example of elegant math, capturing a wide range of subtle
and surprising phenomena with remarkable simplicity. Step toward
the practical, though, and physics moves quickly away from
elegance to makeshift usefulness. There’s no pretty expression
for the operation of a nuclear reactor, or for how air flows
past the swept wings of an aircraft. Understanding demands ugly
approximations, or brute-force simulation on a large computer.  In one very practical and consequential area, though, the
allure of elegance has exercised a perverse and lasting
influence. For several decades, economists have sought to
express the way millions of people and companies interact in a
handful of pretty equations.  The resulting mathematical structures, known as dynamic
stochastic general equilibrium models, seek to reflect our messy
reality without making too much actual contact with it. They
assume that economic trends emerge from the decisions of only a
few “representative” agents -- one for households, one for
firms, and so on. The agents are supposed to plan and act in a
rational way, considering the probabilities of all possible
futures and responding in an optimal way to unexpected shocks.  Surreal Models  Surreal as such models might seem, they have played a
significant role in informing policy at the world’s largest
central banks. Unfortunately, they don’t work very well, and
they proved spectacularly incapable of accommodating the way
markets and the economy acted before, during and after the
recent crisis.  Now, some economists are beginning to pursue a rather
obvious, but uglier, alternative. Recognizing that an economy
consists of the actions of millions of individuals and firms
thinking, planning and perceiving things differently, they are
trying to model all this messy behavior in considerable detail.
Known as agent-based computational economics, the approach is
showing promise.  Take, for example, a 2012 (and still somewhat preliminary)
 study  by a group of economists, social scientists,
mathematicians and physicists examining the causes of the
housing boom and subsequent collapse from 2000 to 2006. Starting
with data for the Washington D.C. area, the study’s authors
built up a computational model mimicking the behavior of more
than two million potential homeowners over more than a decade.
The model included detail on each individual at the level of
race, income, wealth, age and marital status, and on how these
characteristics correlate with home buying behavior.  Led by further empirical data, the model makes some simple,
yet plausible, assumptions about the way people behave. For
example, homebuyers try to spend about a third of their annual
income on housing, and treat any expected house-price
appreciation as income. Within those constraints, they borrow as
much money as lenders’ credit standards allow, and bid on the
highest-value houses they can. Sellers put their houses on the
market at about 10 percent above fair market value, and reduce
the price gradually until they find a buyer.  The model captures things that dynamic stochastic general
equilibrium models do not, such as how rising prices and the
possibility of refinancing entice some people to speculate,
buying more-expensive houses than they otherwise would. The
model accurately fits data on the housing market over the period
from 1997 to 2010 (not surprisingly, as it was designed to do
so). More interesting, it can be used to probe the deeper causes
of what happened.  Consider, for example, the assertion of some prominent
economists, such as  Stanford University ’s  John Taylor , that the
low-interest-rate policies of the  Federal Reserve  were to blame
for the housing bubble. Some dynamic stochastic general
equilibrium models can be used to support this view. The agent-
based model, however, suggests that  interest rates  weren’t the
primary driver: If you keep rates at higher levels, the boom and
bust do become smaller, but only marginally.  Leverage Boom  A much more important driver might have been leverage --
that is, the amount of money a homebuyer could borrow for a
given down payment. In the heady days of the housing boom,
people were able to borrow as much as 100 percent of the value
of a house -- a form of easy credit that had a big effect on
housing demand. In the model, freezing leverage at historically
normal levels completely eliminates both the housing boom and
the subsequent bust.  Does this mean leverage was the culprit behind the subprime
debacle and the related global financial crisis? Not
necessarily. The model is only a start and might turn out to be
wrong in important ways. That said, it makes the most convincing
case to date (see my  blog  for more detail), and it seems likely
that any stronger case will have to be based on an even deeper
plunge into the messy details of how people behaved. It will
entail more data, more agents, more computation and less
elegance.  If economists jettisoned elegance and got to work
developing more realistic models, we might gain a better
understanding of how crises happen, and learn how to anticipate
similarly unstable episodes in the future. The theories won’t be
pretty, and probably won’t show off any clever mathematics. But
we ought to prefer ugly realism to beautiful fantasy.  (Mark Buchanan, a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Mark Buchanan  at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  