-- Bulls Corralled as April Losses History Seen Jolting Rally
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-04-08T20:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/bulls-corralled-by-april-history-as-drug-valuations-at-2008-high.html
Even bulls are taking steps to
protect profits after gains in U.S. stocks  added $10 trillion  to
equity values, convinced the first decline in earnings since
2009 will spur losses in the historically weak second quarter.  Russ Koesterich  of BlackRock Inc. and Valentijn Van Nieuwenhuijzen at ING Investment Management, who bought equities
in 2012, say risks are rising during a period in which stocks
have lost an average 5.2 percent since 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Concern the  U.S. economy  isn’t expanding fast
enough prompted Koesterich to sell smaller companies. Van
Nieuwenhuijzen is holding off on new share purchases.  With the U.S. earnings season  beginning today , forecasts
for a profit contraction, sluggish economic growth and the
market’s history of weakening at this time of year are spurring
pessimism. Investors managing more than $5 trillion say they’re
looking for ways to limit losses after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index reached a record. That got harder in the first quarter,
when rallies in drugmakers and utilities pushed valuations for
so-called defensive industries to the highest since 2008.  “You have an increased risk of a correction now,”
Koesterich, the chief investment strategist at New York-based
BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager with $3.8 trillion
in assets, said in an April 4 phone interview. “The parts of
the market that have done the best, the defensives, have gotten
very expensive,” he said. “This is a very different rally than
what people are used to.”  Weekly Drop  The  S&P 500   fell 1 percent  to 1,553.28 last week, the
biggest drop of 2013, after manufacturing expanded less than
forecast and American employers added 88,000 jobs in March,
trailing every estimate in a survey of 71 economists by
Bloomberg. The decrease trimmed the rally since March 2009 to
130 percent. The S&P 500 rallied 0.6 percent to 1,563.07 today.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the first member of the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to publish results, reported first-quarter earnings
after the close of regular trading that exceeded analysts’
estimates as demand from U.S. automakers increased. Income at
S&P 500 companies dropped 1.8 percent in the first quarter,
according to more than 11,000 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  A 10 percent rally in the first quarter pushed the S&P 500
to a record as reports on housing, hiring and  consumer
confidence  showed the  Federal Reserve ’s near-zero interest rates
and bond purchases were helping the economy expand.  First Quarter  “The first quarter took most investors by surprise on the
strength and breadth of the equities market,” Jim Russell, the
senior equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, which
manages about $110 billion, said in an April 1 phone interview.
Russell, who said pensions and other funds owned too few shares
in November, says he’s selling U.S. equities now and buying
bonds. “We expect a pullback before too much longer.”  While American stocks have been in a  bull market  for four
years, defined as an advance unbroken by a decline of 20 percent
of more, stocks have frequently retreated. The rally has  lasted
for 49 months  and 16 of them have generated losses.  Shares in the benchmark gauge for American equities slipped
3.3 percent from April to June last year, 0.4 percent in 2011
and 12 percent in 2010, three of the five quarterly losses since
equities bottomed in March 2009. Industries with earnings least
reliant on expanding gross domestic product generated the best
returns each time as technology companies and banks fell.  Investors have fewer choices now after defensive
industries, normally what fund managers buy when they are
concerned about growth, are trading at a 26 percent valuation
premium to the rest of the market.  Johnson & Johnson (INDU) , the
largest seller of health-care products, has rallied 17 percent
this year, the third-best gain in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average . Alcoa has the second-worst decrease, falling 5.1
percent.  ‘Very Cautious’  “We’re being very cautious,” Chad Morganlander, a  Florham
Park , New Jersey-based fund manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
said in an April 5 Bloomberg Television interview. His firm
oversees about $130 billion of assets. “You’re not seeing the
self-sustaining lift that we need to have the market go from
1,550 to 1,750.”  Morganlander, who predicted in December that stocks would
increase this year, said he’s raised the level of cash in his
funds to 18 percent and is buying bonds.  The U.S. economy will expand at a 1.9 percent rate this
year, down from 2.2 percent in 2012, according to the median
estimate of 83 economists in a survey by Bloomberg. The forecast
for a 1.8 percent earnings contraction in the three months ended
in March compares with a prediction for a 1.2 percent gain at
the start of the year.  New Buyers  Higher price-earnings ratios for defensive stocks are no
reason for the rally to fizzle, according to John Stoltzfus,
chief equity strategist at Oppenheimer & Co. Rather, they may
reflect individuals returning to the equity market for the first
time since 2007 who want to keep their investments conservative.  “If you’re coming back to the market, if you’re layering
in and building a portfolio, you start to come in with consumer
staples, health care,” he said in an April 3 interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen and Nela Richardson. “You have a real improvement in
fundamentals, and that’s driving stocks higher.” He predicts
the S&P 500 will climb to 1,585 by the end of the year.  Valuations for defensive shares are higher than any time
since the bull market began. Makers of  consumer staples  in the
S&P 500 trade at 18.1 times annual profit after gaining 14
percent in 2013, led by Avon Products Inc., which has a multiple
of 31.  Utilities Rally  CenterPoint Energy Inc.  led  utilities stocks to a 13
percent rally, pushing the group’s multiple to 17, while health-
care shares such as  Celgene Corp. (CELG)  and Boston Scientific Corp.
gained 16 percent to reach the industry’s highest price relative
to income since February 2008.  The valuations signal danger after investors pulled more
than $400 billion from U.S. stock mutual funds between 2009 and
2012, said  Jonathan Golub , UBS AG’s chief U.S. equity
strategist. While about $18.4 billion was sent to those funds in
January, the deposits shrunk to $1.1 billion for February and
March, according to the  Investment Company Institute .  “When you have the market being led by defensives, it’s
not a positive sign for a continued rally,” he said in an April
3 phone interview. “The market’s gotten ahead of itself.”  Strategist Forecasts  Golub predicts the S&P 500 will fall 8.3 percent to 1,425
by the end of the year. His forecast is below the  1,583 average 
of 17 Wall Street firms tracked by Bloomberg. At this time last
year, he was calling for a 3.9 percent increase in the gauge,
making him the most bullish strategist.  Stocks fell 9.9 percent from April 2 through June 1 last
year, before the S&P 500 surged to a record last month. In 2011,
the index slumped 19.4 percent, its biggest decline of the bull
market, then recovered to end the year  within a point  of where
it started. The 2010 drop started April 23, with the index
declining 16 percent through July.  This year has been “strikingly similar” to the last three
years and investors are bracing for losses, according to  Brian Belski , the New York-based chief investment strategist at BMO
Capital Markets.  “While strong gains at the open of 2013 have helped most
U.S. indices reach historical heights, the rally to date has
been met with more skepticism than acceptance,” Belski said in
a March 28 report. “The stage is likely set for at least a
respite to the market’s ascension.”  Earnings Expansion  He projects the index will end 2013 higher as  earnings 
continue to expand. BMO’s 1,575 projection would represent a 1.4
percent advance from last week and a 10 percent rally for the
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Belski held his
2012 bullish call through the April-to-June decline last year.
He said in October that corporate fundamentals were in
“excellent shape” and in December that  multiple  expansion
would lead stocks higher.  The rally has left the S&P 500  trading  at 15.3 times
reported earnings, higher than it was in April the last two
years, Bloomberg data show.  “Now’s the time to wait and see,” said David Joy, the
Boston-based chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial
Inc., which oversees about $681 billion, said in an April 4
phone interview. Joy predicted gains for equities in December as
housing and manufacturing improved. “There’s no question the
cyclicals are cheaper. The question is, when do they take over
the leadership?” he said. “I wouldn’t be terribly
aggressive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  