-- China Sovereign Fund Seeks Easing of Australia Investment Rules
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-07T01:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/china-sovereign-fund-seeks-easing-of-australia-investment-rules.html
An executive from  China  Investment
Corp., the nation’s $482 billion sovereign wealth fund, told
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  that he hopes her
government will reduce restrictions on foreign investment.  Jin Liqun, head of the fund’s supervisory board, said in an
interview after a group of Chinese and Australian executives met
with Australian officials that he had also raised the issue of
investment limits in past discussions. The restrictions affect
CIC’s investments and fund flows into Australia, Jin said
yesterday in the southern Chinese province of  Hainan , where he’s
attending  the Boao Forum for Asia.  He said Gillard told the executives at the meeting that
Australia welcomes Chinese investment and that the country was
“hungry for capital.”  Gillard, during her trip to China, may seek a deal that
allows direct conversion of Australian dollars into  yuan  to
reduce the cost of trade and investment transactions, the
Australian newspaper reported March 30. She is scheduled to meet
Chinese President Xi Jinping at the Boao Forum and later with
Premier  Li Keqiang  in Beijing, Jin said. China is Australia’s
biggest trading partner.  “China hopes to invest in Australia,” Jin said.
“Australian businessmen also hope to invest in China.”  Jin said that Australia classifies all state-owned Chinese
companies as being extensions of the government and caps the
combined total number of shares they can own in an Australian
company. “We operate independently so you can’t calculate us
together,” he said, adding that he doesn’t expect the issue to
be resolved immediately.  High-level meetings such as those Gillard is to have with
Xi and Li will promote cooperation between the countries and
continued negotiation can lead to a gradual reduction of
barriers to capital, Jin said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Liu in Beijing at 
 lliu255@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  