-- China Pressure Key to Ease North Korea Tension, McCain Says
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-04-07T20:30:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/chinese-pressure-key-to-easing-north-korea-tensions-mccain-says.html
China should use its economic and
political clout to calm tensions with North  Korea  and help guard
against an accidental escalation into armed conflict,  Arizona 
Republican Senator John McCain said.  “China does hold the key to this problem,” McCain said
yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program. “China can cut
off their economy if they want to.”  McCain and  New York  Democratic Senator Charles Schumer
joined in calling for a tougher Chinese response to threats of
nuclear war by North Korea’s dictator Kim Jong Un, as Obama
administration officials said the U.S. delayed a scheduled
missile test to keep from exacerbating tensions.  “The Chinese hold a lot of the cards here,” Schumer said
on the CBS program. “They’re by nature cautious, but they’re
carrying it to an extreme.” China is North Korea’s largest
 trading partner  and closest ally.  “It’s about time they stepped up to the plate,” Schumer
said.  While the U.S. and South Korea would win, an all-out
military conflict with North Korea “would be a catastrophe of
enormous proportions,” McCain said. “More than once, wars have
started by accident.”  U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel postponed an April 9
test of a Minuteman III intercontinental missile from
 California ’s Vandenberg Air Force Base, according to a Defense
Department official who asked not to be identified. The test
probably will occur next month, the official said.  Kim Unknown  U.S. officials were concerned Kim might misinterpret a
Minuteman test as a sign the U.S. and South Korea were preparing
a pre-emptive attack to destroy North Korea’s nuclear weapons
facilities, said the official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because of having access to classified intelligence.  In calibrating its response to Kim, the U.S. has little or
no insight into the Communist leader’s thinking and isn’t even
certain of his age, the official said.  “With Kim Jong Un being a new leader, there’s an unknown
there about why he’s doing this and what does it really mean,”
U.S. Army Chief of Staff  Ray Odierno  said yesterday on Fox News.
“We take it very seriously.”  U.S. Army General James Thurman, who commands 28,000 troops
in South Korea, postponed appearances scheduled for this week
before congressional committees. Thurman will remain in  Seoul 
“as a prudent measure,” according to a statement from Colonel
Amy Hannah, a spokeswoman for U.S. forces in Korea.  Without mentioning North Korea specifically, Chinese
President Xi Jinping yesterday warned against destabilization.  ‘Selfish Gains’  “No one should be allowed to throw a region and even the
whole world into chaos for selfish gains,” Xi said in a speech
at the Boao Forum for Asia in  Hainan . “While pursuing its own
interests, a country should accommodate the legitimate interests
of others.”  Jon Huntsman , a former U.S. ambassador to China, described
the speech as “unprecedented” for Xi, who is the country’s top
political and military leader.  “It suggests to me, as I’ve watched, the ratcheting up of
frustration among Chinese leaders,” Huntsman said on CNN’s
“ State of the Union ” yesterday. “They’ve probably hit the
212-degree boiling point as it relates to North Korea.”  China has advocated talks to ease tensions that escalated
after North Korea detonated a nuclear device in February in
defiance of tightened United Nations sanctions.  South Korea’s benchmark  Kospi stock  index slid 3.9 percent
last week, the biggest weekly decline since May, and the won
fell to a seven-month low.  Refugee Fears  While  China  doesn’t want to see an armed conflict that
could send refugees flooding toward its border, reluctance to be
seen turning against a longtime friend may limit its cooperation
with the U.S. in pressuring North Korea, according to U.S.
officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they
have access to classified intelligence on the situation.  In addition, Kim may not buckle even if the Chinese do
apply some pressure, the officials said. Kim’s grandfather, they
said, ignored the late Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping’s efforts in
the 1980s to promote economic reforms similar to those he was
promoting in China.  “They certainly don’t want the refugees,” former U.S.
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said today on “Face the
Nation.” China, which has an 880-mile (1,416-kilometer) border
with North Korea, may need to be persuaded that the U.S. and
South Korea “have no hostile intent” requiring Kim’s forces to
act as a buffer, she said.  Diplomatic Aspects  “We have to be really careful not to have this escalate,
which is why the diplomatic aspects of it are so important,”
Albright said.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will travel to Asia
later this week for meetings with leaders from South Korea,
China, and  Japan .  North Korea last week told countries including  Russia  and
the U.K. to consider evacuating their embassies from the
capital, warning that they can’t be protected. North Korea told
South Korean companies in the jointly run Gaeseong industrial
complex to leave by April 10.  While China and the U.S. last month agreed on tougher UN
Security Council sanctions against North Korea after its nuclear
test, American officials have traveled to Beijing to seek
commitments on implementation.  “Clearly, with the border that they have, with the
economic relationship that they have, they can do more,” Susan
Rice, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, said in an
April 5 interview on  MSNBC .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  