-- China’s Xi Warns Against Regional Chaos as Korea Tensions Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-07T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/china-s-xi-says-region-can-t-enter-chaos-as-korea-tensions-rise.html
Chinese President Xi Jinping said no
country should be allowed to instigate regional chaos after
 North Korea ’s mounting threats to attack the U.S. and  South
Korea  included warnings of pre-emptive nuclear strikes.  “No one should be allowed to throw a region and even the
whole world into chaos for selfish gains,” Xi said yesterday in
a speech at the Boao Forum for  Asia  in  Hainan . “While pursuing
its own interests, a country should accommodate the legitimate
interests of others.”  China , North Korea’s biggest trading partner, has advocated
talks to ease tensions escalated after Kim Jong Un’s regime
detonated a nuclear device in February in defiance of tightened
United Nations sanctions. UN envoy  Susan Rice  last week said the
U.S. is pushing Xi’s government to “do more” to rein in its
ally. In an effort to reduce strains, the U.S. delayed a test of
an intercontinental ballistic missile.  “While President Xi didn’t refer to North Korea, it is
fair” to interpret his comments as directed toward the Korean
situation, said Fang Xiuyu, a professor of Korean studies at
Fudan University. “Xi’s remarks are the most decisive comments
so far from the Chinese side of the issue.”  South Korea’s Kospi index fell more than  3 percent  last
week and the won dropped about 1.5 percent as North Korea said
it was poised to conduct a “smaller, lighter and diversified
nuclear strike.” Kim’s regime maintains that joint South
Korean-U.S. military drills that go on until the end of April
are a rehearsal for a nuclear attack against it.  ‘Selling Climax’  “Last week probably marked a selling climax,” said Im
Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $29 billion. “The
 Kospi index (KOSPI)  is likely to stabilize and then try to rebound.
There’s little chance of North Korea actually taking provocative
actions.”  The U.S. has decided to postpone a test of a Minuteman III
intercontinental missile from Vandenberg Air Force Base in
 California  to avoid exacerbating the situation, according to a
Defense Department official who asked not to be identified.
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel made the decision to re-schedule
the test, which will probably be next month, the official said.  China is “seriously concerned” about the rising tensions,
and will safeguard the rights and safety of its citizens in
North Korea, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said in a
statement yesterday. The Chinese embassy in Pyongyang is under
normal operations, he added.  Missile Warning  His statement came after North Korea last week asked
countries including  Russia  and the U.K. to consider evacuating
their embassies from the capital, warning that they can’t be
protected. North Korea told South Korean companies in the
jointly run Gaeseong industrial complex to leave by April 10.  South Korea yesterday said Kim’s regime may fire a missile
on or around that date. President Park Geun Hye is ready for any
provocation, according to the statement from spokesman Kim
Haeng, citing national security chief Kim Jang Soo.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who met Xi
yesterday at the Boao Forum, said China’s president told her he
shares concerns about North Korea and that the priority is to
prevent further escalation. Gillard, speaking at a press
briefing, said Xi told her China doesn’t want to see conflict
and that his aspiration is to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula.  UN Sanctions  While China and the U.S. last month agreed on tougher UN
Security Council sanctions against North Korea after its nuclear
test, American officials have traveled to Beijing to seek
commitment on implementation.  “Clearly, with the border that they have, with the
economic relationship that they have, they can do more,” Rice
said in an April 5 interview with  MSNBC .  The Obama administration is seeking “a de-escalation of
these tensions,” she said, adding the U.S. wants to convey the
message that it can defend itself and its allies without
“getting too jumpy.”  In his speech yesterday, Xi also said that the right of
countries to independently choose their social systems and
development paths should be respected and that non-Asian
countries should respect Asian diversity. Countries from outside
Asia are welcome to play a constructive role in regional
stability and development, Xi said.  His admonition against regional disorder “is a tough
warning to the Kim regime not to escalate tensions,” said Willy Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the  Chinese University
of Hong Kong . “I think this warning also has implications for
the U.S. and South Korea to cool it a little bit and not to
provoke the Kim regime.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Li Liu in Beijing at 
 lliu255@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  