-- China President Xi Says Global Economic Recovery Remains Elusive
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-07T07:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/china-president-xi-says-global-economic-recovery-remains-elusive.html
Chinese President Xi Jinping said
the global economy has entered a period of “profound
readjustment” and recovery remains elusive.  The international financial industry is fraught with risks
and protectionism is on the rise, Xi said in a speech at the
Boao Forum for Asia in the southern Chinese province of  Hainan 
today. Countries are still facing difficulties in adjusting
their economic structure and the global-governance mechanism
needs improvement, he said.  Policy makers around the world face growing risks of
stagnant or slowing growth. Last week alone, the  Bank of Japan 
said it will start unprecedented stimulus to counter 15 years of
deflation, data showed U.S. employers added the fewest workers
in nine months and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said the institution is prepared to cut  interest rates  if the
economy deteriorates further.  “Achieving common development for all countries remains an
uphill battle,” Xi said. “Rather than undercutting each
other’s efforts, countries should complement each other and work
for joint progress.”  Speaking at the same forum today,  Christine Lagarde ,
managing director of the  International Monetary Fund , said
countries need to “reaccelerate” the process of cooperation
that was evident at the beginning of the financial crisis.  “There was a very strong sense of urgency and a massive
desire to cooperate,” Lagarde said. “But let’s be honest about
it: That sense of urgency has clearly abated as the crisis has
tempered and as recovery has been a bit more patchy.”  Full Confidence  The spillover effects of monetary and fiscal policies
“have significantly accelerated and heightened,” she said,
without naming any countries. “This means that all countries
and regions need to act with an even greater sense of
responsibility -- responsibility not solely for the consequences
of their policy for their own nation, for their own regions, but
also for the rest of the world.”  Xi said he is “full of confidence in  China ’s future” and
that the nation will maintain “robust  growth  momentum.”
Domestic demand, particularly consumption-driven demand, will
continue to grow and outbound investment will increase
“substantially,” he said.  China’s economy  expanded at an annual average 10.5 percent
pace over the past decade and new Premier  Li Keqiang  said last
month that the country needs to achieve growth of 7.5 percent a
year to meet the country’s targets for 2020, which include
doubling per capita income. Gross domestic product rose 7.8
percent last year, the least since 1999.  Everyone Benefits  “The more China grows, the more development opportunities
it will create for the rest of Asia and the world,” Xi said
today.  Since the beginning of the century, China’s trade with its
neighbors has grown from $100 billion to more than $1.3
trillion, and China has become the biggest trading partner and
 export  market and a major source of investment for many of these
nations, Xi said.  Trade within  Asia  has increased to $3 trillion from $800
billion in the last 10 years, and trade with other regions has
grown to $4.8 trillion from $1.5 trillion, he said, according to
the official Xinhua News Agency.  “This shows that cooperation in Asia is open and it goes
hand in hand with Asia’s cooperation with other regions, and
everyone has benefited from such cooperation,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  