-- Copts Denounce Egypt’s Mursi as Violence Erupts at Church
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-04-08T14:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/copts-denounce-egypt-s-mursi-as-violence-erupts-at-church.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
sought to contain growing sectarian turmoil as the death toll
from days of Muslim-Christian clashes climbed to eight and the
opposition seized on it as another example of his failures.  The worst sectarian violence in months has added to the
chaos that has convulsed  Egypt  since Mursi’s election in June.
The president is under assault from an array of critics
frustrated by political instability and a stalled economy.  Clashes rekindled overnight in Khosous, the town outside
Cairo where the fighting began over the weekend, killing one
person and injuring 14, the state-run Middle East News Agency
reported today, citing Health Ministry official Khaled el-
Khateeb. Two others died and 89 were injured in fighting
yesterday outside a Coptic cathedral in Cairo, where services
had been held for four Christians killed in the weekend
violence, el-Khateeb said, updating earlier reports of one dead.  Mursi reached out to Coptic Pope Tawadros II in an evening
phone call yesterday, telling him “I consider any aggression
against the cathedral as aggression against me,” the Islamist
leader’s office said in a statement on its Facebook page. The
pope said on Twitter that the church “pays its condolences to
the families of those martyred, and awaits the outcome of
security investigations.”  Sectarian Violence  Egypt’s Copts, long disadvantaged under Mursi’s ousted
predecessor  Hosni Mubarak , have voiced concerns about the
Islamists’ growing power. At yesterday’s services, many called
for Mursi to quit and denounced him as a “puppet president” of
the Muslim Brotherhood, which fielded him for office.  The violence is the latest in a series of “desperate
attempts to subvert our national unity,” the Brotherhood’s
supreme guide, Mohammed Badie, said on the group’s website.
“They will not succeed, God willing.”  Mursi and the Brotherhood have frequently blamed violent
episodes on unidentified people they say are seeking to
destabilize Egypt.  The recurring unrest has undermined Mursi’s efforts to
revive an economy damaged by the flight of investors and
tourists after the 2011 uprising against Mubarak. Rising
 inflation , triggered by a slump in the currency, shortages of
fuel and other goods and growing poverty and unemployment have
stoked protests against him. Mursi is also embroiled in a
dispute with the judiciary and trying to end a train strike.  Contradictory Reports  A leading opposition group that’s part of the broader
National Salvation Front bloc blamed Mursi and his government
for failing to provide security.  “Security forces interfere violently where politics is
needed, while these forces are always absent when people are
looking for security,” the Popular Current, headed by former
presidential candidate Hamdeen Sabahi, said in a statement.  Reports about what triggered the sectarian fighting were
contradictory. According to one account by local police,
Christian boys were caught defacing the outside wall of a
mosque.  Fighting in Khosous resumed overnight with two houses set
ablaze, the state-run Ahram Gate reported. Bishop Suriel Yonan,
the pastor of Saint  George Church  in Khosous, appealed for calm
as a group of agitated youths chanted, “With our souls, our
blood, we sacrifice ourselves for you, o crucifix.”  “I’m urging you to go home and give the government and the
police a chance to work,” he told them, according to footage on
 Al Jazeera . “I trust their ability to arrest those terrorists
and criminals.”  ‘Very Unresponsive’  Mourners leaving the Cairo service yesterday were pelted
with rocks and bottles, police Major Mohamed Hassan said by
phone.  Some worshipers retreated back inside the church, Ishak
Ibrahim, a researcher who monitors religious freedom at the
 Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights , said by phone.
“Security forces have been very unresponsive,” he said.  Mursi ordered a probe into the latest incidents. The U.S.
Embassy in Egypt condemned the violence while welcoming Mursi’s
pledge to investigate it.  The president has repeatedly said he will ensure that
Christians, who make up about 10 percent of the population, are
afforded equal opportunities. Critics say those pledges haven’t
translated into action, pointing to Mursi’s focus on pushing
through an Islamist-backed constitution that many Christian and
secular groups opposed.  The president’s approval rating has dropped to 47 percent
after nine months in office, from 78 percent after his first 100
days, according to a Baseera opinion poll conducted in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  