-- Cyprus Woes Threaten East Europe GDP, Development Bank Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2013-04-08T16:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/cyprus-woes-threaten-east-europe-growth-development-bank-says.html
Cyprus’s bailout threatens to slow
eastern European growth through trade and banking links if it
sparks capital flight from the most indebted euro-area nations,
the  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development  said.  Another bout of uncertainty in Europe’s debt crisis may
boost financing costs for banks and potentially trigger an
outflow of “large” deposits and funding in countries with
weaker lenders or sovereigns, EBRD Deputy Chief Economist
Jeromin Zettelmeyer said in an April 5 interview in London.  Eastern Europe relied on foreign capital flows and easy
access to credit and export markets to fuel growth of more than
5 percent a year before the global crisis of 2008. The Cyprus
bailout, in which international creditors forced losses on large
depositors in exchange for a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) aid
package, may lead to capital flight and weaker growth in
countries such as Italy and  Spain , Zettelmeyer said.  “These are very important countries and they are very
large, and so if there’s a slowdown in the EU as a result of
this it would certainly affect” the 29 eastern European and
central Asian countries where the EBRD operates, he said. “The
risks are higher than we thought and they are further to the
downside than what we thought.”  ‘Contagion’ Fears  The Czech koruna, the  Hungarian forint , the Russian ruble
and the Polish zloty are among the 10 worst performers this year
of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
koruna and the forint fell 2.5 percent and 1.8 percent
respectively against the euro, while the zloty and the ruble
both weakened 0.9 percent.  The benchmark Czech PX Index has fallen 9.3 percent in
2013, while  Poland ’s WIG has dropped 6.1 percent, Slovenia’s
Ljubljana Stock Exchange Blue-Chip Index has lost 8.8 percent
and  Russia ’s Micex Index is down 4.4 percent.  “Most emerging European stock markets and currencies have
weakened over the past month on the back of the Cypriot crisis
and fears of contagion to the rest of the euro zone,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging-markets economist at London-based
Capital Economics, wrote in an e-mailed note today. “This
serves as a timely reminder that the crisis in the euro zone is
far from over, and that the region’s financial markets are in
for a bumpy ride this year.”  ‘Terribly Difficult’  The EBRD forecast in January that eastern European economic
growth will pick up to 3 percent this year from 2.6 percent in
2012. It will update the projection in early May.  “Our last forecast assumed that GDP in the region was
turning around in the first quarter,” Zettelmeyer said. “It is
terribly difficult to say whether this was thrown off track by
the Cyprus episode or not.”  While concerns by large depositors may be “overdone,” the
EU hasn’t done enough to reassure them that the formula used in
Cyprus remains a unique solution, Zettelmeyer said.  “This is not something that’s been clarified and it would
certainly help to have more clarity on this by the EU,” he
said.  While the rescue of Cyprus prompted concern in financial
markets that Slovenia, the first former communist nation to
adopt the euro, may be next in line for a bailout, the former
Yugoslav country may be able to avoid aid “if the government
does the right thing,” according to Zettelmeyer.  ‘Very Different’  Eastern  Europe ’s banking systems lack reliance on “a
massive volume” of large deposits and that includes Slovenia,
making it “very different” from Cyprus, according to
Zettelmeyer.  Slovenia, battling its second recession since 2009 and
rising bad debts at its banks, is trying to avoid becoming the
sixth euro nation to ask for aid. Banks such as Nova Ljubljanska
Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.  are struggling
with surging bad loans after the collapse of the  construction
industry , which fueled growth before the crisis. Bad loans
account for about a fifth of economic output.  Investor concern that the government will fail to implement
a 4 billion-euro plan to prop up banks and lose access to
financing abroad boosted borrowing costs at a time when the
Alpine nation is looking to tap bond markets.  Funding Needs  The country needs about 3 billion euros of funding this
year, while banks require an additional 1 billion euros of
capital, the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  said
last month. The previous government of Janez Jansa, which fell
Feb. 27 amid a corruption scandal, had proposed the plan to deal
with bad assets that Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek pledged to
follow with some unspecified changes.  Bratusek, who took office three weeks ago, told parliament
March 27 that her government would rebuild ailing banks and
press ahead with austerity measures to improve state finances
that are in “bad shape.”  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 rose 7 basis points to 5.68 percent as of 5:39 p.m. in
the capital, Ljubljana, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
yield has declined 73 basis points since climbing to a record
6.382 percent on March 27.  “It will all depend on the execution and the credibility
of that plan,” Zettelmeyer said. “The government is also doing
everything it can at this point to avoid requiring EU and IMF
assistance. As long as they’re doing the right thing they may
well not need it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  