-- Danish Mortgages IMF Condemns Should Stay, Rohde Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-04-08T05:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/danish-mortgages-imf-condemns-should-stay-rohde-says.html
Denmark doesn’t need to phase out
interest-only mortgages identified by the International Monetary
Fund as risky and should instead ensure banks only give the
loans to borrowers who can afford them, central bank Governor
Lars Rohde said.  The mortgages, which both the Washington-based IMF and
Standard & Poor’s have warned are adding risk to Denmark’s $500
billion  mortgage market , have helped create a diversified home-
loan industry, Rohde said in an interview in Copenhagen on April
5. It’s up to the banks to consider applying harsher loan-to-
value requirements to prevent borrowers breaching regulatory
limits, he said.  “I like that there’s a freedom of choice in the palette of
mortgages available and that there are lots of different types
of products that borrowers can choose between,” said Rohde, 59,
who took over as central bank governor from Nils Bernstein in
February. “But the mortgage lenders need to ensure that people
who use these products can afford to do so.”  The IMF is urging Denmark to drop interest-only mortgages,
which since their 2003 debut have offered borrowers a 10-year
hiatus on principal payments. The loans, prohibited in many
other countries, now threaten to weaken the stability of
Denmark’s mortgage system, the IMF argues. According to Rohde,
the problem isn’t the type of loan but the practice of banks
handing them out to borrowers without buffers to withstand
house-price declines.  ‘More Restrictive’  “It looks like it would have been wise to be more
restrictive in providing interest-only loans and that loan-to-
value limits should have been considerably lower than the 80
percent that otherwise applies,” Rohde said. “But that’s a
matter for the issuers to sort out. House prices can fall, we’ve
seen that.”  Loan-to-value ratios on interest-only loans should probably
be “significantly” lower than the 80 percent regulatory cap
that applies to most of the rest of Denmark’s residential
mortgage market, he said.  Rohde’s defense of interest-only loans marks a departure
from the line adopted by his predecessor, Bernstein, who argued
the products were inherently risky and should be phased out.  Standard & Poor’s said last month Denmark needs to find
ways to encourage borrowers to repay their principal. The
government has already rejected an industry plan to limit the
debt pool affected by amortization requirements by splitting
mortgages in breach of loan-to-value rules so that interest-only
terms would still have applied to loan amounts within the 80
percent LTV cap.  Protecting AAA  Rohde has said he backs the government’s decision. “To
protect the mostly AAA ratings of Denmark’s mortgage bonds, we
can’t allow ourselves to introduce any changes that could weaken
the market,” he said.  Since their introduction a decade ago, interest-only
mortgages have grown in popularity and now make up 56 percent of
outstanding mortgage debt, industry figures show.  Denmark’s house prices have lost more than 20 percent since
the nation’s property bubble burst in 2008, eroding equity and
leaving fewer borrowers eligible to roll over their debt into
new interest-only mortgages. More than 100,000 homeowners may
need help as amortization requirements start from this year,
according to a February study by the University of Southern
Denmark.  “The borrowers affected by amortization requirements from
this year only make up a very small portion of the total,”
Rohde said. “There’s no need to change the legislation” to
help them, he said. “Borrowers should have known when they took
the loans that they’d have to start amortizing the debt 10 years
later and that time has now come.”  Systemic Risk  Rohde, whose position as central bank governor also makes
him chairman of Denmark’s Systemic Risk Board, said he’s not in
favor of imposing stricter regulatory requirements on mortgage
banks.  “I trust enough in markets to believe that mortgage
lenders should be able to administer this themselves, but it’s
obviously also in their own interest to ensure that there’s no
risk,” he said.  Rohde said he will use his position as head of the Systemic
Risk Board to provide recommendations to the financial industry
in an effort to try and avert future crises. The onus will be on
the financial industry to explain itself if it doesn’t comply,
he said.  Bank Capital  Rohde said he’s also unlikely to be swayed by complaints
from bankers that stricter capital requirements will stunt
economic growth.  “There’s a lot of discussion about the extent to which
stricter capital requirements are a growth killer,” he said.
“That’s not a concern I share. It’s based on a false premise,
namely that return on equity demands will remain the same. But
if a bank has more equity, the risk falls, and the required
return should also fall. One should also be able to fund oneself
at a lower cost, so the overall cost of higher capital
requirements for the bank should be close to neutral.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  