-- Egypt Copts Blast Mursi at Memorial After Fatal Weekend Clashes
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-04-07T12:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/egypt-copts-blast-mursi-at-memorial-after-fatal-weekend-clashes.html
Hundreds of grieving Coptic
Christians packed inside a Cairo cathedral called for an end to
Muslim Brotherhood rule after the worst sectarian clashes in
months laid bare the polarization in the country.  The anguish in the church today erupted ahead of funerals
for at least four Christians killed in weekend fighting with
Muslims in the Greater Cairo town of Khosous. The skirmishing
was the bloodiest in a weekend of political violence as a
leading youth organization took its opposition to Islamist
President Mohamed Mursi to the streets.  “Leave,” some of the protesters chanted in reference to
Mursi, echoing the calls that drove his predecessor,  Hosni Mubarak , from office during the 2011 uprising. Others, in
between sobs, yelled: “Down, down, with the Murshid’s rule,” a
reference to the Muslim Brotherhood’s supreme guide. Others
dubbed Mursi a “puppet president.”  Compounding the unrest was a strike by train drivers and
conductors that largely paralyzed the nation’s railway system
and highlighted the deepening tensions in the Arab world’s most
populous nation, which has seen little of the economic or
political revival hoped for after Mursi took office in June.  Authorities referred striking workers for investigation so
legal action could be taken against them, Hussein Zakariya, the
head of the country’s railway authority, told state-run Middle
East  News Agency .  Reports about what triggered the fighting in Khosous were
contradictory. One account held that Christian boys were caught
defacing the outside wall of a mosque.  Authorities opened an investigation into the violence at
youth activist protests in Cairo and other cities, a move that
could open the door to new allegations against Mursi’s
opponents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  