-- Gillard’s China Visit Gives Impetus to Trade, Investment Links
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-07T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/gillard-s-china-visit-gives-impetus-to-trade-investment-links.html
Australia is taking the right steps
toward a better relationship with China, with Prime Minister
Julia Gillard’s visit providing fresh impetus, according to
mining magnate Andrew Forrest.  “We have started to take the relationship a bit for
granted,” said Forrest, chairman of  Fortescue Metals Group
Ltd. (FMG) , in an interview broadcast by Sky News yesterday. “Other
countries have moved ahead of us. The prime minister coming to
the Boao Forum basically puts us head-to-head with all the
countries competing for China’s business on a fair and even
playing field.”  Gillard yesterday addressed the forum in the southern
province of  Hainan  and met China President Xi Jinping, before
heading a delegation of business leaders and ministers in a
visit to Shanghai and Beijing. China is Australia’s biggest
export market, buying about a third of all overseas sales in
February, and is a major customer for iron ore and coal.  Expanding the relationship with China requires development
of trust and friendship at high levels between companies and
politicians, said Forrest, the chairman of  Australia ’s third-
biggest iron-ore producer. He has led the establishment of a
forum for business leaders that had its inaugural meeting in
Boao, and urged the government to open the doors to more Chinese
investment.  “We have nothing to fear,” he said. “They can’t take the
farms away, they can’t take the business away. But they can
inject capital in our economy. We do need that foreign
investment.”  Currency Conversion  Gillard may seek a deal during her visit enabling direct
conversion of Australian dollars into Chinese  yuan , the
Australian newspaper reported March 30. Gillard told reporters
yesterday that she and Xi didn’t discuss the mechanics of such
an agreement.  China Investment Corp., the nation’s $482 billion sovereign
wealth fund, raised the issue of restrictions on foreign
investment with Gillard,  Jin Liqun , head of the fund’s
supervisory board, said in an interview.  He said Gillard told a group of Australia and Chinese
executives that Australia welcomes Chinese investment and that
the country was “hungry for capital.”  High-level meetings will promote cooperation between the
countries and continued negotiation can lead to a gradual
reduction of barriers to capital, Jin said.  Australia is open to foreign investment from China and its
continuing to have discussions to advance a free-trade
agreement, Gillard told reporters in Boao on April 6.  “We work every day to strengthen our relationship with
China,” she said. “That’s what we’ve done as a government and
that’s what I’m doing here. There are huge opportunities for
Australian businesses here in  China .”  “Deep Understanding”  Gillard said yesterday after meeting with Xi that he
“brings to the table a deep understanding of Australia.”  The government and its regulator the Foreign Investment
Review Board have met recently with representatives of China
Investment Corp., which is looking at investments beyond
minerals and energy, Trade Minister Craig Emerson told reporters
April 6.  “We don’t sit back on these things,” he said. “We are
proactive because we know we are a savings-deficit country, that
we do need foreign investment. We are committing to that for the
future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  