-- Icahn’s Nuance Stake Spurs Optimism of Sale: Real M&A
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-04-08T20:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/icahn-s-nuance-stake-spurs-optimism-of-sale-real-m-a.html
Carl Icahn ’s purchase of  Nuance
Communications Inc. (NUAN)  shares is spurring speculation he will seek
a break-up or sale of the speech-recognition  software developer .  Nuance  surged  5.7 percent on April 2 after Icahn’s 9.3
percent stake was revealed, resurrecting a stock that plunged 19
percent on Feb. 8. The slump -- which drove Nuance’s price-
earnings  ratio  to the lowest level since 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg -- was prompted by the $6.5 billion
company cutting its forecast due to health-care and personal
computer-related sales.  Icahn may pressure Nuance to sell its document-imaging
division, according to Deutsche Bank AG and Mizuho Financial
Group Inc. That would help Nuance reduce its $2.3 billion debt
and improve sales growth at the company, Craig-Hallum Capital
Group LLC said. Its voice-recognition technology, used on
millions of devices, could make Nuance a takeover target for
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Avondale Partners LLC said, while Deutsche Bank
sees International Business Machines Corp. as a suitor.  Icahn “could push for strategic changes,”  Joanna Makris ,
a New York-based analyst at Mizuho, said in a telephone
interview. “There’s been a lot of frustration over the balance
sheet and performance.”  Richard Mack , a spokesman for Nuance, declined to comment
on what Icahn’s intentions might be.  ‘Same Respect’  “Nuance will offer Mr. Icahn and his firm the same respect
and accord we offer our other investors,” Mack said in an e-
mail. “We always seek to maintain an open dialogue with
shareholders, yet keep discussions with individual investors
private.”  Icahn didn’t respond to a request for comment. John Reilly
of Armonk, New York-based IBM and Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft’s Tony Imperati said their companies don’t comment on
speculation.  Nuance Chief Executive Officer Paul Ricci has built up the
Burlington, Massachusetts-based company through acquisitions,
expanding into areas such as medical transcription and software
for managing corporate  printing costs . From 2006 to 2012, Nuance
spent more than $2.5 billion on takeovers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In the process, the company’s  total debt 
more than doubled from less than $900 million as recently as
2011.  “There’s been so much M&A, and it hasn’t resulted in
meaningful organic growth,” Makris said. “I can see Icahn just
being more vocal” about slowing the pace of takeovers.  Lower Forecast  In February, Nuance  reduced  its fiscal 2013 forecasts,
spurring the stock’s biggest one-day drop in more than six
years. The shares kept falling, and Nuance’s price-earnings
 ratio  slipped to 20.5 on March 1, the cheapest level since 2009.  Sales for the year ending in September will be $2.15
billion to $2.2 billion, down from a November projection of
$2.17 billion to $2.22 billion, the company  said  Feb. 7. Nuance
also cut its profit forecast to $1.76 to $1.87 a share, from
$1.84 to $1.94.  Icahn, known for taking over corporations and pressing
companies to change strategy, filed his Nuance stake via a form
13G, not the 13D used for activist investments. There’s
precedent for Icahn investing in companies and not requesting
any strategy adjustments, including his almost 10 percent  stake 
in online-movie service  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  disclosed in October.  Still, after Nuance shares fell 20 percent in the past
year, FBR & Co.’s  Daniel Ives  sees the potential for Icahn to
become more active at the company after Nuance failed to
capitalize on recent acquisitions.  ‘Lackluster’ Execution  “Execution has been lackluster over the last six to 12
months,” Ives, a New York-based analyst at FBR, said in a phone
interview. “It could translate into potentially more
activism.”  Today, shares of Nuance lost 1.2 percent to $20.27.  Icahn could push Nuance to sell its imaging business, which
sells products for scanning documents and turning them into
digital text, according to Jeff Van Rhee, an analyst at Craig-
Hallum in Philadelphia.  Because of its cash generation, the imaging business could
appeal to a private-equity buyer and fetch as much as $400
million, Nandan Amladi, an analyst at Deutsche Bank in  New York ,
said in a phone interview. Selling that division could help
Nuance pare its debt, helping the rest of the company sell for a
higher valuation, Van Rhee said in an interview.  Microsoft, IBM  “There’s a lot here that Microsoft or  IBM (IBM)  might want,”
Van Rhee said. Nuance, whose shares closed at $20.52 last week,
could command a premium of 30 percent to 40 percent, Amladi
said.  IBM already  collaborates  with Nuance on research projects.
IBM is emphasizing mobile technologies -- one of Nuance’s
strengths -- with the goal of doubling its investment in that
area this year, not including takeovers it could make. Nuance’s
health-care technology could also be complementary for IBM, Van
Rhee said.  Microsoft is another potential buyer, said John Bright, an
analyst at Avondale. Speech recognition technology, for which
Nuance holds many patents, is becoming increasingly critical in
facilitating user interaction with various computing devices,
ranging from PCs to tablets and smartphones.  While Microsoft owns speech-recognition technology from its
2007 acquisition of Tellme Networks Inc., it could use Nuance’s
patents and relationships with carriers, handset makers and car
companies to gain market share for products like Windows Phone,
which is lagging behind devices running Google Inc.’s Android
operating system and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, Bright said.  Losing Apple  “The problem is, Microsoft probably doesn’t want health
care, and they would probably lose Apple as a result,”
Nashville-based Bright said in a phone interview. Nuance’s
 customers  include Amazon.com Inc., Apple and Samsung Electronics
Co., according to filings from the company.  Given Icahn’s purchase of Nuance shares, investors are
expecting him to get more active, according to Tom Roderick, an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “Any time you get an activist shareholder involved, the
perception is there’s something within the structure of the
company they’d like to change,” the Chicago-based analyst said
in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  