-- IMF’s Lagarde Says Substantial Part of Global Economy Better
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-07T14:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/imf-s-lagarde-says-substantial-part-of-global-economy-better.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said that while a “substantial
portion” of the global economy appears better now than a year
ago, some risks persist.  “Growth continues to strengthen and broaden among the
emerging and developing economies,” and momentum is starting to
pick up in the U.S., Lagarde said today in remarks at the Boao
Forum for  Asia , in the southern Chinese province of  Hainan .  Lagarde said she was giving a preview of the IMF’s World
Economic Outlook report due next week, without providing numbers.
The IMF in January cut its 2013 global growth forecast to 3.5
percent and predicted a second year of contraction in the 17-
country euro area.  Risks include a “patchy recovery” with concerns that
“naturally center on Europe,” Lagarde said. “While there has
been progress on a number of fronts, policy solutions will take
time to be completed and effective,” she said.  Fiscal risks are also weighing on growth, she said, citing
spending cuts in the U.S. and a “medium-term challenge” in
 Japan . Monetary policies have limits in their effectiveness and
may include unintended consequences, Lagarde said, while
praising last week’s expanded stimulus from the  Bank of Japan  as
“another welcome step in this direction.”  Cyprus Rescue  After decades of lending to developing economies in crisis,
the IMF is now co-funding bailouts for  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Ireland to help the euro region exit its debt turmoil. The
global lender said last week it will contribute about 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) to a rescue program for Cyprus that Lagarde
called “challenging.”  Lagarde said in response to questions after the speech
today that Cyprus is “certainly no template of how things of
that nature should be resolved.” Cyprus was special in part
because of the size of the banking industry compared with the
country’s economy, she said.  The euro “has a future, and has a longstanding one,”
Lagarde said. “The collective political will to maintain,
defend, protect and enhance the monetary and currency zone, has
been largely underestimated.”  Collective debt in  Europe  is “clearly one of the next
steps that have to be considered,” she said.  Asian economies have adjusted well to the aftermath of the
global financial crisis with “resilient domestic demand’ and
capital inflows, Lagarde said. At the same time, some economies
have seen financial imbalances and rising asset prices, such as
 Hong Kong ’s property market, she said. Many Asian countries will
need to consider when and how to reduce policy support assuming
the global recovery stays on track, Lagarde said.  Green Growth  The former French finance minister urged leaders to pursue
“green growth that respects environmental sustainability and
supports economic sustainability.” Environmental issues “are
on the minds of China’s new leadership,” she said.  Lagarde said that  China ’s government has made some progress
in improving monitoring of local-government debt. Other
countries have seen financing by regional authorities “bump up
significantly public debt,” she said.  --Liza Lin, Nerys Avery, Sandrine Rastello. Editors: Scott Lanman, Kevin Costelloe  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net 
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  