-- Liquidity Carpet Bombs Fueling Asset Bubbles, Rohde Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-04-08T13:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/liquidity-carpet-bombs-fueling-asset-bubbles-rohde-says.html
Policy makers steering the global
economy have pumped the financial system with so much liquidity
that any exit risks popping potential asset bubbles or stunting
a recovery, Danish central bank Governor Lars Rohde said.  “The risk is we stay in this climate too long and that the
carpet bombing of liquidity spurs inflation,” Rohde, 59, said
in an April 5 interview from his office in Copenhagen. Though
there are no current signs of consumer price inflation “there
is inflation, perhaps a bubble, in some asset classes,” he
said. “ Equities (MXWO)  are trading close to all-time highs. Segments
of property markets across the globe, for example  London , also
display symptoms of this. How do we exit this without killing
whatever nascent recovery there might be at that time?”  The warning from the head of Denmark’s central bank, which
has kept its deposit rate  below zero  since July, comes as policy
makers in Japan, the euro area and the U.S. deliver
unprecedented monetary stimulus to drag the global economy out
of the worst crisis since the Great Depression. Easy money has
fueled equity prices, helping send the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index to an  all-time high  on April 2. The yield on  Japan ’s
benchmark 10-year bond hit its lowest on record last week.  “We’re in a landscape where we’ve never been before, with
regard to extreme monetary accommodation over a very, very long
period of time,” said Rohde, who took over as the head of
Denmark’s central bank in February. “What does that end up
doing to a society? It’s been a necessary policy, but I have my
concerns about what the long-term risks are.”  Crisis Policies  The prospect of a reversal of crisis policies looks remote
as the euro area bails out a fifth nation and Japan’s central
bank embarks on a new phase of monetary easing, doubling its
monetary base as it targets faster price growth. The developed
world’s record-low interest rates are giving a false sense of
affordability to projects and businesses that would probably
fail in a more normal monetary climate, Rohde said.  “The risk is that we’ll have companies that are only able
to survive because interest rates are extremely low. But these
are companies that ought to have gone down,” he said. “We’re
seeing projects going through that wouldn’t be sustainable at
higher interest rates. We’re seeing zombie companies and zombie
economies because of the extremely low interest rates.”  Limited Success  So far the crisis policies deployed by central banks since
2008 have had limited success in generating any lasting
recovery. The 17-nation euro area will contract 0.3 percent this
year after shrinking 0.6 percent in 2012, the European
Commission estimates. Both the U.S. and Japan will expand less
than 2 percent this year, the commission said Feb. 22.  The effect of crisis measures such as quantitative easing
is also fading, according to  Angel Gurria , secretary-general of
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  “In order to get the productivity and competitiveness you
have to go to the structural policies. We ran out of room on the
monetary policy side,” Gurria said in Oslo today. “We are now
at zero interest rates, or very close to it. The QEI, II and III
and all those are clearly moving into what I would call
diminishing returns.”  The U.S. Federal Reserve has held its benchmark rate close
to zero since 2008, while Japan’s main rate is between zero and
0.1 percent. The Frankfurt-based European Central Bank has held
its policy rate at 0.75 percent since July in an effort to ease
the region’s debt crisis. All three have supplemented policy
rate setting with some form of bond-purchase program.  ‘Too Fast’  “If we exit this regime too fast, too abruptly, then there
are several corners of asset markets that could start showing
signs of a bubble in the process of bursting,” Rohde said.  In  Denmark , where monetary policy defends the krone’s peg
to the euro, the central bank raised rates in January. That
followed signs  Europe  might be able to stem its debt crisis,
prompting investors temporarily to turn their backs on haven
markets. The Danish central bank’s deposit rate is minus 0.1
percent and the benchmark lending rate is 0.3 percent.  Denmark, which boasts a debt load that’s half the euro
zone’s average, probably won’t raise rates again for at least
another three months, according to economists at Danske Bank
A/S, Jyske Bank A/S, Nordea Bank AB and Svenska Handelsbanken
AB.  “The krone is stable against the euro,” Rohde said.
“It’s hard to claim that the krone’s exchange rate is
undervalued.”  ‘Resounding No’  Though the central bank supports euro adoption, a
referendum is unlikely to be “an option for a considerable time
to come,” Rohde said in an interview last month. Most Danes
would vote against a currency switch, a Danske Bank A/S poll
conducted by Statistics Danmark showed in March.  “I believe Denmark should one day be a member of the
euro,” Rohde said in the April 5 interview. “Is it realistic
in the foreseeable future? For political reasons, the answer is
a resounding no.”  Rohde also argues that the “euro is actually in balance
against the dollar.” There’s “nothing that indicates the euro
isn’t within a likely level of where it ought to be. The
exchange rate has fluctuated a bit but the euro’s not
fundamentally over- or undervalued,” he said.  Excessive monetary easing isn’t evidence of central bankers
trying to manipulate their currencies, Rohde said. Policies
being deployed target domestic challenges, he said.  “It does create some unfortunate side-effects, but to talk
of a resurgence of competitive devaluations, I don’t see any
evidence of this,” he said. “My clear impression is that all
talk of currency wars is exaggerated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  