-- Iran to Boost Gas Exports in Efforts to Cut Oil Sales Reliance
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-04-07T15:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/iran-to-boost-gas-exports-in-efforts-to-cut-oil-sales-reliance.html
Iran  plans increase its natural gas
exports as a way to diminish its reliance on crude sales, a
senior Iranian Oil Ministry official said.  Iran will “witness a change in the revenues of the country
from crude oil to natural gas,” said Javad Owji, managing
director of National Iranian Gas Co., according to the state-run
 Mehr  news agency. Owji, who didn’t specify how much Iran earns
from oil and gas sales separately, pointed to the country’s goal
to triple gas shipments to some of its neighbors.  “By signing new deals with  Turkey  and  Iraq , Iran will
increase natural gas exports to about 100 million cubic meters
by next year from a current 35 million,” Owji said. Iran’s gas
exports total 10 billion cubic meters per year, he said.  Iran, one of the producers of the 12-member Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, is battling U.S. and European
Union energy sanctions over its nuclear program that have
limited its oil sales. The Persian Gulf country also holds the
world’s second-largest gas reserves and its gas industry isn’t
subject to the same restrictions.  Iran exports some 30 million cubic meters of natural gas
per day to Turkey, earning more than $3 billion annually, Owji
said. He said in September that Iran plans to start supplying 25
million cubic meters of gas per day to Iraq within a year, via a
pipeline being built.  Iran has also pushed ahead with plans to deliver gas to
 Pakistan . Last month, the two countries started work on the
cross-border leg of a $1.3 billion  gas pipeline  that will
deliver 21.5 million cubic meters of gas a day to Pakistan for
25 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  