-- Iran Nuclear Stalemate Sends Powers to Ponder Consequences
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-04-07T22:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/iran-nuclear-stalemate-sends-powers-to-ponder-new-consequences.html
The failure of  Iran  and the world
powers to reach an interim deal over the Islamic nation’s
nuclear work may increase pressure for additional sanctions and
force diplomats to consider alternatives to end the dispute.  Two days of talks in Almaty, Kazakhstan, left the sides
“far apart in substance,” European Union foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton  said on behalf of the U.S., Britain,  France ,
 China ,  Russia  and  Germany . Diplomats didn’t announce plans for
new talks on  Iran’s nuclear program , which the U.S. and its
allies suspect is designed to produce weapons.  “It was necessary for the Iranians to come and demonstrate
that they would move,”  Dennis Ross , President  Barack Obama ’s
former adviser on Iran, said in an e-mail. “They haven’t. There
should be a consequence and it is certainly time to reassess
whether the step-by-step approach can ever yield anything.”  While diplomats uniformly commended the tone and detail of
the April 5 and 6 negotiating round, the goodwill couldn’t
compensate for the distrust between them that has built over 10
years of stalemate. Iran wants a clear pledge that its right to
enrich uranium, a material that can be used to build nuclear
bombs, won’t be compromised if it suspends some production.  Western powers won’t budge on recognizing any rights until
Iran has taken confidence-building steps, such as halting
enrichment.  Door Open  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry , speaking yesterday in
Istanbul, said “the door is still open” for nuclear talks,
while adding, “This is not an endless process.”  Iran will announce a new nuclear achievement tomorrow, on
its annual National Nuclear Technology Day, the state-run Fars
news agency said, without elaborating.  “Both sides have backed themselves into rhetorical corners
about ‘rights’ and ‘obligations’ and neither side is capable of
offering the concessions that the other says it needs,” said
U.S. Naval Academy Professor John Limbert, a former American
diplomat who served in Iran, in an e-mail. “This singular focus
on the nuclear issue seems to bring continued stalemate on a
problem that, for the moment, may be politically too hard.”  The U.S. and  Israel  have said they will not tolerate a
nuclear Iran and haven’t ruled out military strikes to prevent
the government in Tehran from producing atomic weapons. Iran,
with the world’s fourth-largest proven oil reserves, insists its
atomic work is peaceful and has vowed to disrupt regional crude
shipments if attacked.  ‘Fundamental Clash’  After reaching a nine-month high of $119 a barrel in
February on concern over a conflict with Iran,  Brent crude  has
declined as the tensions eased. It closed April 5 at $104.12,
the lowest since July.  “There are enormous differences between Iran and the U.S.
on the future of the  Middle East ,” said Ray Takeyh, a former
senior adviser on Iran at the State Department who is now at the
 Council on Foreign Relations . “This is not a technical
disagreement requiring clever formulas, but a fundamental clash
of ideological and practical interests.”  While the negotiations in Almaty involved the most free-
flowing exchanges on specific proposals seen in the last 10
years, the failure to agree will result in more international
pressure, said a senior U.S. official who declined to be
identified because of the talks’ sensitivity. Cultural
differences and the lack of trust between the U.S. and Iran made
discussing details challenging, with Iran only offering minimal
steps and expecting too much in return, the official said.  Enrichment Dispute  Iran’s chief negotiator, Saeed Jalili, repeatedly said
recognition of Iran’s right to enrich uranium for peaceful use
under the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty would move the talks
forward. The  United Nations Security Council  has ordered the
country to suspend production of the heavy metal, which can be
used to generate nuclear power or, at higher purity, to make an
atomic bomb.  “We are not opposed to taking a step but we must know upon
what foundations it rests,” Jalili said when asked whether Iran
would consider suspending enrichment at higher levels. “When we
talk about building trust this is not an abstract issue.”  The stalemate over enrichment has tested the unity of the
six powers, which include all five permanent members of the UN
Security Council plus Germany. Russia, which built Iran’s only
working nuclear power plant and has supported Iran’s Syrian
ally, President Bashar al-Assad, amid a popular uprising, has
split with its European and U.S. negotiating partners on the
subject. China didn’t disclose its stance.  ‘Unjust’ West  “We believe that some aspects of the Western side are
unjust and not in accordance with international legal norms,”
Russia’s top negotiator Sergei Ryabkov said. “The model of a
final resolution must be recognition of all Iranian rights
included in the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, including the
right for enrichment.”  The negotiations were “the most tense and intensive” yet
and “there should be no pause in talks,” Ryabkov said.  After the previous round of discussions in Almaty, six
weeks ago, officials spoke optimistically about the prospect of
a breakthrough. This time, the EU’s Ashton said that while last
week’s talks got down to greater detail than before, “what
matters at the end is substance.”  She and Jalili have said they would talk with each other
about a possible new round of negotiations after all the
delegations have consulted with leaders in their capitals.  “The  United States  is far away from imposing the kind of
massive pressure that could collapse the Iranian economy,”
according to analyst  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the
Foundation for Defense of Democracies in  Washington , who has
been advising U.S. lawmakers on ways to tighten financial
sanctions on Iran.  Absent Breakthrough  “In the absence of a diplomatic breakthrough or an
internal development that shakes the regime, it is increasingly
looking like Iran will either get the bomb or President Obama
will order military strikes to forestall that possibility,”
Dubowitz said.  Thomas Pickering, former U.S. undersecretary of state, said
his experience in negotiating with Iran suggests that it’s
premature to declare diplomacy dead.  “Expecting breakthroughs is over-optimistic,” Pickering
said in an interview. “These talks will be long and hard. But
the progress is there,” with “deeper engagement” in Almaty
over a possible confidence-building deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Almaty,  Kazakhstan , at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Almaty, Kazakhstan, at   ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  