-- Iran Nuclear Talks Fail With No Resumption Date Given
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-04-07T14:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/iran-nuclear-talks-fail-with-no-resumption-date-given.html
Iran and world powers failed to
reach an accord on the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program in
talks that ended last night, dragging out a decade-long dispute
that threatens to escalate with new sanctions or military
threats against Iran.  “We’ve talked in greater detail than ever before,” with a
“real back and forward between us,” though the two sides
“remain far apart in substance,” European Union foreign policy
chief  Catherine Ashton  told reporters after two days of
negotiations in Almaty, Kazakhstan.  Ashton said diplomats from the six powers -- the U.S.,
Britain,  France ,  Germany ,  China  and  Russia  -- will go back to
their capitals to consult on next steps, though they didn’t set
a date and place for the next round of talks.  Iranian chief negotiator Saeed Jalili said the talks were
“substantive, intensive and comprehensive,” and said the other
countries “weren’t ready” to accept Iran’s proposal. While
Western officials said it is for Iran to make the first
concessions, Jalili said the other side must prove its sincerity
and show what Iran stands to gain at the end of the process.  Failure to advance talks will add to pressure on Iran,
which is already subject to dozens of sanctions to punish its
nuclear program, including curbs on financial transactions and
crude oil exports that are its main source of revenue.  Ticking Clock  “There was somewhat of a gap that remains, obviously,”
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said in Istanbul today.
“This is not an endless process, this is not something where
you can play with the clock. You can’t just delay and talk for
the sake of talking.”  While the U.S. still aspires to a diplomatic solution,
Kerry said the choice “lies in the hands of the Iranians.”  The U.S. and  Israel  have threatened military strikes to
stop Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon if diplomacy doesn’t
work. Iran insists its atomic program is for energy and medical
research; world powers suspect Iran of seeking a covert nuclear
weapons capability.  No Breakthrough  After the last round of talks in Almaty six weeks ago,
officials on both sides had expressed optimism they might be
nearing a breakthrough, with Jalili calling the last talks “a
turning point.”  This time, Ashton said that while the talks went into
greater detail than ever before, “what matters at the end is
substance.  ‘‘These are not talks for the sake of it. These are talks
with a purpose,’’ she said, adding that the six powers will
continue negotiations for as long as they are useful.  Russia’s deputy foreign minister, Sergei Ryabkov, called
this round the ‘‘most tense and intensive’’ talks in the last
two to three years, though ‘‘we weren’t able to reach mutual
understanding on the essential questions.’’  ‘‘We believe that there should be no pause in talks,’’ he
said, adding it is critical for both sides to take their
proposals back to their capitals and ‘‘look where and whether
there need to be corrections.’’  No Breakdown  In an interview at the sidelines of the talks, Ali Vaez,
senior Iran analyst from the Washington-based  International
Crisis Group , said the latest round represented ‘‘neither a
breakdown, nor a breakthrough,’’ words echoed by a U.S.
negotiator who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Progress on an interim proposal by the six powers for Iran
to suspend its 20 percent enrichment of uranium in return for
limited relief from sanctions was scuttled by Iran’s insistence
on being assured that what it sees as its right to peaceful
enrichment of uranium eventually will be recognized.  Ryabkov said in an interview last night that elements of
the six nations’ offer, which hasn’t been made public, include
lifting curbs on Iran’s ability to trade in gold and precious
metals, along with easing limits on its petrochemical exports.  Iran  is saying that ‘‘unless we know the destination, we’re
not going to take the first step,” Vaez said. Iran’s leaders
may have “underestimated the other side’s resolve in increasing
the pressure, tightening the screws.”  Details Discussed  The U.S. official said yesterday’s conversations involved more
free-flowing exchange on specifics than in the last 10 years of
negotiations, though the six powers were disappointed not to get
a more concrete response from Iran. The official said Iran is
only offering minimal steps and expecting too much in return.  Jalili repeatedly said recognition of Iran’s right to
enrich uranium for peaceful use under the nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty would move the talks forward.  There are differences among the six powers over how to
respond to that demand. Ryabkov reiterated Russia’s position
that Iran does have the right to enrich uranium once broader
nuclear inspections are in place, while the U.S. and EU have so
far declined to agree.  The UN Security Council has ordered the country to suspend
production of the heavy metal, which can be used to generate
nuclear power or, at higher purity, to fuel an atomic bomb.  Asked whether Iran would consider suspending enrichment at
20 percent levels, Jalili said, “We are not opposed to taking a
step but we must know upon what foundations it rests,” adding
that, “when we talk about building trust this is not an
abstract issue.”  Iran has the world’s fourth-largest proven oil reserves and
has threatened to stop crude shipments through the  Strait of
Hormuz , a key trade route, if attacked. After reaching a nine-
month high of $119 a barrel in February on concern over a
conflict with Iran,  Brent crude  has declined as the tensions
eased. It closed April 5 at $104.12, the lowest since July.  The failure to reach an agreement was “foretold from the
start,” Israel’s Minister of International Relations, Yuval Steinitz, said. “Without a meaningful and concrete threat, that
also includes a brief, clear and definitive timetable,”  Iran’s
nuclear program  won’t be stopped, he said in a text message.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Almaty, Kazakhstan at 
Or  ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Tirone in Almaty,  Kazakhstan  at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  