-- Chelsea Beats Sunderland in Di Canio’s First Game; QPR-Wigan Tie
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-04-07T23:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/liverpool-draws-0-0-with-west-ham-in-premier-league-soccer-match.html
Chelsea won 2-1 to boost its chances
of playing Champions League soccer next season while handing
Paolo Di Canio a loss in his first game as Sunderland coach.  Also yesterday in  England ’s Premier League, Wigan got an
injury-time goal to tie 1-1 at 10-man Queens Park Rangers,
Tottenham drew 2-2 with Everton, Liverpool tied 0-0 at home
against West Ham and Newcastle beat Fulham 1-0.  Manchester United  leads with 77 points, 15 ahead of
 Manchester City  going into their meeting tonight. Chelsea moved
ahead of Tottenham on goal difference, with both on 58 points.
Then come Arsenal (56), Everton (52) and Liverpool (49).  Di Canio’s appointment to succeed  Martin O’Neill  prompted
protests because of a 2005 interview in which he described
himself as a “fascist, not a racist.” Last week the Italian
said he was not a supporter of fascism and was “not
political.” After yesterday’s game Di Canio declined to comment
on criticism he’s received.  “As a person you don’t change, but you become an adult,
you become a manager, now you have responsibility for many
others,” he told reporters. “If I have to answer every comment
it’s difficult. I would have to stay here all day.”  An own goal by Cesar Azpilicueta gave Sunderland the lead
just before halftime at  Stamford  Bridge in west  London .  Another own goal, by Sunderland’s Matthew Kilgallon, two
minutes after the break tied it and Chelsea got the winner from
Branislav Ivanovic in the 55th minute following a corner.  Relegation Zone  Sunderland is 17th in the 20-team standings with 31 points,
the same as Wigan, which is 18th. Last-place Reading has 23
points, with QPR on 24.  Di Canio said he’s not worried about relegation, with his
team one place out of the drop zone.  “When I decided to move to Sunderland, I knew what players
were here but we have to fight until the end of the season,” he
said. “I won’t say this was a bonus game but it was a test for
us to see what we can do. I am not happy we lost 2-1, but there
were positive things I can take from this.”  At Loftus Road,  Bobby Zamora  was red-carded for a high
challenge on Wigan’s Jordi Gomez in the 21st minute. After Wigan
initially took advantage of its numerical advantage, QPR
regained momentum, prompted by substitute Adel Taarabt.  Loic Remy gave QPR the lead with a first-time strike from
outside the penalty box in the 85th minute.  Late Goal  QPR’s Stephane Mbia then fouled an opponent just outside
the penalty area in the closing seconds and Shaun Maloney
chipped the resulting free kick into the top corner of the goal.  “I always thought we were going to get chances and then
Remy got that great finish,” QPR manager  Harry Redknapp  said.
“Then, with 10 seconds to go in the last minute of four minutes
of added time -- it couldn’t have been more cruel. No one’s more
sorry than Bobby but we’d have beaten them today with 11 men,
I’m sure. Even with 10 men we should have won the game.”  Emmanuel Adebayor gave Tottenham a first-minute lead at
White Hart Lane, turning in a cross from the left by Jan Vertonghen.  Phil Jagielka  leveled in the 15th minute, heading in
from a corner.  Everton took the lead in the 53rd minute, Kevin Mirallas
weaving his way through the home defense before slotting the
ball in. Spurs, who were without the injured Gareth Bale, made
it 2-2 after 87 minutes through Gylfi Sigurdsson, who tapped the
ball in after Adebayor’s shot rebounded to him off a post.  Everton almost got an injury-time winner as Victor
Anichebe’s close-range shot was saved by  Hugo Lloris .  Newcastle looked to be heading for a 0-0 home draw with
Fulham before Papiss Cisse scored in injury time.  Two days ago, Arsenal won 2-1 at West Brom and  Aston Villa 
had a 3-1 victory at Stoke. Southampton won 2-0 at Reading and
Norwich and Swansea drew 2-2.  To contact the reporter on for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  