-- Stocks, Commodities Rise; Yen Falls to Lowest Since ’09
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-04-08T20:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/japan-stock-futures-rise-as-yen-weakens-on-boj-u-s-futures-gain.html
U.S. stocks advanced on speculation
quarterly earnings would help equities rebound from their
biggest weekly decline of the year. The yen weakened to the
lowest since 2009 after the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s stimulus efforts.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.6 percent to
1,563.07 at 4 p.m. in  New York , reversing an earlier drop of 0.3
percent.  Japan ’s currency sank 1.8 percent to 99.34 per dollar,
while the Nikkei 225 Stock Average jumped to a 4 1/2-year high.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.2 percent. The S&P GSCI
gauge of 24 commodities jumped 0.6 percent as oil, copper and
wheat rose.  South Korea ’s won slid to the weakest level in eight
months.  Alcoa kicked off the U.S. first-quarter earnings season
after the close of regular trading. Income at  S&P 500  companies
probably fell 1.8 percent in the first three months of the year,
the first year-over-year drop since 2009, analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. Industrial production in  Germany 
rebounded in February, the  Economy Ministry  said today.  Today’s reversal “continued a pattern, which has shown for
quite some time now, which is any weakness is met with buying at
some point of the day,” James Gaul, a portfolio manager at
Boston Advisors LLC, which oversees about $2.5 billion in
assets, said in a telephone interview. “There are people who
are afraid of missing out on further rallies.”  Alcoa Earnings  Alcoa, the first Dow member to publish results each
quarter, jumped 1.8 percent to $8.39 in regular trading. After
the market close, the largest U.S. aluminum producer reported
first-quarter earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates as
demand from U.S. automakers increased. Sales declined to $5.83
billion from $6.01 billion, missing the $5.88 billion average of
11 estimates.  Alcoa (AA)  shares slid 1.2 percent as of 4:41 p.m. in
New York.  BioCryst Pharmaceuticals Inc. surged 13 percent today as
China expedited the approval of its anti-influenza drug
Peramivir. Lufkin Industries Inc., a maker of oil-well pumps,
jumped 38 percent as General Electric Co. agreed to buy the
company. Johnson & Johnson declined 1.1 percent after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. cut the stock’s rating.  The S&P 500 fell 1 percent last week, the biggest weekly
decline of the year, as U.S. payrolls had the smallest gain in
nine months in March while other reports showed manufacturing
and services industries expanded less than forecast. The index
climbed to an all-time high of 1,570.25 on April 2.  ‘Pretty Diverse’  “Earnings clearly are going to be the driver for a lot of
volatility in the next couple of weeks,” Omar Aguilar, the San
Francisco-based chief investment officer of equities at Charles
Schwab Investment Management said in a telephone interview. The
firm had $219.3 billion in assets under management as of Dec.
31. “The consensus is that we’re going to have a pretty diverse
and poor earnings season. I think we’ll probably see a lot of
surprises on the positive side, which is good.”  The S&P GSCI climbed for the first time in seven days.
Wheat jumped 1.9 percent after  China  said it purchased almost 1
million metric tons of U.S. grain. China bought the soft red
winter wheat last week, state-owned researcher Grain.gov.cn said
in an e-mailed report today, without saying where it got the
information.  West Texas Intermediate rose 0.7 percent after the biggest
weekly drop in six months as militants and government forces
clashed in  Nigeria  and talks between  Iran  and world powers
failed to make progress. Natural gas tumbled 1 percent,
reversing an earlier rally of as much as 1.3 percent, amid
forecasts of warmer weather in the eastern U.S. that would limit
demand for the heating fuel.  Gold futures declined for the fourth time in five sessions,
slipping 0.2 percent, as the dollar’s advance reduced the appeal
of the metal as an alternative investment. Copper rose the most
in more than two weeks as miners prepared to strike in  Chile ,
the world’s biggest producer.  Yen Declines  The yen weakened 1.8 percent to 99.34 per dollar. The
currency depreciated against all of its 16 major peers. BOJ
officials said last week they will boost monthly bond purchases
to 7.5 trillion yen ($80 billion), exceeding the 5.2 trillion
yen forecast by economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The yen has slumped 22 percent in the past six months, the
worst performance of 10 developed market currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  The cost of insuring against losses on  Portugal ’s sovereign
debt with credit-default swaps increased 31 basis points to 428,
the highest since Jan. 2. The PSI-20 Index of stocks fell 1.4
percent as Banco Espirito Santo SA and Banco Comercial Portugues
SA declined in Lisbon trading.  The country’s  Constitutional Court  blocked a plan to
suspend some payments to state workers and pensioners, leaving
the government needing to find more spending cuts to meet the
terms of the country’s international bailout.  The benchmark 10-year Treasury yield rose three basis
points to 1.74 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.1 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.6 percent and  Taiwan ’s Taiex
Index tumbled 2.4 percent, the most in 10 months, as China
reported more infections from a deadly bird influenza and
trading resumed after four-day weekend. South Korea’s Kospi sank
0.4 percent and the won slid 0.8 percent as the risk of conflict
with  North Korea  spurred capital outflows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  