-- Kerry Urges Turkey to Mend Israel Ties, Help Mideast Talks
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-04-07T17:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/kerry-to-urge-erdogan-to-complete-reconciliation-with-israel.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
urged Turkey to mend ties with  Israel  and help with a fresh push
to negotiate peace in the  Middle East .  Kerry is on the first leg of a nine-day tour starting in
the Middle East. The top U.S. diplomat discussed the Syrian
crisis, Israeli-Turkish relations and tested the waters with the
American ally for a possible revival of peace talks between
Israel and the Palestinians.  “No peace process is easy,” Kerry said at a joint news
conference today with Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu .
It takes “courage and determination” and Turkey has a “very
central role” to play in the region, Kerry said, giving no
details on any new initiative being discussed.  Kerry saw Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  before flying
to Israel to press for progress in the stalled Mideast peace
process. He arrived in Ramallah in the  West Bank  to visit
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  and will hold
discussions in  Jerusalem  with Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  on April 9.  President  Barack Obama  has charged Kerry with the task of
resurrecting a dialogue between the Palestinians and Israel.
Peace talks fell apart in September 2010 after Netanyahu didn’t
extend a 10-month building freeze in the West Bank, and Abbas
said he won’t restart negotiations until construction is halted.  Asked about Turkey’s role in peace talks, Israel’s chief
negotiator with the Palestinians, Tzipi Livni said on public
radio “the idea is interesting, but it could take time,”
Agence-France Presse reported.  Peace Process  The arrival of leaders from Jordan, Turkey and Qatar to
Washington in coming weeks, coupled with Kerry’s three visits to
the region in less than a month, have raised expectations that
the U.S. may return to shuttle diplomacy and try to revive the
 peace process .  Kerry’s hastily arranged trip to Turkey comes after Obama
brokered a thaw with Israel during a visit to the region last
month, in an effort speed up a reconciliation between the two
U.S. allies following a three-year spat. Netanyahu phoned
Erdogan March 22 and apologized for the 2010 raid on a ship
carrying aid to the  Gaza strip  that killed nine Turks.  While both countries need to take steps to normalize
relations, including the exchange of ambassadors and agreeing on
how much Israel will compensate Turkey, Kerry stressed he isn’t
setting deadlines.  On Track  “It is not for the U.S. to be setting conditions or
terms” on what the schedule should be, Kerry said. “We would
like to see this relationship get back on track in its full
measure.”  Davutoglu said conditions for normalized relations include
financial reparation and the lifting of an Israeli embargo on
supplies to Gaza.  “All of the embargoes should be eliminated once and for
all,” he said via an interpreter.  Also on the agenda was the two-year war in Syria that has
killed more than 70,000 people and threatens to engulf the
region.  Turkey , which shares a border with the country, has been
flooded by more than 180,000 refugees fleeing a conflict that
has pitted Syrian President Bashar al-Assad against opposition
forces, including a growing number of jihadists, who are trying
to oust him.  The U.S. has urged Turkey as well as Syria’s other
neighbors, Jordan and Lebanon, not to close their borders. Kerry
will repeat those calls to Erdogan amid frustration among the
U.S.’s Arab allies about the lack of new initiatives and
resources to prevent the chaos in Syria from spilling over.  Syria Role  The White House has made clear it doesn’t want an expanded
role in Syria, while some of its European allies have taken a
more active approach in helping the Syrian rebels. The U.K. and
 France  are pushing their European Union partners to lift an arms
embargo on Syria in order to supply anti-tank and anti-aircraft
weapons to the rebels.  Kerry is now in the position of defending a stance he
didn’t share while he was head of the Senate’s Foreign Relations
Committee. Before becoming secretary of state, Kerry made the
case for establishing humanitarian corridors in Syria, which
would require military enforcement.  Asked about the creation of buffer zones, Kerry said he
wasn’t going to speculate on military strategy.  He said he had a “very precise” discussion with his
Turkish counterpart over how to bring about about a political
transition. Both diplomats agreed Assad “must go.”  Over the next weeks, “there will be greater clarity,”
Kerry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Washington  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  