-- Korean ADRs Sink to 7-Month Low on Tension as CDS Surge
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n ,   S e y o o n   K i m   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-08T21:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/korean-stocks-in-u-s-slump-most-since-june-on-tension.html
South Korean  shares  in the U.S. fell
to the lowest level since September, the won tumbled and credit
risk surged as the government said  North Korea  may be ready to
conduct a nuclear test or missile launch as early as this week.  The  Bank of New York Mellon Korea ADR Index , which tracks
American depositary receipts of South Korean companies in New
York, lost 0.5 percent to 170.93, the lowest close since Sept.
6. ADRs of KB Financial Group Inc. dropped to an eight-month
low, while LG Display Co. slid 1.1 percent. The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  lost
0.4 percent in Seoul, adding to last week’s 3.9 percent slump,
while the won weakened 0.7 percent versus the dollar. Credit-
default swaps also jumped to the highest level since September.  Foreign funds sold a net $1.2 billion of Kospi equities
last week as tensions with the North escalated, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. North  Korea  is ready to conduct a fourth
underground atomic weapon test at its Punggye-ri site, after
carrying out its third Feb. 12, according to South Korean
Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok. National security chief
Kim Jang Soo said yesterday that the North may stage a
provocation including a ballistic missile test around April 10.  “We’ve moved beyond rhetoric,” said  Lawrence Creatura , a
Rochester, New York-based fund manager at Federated Investors
Inc., which oversees about $380 billion. “The geopolitical
uncertainty of Korea is a concern because it’s a slightly
different pattern now. At this stage, it’s more of a concern
than prior events on the peninsula.”  The Kospi 200  Volatility Index , a measure of the cost to
protect against equity losses, slid 1.2 percent today after
surging 11 percent April 5. International investors unloaded
$3.1 billion of South Korean shares this year, the most among 10
markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Nuclear Strikes  North Korea will probably carry out a small military attack
in the region so the country’s leader, Kim Jong Un, can brandish
his power, the chairman of the U.S. House intelligence panel
said today.  “I do think there will be some small skirmish before this
is over,” Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican,
said in an interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in  New York .  North Korea’s threats to carry out pre-emptive nuclear
strikes against the U.S. and South Korea have prompted calls for
dialogue. Chinese President Xi Jinping said yesterday that no
country should be allowed to instigate regional chaos and the
U.S. postponed a missile test to avoid making the situation
worse. U.S. Ambassador to  China   Gary Locke  said “China and the
 United States  and the world community are very concerned about
the provocative acts and statements” made by North Korea.  Construction activity observed at the North Korea Yongbyon
nuclear site is “very troubling” as it violates United Nations
Security Council resolutions, UN nuclear chief Yukiya Amano told
journalists today in  Washington .  Surging Swaps  Five-year swaps used to protect against a default by  South
Korea  rose 3.8 basis points, or 0.038 percentage point, to 87.1
basis points, the highest level since Sept. 12 based on New York
prices compiled by Bloomberg. South Korea’s five-year credit
default swaps have surged 87 percent over the past
month, the third-biggest jump by percentage after Sweden and
 Norway  among countries tracked by Bloomberg.  The Kospi fell for a sixth day today, closing at the lowest
level since Nov. 28. The won depreciated to the lowest level
since July against the dollar.  “Geopolitical risk from the North Korean threat is likely
to weigh on the South Korean won for an extended period of
time,” said Suh Dae Il, an analyst at KDB Daewoo Securities Co.
in  Seoul .  LG Display, the world’s second-biggest maker of flat
panels, retreated to $13.33 in New York. KB Financial slipped
0.4 percent to $31.47, the lowest closing level since August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  