-- Kuroda Twist Seen as BOJ’s Duration Still Lags Fed: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a ,   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-04-08T04:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/kuroda-twist-seen-as-boj-s-duration-still-lags-fed-japan-credit.html
Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda would need to both buy more  longer bonds  and cut shorter
notes should the authority decide to quickly bring the maturity
of its holdings in line with the Federal Reserve.  The BOJ’s plan to double the monetary base through debt
purchases will only lengthen the average duration of its
government bond holdings to 4 years by the end of this year from
3.5 years previously, according to calculations by Tokyo-based
Japan Macro Advisors. That’s way below the Fed’s duration of
about nine years.  “There’s room to flatten out the yield curve even more,”
said  Takuji Okubo , the managing director and chief economist in
Tokyo at Japan Macro Advisors, who has previously worked at
banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “Something will happen
in the next 12 months that will make the Bank of Japan ease the
economy further. The answer has to be a twist operation.”  Kuroda said last week he’s ready to do more after his board
decided to double monthly bond purchases and buy longer-maturity
debt, in the nation’s biggest round of quantitative easing. A
complete reversal of his predecessor’s focus on buying shorter
notes would slash costs of home buying and other longer
investments, while eroding profit margins at banks and robbing
them of an incentive to lend.  The 10-year  bond  yield closed at 0.46 percent on April 5,
when it touched 0.315 percent, the lowest on record. The 30-year
yield also dropped to a record low 0.925 percent, narrowing its
 spread  over five-year notes to 104 basis points, or 1.04
percentage points, the least since December 2008.  Fed Policy  The equivalent  yield gap  for U.S. Treasuries was 218 basis
points, compared to 215 basis points on Sept. 21, 2011, when the
Fed announced Operation Twist to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs. After the twist program ended, it began a third
round of quantitative easing, purchasing $85 billion of Treasury
and mortgage debt every month.  The BOJ said last week it will buy 7.5 trillion yen ($76
billion) of bonds a month, a shift that Kuroda said will mean
the bank is buying the equivalent of 70 percent of debt issued.
That will extend the average maturity of the securities it
purchases to seven years from about three years, according to
the central bank.  Kuroda has said it’s questionable whether buying more
short-term debt is an effective easing measure. The BOJ needs to
flatten the so-called yield curve by buying longer-maturity
assets, he said at a  news conference  on March 21.  Average Duration  The average duration of Japanese government bonds and bills
held by the BOJ decreased to 2.6 years as of February from 3.2
years a year earlier, as the central bank boosted purchases of
notes maturing in one year to three years, according to
calculations by Japan Macro Advisors. Duration is an estimate of
how much the price of a bond will change when interest rates
rise or fall. Bonds with longer maturities typically have
greater duration than shorter-term debt.  The central bank may increase buying of debt maturing in 10
years or more to 1.4 trillion yen a month from the planned 800
billion yen announced last week, according to SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc.  “The BOJ doesn’t seem all that aggressive when you compare
the duration of its bond holdings with that of the Fed,” said
Makoto Noji, a Tokyo-based currency strategist at the unit of
Japan’s second-biggest financial group by market value.
“There’s plenty of room for yields on longer bonds to fall as
the BOJ buys more.”  Bridgestone, Sojitz  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Bridgestone Corp. and
Sojitz Corp. hired banks for bond offerings.  Bridgestone, a Tokyo-based tiremaker, hired Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. and SMBC Nikko Securities for a sale of
three-year and five-year notes, according to a statement from
Daiwa. Sojitz, a trading company based in  Tokyo , hired
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Daiwa and Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. for an offering of four-year debt this
month, according to Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors 1 percent
this year, compared with a 3.3 percent return on the nation’s
sovereign debt, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Company notes worldwide have gained 1.4 percent.  The yen fell to 98.85 per dollar today, the weakest since
June 2009. It has plunged 21 percent in the past six months, the
worst performance among the 10 developed market currencies
tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  Monetary Target  The BOJ set a two-year horizon for its 2 percent inflation
goal last week and said it was shifting its attention from the
benchmark interest rate to the monetary base -- cash in
circulation and the money that financial institutions have on
deposit at the central bank. It predicts the measure will grow
to 270 trillion yen by the end of 2014.  The central bank “temporarily suspended” its self-imposed
bank-note rule to keep the value of its bond holdings below the
amount of cash in circulation. Former Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
warned of a surge in interest rates and inflation if there’s a
perception the BOJ is financing government deficits, a
phenomenon known as monetization.  “The central bank may be intervening too much in the
government bond market,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Tokyo and a former BOJ
official. “Liquidity in the market is more important for the
BOJ than lowering nominal yields.”  Moody’s View  Confidence in JGBs could “eventually waver” if a
sustainable fiscal structure is not put into place, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report dated April 4. There are
longer term risks in the BOJ’s new policy, the company said.  The 60-day  historical volatility  for prices on Japanese
bonds maturing in 10 or more years surged to 7.59 percent, the
highest since November 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. About a month after the 10-year yield reached the
then-record low of 0.43 percent on June 11 that year, it jumped
to 1.4 percent. That was the only year from 1995 to 2012 that
Japan’s bonds had an annual  loss .  “The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s intention is to make the long
interest rates so low that the banks give up on holding them,”
Japan Macro Advisors’ Okubo said in an interview on April 5.
“They want the banks to sell long-dated bonds, so that when
inflation happens and the long bonds collapse, banks won’t be
hit by valuation losses. The Bank of Japan will take the hit.”  Domestic investors owned  91 percent  of Japanese government
bonds at the end December, with banks and other financial
institutions holding a third of the total, according to data
compiled by the BOJ. Japanese banks have been relying on returns
from JGBs for profit as loan earnings decline.  “The BOJ’s stimulus expansion has tipped the demand-supply
dynamics of the super-long debt market,” said  Takafumi Yamawaki , Tokyo-based chief rates strategist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. “There will be severe tightness in the longer-term debt
supply and investors will be too afraid to sell as the yields
can drop sharply any time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  