-- Nigerian Troops Seek Gunmen Who Killed 15 Police in Delta
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   T o n y   T a m u n o
-- 2013-04-08T13:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/nigeria-s-mend-says-it-killed-15-security-personnel-in-gunfight.html
Nigerian troops are hunting for
militants who said they killed at least 15 policemen in the oil-
rich Niger River delta, a military official said.  “The security forces are working to ensure the
perpetrators” are tracked down, Ibrahim Attahiru, an army
spokesman in Abuja, the capital, said today by phone.  The attack on April 6 was claimed by the Movement for the
Emancipation of the  Niger Delta , the main rebel group in the the
area. Two insurgents also died in the gunfight, which lasted for
more than 40 minutes at a river in the Azuzama area in Southern
Ijaw local government region, MEND spokesman  Jomo Gbomo  said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon,  California ,  Total
SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. that pump most of the country’s oil.
Nigeria depends on crude exports for more than 95 percent of
foreign income and 80 percent of government revenue, according
to the Petroleum Ministry.  The attack comes after MEND said on April 3 it would resume
attacks in Africa’s largest oil producing-country after their
suspected leader,  Henry Okah , was sentenced to 24 years in
prison in South Africa on terrorism charges. Okah denies being a
leader of the group.  ‘False Security’  “All  oil companies  and the public are advised to ignore
the false sense of security,” portrayed by the government,
Gbomo said yesterday. “We remain resolute in our resumption of
hostilities.”  Bonny Light crude , the nation’s main export grade, was
little changed today, trading at $107.94 per barrel as of 1:20
p.m. in  London , after falling 4.9 percent last week, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Most former MEND militants remain committed to the
government’s amnesty program,” Roddy Barclay, an analyst at
Control Risks, a London-based business consulting group, said
today in an e-mailed report. Though some of them have turned to
violent or organized crime, such as oil theft, they lack
leadership and weapons, Barclay said. “As such, a return to
regional militancy remains unlikely in the medium term.”  Red Alert  The Nigerian Joint Task Force is on “red alert” in the
region following the threat, Defense Ministry spokesman Chris Olukolade said yesterday in a text message in response to
questions. “Maritime and air assets have also been mobilized
and patrols intensified both on land and waterways.”  The rebel group will carry out “a plague of attacks”
until the Nigerian government apologizes and shows willingness
to start talks, Gbomo said last week.  A South African court sentenced Okah to 24 years in jail
after he was found guilty of 13 counts of terrorism, including a
bombing that killed 12 people in Abuja on Oct. 1, 2010. MEND
claimed the attack. While Okah denies he leads the group, he has
said he commands the support of many armed factions in Nigeria’s
oil region. Okah had been living in  South Africa .  Attacks including kidnappings and bombing of oil
installations by groups including MEND cut more than 28 percent
of Nigeria’s oil output between 2006 and 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The violence declined after thousands of
fighters accepted a government amnesty offer in 2009 and
disarmed.  Oil companies “should use local information networks to
determine any immediate militant threats,” said Barclay. They
should engage with communities “to avert project specific
disputes capable of prompting direst action” as the threat of
localized militancy persists “amid tense community relations
and hostility towards foreign oil companies,” he said.  The West African nation was the seventh-biggest producer in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries last month,
with output at about 1.8 million barrels a day, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Tamuno in  Port Harcourt  at 
 mmbonye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  