-- To Rebuild Haiti, Restoring Democracy is a Must
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-07T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/to-rebuild-haiti-restoring-democracy-is-a-must.html
After a devastating earthquake,
hurricanes and an imported cholera epidemic, impoverished  Haiti 
seems an unlikely candidate for tough love. But that may be the
best way to resolve a political impasse blocking the country’s
recovery.  At a recent  meeting  of the United Nations Security Council,
important givers, including  Canada , the U.K. and the U.S.,
expressed dismay over the political paralysis that is feeding an
 increase  in civil unrest and major crime. On the same day, major
donors declined Haiti’s invitation to discuss more aid, saying
the government first needed a plan for restoring democracy.  They’re right. For more than a year, Haiti has been
governed outside its constitution. Elected officials’ terms have
expired, and with no electoral commission  to organize new
balloting, President Michel Martelly has handpicked 129 of 140
mayors. A third of the Senate is empty. If there are no
elections this year, and terms expire for another third, the
Senate will cease to function.  The drift is toward authoritarianism, of which Haiti has
already suffered plenty. Only in 2011, with Martelly’s
ascension, has power ever passed democratically between opposing
political factions.  Organizing the overdue elections, unfortunately, has not
proved simple. After a long, inconclusive fight over forming a
permanent electoral council, the executive, judicial and
legislative branches agreed on Christmas Eve to create a
temporary one to organize local and Senate elections. In mid-
March, Parliament finally named its three representatives, but
the executive and the judiciary have yet to announce theirs.  Martelly may prefer to let the Senate collapse and to leave
local government in the hands of his appointees. Yet ruling in
this way won’t resolve the qualms of foreign donors who are
essential to Haiti’s recovery. To resettle the remaining 347,000
Haitians left homeless by the January 2010 earthquake, and to
create decent housing for those in transitional accommodations,
Martelly has to keep foreign aid flowing.  Moreover, Haiti needs the UN’s help in fighting a cholera
epidemic that has killed 8,000 people and is  link ed to a
sanitation lapse at a U.N. Stabilization Mission camp. Although
the U.N. refuses to accept responsibility, it is seeking donors
for a 10-year, $2.2 billion cholera eradication  program  based on
vaccinations and improved water and sanitation systems.  Those benefactors will insist on a restoration of democracy
because they know the country’s long-term future depends less on
their money than on investors who can create work for the two-
thirds of the population who have no formal job.  Entrepreneurs won’t put serious money  into Haiti without
faith that the government is legitimate, the rule of law is
paramount, and Parliament is capable of passing laws to improve
the business climate. Elections alone won’t save Haiti. But the
failure to hold them may doom the country to a backward slide.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 