-- North Korea Needs to Stop ‘Bellicose’ Rhetoric: Pfeiffer
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-04-07T13:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/obama-adviser-tells-north-korea-to-stop-bellicose-rhetoric.html
White House senior adviser  Dan Pfeiffer  urged North Korea to end its “bellicose rhetoric” and
“provocative actions.”  He stopped short of describing what response, if any, the
U.S. would take if the regime launched a strike.  “We’ve seen the reports about North Korea moving missiles
in. We wouldn’t be surprised if they did a test,” Pfeiffer said
today on ABC’s “This Week” program. “This is absolutely a
situation of concern.”  He declined to talk about “hypotheticals” and what the
U.S. response would be to a missile launch. “North Korea needs
to stop its actions,” Pfeiffer said.  North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un’s regime warned last week
that “the moment of explosion is approaching soon” and said
it’s poised to conduct a “smaller, lighter and diversified
nuclear strike.”  Kim’s regime has moved a missile to its eastern coast
rocket launch site, possibly for test-firing, according to  South
Korea ’s defense minister. North Korea was seen loading two mid-
range missiles onto mobile launchers and hiding them in a
facility near the east coast, Yonhap reported April 5, citing
unidentified South Korean military sources. North Korea in the
past has sought to mask its intentions and deceive surveillance
tools by steps such as displaying dummy missiles and covering
test sites.  North Korea on April 5 asked  Russia  and other countries to
consider evacuating their diplomats from the capital as tensions
mount with South Korea, warning that embassies can’t be
protected in the event of a conflict.  Major War  “I could see a major war happening,” if North Korea
continues ratcheting up the tension in the region,  Senator
Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, said on NBC’s
“Meet the Press” today.  The U.S. has postponed a test of a Minuteman III
intercontinental missile from Vandenberg Air Force Base in
 California  to avoid exacerbating the situation, according to a
Defense Department official who asked not to be identified.
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel made the decision to re-schedule
the test, which will probably be next month, the official said.  Asked on “Fox News Sunday” if postponing the missile test
makes it look like the U.S. is caving in to North Korea,
Pfeiffer said “absolutely not.”  “The onus is on North Korea to take a step back,”
Pfeiffer said on Fox. “‘They are the source of the problem.’’  If  North Korea  doesn’t step back, ‘‘they will continue to
further isolate themselves in the world,’’ Pfeiffer told Fox.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  