-- Hong Kong Looks to Other Contracts for After Hours Trade
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-04-07T23:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/hong-kong-looks-to-other-contracts-for-after-hours-trade.html
Hong Kong  Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.,
which today starts after hours trading in equity futures, will
later offer trading on currency, interest-rate and commodity
futures, said bourse executive Calvin Tai.  The world’s largest exchange company by market value will
open a trading session from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. for standard
contracts on the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  and the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index. This will create the infrastructure to later
offer currency, interest-rate and commodity futures, Tai, co-
head of equities, fixed income and currency, said in a telephone
interview April 5.  The extra session will allow existing investors to hedge
and adjust positions when news breaks in European hours, Tai
said. Hong Kong owns the London Metal Exchange. The Shanghai
Futures Exchange also plans to add after hours trading in a bid
to become a more global marketplace, an official at the bourse
said March 13.  “In the longer term, we believe we can appeal and make it
more readily available to European and U.S. investors who are
not currently trading,” Tai said. “This is new for Hong Kong,
but not for the industry.”  Global exchange operators including  CME Group Inc. (CME) , ASX
Ltd., NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Borse AG and Japan Exchange Group
Inc. offer after hours futures trading on their derivatives
platforms, the Hong Kong exchange said in its initial
consultation paper in May 2011.  Tai said the Hong Kong exchange operator plans to expand
after hours futures trading to mini contracts on the city’s two
main indexes by the end of the year if the program is
successful. There is no timeline to add futures on other asset
classes, he said.  Changes Afoot  Local brokers are concerned that changes to Hong Kong’s
market structure, with longer trading hours and the
reinstatement of a closing auction, will mean they can’t
compete.  Representatives from the Hong Kong Securities & Futures
Professionals Association, the Hong Kong Securities
Professionals Association and the Hong Kong Securities & Futures
Employees Union spoke in opposition to after-hours futures
trading at a Hong Kong Legislative Council financial affairs
meeting Jan. 28.  “We are not in the business of guaranteeing that everyone
can succeed and compete,” Charles Li, chief executive of Hong
Kong Exchanges, told  Bloomberg News  in an interview Feb. 27.
“What we will do is make sure the rules are fair, the rules are
equal. To the extent there is a segment of the market that will
be affected adversely by certain things, we are trying to see
whether we can mitigate that.”  Local Protests  The city’s brokers protested after the exchange shortened
its lunch break and promised to reinstate a closing auction for
trading. Hong Kong Exchanges said shortening the midday break to
one hour was necessary to align trading hours with China and is
pressing for a closing auction to bring trading in line with
international standards. The bourse previously had a two-hour
break for lunch, the longest of any developed market.  Of the 571 Hong Kong stock-exchange participants, the
biggest 14 accounted for 59 percent of the market in February
and the largest 65 were responsible for 90 percent, according to
statistics from the bourse’s  website .  Tai said some local futures brokers already use a partner
to trade futures for other markets and that this is a viable
solution for those the do not build their own platforms.  “Brokers need to explore and find a suitable business
partner to support this,” he said. “At the end of the day, how
much business they can get off the night trading varies from one
broker to the other, so they still have to decide whether to
offer it.”  LME Takeover  Hong Kong Exchanges completed its $2.2 billion takeover of
the London Metal Exchange in December as it seeks to broaden its
business with its first overseas acquisition. The bourse plans
to add commodities trading and clearing of LME products during
Asian hours over the next three years, introduce clearing for
over-the-counter commodity derivatives and expand mainland
 China ’s participation in the exchange.  Hong Kong Exchanges agreed on June 28 to set up a joint
venture to develop index-linked and equity derivative products
with its mainland Chinese counterparts.  While Tai said Hong Kong Exchanges is working with mainland
exchanges, the Shanghai after-hours-futures plan is a separate
initiative.  The Shanghai Futures Exchange would explore “win-win”
cooperation opportunities with Hong Kong Exchanges, Chairman
Yang Maijun said in an interview March 8. China should
accelerate opening commodities futures to overseas investors and
set detailed regulations to allow local firms to hedge on
overseas markets, Yang, a delegate of the National People’s
Congress, said in proposals to the nation’s top legislature.  Shanghai Futures Exchange trades copper, aluminum, zinc,
lead, natural rubber,  fuel oil , steel, gold and silver futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  