-- Orphan Drug Prices Under Siege in Austerity-Minded Europe
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-04-07T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/orphan-drug-prices-under-siege-in-austerity-minded-europe.html
Treatments for rare diseases are hot
properties for drugmakers, who covet the medicines for their
exclusive markets, tax breaks and through-the-roof prices. Now
that’s changing.  This year, the Netherlands demanded cuts in the prices of
enzyme-replacement therapies including  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Myozyme, which
costs 700,000 euros ($909,000). Ireland won a “significant”
reduction in the cost of  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) ’s Kalydeco
for cystic fibrosis, and the U.K. rejected a recommendation to
expand the use of  Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALXN) ’s drug Soliris,
which is prescribed for two blood disorders.  As more medicines win approval to treat diseases that
affect no more than 5 in 10,000 people, austerity-conscious
governments in Europe are applying the same pressure to so-
called orphan drugs that they do to widely prescribed medicines
for  heart disease  and diabetes. That’s putting the brakes on an
$86 billion sector of the pharmaceutical industry that’s been
expanding twice as fast as the market as a whole.  “The price of orphan medicinal products is under much more
debate,” said Yann Le Cam, the chief executive officer of
 Eurordis , a Paris-based group that represents patients with rare
diseases. “We have seen countries which were providing good
access to orphan medicinal products now questioning the
continuation of reimbursement.”  The U.S. may be next to join the orphan drug price-cutting
push as government and private insurers search for savings, said
Mary Dunkle, vice president of communications for the National
Organization for Rare Disorders, a patient-advocacy group based
in Danbury,  Connecticut .  Expanding Sales  “It’s a growing area of concern,” Dunkle said in a
telephone interview. “The word ‘sustainability’ is something
that we hear quite a bit now.”  The size and scope of price cuts, while closely guarded,
are considered significant in several countries. Global orphan
drug sales increased at almost 10 percent a year between 2005
and 2011 to $86 billion, compared with 4.8 percent for the top
40 companies which had $583 billion in sales in 2011, according
to  Datamonitor Plc , a London-based market researcher. That
advantage may narrow, as sales of drugs for rare diseases will
probably expand at 0.7 percent a year between 2011 and 2017,
compared with 0.6 percent growth in total sales for the top 40
drugmakers, forecasts Datamonitor.  More than 70 therapies for rare diseases have been approved
in  Europe  since 2000, when the European Commission introduced
financial incentives to encourage their development. Those
measures followed similar legislation in the U.S., where more
than 400 such products have been approved in the last 30 years,
according to the  Food and Drug Administration .  Advancing Science  “The science of rare diseases is advancing very quickly
now,” Dunkle said. “We want to see that being translated into
treatments for these people who currently don’t have any. We
also understand there are economic forces at work now and we
want to see pricing established and maintained at a level that’s
going to be sustainable so that everybody can benefit.”  The incentives for companies have helped make orphan
medicines sought-after assets for drugmakers seeking to sustain
earnings as mass-market pills such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor lose
patent protection. Between 6,000 and 7,000 rare ailments affect
as many as 30 million Americans, NORD said, citing the U.S.
National Institutes of Health.  The $20.1 billion acquisition of Genzyme in 2011 gave
Paris-based Sanofi a clutch of orphan drugs that reaped 2.8
billion euros ($3.6 billion) last year, more than the blood
thinner Plavix, which lost U.S. patent protection in May.  Still Attractive  “These drugs as a rule tend to be transformative, tend to
be potentially life-saving,” said David Meeker, chief executive
of the Genzyme unit. “The unmet need in the orphan-disease
space is enormous.”  The increased attention to prices in Europe isn’t
diminishing the attractiveness of orphan drugs, Meeker said.  “The number of assets out there is increasing,” he said
in a telephone interview. “Those that have some success, there
is certainly more attention, and therefore the competition for
these assets has gone up.”  NPS Pharmaceuticals Inc. (NPSP) , the Bedminster, New Jersey-based
developer of a treatment for short bowel syndrome that won FDA
approval in December, priced the drug, Gattex, at $295,000 a
year for a disease that afflicts as many as 5,000 people in the
U.S.  “In the U.S., if you truly go after an indication that is
small, then yes, you can still take higher prices, and you get
away with it,”  Michael Leuchten , an analyst at Barclays Plc in
 London , said in a telephone interview.  European Scrutiny  European payers are a different story, he said.  “They’ve started looking at how much money some of these
companies are making,” he said. “If you make more than a
billion dollars out of a product, at some point somebody’s going
to wake up and say, ’Hang on a second, clearly you’ve recouped
your R&D substantially, and you’ve made an economic return
that’s healthy, and we will have to go after you in terms of
price because otherwise it’s unfair.’”  While the European Commission approves drugs for all 27
members of the European Union, each nation is responsible for
deciding whether and what it will pay for them.  Dutch Health Minister Edith Schippers said in January that
Sanofi and  Shire Plc (SHP)  must cut prices for drugs against two rare
genetic disorders, Pompe and Fabry diseases, to “acceptable
levels” to remain in the nation’s basic insurance package
covered by all health insurers.  ‘Dramatically Less’  Karin IJzendoorn, a spokeswoman for Schippers, declined to
say what the minister meant by “acceptable levels,” and said
the ministry doesn’t comment on ongoing negotiations. Fabry
patients in the Netherlands pay as much as 300,000 euros a year
for treatment, while drugs against Pompe cost as much as 700,000
euros a year, IJzendoorn said in an e-mail. Sanofi’s Myozyme is
the only medicine for Pompe.  “We don’t charge these prices because we can get away with
it,” Sylvie Gregoire, the then-head of Shire’s orphan-drug
business, said in an interview in February. “The cost of
development of these drugs is no different, and the risk is no
different. The number of patients in which it will be utilized
is dramatically less.”  In January, Ireland’s National Centre for Pharmacoeconomics
recommended against the government paying for Vertex’s cystic
fibrosis drug Kalydeco, because the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based drugmaker couldn’t demonstrate cost-effectiveness at its
price of 234,804 euros per patient per year. The drug won
recommendation less than two weeks later after an agreement with
Vertex “significantly reducing the budget impact of the drug,”
according to a  statement  on the NCPE’s website.  Confidential Terms  The terms of the agreement in Ireland are confidential,
Megan Goulart, a spokeswoman for Vertex, said in a telephone
interview.  Alexion, the Cheshire, Connecticut-based maker of Soliris,
said in January that the U.K. government decided not to follow
the recommendation of an advisory group that the drug be used in
patients with atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome. The government
referred the matter to the National Institute for Health and
Care Excellence, which takes over the assessment of drugs for
ultra-rare diseases from the Advisory Group for National
Specialised Services this month.  Assessments of these drugs probably won’t be based solely
on quality-life years, Phil Ranson, a NICE spokesman, said in an
e-mail. He declined to comment on what criteria NICE will
consider.  Uneven Patchwork  “There is a lot of anxiety, particularly among patient
groups, that by focusing on the cost of the drug, rather than
the cost of the condition, there will be a reduced likelihood of
patients with very rare conditions being able to get access to
innovative therapies that have a high cost per patient,” said
Alastair Kent, director of  Genetic Alliance UK , which represents
patients with rare diseases.  With different countries applying different criteria for
deciding what represents value for money, an uneven patchwork of
access and prices has developed across the region.  “There is pressure on price, but that’s not the biggest
problem,” said Richard Bergstrom, director of the  European
Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations . “It’s
blockage on volume.”  About one-third of patients in the European Union who need
an orphan drug either can’t get it or have difficulty gaining
access to it, according to Eurordis, the patient advocacy group.  While drugs such as  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s iron-controlling medicine
Exjade are widely available, patients have limited access to
treatments such as Shire’s Elaprase for a genetic disorder
called Hunter syndrome. Others, including  EpiCept Corp. (EPCT) ’s
leukemia drug Ceplene, are “scarcely available,” according to
Eurordis.  Different Prices  “Why is it that Romanian patients with a rare disease
don’t get these medicines? Because they don’t have as much
money,” Bergstrom said. “Well then, we have to start talking
about paying different prices.”  The European Commission, with 13 EU countries including
 France ,  Italy ,  Spain  and  Sweden , is weighing a plan to
collaborate on assessments of the value that orphan drugs
represent, a step that Bergstrom said may lead to increased use
across Europe. Under the plan, value would be weighed against
criteria such as the rarity of the disease, the availability of
alternative treatments, the effectiveness of the drug, the
response rate and the degree of certainty.  The report of a working group developing the plan may be
endorsed by an EU committee this month, Catherine Berens, a
policy officer at the European Commission, said in an e-mail.
Differential pricing has only been “marginally mentioned” in
the group, she said.  “What it’s going to mean for my members is yes, there may
be lower prices in certain countries, but with that comes
greater access and higher volumes,” Bergstrom said. “Bottom
line, maybe we’re not going to make much more profit, but we’re
going to make profit while even more people benefit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  