-- How Obamacare Will Distort the Health-Care Market
-- B y   L a n h e e   C h e n
-- 2013-04-07T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/how-obamacare-will-distort-the-health-care-market.html
President  Barack Obama  and his
fellow Democrats sold many Americans on the Affordable Care Act
largely by emphasizing two arguments: The law would help to
reduce overall health-care costs, and it would provide health
insurance to those who, for financial or health reasons, cannot
get it now.  Unfortunately, both of these arguments are flawed. The law
creates market distortions that will significantly raise
premiums and costs for many Americans -- including some middle-
income families. And there are less costly, less distortionary
and less intrusive ways to address the problem of the uninsured.  Two recent independent and nonpartisan studies help to
explain how the law fails in its mission.  The first  is from the Society of Actuaries, a group
representing professionals who measure and manage financial
risk. The main conclusion is that individuals and families who
purchase their health insurance in the non-group (basically the
non-employer-based) market will have to pay higher premiums.
This is because the law will increase by 32 percent the costs
that insurers must cover for health-care services, the largest
driver of health-insurance premiums.  The  second study , commissioned by Covered California, the
California entity responsible for setting up the state’s health-
insurance exchange, speaks directly to premium rates. Isolating
the impact that market changes caused by the new federal law
will have, the study concludes that premiums for Californians
will rise by an average of 14 percent. Increases will be most
pronounced for those families who currently have health
insurance and are making more than $94,000 or so -- for them,
premiums may rise by an average of 30 percent.  Market Distortions  What’s the primary reason for these cost increases? In
short, it’s the law’s market distortions. Both studies conclude
that because the law requires insurers to provide coverage to
all comers -- regardless of their pre-existing health status --
the overall pool of those with health insurance will be sicker
and more costly to insure.  Public policy sometimes creates market distortions -- as
with the minimum wage, for example, or some agricultural
subsidies -- and in those cases Americans may believe that the
economic costs are outweighed by the societal benefit. But we
should make these judgments with our eyes wide open.  In the case of health-care reform, there are less expensive
and intrusive ways to help cover the uninsured. We can
accomplish many of the Affordable Care Act’s stated goals while
still addressing the shortcomings of our health-care system.  Arguably the most significant problem that the law tries to
solve with its massive regulatory edifice is that of the patient
with a pre-existing medical condition who is either denied
coverage altogether or charged a prohibitively high premium.
These are people who generally face hurdles in the transition
from employer-based coverage to individually purchased
insurance, or who are changing plans in the individual market.
It’s a problem that affects as many as 4 million Americans, and
it’s one that policy makers ought to solve.  The law addresses these concerns primarily through two
regulations: as noted earlier, a requirement that insurers
provide coverage to anyone who applies, and a prohibition on any
variance in premium due to health status. Unfortunately, these
rules create the very market distortions that raise consumer
costs.  Another Way  There is another way to solve this problem. State-based,
high-risk health-insurance pools can be an effective way of
getting those with pre-existing conditions (and therefore high
health-care costs) access to affordable health insurance.  High-risk pools generally offer a choice of insurance
plans, and enrollment in them is limited to those unable to get
or afford other coverage. Premiums are capped, and the
additional cost of coverage is paid through a variety of
sources, such as assessments on insurers or tax revenue. Because
high-risk pools are isolated from the broader health-insurance
marketplace, they don’t increase premiums for those outside the
pool.  The challenge with high-risk pools is that they must be
properly funded and designed. As the fiscal condition of states
has worsened over the past few years, funding for high-risk
pools has become even more limited. Three years ago, two
conservative scholars  estimated that  a “comprehensive set of
high-risk pool programs” would cost $15 billion to $20 billion
per year. That is a small fraction of the new spending the
Affordable Care Act creates.  The federal government should ensure that state-based,
high-risk pools are properly funded, perhaps in the form of
block grants to states, which should be regularly reviewed to
ensure adequacy. And states should have rules to prevent both
insurers and individuals from improperly taking advantage of the
high-risk pools.  Solutions such as these are far preferable to the
Affordable Care Act’s one-size-fits-all approach. Rather than
distort the health-insurance marketplace in a way that will
increase costs for many Americans, we should focus on reforms
that use market forces to reduce costs. Americans should know
that there are better ways to bring about health-care reform.  (Lanhee Chen is a Bloomberg View columnist and a research
fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. He was
the policy director of  Mitt Romney ’s 2012 presidential campaign.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Lanhee Chen at lchen301 @bloomberg.net or @lanheechen on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  