-- Mozambican Military Ready to Respond to Renamo Attacks
-- B y   W i l l i a m   F e l i m a o
-- 2013-04-08T15:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/mozambican-military-ready-to-respond-to-renamo-attacks.html
Mozambique ’s armed forces are ready
to respond to a series of attacks by militia sympathetic to the
country’s main opposition party, the head of the country’s armed
forces said.  Three people were killed in an attack on a bus in the
central province of Sofala on April 6 while four members of
Mozambique’s special police force and a militiaman loyal to the
Mozambican National Resistance, or Renamo, died in clashes in
the same area on April 4, according to the government.  “We are ready waiting for the head of state to respond to
Renamo’s initiative,” Paulino Macaringue, chief of the armed
forces, told reporters after a Womens’ Day ceremony in Maputo,
the capital, yesterday.  Renamo, formerly backed by  South Africa ’s apartheid
government, fought a 15-year civil war against the ruling Front
for the Liberation of Mozambique, or Frelimo, that ended in 1992
with a peace agreement brokered by church groups. The party last
year said it could resume conflict and complained that elections
in 2009, won by Frelimo, were unfair.  The fighting last week occurred in the district of Muxungwe
after Renamo militiamen attacked members of the Rapid
Intervention Force, the police said in a statement. Renamo said
it was retaliating for a police raid on its office the day
before.  Bus Services  “We want to inform the national and international
community that we are tired of being oppressed by the Frelimo
government and will retaliate for each attack with all our
power,” Renamo Secretary-General Ussufo Momade told reporters
in Maputo last week.  Cape Town-based Intercape, a long-haul bus service, said
one of its coaches was attacked by armed men near Beira on April
6. Two passengers were injured and there were no fatalities, it
said in an e-mailed statement. The daily service from Beira to
Maputo has been suspended, it said.  President Armando Guebuza called yesterday for talks with
Renamo.  “Renamo must stop their attacks and come to dialog,”
Guebuza said. “The government is always open to talks to
preserve the peace and stability in Mozambique.”  Public transport operators have ceased traveling at night
in some parts of Mozambique.  Mozambique is the site of an aluminum smelter operated by
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  while  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and  Vale SA (VALE5)  have coal
operations in the country.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Eni SpA (ENI) 
have discovered natural gas off its coast while Sasol Ltd.
operates a  gas field .  “We are monitoring the situation closely as the priority
is the safety of our employees,” Johannesburg-Sasol said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Felimao in Maputo at 
 wfelimao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  