-- Red Meat’s Fat and Cholesterol Aren’t Its Only Heart Dangers
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-04-07T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/red-meat-s-fat-and-cholesterol-aren-t-its-only-heart-dangers.html
The fat and cholesterol found in a
steak may not be the only components bad for the heart,
according to researchers who have found another substance in  red
meat  that can clog the arteries.  The substance is called carnitine, and as bacteria in the
gut breaks it down, it turns into compound known to harden
arteries, according to  a study  published today in Nature
Medicine. What’s more, people who eat a lot of meat allow more
of the bacteria that convert carnitine to the harmful compound
to grow, increasing its effect.  Previous research has shown that high levels of meat-eating
are linked to cardiovascular risk, due in part to the saturated
fats and cholesterol in meat. However, the higher levels of
these ingredients aren’t enough to explain the difference in
 heart disease  between meat eaters and vegans or vegetarians.
Today’s study, which takes into account the differences in the
stomach’s inhabitants, may begin to explain the difference.  “The bacteria living in our digestive tracts are dictated
by our long-term dietary patterns,” said study author  Stanley
Hazen , the section head of Preventive Cardiology and
Rehabilitation at  Cleveland Clinic , in a statement. “A diet
high in carnitine actually shifts our gut microbe composition to
those that like carnitine, making meat eaters even more
susceptible.”  The study followed 2,595 people and measured carnitine
levels, as well as those of its byproduct, TMAO. Omnivores
produced more TMAO than vegetarians and vegans after eating
carnitine, the researchers found.  Carnitine Sources  Although carnitine is also found in fish, poultry, wheat
and some vegetables, its main food source is red meat,
especially lamb,  according to  the  University of Maryland .
Because vegetarians and vegans eat fewer foods that contain it,
their gut bacteria doesn’t process it as easily, which may
explain some of the health benefits of meatless diets.  After feeding mice diets that would produce high levels of
TMAO, researchers found that animals had higher levels of
hardened arteries. However, if the researchers suppressed the
bacteria living in the mouse’s guts, the effects dissipated.  “The role of gut microbiota in this pathway suggests new
potential therapeutic targets for preventing cardiovascular
disease,” the authors wrote in the paper.  Some people use carnitine as a dietary supplement. Today’s
research suggests that the safety of that supplementation should
be studied more closely to make sure it’s not fostering bacteria
that might promote heart disease, researchers said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale, at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  