-- Retail Sales Probably Stalled in March: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-04-07T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/retail-sales-probably-stalled-in-march-u-s-economy-preview.html
Retail sales  probably stagnated in
March as scant progress in the labor market made it difficult
for Americans to boost spending, economists said before a report
this week.  Purchases were unchanged last month after a 1.1 percent
increase in February that was the biggest gain in five months,
according to the  median  projection from 64 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg before Commerce Department data on April 12.  A March slowdown in hiring combined with little growth in
wages may make it difficult for household spending, which
account for about 70 percent of the economy, to extend gains
seen at the end of 2012 and the first two months of this year.
Nonetheless, Americans are finding relief in falling gasoline
prices and cheaper borrowing costs, which will prevent a slump.  “I worry a little bit about the economy going into the
second quarter, but I don’t think all is weak,” said Raymond Stone, managing director of Stone & McCarthy Research Associates
in Princeton,  New Jersey , and the second-best forecaster of
retail sales in the past two years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. “Automobiles, housing sales are doing better,
lenders are beginning to ease standards, so I think there’s
reason to believe that healing will continue.”  Consumer spending  probably grew at a 3.3 percent annualized
rate from January through March, marking its strongest
performance in two years, according to a forecast by economists
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York . Household purchases
 advanced  at a 1.8 percent rate from October to December, figures
from the Commerce Department show.  Coming Slowdown  The pickup may not last as purchases are projected to
expand at a 1 percent pace this quarter, according to JPMorgan
Chase.  Pickups in consumer and business spending probably helped
the economy expand at a 4 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, according to the JPMorgan Chase economists. They
project growth will cool to a 1.5 percent pace this quarter.  Sales picked up in February even as higher taxes took more
out of Americans’ pocketbooks. Congress agreed to a fiscal pact
on Jan. 1 that gave a permanent tax break to 99 percent of
citizens while allowing the levy used to finance  Social Security 
revert to 6.2 percent from 4.2 percent. A worker earning $50,000
a year is taking home about $83 less a month because of the
higher tax.  Cheaper Fuel  Gas prices   fell  in March, a month when they typically rise,
freeing up more cash for consumers to spend on other goods and
services, and income tax returns have started to come in from
the  Internal Revenue Service .  Still, signs of a cooling in the labor market may temper
spending. Payrolls grew by 88,000 last month, the smallest gain
since June. Employees’ average hourly earnings were unchanged in
March from the prior month, the weakest showing since October,
the Labor Department’s April 5 data also showed.  Stocks and Treasury yields declined after the report. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.4 percent, while the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note dropped five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.71 percent.  “There’s a large group of consumers who are more
financially constrained than they would like and can’t go out as
often,” Andrew Madsen, chief operating officer of  Darden
Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , said during an April 4 investor conference.  Officials at the  Federal Reserve  want to see the economy
quicken so that more of the 11.7 million unemployed Americans
find jobs. Further insight into how the central bankers view the
expansion and their asset purchase program will be unveiled
April 10, when minutes from the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
March meeting are released.  Another report on April 12 is forecast to show sustained
consumer optimism. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
gauge of sentiment probably rose to 78.8 in April from 78.6 the
prior month.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  