-- Schumer Says Senate ‘On Track’ to Agree on Immigration Law
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-07T18:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/schumer-says-senate-on-track-to-agree-on-immigration-law-1-.html
Senator Chuck Schumer, a member of a
bipartisan group working on changes to U.S. immigration law,
said the lawmakers are “on track” to reach an agreement by the
end of this week.  Schumer, a  New York  Democrat, appeared with Republican
Senator John McCain of Arizona, who is among the eight senators
working on the plan, on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.  The Senate immigration effort has been centered on creating
a 13-year path to U.S. citizenship for the estimated 11 million
undocumented immigrants in the U.S., which Democratic President
 Barack Obama  has made a priority for his second term.  “All of us have said that there will be no agreement until
the eight of us agree on a big specific bill,” Schumer said.
“But hopefully we can get that done by the end of the week.
That’s what we’re on track to do.”  Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who is
also part of the negotiating team, said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” that he expected a bill in the “next couple weeks.”  A business-labor compromise was reached on March 29 to
resolve a dispute over a proposed guest-worker program that had
been impeding Democratic-controlled Senate efforts to change
immigration law.  The heads of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s
largest business lobbying group, and the AFL-CIO, the biggest
labor federation, agreed to a tentative deal that would expand
the number of low-skilled laborers that can come into the U.S.
while restricting those allowed to work in construction, where
unemployment is high.  ‘Arguing Over’  Graham said lawmakers have been “revisiting” that
agreement.  “The Democratic Party has to give us a guest-worker
program to help our economy,” Graham said. “That’s what we’re
arguing over.”  McCain said the legislation should include a path to grant
citizenship to people in the U.S. illegally, tougher border
security and a guest-worker program to allow qualified non-U.S.
citizens to work legally.  There isn’t a single sticking point holding up a bill,
Schumer said. “There are lots of little issues on different
parts of the bill that we have to resolve,” he said.  Both Schumer and McCain said passing a final bill remains
difficult.  “There will be a great deal of unhappiness about this
proposal because everybody didn’t get what they wanted,” McCain
said. “There are entrenched positions on both sides of this
issue.”  “There’s a long road,” Schumer said. The Republican-
controlled House of Representatives is moving more slowly than
the Senate on its effort to draft immigration legislation.  Gun Legislation  Schumer said he thinks it’s possible that a gun control
bill will advance.  “I’m still hopeful that what I call the sweet spot,
background checks, can succeed,” he said.  Both Schumer and McCain said that Senate Republicans, some
of whom have been threatening to block gun control legislation,
should at least allow a vote and debate on the issue.  “I don’t understand it,” McCain said. “What are we
afraid of?”  Congressional action on gun-control legislation has been
stymied by opposition from the National Rifle Association, the
nation’s biggest pro-gun lobby.  Republican senators including Marco Rubio of Florida said
in a March 22 letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a
Nevada Democrat, that they “intend to oppose any legislation”
that infringes on the right to bear arms or the ability of
Americans to do so “without being subjected to government
surveillance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  