-- Sirius Minerals Seeks Much as $500 Million for U.K. Potash Mine
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-07T05:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/sirius-minerals-seeks-much-as-500-million-for-u-k-potash-mine.html
Sirius Minerals Plc (SXX) , which is
developing a potash mine in the U.K., is in talks with Chinese,
North American and European investors to raise as much as $500
million of funding for the project.  Sirius will raise $300 million to $500 million through the
sale of equity and may also issue high-yield debt, Chief
Executive Officer Chris Fraser said in an interview yesterday in
the southern Chinese province of  Hainan , where he’s attending
the Boao Forum for  Asia . A decision on potential investors may
be made by the end of this year, he said.  The $1.7 billion  North York Moors National Park  project,
called York Potash, hosts the world’s largest estimated resource
of polyhalite, with 2.2 billion metric tons of the material used
to make sulfate of potash. The U.K.’s only potash mine, Boulby,
is immediately north of York. Potash is a form of potassium used
to strengthen plant roots and protect against drought.  “Chinese people are talking to us, as are people in other
parts of the world, especially  Europe  and  North America ,”
Russell Scrimshaw, the mining company’s non-executive chairman,
said in an interview at the Boao Forum. “So when the time
comes, after we get approvals, we’ll be having some interesting
conversations in this part of the world.”  The proposed site is about 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) from
the coastal town of Whitby and is currently used for farming and
commercial forestry. Sirius is still awaiting some approvals
from the  North York Moors National Park  Authority.  Sirius’s new investors are likely to be large distributors
of fertilizer or large investment funds that are either state-
owned or private, Scrimshaw said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  