-- Slovenia Bailout Signaled by Worsening Debt Swaps: Euro Credit
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-08T10:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/slovenia-bailout-signaled-by-worsening-debt-swaps-euro-credit.html
Slovenia’s creditworthiness is
deteriorating at the fastest pace in the world after Cyprus as
investors speculate a banking crisis will force it to follow the
island nation and become the sixth euro country to need aid.  Credit-default swaps insuring Slovenian debt for five years
soared as much as 66 percent to a six-month high of 414 basis
points on March 28 from 250 on March 15, the last trading day
before Cyprus announced plans for its rescue. It’s now up 34
percent at 336 basis points, compared with a 45 percent increase
for Cyprus and 18 percent for  Portugal  in the period.  Slovenia’s two-week old government is struggling to prop up
banks hit by recession and saddled with bad loans worth about a
fifth of the country’s economic output. Cyprus, which accounts
for 0.2 percent of the euro region’s economy, was forced to
inflict unprecedented losses on uninsured depositors and senior
bondholders as part of the 10 billion euro ($13 billion) rescue
of its financial system.  “Since the Cyprus resolution, Slovenia has been in the
spotlight,” said Bas van Geffen, an analyst at Rabobank
International in Utrecht,  Netherlands . “The country’s smallness
is now clearly a drawback in the post-Cyprus era, which has
fueled speculation that the country might be the next Cyprus.”  Credit-default swaps on Slovenia, which accounts for 0.4
percent of the euro economy, have surpassed those for Spain,
 Italy  and Croatia. The latter was approved to be the 28th member
of the European Union last week.  Portugal Swaps  Slovenian swaps rose to within 40 basis points of
Portugal’s, the smallest difference in three years and compared
with a 114 basis-point gap on March 15. Swaps on Portugal are
trading at 426 basis points, Croatia at 308, Italy at 277 and
Spain at 273.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting $10
million of debt from default for five years is equivalent to
$1,000 a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The yield on Slovenia’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 jumped to a record 6.31 percent on March 27 from 4.98
percent, approaching levels that prompted bailouts of other euro
nations. The yield was 5.57 percent today.  Worries that Slovenia will fail to implement a 4 billion-
euro plan to prop up banks and lose access to financing abroad
are raising borrowing costs as the government looks to tap bond
markets, though Finance Minister Uros Cufer said April 3 he’s in
no rush.  Government Response  “It is important the government responds quickly on its
economic policies,” said Tim Umberger, a senior analyst at East
Capital International AB in Moscow. “The new government has to
continue with fiscal consolidation, bad bank plan and embark on
a privatization plan, if it wants to have continued markets
access for a possible bond sale.”  Slovenia adopted the euro at the start of 2007, becoming
the first post-Communist nation to make the switch, and its
economy outperformed that of  Europe ’s common currency area for
most of the past decade before the recession and collapse of the
construction industry hit its banks.  The nation’s budget deficit is forecast to widen to 5.1
percent of gross domestic product at the end of the year, mostly
due to the conversion of the state’s hybrid loan for Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. into equity, the European Commission said
in a report Feb. 22.  Bank Failure  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. , which had a 205 million-
euro loss 2012, was one of four banks that failed last year to
meet European capital targets set by regulators. Bank of Cyprus
Pcl, Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, known as Laiki Bank, and Italy’s
 Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  were the others. Laiki was
closed as part of the island nation’s bailout. Five Slovenian
banks were downgraded by Fitch Ratings on April 5.  Still, Slovenia’s banking system is smaller relative to the
size of its economy than most European countries and more
similar to Spain than to Cyprus, according to Umberger and Georg Grodzki, head of credit research at Legal & General Investment
Management in London.  Cyprus’s banks, which lost 4.5 billion euros on Greek
sovereign debt, had assets about eight times the country’s
economic output, more than double the average for the euro area.
Slovenia’s were about 1 1/3 times, compared with about three
times for Spain and 2 1/2 times for Italy, Bloomberg data show.  Depositor ‘Haircuts’  “The smaller scale of the banking sector relative to GDP
makes a Cyprus solution of haircutting large depositors unlikely
in our view, but not one that can be discounted entirely,” Bank
of America Merrill Lynch analysts Mai Doan and Arko Sen wrote in
an April 5 note. The analysts see “meaningful risks” Slovenia
will need a 6 billion euro to 8 billion euro bailout.  Public debt in Slovenia is also lower than elsewhere, at
53.7 percent of GDP in 2012, compared with 86.5 percent in
Cyprus and 81.6 percent in  Germany , though it will rise to 59.5
percent by the end of the year and to 63.4 percent in 2014,
according to EU forecasts.  Default swaps on Slovenia are 46 percent higher since the
start of the year, the most in the region, followed by 22
percent each for  Croatia  and the Netherlands. They signal a 22
percent chance of default within five years.  There were a total of 780 swaps contracts covering $717
million of Slovenian debt as of March 29, according to the
 Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. , which runs a central registry
for the market. That compares with 306 contracts insuring $281
million of Cyprus’s debt and 13,579 trades covering $20.2
billion of Italy’s.  “Cyprus sensitized people again to small European
countries with weak banking systems,” Grodzki said. “Slovenia
most likely will require external help to recapitalize the
banking system, but the government can probably shoulder the
extra debt without having to bail in senior bondholders and
depositors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  