-- U.K. Economy Will Struggle Even as Confidence Gains
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-04-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/u-k-economy-will-struggle-even-as-confidence-gains.html
Britain’s economy will struggle to
gather momentum until the second half of the year even as
business sentiment and hiring intentions improve, according to a
survey by BDO LLP.  A confidence index rose to 92.2 in March from 90.6 in
February and a hiring gauge increased to 96 from 95, the
accountancy firm said in a report in  London  today. Still, its
output index, at 93, remains below the 95 level that points to
positive growth one quarter ahead. BDO said “robust business
conditions will remain elusive.”  Britain’s economy shrank in the  fourth quarter  and Markit
Economics said last week that its industry surveys point to
growth of a “mere” 0.1 percent in the three months through
March.  Industrial production  probably rose 0.4 percent in
February, reversing just a third of its slump in January,
economists said before data due tomorrow.  “Economic conditions will continue to be tough until at
least mid-2013,” BDO said. “Weak demand from the U.K.’s key
euro-zone export market, fiscal austerity and declining real
wages, which will limit consumer spending power, suggest
economic growth will be lackluster over the first half.”  The drop in industrial production in January was partly due
to the shutdown of a North Sea oilfield and was led by a 1.5
percent slump in manufacturing.  Factory output  probably also
increased 0.4 percent in February, according to the median of 29
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The Office for National
Statistics will publish the data, as well as the trade balance
for February, at 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.  The BDO report showed that sentiment among manufacturers
fell to 88.2 in March from 94.5 in February. Services confidence
improved to 93.2 from 89.6. An index of inflation rose to the
highest since August.  Separately today, Lloyds Bank said an index of Britons’
sentiment toward job security was unchanged at minus 15 in
March. A gauge of their assessment of employment prospects
slipped 1 point to minus 45, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  