-- U.K. Lawmakers Say Independent Scotland Threatens Defense Jobs
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-04-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/u-k-lawmakers-say-independent-scotland-threatens-defense-jobs.html
Scotland  could put as many as 15,000
defense-industry jobs in jeopardy if it chooses to break with
the U.K., according to a report by lawmakers.  “The impact of separation upon the Scottish defense
industry will be substantial and distinctly negative,” the
House of Commons’ cross-party Scottish Affairs Committee said in
a report published today. “We have been unable to identify any
defense supplier or product which will benefit from separation
and a large number which will suffer.”  The report comes a week after U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  traveled north of the border to emphasize the benefits
of defense jobs before a vote in late 2014 on whether Scotland
should become independent from the rest of Britain. The  Scottish
National Party , which is campaigning for a split, called the
report propaganda for those opposing independence.  The defense industry contributes as much as 2 billion
pounds ($3.07 billion) a year to the Scottish economy, the
report said. That would be at risk because the research budget
for an independent Scotland would be less than 10 percent of the
U.K.’s 400 million pounds and the 2.5 billion-pound  defense
budget  would represent 6.5 percent of the U.K.’s, according to
the report.  Companies in Scotland could lose exclusive contracts with
the U.K.’s armed forces and access to secret technology if
separation occurred, shrinking the market, the report said.  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and  Thales SA (HO)  were among companies visited
by lawmakers compiling the report. Britain’s submarine-based
nuclear arsenal is also based in the west of Scotland.  The Scottish National Party said the report omitted key
evidence. Scottish taxpayers now contribute more to the U.K.’s
defense budget than they get back and Scotland has been
particularly hurt by U.K. defense cuts, Angus Robertson, the
SNP’s defense spokesman, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy London at 
 Skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  