-- Ukrainian President Pardons Lutsenko Amid EU Trade-Pact Bid
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-04-07T17:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/ukrainian-president-pardons-lutsenko-amid-eu-trade-pact-bid-1-.html
Ukraine President Viktor Yanukovych
pardoned jailed former Interior Minister Yuriy Lutsenko, a move
that may bolster damaged ties with the European Union.  Lutsenko, who was serving a four-year sentence for abuse of
power and is an ally of jailed former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, was pardoned along with Tymoshenko’s then-
Environment Minister Heorhiy Filipchuk, according to a decree on
the president’s website.  The EU delayed an association and free-trade deal with
Ukraine indefinitely after Tymoshenko was jailed in 2011 in a
case the 27-member bloc deems an example of selective justice.
It has sought changes to Ukraine’s justice and electoral systems
as a condition for the agreement.  Lutsenko and Tymoshenko, who’s serving a seven-year prison
term, were key figures in the Orange Revolution that helped
overturn Yanukovych’s 2004 presidential victory. Tymoshenko was
convicted of abusing her powers as premier in signing a 2009
natural-gas agreement with Russia that Yanukovych says resulted
in his country being overcharged $6 billion a year. She denies
wrongdoing.  The pardons were welcomed by EU Enlargement Commissioner
Stefan Fule, who called it “first but important step” in
dealing with selective justice, in a Twitter posting today.  Members of opposition parties, including Tymoshenko’s
party, world boxing champion Vitali Klitschko’s UDAR party and
the Svoboda party marched in protest today in Kiev, demanding
freedom for Tymoshenko, the dismissal of the cabinet and a
mayoral election for the city.  About 20,000 people participated, according to estimates on
Svoboda’s  website .  Ukrainska Pravda , an online news service,
cited police estimates of more than 3,000 people. They carried
signs saying “Freedom for Yulia!” and pictures of Yanukovych
with captions saying “Dictator made in Ukraine.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  