-- UPS Appeals EU Rejection of $6.7 Billion TNT Express Bid
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-04-08T20:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/ups-appeals-eu-rejection-of-6-7-billion-tnt-express-bid.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  appealed
the European Union’s decision to block its 5.16 billion-euro
($6.7 billion) bid for  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  to clarify the regulator’s
legal arguments, not to renew its interest in the Dutch rival.  “The reason to appeal would be to ensure a more accurate
assessment of the EU competitive landscape and that there’s no
precedent that could limit international growth opportunity,”
Peggy Gardner, a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based UPS, said by
telephone yesterday.  The world’s largest package-delivery company ended its
pursuit of TNT on Jan. 14 after the European Commission, the
EU’s antitrust watchdog, indicated it would prohibit the deal.
The purchase would have doubled UPS’s footprint in Europe and
helped it compete with  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL unit.  “The appeal is intended to clarify the EC’s legal
assessment of the dynamics of the European express market,” TNT
said in a statement today. “It does not imply a renewal or
reconsideration of the previously proposed UPS offer.”  UPS slid 0.4 percent to $83.23 at the close of New York
trading, while fell 0.1 percent to 5.75 euros in Amsterdam.  La Poste  The commission formally rejected UPS’s takeover on Jan. 30,
saying UPS failed to find a suitable buyer for parts of TNT to
ensure competition wouldn’t be stifled. UPS was trying to divest
parts of TNT to La Poste SA’s DPD unit. EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said combining UPS and TNT would
have increased express-delivery prices in 29 countries.  “We will defend our decision in court,” Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission’s competition unit,
said in an e-mail.  Appeals of commission decisions are filed at the EU General
Court. Rulings by the Luxembourg-based court can take an average
of two years.  The deal was the third blocked by Almunia after he took
over as the EU’s top competition watchdog in 2010. The
commissioner has since vetoed  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ’s 694
million-euro bid for  Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL)   While the EU had said  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  was “the only possible
suitable purchaser” for the assets that would need to be
divested, that Memphis, Tennessee-based company’s limited reach
across  Europe  meant some customers would only be able to choose
between UPS-TNT and DHL for next-day deliveries. FedEx wasn’t
interested in buying TNT’s assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  