-- Vietnam Crony Communists Resist Constitution Backlash
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-08T04:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/vietnam-crony-communists-resist-constitution-backlash.html
While filming a documentary about Ho Chi Minh as his compatriots battled U.S. forces in the 1960s,
Tran Van Tan observed how the Communist leader’s embrace of a
simple lifestyle endeared him to Vietnam’s poor.  Five decades later, Tan says the  Communist Party ’s leaders
are more concerned with enriching themselves than adhering to Ho
Chi Minh’s ideals. Abolishing the one-party system would lead to
“healthy competition” and narrow the wealth gap, said Tan, 65,
a retired civil servant who now sells tea in downtown Hanoi.  “There are people who don’t have enough food to eat, whose
children don’t have enough clothes to cover their bodies in
winter,” Tan said. “There are farmers who don’t have land.
They are so poor, while many in the leadership are very wealthy.
These leaders are so rich that even their children,
grandchildren wouldn’t be able to use it all up.”  Tan is among more than 12,000 former bureaucrats, academics
and rice farmers speaking out publicly against proposed
constitutional changes that would strengthen the Communist
Party’s grip on power. The unprecedented movement threatens to
increase challenges to Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung as he
seeks to turn around a slowing economy which posted  Southeast
Asia ’s highest level of bad debt last year.  “Even if this gets clamped down and turned back, it’s not
gone. It’s a real thread,” said Ernest Bower, president of
Fairfax, Virginia-based BowerGroupAsia, which advises businesses
on operating in Southeast  Asia . “The party will have to deal
with this. If the system grinds down as these big decisions are
made, that’s worrisome because it could create slower growth and
growing discontent.”  ‘Totalitarian Regime’  The benchmark VN Index has rallied 22 percent this year,
the best-performing measure in Asia after  Japan , as easing in
some advanced economies spur inflows into  emerging markets . The
gauge, which climbed 18 percent last year, rose 0.6 percent
today as of the morning break. The dong has weakened 0.5 percent
this year.  Lawmakers began the constitutional review process two years
ago, in part to reflect the country’s shift to a market economy
from Soviet-style central planning. On Jan. 2, the party asked
for public comments on new clauses and changes to old articles,
such as removing language stipulating the state sector will play
the “leading role” in the economy.  Two weeks later, the party received one of the biggest
challenges to its power since the country reunified 37 years ago
after the war: Seventy-two intellectuals and former government
officials, including many party members, produced an alternative
draft constitution calling for “political competition.” As of
last week, the draft received more than 12,000 signatures via an
 online campaign.   The group, which includes current members of the Communist
Party, sharpened its criticism last week after lawmakers refused
to consider their proposals. In an online post, they called on
state media to publish the document and urged people to reject
the “totalitarian regime of the one-party system, which stands
above the state and the law and disables many of the freedoms
and democracy defined in the Constitution.”  ‘No Discussion’  “We expected to have fair dialogue, straight discussions
with them, but so far there’s absolutely no discussion,” Pham
Chi Lan, who served as an adviser to former Prime Minister Phan
Van Khai, said on April 3.  The alternative draft, which calls for democratic elections
and private land ownership, contrasts with the government’s
proposal, which reiterates the current  constitution  in calling
the Communist Party “the force assuming leadership of the State
and society.”  Notable signees of the alternative draft include Ho Ngoc
Nhuan, vice-chair of the party-backed Vietnam Fatherland Front’s
Ho Chi Minh City unit, and Chu Hao, former deputy minister of
science and technology. Farmers from Nghe An, the provincial
home of Ho Chi Minh, also signed the petition.  ‘Bloodshed’  Nguyen Quang A, a retired economist who helped write the
draft, warned of violence similar to 2011 uprisings in  Egypt  and
 Tunisia  if the government doesn’t address land disputes such as
forced evictions. About 70 percent of 1.6 million complaints
received by the country’s Inspectorate between 2008 and 2011
involved land issues, according to a government website.  Shrimp farmer Doan Van Vuon and five family members were
sentenced last week to prison terms of as much as five years for
resisting and shooting at police who came to evict the family
from their land, according to a posting on the government’s
website April 5. Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung last year said
the eviction was illegal and ordered an investigation.  “We want to avoid any violent clashes which may result in
bloodshed,” Quang A said in a March 22 interview. “That’s why
we’re doing this now. The party and those in power need to
understand the issues to avoid society having to pay a very high
price.”  The party has moved to silence detractors. State-run
newspaper  Gia Dinh & Xa Hoi , or Families and Society, fired
journalist Nguyen Dac Kien on Feb. 26 after he wrote a blog post
that criticized Communist Party chief Nguyen Phu Trong, who had
vilified the push for more political parties.  Musicians Jailed  Nguyen Dinh Loc, a former justice minister who had signed
the alternative draft, last month said he didn’t participate in
writing it after meeting with party officials. The government,
which said a sixth of  Vietnam ’s 90 million people have commented
on the changes, extended a March 31 deadline for comments until
September, after which lawmakers will consider the changes.  Vietnam routinely imprisons dissidents who call for greater
political freedom. In January, 14 activists received as many as
13 years in prison for subverting the government by
participating in anti-China protests. Last year, two musicians
were jailed for spreading anti-state propaganda after Dung
ordered a crackdown on blogs that attacked him.  Internal disputes last year prompted Trong to apologize for
the Communist Party’s failure to rein in corruption. Dung and
other top government leaders will face confidence votes in
Parliament for the first time next month.  Dung said in December the economy may grow 5.5 percent this
year after expanding 5.03 percent in 2012, the slowest pace
since 1999. Vietnam’s wealthiest 20 percent earned on average
9.2 times more in wages in 2010 than the poorest fifth, up from
8.4 times in 2006, according to the  General Statistics Office .  Vietnam’s economy will continue to face difficulties this
year, said National Assembly Vice Chairwoman Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan
at a conference held by the parliament’s economic committee
April 6. The government needs to accelerate economic structural
reforms to boost growth, she said.  Tan, who helped with Ho Chi Minh’s documentary, said it’s
important to advocate for a multi-party system even though
changes may be years away.  “We probably can’t make anything significantly different
right now, but we still need to speak out,” he said.
“Hopefully it can help change things gradually.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in  Hanoi  at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  