-- Virgin Atlantic Seeks Return to Black Via ‘Little Red’ Push
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-04-08T13:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/virgin-atlantic-seeks-return-to-black-via-little-red-u-k-arm.html
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., best-
known for long-haul flights to New York and the Caribbean, is
poised to roll out a third domestic route in a bid to funnel
more passengers from northern Britain to its London hub.  The service from Aberdeen in  Scotland  to Heathrow airport,
commencing tomorrow, will take the number of daily trips at the
“Little Red” domestic arm to 26, after the introduction last
week of flights from Edinburgh and Manchester, northern England.  Richard Branson ’s Virgin is adding its first all-U.K.
routes in 28 years after losing passengers carried to its hub by
ally BMI in 2012 when the  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  unit merged with
British Airways. While the service will bear Virgin’s scarlet
livery and use operating slots secured by the carrier, the
planes will be operated by Ireland’s  Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL)   “In an ideal world they wouldn’t be doing short-haul,”
said  John Strickland , the director of JLS Consulting Ltd. in
London. “The real aim for Virgin is feeder traffic, but in
accounting terms these kind of routes tend to be loss-makers.”  Crawley, England-base Virgin, under new American chief
Craig Kreeger, 53, made its name serving a mix of trans-Atlantic
business routes, holiday destinations such as Cancun in Mexico
and global cities including Sydney, Hong Kong and Cape Town.  Mounting Losses  Unlike larger carriers such as BA, Lufthansa and  Air
France-KLM Group (AF) , Virgin opted not to develop a network of
short-haul services feeding passengers onto its intercontinental
flights, relying instead on demand for travel originating or
ending in London, topped up by the defunct partnership with BMI.  Virgin Atlantic had a loss of 80.2 million pounds ($123
million) in fiscal 2012 as it struggled with high fuel costs and
increased competition from an antitrust-immune alliance of BA
and  American Airlines . That widened to 135 million pounds in the
12 months ended Feb. 28, the London-based Sunday Times newspaper
reported March 10, citing an internal company memo.  Virgin has sought to restore earnings by freezing pay,
delaying the addition of bigger planes and cutting unprofitable
routes to destinations including Nairobi and Kingston,  Jamaica .  While an alliance with  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , agreed in
December, should boost traffic from the U.S. by coordinating
schedules and sharing flight codes, Virgin needs Little Red to
tap the one-third of U.K. residents who live in northern England
and Scotland, three or more hours from Heathrow by road or rail.  Gulf Threat  The need to retain feeder flights has been heightened by
the introduction of long-haul services from cities such as
Manchester by Emirates, Etihad Airways PJSC and Qatar Airways
Ltd., which offer hundreds of onward links via hubs in the Gulf.  From Edinburgh, the most popular through-route based on
sales so far is Tokyo’s Narita airport, with three times as many
bookings as any other connecting destination, followed by New
York John F. Kennedy and  San Francisco , the company said today.  From Aberdeen, JFK and Shanghai are most popular, while for
flights from Manchester “the runaway leader” is JFK, followed by
 Los Angeles  and San Francisco.  The new business will utilize four  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A320 narrow-
body planes and crews, rented from Dublin-based Aer Lingus on a
so-called wet lease basis. Virgin expects it to carry almost 1
million passengers in the first year of the operations.  Code-Share Partners  The Manchester-Heathrow service began March 31 and that
from Edinburgh on April 5, with round-trip tickets starting at
about 107 pounds.  Heathrow-bound departures will be timed to maximize onward
connections, though early-morning flights should appeal to
business travelers and the operation “covers the day,” Chief
Executive Officer Kreeger said today at a press briefing.  Some 31 airlines, many of them former BMI partners, are
also offering flights with Little Red connections. Four --
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) ,  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR) ,  South African
Airways  and Cyprus Airways -- are code-sharing on the new
routes, with more carriers poised to do so, the company said.  Virgin said it’s holding talks with  Heathrow Airport  Ltd.
aimed at collocating Little Red flights that serve the hub’s
Terminal 1 with long-haul flights operating out of Terminal 3.  Little Red “will stop British Airways dominating routes and
driving higher prices,” according to Branson, 62, who said at
the briefing in Edinburgh that a partnership with Air France-
KLM, Delta’s ally in the SkyTeam global alliance, is a
possibility once the tie-up with the U.S. carrier is completed.  Rail Option  “It makes sense,” Branson said. “The most important thing
is for us to get the Delta deal through. Once that’s happened, I
wouldn’t be at all surprised if we would have some discussions.”  The billionaire entrepreneur added that the new routes to
Scotland won’t comprise the ability of his Virgin Trains
business to bid for the upcoming East Coast rail contract.  Branson owns 51 percent of Virgin Atlantic, with Delta
paying $360 million for the 49 percent that had been held by
Singapore Airlines Ltd. The airlines are working with regulators
on both sides of the Atlantic and anticipate winning approval
for their joint venture later this year, Ed Bastian, the U.S.
company’s president, said March 21.  The introduction of Little Red also casts a spotlight on
Kreeger, who took over as CEO from Steve Ridgway on Feb. 1,
having previously spent 27 years at  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , where he helped
coordinate the American Airlines- British Airways (IAG)  joint venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in Edinburgh via 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  