-- Where Bank Regulators Go to Get Rich
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-04-07T22:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/where-bank-regulators-go-to-get-rich.html
Mary Schapiro , the former chairman
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, must take us for
fools.  No need to worry about her and the so-called revolving door
between government and Wall Street, she  told  the Wall Street
Journal on April 2, after announcing she would be joining the
Promontory Financial Group LLC as a managing director in its
 Washington  office, in charge of its governance and markets
practice. “In my case, there’s no revolving door,” she said. “I
won’t ever be going back to government.”  Oh well, then, I guess that makes it OK that four months
after leaving the SEC, Schapiro is joining a firm stuffed to the
gills with former government financial-services regulators
peddling their knowledge of Washington’s regulatory thicket to
the banks and financial-services companies they once oversaw.
(Schapiro, remember, also had a swell incoming trip through the
revolving door: She previously ran the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority,  Wall Street ’s self-appointed watchdog,
which paid her a bonus of almost $9 million after she left to go
to the SEC in 2009.)  Promontory, founded in 2001 by Eugene Ludwig, a former
comptroller of the currency, has become a sort of mini-version
of  Fannie Mae  in its heyday. Back then, the mortgage giant was
the ultimate revolving door between Washington and the private
sector, paying retired politicians huge salaries to lobby their
former colleagues. We all know how that turned out.  About 100 of the 400 Promontory employees are former
Washington regulators; some 5 percent, like Ludwig, come from
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates
all banks with federal bank charters, including Citigroup Inc.,
Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. Last year, the
firm hired Julie Williams, the former chief counsel of the OCC.
To keep things in the family, the agency hired as Williams’s
replacement Amy Friend, a Promontory managing director.  Among the members of Promontory’s advisory board are  Arthur Levitt , like Schapiro a former SEC chairman (and now a senior
adviser to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and a board member at
Bloomberg LP); Frank Zarb, a longtime Wall Street hand at firms
such as Lazard, American International Group Inc. and Citigroup;
Kenneth Duberstein, the former chief of staff to President
 Ronald Reagan  and a member of the special committee of the board
of directors of Dell Inc.; and Alan Blinder, a Princeton
University economics professor and former Federal Reserve vice
chairman.  Blinder is a particularly interesting case study of how
Promontory works its magic. According to the Promontory website,
Blinder is a co-founder of something called Promontory
Interfinancial Network, which when you cut through the
gobbledygook says it helps smaller financial institutions get
some of the same benefits of size enjoyed by our “too big to
fail” banks. One of the products Promontory Interfinancial
offers customers is Insured Cash Sweep, which according to a
 fancy video  allows someone with more than $250,000 in cash on
deposit in a bank -- the limit of what the  Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation  will insure -- to get federal insurance
for any amount.  What the company does is allow someone to hand over, say,
$1 million, which is then broken up for him into four $250,000
pieces and farmed out to separate financial institutions so
that, voila, each $250,000 is FDIC-insured. The depositor
notices no difference on a daily basis -- he can still get his
money whenever he wants, unless the money is in a savings
account, where access is limited to six times a month -- but,
like magic, $1 million is federally insured instead of just
$250,000.  Nassim  Nicholas Taleb , the best-selling author of the
“ Black Swan ,” describes in his latest book, “Antifragile,” how
he ran into Blinder at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland , one year and thought he was going to engage the
former Fed vice chairman on ideas about how to save the
financial system. Instead, Blinder tried to sell him on Insured
Cash Sweep. It quickly dawned on Taleb what Blinder was up to.  “It would allow the super-rich to scam taxpayers by getting
free government sponsored insurance,” Taleb wrote. “Yes, scam
taxpayers. Legally. With the help of former civil servants who
have an insider edge.”  “Isn’t this unethical?” Taleb asked Blinder.  According to Taleb, Blinder told him, “It is perfectly
legal,” adding that, “we have plenty of former regulators on the
staff.”  Taleb felt this implied “that what was legal was ethical
and asserting that former regulators have an edge over
citizens.” Taleb calls it the  Alan Blinder  Syndrome: “A model of
how people use public office to, at some point, legally profit
from the public.”  Taleb told me the other day that he views Schapiro’s move
to Promontory -- and to a seat on the board of General Electric
Co. -- no differently. “I find Mary Schapiro morally repulsive,”
he said, because there is an “implicit deal” whereby regulators
such as Schapiro and Blinder (and many others) “make regulations
complex” and then “sell their services at a higher price when
they go to the private sector.”  Taleb proposes that high-ranking regulators who return to
the private sector, where they benefit directly from their
knowledge of complex regulations and agencies, be forced to
return to taxpayers any compensation above their own former
salary. In Schapiro’s case, Taleb would have her return to
taxpayers anything exceeding the $165,000 or so she earned as
SEC chairman. “Mary Shapiro has used the taxpayer to puff up her
career,” he said. “To me, it is a legal scam, taking advantage
of the taxpayer because no regulator will ever make a regulation
that’s clean anymore.”  While the chances of Taleb’s proposal becoming reality are
exactly zero, it remains deeply disturbing that former top
government regulators can skip off to the private sector so soon
after leaving public service, and then insist it is something we
shouldn’t worry about. Enjoy your big new payday at Promontory,
Ms. Schapiro, but please spare us the sanctimonious claptrap.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  