-- Why Rescue Fragile Banks? Outsource Them Instead
-- B y   J o s h u a   R o s n e r
-- 2013-04-07T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/why-rescue-fragile-banks-outsource-them-instead.html
Executives of the largest U.S.  banks 
warn that efforts to make the financial system safer will harm
their global competitiveness. They conjure a world in which
foreign institutions, supported by government subsidies,
dominate the business of providing banking services to
multinational corporations.  My response: Great idea. Let’s outsource fragile banking.  Large as they are, institutions such as  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  aren’t the primary source of U.S. dominance
in the global financial-services industry. The country’s real
advantage is in asset management. At the end of 2011, hedge
funds, mutual funds and other U.S. institutions  managed  about
$33 trillion in assets around the world, more than three times
the  amount  commanded by the six largest U.S. banks. The asset
managers’ activities support domestic and global growth,
distribute risk and reinforce market discipline.  The banks differ from the asset managers largely in the
 risk  they pose to the broader economy. The sheer complexity of
their operations, and their penchant for using large amounts of
debt to fund their business, make them “systemically important”
and necessitate taxpayer bailouts when they get into trouble. In
other words, they concentrate risk, rather than distribute it,
and extract a very high price from taxpayers for whatever role
they play in supporting growth.  Low Margin  It’s worth asking whether the costs of having such
systemically risky firms in the U.S. outweigh the benefits.
Automakers, for example, cut expenses by sourcing components
from countries where producers enjoy taxpayer subsidies or lower
labor costs. Why not outsource the most fragile parts of our
financial system to countries whose taxpayers are willing to
accept the burden? After all, it’s a very low-margin and low-
value-added business:  JPMorgan (JPM) ’s return on assets last year,
even with the reduced borrowing rates that implicit taxpayer
support provides, amounted to less than 1 percent. The bank’s
higher return on equity was driven by leverage.  Since at least the rise of the Bank of England in the 17th
century, banks were the primary drivers of financial
intermediation, aggregating capital -- in the form of deposits -
- and allocating that capital to individuals and corporations.
The goal was to earn a return investing in productive businesses
with increasing market opportunities. Given the social benefits
of investment and the commensurate risks to society when money
is misallocated, it made sense for governments -- and hence
taxpayers -- to support the system, ensuring that banks could
earn a fair return while operating in a safe and sound manner.
This was a worthy trade-off for centuries.  Over the past 50 years, with the development of a privately
managed pension system, the deregulation of trading commissions
and a move to decimal pricing, assets flowed away from bank
deposits to investment accounts controlled by a growing asset-
management industry. The shift compressed margins at traditional
banks, prompting them to secure the repeal of the  Glass-Steagall
Act , a change that allowed them to get into the business of
securities trading.  The result is today’s giant bank and investment-bank
amalgamations, which rely on taxpayer subsidies to win business
from corporate clients and asset managers, and to boost returns
on risky speculative trading. Functionally, they are utilities
providing low-margin commodity services.  If the U.S. continues to bend markets in an effort to
 protect  such banking juggernauts, it will imperil taxpayers
while risking the global dominance of its asset managers and the
depth, breadth and transparency that they add to capital
markets. This would be like sacrificing the development of the
automobile to save manufacturers of horse-drawn carriages.  Systemically Riskless  Bankers argue that if the government  reduces  its support
for big banks -- by increasing capital requirements or limiting
bank size -- it will starve U.S. businesses of the low-cost
funding they need to grow.  This seems highly unlikely. First, the U.S. has more than
7,000 smaller, systemically riskless banks that are more than
able to support the needs of small business and consumers
without presenting an economic threat to society. Second, the
largest U.S. corporations get most of their funding from capital
markets, not from big banks.  Finally, European and Asian governments  remain  committed to
backstopping losses at their own too-big-to-fail banks.
So if U.S. companies are looking for low-margin, taxpayer-
subsidized lending, they can still get it.  If foreign governments want to support the underpricing of
risk and the uneconomic lending that has repeatedly harmed their
taxpayers, why not allow our corporations and consumers to
benefit? Let other countries’ taxpayers bear the costs. The U.S.
should lead the world in productivity and not be relegated to
competing in a race to zero.  (Joshua Rosner is a managing director at independent
research firm Graham Fisher & Co. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Joshua Rosner at  jrosner@graham-fisher.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  