-- Why Making Europe German Won’t Fix the Crisis
-- B y   I v a n   K r a s t e v   a n d   G e o r g i   G a n e v
-- 2013-04-07T22:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/why-making-europe-german-won-t-fix-the-crisis.html
Most people see  Europe ’s  economic
crisis  as a cautionary tale of good and bad policy making, in
which fiscally prudent countries, such as Germany, remain
stable, while reckless ones, such as Greece, unravel.  So ingrained is this idea that it’s now common to hear
analysts say Europe must become “German” to exit from the
crisis, adopting Teutonic approaches to policy -- from fiscal
 tightening  to labor- and product-market reforms. If only
societies on Europe’s periphery can learn to do what the  Germans
do , the argument goes, the European Union and its single
currency will have a stable future.  This is wrong and we already have evidence to show it. The
question isn’t whether Germany’s policies are correct. It is
whether they will produce the same outcomes in different
economic and political environments. To see that they don’t, you
need to ignore Greece and look at its neighbor,  Bulgaria .  Like Germany,  Bulgaria  went through several years of
prudent budgets and economic reforms aimed at improving
competitiveness before the financial crisis began in 2008. Both
countries initially responded to the shock with sudden increases
to their budget deficits, but also quickly reined these back in.
Bulgaria’s deficit was 0.7 percent of gross domestic product in
February,  according  to the  Finance Ministry . Government debt was
16 percent of GDP. So pretty German already.  Identical Policies  In both countries, per-capita economic growth has been
positive through the crisis (except for a dismal year in 2009),
with average annual German per-capita GDP growing at 2.1 percent
in 2010-2012, only slightly faster than Bulgaria’s 1.7 percent.
The two countries’ monetary policies have also has been
virtually identical. Although Bulgaria isn’t a euro member, its
currency (the lev) is pegged to the euro and its central bank is
banned from lending to commercial banks. As a result, monetary
policy is, in reality, set by the  European Central Bank  in
 Frankfurt .  Lest anyone think this Bulgaria-Germany connection is
fanciful,  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has made it on several
occasions, praising Bulgaria as a model for other European
economies to follow.  Despite all this, Bulgaria’s Germanic calm was shattered in
February, when street protests over rising electricity prices
triggered the collapse of the government. Why? Because ordinary
Bulgarians can’t afford German policies, any more than they can
afford a German BMW or a Mercedes.  Germany is one of the richest members of the EU and by far
its most influential. Bulgaria is the poorest country in the EU,
as well as being one of its newest and least influential
members. Bulgarians are more than 2 1/2 times poorer than
Germans and have a much  lower  rate of employment.  This isn’t about liking or disliking the EU. Both
populations score highly in terms of trust in the bloc, though
for different reasons: Germans because they trust their own
government and its ability to influence the EU, and Bulgarians
because they don’t. According to the EU’s  Eurobarometer  survey,
70 percent of Germans believe their voice counts in what their
national institutions do, compared with 37 percent of
Bulgarians.  Wealth and institutions can explain why the same fiscally
prudent policies played out so differently in these two
countries. To wealthy Germans, fiscal conservatism in their
institutionally functional country promises that tomorrow won’t
be too different from today -- their lifestyle will be
protected. In poor,  dysfunctional  Bulgaria, the same policies
make people angry that tomorrow will be too much like today.
They are angry because their poor lifestyle won’t change.  Lost Hope  This may help to explain why the trigger for the
government’s collapse in Bulgaria was  rising  electricity prices,
which make up a far larger portion of people’s incomes than in
Germany and were eroding already poor standards of living. Lost
hope for a better future is probably the most important feature
of Bulgaria’s political crisis.  For decades, the formula that drove the EU’s integration
has been one of divergent policies producing convergent economic
performances. The EU is the most impressive economic catch-up
machine the world has known. So why is it that the shift toward
policy convergence today is threatening to destroy this machine?  In the last 15 years, both Germany and Bulgaria underwent
important economic reforms, but the political context for these
could not have been more different. Former German Chancellor
 Gerhard Schroeder ’s Agenda 2000 reforms were marked by consensus
and institutional stability. The two largest political parties
(Schroeder’s Social Democrats and the  Christian Democratic
Union ) supported the reforms. Initiated by the nation’s
political elite, the changes were broadly -- if not
enthusiastically -- endorsed by the electorate.  Bulgaria’s situation is the opposite. The country’s macro-
economic policies altered little over the years, while its
governments changed all the time. Since the collapse of the
Soviet bloc in 1989, not a single government has been re-elected
to power in Bulgaria. Voters constantly demanded change, but no
matter which leaders they chose, they got the same macro-
economic policies.  If Germany’s economic transformation was a classic case of
politically driven reform, Bulgaria’s experience was an equally
clear example of the “there is no alternative” doctrine. That’s
the same one now on offer to voters in  Greece ,  Italy  and other
peripheral euro-area economies.  Bulgarian politicians, one after the other, justified their
loyalty to fiscal conservatism by arguing that this was the pre-
condition for joining the EU -- something Bulgarians
overwhelmingly wanted, and achieved in 2007. Governments
compensated for their inability to change economic policy in
response to voter unhappiness, by constantly churning personnel.
Protests therefore swing instantly from complaints that won’t
get addressed -- such as high electricity prices -- to demands
for radical political and constitutional change.  Bulgarian Instability  Both countries face elections this year, Bulgaria on May 12
due to the collapse of the government, and Germany in a routine
vote on Sep. 22. Opinion polls suggest the ruling center-right
parties are likely to win in both cases, but the similarities
end there. Few predict significant changes for  Germany . In
Bulgaria, by contrast, expect a prolonged period of Italian-
style political instability.  A convergence of policies has led to opposite outcomes in
Germany and Bulgaria, showing that Europe won’t necessarily be
cured by becoming German. This is because it is wide differences
in wealth and institutional performance, rather than divergent
policies, that threaten the EU and its currency.  (Ivan Krastev is chairman of the Centre for Liberal
Strategies in Sofia and is a permanent fellow at the Institute
for Human Sciences in Vienna. Georgi Ganev is a program director
at the Centre for Liberal Strategies and is assistant professor
at Sofia University. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Ivan Krastev at  ivan@cls-sofia.org 
Georgi Ganev at  gogi@cls-sofia.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  