-- Wong Can’t Commit to Australia Budget Surplus as Revenues Fall
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-07T01:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/wong-can-t-commit-to-australia-budget-surplus-as-revenues-fall.html
Australia ’s chances of delivering a
budget surplus are diminishing as the government’s revenue is
being curbed amid a period of weakness in the economy, Finance
Minister  Penny Wong  said.  “What we are seeing in the economy means that we have a
very large hit on revenues,” Wong said in an interview on  Sky
News  today. “That’s a hit that is substantial both in this year
and over the forwards.”  She declined to directly answer when government will be
able to deliver a  federal budget  surplus, saying the objective
is to do so “over the economic cycle.” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , whose budget is due May 14, was forced to abandon a
pledge to achieve a surplus this year as slow growth and
currency gains curbed tax revenue.  “We do face some unusual circumstances,” Wong said,
noting that nominal gross domestic product has been below real
gross domestic product for three successive quarters for the
first time in 50 years, slowing company profits and tax revenue.  The national budget fell a further A$4.6 billion ($4.8
billion) into deficit in the first four weeks of 2013, taking
the total shortfall to A$26.8 billion for the first seven months
of the financial year, according to Treasury figures released
March 15.  In its October mid-year review, the government forecast a
budget surplus of A$1.08 billion in the 12 months ending June
30. It recorded a A$44 billion deficit last fiscal year.  The cabinet expenditure committee sees little chance of a
surplus in the four years ending mid-2018, the Australian
Financial Review  reported  yesterday, citing unidentified people
in government. The Gillard administration will argue that it is
economically irresponsible to impose deeper spending cuts to
achieve a surplus, the newspaper cited the officials as saying.  “The government has always said you make the right
economic calls for the time, and the government has made the
right economic calls,” Wong said. “The budget will certainly
comply with the government’s medium-term fiscal strategy, which
has the objective of surpluses over the economic cycle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  