-- WTI Rebounds Following Biggest Weekly Drop in Six Months
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-04-08T12:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/wti-rebounds-in-new-york-after-biggest-weekly-drop-in-six-months.html
West Texas Intermediate oil
rebounded after its biggest weekly drop in six months, snapping
three days of losses. Brent’s premium to  New York  crude was near
the smallest it has been since June.  Futures gained as much as 1.1 percent in New York after
falling 4.7 percent last week, the biggest drop since the period
ended Sept. 21. The main rebel group in Nigeria, Africa’s
largest crude producer, said it killed 15 security personnel in
an attack in the southern oil-producing Bayelsa state. Net-long
positions in WTI held by money managers climbed 3.2 percent in
the seven days ended April 2, and by 8.9 percent for Brent,
separate reports showed.  “We really have seen the bottom in the oil price after the
recent selloff,” said  Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at
Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London.  WTI for May delivery advanced as much as $1.05 to $93.75 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $93.40 at 1:21 p.m. in London.  The contract slid 56
cents to $92.70 on April 5, the lowest closing price since March
21.  Brent for May settlement rose $1.19 to trade at $105.31 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
contract slumped 2.1 percent to $104.12 on April 5. The European
benchmark grade was at a premium of $11.83 to WTI. It closed at
$11.42 on April 5, the narrowest settlement since June 22. The
volume of all WTI futures traded was 32 percent below the 100-
day average, while Brent was 35 percent higher.  Brent Contango  Brent futures for May settlement traded at a discount of 6
cents to the June contract, a situation known as a contango
market, where prompt supplies cost less than those for later
delivery. Front-month prices fell below second-month prices for
the first time since June 2012 on April 5.  Oil in New York has technical support along its 100-day
moving average, about $92.14 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures on April 5 halted an intraday
decline near that indicator for a second day. Buy orders tend to
be clustered close to chart-support levels.  Net-long  positions  in WTI held by money managers, including
 hedge funds , climbed by 6,281 futures and options combined to
205,410, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
April 5 Commitments of Traders report. In London, hedge funds
and other money managers raised  bullish bets  on  Brent crude  by
the most in two months, according to  data from ICE Futures
Europe .  Speculative Bets  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 142,092 lots in
the week ended April 2, the London-based exchange said today in
its weekly Commitment of Traders report. The increase of 11,619
lots, or 8.9 percent, is the biggest in terms of contract
numbers since Feb. 5 and the largest in percentage terms since
Jan. 29.  Nigeria’s Movement for the Emancipation of the  Niger Delta 
said on April 3 it would resume attacks in the country after its
suspected leader,  Henry Okah , was sentenced to 24 years in
prison in  South Africa  on terrorism charges. Okah denies being a
leader of the group.  Attacks including kidnappings and bombings of installations
by groups such as MEND reduced Nigeria’s oil output by more than
28 percent between 2006 and 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Violence declined after thousands of fighters
accepted a government amnesty offer in 2009.  Iran Talks  Iran  and a group consisting of the U.S., Britain,  France ,
China,  Russia  and  Germany  failed to reach an interim deal on the
Gulf nation’s nuclear work during negotiations in Almaty,
 Kazakhstan , that ended on April 6. This may mean more pressure
for additional sanctions on the fifth-biggest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Two days of talks left the sides “far apart in
substance,” European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said on behalf of the group. Diplomats didn’t announce
plans for new talks on  Iran’s nuclear program , which the U.S.
and its allies suspect is an effort to develop technology needed
to produce weapons. Iran says the program is designed solely for
power generation and other non-military uses.  Norwegian unions and employers reached an agreement in
collective bargaining talks that extended beyond a midnight
deadline, averting a strike that would have started today and
curbed offshore oil production for the second time in less than
a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  