-- Yankees Avoid Three-Game MLB Sweep by Beating Tigers, Verlander
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-08T04:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/yankees-beat-tigers-verlander-7-0-to-avoid-three-game-mlb-sweep.html
The  New York Yankees  avoided a
three-game series sweep in Detroit with a 7-0 win over the
Tigers as CC Sabathia outpitched  Justin Verlander  in a matchup
of former Cy Young Award winners.  Sabathia pitched seven scoreless innings yesterday at
Comerica Park, while Jayson Nix and  Francisco Cervelli  -- two of
the last three hitters in New York’s lineup -- combined to go 5-
for-8 with a home run and four runs batted in.  After losing the first two games in the rematch of last
season’s American League Championship Series, the Yankees scored
three runs in the second inning against Verlander, who won the
2011 AL Cy Young Award and was last year’s runner-up. Cervelli
opened the scoring with an RBI double and Nix followed with a
two-run homer.  “They have a winning mentality about them and they’re
going to find a way to win this year,” Verlander said of the
Yankees. “You don’t ever take anything for granted. As you saw,
it was the bottom of the lineup that did the damage.”  New York improved to 2-4 and avoided its first 1-5 start
since the 1989 Major League Baseball season. The Yankees are
tied for last place in the AL East with the  Toronto Blue Jays ,
who lost 13-0 yesterday to the first-place  Boston Red Sox .  Detroit, which swept the Yankees four-games-to-none in last
season’s AL championship series, fell to 3-3 on the season.  The Atlanta Braves, Colorado Rockies and  Arizona 
Diamondbacks all won yesterday to improve to 5-1, tied for the
best record in the major leagues. The Braves beat the Chicago
Cubs 5-1, the Rockies rolled past the San Diego Padres 9-1 and
the Diamondbacks topped the Milwaukee Brewers 8-7 in 11 innings.  The New York Mets are 4-2 after beating the Miami Marlins
4-3 on a two-run single by Marlon Byrd in the bottom of the
ninth inning. The Mets are tied in the NL East with the
 Washington Nationals , who lost 6-3 to the Cincinnati Reds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  