-- Yankees Fall Into Last Place in AL East, Mets Defeat Marlins
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-07T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-07/yankees-fall-into-last-place-in-al-east-mets-defeat-marlins.html
The  New York Yankees  fell into last
place in the American League East yesterday after losing 8-4 to
the Detroit Tigers, who are looking to sweep the three-game
Major League Baseball series today.  The loss ruined pitcher  Phil Hughes ’s return to the team
from a stay on the disabled list with a bulging disc in his
upper spine. Hughes, 26, had been scheduled to make a minor-
league rehabilitation start yesterday and wasn’t expected to be
called up to the majors until April 11.  Hughes (0-1) allowed four runs on eight hits in four
innings and struck out four for the Yankees at Comerica Park in
Detroit. At 1-4, New York is two games behind the Baltimore
Orioles,  Boston Red Sox  and Tampa Bay Rays who share the
division lead at 3-2.  “We’ve got to get it turned around,” manager  Joe Girardi 
told reporters. “We’re swinging the bats O.K. We’ve got to get
our pitching turned around.”  The Yankees trailed 5-4 on Lyle Overbay’s two-run single in
the sixth inning before the Tigers scored twice in the sixth and
once more in the eighth as  Miguel Cabrera , who went 4-for-4,
came home on Andy Dirks sacrifice fly.  Max Scherzer (1-0) gave up four runs on five hits and
struck out seven in five innings for the Tigers (3-2).  John Buck drove in four runs for the  New York Mets , who
defeated the Miami Marlins 7-3 at Citi Field in New York.  Daniel Murphy hit a run-scoring triple to break a 3-3 tie
and then reached home on  David Wright ’s single to make it 5-3.
Buck hit a sacrifice fly to score Wright and Collin Cowgill
ended the scoring with an eighth-inning home run.  Brandon Lyon (1-0) gave up one hit and struck out two in
the eighth inning to get the win. Ryan Webb (0-1) surrendered
three runs on two hits in 1 2/3 innings for the Marlins (1-4).  The Mets (3-2) are third in the National League East, one
game behind the Washington Nationals and Atlanta Braves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  