-- ABN Amro Increases Hedge-Fund Investments Amid Volatility
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-06-19T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/abn-amro-increases-hedge-fund-investments-amid-volatility.html
ABN Amro  Private Banking is moving
more money into hedge-fund investments that are profitable amid
increased volatility in credit and equity markets, according to
Chief Investment Officer Didier Duret.  ABN Amro, which manages 164 billion euros ($207 billion)
for clients, today raised its allocation in hedge-fund
investments to overweight from neutral, meaning it holds more
than are represented in global benchmarks.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility, a gauge
known as the  VIX (VIX)  that measures the amount investors are paying
for protection from losses on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
began June at the highest level since December. Bank of America
Corp.’s MOVE Index, which measures price swings based on options
on differing duration Treasury bonds, ended last week at the
highest level this year.  “ Hedge funds  are in a stronger position to extract value
and preserve capital than constrained ‘long-only’ investments in
bonds and equities,” Duret, who is based in Geneva, said in a
phone interview. “Global-macro hedge funds can better preserve
capital and make money when financial markets ignore
fundamentals and are more driven by macroeconomic and policy
risks.”  More than $5 trillion has been erased from share prices
around the world since March amid concern growth is slowing in
the U.S. and  China , the world’s largest economies, and as
 Europe ’s debt crisis intensified.  Cash Hoard  Optimism among global asset allocators tumbled this month
as money managers sold equities and hoarded cash at the highest
level since 2008, a Bank of America survey showed last week.
Respondents managing $522 billion reduced their holdings in
stocks to underweight for the first time in seven months,
meaning they own less than are represented in benchmarks.  ABN Amro maintained a neutral stance on equities, favoring
North American stocks and avoiding European shares. The money
manager is holding less commodities investments than are
represented in global benchmarks and is overweight corporate
bonds.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  ended little changed yesterday
as surging Spanish bond yields tempered optimism about  Greece ’s
attempts to form a coalition government.  “The positive Greek election result does not change asset-
allocation dynamics,” said Duret. “Uncertainty remains beyond
the relief rally in equities as well as for the euro. A neutral
position on equities balances the risk of a new crisis moment
and positive market reaction created by forceful policy
action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  