-- Machine-to-Machine Profit Seen in Watch’s Emergency Call
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-06-20T09:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/machine-to-machine-profit-seen-in-emergency-call-by-watch-tech.html
As the head of the geriatrics
department in a Zurich hospital,  Daniel Grob  fully understands
the dangers elderly people face alone at home. Lately, though,
he’s gotten a lot less worried about his own 91-year-old mother
-- who lives on her own about 50 miles away -- because she’s
wearing a watch that can make emergency calls.  “One of the major risks for the elderly is falling,” Grob
said. Those who can’t get back up can face dehydration,
hypothermia, pneumonia or kidney failure. “If my mother falls
now, she can request help. She knows she can always reach
somebody.”  The watch, called  Limmex , connects to the network of the
country’s biggest phone company,  Swisscom AG (SCMN) , and is programmed
to automatically dial as many as 10 numbers including Grob’s,
his two brothers’ and her neighbors’ at the push of a button.
The watch has a built-in loudspeaker and microphone to talk
directly to the emergency contacts.  The service illustrates how mobile operators worldwide are
trying to tap the $82-billion market for so-called machine-to-
machine communications as revenue from traditional voice calling
declines. For Swisscom, which posted its first quarterly loss in
almost a decade in February, those new offerings are needed to
boost earnings, executive  Gerhard Schedler  said.  “In the mid-term I expect each person in  Switzerland  to
have at least 20 connected things around him such as smart
switches, meters, watches, bicycles and temperature sensors,”
said Schedler, head of the company’s M2M business. Though he
declined to offer details, he said the business will increase
Swisscom’s profitability.  Data Boost  The technology is an opportunity for mobile-phone operators
to show that they can boost sales from additional data services.
After losing the battle for online application stores to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the companies are struggling to convince
investors they are more than a platform that facilitates surging
demand for data-hungry mobile devices.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Europe ’s largest mobile-phone company,
in March agreed with Boston Scientific Corp. to jointly develop
a remote health-monitoring system that allows patients to use
mobile devices to send health information to their doctor
without leaving home.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , co-owner of
 Verizon Wireless , agreed this month to buy Hughes Telematics
Inc. for $612 million to expand offerings that transmit data
between car components.  “Phone companies are looking for possible growth drivers
and M2M is one of them,” said  Matt Hatton , a director at
London-based Machina Research, a consultancy that focuses on new
mobile business models.  Higher Margins  Phone companies could see revenue of 40 billion euros from
M2M services in 2020, up from 5.8 billion euros last year,
Machina estimates, as M2M connections are predicted to grow to
12 billion in 2020 from 1.2 billion in 2011.  In 2010, consumer electronics offerings accounted for 44
percent of M2M connections, followed by 12 percent for so-called
intelligent building solutions such as systems that
automatically control heating, cooling and security alarms,
according to Machina. While the average revenue per user tends
to be lower with M2M applications, the profit margins are
usually higher than for traditional phone services, Hatton said.  The need of phone operators to find new data applications
is a blessing for Limmex AG Managing Director  Pascal Koenig .  The Limmex is “a combination of traditional watchmaking
craftsmanship, high-technology electronics as well as a secure
IT-system behind it,” Koenig said. Limmex investors include
Zuercher Kantonalbank and Andy Rihs, co-founder of hearing-aid
maker  Sonova Holding AG. (SOON)   It’s a Watch  Since its introduction in October, Limmex has sold a “good
four-digit number” of watches, and the company plans to start
offering the service in several other European countries this
year, Koenig said. Operators benefit from such offerings because
they help them sell mobile subscriptions to new customers who
otherwise wouldn’t have one.  Elderly people “are not used to cell phones and computers,
SMS and e-mails, and other modern gadgets,” Grob said. “But
they accept Limmex because it is and looks like a watch.”  The watch, which comes in 12 models,  starts at 495 Swiss
francs  ($523) and comes with a subscription with Swisscom
starting at 25 francs a month for the network connectivity.  Voice Slump  Swisscom in February forecast lower revenue for 2012 and
said prices will continue to decline. The company is seeking to
offset pressure caused by increased competition and regulation
with “new attractive products and continued cost control,” CEO
Carsten Schloter said at the time.  Sales from corporate customers for fixed phone-line
services dropped by about 20 percent over the past four years,
Swisscom said Feb. 28. In the last quarter of 2011, demand for
the company’s M2M offerings rose by about 10 percent.  The shares fell 0.5 percent to 373.70 francs at 11:47 a.m.
in Zurich. The stock is up 5 percent this year, while the
Bloomberg Europe Telecommunications Index has lost 8.4 percent.  Swisscom is marketing M2M technology to electric utilities,
which can use it to read electricity meters remotely rather than
sending staff. Consumers may use it for navigation devices that
help them avoid traffic jams. And Schedler said the technology
may also be used for more esoteric applications such as letting
coffee machines re-order beans automatically.  In 2016, the number of mobile Internet-connected devices
will surpass 10 billion as mobile data traffic will increase 18-
fold over the next five years,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  estimated in
February.  So mobile-phone carriers need to realize that machines
offer more potential growth than people, says Leif-Olof Wallin,
an analyst at research firm Gartner Inc. in Gothenburg,  Sweden .  “Mobile-phone companies can’t sell more SIM cards to human
beings as the penetration rates in some European countries are
well above 100 percent,” he said, referring to the subscriber-
identity modules inside mobile phones. “So it’s quite natural
for them to sell SIM cards to things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  