-- Adobe’s Quarterly Profit Forecast Trails Some Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-20T20:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/adobe-quarterly-sales-and-profit-forecasts-miss-some-estimates.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the largest
maker of graphic-design software, declined after it forecast
sales and profit that trailed estimates as it began selling its
products via subscriptions.  Fiscal third quarter earnings excluding some items will be
56 cents to 61 cents a share,  San Jose , California-based Adobe
said in a statement yesterday, citing weaker demand in  Europe .
Analysts predicted 61 cents, the average of  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales for the period ending in August will be $1.08
billion to $1.13 billion, less than the $1.14 billion estimated.  By adding a subscriptions line, Adobe is attempting to make
sales growth more predictable, avoiding the revenue shortfalls
and stock declines that occur in between updates of its Creative
Suite software. It started the move in April with the release of
software called Creative Cloud, which lets users rent Photoshop
and other graphics programs over the Web for monthly fees.  The strategy carries risks. It would take the company more
than four years to collect as much from a subscriber as it
generates from a single sale of the desktop version of the top-
end Master Collection software package, which includes
applications like Photoshop and Illustrator.  Adobe reduced the high end of its annual sales growth
forecast range to 7 percent from 8 percent, which is “anemic”
for a technology company, said Barbara Coffey, an analyst with
National Securities in  New York .  ‘Low End’  “No one really was expecting the narrowing of that range
to the low end,” said Coffey, who said the revision is a result
of the shift to subscriptions. Coffey has a sell rating on the
shares.  Adobe declined 2.7 percent to $31.99 at the close in New
York. The stock has climbed 16 percent this year through
yesterday.  “This was always meant to be a transition year,” Chief
Financial Officer Mark Garrett said in an interview yesterday.  Moving to a subscription-based model will mean about $10
million will be erased from quarterly sales for the foreseeable
future, Garrett said.  Still, Adobe has 90,000 paying online subscribers to cloud-
computing versions of its software and is adding 5,000 net
subscribers a week, Garrett said.  “It bodes well for the long-term prospects of the
company,” he said.  Surface Tablet  Second-quarter net income fell 2.4 percent to $223.9
million, or 45 cents a share, from $229.4 million, or 45 cents,
a year earlier. Sales increased 9.8 percent to $1.12 billion,
compared with $1.02 billion in the year-earlier quarter.  Profit excluding some items was 60 cents, topping the
average 59-cent estimate compiled by Bloomberg. The number
excludes items such as stock-based and deferred compensation
expenses, restructuring charges, amortization of purchased
intangibles, and investment gains and losses.  Garrett also said the impending arrival of  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Surface tablet computer will showcase Adobe software
such as its Lightroom photo editing app. Microsoft showed
Lightroom running on Surface at an event in  Los Angeles  earlier
this week. The software isn’t available for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  