-- Air France Said to Consider Sale of Servair Catering Unit
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-06-19T15:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/air-france-said-to-consider-sale-of-servair-catering-unit.html
Air France-KLM Group is considering
a sale of a stake in Servair, the world’s third-largest inflight
caterer valued at 300 million euros ($380 million) according to
analysts, three people with knowledge of the situation said.  Europe’s biggest airline, seeking to cut costs and raise
cash, has hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to assess interest in Servair, which
has 10,250 staff and 797 million euros in sales, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the process is
private. No decision has been taken on a sale or the size of the
holding that might be made available, all three people said.  Air France has said there’ll be “no taboos” as it seeks to
identify more than 2 billion euros in annual savings by the end
of June. The Paris-based company had been unusual in trying to
build a profit center around providing food, something airlines
are increasingly outsourcing as they focus on core operations.  “This is credible,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo
& Cie in Paris with a “buy” rating on  Air France (AF)  stock. “Servair
is among assets we think could be undervalued, plus it’s a full
subsidiary, which is not the case with some other activities,
and there aren’t a lot of synergies with the main airline.”  Global Reach  About three-quarters of  Servair ’s revenue is derived from
catering, its website says, with 14 percent from cleaning and 7
percent from airport restaurants and duty-free sales. The unit
also provides consulting and lounge-management services.  Founded in 1971, Servair says it supplies 49 types of
cuisine to more than 120 airlines and has 9 percent of the
inflight-catering market. The unit operates from 75 global sites
which deliver more than 230,000 meal trays per day, about
100,000 of them at Paris’s Charles De Gaulle and Orly airports.  An Air France-KLM official declined to comment on the
company’s plans for Servair when contacted today.  Alexandre de Juniac, chief executive officer at the group’s
French unit, who said May 24 that all ways of cutting costs will
be considered, didn’t return calls from Bloomberg yesterday,
while Philippe Calavia, group chief financial officer, said by
e-mail that as a Servair board member he was unable to comment.  Richard Creswell, a spokesman for Bermuda-based Lazard, the
biggest independent merger adviser, also declined to comment.  Africa Appeal  Air France-KLM closed 3.3 percent higher at 3.26 euros in
Paris, paring the stock’s decline this year to 18 percent.  Servair is particularly attractive because of its presence
in markets such as  Africa , according to Oddo’s Derocles, who
puts the business’s value at 300 million euros. That might
attract interest from industry leaders LSG Sky Chefs, owned by
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , and  Gategroup Holding AG (GATE) , together with
private-equity firms and catering companies, the analyst said.  While selling a stake in Servair won’t in itself satisfy
Air France’s savings and cash requirements, an impending deal
with unions to cut jobs could result in under-utilized assets
such as real estate which might also be sold off, he said.  Still, Air France-KLM may find itself auctioning Servair
just as Lufthansa seeks a buyer for its own LSG Sky Chefs unit,
the No. 1 inflight caterer with 30 percent of the market.  Lufthansa is weighing a sale of a majority stake in Sky
Chefs and values the whole business at as much as 1 billion
euros based on 2011’s earnings of 147 million euros, though no
final decision has been made, according to one of the people.  Austrian Interest  Europe ’s second biggest airline said May 30 it may scrap as
many as 1,000 of 29,600 jobs at the catering arm as part of a
plan to shave 1.5 billion euros from group-wide expenses through
2014 after a 381 million-euro first quarter operating losses.  Claudia Lange, a spokeswoman for Cologne-based Lufthansa,
said by telephone that there are no grounds for speculation
about the company’s holdings, while adding that assets have been
sold in the past and that Sky Chefs is “working on heightening
profitability” as part of the wider savings plan.  Financial Times Deutschland reported June 4 that talks on
selling as much as 49 percent of Sky Chefs were advanced, with
Lufthansa seeking a partner from the catering industry. Vienna-
based  Do & Co Restaurants & Catering AG (DOCO) , which prepares food for
more than 60 airlines, said June 6 it would look at the unit,
confirming CEO Attila Dogudan’s comments to  Der Standard .  Sky Chefs has around 200 kitchens, ranking it world No. 1
ahead of Zurich-based Gategroup, which has 130.  Gategroup was founded as the Gate Gourmet unit of Swissair
in 1992 and doubled in size in 1999 with the $780 million
acquisition of Dobbs International Services, the U.S. No. 1. The
business was bought by U.S. buyout firm Texas Pacific Group in
2002 when Swissair collapsed. It was sold to investors in 2007
and listed on  Switzerland ’s main stock exchange in 2009.  Spokesman John Bronson said Gategroup had no comment on
either the Servair or Sky Chefs businesses.  Lufthansa ended the day 5 percent higher at 8.62 euros in
 Frankfurt , with it and Air France-KLM the top two performers on
the seven-member Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index. Gategroup was
priced up 1.1 percent at 26.55 Swiss francs in Zurich.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at   jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  