-- Air Products to Buy 67% of Indura for $707 Million
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-06-19T20:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/air-products-to-buy-67-of-indura-for-884-million.html
Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) , the
world’s largest hydrogen producer, agreed to buy 67 percent of
 Chile ’s Indura SA for 351 billion Chilean pesos ($707 million)
to gain sales of industrial gases and welding equipment in Latin
America.  The transaction also includes assumption of 100 billion
pesos of Indura’s debt, Air Products said today in a
 presentation , increasing the value to $908.5 million. The deal
is expected to close by early July and will add to Air Products’
earnings in the fiscal year starting in September, the
Allentown, Pennsylvania-based company said in a statement.  The deal would be Air Products’ largest, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, and would make it the second-biggest
provider of industrial gases in  Latin America  with $1.5 billion
of annual sales, the company said. The acquisition follows a
failed $5.9 billion hostile bid for U.S. gas distributor  Airgas
Inc. (ARG)  that ended in February 2011.  “Indura expands our geographic presence and adds
additional growth opportunities, helping balance our global
portfolio,” Chief Executive Officer John McGlade said on a
conference call. “Latin America is the next-highest growth
region in the world after Asia.”  Equity Purchase  Indura , currently controlled by the Briones family, is the
largest independent industrial-gas company in Latin America,
with 62 percent of sales in Chile, McGlade said. The Santiago-
based company has annual sales of $478 million, more than 20
production sites and in excess of 2,300 employees. It also has
more than 100 retail outlets in  Argentina , Chile, Colombia,
 Ecuador  and  Peru , Air Products said.  The equity purchase will be made in two phases, and the
Briones family has a  put option  for the remaining interest in
the company it founded, Chief Financial Officer Paul Huck said
on the call.  About 85 percent of Indura sales are packaged gases, such
as oxygen and acetylene, sold in small metal cylinders, and the
remainder are bulk sales to industries such as steel and glass,
Huck. About 65 percent of the packaged-gas sales are related to
welding.  Air Products plans to expand bulk sales with growth in
Latin American manufacturing, McGlade said.  Cost savings from the transaction will be about $20 million
a year, Huck said. The deal will be financed with a 3-month
bridge loan to facilitate the purchase in pesos, followed by
long-term financing, he said.  Air Products had $237 million in Latin American sales,
excluding joint ventures, or 2.4 percent of total revenue, in
its 2011 fiscal year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares rose 2.5 percent to $81.58 at the close in  New
York , the highest since May 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  