-- Major Banks Largest Source of Consumer Bureau Complaints
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/major-banks-largest-source-of-consumer-bureau-complaints.html
Major banks including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were the
subjects of the largest number of complaints to the U.S.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in 2011, according to data
obtained through a public records request.  Bank of America accounted for about 13 percent of the
13,210 complaints, mostly about credit cards, to the bureau
between July 21 and Dec. 31, 2011. JPMorgan and Citigroup each
accounted for about 11 percent,  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) 
represented about 8 percent, and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  accounted for
about 5 percent. The number of complaints was roughly consistent
with the size of the banks’ credit card business.  Complaints filed since June 1, 2012 will be made available
to the public on its  website  today, the consumer bureau said in
an e-mailed statement. Complaints from before then will be
included later this year, it said.  “We intend to make this data widely available to
consumers, advocacy groups, businesses, policy makers, and
journalists,”  Richard Cordray , the bureau’s director, said in a
telephone news conference. “Anyone with access to the web will
be able to review and analyze the information, and draw their
own conclusions.”  The consumer bureau proposed a  rule  on Dec. 8 that would
provide for public disclosure of data on credit card complaints
that excludes consumers’ personal identification. The banking
industry has objected to the publication of company names.  Steven Zeisel, the vice president and general counsel of
the Consumer Bankers Association, wrote in a Jan. 30 comment
letter on the proposal that disclosure would expose banks to
“undue reputational risk and harm.”  ‘Unsubstantiated Views’  “The inclusion of identifying information on institutions
in a public database will likely only serve to provide one-
sided, unsubstantiated views of consumer complaints,” Zeisel
wrote.  The Dodd-Frank law of 2010 requires the consumer bureau to
set up a complaint system, and gives it authority to make the
data it collects public. The database will include the type of
complaint, the complainant’s zip code, the name of the company,
and a description of what action, if any, the company took in
response, the agency said.  The database will not include information about the
complainant’s identity, the bureau said. Complaints will only
enter the system once the agency has verified the business
relationship between the company and the consumer, it said.  The 2011 complaint data obtained under a public records
request is roughly consistent with the banks’ status as the
largest credit card issuers in the U.S. The top issuers by
number of cards are JPMorgan, Bank of America, Citigroup,
 Discover Financial Services (DFS)  and  American Express Co. (AXP) , according
to a February 2012 data published by The Nilson Report, an
industry newsletter.  ‘Customer Feedback’  “We’re always interested in customer feedback -- good and
bad -- since we are focused on continuous improvement and
providing a great customer experience,” said Capital One
spokesman Pam Girardo.  Spokesmen for JPMorgan and Citigroup declined to comment,
spokesmen for Bank of America and Wells Fargo did not respond to
requests for comment.  In the 2011 complaint data, most of the entries -- 9,307 --
pertained to credit cards, while another 2,236 concern
mortgages. The data does not include a “narrative” field that
outlines the exact nature of a consumer’s grievance. It was
exempted by the bureau to protect personal privacy. Instead, the
complaints are categorized in general terms, such as  interest
rates , billing disputes or late fees.  First Report  The consumer bureau began accepting complaints on credit
cards on July 21, 2011, and on mortgages the following Dec. 1.
The data coincides with the period covered by the consumer
bureau’s  first annual report  on its complaint system.  Complaints logged during that period received a response
from the companies in question in 88.1 percent of the cases,
according to the March 31 annual report. The companies reported
closing more than 55 percent of the complaints “with relief,”
which means the consumer got “objective, measurable, verifiable
monetary value” as a result of action by the company, the
report states.  The closing rate masks a large disparity between how
companies treated complaints on credit cards and mortgages.
Complaints were closed with relief in 64.1 percent in the credit
card category, and 18.6 percent in the mortgage area.  In today’s statement, the consumer bureau said that it
logged “more than 45,000” complaints through June 1, about
17,000 of which were about credit cards. Another 19,000
concerned mortgages, and about 6,500 dealt with checking
accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  