-- American Equity Says Former CEO Wendy Waugaman Dies at 51
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-19T21:32:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/american-equity-says-former-ceo-wendy-waugaman-dies-at-51.html
Wendy Waugaman, the former chief
executive officer of  American Equity Investment Life Holding
Co. (AEL) , has died after struggling with cancer, the company said.  Waugaman, 51, died June 18, John Matovina, who was named
interim CEO of the West  Des Moines , Iowa-based insurer this
month, said in an interview yesterday.  She joined in 1999 as chief financial officer and general
counsel and became CEO on Jan. 1, 2009. The firm advanced 50
percent in New York trading since she took over through June 7,
compared with the 52 percent gain of the Russell 2000 Index.  “We are deeply saddened by the loss of our respected
colleague and friend,” American Equity Chairman  David Noble 
said in a statement yesterday. “Wendy was dedicated to the
success of American Equity and an industry leader in the fixed
index annuity business.”  The insurer said June 8 that Waugaman was going on medical
leave and that Matovina, who was serving as CFO, would take the
interim CEO post. The  Business Record , an Iowa newspaper, named
Waugaman to its Women of Influence list in 2011.  “To succeed, you have to have passion,” Waugaman said in
an  interview  posted by the publication. “That’s really passion
for people, it’s passion for solving problems and it’s passion
for climbing mountains of all kinds.”  Waugaman worked as outside corporate counsel for American
Equity since 1995, when the firm was founded. She graduated from
Drake University and received a law degree from the University
of Notre Dame Law School.  She was president of the Des Moines Metro Opera Foundation
board of trustees and served on the board of Buena Vista
University, according to her  biography  on the insurer’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  