-- Annual Corporate Reports Weren’t Always Dull Propaganda
-- B y   M a u r y   K l e i n
-- 2012-06-19T17:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/annual-corporate-reports-weren-t-always-dull-propaganda.html
In its heyday, the annual
corporate report approached a work of art: a handsome
glossy document crowded with splendid color photographs
showing a company’s officers and smiling employees hard at
work.  Pages crammed with data, statistics and charts
underscored the message that things were going really well
-- or, if not, would soon be right back on track. What
annual reports lacked in candor they made up for in
presentation, their prose crafted with care by consultants
specializing in the art of best-foot forward. The annual
report was, in short, a piece of propaganda designed to
make management look good and stockholders feel good.  As bland as annual reports may feel today -- in an era
of cost-cutting and heightened regulation -- the ritual is
more than 160 years old, and its history is a monument to
American individualism.  The honor of the first conventional annual report has
often been attributed to the Borden Co.’s issue in 1858,
but some railroads were producing them years before. The
Providence & Worcester Railroad, for example, published its
first report in 1845.  Before the 1890s, however, few businesses apart from
the railroads were public corporations with large numbers
of shareholders. The owners of privately held companies
typically believed that their internal affairs weren’t the
public’s business.  Going Public  A merger wave from 1895 to 1904 created giant new
industrial corporations with publicly traded stocks,
prompting the  New York  Stock Exchange to recommend they
issue annual summaries of their businesses for
shareholders. AT&T began in 1885, Monsanto in 1902.  Although an attitude still prevailed at many companies
that they were above such disclosure, those that were
published varied wildly in style and content. R.G.
LeTourneau, a deeply religious man and an innovator in
manufacturing earthmoving equipment, opened his company’s
report with a biblical quotation. On the next page, he
wrote, “I love to build machinery, I love to design it, but
I am constantly aware of the fact that it takes skilled men
to build...to assemble...to test...and operate it...I would
like to add that just as a machine needs a man to direct
and control it, so man who is God’s mechanical Masterpiece
needs God to direct and control him.”  By contrast, William A. Fairburn, president of Diamond
Match Co., in 1942 offered his readers 100 tightly filled,
personally written pages pontificating on corporate lore,
economics, taxation, Congress, democracy, the prevalence of
blister rust in Diamond’s vast timberlands and the
company’s growth prospects, among other topics.  The first truly modern annual report was probably
issued by Elbert H. Gary, the chairman of  U.S. Steel (X) , in
1902. It was voluminous, detailed, generously illustrated
and actually revealed much about the company’s affairs.  Depression Regression  During the stock-market craze of the 1920s, many
companies discovered that an attractive annual report was a
useful instrument for security salesmen. A decade later, as
the Great Depression raged, the typical report grew
simpler, more conversational, and aimed as much at
employees as stockholders.  In 1931, Westinghouse explained how its employees
agreed to share jobs and contribute part of their wages to
help those laid off. A year later, it elaborated on its
“work-spreading program to give some of all available work”
to as many employees as possible. Workers at all levels, it
said, donated 1 percent to 2 percent of their pay, which
the company matched, to buy food for furloughed comrades.  In 1940, General Foods tried the novel approach of
presenting its corporate information in dialogue form set
at a mythical annual stockholders’ meeting.  World War II brought another twist. Companies boasted
of their contributions to the war effort, although many
couldn’t spell them out in detail for security reasons.  During the economic boom of the postwar years,
companies scrambled to portray themselves as modernizing
leaders in their fields. Annual reports grew longer, more
elaborate, more colorful and usually more self-serving.
Their role as propaganda became standardized. Few followed
the lead of  Warren Buffett , the chairman and chief
executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , whose unique
approach has turned his annual reports into an educational
experience.  Yet for all the variety of approach and format in
these reports, many executives even today share the belief
of Enders M. Vorhees of U.S. Steel, who said in 1943, “I
regard the intelligible annual report not as a duty but as
an elementary act of self-preservation.”  (Maury Klein is a professor of history emeritus at the
University of  Rhode Island  and the author of 16 books on
American history. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Maury Klein at
 maurykl@verizon.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 