-- ArcelorMittal Unit Grows Profit Amid Euro Slump: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-06-20T10:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/arcelormittal-unit-grows-profit-amid-euro-slump-corporate-india.html
Uttam Galva Steels Ltd. (UTTM) , the Indian
unit of ArcelorMittal, is targeting a 20 percent increase in
profit over the next two years as demand at home bucks a global
slump sparked by Europe’s debt crisis.  The need for vehicles, refrigerators and washing machines
in the world’s second-most populous nation will help the Mumbai-
based steelmaker cut its dependence on Europe, Deputy Managing
Director Ankit Miglani said in an interview. Earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization may climb to 6.2
billion rupees ($111 million) in the year ending March 2014 from
5.2 billion rupees in the last fiscal year, he said.  “The focus is on  India  as this will be a high-demand
zone,” he said. “ Europe  has affected not only us but the
entire world and mills are operating at lower capacities.”  Steel demand in India will increase 8 percent this year
compared with 5.5 percent in the previous 12 months, according
to government forecasts, even as growth in Asia’s third-biggest
economy slowed to the least in almost a decade. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s plan to spend $1 trillion over the next five
years on public works will also spur demand. Overseas sales of
the alloy slumped 30 percent in April-May period.  “Exports have fallen steeply despite a weakening rupee as
international prices fell and Europe, which is one of its main
markets, is facing a slowdown,” said  Niraj Shah , an analyst at
Mumbai-based Fortune Equity Brokers (India) Ltd. “Local
steelmakers are better off getting higher returns here as the
demand in India looks fairly strong.”  Car Demand  Uttam Galva extended gains, rising 2.7 percent to close at
73.40 rupees in Mumbai, the highest level in almost eight weeks.
The key  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 0.2 percent. ArcelorMittal,
controlled by billionaire Lakshmi N. Mittal, climbed as much as
2.7 percent to 12.49 euros and traded at 12.40 euros as of 12:44
p.m. in Amsterdam.  Uttam Galva has risen 47 percent this year, compared with a
12 percent drop in the shares of its Luxembourg-based parent.  Total vehicle sales in India rose 10.5 percent in May from
a year earlier, undeterred by borrowing costs near a three-year
high and costlier gasoline, compared with a 24 percent slide in
April for Europe, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  As disposable incomes rise in India, demand for consumer
durable products including refrigerators and washing machines is
expected to grow more than 50 percent to 520 billion rupees by
2015, according to industry group Associated Chambers of
Commerce and Industry of India. The domestic market accounted
for half of Uttam Galva’s sales last year, up from about 30
percent in 2009, Miglani said.  Closed Plants  ArcelorMittal (MT) , which holds a 34 percent stake in Uttam
Galva, has shuttered or idled plants in  Belgium ,  Spain ,  France 
and Luxembourg in the past nine months. Growth in world steel
demand this year is forecast to slow to 3.6 percent from 5.6
percent, while Europe may be see a 1.2 percent contraction,
according to the World Steel Association.  Europe’s financial crisis has reduced sales at PSA Peugeot
Citroen, Fiat SpA and Renault SA by 15 percent or more in the
first five months of the year, according to the European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association. In contrast, Indian car
sales are forecast to grow 12 percent this year, according to
data from the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  Fiat (F)  will cut investments in Europe by 500 million euros
($631 million) and Peugeot plans to sell a larger stake in its
trucking unit as the region’s automakers grapple with an
extended market slump. The drop in European car sales
accelerated in May to 8.4 percent, the eighth consecutive
monthly decline, according to ACEA figures released June 15.  Europe Crisis  European steel-plant shutdowns are inevitable as
overcapacity pushes the price of the metal lower, shrinking
earnings, regional lobby group Eurofer said June 13. Valuations
have fallen to an almost eight-year low, based on the Bloomberg
Europe Steel Index of shares, as the region’s economic crisis
adds to pressure from competition for sales.  Uttam Galva will complete a 5 billion rupee investment to
increase factory efficiency and product quality by the end of
next year, Miglani said. Net income rose 2 percent to 779.6
million rupees in the year ended March 31. Sales gained 3
percent to 51.7 billion rupees.  The company plans to increase output by 18 percent to 1
million tons in the year ending March 31, and all of that
addition will be sold locally, Miglani said.  India’s steel prices will closely track the local currency,
Miglani said. Should the Indian rupee weaken, it will discourage
steel imports and shore up local prices, he said. The rupee has
fallen 9.1 percent this quarter, the worst-performing currency
in  Asia , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “India is such a large country that steel consumption is
bound to go up,” A.S. Firoz, chief economist at the steel
ministry, said in a phone interview. “The per capita
consumption is still very low.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  