-- Asarco Seeks Pollution Accord Reversal, Cites Probe
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-06-19T18:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/asarco-seeks-pollution-accord-reversal-cites-probe.html
Grupo Mexico SAB (GMEXICOB) ’s Asarco unit asked
a U.S. judge to throw out the $219.5 million settlement of its
Omaha, Nebraska, lead-contamination case, claiming the true
source of the pollution was concealed by a U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency official who is under criminal investigation.  Asarco, which filed the largest environmental bankruptcy
case in U.S. history to resolve pollution at about 100 sites
nationwide, was misled into paying a “grossly inflated’’
settlement amount to resolve an EPA claim that a company smelter
contaminated the Omaha site, Asarco attorneys said today in a
filing in federal  bankruptcy court  in  Corpus Christi ,  Texas .  For the past year, Asarco has accused Robert Feild, the
EPA’s Omaha lead project coordinator, with leading an evidence-
destruction campaign that hid an agency study indicating the
Nebraska property was probably contaminated by lead paint
peeling from old houses rather than Asarco smelter emissions.  Asarco recently learned “that a criminal investigation is
being conducted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the EPA Office
of Inspector General relating to potential obstruction of
justice by Feild regarding Omaha Lead Site-related litigation,’’
according to the filing.  Asarco ‘Confident’  Gregory Evans , Asarco’s lead lawyer, said the company was
motivated to seek withdraw of its settlement over the Omaha
pollution claims when it learned of the criminal probe.  “We are confident the court will order EPA to return some
or all of the $219.5 million Asarco paid when it sees and hears
all of the evidence of EPA’s data manipulation, document
withholding and document destruction,” Evans said in an e-
mailed statement.  Feild didn’t immediately reply to a voice-mail message
seeking comment on the filing.  Eileen McMahon of the EPA inspector general’s office said
she has read about the accusations concerning the Nebraska
official and under agency policy couldn’t confirm or deny the
existence of such a probe.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment on the filing in an e-mail.  The case is In re Asarco LLC, 05-21207,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of Texas (Corpus Christi).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha
 at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 