-- Asian Immigrants in U.S. More Likely to Favor Democrats
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-06-19T16:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/asian-immigrants-in-u-s-more-likely-to-favor-democrats.html
Asian-Americans have surpassed
Hispanics as the fastest-growing group of new immigrants to the
U.S. and may provide a boost to Democratic Party hopes in this
year’s elections, a survey shows.  Among immigrants to the U.S. in 2010, 36 percent were Asian
and 31 percent Hispanic, according to the report by the Pew
Research Center in  Washington . In  2008 , 42 percent of immigrants
were Hispanic and 33 percent Asian.  Half of Asian-Americans say they’re Democrats or lean
Democratic, compared with 28 percent who identify with or lean
toward Republicans, the report released today shows. Among the
general public, Democrats have a 49 percent to 39 percent lead
over Republicans.  Their political views aren’t the only thing that set them
apart. More than six in 10 people between the ages of 25 and 64
who came from  Asia  in recent years have at least a bachelor’s
degree, twice as much as recent non-Asian immigrants. And they
are three times more likely than other immigrants to get green
cards because of their employer rather than their family ties.  “In an economy that increasingly relies on highly skilled
workers, they are the best-educated, highest-income, fastest-
growing race group in the country,”  Paul Taylor , executive vice
president of the Pew Research Center, says in the report.  Undocumented Immigrants  The 18.2 million Asian-Americans in 2011 comprised 5.8
percent of the  U.S. population , up from less than 1 percent in
1965. There are 52 million Hispanics in the U.S., 16.7 percent
of the population. About 45 percent of Hispanic immigrants are
undocumented, compared with 13 percent to 15 percent of Asians.  Hispanic migration growth is declining because of fewer
U.S. jobs due to the recession, an improving Mexican economy,
stronger U.S. border enforcement, and a declining Mexican birth
rate providing more opportunities at home, according to  Mark
Lopez , associate director of the Pew Hispanic Center.  “With the recession in recent years, we’ve seen a decline
in the number of new immigrant arrivals from  Latin America ,
particularly from  Mexico ,” Lopez said. “U.S. jobs is a big
part of the story. Mexico and its economy is a big part of the
story, and enforcement and changing demographics.”  The Asians surveyed -- which included those with Filipino,
Japanese, Chinese, Indian, Vietnamese and Korean ancestry -- are
twice as likely as the U.S. public to approve of the direction
of the country, 43 percent versus 21 percent of the general
public. They also give President  Barack Obama  a 54 percent job-
approval rating, 10 points higher than the public.  Spending Cuts  Asian-Americans align themselves with Democratic efforts to
oppose government spending cuts over Republican calls to rely
solely on reductions in programs to reduce the  budget deficit .  By 55 percent to 36 percent, Asian-Americans say they
prefer a bigger government and more services to a smaller
government and fewer services, the survey shows. Among the
general public, those numbers were reversed, with 39 percent
supporting a bigger government and 52 percent supporting fewer
services.  The survey of 3,511 Asian-Americans was conducted from Jan.
3-March 27. It has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.4
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 