-- Asian Currencies Near Two-Week High on Fed Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-06-19T08:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/asian-currencies-near-two-week-high-on-fed-stimulus-speculation.html
Asian currencies traded near the
highest level in almost two weeks on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will announce fresh stimulus measures to shore up growth
in the world’s largest economy.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will begin a two-day
policy meeting today after data in the past week showed U.S.
retail sales fell for a second month in May and consumer prices
dropped the most in three years. China’s  yuan  and Taiwan’s
dollar were little changed before leaders from the Group of 20
nations finish a two-day meeting in  Mexico  to address Europe’s
debt crisis and the global economic slowdown.  “Any signs that the Fed is trying to provide a bit of
stimulus will be much-wanted relief,” said Vishnu Varathan, a
Singapore-based economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.  The  Singapore dollar  rose 0.2 percent to S$1.2689 per
dollar as of 4:31 p.m. local time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Thailand’s baht appreciated 0.2 percent to 31.42 and
South Korea’s won advanced 0.1 percent to 1,156.45.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, gained 0.1
percent to 114.69. The gauge touched 114.89 yesterday, the
highest level since June 7.  The baht approached the strongest level in almost a month
on speculation exporters are converting overseas profits. A
government report this week may show overseas sales increased
0.65 percent in May from a year earlier after a decline of 3.67
percent the previous month, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Spanish Borrowing Costs  “The baht seems to be getting some support from companies
repatriating overseas profits,” said Tohru Nishihama, an
economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo .
“Sentiment itself remains fragile as  Europe ’s debt problems
still persist.”  The won climbed for a fifth day as foreign investors bought
more of the nation’s shares than they sold for a second day.  “Overseas funds selling the dollar to buy Korean stocks
supported the won, and also there was expectation for further
monetary stimulus by the Fed,” said Lee Jung Hyun, a Seoul-
based currency trader at Industrial Bank of Korea.  Indonesia’s rupiah dropped the most in more than a week
after Spain’s borrowing costs rose, adding to concern Europe’s
debt crisis will worsen and damp appetite for emerging-market
assets. The currency weakened 1 percent to 9,478 per dollar, the
biggest drop since June 7, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg.  Spanish Yields Jump  Spain ’s 10-year yields surged to a euro-era record after a
report showed bad loans jumped in April to the highest since
1994. Greek politicians are beginning a second day of talks to
form a coalition government that can implement austerity
measures tied to a 240 billion euro ($302 billion) bailout.  “The concern has moved from Greece to larger economies
like Spain and Italy, which weighs on the rupiah,” said Nurul Eti Nurbaeti, the head of treasury research at PT Bank Negara
Indonesia in Jakarta. “We see strong dollar demand constantly
as even domestic investors and corporates prefer the dollar over
the rupiah to avoid  currency risk  during uncertain times.”  Elsewhere, India’s rupee dropped 0.3 percent to 56.0850.
The Philippine peso weakened 0.1 percent to 42.292, while
Vietnam’s dong strengthened 0.1 percent to 20,945.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  