-- Most Asian Stocks Drop on Record Spanish Borrowing Costs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-06-19T10:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/asian-stocks-decline-as-spanish-borrowing-costs-surges-to-record.html
Most Asian  stocks  fell, with the
regional benchmark index retreating from a one-month high, as
Spain’s borrowing costs climbed to a euro-area record and
optimism faded that  Greece ’s election result will calm the debt
crisis.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that counts  Europe  as its
largest market, declined 2 percent in Hong Kong. Pacific Basin
Shipping Ltd. slid 6.3 percent after Hong Kong’s biggest
operator of dry-bulk ships predicted a first-half loss. Lynas
Corp. jumped 8.6 percent in Sydney after a Malaysian
parliamentary committee said the Australian miner should be
allowed to start refining rare earths in the Southeast Asian
country once it fulfills and health and safety conditions.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed at 115.77 at
7:52 p.m. in  Tokyo , with about five shares falling for every
four that rose. More than $5 trillion has been erased from
global equities since March amid concern growth is slowing in
the U.S. and  China , and as Europe’s debt crisis intensified.  “We see Europe escalating rather than solving its
problems,” said Tim Riordan, of Parker Asset Management Ltd., a
hedge fund in Sydney that has about $200 million under
management. “The focus is rolling on to Spain, and with bond
yields going over 7 percent, this has been a red flag in the
past. You’re in a bit of a downward spiral and this leads us to
be fairly cautious.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.8 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.3 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang
Seng Index lost 0.1 and China’s Shanghai Composite Index both
slid 0.7 percent. Trading volumes were below the 30-day moving
average across the region, except in  India , according to data
compiled by the Bloomberg News.  Spanish Yields  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.1 percent
today. The gauge added just 0.1 percent yesterday as optimism
about Greece’s attempts to form a coalition government was
tempered by a surge in Spanish bond yields to a euro-era record
of 7.29 percent.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Greece should not be
given more leeway to comply with austerity measures needed to
secure international aid after pro-bailout parties won enough
seats to form a majority in parliament.  Companies that do business in Europe fell as  Spain , which
has asked euro-region governments for as much as 100 billion
euros ($126 billion) to help shore up its banks, reported a jump
in bad loans in April to 8.72 percent of total lending, the
highest since 1994.  Esprit slipped 2 percent to HK$10.04. Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd., which operates ports in Germany and Spain, fell 0.7
percent to HK$66.4 in Hong Kong.  Canon Inc. (7751) , a camera maker that
gets about 31 percent of sales from Europe, dropped 1.2 percent
to 3,200 yen in Tokyo.  G-20 Meeting  Group of 20 chiefs, who began a two-day meeting in  Mexico 
yesterday, focused their response to Europe’s financial crisis
on stabilizing the region’s banks, raising pressure on Merkel to
expand rescue measures as contagion engulfed Spain.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP) , which lost 10 percent through
yesterday from this year’s highest level in February, traded at
1.2 times book value, compared with 2.1 times for the S&P 500
and 1.3 times for the Stoxx 600, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A number below one means companies can be bought for
less than value of their assets.  Pacific Basin dropped 6.3 percent to HK$3.25. The shipping
company predicted a first-half loss after writing down the value
of its vehicle-carrying fleet by $190 million as a global glut
of vessels and the European debt crisis damped rates.  Tsingtao, Fairfax  Tsingtao Brewery Co. slumped 7.8 percent to HK$46.60 in
Hong Kong, the most since May 2010, as billionaire investor Chen
Fa Shu agreed to sell HK$1.5 billion ($193 million) in shares of
the Chinese beer maker at a discount.  Fairfax Media Ltd. sank 8.5 percent in Sydney amid reports
 Gina Rinehart ,  Asia ’s richest woman, is seeking three seats on
the publisher’s board and power to fire editors. The company
closed at 59.5 Australian cents in Sydney. Rinehart yesterday
raised her stake in the publisher of the Sydney Morning Herald
to 19 percent, the Herald reported today.  “What this will do is destroy the credibility of the
Fairfax mastheads,” Communications Minister Stephen Conroy told
reporters yesterday. “And if you were to start turning it into
just a pro-mining industry gazette, well, I don’t think you
would say the rest of the shareholders in Fairfax would be too
excited.”  Among stocks that rose, Lynas jumped 8.6 percent to
A$1.105. Radiation exposure at the world’s biggest rare-earths
refining facility it is building in  Malaysia  is “low and
safe,” a committee headed by Higher Education Minister Khaled
Noordin said in a report tabled in parliament today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  