-- May Tells U.K. Businesses Not to Complain About Visa Rules
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-06-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/may-tells-u-k-businesses-to-stop-complaining-about-visa-rules.html
U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May said
businesses that complain about visa rules are damaging Britain’s
economic prospects.  Lawyers have fielded a flood of questions from
 international firms  following a shakeup of visa rules by the
coalition government. Changes include a five-year cap on how
long employees who moved to the U.K. under the Intra Company
Transfer system can stay and the removal of their right to
settle permanently.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  was tackled on the subject
during a visit to  Chicago  last month. At a breakfast with
business leaders, Jean Spence, executive vice president at  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KFT) , said the rules were stopping her company bringing
people to Britain. He replied that Britain needed to control
immigration and had 5 million people on out-of-work welfare.  At a lunch for journalists in London yesterday, May said
there was “headroom for business to get people into the U.K.”
She said companies were “sending a negative message. They
should be doing their bit to show we’re open for business as
well.”  May is in charge of meeting Cameron’s pledge to bring
annual net migration below 100,000 from about 250,000 currently.
Yesterday she described that as an “aim.”  As well as business visas, she has tightened rules for
people bringing in family. She denied that these moves are in
conflict with promoting economic growth.  ‘Devastating Trend’  A November report commissioned by the  City of London
Corporation  found a lack of clarity about immigration prompting
managers to postpone expansion and growth plans. It also said
some companies had lost teams to other countries, and had
reduced their U.K. headcount, an “early sign of a silent and
potentially devastating trend for the recovering U.K. economy.”  The  Home Office  maintains the Intra Company Transfer route
is a temporary solution for companies needing a particular skill
set from overseas, while permanent jobs should be filled
locally. If a U.K. applicant can’t be found, an overseas
employee can use the Tier 2 general visa route, which allows for
settlement after five years.  “We didn’t put a limit on intra-company transfers,” May
said. “Business said to us the things that mattered are intra-
company transfers and Tier 2 visas. The number of Tier 2 visas
that were given so far have been under the limit that was set.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  