-- Baer in Talks With Bank of America on Non-U.S. Wealth Unit
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   D y l a n   G r i f f i t h s
-- 2012-06-19T13:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/baer-bank-of-america-in-talks-on-merrill-non-u-s-wealth-unit.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the Swiss
wealth manager established in 1890, is in talks with  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  about acquiring its Merrill Lynch wealth
management business outside the U.S.  “Given the early stage of these discussions, the outcome
is entirely open,” Zurich-based Baer said today in a statement.
Jan Vonder Muehll, a spokesman for bank, declined to elaborate.  The Bank of America wealth unit may fetch about $2 billion,
said a person familiar with the matter who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. Sara-Louise Boyes, a
London-based spokeswoman for Merrill Lynch, declined to comment
on whether any part of the business is for sale.  Baer, a private bank with 178 billion Swiss francs ($187
billion) of assets under management, is seeking acquisitions and
building branch networks in  emerging markets  and  Europe  as a
crackdown on  tax evasion  pushes customers to repatriate funds
from cross-border accounts. Baer, which bought ING Groep NV’s
Geneva-based wealth business in 2009, is also seeking purchases
to compete with larger rivals  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse Group AG.  Julius Baer  gained  55 centimes, or 1.7 percent, to 33.07
francs by 1:23 p.m. in Swiss trading, giving the company a
market value of 6.8 billion francs.  Excess Capital  The bank has about 1 billion francs in excess capital and
may have to raise new equity to buy the unit, Christian Stark, a
Zurich-based analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA, wrote in a
note to clients today. The transaction may require a maximum
capital increase in the range of one new share for two existing
shares, he said.  “We expect mergers and acquisitions in the industry to
accelerate and  Julius Baer  should be a prudent participant in
this,” Stark said by phone today.  Baer said last month that revenue earned on assets under
management fell in the first four months of this year as
clients’ appetite for risk remained “subdued.” The private
bank’s  gross margin , a measure of profitability, was “slightly
below” 100 basis points over the period, compared with 105
basis points in  2011 . A basis point is one-hundredth of a
percentage point.  Bank of America , based in Charlotte, North Carolina, sought
first-round offers for the wealth-management units outside the
U.S. in April, a person with direct knowledge of the process
said at the time. The bank’s non-U.S. wealth-management units
operate in Europe,  Asia , the  Middle East  and  Latin America .  ‘Consolidation Wave’  About two-thirds of the Merrill Lynch assets for sale are
in Asia and Latin America, according to Stark. Adding clients in
these areas would support Baer’s emerging-market growth
strategy, while incorporating Merrill Lynch’s European business
could help the Swiss firm improve cost efficiencies, he said.  Julius Baer’s bid last year to buy a controlling stake in
 Basel , Switzerland-based Bank Sarasin & Cie. was trumped by an
offer from Safra Group. Chief Executive Officer  Boris Collardi 
said April 11 at the firm’s annual shareholder meeting he is
still interested in making acquisitions as the Swiss wealth-
management industry faces a “consolidation wave.”  Failure to secure the Sarasin deal and disappointing
corporate announcements on 2011 earnings and profitability in
the four months through April led Baer’s stock to underperform
other European banks by 12 percent this year, Robert Murphy, a
London-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a June 18
note to clients.  Baer has  declined  9.8 percent this year, compared with a
1.4 percent  advance  in UBS.  Focusing on acquisitions in  Switzerland  to reduce costs and
building partnerships in growth regions would have “a better
strategic rationale,” he said.  Baer bought a 30 percent stake in Brazilian wealth manager
GPS Investimentos Financeiros e Participacoes SA and acquired
Macquarie Group Ltd.’s Asian private-client business last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dylan Griffiths in Geneva  at 
 dgriffiths1@bloomberg.net ;
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  