-- Banks Worry As Breakup Talk Revived After JPMorgan Loss
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-06-19T00:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/banks-worry-as-breakup-talk-revived-after-jpmorgan-loss.html
Move over too-big-to-fail. Here
comes too-big-to-manage.  Congress’s inquiry into  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion
trading loss has reignited the question of whether a bank can
grow too large and complex for its own executives to oversee.
The banking industry is taking notice that a move to cap the
size of Wall Street firms is gaining traction on Capitol Hill.  “There seems to be growing interest in some type of
breakup proposal,” said Sheila Bair, a former chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  The concept is expected to arise today as JPMorgan Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  testifies before the House
Financial Services Committee on the trading debacle. Last week
he told the Senate that the losses, which carved about $23
billion from the bank’s market value, were due to a poor
investing strategy coupled with management failures.  Senator  Sherrod Brown  seized on that admission.  “It appears executives and regulators simply can’t
understand what is happening in all these offices at once,” the
Ohio Democrat said during the June 13 hearing. “It demonstrates
to me that too-big-to-fail banks are, frankly, too-big-to-manage
and too-big-to-regulate.”  While bank lobbyists say they are still most concerned that
JPMorgan’s trading loss could prompt regulators to write a
stronger U.S. rule against proprietary trading, they are also
closely monitoring the emerging talk about too-big-to-manage.  Shifting Debate  The financial industry fears the idea could unite Democrats
pushing to downsize banks with Republicans who think the 2010
Dodd-Frank law should be repealed because it offers special
regulatory protections to “systemically important” firms.
Shifting the terms of the political debate from the more
amorphous phrase of too-big-to-fail may make the efforts easier
to explain to the public, said the lobbyists, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the discussions are private.  Both Democrats and Republicans are weighing versions of
too-big-to-manage proposals. Brown has sponsored a bill that
would cap the size of what he calls “mega-banks.” FDIC member
 Thomas Hoenig  has been promoting a modern version of the 1933
 Glass-Steagall Act , aimed at separating more risky investment
banking operations from units handling deposits.  In his Senate testimony last week, Dimon defended the
largest banks, saying they are needed to provide services to
multinational corporations, including lines of credit that can
reach billions of dollars. He also noted that JPMorgan’s size
helped it weather the 2008 economic collapse.  Status Deflated  “Our diversification was a source of strength in the
crisis,” Dimon said. “It was not a source of weakness.”  Still, with JPMorgan facing federal investigations by the
 Justice Department , the Securities and Exchange Commission and
other agencies over the loss, Dimon’s status as an industry
spokesman on over-regulation has been somewhat deflated. None of
the chief executives of the other major banks --  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and  Bank of America Corp . --
have been as vocal in the public policy arena.  Richard Fisher , a Democrat who is president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of Dallas, has been a vocal supporter of curtailing
Wall Street’s biggest firms. He wrote in the regional bank’s
2011 annual report in March that “downsizing the behemoths over
time into institutions that can be prudently managed and
regulated across borders is the appropriate policy response.”  Bair, who helmed the FDIC through the credit crisis, has
started a group of business executives and former regulators and
senators to counter the big bank lobby in Washington. While her
Systemic Risk Council hasn’t come to a policy position on
breaking up the largest banks, it’s likely to consider it.  ‘Structural Solutions’  “It’s an important question,” said  Harvey Goldschmid , a
former Democratic SEC commissioner who is on the council. “If
financial institutions have become too-big-to-fail, too-big-to-
manage, and too-big-to-regulate, then wisdom would be on the
side of thinking about structural solutions.”  Not everyone agrees.  Peter Wallison , a fellow at the  American Enterprise
Institute  and a former general counsel of the Treasury
Department, said that nobody really knows how big is too big.  “Shall we size banks so only stupid people can manage
them, or should we be allowed to size banks so smart people can
manage them?” asked Wallison. “There isn’t a lot of thought
given to this, it is just a lot of chatter.”  On  Capitol Hill , lawmakers acknowledge that new legislation
that would transform the banking system is still far from
passing, partly because of the looming November election and
partly because the country is still digesting the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul passed less than two years ago.  Bipartisan Discussion  Still, the JPMorgan loss has spurred lawmakers in both
parties to confront anew the issue of complexity in the banking
system. And the discussion is more bipartisan than in the past.  “There hasn’t been any attempt to coalesce these different
factions and ideas into a single solution,” Representative  John
Campbell  said in an interview. “This could be the type of event
that starts the discussions.”  Campbell, of California, is among a group of Republicans
drawing attention to the use of increased capital standards as a
market-based way of shrinking the largest banks. Senators
 Richard Shelby  of Alabama and  David Vitter  of Louisiana also
back pumping up  capital requirements  for the largest banks,
forcing them to either shrink or pay more for their size.  On the other side of the aisle, Representative  Brad Miller ,
who introduced the House version of Brown’s bill, said he would
consider merging his legislation with Hoenig’s proposal for a
version of Glass-Steagall.  Uphill Battle  “There are probably ways you could take bits and pieces of
his proposal and of my proposal and combine the two to make
banks smaller and less complicated,” Miller, a North Carolina
Democrat, said in a telephone interview.  While pushing such a proposal through Congress would be an
uphill battle against the still-considerable influence of the
financial industry, Miller said, more revelations like
JPMorgan’s or another banking crisis could tip the balance.  “There is a great deal of public support for breaking up
the big banks,” said Miller, who said he got a positive
response when he polled constituents during his 2010 campaign.
“It would not be a problem from the American people, it would
be entirely from the Washington political establishment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 