-- Barbecue More Ready Than Radios for Convention Security
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-06-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/barbecue-more-ready-than-radios-for-convention-security.html
The official  barbecue sauces  have
been chosen for the Democratic National Convention in  Charlotte ,
North Carolina, in September. The 3,500 stock-car sponsorships,
starting at $5, are sold.  Plans for an advanced communications network to protect
President  Barack Obama  and 35,000 other visitors are another
story.  U.S. regulators under Obama on May 11 froze funds Charlotte
officials were counting on to start a new local public-safety
radio network in time for the convention. The freeze marked more
turmoil in a decade-long struggle to construct a nationwide
emergency-communications system that is to cost $7 billion or
more.  “We were on track,” Steve Koman, a program manager for
Charlotte’s network, said in an interview. “If you were to
design a way to hit us at the worst possible time, this would be
it.”  The nationwide network, mandated by Congress in February,
is to replace a balkanized patchwork of emergency radios blamed
for lethal miscommunication during the terrorist attacks of
September 11, when firefighters died after failing to hear
orders to evacuate the collapsing Twin Towers.  Public-safety agencies haven’t put in place a standard that
will allow any vendor’s equipment to be used in first-responder
networks, in the way that Apple Inc., Samsung Electronics Co.
and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  can sell mobile phones for use on networks run by
 Verizon Wireless , AT&T Inc. and Sprint Nextel Corp., according
to a 2010 letter to Congress from Federal Communications
Chairman Chairman  Julius Genachowski .  Incompatibility Concerns  Charlotte’s program and six other regional projects
authorized in 2010 were frozen to prevent them from buying
equipment incompatible with the eventual national network,
according to Lawrence Strickling, administrator of the  National
Telecommunications and Information Administration , who ordered
the freeze.  “He’s right,”  Roger Entner , an analyst with Recon
Analytics LLC in Dedham,  Massachusetts , said in an interview.
Buying gear now risks using taxpayer money on equipment that
will become obsolete within years, Entner said.  Winning localities can’t spend money on radio equipment,
and may be able to spend in other categories, the agency said as
it froze funds. The agency said localities could propose revisions
that may provide ``potential paths forward'' for continuing with
the projects.  The Obama administration by August must choose a board to
design and run the new network.  “I don’t know what decisions they’re going to make,”
Strickling told Representative  Joe Barton  in a May 16
congressional hearing.  Motorola’s Ire  Twenty-one projects, including Charlotte’s, in 2010
received permission to proceed with trial networks. The NTIA
awarded grants totaling $382.5 million, including $16.7 million
to Charlotte, and $341 million remained unspent at the beginning
of May, according to a fact sheet  distributed  by the agency.  The administration’s decision drew the ire of  Motorola
Solutions Inc. (MSI) , which is competing to sell equipment in
Charlotte with  Harris Corp. (HRS) , device maker Calamp Corp. and
Cassidian Communications Inc., a unit of European Aeronautic,
Defence and Space Co. Motorola received its own $51 million
grant to build an advanced emergency radio system in the San
Francisco area.  “There is no basis for not moving forward,”  Greg Brown ,
Motorola’s chief executive officer, said in a May 23 letter to
Strickling. Motorola will pursue contracts for the nationwide
network, Brown said March 9 in an interview.  Stranded Expense  Last year Harris told an  investors conference  that
Motorola, based in Schaumburg,  Illinois , has 65 percent of the
market for land-mobile radios used by utilities and public
agencies in the traditional networks that offer secure voice
communications.Tom McMahon, a Washington-based spokesman for
Motorola, in an e-mail said he had no estimate of the market
share.  Barton, a Texas Republican, said he wanted radio projects
to go ahead in Mississippi and Houston, both places where
Motorola won a contract.  The reversal by Strickling’s agency may strand grant funds
in partly built networks, Jamie Barnett, a former chief of the
FCC’s public safety bureau, said in an interview.  “There is no technological reason why the recipients’
networks can’t be integrated seamlessly,” said Barnett, senior
vice president at the non-partisan Potomac Institute for Policy
Studies, an Arlington, Virginia-based group that examines
technology and government.  Earthquakes, Fires  The national network and the regional prototypes are to
offer new capabilities to emergency workers shackled to voice-
only public safety networks, or renting time on high-speed
commercial services that may fail under stress. Firefighters
will be able to see aerial views of buildings, police can tap
into databases from their squad cars, and medical technicians
can transmit patient’s vital signs.  Congress grappled for years with how to link emergency
workers from different services and localities. One issue was
whether to auction the airwaves to commercial bidders that would
share space with emergency workers, or to hand over frequencies
to public safety. In February Congress allotted spectrum to
public-safety users and directed $7 billion toward the
nationwide network.  The San Francisco area, prone to earthquakes and home to
the Golden Gate Bridge that carries 9 million people annually,
“cannot wait for two years or longer” as the national network
is built, the regional authority said in comments filed June 8
at the FCC.  “Fire season is in full swing” and an advanced system
would help map blazes, Texas authorities said in a  June 1
filing .  Bipartisan Criticism  Getting Charlotte’s system online is critical to
preparations for the Democratic convention,  North Carolina 
Governor Beverly Eaves Perdue, a Democrat, said in a June 6
letter to Strickling. She asked him to rescind the freeze, as
did Representative Sue Myrick, a Republican who represents parts
of Mecklenburg County that would share the network.  “I cannot understand” a decision to halt deployment as
the expected start date of June 26 neared, Myrick said in a June
5 letter to Strickling.  The city of Charlotte isn’t concerned about any impact on
event security, Kimberly McMillan, a spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail.  ``NTIA is engaged in ongoing discussions with each grantee,
including Charlotte, on how best its project can move forward,''
Anna Gomez, a deputy assistant secretary at the Commerce
Department, which includes Strickling's agency, said in an e-mail.  Congestion Worries  Charlotte may be able to begin service with part of its new
network, which would at least give advanced coverage in areas
near the city’s convention center, said Koman, the project
manager.  Officers elsewhere who want advanced services such as
access to license-plate databases will rely on commercial
networks that risk a familiar frustration, Koman said.  “We know from other events that these networks tend to get
very congested, and slow down for events like this,” Koman
said. “We may not have coverage all the time at speeds we’d
like to have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  