-- Barnes & Noble Falls After Quarterly Sales Trail Estimate
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-06-19T21:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/barnes-noble-falls-after-quarterly-sales-trail-estimate.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the largest
U.S. bookstore chain, declined to the lowest price since April
after posting fourth-quarter revenue that trailed analysts’
estimates.  The shares  fell  4 percent to $14.63 at the close in New
York. Barnes & Noble has risen 1 percent this year.  Fourth-quarter sales rose 0.4 percent to $1.38 billion, the
New York-based company said today in a statement. Analysts
projected $1.47 billion, the average of five estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Even though the numbers look slightly worse than
consensus, I don’t think the surprise is that the numbers
weren’t that good,” said  John Tinker , an analyst with Maxim
Group LLC. “The surprise is that they weren’t far worse.”  Revenue from the Nook unit, including e-readers, digital
content and accessories, fell 10 percent to $164 million in the
quarter amid lower average selling prices and a decline in
device sales.  Demand for black and white e-readers, which have been
available for almost four years, has started to decline as
consumers snap up colored tablets made by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
Apple Inc., said Peter Wahlstrom, an analyst for Morningstar
Inc. in  Chicago .  “There is a perpetual cycle of having to invest in the
next device,” Wahlstrom said. “If consumers want a new device
every 12 to 18 months, that is a big cost for the company.”  Losing Money  He said that Barnes & Noble is still a distant third to
Apple and Amazon.  Barnes & Noble has been losing money for the past two years
as it spends on advertising, product development and in-store
upgrades to expand the Nook business as more consumers shift to
electronic books.  The company is working to boost sales in the Nook unit by
expanding outside the U.S. through a partnership with Microsoft
Corp. that was announced in April after Barnes & Noble had
considered separating the Nook business into its own public
company.  The retailer will provide the content and digital-bookstore
services through the Microsoft Windows 8 platform into 10
markets within the next 12 months “and then expand beyond
that,” Chief Executive Officer William Lynch said today on a
conference call.  Tinker said that Barnes & Noble isn’t big enough to absorb
the research and development of the Nook, and that its
partnership with Microsoft may help scale up production. Tinker
rates the company a buy.  Microsoft Investment  Microsoft is investing $300 million for an 18 percent stake
in a Barnes & Noble subsidiary that combines its Nook and
college bookstore units. The companies plan to collaborate on a
Nook application and software for Windows, the latest version of
Microsoft’s operating system that will be released later this
year.  “Apple and Amazon have a much larger scale in the colored
tablet market,” Wahlstrom said. “That’s why you see them
jumping into the sack with Microsoft.”  The net loss in the quarter ended April 28 totaled $57.7
million, or $1.08 a share, compared with $59.4 million, or
$1.04, a year earlier, the company said. Excluding some items,
the loss was 98 cents a share.  Comparable-store sales at the chain’s more than 680 stores
rose 4.5 percent. That came after declines in 15 of the past 17
quarters dating back to 2008.  The company said it expects retail comparable bookstore
sales to decline in the low-to-mid single percentage points in
fiscal 2013 after the boost in sales it received from the
Borders liquidation in fiscal 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  