-- Barroso Blaming U.S. for Euro Crisis ‘Foolish,’ Investors Say
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-06-19T17:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/barroso-blaming-u-s-for-euro-crisis-foolish-investors-say.html
European Commission  President  Jose Manuel Barroso ’s claim that the U.S. is to blame for Europe’s
debt crisis is “foolish” and further undermines confidence in
the region, investors managing more than $400 billion said.  “This crisis did not originate in Europe, this crisis
originated in  North America ,” Barroso told a press conference
at the Group of 20 meeting in Mexico late yesterday. “Our
financial sector was contaminated by, how can I put it,
unorthodox practices from some sectors of the financial
markets.”  Leaders including U.S. President  Barack Obama  and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  are meeting in Mexico to attempt to fix
the European debt crisis that’s threatening to plunge the global
economy back into recession. They gathered after  Spain ’s
borrowing costs soared to a euro-era record and elections in
Greece failed to damp the threat of contagion.  “What is the point of this statement?” asked Yves Bonzon,
chief investment officer of Geneva-based  Pictet & Cie , which
manages $387 billion. “It is shocking. What’s the contribution
to improving the situation? Nil. If anything he’s contributing
to destroying further what’s left of confidence in the system.”  G-20 leaders focused on steps to stabilize euro-area banks,
raising pressure on German Chancellor Angela Merkel to expand
rescue measures. While Merkel rejects pooling euro-area
countries’ debt or boosting deficit spending, Obama has blamed
the financial crisis in the world’s second-biggest economic bloc
for slowing U.S. employment growth.  ‘Reflects Badly’  “The  Federal Reserve  did not cause Greece’s indebtedness,
Italy’s indebtedness or the Spanish banking problem,” said  Mike Lenhoff , chief strategist at London-based  Brewin Dolphin
Holdings Plc (BRW) , which manages 25 billion pounds ($39 billion).
“How could he say that? It looks a bit foolish and reflects
badly on him.”  In blaming the U.S. for Europe’s crisis, Barroso risks
reigniting old tensions. In 2009, then French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  blamed the U.S. and U.K.-led economic model for the
financial crisis triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008.  “The crisis has come from the drift of an Anglo-Saxon
model,” he said in December 2009. “For the world, I want the
victory of the European model, which has nothing to do with the
excess of financial capitalism.”  Bonzon disagrees. “The extent of the bad assets in Spanish
banks is a multiple of what the problem was in the U.S.,” he
said.  The pressure of fixing a crisis that has been steadily
growing for three years may be now starting to show in Barroso,
according to Lenhoff. Barroso, 56, became president of the
European Commission in 2004 after stepping down as prime
minister of  Portugal . The Commission is the European Union body
that designs laws for the region.  “If he was to look at his comments in the cool light of
day he may realize that was a silly thing to say,” Lenhoff
said. “It’s a reflection of the pressures everyone is under
more than anything else.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  