-- Baucus Urges Deficit Plan With Tax Increase, Spending Cut
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-19T20:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/baucus-urges-deficit-plan-with-tax-increase-spending-cut.html
The “only way forward” for the
U.S. to reduce the long-term  budget deficit  is through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases, said Senator  Max Baucus , chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.  Baucus, a Montana Democrat, said at a hearing in Washington
today that Congress should start working to avoid the fiscal
cliff of automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled for
the end of the year and implement more gradual deficit-reduction
efforts.  “We don’t just face a spending problem or a revenue
problem,” said Baucus, whose panel has jurisdiction over the
 tax code , Social Security and Medicare. “It’s both.”  If Congress doesn’t act by the end of the year, taxes will
increase for income, estates,  capital gains  and dividends.
Automatic cuts to defense and non-defense programs will take
effect in January. The  Congressional Budget Office  has warned
that inaction could lead to a recession in the first half of
2013.  Former Senator Pete Domenici, a New Mexico Republican, and
former CBO director  Alice Rivlin , who also was head of the
Office of Management and Budget in President  Bill Clinton ’s
administration, testified today on their bipartisan deficit-
reduction plan. The plan, created through the Bipartisan Policy
Center in Washington, includes tax and spending changes to lower
the  budget deficit .  Raising Revenue  “You can’t get there any other way except by reforming
entitlements and raising more revenue from a reformed tax
system,” Rivlin said.  With the fiscal cliff coming Dec. 31, Rivlin said, Congress
should postpone the tax increases with a requirement to fold the
issue into a broader tax system overhaul. Republicans have
called for extending all of the expiring tax cuts temporarily
and restructuring the tax code. President  Barack Obama  wants to
let the tax cuts for the top 2 percent of taxpayers expire at
the end of the year.  Baucus questioned how a short-term extension wouldn’t lead
to further extensions and how an extension could be paired with
a credible longer-term effort.  “I’m just trying to determine what that process is,” he
said.  Baucus also said he disagrees with some elements of the
Domenici-Rivlin plan, including changes to Social Security,
Medicare and Medicaid, along with the elimination of tax breaks
for higher education.  Medicare Benefits  Rivlin emphasized that their plan doesn’t end the guarantee
for Medicare benefits. It would allow future recipients to
choose a private plan with government-subsidized premiums. The
plan has been changed to remove a value-added tax that was in
the initial proposal.  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the
committee, said Obama’s lack of leadership on the issue has been
“remarkable.”  “All we hear are vague principles, with the only
definitive characteristic being more redistribution,” Hatch
said.  Republicans, including Hatch, maintain that tax increases
shouldn’t be considered as part of deficit reduction.  Domenici said Democrats would have to accept cuts to
entitlement programs and Republicans would have to accept more
revenue.  “This is not a normal time,” Domenici said. “We cannot
allow ideological purity, in my opinion, to stand in the way of
what’s right for our country.”  A co-chairman of Obama’s deficit-reduction commission,
Erskine Bowles, was meeting with senators of both parties in the
Capitol today. Bowles, a Democrat, was chief of staff to
Clinton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  