-- Berkshire Hits 13-Month High as BofA, Wells Fargo Gain
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-06-19T20:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/berkshire-hits-13-month-high-as-bofa-wells-fargo-gain.html
Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway
Inc., the largest investor in  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and holder of
preferred shares in  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , climbed to a  13-month
high (BRK/A)  as the lenders rallied.  Berkshire Class A shares rose about 1 percent to $124,440
at 4 p.m. in New York, the highest value since April 2011. San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender,
gained 1.5 percent while Bank of America advanced 4.5 percent.  Buffett, 81, said last month that U.S. banks have
“liquidity coming out of their ears” and are in better shape
than their rivals in Europe, which is struggling with a debt
crisis. His Omaha, Nebraska-based firm has been adding to
holdings of Wells Fargo and in 2011 it invested $5 billion in
Bank of America in exchange for preferred shares and warrants.  Berkshire gets a “bump when you see risk rally” for
financial stocks,  Tom Lewandowski , an analyst at Edward Jones &
Co. in  St. Louis , said in a phone interview. For investors “who
can deal with the succession risk that comes along with  Warren
Buffett  in owning Berkshire shares, I think it’s still a good
long-term investment opportunity,” he said.  Buffett, who built Berkshire from a failing textile maker
into a company valued at more than $200 billion that sells
products from insurance to ice cream, is preparing for his
eventual departure. He has said that his son Howard, a Berkshire
director, would guard the culture as non-executive chairman,
while the board has picked his successor as CEO along with two
backups. The candidates haven’t been publicly identified.  Portfolio Managers  Oversight of the investment portfolio will fall to Ted Weschler and Todd Combs, former hedge-fund managers whom Buffett
hired in the past two years. Berkshire hit a “home run” with
both and may add another  money manager  to help, Buffett said at
the company’s annual meeting on May 5.  Berkshire’s  stock portfolio , which also includes stakes in
International Business Machines Corp. and Coca-Cola Co., was
valued at $89.1 billion at the end of March. Buffett still
oversees the largest investments, while Weschler and Combs
manage $2.75 billion each, Buffett said at the meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  