-- Biden Says Romney Policies Would Eviscerate Middle Class
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-06-19T20:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/biden-says-romney-policies-would-eviscerate-middle-class.html
U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  warned
the nation’s largest union of government workers that  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, has a
“fundamentally different value set” and would gut spending for
nurses, firefighters and other public-sector jobs  Speaking before the  American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees  biannual convention in  Los Angeles ,
Biden said Romney would be emboldened by a failed union-led
drive to recall Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  and push for
cuts in funding for the public sector to pay for tax reductions.
The union is facing a “full-blown assault,” he said.  Biden said a  federal budget  plan proposed by Representative
 Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican and chairman of the House
Budget Committee would lead to “draconian” cuts that would
reduce services for the middle class while putting union members
out of work. Romney has endorsed the Ryan plan.  “Romney and his friends think if you just lavish more tax
cuts on them and eviscerate the poor and the middle class,
somehow that’s going to grow the economy,” Biden told the 5,000
union representatives.  AFSCME, with 1.6 million members, has already endorsed
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election, though it publicly
disagreed with him when he dropped the public option from his
health care overhaul and extended George W. Bush-era tax cuts.  Bright Spot  The government workforce has been one of the few bright
spots for organized labor in recent years. Public-sector workers
became the majority of union members in the U.S. for the first
time in 2009. Their jobs and benefits would be threatened by a
Romney win, Biden said.  “Romney, Ryan and the new Republicans in Congress have
shown us their budget,” Biden said. “It’s clear they don’t
value you very much.”  Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul said Biden is pushing failed
policies that have not created jobs or improved the economy.
Fewer regulations would encourage job growth, she said,  “We have tried President Obama’s big-government policies
for more than three years and they have not worked,” Saul said
in an e-mail. “We need a new direction.”  Biden was introduced by  Gerald McEntee , the president of
AFSCME, who called the Obama-Biden ticket “the only choice for
the 99 percent of us.”  Obama and Biden “will raise hell to make sure the people
right here in this room get a fair shot,” said McEntee, who is
retiring after 31 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  