-- Slim Family Still Considering Options for Its YPF Stake
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-19T13:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/billionaire-slim-family-looks-to-build-from-argentina-to-austria.html
Carlos Slim , the world’s richest
person, hasn’t decided whether he intends to keep the stake in
 YPF SA (YPFD)  that has made him the fourth-largest shareholder in the
Argentine oil producer, his eldest son said.  “It was something that came up, not planned,” Carlos Slim Domit, the 45-year-old co-chairman of  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , said in
an interview in Los Cabos, Mexico. “It’s a thing that happened,
so we’re evaluating.”  Slim’s bank and a separate investment vehicle control 32.9
million of the Buenos Aires-based company’s Class D shares, or
an 8.4 percent stake worth $375 million, YPF disclosed last week
in a filing. The billionaire’s bank Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB
was among financial groups that received YPF shares as
collateral after a default, Slim Domit said. The default was by
the Petersen Group, run by  Argentina ’s Eskenazi family,
according to the filing.  YPF has soared since Slim’s stake was disclosed, climbing
11 percent over the past three days to 75.5 pesos in  Buenos
Aires  yesterday. Argentina seized 51 percent of YPF from Madrid-
based Repsol SA in April as President  Cristina Fernandez de
Kirchner  seeks to halt declining oil output and stem fuel
imports. The Eskenazi-owned Petersen Group had used YPF
dividends to meet obligations until defaulting in May on a $1
billion loan that used a YPF stake for collateral.  Slim, 72, has been dabbling in oil investments for years,
including stakes in oil services company Bronco Drilling Co. in
2008 and Allis-Chalmers Energy Inc. in 2007. Both companies were
later acquired.  Infrastructure Investments  Slim Domit said his father prefers placing his bets on
infrastructure, a philosophy that colors his investments from
YPF to phone carrier  Telekom Austria AG. (TKA)   “We try to put it in a very simple way: We are committed
to develop physical structure, physical capital, human
capital,” he said. “It’s about development and continuous
efficiency.”  The Slims’ strategy has led them on a wild ride in the past
month, with an unrequited overture to the former Dutch phone
monopoly, a deal to invest in Austria’s communications market,
and the YPF stake that fell into their laps, Slim Domit said.
The family is confident about its investments in  Europe , even as
the foray has sent shares of is wireless company, America Movil,
plummeting, Slim Domit said.  The elder Slim’s fortune has climbed 11 percent to $68.1
billion this year, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index . About 60 percent of that comes from a controlling stake
in  America Movil , the largest phone carrier in the Western
Hemisphere by subscribers. The rest is from a collection of
mining, banking, retail, construction and other assets.  Oil Services  The billionaire’s holding company Grupo Carso SAB, of which
Slim Domit is chairman, has an oil services unit which counts
 Petroleos Mexicanos  as its client. The unit, which had sales of
3.1 billion Mexican pesos ($223 million) last year, announced it
won a $205 million contract last week to provide three offshore
platforms for Pemex, as the Mexican state-owned producer is
known.  “Our activity has been more related to building oil
platforms, building big-scale infrastructure projects,” Slim
Domit said. “Usually this company has been very strong and very
good for doing capital goods. We’re more in the building than in
other things.”  America Movil is also an investor in infrastructure,
spending more than $9 billion this year, with a similar amount
budgeted for the next two years, to improve its network across
 Latin America . Now it aims to meld its strategy with its two
European investment targets.  Netherlands, Austria  The carrier announced a $3.4 billion bid last month to
increase its stake in The Hague, Netherlands-based Royal  KPN NV (KPN) 
to as much as 28 percent. The wireless carrier had 8.5 percent
of KPN as of yesterday.  America Movil agreed last week to buy a 21 percent stake in
 Telekom Austria  AG from investor Ronny Pecik. Slim’s wireless
company purchased 5 percent of the shares and will acquire 16
percent later this year after regulatory approval.  While Austria’s government, Telekom Austria’s largest
shareholder, endorsed Slim’s investment, KPN’s management has
said Slim’s offer is too low. The KPN offer concludes June 27.  “These are companies with very strong potential to develop
and grow, and we can put together good synergies,” Slim Domit
said. “To try to buy the company and get responsibility for
operations is not our goal. It’s more in supporting the
companies to grow.”  America Movil closed yesterday at 17.16 pesos, down 8
percent since the company announced its KPN investment on May 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  Mexico  City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  