-- Billionaire Catching Wal-Mart Brazil as Cencosud Surges
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-06-20T16:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/billionaire-catching-wal-mart-in-brazil-as-cencosud-quadruples.html
On four separate occasions last
year, Horst Paulmann, the billionaire supermarket mogul who
controls Santiago-based  Cencosud SA (CENCOSUD) , sat down with members of
the Cunha family of  Rio de Janeiro  and regaled them with stories
of his modest beginnings and immigrant roots.  It was a narrative that resonated with the family’s
patriarch, Joaquim Cunha, another supermarket baron who himself
had emigrated from  Portugal  to Brazil as a teenager in the
1950s. His daughter Andrea gave details of the talks in an
interview at her family’s office in Rio’s Barra da Tijuca
neighborhood on June 1.  Paulmann, 77, wanted to persuade the Cunhas to sell him
their supermarket chain for 875 million reais ($431 million),
rather than take a higher offer from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  By the
end of the fourth meeting, put off by Wal-Mart’s habit of
sending new faces for each stage of the talks, the Cunhas had
made their decision.  “The contact with Cencosud was much more pleasant than
with Wal-Mart,” said Andrea, 34, who was chief executive of
Prezunic Comercial Ltda. before the November sale. “My father
is very similar to Horst Paulmann. His love is supermarkets. It
was a meeting of two people with similar histories.”  Wal-Mart declined to comment on the talks via e-mail.  Investor Meetings  The acquisition -- Cencosud’s fifth of a Brazilian
supermarket chain in as many years -- is helping Paulmann close
the gap on Wal-Mart and other rivals in the region’s biggest
economy. Now the German-born entrepreneur, who has overseen a
fourfold  jump  in Cencosud’s shares since its public offering in
2004, is looking to raise more than $1 billion to reduce debt
and continue his expansion in Latin American.  With JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG among his advisers,
Paulmann has been meeting with investors in the U.S., Europe and
 Asia  this month, touting his ability to navigate a global
slowdown and deliver earnings growth from a company cobbled
together from at least 16 acquisitions in the past decade. He’s
the most-active deal maker in Latin American retail, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Paulmann’s road trip is part of a plan to sell as many as
243 million shares in a primary offering that would be worth 678
billion pesos ($1.4 billion) at its closing price on June 19. As
much as $745 million will be used to pay debt and $480 million
to buy a 39 percent stake in its Jumbo Retail Argentina SA unit
from UBS AG, according to a June 13 notice in  Chile ’s El
Mercurio newspaper.  Opening Bell  Paulmann is scheduled to ring the opening bell at the  New
York  Stock Exchange June 22, a Cencosud official, who refused to
be named citing company policy, said June 18.  Under Paulmann’s command, what began as a family-run
restaurant has turned into a $16 billion retail empire with 726
supermarkets, 81 home-improvement stores, 74 department stores
and 25 shopping malls spanning  Argentina , Brazil, Chile,
 Colombia  and  Peru . Paulmann personally controls a 40 percent
stake in the company, with another 25 percent in the hands of
family members, according to a May 25  prospectus  filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  His holding gives him an estimated net worth of $5.2
billion, making him the second-richest person in Chile behind
Luksic family matriarch Iris Fontbona, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He has poured most of his
dividends back into the company through rights offerings, data
compiled by the  Chilean securities regulator  and Bloomberg show.  Cencosud’s press office declined to comment on Paulmann’s
personal fortune or make him available for comment.  Argentina Investment  Even amid the market turmoil brought on by  Europe ’s debt
crisis, Paulmann shouldn’t have any trouble selling the shares,
said Eric Conrads, who helps manage $1 billion in stocks at ING
Groep NV in New York.  “The big question mark is Argentina,” Conrads said in a
June 14 phone interview. “Then again, they’ve been making money
every year since they’ve been in Argentina.”  Paulmann cut his teeth in Argentina in the 1980s when
 inflation spiraled  above 1,000 percent a year. He continued
investing there after a record sovereign debt default in 2001
and plans to buy the remaining stake in Cencosud’s local
supermarket unit from UBS AG in a year in which President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner nationalized the biggest  oil
company  and tightened import restrictions.  “We have survived several crises,” Paulmann told
shareholders in Santiago April 24. “Argentines respect the
company.”  Today, Argentina accounts for 28 percent of Cencosud’s
sales, down from 73 percent in 2001, as the company expands in
the rest of the region, particularly  Brazil .  More Aggressive  Paulmann’s confidence in his company’s prospects is such
that he’s pledging as many as 80 million of the family’s  shares ,
worth $451.7 million as of yesterday’s close, to finance the
purchase of additional stock in the sale, according to the
prospectus filed with the SEC.  Paulmann has been more aggressive than Wal-Mart in buying
Brazilian chains. His  five deals  in five years are worth a
combined $1.8 billion. By comparison, since opening its first
store in Brazil in 1995, his Bentonville, Arkansas-based rival
has completed just two for a total of $1.1 billion.  Fourth Ranking  As a result, Paulmann has increased his share of the
Brazilian supermarket business to 4 percent, advancing on Wal-
Mart’s 10 percent, according to data compiled by the Brazilian
Association of Supermarkets, known as Abras. Up until last year,
Cencosud had failed to register on  Abras’s ranking  of Brazil’s
biggest supermarket players. It now ranks fourth, just behind
Wal-Mart.  “He wanted the asset and was willing to do whatever it
took to get it,” said Andre Bhatia, a partner at Washington-
based private-equity firm Acon Investments LLC, which sold G
Barbosa Holding SA to Paulmann in 2007 for $430 million. “They
seem to be very aggressive in making acquisitions in Brazil.
Clearly they’re talking to everybody.”  When Paulmann does talk, he does so in a thick German
accent even after arriving in Chile as a teenager following
World War II. After the death of his father in 1957, he and his
older brother Jurgen took charge of the family’s restaurant in
the southern Chilean town of Temuco, expanding it into a series
of supermarkets over the decade that followed.  Horst parted ways with his brother in 1976, when he decided
to open stores in Santiago, according to “ The Elephant’s Steps:
The Empire of Herr Paulmann ,” a 2011 biography by Paulina
Andrade and Marcelo Cerda. The title refers to the mascot of
Cencosud’s Jumbo supermarkets, a smiling elephant.  Paulmann didn’t finish high school and has few interests
outside of work, according to Oscar Anwandter, who led
Cencosud’s supermarket division between 1976 and 1996.  ‘No Social Life’  “Horst Paulmann thinks about work every single waking
hour,” Anwandter said in a telephone interview on May 23. “You
can’t even imagine him relaxing or playing golf. He has very few
friends and practically no social life.”  Compared to some other Latin American billionaires,
Paulmann leads an austere lifestyle, taking commercial flights
and driving a 1990s model  Mercedes Benz . According to the
biography, when one of his managers suggested he upgrade his
car, Paulmann said, “Why, if I can still get around in it?”  Paulmann’s leadership is of such importance to the success
of his company that Cencosud’s prospectus lists its dependence
on him as a material risk. Nearing his 78th birthday, he’s given
little indication of a  succession plan .  Children’s Stake  His oldest son, Manfred, spent many years pursuing his own
business ventures before taking on a bigger role at Cencosud
when he was named vice-president of the  board  in 2008. He quit
just two years later amid local media reports of disagreements
between him and his father. Manfred declined to comment in an e-
mail.  Manfred’s brother and sister, Peter and Heike, remain on
the board. Heike, who leads Cencosud’s Aventura Center family-
entertainment division, was the only one of the three to visit
Rio de Janeiro as part of the negotiations to buy Prezunic,
Andrea Cunha said. All three of Paulmann’s children own personal
6.9 percent stakes in the company, according to Cencosud’s
prospectus. Each of those holdings is worth almost $880 million
at the June 19 closing price.  For now, Horst remains in control. Between investor
meetings in New York and Asia, he oversaw the June 12 opening of
his Costanera Center shopping mall in Santiago, which had been
delayed for years as construction stalled in the wake of the
2008 financial crisis. Its glassy main tower is the tallest
building in  South America .  Paulmann has let his intuition guide him in his quest to
expand his retail empire, according to Anwandter, the former
head of Cencosud’s supermarket division.  “He has an extraordinary virtue of knowing beforehand what
project may work or not,” Anwandter said. “He doesn’t make
business plans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  