-- Biotechs Increased R&D Spending 9% in 2011, Report Finds
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/biotechs-increased-r-d-spending-9-in-2011-report-finds.html
Biotechnology companies  led by  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN)  and  Celgene Corp. (CELG)  boosted spending on research and
development for a second year in a row in 2011 after a steep
drop in 2009, Ernst & Young said.  The global industry cut research costs by 21 percent in
2009 as it navigated through the financial slowdown. Investment
last year jumped 9 percent after a 2 percent increase in 2010,
the London-based consulting firm said today in its annual
biotechnology report. In 2011, 62 percent of public companies in
the U.S. increased R&D spending.  “Companies that were in deep cost-cutting mode in 2009 and
cautiously optimistic in 2010 may have become somewhat more
willing to loosen their purse strings in 2011,” wrote Glen Giovannetti and Gautam Jaggi, the report authors. “The financial 
performance of publicly traded companies is more robust than at 
any time since the onset of the global financial crisis.”  Revenue in the industry rose 10 percent in 2011, adjusted
for the acquisitions of three of its largest companies,
according to the report. Smaller companies with less access to
capital are struggling to find ways to finance  drug development ,
the authors said. While companies in the biotech industry raised
$33.4 billion in 2011, the most since 2000, it was primarily in
the form of debt financings by the industry’s largest companies.  ‘Innovation Capital’  “If you take away the money being raised by the biggest
companies, the commercial leaders, what’s left -- we’re titling
‘innovation capital’ -- has been essentially flat,” Giovannetti
said in a telephone interview. “At $16.8 billion, it’s not
increasing and, in our view, it’s not going to increase
materially in the near term.”  Those drugmakers will have to find ways to do more with
less as they have for the last few years, Giovannetti said.
Large pharmaceutical firms are trying to do the same as they
work through the loss of patent protections for some top-selling
medicines, such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor last year and Sanofi
and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Plavix this year.  The drugmakers have seen a decrease of 30 percent in the
last five years in what Giovannetti and Jaggi call
“firepower,” or the ability to invest in biotechnology
companies through acquisitions and partnerships. While the
number of biotech acquisitions increased in 2011 to 57 from 49
the year before, large pharmaceutical firms were buyers in just
seven of the deals, according to the report.  ‘Commercial Leaders’  Three of the biotech industry’s “commercial leaders,”
defined by Ernst & Young as companies with more than $500
million in annual revenue, were purchased last year. Paris-based
Sanofi bought Genzyme Corp. for $20.1 billion, while Petach
Tikva, Israel-based  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the
world’s largest maker of generic drugs, bought Cephalon Inc. for
$6.2 billion. Talecris Biotherapeutics Holding Corp. was bought
by  Grifols SA (GRF) , based in  Barcelona , Spain, and Europe’s largest
maker of blood-plasma products, for about $3 billion.  Net income across the industry declined by 5 percent,
adjusted for those acquisitions, as companies such as  Thousand
Oaks , California-based Amgen and Allschwil, Switzerland-based
 Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  paid legal charges and  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) 
of  San Diego  took a charge to end an alliance with  Eli Lilly &
Co. (LLY) , based in Indianapolis. The biotech industry turned its
first profit in 2009 amid cost cuts.  “This is an industry that has been in the red for the vast
majority of its history,” Giovannetti said. “It’s still net
income, which is nice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  