-- BlackRock’s Hambro Says Dividend Crusade Is Reaping Rewards
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2012-06-19T16:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/blackrock-s-hambro-says-mining-dividend-crusade-reaping-rewards.html
Evy Hambro, portfolio manager of
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s $11 billion  World Mining Fund (MIGWMFA) , said his
campaign to get gold mining companies to raise their dividends
is starting to reap rewards.  “I’ve been on a bit of a crusade for dividends now for
many years,” Hambro said in an interview in  London  today.
“Probably the most guilty parties here are the gold producers
who have just been so reluctant to share the higher margins that
they are enjoying today with the owners of their businesses.”  The 16 members of the benchmark Arca Gold BUGS Index,
including  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  and  Kinross Gold Corp. (K) , will pay
an average dividend yield of 1.6 percent this year. That
compares with an average dividend yield of 4.5 percent in the
STOXX Europe 600 index and 2.7 percent in the 140 member
Bloomberg World Mining Index. The price of gold has risen for 11
consecutive years and almost doubled since 2008.  “The very, very low yields that we see on the gold sector
I think are one of the contributing factors that has led to gold
shares significantly under-performing the price of gold,”
Hambro said in an interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television’s ‘On the Move.’  “We think it’s going to change because the gold companies
are all now raising their dividends and are trying to catch up
with some of their mining sisters but it’s a hell of a long way
to go,” Hambro said.  Dividend Outlook  Kinross, which has raised its last two semi-annual
 dividends , may  increase  payments by a further 25 percent next
year to 10 cents from 8 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Other members of the Arca Gold BUGS Index that may
boost their dividends include  Randgold Resources (RRS) , Harmony Gold
Mining, and  AngloGold Ashanti , the data show.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer of the
metal, increased its dividend to 20 cents a share from 15 cents
in the first quarter, it said May 2. Newmont said April 24 it
increased its quarterly dividend 75 percent from the same period
a year earlier.  Gold futures may climb on speculation that the  Federal
Reserve  will take more steps to boost economic growth and as a
weaker dollar increased the appeal of the precious metal as an
alternative investment. Bullion for immediate delivery fell 0.3
percent to $1,623.45 an ounce by 2:59 p.m. in London.  BlackRock’s World Mining Fund counts bullion producers
 Freeport-McMoran Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) 
among its top-ten holdings. Hambro also manages BlackRock’s $2
billion World Mining Trust Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  