-- BOE Says Upside Risk to Inflation Has Eased as Stimulus Mulled
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/boe-says-upside-risk-to-inflation-has-eased-as-stimulus-mulled.html
The  Bank of England  said upside
risks to consumers’ inflation expectations eased in recent
months, as it edges closer to restarting stimulus to strengthen
the economy against the threats from the euro-area debt crisis.  “The upside risk from inflation expectations may have
receded a little relative to autumn 2011” and the risk from
longer-term expectations “appears to have not crystallized,”
Rashmi Harimohan of the Monetary Assessment Division said in an
article in the central bank’s  Quarterly Bulletin  published
today. “There are also few signs that past inflation
expectations have fed into wages.”  Data yesterday showed  inflation  slowed to 2.8 percent in
May, the weakest since December 2009, which may ease resistance
among policy makers to add to bond purchases. The central bank
will begin auctions in a new liquidity operation later today,
while it will also publish the minutes of its June 6-7 policy
meeting, showing how officials voted when they kept their  bond-
purchase target  at 325 billion pounds ($510 billion).  “The outlook for inflation is uncertain, but the Monetary
Policy Committee judges that inflation is likely to remain above
target throughout 2012, before falling back during 2013,”
Harimohan said. Still, “some risk remains” to expectations as
long as inflation is above the central bank’s 2 percent target.  Since the June meeting, policy maker  Adam Posen  said that
more asset purchases could aid the economy, and that he was
“too optimistic” when he abandoned a push for more stimulus in
April. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said on June 14 that
the case for loosening policy is “growing” as the euro-area
debt crisis casts “a long shadow over our own recovery.”  Emergency Liquidity  The central bank said yesterday its first auction in its
new Extended Collateral Term Repo Facility will be 5 billion
pounds of six-month funds. Bids may be submitted from 10:30 a.m.  King said last week policy makers will activate the
facility, first announced in December, to boost liquidity
available to banks amid “dark clouds” from  Europe . The ECTR
operation will provide sterling against the widest range of
collateral and is open to all banks and building societies that
are signed up to its Discount Window Facility.  In a separate article in today’s bulletin, the central bank
said investor confidence fell in the second quarter because of
increased concerns about the euro area, where  Spain  this month
sought aid for its banks, becoming the fourth member nation to
seek a bailout.  “Financial-market sentiment deteriorated markedly over the
review period amid renewed concerns about the vulnerabilities
associated with the indebtedness and competitiveness of several
euro-area economies,” the Bank of England said.  Rate Forecasts  The central bank also said that market participants pushed
back forecasts for the timing of an increase in the benchmark
 interest rate  and “placed some weight” on the possibility of a
cut in the rate below the  current record low  of 0.5 percent.  “Contacts attributed the moves largely to a combination of
weaker U.K. economic data and the implications for the U.K.
economy of growing concerns about the outlook in the euro
area,” it said.  In an article on U.K. productivity, the Bank of England
said it is “likely that, alongside substantial spare capacity
within the labor market, a margin of spare capacity remains
within companies.”  The central bank said in another report that its so-called
quantitative-easing program, through which its buys U.K.
government bonds, “appears to be less well understood than the
setting of interest rates.” While 26 percent of respondents to
a survey thought the main aim of QE was to increase confidence,
just 9 percent thought it was to stop inflation falling below
target, while 36 percent said they didn’t know what the
program’s primary objective was.  “The MPC has agreed that explaining QE should continue to
be an important area for the bank’s communication strategy,”
the central bank said.  It also said that satisfaction with the way it sets
 interest rates  has fallen since the onset of the financial
crisis, “but remains positive.” That may partly reflect
“ongoing concerns about the economic outlook,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  