-- BofA Said to Cut Some Managers in Wealth-Management Unit
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-06-19T14:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/bofa-said-to-cut-some-managers-in-wealth-management-unit.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender, eliminated some managers from a unit
catering to wealthy families as it cuts costs, said two people
with knowledge of the move.  Executives who oversaw trust officers and private-client
advisers at the firm’s U.S. Trust unit were dismissed this month
amid a companywide review of  expenses  at the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank, said the people, who requested anonymity
because the plans are private. They declined to say how many of
approximately 40 managers were affected.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
is seeking ways to lower expenses without reducing the
productivity of wealth managers. He has said he’ll reveal
details next month of how his efficiency effort, Project New
BAC, may trim as much as $3 billion in annual expenses in the
firm’s wealth-management and investment-banking units.  “Firms are tightening their belts and their mentality is
that as long as it’s not client-facing, they’re OK to go,” said
Mindy Diamond, president of Diamond Consultants LLC, a Chester,
New Jersey-based executive-search firm. “But there’s no
question that this impacts those  employees who remain .”  Trust officers help ensure the firm adheres to the legal
rules of a specific trust when handling a client’s assets. They
report to trust executives, some of whom were targeted for
dismissal, who oversee a region typically the size of a city.
Some managers overseeing private-client advisers were also cut,
the people said.  Nonessential Travel  U.S. Trust, which has about 4,300 employees, banned
nonessential travel last year for some personnel as a cost-
saving measure, the people said. Keith Banks, president of U.S.
Trust, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  U.S. Trust, founded a decade before the Civil War, is the
country’s  biggest  company managing trusts, the firm said, citing
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. data. Trusts are typically set
up by wealthy families or institutions to handle assets for
offspring or charities.  Bank of America bought the business from  Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCHW)  in 2006 for $3.3 billion and combined it with Merrill
Lynch & Co., which it purchased in 2009, to create its wealth-
management division. Bank of America had about 19,000 wealth
advisers with $2.2 trillion of client balances as of March 31.  Unit for Sale  Shares of the bank rose 4.9 percent to $8.14 at 10:27 a.m.
in  New York , bringing its gain for 2012 to 47 percent. That’s
the best showing for the day and the year to date in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average .  The lender plans to cut more than 300 jobs from corporate
and investment banking and trading units, a person briefed on
the matter said last month. The bank is in talks to sell its
non-U.S. wealth-management operations to Zurich-based Julius
Baer Group Ltd., a transaction that may reduce headcount by less
than 2,000.  Moynihan has said that the first phase of his cost-cutting
plan, announced last year, would trim $5 billion in expenses and
eliminate 30,000 jobs from retail banking and support units.
Bank of America had about 278,700 employees as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 