-- Brazil Real Advances Most in Two Weeks on Fed Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-06-19T21:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/brazil-real-gains-on-speculation-more-currency-swaps-may-be-sold.html
The real gained the most in two
weeks as the  U.S. dollar  weakened amid speculation the Federal
Reserve may announce more stimulus measures to boost the world’s
largest economy.  The currency gained 1.5 percent to 2.0289 per U.S. dollar,
the biggest jump since June 5, trimming its decline this year to
8 percent. The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures
contract due in January 2014 fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 8.03 percent.  “The real is just trading in line with other currencies,
which is a rarity these days,” Kenneth Lam, a Latin America
currency and local rates strategist at Citigroup Inc., said by
phone from  New York . Speculation that Brazil’s central bank will
revive swap sales to limit losses in the currency faded “now
that things are looking brighter, and people are speculating on
more quantitative easing,” Lam said.  U.S.  Federal Reserve  policy makers begin a two-day meeting
today amid speculation they will take further steps to boost
economic growth. Group of 20 leaders convening in  Mexico  focused
their response to  Europe ’s financial crisis on stabilizing banks
as the  International Monetary Fund  raised its lending capacity
to shield the rest of the world economy.  Interest-rate futures yields fell as the second preview of
the Rio de Janeiro-based Getulio Vargas Foundation’s IGP-M index
rose at a slower pace. The second preview, which covers producer
and consumer prices and construction costs in the 20 days
beginning May 21, increased 0.63 percent. The index advanced
0.68 percent in June’s first preview and climbed 1 percent in
May’s second preview.  Greek Bailout  “The IGP-M report offset the positive movement in markets
abroad,” said Darwin Dib, chief economist at CM Capital Markets
Asset Management, in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  A European Union official said a politically acceptable
path for renegotiating  Greece ’s bailout will be sought. The
official spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity in
Brussels today.  Antonis Samaras, whose New Democracy party came in first in
Greece’s June 17 election, told reporters yesterday that he will
hold a second day of talks today after “constructive” meetings
with two party leaders.  The central bank has held currency-swap auctions, which are
equivalent to selling dollars in the futures market, since mid-
May to support the real. The swaps are a reversal of the bank’s
dollar purchases, which reached $7.2 billion in April, the most
in 13 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  