-- Tombini Sees Brazil GDP Growth Above 4.5% Early Next Year
-- B y   K a t e r i n a   P e t r o f f   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-06-19T17:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/brazil-to-grow-4-in-fourth-quarter-tombini-says-correct-.html
Brazil’s economy will be expanding
in the beginning of next year at the  fastest pace  since the last
quarter of 2010, said central bank President Alexandre Tombini.  The world’s biggest emerging economy after  China  will grow
more than 4.5 percent in the first quarter of 2013 from a year
earlier, Tombini said at an event in  Sao Paulo . Growth will
accelerate to a 4 percent pace in the last quarter of this year,
he said.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has reduced the
benchmark  interest rate  to a record, cut taxes and taken
measures to boost credit in a bid to shore up economic growth.
Record low  unemployment  will help sustain domestic demand,
spurring a rebound from the first quarter, when Brazil posted
its weakest year-over-year economic performance since the
aftermath of the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy in
2008.  “Consumption is what will propagate growth, stimulating
new private investments that will support sustainable growth
over the next years,” Tombini said. “Important stimulus
measures that have already been introduced haven’t fully taken
hold yet.”  Boost Growth  The economy expanded 0.75 percent in the first quarter of
2012 from a year earlier, its worst performance since a 1.47
percent contraction in the third quarter of 2009, the national
statistics agency said June 1.  Tombini said  Brazil  has room to boost economic growth by
fueling consumption without threatening its 4.5 percent
inflation target.  Inflation slowed to 4.99 percent in the 12 months through
May, down from 7.31 percent in September, according to the
statistics agency.  “It’s important to highlight, at this moment, that
inflation continues to slow and move toward the target,”
Tombini said. “Profound structural changes in the last years,
combined with a series of elements that guarantee support to
domestic demand and the important stimulus already implemented,
indicate there is still room to increase consumption.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katerina Petroff in Sao Paulo at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net ,
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  