-- Brazil’s Sugar Export Profitability Rises on Harvesting Delays
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-19T09:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/brazil-s-sugar-export-profitability-rises-on-harvesting-delays.html
The profitability of sugar exports
from  Brazil , the world’s biggest producer, over sales in the
domestic market increased last week as harvesting delays helped
boost international prices, according to Cepea.  Exports of the sweetener were 5.1 percent more advantageous
than sales in the domestic market, according to the University
of Sao Paulo research group. That compares with 0.7 percent in
the prior week. Raw sugar traded on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York 
climbed 4.8 percent in the two weeks ended June 15, while Cepea
said the domestic price dropped 0.36 percent in the period.
Rains in sugar cane growing areas have disrupted harvesting and
delayed shipments.  “Players still say that the season is delayed, because of
the late start of the harvesting and the slow pace of crushing
activities, which were, in turn, halted by rains,” Heloisa Lee
Burnquist, an analyst at Cepea, wrote in a report yesterday.  Sugar output in Brazil’s center south, the country’s main
growing region, dropped 19 percent in the second half of May to
1.96 million metric tons after rain slowed harvesting, Unica
said on June 14. The sugar content in the cane fell 5.8 percent
in the same period to 119.53 kilograms (263.52 pounds) a ton,
data from the industry group showed.  Crushing activities resumed in the state of  Sao Paulo  last
week as the weather improved, Cepea said. Mills focused on
delivering the sweetener from previously signed contracts,
limiting supplies in the  spot market , according to the report.  Rains are set to return to growing areas this week, with a
cold front arriving in the center south either today or
tomorrow, Marco Antonio dos Santos, an agronomist at weather
forecaster Somar Meteorologia, said in a report yesterday.  Sales of sugar in Brazil’s domestic market last week were
25 percent more profitable than anhydrous ethanol, the kind used
to blend into gasoline, and 46 percent more advantageous than
hydrous ethanol, used in flex fuel cars. Both the sweetener and
the biofuel are made from raw material sugar cane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  