-- Brookfield Office to Buy London Buildings
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-06-19T20:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/brookfield-to-buy-london-offices-from-hammerson-for-812-million.html
Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) ,
the owner of  New York ’s World Financial Center, agreed to buy
buildings in the City of London financial district for 518
million pounds ($812 million), its first U.K. deal in two years.  The office properties will be purchased from  Hammerson Plc (HMSO) ,
a London-based real estate investment trust, the companies said
today in separate statements. The transaction includes a 50
percent stake in a building near the  Bank of England  and a
development site near Liverpool Street Station.  Brookfield, based in New York, is acquiring buildings in
growing markets and areas where it is difficult to develop new
ones. This month, the company bought two office towers in
 Seattle  for $210 million, its first purchase in the West Coast
city, and announced plans to build a second skyscraper at its
Bay Adelaide Centre in downtown Toronto.  “ London  has been a rather obvious hole in their
portfolio,” Alex Avery, an analyst with CIBC World Markets Inc.
in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “Given all the
disarray in  Europe  and generally around the world, this is
another example of Brookfield being opportune in acquiring a
portfolio during a time of unsettled markets to gain a foothold
in the London office market.”  London Opportunities  The company will consider other buying opportunities
“across all of the central London marketplaces,” Martin Jepson, Brookfield’s senior vice president for development and
investment, said today by telephone. Jepson was hired from
Hammerson in August.  Brookfield made its first U.K. investment in 2010 after
agreeing to develop an office tower at London’s 100 Bishopsgate
with  Great Portland Estates Plc. (GPOR)  The company plans to upgrade
and expand some of the buildings it’s buying from Hammerson,
taking advantage of rising prices in central London caused by a
lack of top-quality  office space .  Hammerson said the gross proceeds from the sale are 5
percent higher than the book value of the assets. The company
rose 2.5 percent to 428 pence in London.  Brookfield gained 1.2 percent to $16.75 at the close in New
York.  Leadenhall Court  Brookfield will purchase 75 percent of Hammerson’s office
properties. The buildings include 125 Old Broad Street, 99
Bishopsgate and Leadenhall Court, which have combined space of
776,000 square feet (72,000 square meters), according to the
U.S. company’s statement.  The company plans to develop the Principal Place site
between the Shoreditch area and the main financial district
because it provides “the opportunity to cater to tenant space
requirements in a market facing limited new supply in a three-to
five-year time horizon,” Brookfield said in a  presentation  to
investors.  The value of office buildings leased to tenants in the  City
of London  rose 0.9 percent in May, led by overseas demand,
Investment Property Databank Ltd. said yesterday.  Hammerson Chief Executive Officer David Atkins said in
February that the company decided to focus on retail assets
because they generate higher returns compared with office
buildings. After today’s deal, 97 percent of the company’s
properties will be shopping malls and other retail buildings.  The sale “is a logical move, but not a sign of strength,”
Keith Crawford, an analyst at Peel Hunt, said in a note to
investors today. He has a hold rating on the stock.  Quick Transaction  Jepson, who oversaw the properties as managing director of
Hammerson’s London division, said links with his former company
“helped us get the deal across the line reasonably quickly.”  Atkins, the Hammerson CEO, said his company had about 30
offers from prospective buyers for all or some of the properties
for sale. Brookfield “was able to agree to a deal and sign it
in two weeks,” he said in an interview.  The planned sale accelerates Hammerson’s transformation to
a retail REIT and isn’t “a call” on the London office market,
Atkins said.  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A) , which owns half of
Brookfield Office, is planning a partial spinoff of its global
commercial real estate holdings to shareholders.  The proposed company, Brookfield Property Partners LP, will
include Toronto-based Brookfield Asset Management’s stake in
Brookfield Office; a 21 percent share of  General Growth
Properties Inc. (GGP) , the second-largest U.S. mall owner; and 37
percent of Rouse Properties Inc., a shopping center owner that
General Growth spun off, according to a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  