-- Canada Said to Be Invited to Join Pacific-Trade Talks
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-06-19T17:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/canada-said-to-be-invited-to-join-pacific-trade-negotiations-1-.html
Canada , the largest U.S. trading
partner, will be invited to join nine nations negotiating a
Pacific-region trade agreement, after  Mexico  received a similar
offer, three people familiar with the matter said.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  may make an
announcement on the Trans-Pacific Partnership as early as today
in the Mexican resort of Los Cabos, where he is attending a
Group of 20 summit, according to the people aware of the plan
who asked not be identified before a decision is made public.  With Canada and Mexico, the agreement would create the
U.S.’s largest trade accord, linking North American Free Trade
Agreement partners with eight Pacific-region nations. For now,
the parties have taken no action on Japan’s request to join.
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler LLC have led
opposition to Japan’s participation, saying the nation’s auto
market needs to be more open to international competition.  Harper and President Barack Obama are scheduled to meet at
11:30 a.m. in Los Cabos (1:30 p.m. in Washington), said Julie
Vaux, Harper’s spokeswoman.  Carol Guthrie , a spokeswoman for the
U.S. Trade Representative’s office, didn’t respond to a request
for comment.  No Delays  New entrants to the talks “must not lower the ambition of
the Trans-Pacific Partnership or delay its conclusion,”
Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican and chairman of
the House Ways & Means Committee trade panel, said at a
conference today in  Washington . By setting high standards, the
agreement may give its participants leverage when dealing with
countries including India and China and encourage them to abide
by similar rules, he said.  Brady called on Congress to grant the White House so-called
fast-track authority to negotiate agreements subject to an up-
or-down vote by lawmakers. If the Pacific accord “is to be
completed quickly, we have to be prepared to consider it in
Congress when that time comes,” he said.  Adding Mexico and Canada to the multilateral agreement
would benefit manufacturing supply networks already in place in
North America,  Eric Farnsworth , vice president of the Council of
the Americas in Washington, said yesterday in an interview after
Mexico’s invitation was announced. The New York-based
organization promotes open markets in the Western hemisphere.  Regional Trade  Trade in merchandise among Canada, Mexico and the U.S.
reached $1 trillion in 2011 for the first time, Obama said at an
April 2 press conference. Total U.S. trade in goods with Canada
reached $596.2 billion, resulting in a $34.5 billion  U.S. trade
deficit  with its northern neighbor, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau. Goods trade with Mexico, the second largest market for
U.S. exporters, was $461.2 billion.  The nations negotiating the Pacific accord with the U.S.
are Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia,  New Zealand ,  Peru ,
Singapore and Vietnam. The agreement is expected to encompass
traditional issues including agriculture and intellectual
property, as well investment and protections for businesses that
compete against state-owned enterprises, according to the U.S.
Trade Representative’s office.  The Obama administration must notify Congress of its intent
to include any additional countries in the talks, followed by a
90-day consultation period with Congress.  The next round of Pacific-accord negotiations is scheduled
for July 2-10 in San Diego.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  