-- Canada April Wholesale Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-06-19T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/canada-april-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada ’s wholesale trade report for April from
 Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales rose 1.5% in April to $49.3 billion. This
increase was mainly due to higher sales in the agricultural
supplies industry. Excluding this industry, wholesale sales were
unchanged.  In volume terms, wholesale sales were up 1.3% in April.  Agricultural supplies sales rise  An increase in sales was reported in four of the seven
subsectors, accounting for roughly two-thirds of total wholesale
sales.  The overall increase was almost entirely attributable to a
12.8% rise in the miscellaneous subsector. This subsector was
stimulated by a 48.5% increase in sales in the agricultural
supplies industry. The rise coincided with a strong increase in
exports of fertilizers and fertilizer materials, which were up
51.8% in April over March.  The second biggest advance was posted in the machinery,
equipment and supplies subsector (+1.1%), which partly offset
the decline in March.  The building material and supplies subsector (+0.5%) and
the motor vehicle and parts subsector (+0.2%) posted gains for a
third straight month.  The largest sales decrease in dollars occurred in the
personal and household goods subsector. Sales fell 2.2%, largely
reflecting lower sales in the pharmaceuticals and pharmacy
supplies industry.  Sales increases concentrated in the West  In April, seven provinces recorded growth in wholesale
sales, including the four western provinces.  Wholesalers in  Alberta  contributed the most to the national
growth, followed by wholesalers in Saskatchewan.  In Alberta, sales were up 4.6%, the highest growth rate
since 2004. Increases were observed in several industries,
including the metal service centres industry and the
agricultural supplies industry.  The 6.7% increase in Saskatchewan was primarily due to the
agricultural supplies industry, which represents just over one-
third of the province’s sales. This industry’s contribution to
the provincial increase was moderated by decreases in other
industries.  Ontario posted 0.4% growth in wholesale sales in April, a
third consecutive increase. In Quebec, sales rose 1.0%.  Inventories continue to rise  Inventories increased 0.3% in April to $59.8 billion.
Inventories were up in 13 of the 25 industries.  Wholesalers in the electrical, plumbing, heating and air-
conditioning equipment and supplies industry (+10.9%) and in the
motor vehicle industry (+8.4%) recorded the largest inventory
increases in dollar terms.  The inventory-to-sales ratio fell from 1.23 in March to
1.21 in April.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time in
months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to remain
at their current level.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted and in
current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the prices of
goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is a
chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  