-- Capital One Settles With BankUnited, CEO Kanas for $20M
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-19T21:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/capital-one-settles-with-bankunited-ceo-kanas-for-20m.html
Capital One Financial Corp. agreed
to settle a lawsuit against  BankUnited Inc. (BKU)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer John Kanas and Vice Chairman John Bohlsen in
return for $20 million.  The deal bars the two men and BankUnited, the lender backed
by Blackstone Group LP and billionaire  Wilbur Ross , from opening
a branch in  New York , New Jersey or  Connecticut  or soliciting
Capital One customers until Jan. 31, according to the settlement
filed today in federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia . BankUnited
also must operate Herald National Bank, the lender it agreed to
buy last year, as a separate entity until the end of January.  “Kanas and Bohlsen denied liability and made no admission
of wrongdoing,” both lenders said in a statement. “BankUnited
said the provisions in the settlement agreement will not have
any material financial impact on the company or any material
effect on its strategic plans in the tri-state area.”  The settlement ends a dispute triggered last June when
 Miami Lakes , Florida-based BankUnited agreed to purchase Herald
National to enter the New York market. Capital One, led by CEO
Richard Fairbank, alleged a month later that Kanas and Bohlsen
breached non-compete agreements signed in 2007. BankUnited,
which wasn’t a party to the suit, joined the settlement. It must
be approved by U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady.  Separation Agreement  Kanas and Bohlsen worked at Capital One following its
purchase of North Fork Bancorporation, the Melville,  New York- 
based lender that Kanas ran for about 20 years and where Bohlsen
served as vice chairman. Capital One, based in McLean, Virginia,
completed the deal for about $13.6 billion in December 2006.  The men left less than a year later under a separation
agreement that barred them from competing against Capital One
for five years, according to a May 17 court ruling that denied
their request to void the pact. In return, restricted shares
awarded to Kanas and Bohlsen, valued at $24 million and $18
million, respectively, vested immediately, the filing shows.  “Capital One was pleased with the decision of the federal
court, which affirmed the validity of the non-competition
agreements that were negotiated in good faith,”  Tatiana Stead ,
a Capital One spokeswoman, said in a phone interview. “We are
also pleased with the terms of the settlement.”  The original non-compete contracts were set to expire in
August, according to the filing.  Shares Advance  Capital One climbed 1.7 percent to $55.05 in New York
trading and has surged 30 percent this year, compared with a 15
percent advance for the 24-company KBW Bank Index. BankUnited
rose 41 cents to $23.80 and has gained 8.2 percent in 2012.  Kanas, 65, told investors when he took BankUnited public in
January 2011 that he was seeking a New York expansion.
BankUnited, with $12.2 billion in assets, has more than 80
branches in  Florida . Herald National owns three branches in New
York: in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Melville.  Capital One’s main bank unit has 287 branches in New York,
66 in  New Jersey  and one in Connecticut, according to Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. data.  Herald National must operate separately from BankUnited’s
primary banking unit, and Kanas and Bohlsen may not serve in
management or as directors until a new non-compete agreement
ends in January, according to the statement.  BankUnited paid Kanas about $4.9 million over the two years
ending Dec. 31 and he accrued about $37 million in compensation
in 2009, including $35.8 million in stock awards, according to a
filing. He owned about 3.7 million shares, or 3.9 percent of
BankUnited, as of Dec. 22,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Kanas and a group of private-equity investors including
Carlyle Group LP and Blackstone bought BankUnited, a collapsed
Florida lender, in 2009, pumping in $900 million of capital and
entering into a loss-sharing agreement with the FDIC.  The case is  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  v. Kanas, 1:11-cv-
750, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  