-- Carlos Slim’s Companies Doing ‘Very Well’ Without TV Ads
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-06-19T20:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/carlos-slim-s-companies-doing-very-well-without-tv-ads.html
Carlos Slim ’s companies are getting
along fine without buying advertising on Mexico’s top two TV
networks, his eldest son said, signaling that a government
intervention last week may not be enough to persuade the world’s
richest man to put commercials back on the airwaves.  Slim pulled his ads from Grupo Televisa SAB and TV Azteca
SAB at the beginning of 2011, blaming a dispute over prices.
Tensions have intensified between the companies and Slim’s
 America Movil SAB (AMXL)  because the broadcasters are pushing into the
mobile-phone market, Slim’s main source of revenue. Last week,
Mexico’s antitrust agency said Televisa and Azteca should offer
spots to rivals at the average price that other advertisers pay,
as a condition for them to form a wireless-industry partnership.  Slim, 72, has relied on newspapers, online advertising and
cable-TV networks to advertise his wireless service, Internet
plans and retail stores. His move away from over-the-air TV came
as the broadcasters encroached on the telecommunications
industry he dominates.  “We have been able to manage our marketing strategy very
well,” Carlos Slim Domit, the son of the billionaire and the
co-chairman of America Movil, said in an interview yesterday.
“You can have a very strong strategy using new media and using
alternate media to get your products’ image to the customer.”  Slim’s Portion  At the time he pulled his TV ads, Slim represented about
1.5 percent of Televisa’s sales and 3 percent of Azteca’s. When
asked if the antitrust settlement would cause Slim’s companies
to reconsider their strategy for advertising purchases, Slim
Domit, 45, deferred to the broadcasters.  “They are the ones that put us out, so the question is
more for them,” he said in Los Cabos,  Mexico , where he was
attending the G-20 business summit.  Dan McCosh, a spokesman for TV Azteca, declined to comment.
Televisa didn’t have an immediate comment.  The two broadcasters control almost all of the over-the-air
TV audience in a country where only about 40 percent of
households have cable or satellite subscriptions.  Televisa controls three cable-TV units that are offering
Internet and phone service, taking market share away from Slim.
The Mexico City-based broadcaster agreed this week to conditions
set by the antitrust agency, allowing the company to take a 50
percent stake in mobile-phone carrier Grupo Iusacell SA to
compete even more closely with America Movil.  The other half of Iusacell is owned by  Ricardo Salinas , the
billionaire who controls TV Azteca.  Movil Share  Even without  TV advertising , America Movil has held about
70 percent of Mexico’s wireless market consistently over the
past 18 months. Iusacell has increased its share to 6 percent
from less than 5 percent, trailing  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s 20 percent.  “It’s the result of all the work our marketing areas have
done, doing a lot of research, a lot of focused advertising,”
Slim Domit said. “It’s been consistently successful for us.”  America Movil has pleaded with the government for a license
to offer TV service over its home-phone lines to compete with
Televisa’s cable units. The government says America Movil still
must satisfy requirements for the way its network connects to
competitors, a claim America Movil disputes.  Mexican phone regulators approved a framework agreement,
developed with carriers including America Movil, earlier this
month that could settle much of the dispute with the government,
Alejandro Gallostra, an analyst with Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, said in a June 14 research note. He said he
expects  America Movil  to get a TV license in the next 12 months.  “We haven’t got any news changing the decision, but we
will see,” Slim Domit said. “We believe we have accomplished
all the requirements.”  America Movil gained 1.8 percent to 17.46 pesos at the
close in Mexico City. Televisa slid 1.2 percent to 54.85 pesos,
and Azteca rose 1.9 percent to 8.46 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  