-- LCH Raises Margin Costs for Trading Spanish Government Bonds
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-06-20T15:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/lch-lifts-margin-costs-for-trading-most-spanish-government-bonds.html
LCH Clearnet Ltd.,  Europe ’s biggest
clearing house, raised the extra deposit it takes from clients
to trade most Spanish government bonds as concern mounts that
euro-area leaders are failing to tame the debt crisis.  The margin needed for Spanish securities due in 10 years to
15 years will be increased to 14.7 percent from 13.6 percent,
according to a statement on  LCH Clearnet’s website  yesterday,
which was confirmed by Rachael Harper, a spokeswoman for the
company. The rate was also boosted on all Spanish debt due from
zero months through seven years.  Spain became the fourth member of the 17-nation bloc to
seek a bailout since the financial turmoil began almost three
years ago when it asked for aid to rescue its lenders on June 9.
That helped send the  yield  on the 10-year bond to a euro-
lifetime high of 7.29 percent two days ago.  “The LCH margin increase is part and parcel of a process
where every institution involved in a given trade tries to
protect itself, thereby accelerating the speed with which
Spanish bonds fall,” said  Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in  New York .  While the rate on the bond declined 41 basis points in the
past two days to 6.75 percent at 4:36 p.m. London time, it is
still close to the 7 percent threshold that helped trigger
sovereign bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .  Yield Levels  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Andrew Bosomworth  said
the borrowing costs of Spain and  Italy  are unsustainable.  “Both of those countries will go bankrupt eventually if
they have to continually refinance themselves at these sorts of
levels,” Bosomworth, a  money manager  at the  Newport Beach ,
California-based company, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with  Maryam Nemazee . “It’s not an
easy environment to invest in.”  An increase in the margin requirement reduces the amount of
cash banks are able to borrow using the Spanish  government bonds 
as collateral in so-called repurchase operations, dimming their
appeal, and meaning holders need to commit more of the
securities to get the same size of loans.  The additional deposit required for trading notes due in
4.75-through-seven years will be 9.50 percent, from 8.10 percent
previously, LCH Clearnet said. The changes will come into effect
from the close of business tomorrow, the company said.  Credit Downgrade  Spain’s credit was downgraded three steps to Baa3 from A3
on June 13 by Moody’s Investors Service, citing the nation’s
increased debt burden, weakening economy and limited access to
 capital markets .  The decision to increase the margin was predicted yesterday
by strategists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research
in an investor report.  “Yesterday’s LCH haircut increase shouldn’t have material
impact on bank funding or on Spanish bonds,” said London-based
rates strategist Sphia Salim in an interview today. “This is
because it is very limited. What would be worrying for Spanish
bonds and market confidence in general is if LCH Ltd raises the
haircuts by 10-15 percentage points.”  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold the
10-year bonds of  Spain  over similar-maturity AAA rated German
bunds reached a euro-era record 589 basis points, or 5.89
percentage points, on June 18.  A spread of 450 basis points over a  AAA benchmark  is an
“indicative level at which LCH Clearnet reviews margins held to
ensure that enough financial resources have already been called
to cover the associated reduced market liquidity,” according to
the  company’s website .  “LCH Clearnet looks at a variety of measures to understand
market conditions and liquidity,” the company said. Because LCH
Clearnet “proactively manages all markets to seek additional
margin as spreads widen,” it may be that “no additional margin
call is required by the time spreads have reached” 450 basis
points, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  