-- Chavez Maintains Lead Over Rival in Datanalisis Poll
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-06-19T21:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/chavez-maintains-lead-over-rival-in-datanalisis-poll-correct-.html
(Corrects growth figure in seventh paragraph.)  Venezuela ’s President  Hugo Chavez 
has maintained his lead over opposition candidate Henrique
Capriles Radonski in the most recent polls by Datanalisis,
according to a New York-based analyst with access to the
unpublished survey results.  Chavez had 42.6 percent and Capriles 28.8 percent in a
Datanalisis telephone survey of 700 people taken June 12-15 that
had a margin of error of 3.7 percent, according to the analyst,
who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about the results.  In a poll of 1,300 people taken May 21-29 by Caracas-based
Datanalisis, Chavez had 43.6 percent and Capriles 27.7 percent,
the analyst said. The May survey had a margin of error of 2.7
percent. The changes in support for the two candidates between
the May and June polls weren’t statistically significant.  Capriles registered as the opposition candidate on June 10
as tens of thousands of his supporters lined his 10-kilometer
(6.2 mile) route to the national electoral council.  Chavez, who is battling an unspecified form of cancer,
registered a day later with a similar mass demonstration. The
self-declared socialist has stepped up his public appearances in
the past week following prolonged absences that fueled
speculation he may not be fit enough to contest the vote.  Datanalisis President Luis Vicente Leon declined to comment
because the poll is private.  Housing Boom  Venezuela’s economy expanded 5.6 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace since 2008, as record oil revenue
allowed Chavez to finance a boom in housing construction. While
Capriles has run an effective campaign that promised not to
dismantle Chavez’s popular social programs, high  oil prices  have
allowed Chavez to “buy popularity,” said  Larry Birns , director
of the Washington-based Council on Hemispheric Affairs.  “In his own way, Chavez’s campaign has been as brilliant
as Capriles’s,” Birns said in a telephone interview. “Both of
them have thought up their game plan and executed it pretty
faultlessly.”  In a Datanalisis survey taken in April, the last one that
it has officially released, Chavez won 43 percent of
preferences, compared with 26 percent for Capriles.  With almost a quarter of voters undecided, the polls
reflect a level of dissatisfaction with Chavez on which Capriles
hasn’t been able to capitalize, Birns said.  “There are many people who are disaffected from Chavez,”
Birns said. “But they are not prepared yet to make a firm
commitment to Capriles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  