-- Cheap Coal Is Dead. Long Live Renewables. (Part 1)
-- B y   C a r l   P o p e
-- 2012-06-19T22:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/cheap-coal-is-dead-long-live-renewables-part-1-.html
“Sustainable Energy for All” is the
main theme for this week’s Rio+20 United Nations gathering in
 Brazil . The challenge of making energy both accessible and
sustainable has grown more complicated in the past year or so,
and also more exciting. These are tough times for coal and other
high-carbon sources of energy, while the news about clean energy
is more promising.  In March, the power generating arm of India’s largest
conglomerate, the  Tata Group , announced that it was shifting its
investment strategy from coal-fired thermal plants to wind and
solar renewable projects. Coal projects, Tata said, were
becoming “impossible” to develop, and investment in them had
stopped.  With this declaration, one of Asia’s biggest energy players
confirmed an emerging reality. The U.S., Europe, Russia,
Australia and Japan all had created modern consumer economies
dependent on abundant, cheap fossil-fuel energy. In the 21st
century that is no longer viable; the high-carbon growth path is
closing.  The reason is cost. Oil has long been expensive, because
low-cost oil producers such as Saudi Arabia have learned to
demand high prices by limiting supplies and refusing to sign
long-term price agreements. Coal had always been different --
traded locally, on both long-term concessions and short-term
spot contracts. Two years ago,  China  and India could supplement
their domestic coal supplies with imports from  Indonesia ,
Australia and  South Africa . Some of the cheapest coal mines
serving China in 2010 were in Indonesia, where India’s Adani
Power Ltd. and Tata were purchasing coal mines and building
their own shipping and port facilities to ensure they could
supply a wave of huge new power projects.  Geologically Abundant  While coal is geologically more abundant than oil, cheap
coal, close to population centers, is not. The biggest coal-
producing region in the U.S. -- the Powder River Basin -- can
get coal out of the ground for about $12 a ton. It costs
roughly $60 a ton to ship it to  power plants  in the Ohio Valley.
China’s vast reserves near  Inner Mongolia  can be mined for $25 a
ton. But by the time it travels by rail across North China, then
by sea to southern coastal cities, the  cost rises  to more than
$125 a ton.  Shipping coal is more difficult and more expensive than
shipping oil. Only a few coal-exporting countries are close to
Asian markets;  Australia  and Indonesia dominate the trade. In
2011, countries with abundant accessible coal, such as
Indonesia, began to demand high prices -- two times higher in
fact. Coal became the new oil. An informal cartel of coal
exporters emerged with the same strategic goal as the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries -- obtaining
higher prices.  China and India, which had been counting on buying coal for
$40 a ton, now find that imported coal at $120 a ton is “cheap.”
Dozens of coal plants in China and India cut back capacity
because of fuel costs and shortages. Indian power companies
 scrapped  42 gigawatts worth of new power plants. The  Reserve
Bank  of  India  warned investors that coal projects were very
risky. India’s largest coal company tried to raise its prices,
only to be forced to back down by the government, which owns
more than half of it. Eventually, Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  ordered Coal India to provide adequate coal deliveries for
power projects in the pipeline. Coal India grudgingly agreed,
but markets didn’t believe it could deliver; banks continued to
refuse to lend, leading to Tata’s announcement. Meanwhile, in
China, the government tried to reverse its previous deregulation
of the coal-mining and transportation sectors in an effort to
get prices under control, causing friction with state-owned coal
mines.  Expensive Shipping  India and China, respectively, are home to some of the
world’s largest coal reserves. They are the fastest-growing
global coal markets. But most of their coal is distant from
their booming coastal regions. Their rail systems are inadequate
to ship the volumes needed to fuel existing needs, much less the
growth expected by 2020. And shipping coal by rail is expensive.
Most of the cost of coal is not wages, but  diesel fuel  used
either to mine or transport it. As oil grows more expensive, it
drags the price of coal up with it.  There is cheap coal in the Powder River Basin, in part
because U.S. demand for coal is slumping as American power
companies shift to cheaper and cleaner natural gas or
renewables. Peabody Energy Inc. would love to ship its surplus
Wyoming coal to  Asia , if it can get it there. Peabody promises
investors that it can make money shipping coal to China --
precisely because it expects the price to remain at $120 or
more. But U.S. coal companies must first overcome local
community opposition to shipping and loading hundreds of
millions of tons of dirty black dust through West Coast ports
such as Longview,  Washington .  What does $120-a-ton coal mean for the development plans of
India and China? At $120 a ton, electricity from coal costs
about 10 cents a kilowatt-hour, before installing pollution
controls. But India and China built their economic plans on 4
cents-a-kilowatt-hour power, presuming that cheap Indonesian
coal would keep the price down.  Indonesia is no longer willing to be the low-cost
provider; it sees China and India using imported coal to fuel
industrialization and economic development, and would rather
see that development taking place at home. So the island nation
announced that it will impose a tax on coal exports, leading to
an actual ban in 2014. If Indonesia follows through, it would
pull about 320 million tons -- roughly 40 percent of the Asian
coal transported by sea -- off the market, creating a power
crisis for China and India (and other importers, such as  Japan 
and Korea) that would make the shortfalls of 2011 seem minor.
Even if Indonesia merely insists on keeping prices at more than
$100 a ton, the cost of electricity in China’s and India’s 
booming, but still fundamentally poor, economies will double.  Transportation Fuel  Oil, clearly, is already too expensive to power Asia’s
growing electricity demand. The price of liquefied natural gas,
which most Asian nations import, is linked to oil. India and
China are now aggressively seeking their own versions of the
shale-gas boom occurring in the U.S. But even if they manage to
increase domestic supplies, they would be shrewd to convert
natural gas to a transportation fuel rather than devoting it to
electrical generation.  Because as the cost of high-carbon electricity soars, the
cost of low-carbon alternatives is plummeting.  China’s wind industry is eager to provide power at prices
ranging from 7 cents a kilowatt-hour to 13 cents, and India’s
latest solar projects are bid at 15 cents. Costs of wind and
solar continue to decline. The conventional wisdom is that,
because wind and solar are intermittent sources, they can’t be
used to power an entire economy. It’s true that it will take
some time before renewables can compete with the $40-a-ton coal
that Asia had been counting on. But as challenging as the low-
carbon path to growth may be, coal markets are telling Asia it
has no choice. High-carbon growth not only would cook the
climate. It would also derail Asia’s economies.  (Carl Pope is a former chairman of the  Sierra Club . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Egypt ’s de facto  coup d’etat 
and on a capital gains-corporate income  tax deal ;  Margaret
Carlson  on Washington’s other  dysfunctional government ; Clive
Crook on why the  European Central Bank  must act;  Noah Feldman  on
whether Egypt will be the  next Algeria ;  Peter Orszag  on
 mandatory voting  in the U.S.  To contact the writer on this story:
Carl Pope at  carl.pope@insidestraightstrategies.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 