-- Chinese Commerce Minister Sees June Economy ’Turning for Better’
-- B y   R e g i n a   T a n
-- 2012-06-19T05:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/chinese-commerce-minister-sees-june-economy-turning-for-better-.html
China Commerce Minister  Chen Deming 
spoke to reporters during the G-20 Leaders’ meeting in Los
Cabos,  Mexico .  On Trade Protectionism  “Trade protectionism can’t save the current situation and
can’t save each nation’s wish to expedite an economic
recovery.”  On Domestic Consumption  “We also have to start up our own consumption so that
domestic markets can help offset some impacts from global trade.
The downward economic trend in April and May this year was
pretty obvious. The central government took some pre-emptive
measures to boost consumption. I personally think that the June
situation is turning for the better.”  On European debt crisis  The effect on China from the  European debt crisis  is
“relatively large.”  “Developed nations such as the U.S. and  Japan  may divert a
portion of their investment from China to  Europe . Chinese
enterprises are also looking at investment opportunities in
Europe. The crisis has given some opportunities to Chinese
companies to go abroad.”  “If no big incidents happen, China can offset a few
percentage points of impact from Europe through trade with
emerging nations and domestic consumption.”  On China Trade Data  “For the whole first half of this year, I estimate trade
growth may be a bit less than 10%.”  “If the EU crisis can be kept within a certain level in
second half of the year, I believe fulfilling an around 10%
target for trade growth for the full year is still possible.”  “This year’s foreign direct investment may be able to stay
at basically the same level as last year but it will be of
higher quality and to better projects.”  On Huawei and ZTE  “Huawei and ZTE have made deserved contributions to  China 
and global telecommunications. They are companies that operate
based on WTO rules.”  “Government subsidies to high-tech industries are present
to a certain extent globally. WTO didn’t forbid all forms of
subsidies.”  “Some developed nations have given serious subsidies to
their high-tech industries during their development stage.”  “We have conducted research on subsidies to industries
such as electronic communications, automotive, green energy and
agriculture.”  “We didn’t initiate trade measures as these issues are
being discussed in Doha and some developed nations have said
they will largely reduce these subsidies. Also, we need high
levels of technology to pull the world out of the economic
crisis, therefore we didn’t speak up about initiating
measures.”  “Not initiating measures doesn’t mean we don’t understand
the situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Regina Tan in Los Cabos at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  