-- China Leads Nations Boosting IMF’s Firewall to $456 Billion
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-06-19T04:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/china-leads-nations-boosting-imf-s-firewall-to-456-billion-1-.html
Emerging-market nations including
China and Brazil formalized funding pledges to the  International
Monetary Fund , helping to almost double its lending power to
protect the world economy from Europe’s debt turmoil.  With the addition of new pledges from 12 nations that also
includes Russia, India and South Africa, the Washington-based
lender said it now has received funding commitments of $456
billion, up from the roughly $430 billion it said it had secured
in April. The temporary contributions will add to the $380
billion the IMF currently has available for lending.  “Countries large and small have rallied to our call for
action,” IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a
statement on the sidelines of a Group of 20 summit, adding that
the new contributions would only be used as “second line of
defense” after existing resources are depleted.  G-20 leaders are gathering in the Mexican beach resort of
Los Cabos for a two-day summit dominated by the financial crisis
in the 17-country euro region just as Spanish borrowing costs
soar to a euro-era record. Canada and the U.S. abstained from
pitching in for the IMF, despite calls by German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  for the rest of the world to do more.  “It’s going to be the first time the fund is capitalized
without the U.S., which reflects the importance of  emerging
markets ,” Mexican President  Felipe Calderon  said on June 16.  Pledge Amounts  The meeting’s host said Mexico would contribute $10 billion
to the fund, matching pledge amounts made here by Russia, India
and Brazil. China said it will provide $43 billion, while South
Africa,  Colombia ,  Malaysia ,  New Zealand  and the  Philippines  were
among nations offering smaller amounts.  The second replenishing of the IMF’s coffers in three
years, while marking a victory for Lagarde, falls short of her
initial fundraising goal of $600 billion.  “There is concern that the firewall available may not be
adequate to deal with contagion,” Indian Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  told leaders at the summit yesterday. “The
resources currently expected to be mobilized by Europe and the
IMF are less than was estimated a year ago, and the crisis is
actually more serious.”  BRICS Pressure  After meeting yesterday, leaders from the so-called BRICS
group -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and  South Africa  --said in
a statement that their contribution was based on the expectation
that IMF members follow through “in a timely manner” on a 2010
pledge to give them a bigger say in how the IMF is run.  That includes an increase in their  voting rights  to better
reflect their growing weight in the world economy. The changes
aren’t yet in place because some nations including the U.S., the
largest IMF member nation, haven’t yet ratified the changes in
their legislatures.  “Emerging economies are bailing out Europe” and deserve a
seat a the decision-making table, Jasmine Burnley, a spokeswoman
for aid group Oxfam International, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It’s outrageous that a country the size of Belgium
has more voting weight at the IMF than South Africa or
Argentina.”  G-20 leaders focused their response to  Europe ’s financial
crisis on stabilizing the region’s banks, raising pressure on
Merkel to expand rescue measures as contagion from the crisis
engulfs Spain.  The IMF has also been pressing European officials to
increase fiscal and banking integration, including letting the
financial rescue mechanism recapitalize banks directly and by
issuing common bonds. European Union leaders will discuss paths
to closer political and economic union at a summit in Brussels
June 28-29.  The IMF, which is co-funding bailouts to Greece, Ireland
and Portugal, now has a very high concentration of its loans,
and therefore risks, in the region, Lagarde said on a panel in
Los Cabos on June 17.  “That requires clearly that very significant progress be
put in place,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Los Cabos at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  