-- China Steps Said to Grow Bond Market, Add Issuer Scrutiny
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-19T23:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/china-steps-said-to-grow-bond-market-add-issuer-scrutiny.html
China is allowing more companies to
trade bonds and increasing scrutiny over issuers as the
government seeks to ensure that the expansion of its nascent
 debt market  isn’t derailed by defaults.  The top economic planning agency ordered local governments
to examine the ability of companies to repay bonds maturing in
2012 and 2013, two people with direct knowledge of the matter
said yesterday, asking not to be identified as they weren’t
authorized to speak to media. China Securities Regulatory
Commission began allowing mutual funds to invest in private
placements by smaller companies, according to an agency document
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Chinese companies sold more debt in the first five months
of the year than in all of 2010 as the government encouraged
companies to boost fundraising through sales of equity and bonds
in a campaign to wean them off  loans  from state-owned banks and
make their finances more transparent. The growth is spurring
concern given that  China  has never had a domestic bond default,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  “It’s kind of a dilemma because for a  bond market  you must
face default sooner or later,” said Ivan Chung, an analyst at
Moody’s in  Hong Kong . Chinese officials “worry that one default
may cause a confidence crisis and people will lose faith in the
bond market,” he said.  China’s 4.2 trillion yuan ($659 billion) corporate bond
market is about 9 percent of its gross domestic product. In the
U.S., the $7.9 trillion in fixed-income securities is equal to
more than half the size of economic output.  Risk Monitoring  The  National Development and Reform Commission  ordered
local officials to set up risk monitoring and forecasting
mechanisms for debt maturing this year and next, the people
said. Companies that violate the monitoring rules and default
will be barred from selling more bonds, they said.  Local branches of the NDRC that submitted bond-sale
applications to the central commission for companies that later
default won’t be allowed to submit additional applications, the
people said. It wasn’t clear if the bans would be temporary or
permanent, the people said.  The main underwriters for defaulted debt will have their
bond issuance businesses either temporarily or permanently
halted as punishment, the people said.  The orders, outlined in documents issued by the NDRC and
dated May 15, were received by local officials this week, the
people said. They were issued because the risk of defaults is
increasing as the bond market expands, they said.  NDRC spokesman Li Pumin couldn’t be reached by telephone at
his office for comment.  ‘Chain Reaction’  One source of concern has been the borrowings of local
government finance vehicles set up by cities and provinces to
sidestep rules that barred them from directly taking bank loans
or selling bonds, Lion Fund Management Co. said.  China’s National Audit Office said in June 2011 that these
financing vehicles had 10.7 trillion  yuan  ($1.7 trillion) of
debt at the end of 2010, with 29 percent maturing in 2012 and
2013.  The NDRC is responsible for approving bond sales by these
financing vehicles. Local authorities set up the vehicles to
fund the construction of roads, bridges and stadiums, which
helped stave off the effects of the global financial crisis in
2008 and 2009.  “Any default could possibly have some  chain reaction  in
the system and I’m sure the government will take steps to
preempt that,” James Zhou, a bond fund manager at Lion Fund in
Shenzhen, said in an interview.  Innovation Needed  Guo Shuqing , chairman of the China Securities Regulatory
Commission, said in a March interview with the official People’s
Daily newspaper that the nation’s bond market needed innovation.
China’s debt and equities markets still “seriously” lag behind
the demands of the real economy, he said.  In less than two years, China has introduced  junk bonds ,
municipal debt and credit default swaps. The China Securities
Journal newspaper also reported in March that regulators were
preparing for trading of government bond futures.  The securities regulator began allowing mutual funds to buy
bonds sold by smaller companies with the provision that such
debt doesn’t exceed 10 percent of the fund’s net asset value,
according to the document obtained yesterday. Money-market
funds, which mainly invest in short-term securities, are also
excluded, according to the circular.  Funds that plan to invest in such debt should disclose the
securities’ liquidity and credit risk in the prospectus, the
CSRC file said. The rule takes effect June 15, it said.  Sales of corporate bonds surged to 511 billion yuan this
year through June 18 compared with 206 billion yuan for the same
period of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Local
government controlled companies sold 185 billion yuan of bonds
in the first five months compared with 118 billion yuan a year
earlier, according to Chinabond.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Steven Yang in Beijing at 
 kyang74@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  