-- China to Encourage Local Private Investment in Energy Projects
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-06-19T05:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/china-to-encourage-local-private-investment-in-energy-projects.html
China  pledged to increase
participation by domestic non-state companies in its  energy
industry  to accelerate oil exploration and electricity
generation, which are dominated by state enterprises.  Private companies will be “encouraged” and “guided” to
invest in oil and natural gas ventures in China, including
unconventional resources such as shale gas and coal-bed methane,
the Ministry of Land and Resources said in a  statement  on its
website yesterday. Non-state entities will be allowed equal
access to the power industry, the State Electricity Regulatory
Commission said in a  statement  today.  The announcements are part of a drive by the government to
foster competition in China’s energy industry and infrastructure
industries. The National Development and Reform Commission, the
country’s economic planning agency, said June 5 that a policy
framework would be announced this month to grant investors wider
access to traditionally state-controlled sectors such as oil,
power generation and transportation.  “It’s a huge step forward and the government looks
determined to break at least part of the state’s monopoly in
natural resources,” said Lin Boqiang, director of the
independent China Center for Energy Economics Research at Xiamen
University in  Fujian province .  “Private investment will push
state-owned companies to accelerate exploration, and may replace
them if they don’t want to move fast enough.”  Shale Gas  China, holder of the world’s biggest reserves of gas
trapped in shale rock, has yet to produce the fuel commercially
as state energy companies lack drilling technologies and need to
better understand the country’s geology. The land ministry said
in May it would allow private Chinese companies to bid in the
next auction of shale-gas exploration areas due this year.  “The government should quickly turn the talk into action,
releasing detailed regulations that guarantee interests of
private companies in such investment,” Lin said.  The State Electricity Regulatory Commission said today it
will open the electricity sector wider to private investment and
allow companies equal access to electricity generation,
distribution, design and construction businesses. The government
will ensure that private enterprises enjoy the same electricity
pricing policy as state companies and industry regulation would
become more transparent, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guo Aibing in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  