-- China Sees June Growth Rebound After Stimulus Measures: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-19T07:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/china-sees-june-growth-rebound-after-stimulus-measures-economy.html
China ’s commerce minister said his
nation’s economy is heading for a rebound this month following
government measures to support growth, adding to signals of
confidence among officials that the slowdown is ebbing.  “I personally think that the June situation is turning for
the better,”  Chen Deming  told reporters yesterday in Los Cabos,
Mexico, without specifying the signs of improvement. With a
“pretty obvious”  downward trend  the past two months, policy
makers took steps to shore up consumption, he said.  The comments build on weekend remarks by President  Hu Jintao  that China will “maintain steady and robust growth” and
by a central bank adviser who predicted the economy will bottom
out this quarter. While China has indicated it won’t embrace the
scale of the record stimulus unleashed in 2008, stabilizing its
expansion rate would avert a greater drag on a global rebound
hurt by Europe’s crisis and elevated U.S. unemployment.  “ China’s economy  has hit the bottom in May and a moderate
recovery has already started in June,” said  Ken Peng , an
economist in Beijing at BNP Paribas SA. With a policy response
that includes “accelerated infrastructure spending and relaxed
bank lending, there’s no reason for the June economic indicators
to worsen,” he said.  China’s annual gross domestic product will grow 7.4 percent
in the April-to-June period from a year earlier before picking
up to 8.5 percent in the last period of 2012, Peng forecasts.
First-quarter growth decelerated for a fifth period to 8.1
percent, the least in almost three years.  Stocks, Yuan  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks fell 0.2 percent at
4:04 p.m. in  Tokyo , while the yuan was little changed against
the dollar at 6.3563 in  Shanghai .  Chen said that his nation’s goal of 10 percent growth in
trade this year is “still possible” if the  European debt
crisis  can be contained in the second half. Exports from January
through May rose 8.7 percent from a year earlier, while imports
were up 6.7 percent. First-half trade gains “may be a bit less
than 10 percent,” he said.  Leaders from the Group of 20 are gathering today and
tomorrow in Los Cabos for a summit dominated by  Europe ’s crisis,
with the continent’s trading partners urging stronger action to
avert a euro-region meltdown. China will contribute $43 billion
to the International Monetary Fund’s expanded firewall against
turmoil, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Domestic Focus  The world’s most populous country has to “start our own
consumption so that domestic markets can help offset some
impacts from global trade,” Chen said. Besides the first
reduction in  interest rates  since 2008, China has in recent
weeks accelerated approvals for projects including clean energy
and lower-polluting  steel mills  to aid for first-home buyers.  China has allowed mutual funds to invest in private bond
placements by smaller companies in a new trial program,
according to a notice issued by the market regulator and
obtained today by Bloomberg News. The country also permitted the
first sales of high-yield bonds this month in a pilot program to
expand funding for businesses, according to stock-exchange
statements.  The interest-rate cut June 7 followed a similar move by
 Brazil  last month, and by  Australia  June 5.  India ’s central bank
yesterday unexpectedly held off, keeping borrowing costs
unchanged as that nation confronts inflation pressures.  A quarterly central bank survey of 3,000 bankers in China,
published today, found that 67.9 percent of respondents deem
current monetary policy “appropriate,” up 8.6 percentage
points from the previous quarter. About 32 percent said monetary
policy will be loosened next quarter, compared with 6.7 percent
in the prior survey.  ‘Balanced’ Discussion  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia lowered rates after a
“finely balanced” discussion on how the domestic economy was
holding up as global prospects worsened, according to a record
of this month’s meeting that was released today.  In the U.K., a report today may show that consumer prices
rose 3 percent in May from a year earlier, holding at the lowest
pace of gains in more than two years as oil and food prices fall,
according to a survey of economists by Bloomberg News.  Housing starts in the U.S. climbed to a 722,000 annual pace
in May, the fastest since October 2008, analysts anticipate a
report from the Commerce Department will show.  Economists are paring forecasts for China’s growth, with
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  seeing a 7.7 percent expansion this year,
the weakest pace since 1999. A slowdown in investment and past
curbs on home purchases added to weakness in exports in cooling
the economy. The median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News June 8-13 was for 8.2 percent expansion in 2012.  Targeted Steps  Hu said in a written interview with the Mexican newspaper
Reforma that China has taken “targeted measures to strengthen
and improve macroeconomic regulation, accelerate the shift of
the growth model, adjust economic structure and build long-term
mechanisms to boost domestic demand.” Xinhua reported the
comments on June 17.  Chen Yulu, an academic adviser to the People’s Bank of
China, said in a June 16 interview that the second quarter
“should be the lowest point” this year. Full-year growth
“should be able to hold up above 8 percent,” he said.  Even with steps to strengthen demand, Chinese authorities
have signaled the new stimulus won’t match that of measures from
the 2008 credit crisis. Total stimulus this year may be less
than one-third the size of the 5.4 trillion  yuan  fiscal and
monetary firepower of 2009, according to Peng Wensheng, chief
economist in Beijing at China International Capital Corp.  Cut’s Impact  A rebound this month may not be assured. Ma Jun, chief
China economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  Hong Kong , said the rate
cut will take some time to be felt throughout the economy.  In a separate briefing in Mexico yesterday, He Jianxiong,
director general of the People’s Bank of China international
department, said the institution will give greater consideration
to the environment outside China in deciding monetary policy.  Chen Deming urged nations to avoid trade protectionism, as
disputes simmer between the U.S. and China. The Asian country
doesn’t provide adequate data about subsidies and other
government assistance it gives to its domestic industries, the
 World Trade Organization  said in a June 12 report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Regina Tan in Los Cabos,  Mexico , at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net ;
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  