-- Chinese to Return to Luxury Stocks Over Basics: Chart of the Day
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-06-19T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/chinese-to-return-to-luxury-stocks-over-basics-chart-of-the-day.html
Shares of Chinese companies that
provide basic consumer needs and those that offer discretionary
products are diverging by the most in 16 months, a trend that is
poised to halt as  China  takes steps to boost economic growth.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the relationship between the
MSCI China Index’s consumer staples gauge and the discretionary
measure is at the lowest since February 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The correlation coefficient based on 120-day
observations has ranged between 0.63 and 0.66 since May 28. The
relationship averaged more than 0.80 during a six-month period
through March. A reading of 1 indicates the indexes move in
lockstep, while a value of zero shows there is no relationship.  The discretionary index, made up of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  that range from Gome Electrical Appliances
Holding Ltd. to automaker BYD Co., has dropped 6.2 percent this
year on concern the Chinese are cutting back on big-ticket
purchases as the economy cools. It’s the worst performer among
10 industry groups. The staples gauge has gained 1.6 percent.  Valuations of companies that make basic goods “are quite
stretched and competition remains quite fierce, so there are
more risks,” Gigi Chan, a  fund manager  at Threadneedle
Investments, which has $123.1 billion in assets under
management, said in a June 14 interview in Singapore. “We are
finding more interesting ideas in the discretionary space.”  HSBC Holdings Plc’s Hong Kong-based strategist Steven Sun
also recommends discretionary stocks, citing valuations, falling
interest rates and economic growth. “Cyclical” stocks trade at
12 times estimated profit on average, or at a 20 percent
discount to the five-year average, compared with 15 times for
“defensive” companies, the same discount at the end of 2008,
Sun said in a report. China announced on June 7 a cut in
borrowing costs for the first time since 2008.  The 19-company discretionary gauge also includes luxury-
watch retailer Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. and Geely Automobile
Holdings Ltd., while the 11-company staples measure includes
diaper maker Hengan International Group Co., Wumart Stores Inc.
and China Mengniu Dairy Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  