-- Cities Lead Effort to Curb Climate Change as Nations Lag
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-19T16:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/cities-lead-effort-to-curb-climate-change-as-nations-lag.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is
leading an effort by 58 of the world’s largest cities to reduce
greenhouse-gas emissions while federal governments struggle to
meet global targets following two decades of discussions.  The member-cities of the C40 Cities Climate Leadership
Group produce about 14 percent of the world’s greenhouse-gas
emissions. Their actions to improve  energy efficiency  and invest
in renewable power will reduce emissions by 248 million metric
tons in 2020, Bloomberg said on a conference call. The cities
can cut emissions by more than 1 billion tons by 2030, or the
equivalent annual output from Mexico and Canada.  Mayors, who have oversight of agencies responsible for more
than three quarters of urban emissions, may be able to implement
policies faster than federal governments, former U.S. President
 Bill Clinton  said on the call. Cities that enact new rules and
regulations and share their findings may help nations meet
global environmental targets, such as reducing methane emissions
from landfills, one of the most potent  greenhouse gases .  “We can buy the world another 10 to 20 years from the
worst effects of global warming if we go after methane,”
Clinton said on the call. “It will improve the quality of life
for everyone.”  The C40 group’s effort to reduce methane emissions will
start in  Dar es Salaam , Tanzania; Dhaka,  Bangladesh , and the
suburbs of Jakarta, Rachel Kyte, vice president for sustainable
development at the  World Bank , said today at a C40 press
conference in Rio de Janeiro.  Garbage Doubling  “The volume of garbage is going to double over the next 15
years,” she said. Taking steps to address emissions from that
waste will be a “triple win,” by improving health, curbing
 climate change  and making cities more livable. “Cities are the
crucibles of innovation and it’s all going to start here.”  The  C40 mayors  are urging world leaders to pursue
sustainability initiatives at the Rio+20 conference, where
delegates from 190 nations will discuss steps to eradicate
poverty while stemming environmental degradation. The event
marks two decades since the first Earth Summit.  Eduardo Paes, the city’s mayor, said he wants to close
landfills on the shores of Guanabara Bay. “It’s not permissible
to have a city hosting the Earth Summit and 20 years later we
still have these landfills, he said at the press briefing.  Cities including  Hong Kong , Sydney,  Los Angeles  and New
York have undertaken more than 5,000 actions to cut emissions
since the C40 was formed in 2005. Today they are starting an
effort to share methods of reducing methane from landfills with
support from the World Bank and the U.S. State Department.  Living Longer  ‘‘Life expectancy in New York City is now three years
longer than the national average,’’ Bloomberg said. ‘‘There’s no
question that if you clean the air and clean the water, it
improves lives.’’  Clinton chastised world leaders for failing to enact
policies to curb climate change, sometimes because environmental
goals are hindered by the political process.      Mayors have
fewer barriers to enacting sustainability policies, and are
leading by example, he said. ‘‘The power of example is more
powerful than a speech by a head of state.’’  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News’s
parent, Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  