-- Clemens Hall of Fame Jury Won’t Be Swayed by Not-Guilty Verdict
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/clemens-hall-of-fame-jury-won-t-be-swayed-by-not-guilty-verdict.html
The not guilty verdict in  Roger Clemens ’s perjury case is unlikely to sway baseball’s Hall of
Fame voters who’ve spent years deciding whether accusations of
steroid use should keep the seven-time Cy Young Award winner
from being enshrined.  Clemens, 49, was acquitted by a federal court jury in
Washington yesterday on all charges of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury after telling a U.S. House
panel in 2008 that he hadn’t used performance-enhancing drugs.  In December, a different jury -- comprised of more than 550
 Baseball Writers Association of America  members -- also will
rule on Clemens, deciding if the 354-game winner is worthy of
the sport’s highest honor. Clemens will become eligible for Hall
of Fame induction for the first time, in a class that includes
 Barry Bonds ,  Sammy Sosa , Mike Piazza,  Curt Schilling  and Craig Biggio.  “Nothing that happens in this trial is going to change my
perception,” Ken Rosenthal, a reporter for Foxsports.com who
also works baseball games on News Corp.’s Fox network, said in
an interview prior to the verdict. “I just believe there’s
enough smoke to say that he used performance-enhancing drugs. Do
I have legal proof? No. Do I need legal proof to vote one way or
another? No.”  Clemens gave an almost three-minute statement following his
acquittal, though declined to comment about his Hall of Fame
prospects.  “Nothing for now,” he said. “We’re just trying to make
plans to get people back to work.”  Life Tarnished  Clemens, who won a record seven Cy Young Awards as the best
pitcher in his league, was mentioned 82 times in a December 2007
report by former U.S. Senator  George Mitchell  that concluded a
20-month investigation into performance-enhancing drug use in
 Major League Baseball .  Clemens’s attorney,  Rusty Hardin , said after the Mitchell
report’s release that his client was forever tarnished by the
findings.  “He is left with no meaningful way to combat what he
strongly contends are totally false allegations,” Hardin said
at the time.  It’s been 4 1/2 years since the report was released, giving
members of the BBWAA plenty of time to debate Clemens’s career.
His trial was a non-factor in weighing the pitcher’s credentials,
said Richard Justice, a columnist for MLB.com who has a Hall
vote.  “Roger has a great attorney who has managed to put
everybody on trial except for Roger,” Justice said in a
telephone interview prior to the verdict. “I trust the Mitchell
report.”  Steroids Taint  Justice, who covered Clemens extensively during the right-
hander’s stint with the Houston Astros, is among the writers
who’ve said they won’t vote for players they believe cheated the
game with drug use.  “I just can’t vote for him,” Justice said. “He was
unbelievable as a teammate and a competitor when I was around
him, but I have this naïve notion of the Hall of Fame. Does he
deserve to stand up there with Frank Robinson and  Hank Aaron ?”  Bob Nightengale, a columnist for  USA Today , is among the
writers who have decided to disregard steroid use in judging
players’ Hall worthiness. He said he’ll vote for Clemens every
year he’s eligible.  “There’s a lot of guys whose names have never been made
public that I’m convinced were juiced,” Nightengale said. “Why
keep a guy like a Bonds or Clemens out and let these other guys
in just because they weren’t caught?”  Bonds Conviction  Bonds, the seven-time National League Most Valuable Player
who hit a record 762 home runs, was convicted in April 2010 by a
federal jury in San Francisco of obstructing a U.S. probe of
steroid use by professional athletes. Jurors were unable to
agree on whether Bonds lied when he told a grand jury in 2003
that he didn’t knowingly take steroids, didn’t take human growth
hormone and didn’t receive injections from his trainer. A
mistrial was declared on those counts. He was sentenced to two
years probation and 30 days of house arrest, and appealed the
ruling in December.  The Mitchell report identified Bonds, a former outfielder,
as a steroid user.  Rosenthal said he hasn’t decided whether he’ll vote for
Clemens, though he refuses to disregard steroid concerns just
because of the complexity of the issue and uncertainties about
who was a user.  “To not consider these things and simply vote on the
numbers, in my view, is a copout,” Rosenthal said.  McGwire’s Fate  The first player to come up for Hall election whose
statistics and steroid ties each merited consideration was  Mark McGwire , whose 583 home runs are 10th all time and who held the
single-season record at 70 before Bonds hit 73 in 2001. McGwire,
who acknowledged in 2010 that he used steroids, has been
eligible for the Hall for six years, never gaining more than
23.5 percent of the vote. With 75 percent needed for induction,
he received 19.5 percent in 2012.  The Hall of Fame ballot includes the sentence: “Voting
shall be based upon the player’s record, playing ability,
integrity, sportsmanship, character, and contributions to the
team(s) on which the player played.”  That creates a complex equation for voters to solve in
judging any player, let alone those who might have cheated by
using steroids, which were banned by baseball in 1991.  Visitors entering the  National Baseball Hall of Fame  in
Cooperstown,  New York , see an exhibit called “Today’s Game”
that covers the sport’s recent history. The display includes a
sign that says steroids and other drugs have affected all of
sports and baseball is no exception. There are no labels tying
performance-enhancers to specific athletes or achievements.  ‘Larger Story’  “Over time, the story of drug use and the impact on the
game will probably be a larger story to tell, but for now we
believe visitors to the museum can make their own decision,”
Brad Horn, a spokesman for the Hall, said in a telephone
interview.  The Hall has entrusted its main voting to the BBWAA since
it opened in 1936, “regardless of any scenario,” Horn said.
Candidates must have played at least 10 major-league seasons and
been retired for five. Players named on 5 percent of ballots
remain eligible the following year and eligibility expires after
15 years on the ballot.  Active and past BBWAA members who have been baseball
writers for at least 10 years may vote. Several news
organizations, including Bloomberg News, do not permit their
employees to participate. Voting concludes Dec. 31 and the
year’s Hall of Fame class is announced in early January.  Honor Wishes  Clemens, who made $150.6 million during his career,
according to Baseball-Reference.com, would have faced as much as
21 months in prison had he been found guilty. Asked how the Hall
would have handled a possible Clemens induction ceremony in July
2013 with its guest of honor absent, Horn said the museum would
have respected the writers’ wishes and honored Clemens “without
regard to circumstance.”  Clemens retired after the 2007 season with a 354-184 record,
a 3.12 earned run average and 4,672 strikeouts, a total that
ranks third in major-league history behind  Nolan Ryan  and  Randy Johnson .  “Winning seven Cy Young Awards would put him head and
shoulders above everybody else,” Peter Golenbock, a baseball
historian and author, said in a telephone interview. “I don’t
know about all-time but certainly of his generation.”  Clemens broke into the majors with the  Boston Red Sox  in
1984 and won the American League Cy Young in 1986 at 23, going
24-4 with a 2.48 ERA while setting a record by striking out 20
batters in a single game.  Play Declined  His play declined during his final four seasons in  Boston ,
when he went 40-39 with an ERA over 4.00. Playing for the
 Toronto Blue Jays  in 1997 and 1998, Clemens went 41-13 to lead
the AL in ERA and wins.  It’s in 1998 that Clemens’s former trainer,  Brian McNamee ,
told jurors that he began giving Clemens injections of steroids
and HGH. Clemens also received the banned drugs in 2000 and 2001
while pitching for the  New York Yankees , McNamee alleged.  McNamee’s testimony didn’t convince the jury, nor did the
syringe he provided that had both steroids and Clemens’s DNA on
it.  Andy Pettitte , a former teammate with the Yankees and
 Houston Astros  who has acknowledged using HGH, also testified to
the jury that Clemens told him about his own use of performance-
enhancing drugs.  “It doesn’t matter,” said Golenbock, who doesn’t have a
Hall vote. “His trainer is telling people that he took them.
Other people are telling people that he took them. People who
took them are saying he took them. It’s the situation for the
Hall of Fame that you are guilty unless somehow you can prove
yourself innocent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 