-- Congress Seeks to Finish U.S. Highway Bill This Week, Boxer Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-06-19T22:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/congress-seeks-to-finish-u-s-highway-bill-this-week-boxer-says.html
House-Senate negotiators are trying
to finish work this week on legislation to extend U.S. highway-
construction programs, Senator  Barbara Boxer  said after meeting
with congressional leaders.  The California Democrat met with House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
a Nevada Democrat, and  House Transportation  and Infrastructure
Committee Chairman  John Mica , a Florida Republican, today to
discuss options on some version of a two-year, $109 billion
spending plan.  Reid and Boehner “told Chairman John Mica and me to finish
our work this week on the transportation bill,” Boxer said in a
statement following the meeting. “I have asked Chairman Mica to
meet continually over the next several days to achieve this
deadline.”  Boxer has been leading a conference committee trying to
work out a deal to authorize highway construction and mass
transit programs beyond their current expiration date of June
30. Today’s meeting followed a week with no signs of progress in
negotiations.  Without a long-term bill or extension, taxing and U.S.
spending authority for highways and transit also run out,
cutting off money to states for programs funded by the Highway
Trust Fund such as safety and repairs. Thousands of construction
and government workers would probably be laid off.  Mica said both chambers’ leaders still want a bill done and
he was going to review a new offer sent over from the Senate.  “Tomorrow, we’ll see where we are,” Mica told reporters
emerging from the meeting in Boehner’s Capitol office. “We’re
going to take it hour by hour and see if we can get the job
done.”  Heavy Lifting  Representative Reid Ribble, a Wisconsin Republican who has
been negotiating language that would shorten environmental
reviews of highway projects, said Senator  James Inhofe , an
Oklahoma Republican, assured House members that the Senate still
wanted a bill at a House Republican conference meeting today.  The heavy lifting will be done this week, or there will be
some kind of short-term extension of current law, Ribble said.  “The leadership is going to try to pound this out,”
Ribble told reporters off the House floor. “For a while it felt
almost as if they were stonewalling it, but we’re kind of
getting to D-Day now, and they’ve got to get it done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  