-- Copper Rallies for Fifth Session on Signs of Demand Gains
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-06-19T18:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/copper-rallies-for-fifth-session-on-signs-of-demand-gains.html
Copper futures rose, extending the
longest rally in seven weeks, on signs of recovery in the U.S.
housing market and prospects for higher demand in  China , the
world’s largest consumer of industrial metals.  Building permits, a proxy for future construction, were the
highest in May since September 2008, and construction of single-
family houses gained, U.S. data showed today.  China’s economy 
may be improving in June on measures to support growth, Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming  said. The dollar fell the most in seven
months against a basket of currencies, boosting the appeal of
commodities as alternative assets.  “Housing permits rose, and the idea is circulating now
that China’s economy is going to pick up,” Sterling Smith, a
commodity analyst at Citigroup Inc.’s institutional client group
in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “The dollar broke
lower, and that also helped push things along.”  Copper futures for September delivery rose 1.1 percent to
settle at $3.441 a pound at 1:23 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
The price climbed for fifth straight session, the longest rally
since May 1.  Construction generates more than 40 percent of U.S. demand
for copper, used in pipes and wiring, according to the  Copper
Development Association . Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
climbed in June to a five-year high, based on the National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index released
yesterday.  “Evidence continues to mount that the U.S. new-home
industry has entered a new growth cycle,”  Michael Shaoul , the
New York-based chairman of Marketfield Asset Management, said in
an e-mail.  The  Federal Reserve ’s Open Market Committee, which sets the
course of central bank policy, begins a two-day meeting today to
decide whether more monetary stimulus is needed to boost growth.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose 1.3 percent to $7,609 a metric ton ($3.45 a pound).  Nickel, zinc, tin and lead also gained on the LME, while
aluminum dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  