-- Could Egypt’s Crisis Doom the Arab Spring?
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-06-19T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/could-egypt-s-crisis-doom-the-arab-spring-.html
From the moment the Egyptian regime
was toppled in February 2011, the nation’s military and its
Islamic democrats were set on a collision course. Now we’re
seeing the crash.  Aided by a Constitutional Court ruling rolling back
parliamentary elections, the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces
has  dissolved parliament  and appointed 100 “experts” to write
a new constitution. For good measure, the military stripped the
powerful Egyptian presidency of existing powers -- just in time,
because the next day it became clear that Mohamed Mursi, the
candidate of the Muslim Brotherhood, had won the presidency.
Parliament plans to convene next week with its own
constitutional committee.  Egypt  is far beyond constitutional
crisis: It is teetering on the edge of collapse.  For those who greeted last year’s Arab Spring with
excitement and optimism, it may be surprising that the central
conflict in Egyptian politics is between the military and the
Islamists. After all, it was a cross-section of Egyptian
society, galvanized and to some degree led by young secularists,
that brought the country to a standstill and a long-serving
dictator to his knees. In demanding freedom, Egypt seemed to
have reclaimed its historic position at the vanguard of the
Arab world.  Complicated Revolt  But experienced observers knew that the Egyptian situation
was far more complicated than it seemed from watching the grave
and joyful protesters in Tahrir Square. For one thing, the
protesters didn’t actually bring down  Hosni Mubarak , the former
dictator who suffered stroke on Tuesday. By refusing to leave
the square even under intense and violent pressure from the
police, they weakened the president drastically. It was the army
that delivered the coup de grace.  The night before Mubarak was forced from office, he was
still insisting that he could stick it out. Alone, the
protesters probably could not have forced him to resign. By
declaring Mubarak’s presidency over, the military asserted that
it was ultimately in charge. This decision to jettison Mubarak
did not stem from ideals, but rather from the fact that Mubarak
was aging and there was no easy transition in sight. The
military council was gambling that it could ride out the wave of
public unrest more effectively without the figurehead of
traditional autocracy.  As for the Islamists, they rallied to the cause of the Arab
Spring only very late in the game -- after it became clear that
their absence would permanently damage their credibility with
the public. The Muslim Brotherhood knew perfectly well that most
of the people in  Tahrir Square  were not its constituents. Nearly
a century of resistance to Egypt’s succession of corrupt
monarchs and autocrats had taught the Brothers that quiescence,
not revolt, was the way to stay alive.  Yet the Brotherhood came up with a brilliant strategy for
the medium term: to gain power through democratic action. A
protest movement, no matter how broad-based, is not the same as
a formal election. Demonstrations involve speaking up,
spontaneous action and bravery. Politics requires deep
organization, legwork and stolid respectability.  The Brotherhood believed, correctly, that regime change
would lead to an election. And they knew they could shine. Since
the Algerian elections of 1990, Islamic democrats had won the
majority of the seats they contested in every even modestly free
election in the Arabic-speaking world.  The Brothers were lucky. The peaceful revolutionaries of
Tahrir Square were instinctual democrats. Whether out of
sincerity, naivete or a combination, they demanded elections
that were sure to deny them power. The military went along. The
Brotherhood won the biggest share in the parliament -- and now
it has won the presidency, too.  Popular Will  So the army represents the traditional power structure in
Egypt, and the Brotherhood represents the will of the people as
it would be defined in an ordinary democracy. Their clash is the
real thing: a head-to-head confrontation between autocratic
force and popular majoritarianism. Its resolution will
determine, to a great extent, the future of democracy in the
entire Arab world. It will determine once and for all whether
the Arab Spring was real.  The struggle could be peacefully resolved in several ways -
- none very likely. The Brotherhood could fold, accepting the
position of token power under the thumb of the military, as its
Moroccan wing has done under King Muhammad VI. This would mean
sacrificing credibility as well as ideology. If the Brotherhood
were to accept such a wholly a subordinate position, it would
squander its historic opportunity to marry religious legitimacy
with constitutional democracy -- its goal for the past two
decades.  Alternatively, in a perfect Brotherhood world, the public
would return to the streets in opposition to the army and the
Supreme Council could back down, accepting the Brotherhood’s
electoral victory in exchange for a promise to allow the
military to keep its $1 billion-plus in annual U.S. aid. The
difficulty is that a substantial minority -- 48 percent -- of
Egyptians voted for the military’s preferred presidential
candidate, Ahmed Shafik.  Given the extent of its public support, there is little
reason for the army to go gently. Nor will it be content to
control a U.S.-bankrolled military fiefdom -- the generals know
that over time, the Brotherhood will try to change the army by
urging the promotion of younger, Islamist officers.  There is one model for compromise between the Brotherhood
and the military, in which genuine power-sharing subsists over
time:  Turkey  since the  Justice and Development Party  took power
in 2002. The Turkish military has gradually lost its controlling
place in government, a fact the Supreme Council will not ignore.
But Turkey is comparatively rich, stable and happy -- and that,
too, is relevant.  Egyptians would also do well to recall the example of
 Algeria . After the first contemporary Arab democratic experiment
took place there two decades ago, the military reacted to
Islamist victory by reversing the electoral results and
declaring martial law. The war that followed lasted for years.
More than 100,000 people were killed in vicious guerilla
fighting. Unless the Muslim Brotherhood and the military can
find common ground soon, Egypt will be on a similar path.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on Egypt’s de facto  coup d’etat 
and on a capital gains-corporate income  tax deal ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  Washington ’s other  dysfunctional government ; Clive
Crook on why the  European Central Bank  must act;  Peter Orszag  on
 mandatory voting  in the U.S.; Carl Pope on the rise of  renewable
energy  in  emerging markets .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 