-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Drop as Spain Meets Debt Auction Target
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-06-19T21:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/credit-swaps-in-u-s-drop-as-spain-meets-debt-auction-target.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate debt risk
fell as Spain met a debt-auction target, easing concern that the
nation would be cut off from credit markets, and as the  Federal
Reserve  meets to consider stimulus measures.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 3.8
basis points to a mid-price of 115.5 basis points at 5:04 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  rose after the retailer said
yesterday that its president was leaving.  Spain, whose 10-year bond  yields  climbed above 7 percent
this week for the first time since the creation of the euro,
sold 3.04 billion euros ($3.8 billion) of bills in an auction
with a 3 billion-euro target. The  Federal Open Market Committee 
began a two-day meeting today to weigh steps to counter signs of
a slowing recovery amid concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
contaminate the  U.S. economy .  “There was good news with the auction for Spain this
morning,”  Scott MacDonald , head of research at MC Asset
Management Holdings LLC in  Stamford , Connecticut, said in a
telephone interview. And speculation that the Fed will take
measures to boost economic growth means “people today are
probably going to look at the news more as the cup is more half-
full than half-empty.”  The U.S. central bank is scheduled to release its statement
on  interest rates  and the economy tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. in
Washington.  Housing Starts  The benchmark measure fell even as Commerce Department data
showed U.S. housing starts in May declined more than forecast.
Starts fell 4.8 percent to an annual pace of 708,000, compared
with a revised 744,000 rate for April that was the highest since
October 2008. Economists had forecast a rate of 722,000, the
median of 77 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  “You don’t want to fight the Fed if they’re really going
to ease,” Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS Investments in  New
York  who oversees $3 billion in fixed-income funds, said in a
telephone interview.  J.C. Penney, the fourth-largest U.S. department-store
chain, said president  Michael Francis  will leave the Plano,
Texas-based company, without giving a reason for his departure.
The retailer reported a $163 million loss in the first three
months of the year, its third  straight  quarterly loss, as
revenue plunged 20 percent.  ’Losing Patience’  Contracts protecting the company’s debt against default for
five years increased 1.3 percentage points to 7.5 percent
upfront, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a
year, meaning it would cost $750,000 initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of J.C. Penney’s debt.  “The market is quickly losing patience with the turnaround
attempts,”  Adrian Miller , director of global markets strategy
at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said of J.C. Penney in a
telephone interview. The department-store chain must show
consistent improvement before it can “regain the confidence
that has obviously been lost,” he said.  The swaps gauge typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  