-- Indonesia Sees Strength Among Banks: Southeast Asia
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-06-22T08:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/crisis-survivor-indonesia-sees-banking-strength-southeast-asia.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph to say year since reserves
quadrupled was 1998, in story originally published on June 20.)  Indonesia  will strengthen banking
supervision to ensure that lenders stay insulated from fallout
from Europe’s crisis, the incoming head of the country’s new
financial regulator said.  Commercial banks have about 154 trillion rupiah ($16
billion) of exposure to Europe, through channels including trade
finance and money markets, a fraction of their more than 3,000
trillion rupiah in assets, Muliaman Hadad, a central bank deputy
governor, said in an interview yesterday. Lending growth in
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy was an annual 28 percent pace
in May, underscoring domestic strength, he said.  “While we’re facing a crisis risk from Europe, the
performance of our banking industry is shining,” Hadad said in
his office at  Bank Indonesia  in Jakarta. “The industry, as the
main engine for the economy, is still growing amid the turmoil
in Europe.”  Hadad, 52, was a senior analyst at the central bank when
the Asian financial crisis forced Indonesia,  Thailand  and  South
Korea  to tap International Monetary Fund bailouts totaling about
$100 billion as their currencies plummeted. As deputy governor,
he has overseen lenders in an economy where foreign-exchange
reserves have more than quadrupled since 1998, and growth has
exceeded 6 percent since 2010 as investment surged.  Regulator’s Birth  Parliament late yesterday approved Hadad to head the board
of a national financial regulator due to start operating in
January 2013. The new regulator, known in the Indonesian
language as Otoritas Jasa Keuangan, or OJK, will supervise
 capital markets , insurers, pension funds and other nonbank
institutions next year and oversee commercial lenders starting
in January 2014.  “This body will be positive for our financial market as it
will combine all the regulators” from the banking and non-
banking industries, said Edimon Ginting, a Jakarta-based senior
economist at the  Asian Development Bank . “So far, the banking
industry is still controlling Indonesia’s financial market, and
if all the regulators are in one body, the capital and bonds
markets will improve,” helping increase sources of financing
beyond banks for long-term infrastructure projects, he said.  Hadad, who has a master’s in public education from  Harvard
University  and a doctorate in business and economics from  Monash
University  in  Melbourne , will lead a seven-member board that
will include Nelson Tampubolon, a former director in the
International Directorate at the central bank, Nurhaida,
chairwoman of the Financial Market and Financial Institutions
Supervisory Agency at the Ministry of Finance, and  Rahmat Waluyanto , director general of debt management at the Ministry
of Finance.  Board Tussle  The board was chosen by parliament after so-called fit-and-
proper tests this month on the 14 people nominated by President
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono.  The selection of the agency’s board membership followed a
months-long tussle between lawmakers and the government over the
leadership of an agency set to take over regulation of a
financial industry dominated by banks that are products of a
restructuring in the aftermath of the 1997-98 Asian crisis.  A parliamentary committee, which started meeting in 2010,
agreed in October last year to the government’s proposal for a
board composition that excluded guaranteed slots for lawmakers
to reduce the risk of political interference. Parliament had
wanted two of its members in the mix. The  World Bank  and Moody’s
Investors Service were among those calling for Indonesian
financial regulators to be non-politicized.  Good Experience  “They have Muliaman as chairman, which is good because he
has good experience to supervise the banking industry,” Ginting
said. “I believe this body will be independent as all the
people who will run this body are from the financial market, and
this composition will create confidence in the market.”  Hadad said yesterday that countering corruption will be a
priority. Indonesia spent 450 trillion rupiah to rescue lenders
during the Asian financial crisis, when anger over corruption
during Suharto’s regime helped topple the dictator in 1998.  Among the regulatory issues facing supervisors now is
Singapore’s DBS Group Holdings Ltd.’s 66 trillion-rupiah
takeover offer for  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia. (BDMN)  The purchase may
be affected by the central bank’s consideration of restrictions
on single-entity ownership of the country’s lenders.  Banks may be allowed to own as much as 90 percent of
commercial lenders, Hadad told reporters in response to
questions after giving a speech at a seminar in Jakarta today.
Approval would be “very selective,” he said. The new ownership
rules will be announced before July, he said.  Most Indonesian bank stocks gained in Jakarta trading today.
Bank Danamon rose 0.9 percent to 5,800 rupiah as of 10.29 a.m.
 PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BBRI)  jumped 0.8 percent to 6,000 rupiah and
 PT Bank Internasional Indonesia (BNII)  gained 2.4 percent to 435 rupiah.
The Jakarta Composite index advanced 0.7 percent.  ‘No Loopholes’  “Due to the turmoil in Europe, business is not as usual,”
Hadad said. “We have to make sure there are no loopholes in the
supervision, to ensure investors feel certain they can do
business in Indonesia.”  Policy makers have also confronted a tumbling currency. The
rupiah has fallen about 4.4 percent this year, the worst
performer in  Asia  after India’s rupee, as the escalating
European crisis hurt exports and spurred outflows from  emerging
markets .  Bank Indonesia  kept the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low 5.75 percent for a fourth month in June, holding off
from easing policy to support the weakening currency.  “ Risk aversion  is still happening,” Hadad said yesterday.
“We can’t say that everything will be sorted out; we need to
keep vigilant about what’s happening in Europe.”  Foreign Exchange  Bank Indonesia is preparing various instruments for hedging
and to increase the supply of foreign exchange, Governor Darmin Nasution said June 15, without providing details. The central
bank has prepared measures to anticipate a worsening of the
Europe crisis, he said.  The central bank last month raised the rates on central
bank bills and term deposits to absorb liquidity. It also
started offering dollar term deposits this month to boost supply
of the currency locally and stabilize the rupiah.  Group of 20 leaders are meeting in Los Cabos,  Mexico , to
try to agree on a response to the crisis. Yesterday they focused
their response on stabilizing banks as the IMF raised its
lending capacity to shield the rest of the world economy.  “Our condition will depend on how fast Europe can solve
the crisis,” Hadad said. “So I agreed with G-20, that everyone
asked Europe to resolve the crisis soon.”  Indonesia’s economy grew 6.46 percent last year, the
fastest pace since before the Asian financial crisis, as rising
investment and domestic spending countered a slowdown in export
demand. The central bank expects lending to grow as much as 25
percent this year, Hadad said yesterday.  “Indonesia’s banking industry is still promising as we
have a big market with higher economic growth potential,” Hadad
said. “There’s no reason for us to be pessimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  