-- Crop Prices Seen Climbing by Societe Generale on U.S. Heat
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-06-19T16:02:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/crop-prices-seen-climbing-by-societe-generale-on-u-s-heat-1-.html
Corn and soybean markets face
“upside price risks” as hot weather in the U.S. may reduce
yields,  Societe Generale  SA said.  Corn may average $6.26 a bushel in 2012 if yields in the
U.S. average 161.4 bushels an acre, the bank said today in an e-
mailed report. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  has projected
yields of 166 bushels an acre. Soybeans may average $14.02 a
bushel if yields are 43.4 bushels an acre, Societe Generale
said. That compares with the USDA’s forecast of 43.9 bushels an
acre. The bank said it may adjust both yield and price estimates
because of weather concerns.  “Recent weather has already taken its toll on the corn
crop,” Christopher Narayanan, Societe Generale’s head of
agricultural research in  New York , wrote in the report. “Given
the current and forecasted weather risks, the large
replenishment of supplies expected this autumn could easily fall
short and raise prices above our current forecasts.”  Corn surged 10 percent yesterday and today after the USDA
cut its ratings for crop conditions in the nation. The grain
reached $5.5725 a bushel by 10:36 a.m. today on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Soybeans gained 5.5 percent in the same span to
$13.86 a bushel.  Prospects for soybean supplies may be “even more dire”
than for corn because global inventories of the oilseed are
already tight following drought that reduced harvests in  South
America , Narayanan wrote.  “While we will continue to monitor weather and crop
conditions for the time being, the chances are increasing for us
to adjust our yield, and ultimately price, forecasts,” he
wrote. “We maintain a bearish outlook on U.S. corn and soybean
production and, as a result, see more upside, rather than
downside, risk to our current price forecast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  