-- Cypriot Government Blames Former Central Banker for Bank Losses
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-06-19T16:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/cypriot-government-blames-former-central-banker-for-bank-losses.html
Cyprus government spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou  said former central bank governor  Athanasios Orphanides 
is responsible for billions of euros in losses sustained by
Cypriot banks last year.  Orphanides “deficiently exercised his duties” causing
“billions of euros in losses for the banks and the Cypriot
economy,” Stefanou said today in an e-mailed statement.
Stefanou was responding to an  open letter  from Orphanides to
Cyprus President Demetris Christofias, published today by the
 Inbusiness  website.  In the letter, Orphanides said Christofias and his
communist party AKEL are carrying out a “relentless
communication war” against the Cypriot banking system. The
president delayed corrective fiscal measures and consented to
the writedown of Greek  government bonds , and is responsible for
4 billion euros ($5 billion) in bank losses, Orphanides alleged
in the letter.  Orphanides wasn’t reappointed after his five-year term
expired at the end of April. He was replaced by Panicos Demetriades. Orphanides, a former Federal Reserve economist,
said on June 15 he will begin teaching at MIT Sloan School of
Management later this year.  Orphanides declined to comment on Stefanou's statement 
when contacted today.   European authorities are pushing Cyprus to take a full
bailout package worth as much as 10 billion euros, resisting the
country’s attempt to limit any aid to its banking system, two
officials said today.  Cyprus would be the fifth of 17 nations to take a financial
lifeline. It’s angling for banking assistance to escape the
oversight required in the programs granted to Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal , said the European Union officials who asked not to
be named because the talks are private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  