-- Cyprus Said to Face Europe Pressure for $13 Billion Aid
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-06-19T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/cyprus-said-to-face-europe-pressure-for-eu10-billion-aid-program.html
European authorities are pushing
Cyprus to take a full bailout package worth as much as 10
billion euros ($12.7 billion), resisting the country’s attempt
to limit any aid to its  banking system , two officials said.  Bargaining with Cyprus, which is also pursuing a loan from
 Russia , will continue on June 21 when euro-area finance
ministers grapple with salvaging  Spain ’s banking system and a
possible relaxation of Greek aid terms. If the Russian loan
comes through, the country could use that agreement to improve
its bargaining position with its euro-bloc partners.  “We have to obtain financing to recapitalize the banks;
this is unavoidable,” Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly told
reporters in Nicosia yesterday. If euro-area cash comes with too
many strings attached, Cyprus will have other options, he said.
“Your negotiating position in talks with the European Union is
much better when you have a bilateral loan already approved.”  Cyprus is angling for banking assistance to escape the
oversight required in the programs granted to Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal , said the EU officials who asked not to be named
because the talks are private. Cyprus would be the fifth of 17
nations to take a financial lifeline, since Spain is already in
talks for a rescue limited to its banks.  Russian Loan  The Russian Finance Ministry hasn’t received an official
loan request from Cyprus, a spokesperson said, speaking on
condition of anonymity in line with ministry rules. Cyprus also
hasn’t yet put in a bid for euro-area aid.  Cyprus, which joined the EU in 2004 and the euro in 2008,
defied European pressure to make a request before the Greek
election on June 17, one of the officials said.  The  European Central Bank  and European Commission want to
link any request with the intrusive oversight since the sums
under consideration would surpass half of Cyprus’s 18 billion-
euro gross domestic product, dwarfing the size of previous
packages, the officials said.  Shiarly said that unlike a loan from Russia, European aid
would come with conditions, probably including implementation of
the European Commission’s recent  recommendations  intended to
rectify macroeconomic imbalances and overhaul the Cypriot
economy.  Pavel Medvedev, an adviser to Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, said he “wouldn’t be surprised” if Russia extended a
second loan to Cyprus in as many years. Last December, Russia
lent 2.5 billion euros to the island nation.  Buy Shares  The government needs as much as 6 billion euros over two
years for the banks, which have been hit by losses in  Greece ,
Michael Sarris, chairman of Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the
island’s second-largest, said on June 15. The government will
probably need funds to buy shares in a 1.8 billion-euro rights
offer by Cyprus Popular, he said. Last year, the bank posted
more than 3.6 billion euros in losses, mainly on Greek
government debt writedowns.  Cyprus’s lenders may lose access to ECB funding after
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the country’s ratings,
Sarris said. He said Cyprus Popular has been servicing its
funding gap in Greece from Cyprus because the lender doesn’t
have access to Greece’s Emergency Liquidity Assistance.  For economist Bernard Musyck, a loan agreement with Russia
could reduce Cyprus’s appetite for reforms and may not avert a
European bailout.  “It looks like the government is shifting the
responsibility of honoring the loan to the next administration
and confronting it with a fait accompli,” said Musyck, a former
analyst for Moody’s who now teaches economics at  Frederick
University  in Nicosia.  “The next government may need a bailout to pay back the
loans,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  