-- Cyprus Seeks Russian Loan to Improve Terms If EU Rescue Needed
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-06-19T14:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/cyprus-seeks-russian-loan-to-improve-terms-if-eu-rescue-needed.html
Cyprus, which may need as much as 6
billion euros ($7.6 billion) to prop up its banks, is pursuing a
loan from  Russia  to improve its bargaining position in case it
has to turn to its euro-area partners for emergency aid.  “We have to obtain financing to recapitalize the banks;
this is unavoidable,” Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly told
reporters in Nicosia today. If the euro-area cash comes with too
many strings attached, Cyprus will have other options, he said.
“Your negotiating position in talks with the European Union is
much better when you have a bilateral loan already approved.”  Cyprus, which joined the EU in 2004, would be the fifth
euro nation to seek a bailout, buffeted by the single-currency
bloc’s debt crisis, now in its third year. More than 386 billion
euros in loans have been pledged to  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal . On June 9,  Spain  requested as much as 100 billion
euros to support its banks. Cyprus has been shut out of markets
for more than a year.  The government needs as much as 6 billion euros over two
years for the banks, which have been hit by losses in Greece,
Michael Sarris, chairman of Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the
island’s second-largest, said on June 15. The government will
probably need funds to buy shares in a 1.8 billion-euro rights
offer by Cyprus Popular, he said. Last year, the bank posted
more than 3.6 billion euros in losses, mainly on Greek
government debt writedowns.  Strict Conditions  Before seeking assistance from the euro area, which would
come with strict conditions, Cyprus is approaching countries
including Russia for loans, government spokesman  Stefanos Stefanou  said, declining to elaborate.  The Cypriot newspaper Alithia reported on June 12 that
Cyprus was asking Russia for 5 billion euros. The Politis daily
said three days later that Cypriot President Demetris Christofias was leading the loan talks.  The Russian Finance Ministry’s press office didn’t
immediately reply to e-mailed questions about the reports.  Pavel Medvedev, an adviser to Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, said he “wouldn’t be surprised” if Russia extended a
second loan to Cyprus in as many years. Last December, Russia
lent 2.5 billion euros to the island nation.  President  Vladimir Putin  “recently spoke about the euro
countries in very kind terms,” Medvedev said. “If a loan is
given, it won’t be the kind of assistance that will be an
economic turning-point, but psychologically it will be extremely
important.”  Macroeconomic Imbalances  Unlike a loan from Russia, European aid would come with
conditions, probably including implementation of the European
Commission’s recent  recommendations  intended to rectify
macroeconomic imbalances and make the Cypriot economy more
competitive, Shiarly said.  EU pressure has revealed fractures in the Cypriot
government.  On May 31, the  Finance Ministry  said the government
“remains committed to carrying out the necessary structural
reforms and achieving the fiscal targets set” by the EU.  A day later, Christofias, whose term ends next February,
announced that “the president is the one who dictates policy,”
not individual ministries. “Ι will not allow workers to
shoulder any additional burden,” he said. “Recommendations are
recommendations, not directives.”  For economist Bernard Musyck, a loan agreement with Russia
could reduce Cyprus’s appetite for reforms and may not avert a
European bailout.  “It looks like the government is shifting the
responsibility of honoring the loan to the next administration
and confronting it with a fait accompli,” said Musyck, a former
analyst for Moody’s Investors Service who now teaches economics
at Frederik University in Nicosia.  “The next government may need a bailout to pay back the
loans,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  