-- Danone Cuts Profitability Goal on Southern Europe, Costs
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-06-19T09:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/danone-cuts-profitability-goal-on-southern-europe-costs-1-.html
Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt
maker, cut its profitability forecast as Spanish consumers
switch to less expensive products and raw-material costs rise.
The shares fell the most in three years.  The maker of Actimel yogurt expects its operating margin to
drop by 0.5 percentage point in 2012 on a like-for-like basis,
it said in a statement. Paris-based Danone previously expected a
“stable” margin. The shares fell as much as 7.5 percent, the
steepest intraday decline since May 2009.  Danone is losing market share in dairy in  Spain , where
about one in four people are unemployed, and will take measures
such as cutting costs and introducing new products to react.
That will reduce profitability in southern  Europe , Chief
Financial Officer Pierre-Andre Terisse said today.  “The competitive environment in Spain is a lot tougher, so
they’re having to invest more in promotion and pricing,” said
Martin Dolan, head of equity  research  at Espirito Santo in
 London . “This is very Danone-specific rather than sector wide
because of milk raw-material costs, and Danone’s exposure to
Spain is far greater at about 8 percent than for other big food
companies.”  Danone  shares  were trading 7.2 percent lower at 48.13 euros
as of 10:53 a.m. in Paris. Danone will report total sales growth
of about five percent in the second quarter as business in
 France , the company’s biggest market, is “holding up pretty
well,” Terisse said.  Milk Prices  Danone expects “mid-to-high single-digit” increase in
raw-material costs this year as whey and milk protein prices are
gaining 20 percent. Blaming input cost inflation for lower
profitability is “very surprising,” according to  Andrew Wood ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, who said he expected milk
costs would have decelerated and lower crude  oil prices  should
make plastic cheaper.  “Management credibility is likely to take as much, if not
more, a hit than its earnings per share following today’s
warning,” Wood wrote in a note to investors. He said he’ll
probably need to cut his 2012 EPS  estimate  about 5 percent.
Danone said today its earnings per share would be about 3.10
euros, at current rates of exchange.  “Europe is difficult for everybody,” and commodity price
volatility won’t end, Unilever Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc
Huet said today at a conference in Paris. Danone’s comments will
weigh on  Unilever (UNA) , the maker of Knorr soups, as its margin
guidance is also “challenging,” Pierre Tegner, an analyst at
Natixis, wrote. Unilever dropped as much as 2.8 percent in
Amsterdam trading.  The French yogurt maker in April said it expected  consumer
spending  to remain “under pressure” this year in western
Europe. European companies are wrestling with the fallout from a
drop in consumer spending as the sovereign debt crisis rocks the
region’s economies.  Carrefour SA (CA) , the biggest European retailer,
last week said it would withdraw from  Greece  and carmaker Fiat
SpA said it would cut investment in the region by 500 million
euros ($630 million).  Danone remains “very confident” that it can maintain its
revenue target of growth of 5 percent to 7 percent for the rest
of the year. The company’s growth in other markets, particularly
developing ones, is in line with or above its targets, Terisse
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  