-- Denmark Reveals Mark-to-Market Trap Amid No-Return Risks
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-06-20T05:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/denmark-reveals-mark-to-market-trap-amid-no-return-risks.html
As the European Union tells its life
insurers to adopt mark-to-market rules starting in 2014, it
should look north to see how the model can backfire.  A decade after  Denmark ’s pension funds and life insurers
became Europe’s first to use daily market values for matching
assets and liabilities, the country is diluting the model. The
government now says mark-to-market needs adjustments to work in
times of volatility.  “Instead of no-risk returns, you’ll get no-returns risk,”
Peter Lindegaard, who oversees about $50 billion as chief
investment officer at Danica Pension, a unit of Denmark’s
biggest lender  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said in an interview.  “You end
up on the wrong side of the tracks all the time. In trying to
protect the clients from  falling interest rates , we end up
pushing  interest rates  down further.”  Regulators broke that cycle this month after Denmark’s
haven status from  Europe ’s debt crisis sent its yields to record
lows, inflating liability burdens. As the Nordic country,
together with neighboring Sweden, softens its requirement that
pension assets be based on daily market moves, European
regulators are busy preparing the details of mark-to-market
rules for the 27-member bloc. They should think again, according
to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  ‘The Culprits’  Pension funds and life insurers are “supposed to be long-
term investors and natural stabilizers of the financial
system,”  Juan Yermo , head of the Paris-based OECD’s private
pensions unit, said in an interview. By enforcing strict mark-
to-market, “you can put them in a situation where they have to
behave like a short-term investor and a contributor to the
instability of the market,” he said.  The Danish government’s intervention, which raised the
discount rate used to calculate pension liabilities, sent 30-
year bond yields soaring as much as 17 basis points the day
after it was announced on June 13. Ten-year yields also gained,
and the rate on the 3 percent 2021 bond has climbed 13 basis
points this week to 1.36 percent.  Not everyone agrees the model is to blame. Pension funds
and life insurers that offer guaranteed products are the real
culprits, according to Anders Grosen, a finance professor at
Aarhus University and a former member of the Danish Pension
Market Council, who said he warned the industry 15 years ago to
stop offering minimum returns.  Guaranteed payouts made up 63 percent of Denmark’s $360
billion in commercial pension assets at the end of 2010,
according to a March central bank report. Funds and insurers
provide guaranteed returns as high as 4.5 percent.  ‘Just Cheating’  The EU’s regulatory overhaul for life insurers -- the so-
called Solvency II package -- is due to be adopted in January
2014. The commission is basing new pension regulation on
Solvency II.  According to Grosen, mark-to-market has underscored the
risks that guaranteed products have created and that would
otherwise have remained hidden.  “They should have skipped the interest guarantees years
ago,” he said. Raising the discount rate that insurers use is
the wrong approach, Grosen said. “They are just cheating.”  Denmark’s pension industry association has defended the
government’s intervention, the third since 2008.  Mark-to-market has helped pension providers to “get a
better understanding of the risks in the system,” said Peter
Damgaard Jensen, chairman of the Danish Insurance Association,
whose 126 members include the country’s largest life insurance
and pension funds. “Pension funds are more than 105 percent
funded, and you don’t find the same situation in a lot of
European countries.”  Pro-Cyclical  Even so, Damgaard Jensen cautions that mark-to-market “can
become pro-cyclical if you’re not cautious,” he said.  Denmark, which regulates pension funds and insurance
companies identically, told the industry to mark its assets and
liabilities to market prices after the attacks of Sept. 11,
2001, disrupted global markets. The  ensuing turbulence  nearly
wiped out PFA A/S, now Denmark’s second-biggest pension fund,
after the traded value of its assets proved too small to cover
its debt obligations.  Denmark in 2002 gave the pension industry one year to mark
its assets and liabilities to market, and a year later made the
model mandatory, becoming the first EU country to do so. The
U.K., Sweden and the Netherlands followed with similar
provisions in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, according to
the OECD.  ‘Feedback Effects’  The EU has signaled it will take into account the long-term
nature of life insurers’ investment horizons. The bloc’s
financial services chief  Michel Barnier  said in a  June 1 speech 
that financial institutions with more long-term investments may
face laxer capital requirements.  “What regulators are starting to realize -- and it stems
from the crisis -- is that sometimes market values aren’t very
reliable,” Yermo said. “There are a lot of hiccups and all
kinds of feedback effects, so that at times of financial stress,
market value could be way off fundamental values.”  Daily matching of assets to market rates can reinforce
negative market trends and hamper the pension industry’s ability
to act as an anchor in times of turbulence, Yermo said.  Finland and the Netherlands are already exploring ways to
ease liability burdens bloated by near record-low bond yields,
while  Sweden ’s financial regulator on June 7 proposed a
temporary floor on its rate, effective for 12 months.  “Rules and guidelines shouldn’t press companies to make
short-term investment decisions due to unusual conditions in the
 capital markets ,” Danish Business and Growth Minister Ole Sohn
said in a June 12 statement.  Lehman Brothers  Before the government’s intervention, Denmark’s discount
rate was calculated based on the euro-swap curve, which has
dropped across all maturities by as much as 4.6 percentage
points since the 2008 collapse of  Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc.
triggered the global financial crisis.  As of June 13, pension funds and life insurers have been
able to discount liabilities of more than 20 years using a
curve that is extrapolated based on a forward rate of 4.2
percent. The rate reflects long-term inflation of 2 percent
and growth of 2.2 percent.  Danish pension funds pay out a higher percentage of
retirees’ working salaries than life insurers elsewhere. Danes
on average can expect 117 percent of net pre-retirement income,
compared with 52 percent in the U.K., according to a May asset
allocation study by Mercer LLC, a consultancy.  Lifecycle  The government is urging the industry to shift customers
into so-called lifecycle products, which would eschew most
 capital requirements  even under EU rules, allowing higher risk-
return allocations.  Danica on May 10 reported a first-quarter return of 1.5
percent on its guaranteed pensions, versus 6.4 percent on
market-based products. Pension savers usually don’t draw their
funds for decades, leaving them less sensitive to day-to-day
market fluctuations, according to Yermo at the OECD.  “If you have a long-term commitment to meet and little
probability the policy holder will withdraw funds, why base
investment strategy and key investment decisions on prices
today?” he said. “That is the crux of the question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  