-- Developing Economies Warn of Damage From Basel, Volcker Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-06-19T22:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/developing-economies-warn-of-damage-from-basel-volcker-rules.html
Global regulators are being urged by
some  developing countries  to amend plans that would force  banks 
to boost their capital and liquid assets, expressing concerns
the measures may harm their economies.  A survey of developing and emerging economies conducted by
the  Financial Stability Board  revealed concerns that the
measures, drawn up in the wake of the 2008 collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., “could have adverse consequences and
may ultimately impact the development of domestic financial
markets in those countries.”  The nations are also concerned that U.S. proposals to ban
commercial banks from proprietary trading, known as the Volcker
Rule, may damage their “government, corporate securities and
derivatives markets,” the FSB said in the report, submitted
today to a meeting of the Group of 20 nations in Los Cabos,
 Mexico  and published on the FSB’s website. It didn’t name the
countries included in the survey.  Regulators and lenders have clashed over how to implement
the international bank-capital and liquidity standards, which
are set to become fully effective in 2019. The measures, known
as Basel III, would require banks to more than triple the core
capital they hold to protect themselves from insolvency. Lenders
deemed to be systemically important would be required to hold
even more reserves.  Banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  have called for changes to some elements of the
Basel plans, warning they may limit growth.  Trade Finance  Specific concerns named in the report include that the new
rules might make it more expensive for lenders to provide so-
called trade finance services, the FSB said. These services,
essential to international trade, include guarantees from an
importer’s bank that a buyer will pay the seller on time, as
well as short-term loans.  There is also a more general concern lenders will scale
back activities outside their core markets, the board said.  The FSB brings together finance ministry officials, central
bankers and regulators from G-20 nations to coordinate
rulemaking.  While nations have agreed to put the Basel measures onto
their books by Jan. 1, 2013, regulators have already placed some
parts of the accord under review. This includes a minimum level
of liquid assets a bank must hold, which global regulators plan
to update by the end of this year.  Separately, the FSB also said some regulators are lagging
behind in implementing measures for handling the failure of
cross-border banks. The measures, which include requiring
systemically important lenders to draw up so-called living wills
showing how they could be wound down in a crisis, are supposed
to be in place by the end of this year.  “Serious problems exist” for some FSB members in meeting
the rules on time, the board said in a report. “Remedial action
is warranted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 