-- Dewey, Dorsey & Whitney, Dechert, Sidley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-19T11:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/dewey-dorsey-whitney-dechert-sidley-business-of-law-1-.html
Bankrupt Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP asked a
judge to approve payments at customary rates of as much as $935
an hour for partners of its lead law firm,  Togut Segal & Segal
LLP .  Dewey, which failed on May 28, owing more than $225 million
to secured lenders, is seeking to hire at least nine firms to
assist with the liquidation, according to federal court filings
in  Manhattan .  Billing rates for top officers at Zolfo Cooper Management
LLC, its restructuring firm, are as much as $825 an hour. The
press advisory firm  Sitrick & Co.  charges as much as $895 hourly
for its top people, according to June 15 filings.  Fees charged by firms that failed because they can’t pay
their lenders are attracting attention from the U.S. Justice
Department. Clifford J. White, director of the department’s  U.S.
Trustee , which oversees bankruptcies, has said the “eye-
catching” fees are “difficult to explain in the current
economic environment,” according to an  article  by White on the
DOJ’s website.  Thomas Mulligan, an executive at Sitrick, declined to
comment on the fees that will be billed to Dewey.  Dewey guaranteed about 100 partners about $100 million,
according to people familiar with the firm’s finances.  Steven Davis , the former chairman, was ousted on April 29 after
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. started a probe into
possible wrongdoing at Dewey, according to an internal Dewey
memo to partners that day. He has denied wrongdoing.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Moves  Three Trial Partners Join Dorsey in Salt Lake City  Dorsey & Whitney LLP announced that it has added a trio of
trial attorney as partners in the firm’s  Salt Lake City  office.
Bryon Benevento, Dan Larsen and Kimberly Neville were previously
partners with Snell & Wilmer LLP.  Benevento’s practice focuses on commercial litigation,
intellectual property litigation and products liability defense.
Larsen’s practice focuses on product liability defense, medical
malpractice, commercial litigation and government law. Neville’s
practice focuses on product liability, health care and
commercial litigation.  Dorsey & Whitney has 19 locations in the U.S.,  Canada ,
Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.  Dechert Adds London Finance Partner From White & Case  Jeremy Trinder, formerly at White & Case LLP, joined
Dechert LLP as a partner in the finance and real estate practice
and will be resident in the firm’s London office.  “We are expanding our global finance footprint and he will
make a huge contribution,” Richard D. Jones, co-chairman of
Dechert’s finance and real estate group, said of Trinder in a
statement.  Trinder has worked on commercial real estate business
including loan origination, securitization, and workout and
restructuring work. He also has experience in the distressed
debt arena and represents a major international rating company.  Dechert’s 26 offices are located in the U.S. and 11
countries in  Europe , Asia and the Middle East.  Federal Prosecutor Joshua Hill Joins Sidley in San Francisco  Sidley Austin LLP hired Joshua Hill as a litigation partner
in the  San Francisco  office. He joins the white-collar,
securities litigation and complex commercial litigation practice
groups.  For the past four years, Hill was an assistant U.S.
Attorney with the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Northern
District of  California . As a federal prosecutor, Hill
investigated and prosecuted a range of offenses, including wire
and mail frauds, bank fraud, criminal tax, child exploitation,
human trafficking, firearms and narcotics, and immigration
crimes, the firm said.  Hill “is a great addition to our litigation practice and
continues our ongoing expansion in Northern California,” Anne E. Rea, the member of Sidley’s Management Committee responsible
for its West Coast offices, said in a statement.  The white-collar practice group in Sidley’s San Francisco
office includes David Anderson, the former first assistant U.S.
Attorney in the Northern District of California, who joined the
firm in 2010.  Sidley Austin LLP has approximately 1,700 lawyers in 18
offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Litigation  Drugmakers Don’t Owe Sales Force Overtime, High Court Says  Drugmakers don’t have to pay overtime to their sales
representatives, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in a decision that
saves the industry billions of dollars and marks a defeat for
the Obama administration.  The justices, voting 5-4 in a case involving a
GlaxoSmithKline Plc unit, said pharmaceutical salespeople are
exempt from a federal wage-and-hour law.  Paul Clement , of  Bancroft PLLC , argued the case for Glaxo.
Tom Goldstein, of  Goldstein & Russell PC,  argued the case for
the workers. Malcolm Stewart, a Justice Department lawyer, also
made oral arguments  More than a dozen wage-and-hour cases had been filed
against drugmakers -- including  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  and units of Novartis AG and  Merck & Co. (MRK)  -- by
workers charged with persuading doctors to prescribe the
company’s products. Business groups said billions of dollars
were at stake.  “This closely watched case shuts the door for high-stakes
wage-and-hour cases in the pharmaceutical field,” said Diane Sullivan, a trial lawyer at Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP and head
of the firm’s  New Jersey  office.  The Obama administration threw its support behind the sales
representatives in a 2009 court filing. The administration said
the exemption in the Fair Labor Standards Act for “outside
salesmen” doesn’t apply to drug-industry representatives.  The court yesterday said that position wasn’t entitled to
any special deference because the Labor Department laid out its
views in court papers rather than through a formal rulemaking
proceeding.  The case split the court along ideological lines. Justice
 Samuel Alito  wrote the majority opinion, joined by Chief Justice
John Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony Kennedy and
 Clarence Thomas .  The justices focused their ruling on the particular
characteristics of the pharmaceutical industry, limiting the
impact of the decision on other businesses.  The case is Christopher v. SmithKline Beecham, 11-204,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Roger Clemens Acquitted of Federal Charges Over Steroid Use  Former  New York  Yankee  Roger Clemens , a pitcher who won
more than 350 games and struck out more than 4,600 batters in a
24-year Major League Baseball career, was found not guilty of
lying to Congress about his use of performance-enhancing drugs.  Clemens thanked his legal team, whom he said “from day one
listened to what I had to say.”  One of his lawyers,  Rusty Hardin , said after court
yesterday that “it’s a day of celebration. Justice won out.”  “Hopefully when a man says ‘I didn’t do it,’ let’s at
least give him the benefit of the doubt,” Hardin said. “I’ve
got nothing bad to say about anybody today.”  U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr. thanked the jury for its
service.  “We respect the judicial process and the jury’s verdict,
Machen said in a statement. ‘‘The U.S. Attorney’s Office also
wishes to thank the investigators and prosecutors, who pursued
this case with tremendous dedication and professionalism after
its referral to us from Congress.”  Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner as the best
pitcher in his league, was charged with one count of obstructing
a congressional investigation into the use of performance-
enhancing drugs by professional athletes.  He was also charged with three counts of making false
statements and of perjury stemming from his testimony to a House
panel. If convicted, he faced as long as 21 months in prison.  Lawyers for Roger Clemens rested their defense June 11
after calling 23 witnesses during the trial in Washington,
ending with Jerry Laveroni, former head of player security for
the Yankees. Laveroni said Clemens’s chief accuser,  Brian McNamee , has “zero” credibility.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 1:10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  