-- Dimon Says Global Reach by Dodd-Frank May Aid Competitors
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2012-06-19T22:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/dimon-says-curbs-needed-to-international-dodd-frank-reach.html
Congress and U.S. regulators should
limit the international reach of Dodd-Frank Act swaps
regulations,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said as he testified about at least $2 billion in losses
on trades conducted by his bank in London.  “If JPMorgan overseas operates under different rules than
our foreign competitors, we can no longer provide the best
products and services to our U.S. clients or our foreign
clients,” Dimon said yesterday at a House Financial Services
Committee hearing on the losses. “The rules at the transaction
level about margin reporting, all those requirements may enable
Deutsche Bank to make the better deal.”  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the main
derivatives regulator, is poised to propose guidance tomorrow
that would extend swaps rules to foreign branches and
subsidiaries of JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and other U.S. banks. The international reach of Dodd-Frank
rules is among the most controversial elements of the
derivatives-regulation overhaul and has led to two years of
debate between regulators and financial-industry lobby groups.  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, has testified to Congress and
delivered speeches calling for oversight of U.S. banks’ overseas
operations.  “I think if we were to leave the London branches of the
U.S. banks or even the guaranteed affiliates out it would be, so
to speak, another loophole and a retreat from reform where risk
would come crashing back to our taxpayers and our  Federal
Reserve ,” Gensler said at the hearing before Dimon testified.  ‘Not Surprising’  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who has sought to
rein in risky bank derivatives trading, said Dodd-Frank was
drafted to protect U.S. taxpayers from having to bail out banks
that make bad bets, including at their overseas offices.  “It’s not surprising that a bank executive would push for
a loophole to exempt his bank’s non-U.S. offices from Dodd-
Frank, but it would be a colossal failure by our regulators
to ignore the law and grant his wish,” he said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Dodd-Frank was enacted to increase transparency in the
global swaps market after largely unregulated trades helped fuel
the 2008 credit crisis and the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Bipartisan U.S. House legislation limiting the
international reach of swaps rules was delayed after JPMorgan’s
chief investment office losses were announced on May 10.  The trades involved in the investment office losses were
conducted in  London , even though most of the CIO is based in  New
York . “I don’t think this activity was in London because
regulatory activity is less in London,” Dimon said at the
hearing.  Global regulators set a goal of the end of 2012 to have
swaps guaranteed by central clearinghouses and traded on more
transparent platforms. Delays and inconsistencies between
national regulations may compromise the deadline set by the
Group of 20 nations, the Financial Stability Board said in a
report on June 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Fidel in Washington at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  