-- Dimon Says ‘Firewalls’ May Halt Spread of Europe Crisis
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   L a u r a   J .   K e l l e r
-- 2012-06-19T16:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/dimon-endorses-firewalls-to-halt-spread-of-europe-crisis.html
Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer
of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said the European debt crisis is a
larger threat to his bank than the loss of more than $2 billion
from bets on  credit derivatives .  “I am far more worried about Europe than I am about this
trading position,” Dimon, 56, said today at a hearing of the
House Financial Services Committee in Washington. “I hope the
legislators over there can overcome their complications, and
keep the euro zone alive.”  The euro declined yesterday as Spanish 10-year bond yields
leapt above the 7 percent level that forced  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal  to call for outside aid. Europeans leaders from the
Group of 20 will commit to protecting the currency union and
improving financial stability, according to an excerpt of a
draft of a statement the leaders will issue at the end of a G-20
summit.  “They’re trying to put firewalls in place” to contain the
crisis, Dimon said. “That might work. It’s important they do
that and hold back a crisis and then they have to go about
having a real fiscal treaty among the 17 nations of the euro.”  Dimon has sought to assure lawmakers that New York-based
JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank, can withstand  losses  from the
trading blunder while fending off calls for increased
regulation. Today’s hearing was called in response to Dimon’s
May 10 announcement of the loss, after he’d said on April 13
that news reports on the trades were a “tempest in a teapot.”  “I’m sorry I take up so many people’s time on this loss,
because it is rather not significant in the global scheme of
things,” Dimon said.  The CEO also addressed Italy’s finances.  Italian ‘Wherewithal’  Italians have “the wherewithal to meet their debt, but
they’re having a crisis of confidence, which is damaging them,”
Dimon said. “The banks there own a lot of the sovereign debt.
Banking systems don’t function very well if the sovereign system
is not functioning.”  Italy’s 10-year government bond yield fell 17 basis points
to 5.92 percent today.  Europe is making an effort to “break the feedback loop”
between banks and government debt, the U.S. Treasury
Department’s top international negotiator,  Lael Brainard , has
told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura J. Keller in New York at 
 lkeller12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  