-- Dow Jones President Todd Larsen Steps Down From Job
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-19T18:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/dow-jones-president-todd-larsen-steps-down-from-job.html
Dow Jones & Co. President Todd Larsen stepped down from the position today, part of a round of
organizational changes under the  News Corp. (NWSA)  division’s new chief
executive officer, Lex Fenwick.  Larsen, who had been with Dow Jones for a total of 13
years, held the president job since January 2010, the division
said today in a statement. Larsen was passed over for the top
job at Dow Jones earlier this year, when Fenwick, a Bloomberg LP
executive, was hired to run the New York-based unit.  “I have enjoyed immensely my 13 years spent in challenging
and exciting roles at Dow Jones,” Larsen said in the statement.  Fenwick replaced  Les Hinton , who departed as Dow Jones
chief executive officer in July amid fallout from a phone-
hacking scandal at the company’s U.K. newspaper unit. Hinton had
been in charge of News Corp.’s British newspapers during the
time when the hacking took place.  The company announced separately that Alisa Bowen, general
manager of the company’s Wall Street Journal Digital Network,
will become head of product for Dow Jones. The division also is
creating a new department called Data Strategy that will
integrate its research teams. The operation will be run by Joe Lanza, who currently serves as president of the company’s
Financial Markets.  Larsen worked to expand the company’s Internet operations,
helping to add more than 1.3 million paid digital subscribers,
according to today’s statement. He previously served as chief
operating officer of the consumer media group and president of
the former Consumer Electronic Publishing division.  Fenwick joined Dow Jones in February from Bloomberg, where
he ran Bloomberg Ventures. Bloomberg competes with News Corp. in
providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  