-- Durant Seen Scoring $10 Million With Title by Not Being LeBron
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/durant-seen-scoring-10-million-with-title-by-not-being-lebron.html
No one has scored more points than
Kevin Durant over the past three National Basketball Association
seasons. The Oklahoma City Thunder forward may be about to roll
up endorsement riches as well.  The 23-year-old Durant gives companies a humble and
refreshing alternative to  LeBron James , who announced his move
to Miami from  Cleveland  in 2010 by saying “I’m going to take my
talents to  South Beach ,” sports marketers say. The day before
James’s one-hour television special to disclose his choice,
Durant announced his $85 million extension with the Thunder with
little fanfare.  “Extension for 5 more years with the Thunder,” he posted
on Twitter.  Durant may become an international endorsement icon with a
Thunder victory over the Heat in the NBA Finals, according to
marketing analysts. Game 4 of the championship series is tonight
in Miami with the Heat leading the best-of-seven series two
games to one.  “It’s being a real family guy, it’s being faithful to a
small-town team, re-signing a contract when he could have jumped
somewhere else, versus somebody like LeBron, with his ’Decision’
and what that cost him in the public eye,” Bob Dorfman,
executive creative director at San Francisco-based  Baker Street
Advertising , said in a telephone interview.  An NBA title for Durant may be worth $10 million in
advertising money, according to Dorfman, who said the three-time
All-Star’s wardrobe of shirts buttoned up to the neck, thick
black-frame glasses and a backpack makes him look more like a
college student than a millionaire.  Sponsor Contracts  Durant has had an endorsement deal with Sprint since the
start of the season. He’s also done advertisements for Nike Inc.
and Pepsi Co.’s Gatorade.  “I don’t know that there is a ceiling for  Kevin Durant ,”
Steve Gaffney, Sprint’s vice president of sports sponsorships,
said in a telephone interview. “His on-court skills are
incredible and his off-court demeanor, behavior, approach,
humility, put him in a very unique niche that I think is going
to provide him a very long and illustrious career.”  When James joined All-Stars Dwyane Wade and  Chris Bosh  in
Miami, he said he expected “not two, not three, not four, not
five, not six, not seven” championships. He joked that Pat Riley, the team president who is now 67, could play alongside
them.  Durant has promised nothing. His favorite quote, according
to Alan Stein, a friend and former strength coach, is “Hard
work beats talent when talent fails to work hard.”  Rookie Enthusiasm  “The people at the Thunder repeatedly tell me that to this
day, Kevin practices like a rookie on a 10-day contract,” Stein,
founder of  Stronger Team , a basketball-specific training company,
said in a telephone interview. “It all stems back to that
quote.”  Durant ranked No. 31 on  Sports Illustrated ’s list of
 highest-earning  American athletes last year, with $6 million in
salary and $14 million in endorsements. James at No. 3 was the
highest non-golfer on the list with $30 million in endorsements.
 Tiger Woods  led the endorsements list at $60 million.  Advertisers align themselves with NBA players because of
their reach in international markets. About half of the league’s
Facebook, Twitter and YouTube followers are outside the U.S.,
and this year’s Finals are available for viewing in 47 languages
in 215 countries and territories.  The NBA is also the most popular sports league in  China ,
the world’s most populous country, with more than 52 million
followers on social media websites Sina Weibo and Tencent QQ,
according to an e-mailed release from the NBA.  China Appeal  Unlike James and 14-time All-Star  Kobe Bryant , who were
part of the 2008 U.S. Olympic team that won a gold medal in
Beijing, Durant isn’t yet a popular figure in China, according
to Terry Rhoads, who left as Nike’s China sports marketing
director in 2002 to form Shanghai-based  Zou Marketing Inc.   Durant will have to do more than win a championship to
change that, Rhoads said.  “KD needs to himself invest more time in China doing youth
clinics, city tours, and media activities,” Rhoads wrote in an
e-mail. “Chinese youth love when a world champion spends time
visiting China, learning about the country, picking up a few
Mandarin Chinese phrases.”  Fanatics Inc. , a Jacksonville, Florida-based retailer of
licensed sports merchandise, has sold 15 percent more Thunder
products than Heat products during the playoffs, according to
President Jamie Davis. Durant merchandise outsold James
merchandise by 25 percent, even though  Oklahoma City  is the
U.S.’s No. 44 television market, compared with Miami at No. 16.  High Scorer  Durant, the NBA’s Rookie of Year in 2008, has won three
scoring titles and twice finished runner-up in Most Valuable
Player voting. He’s scored a league-high 6,483 points, averaging
28.7 per game since the 2009-10 season began.  “I said to people when he was coming out of college that
by the time he was 25 he’d be the best player in the world,”
Rick Barnes, Durant’s coach during his one season at the
 University of Texas , said last week on a conference call.
“That’s my fault because I underestimated him.”  Gaffney, of Sprint, said the 6-foot-9, 235-pound forward is
often more prepared for an endorsement shoot than actors. He may
have learned that from the filming of “Thunderstruck,” a
Warner Bros. movie starring Durant that is set for release this
year.  Trading Talent  Dorfman said the movie, in which an eighth-grade boy swaps
his talent with Durant, will build the NBA player’s market.  “It gets him established with the younger kids who are
growing into the buying demographic, and it pulls in parents of
those kids who may not already follow him,” Dorfman said.  Durant is not only increasing his own brand, but that of
the NBA, according to TV analyst and former player Greg Anthony.  “He’s what’s great about our game right now,” Anthony
said in a conference call last week. “Any time your superstar
players are as likeable off the court as they are effective on
it, that bodes well for the game.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  