-- The One Man Who Can Save Europe
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-06-19T22:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/the-one-man-who-can-save-europe.html
The European Union’s audacious
policy of not having a policy to deal with its economic crisis
has almost run its course.  Last week, investors took less than a day to decide that
the proposed assistance package for Spanish banks wouldn’t do.
This week, the good news from  Greece  -- leftists who want to
confront rather than cooperate with Brussels were defeated in
the general election -- was discounted even faster.  Attention turned back to Spain and Italy. Spanish bond
yields surged above 7 percent, the highest since the crisis
began, signaling fear of default. If Spain, an economy five
times bigger than Greece, goes under, saving the euro will be
the smaller of Europe’s problems. The EU itself will be in
danger.  With the EU’s politicians unable or unwilling to act,
everything depends on the  European Central Bank  and its chief,
 Mario Draghi .  That may sound familiar. Once the fiscal stimulus of 2009
had passed, the  U.S. Congress  and administration fought to a
draw, leaving the economy’s prospects in the hands of the
 Federal Reserve . With the recovery again losing momentum and
U.S. politics stalemated, many investors expect that the Fed
will soon announce a third round of quantitative easing, where
the central bank buys bonds to drive down long-term  interest
rates . It is unorthodox, controversial and necessary. The
government can’t act, so the Fed has to.  Constitutional Design  Europe’s fiscal paralysis has a different cause: an
argument about the EU’s constitutional design. The consequence
is much the same. The ECB has to step up. It wasn’t easy for the
Fed to enlarge its role in this way, and it will be even harder
for the ECB, which operates under tighter legal restraints.  There’s no alternative. We will know one way or the other
within days. EU leaders have a summit meeting scheduled at the
end of the month. Supposing they can ride out the next week or
so, could that produce a breakthrough? Don’t bet on it.  The EU’s political leadership understands that a Spanish
default would be a cataclysm -- including for  Germany , the
principal architect of the no-policy policy and a country
already exposed to enormous losses if the euro system unravels.
Few deny that forceful action could avert the danger. They have
known this for months, and still just stand there.  Ahead of the summit, it is unclear whether they are even
discussing the needed remedies -- first, a banking union that
creates a single mechanism for financial regulation,  deposit
insurance  and bank reorganization; and second, some measure of
fiscal burden-sharing, perhaps through the issue of jointly
guaranteed euro bonds.  There is high-level support for the idea of a banking union
someday, eventually, but no real sense of urgency. It requires
legislation, goes the prevailing view. You can’t rush these
things.  As for debt mutualization, Germany and like-minded northern
European countries remain opposed in principle. No fiscal union
without political union, says Germany -- an unpromising
approach, considering that political union is the last thing
 Europe ’s voters want to see emerge from this mess.  Recently Germany’s leaders have seemed more receptive to an
idea put forward last year by a council of German economic
experts for a so-called redemption pact. This would provide a
measure of fiscal risk-sharing tied to strict rules and
penalties for noncompliance. Even if this were the right design
(which it isn’t, as I explained last week), it might require
months of talks and legislative action.  ECB Tools  The most the summit seems likely to do is start official
consideration of the idea. That is no good, because the market’s
patience is used up. If Europe’s governments refuse to act
decisively and soon, the ECB will have to. Like the Fed, the ECB
has the tools.  This is a question of propriety and legality, not
economics. With big parts of Europe falling back into recession,
unemployment high, wages suppressed and inflationary pressures
minimal, the argument for stronger monetary easing is open and
shut. The ECB should engage in large-scale quantitative easing.
At the same time it can guarantee the solvency of  Spain  and
Italy by acting as lender of last resort to their governments.  The ECB can deliver monetary stimulus and restore
confidence in the distressed governments’ solvency at a stroke,
without further debate or delay, so long as it is forceful
enough.  What’s stopping it? When Europe’s monetary union was being
designed, this kind of intervention was ruled out because the
legitimate need for it was never envisaged. Central-bank
financing of governments was seen as a formula for fiscal excess
and uncontrolled inflation. History shows the danger is real.  Restricting the ECB’s discretion so tightly, though, was a
huge error, because the EU lacks any other collective macro-
policy machinery. The Fed was right to resort to unorthodox
stimulus when conditions demanded it. The ECB must do the same.  Can it act without breaking the law? The spirit of the law
rules it out. The letter is more accommodating. Bear in mind,
the ECB has already done it on a small scale. Under its
Securities Markets Program, the central bank bought Spanish and
Italian debt last year; previously it had bought Greek, Irish
and Portuguese government debt under the same plan. The ECB said
the purchases weren’t direct financing of governments. The idea
was to safeguard the money transmission mechanism, a proper ECB
function -- an interesting distinction that nobody else
understood.  Later the ECB rolled out its much larger liquidity relief
operation -- again, to many, a form of QE. Instead of buying
government debt, the ECB lent to banks at very low rates in the
hope that they would buy the sovereign bonds instead. The
maneuver worked for a while, and the legally questionable debt-
buying program fell into disuse.  The time for this stratagem has run out. Providing cheap
liquidity can’t deal with insolvency. The Securities Markets
Program must be revived -- urgently and at scale. It is fine if
Draghi says he is safeguarding the money transmission mechanism.
Let him deny the purpose is to assure the solvency of Spain and
 Italy . Investors won’t believe him, so it won’t matter. The main
thing is that he acts, because nobody else seems willing to, and
Europe is in grave danger.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Egypt ’s de facto  coup d’etat 
and on a capital gains-corporate income  tax deal ;  Margaret
Carlson  on  Washington ’s other  dysfunctional government ;  Noah
Feldman  on whether Egypt will be the  next Algeria ;  Peter Orszag 
on  mandatory voting  in the U.S.; Carl Pope on the rise of
 renewable energy  in  emerging markets .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 