-- Heating Oil Rises on Speculation Federal Reserve to Add Stimulus
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-06-19T17:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/heating-oil-rises-on-speculation-federal-reserve-to-add-stimulus.html
Heating oil rose on speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  will act to stimulate the economy and the
result will be stronger fuel demand.  Futures gained as Fed policy makers begin a two-day meeting
today. The central bank’s so-called Operation Twist plan, which
involves selling short-term debt and buying longer-term bonds,
is set to end this month. Heating oil is traded as a proxy for
diesel.  “The market seems to be pricing in at least an extension
of Operation Twist,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at
Price Futures Group in Chicago. “We expect some action from the
Fed. The question is the degree.”  Heating oil for July delivery rose 2.94 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $2.6471 a gallon at 1:50 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  “We put high odds on them acting at the meeting,” said
 Vincent Reinhart , chief U.S. economist in New York at Morgan
Stanley and a former head of the Fed board’s Division of
Monetary Affairs, which develops policy strategy.  Gasoline for July delivery gained 0.11 cent to $2.662 a
gallon on the exchange. Prices touched $2.6277, the lowest
intraday level since June 8.  Gasoline was outperformed by heating oil as  Brent crude 
weakened on the ICE Futures Exchange in London, reducing the
cost of European fuel imports.  Brent’s premium to West Texas Intermediate crude narrowed
61 cents to $11.84 a barrel.  “Brent has been consistently coming down,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy Management Institute
in  New York .  The Energy Department will probably report tomorrow that
 stockpiles  of the motor fuel rose 1 million barrels last week as
refiners raised output, based on the median of 11 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg. Refinery rates rose 0.3 percentage point
last week to the highest level in almost five years, according
to the survey.  “We are seeing gasoline supplies return to the market as
refinery operating rates are increasing around the country,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Houston-based Lipow Oil Associates
LLC.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.8
cent to $3.497 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA. It was the
lowest price since Feb. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  