-- Mubarak on Life Support Adding to Confusion in Egypt
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-06-20T12:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/egypt-s-mubarak-on-life-support-former-general-says.html
The  Muslim Brotherhood  said new
unrest may be sparked if its presidential candidate doesn’t
prevail in a runoff also claimed by his rival, adding further
confusion to Egypt’s transition to democracy.  Election officials were fielding challenges by the
Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi and Ahmed Shafik, who served briefly
as  Hosni Mubarak ’s last premier, as the ousted president was
said to be in a coma after being rushed from prison to a
military hospital.  The Brotherhood also lashed out at Egypt’s ruling generals
after they stripped the presidency of much of its authority and
boosted their powers, less than two weeks before they are due to
hand over power to the new head of state. The move also stoked
investor concern about a recovery in the $240 billion economy
and prospects for a $3.2 billion International Monetary Fund
loan.  “Every day, we are shocked by a new decision from the
military council that is tantamount to overturning all
legitimacies -- constitutional legitimacy, popular legitimacy,
everything,” Brotherhood spokesman Mahmoud Ghozlan said by
phone today. “The people will not accept” any declaration that
Shafik has won, he said.  Tens of thousands massed last night in a show of force
against the military council’s decree that gave it more sweeping
authority. The Islamist-led protest also rejected the court-
ordered dissolution of parliament and the military’s newly-
minted rights to arrest civilians.  Public Opposition  “We’ve seen yesterday how people opposed the
constitutional declaration and dissolution of parliament,”
Ghozlan said. “If you add to all of this, rigging of their will
in the presidential elections, I think there will be a stronger
position,” he said, adding that Mursi had a comfortable lead in
the race.  Confusion surrounding Mubarak’s health added a new element
to the political puzzle. The 84-year-old former leader was in a
coma at a military hospital after he was rushed from the prison
intensive care unit where he had been held since being sentenced
on June 2 to life in prison, Youssri Abdel Razek, a volunteer
Mubarak lawyer said by phone.  Egypt ’s state-run Middle East News Agency, citing medical
officials it didn’t name, reported earlier that Mubarak was
“clinically” dead. It said several efforts to revive him using
a defibrillator failed.  Worsening Health  Since his arrival at prison, the former president’s
condition had steadily deteriorated, and took another turn for
the worse late yesterday. Prison department spokesman Brigadier-
General Mohamed Elewa said Mubarak had to be placed on a
ventilator.  Mubarak’s chief lawyer, Farid ElDib, said his client was
alive, though he attributed his poor state to the “lack of
medical care or treatment” at the prison hospital, the state-
run Al-Ahram quoted him as saying today.  Earlier reports of Mubarak’s deteriorating health in prison
were met with skepticism by Islamists and by activists such as
the April 6 youth group. They said it was a pretext to move a
man they blamed for the country’s ills, including unemployment,
inflation and poor educational and health care systems, to more
comfortable surroundings.  The ruling military, which Mubarak had been a part of
before rising to the presidency with the assassination of his
predecessor, was described by the Islamists and activists as
trying to secure a grip on power.  Military Powers  Ghozlan said the military’s 11th-hour decree, issued
shortly after ballot counting began on June 17, was part of a
wider push to “militarize the state.” He said he expected
protests against the generals to continue to be peaceful.  Under the decree, the military assumed legislative powers
until the election of a new parliament. It also ensured its own
budget remained beyond public scrutiny and that it could
exercise a hand in writing the constitution, as well as vetoing
provisions in the document.  Criticism also came from abroad. Former U.S. President
 Jimmy Carter , whose Carter Center observed the vote, said he was
“deeply troubled by the undemocratic turn that Egypt’s
transition has taken.”  The military decree “violates their prior commitment to
the Egyptian people to make a full transfer of power to an
elected civilian government,” Carter said in a statement e-
mailed by the center.  Mursi and Shafik’s campaigns held televised news
conferences yesterday, with both claiming they had won about 52
percent of the vote in the runoff.  Vote Challenges  Election commission chief Farouk Sultan said both claims
were premature and that the commission had received numerous
challenges from the candidates’ campaigns. While the official
results are due to be released tomorrow, Sultan told MENA late
yesterday that it would be impossible to issue final results
until all the challenges had been vetted.  The potential for a delay could further complicate a race
featuring the two most divisive candidates to emerge from a
field of 13 candidates in the election’s first round last month.
The vote was intended to cap the transition process made
possible by Mubarak’s push from power.  The military sought to reassure Egyptians that it would
hand over power by the end of June.  “What the military got was legislative power and their
privileges and prerogatives guaranteed,” Hani Sabra, a Middle
East analyst with Eurasia Group, said by phone. “They got this
because they out-maneuvered the Brotherhood.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  