-- Wynn Resorts Founder’s Ex-Wife Seeks Order to Sell Shares
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-06-20T01:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/elaine-wynn-seeks-court-order-voiding-shares-sale-ban.html
The ex-wife of  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) 
founder and chairman Steve Wynn asked for a court order
invalidating a stockholders agreement that prevents her from
selling her 10 percent share of the casino operator.  Elaine Wynn, in a filing today in federal court in Las
Vegas, said the restrictions on her shares were similar to those
on shares held by Kazuo Okada, the board member whose 20 percent
stake in Wynn Resorts was forcibly redeemed after he was accused
by the company of making improper payments to Philippine
gambling regulators. Okada has denied the allegations.  The initial 2002 stockholders agreement, which stipulated
that Okada and Steve Wynn would vote their 25 percent stakes in
the company as a block, gave  Steve Wynn  control over who was
elected to the company’s board, according to Elaine Wynn’s
filing. The agreement was amended when Elaine Wynn became a
separate shareholder as a result of her divorce.  “The shareholder status of Mr. Okada’s company, Aruze, was
a fundamental premise of Ms. Wynn’s decision to enter into the
January 2010 stockholders agreement,” according to Elaine
Wynn’s filing. “Ms. Wynn would not have agreed to give her ex-
husband the potential ability to restrict the market for her
stock if not for her desire to support and not undermine the
existing alliance between Mr. Wynn and Mr. Okada.”  ‘VIP Gamblers’  Elaine Wynn, who is also a  board  member of Las Vegas-based
Wynn Resorts, is a counter-defendant in the case initially
brought by Wynn Resorts against Okada alleging the Japanese
billionaire is developing two casinos and three hotels in  Manila 
and seeking to lure “high-limit, VIP gamblers” from  China , in
direct competition with Wynn’s casino in Macau.  Elaine Wynn came to own 10 million shares, worth about $1
billion, after her 2009 divorce from Steve Wynn that entitled
her to half their community assets. Steve Wynn wanted to
restrict her ability to sell the shares because he didn’t want
to give Okada an opening to renegotiate the restrictions on his
shares too, according to the filing.  With the forced redemption of Okada’s shares in February,
there’s no longer a reason for her to be bound by the
restrictions, according to Elaine Wynn’s filing. Her ex-husband
still maintains that she can’t sell her shares without his
consent, Elaine Wynn said.  ‘Legally Baseless’  “Today’s cross claim filed by my ex-wife Elaine P. Wynn is
a legally baseless attempt to drag into federal court a domestic
relations matter that was previously settled in family court
here in  Las Vegas ,” Steve Wynn said in an e-mailed statement.
The 2010 stockholders agreement “was at the essence of a
property settlement between us that was extensively negotiated
while Elaine was represented by a top divorce lawyer.”  Okada filed counterclaims against Wynn Resorts and the
board in March, challenging the redemption of his shares at a
$800 million discount. In a filing June 14, he asked the court
to maintain his  voting rights  during the litigation.  Okada, the former vice chairman at Wynn Resorts who helped
bankroll the company 12 years ago, had filed a petition in state
court in  Clark County ,  Nevada , in January for access to Wynn
Resorts’ financial records. Okada opposed the company’s HK$1
billion ($129 million) pledge in July 2011 to the University of
 Macau  Development Foundation.  Steve Getzug, a spokesman for Aruze USA Inc., Okada’s
holding company, declined to comment.  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Okada, 12-00400, U.S. District
Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 