-- Telecom Italia Pares Gains as Report Denied: Milan Mover
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-06-19T09:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/telecom-italia-pares-gains-as-report-denied-milan-mover.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  pared gains in
Milan trading after state lender Cassa Depositi & Prestiti SpA
denied a report in  Il Sole 24 Ore  newspaper on the creation of a
fixed-line network venture with Italy’s biggest phone operator.  Telecom Italia was trading up 3.3 percent at 70 cents as of
11:02 a.m. after a jump of as much as 6.4 percent earlier in the
day. The stock has declined 16 percent this year, valuing
Telecom Italia at 12.8 billion euros ($16.1 billion).  A unit of Cassa Depositi & Prestiti may invest 3 billion
euros in the partnership, with Telecom Italia contributing its
fixed-line unit,  Il Sole 24 Ore  said. CDP “isn’t aware” of the
proposal, and Chairman Franco Bassanini hasn’t scheduled a
“secret meeting” that the newspaper reported was planned with
Telecom Italia Chief Operating Officer Marco Patuano, according
to an official for the lender who spoke by phone today. Rome-
based Telecom Italia called the report “groundless.”  Telecom Italia may transfer the fixed-line network into a
company called Opac, or fixed-line wholesale access operator,
valuing its grid at about 12 billion euros, Il Sole said. Cassa
Depositi and its Fondo Strategico Italiano SpA vehicle may also
contribute the Metroweb fiber-optic network to the venture,
according to Il Sole.  “If confirmed such a deal would be very positive for
Telecom Italia as it would allow it to bring out the value of
the network,” said  Alessandro Frigerio , a  fund manager  at RMJ
Sgr in Milan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  