-- Elektra Surges as Equity Derivatives Unwound: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-06-19T20:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/elektra-surges-as-company-unwinds-some-equity-derivatives-1-.html
Grupo Elektra SA (ELEKTRA*)  surged the most in
three years after unwinding some stock derivatives contracts,
spurring optimism it will remain on the nation’s benchmark stock
index.  Shares of the retail and banking company controlled by
billionaire  Ricardo Salinas  jumped 16 percent to 476.02 pesos at
the close in Mexico City, the steepest advance since March 2009.
The benchmark  IPC index  of 35 Mexican companies rose 1.6
percent.  The stock had been plummeting on concern its equity swaps
would lead to its exit from the IPC, the main yardstick on
Mexican stocks for investors and fund managers. The exchange
changed eligibility rules on April 11, saying shares tied up in
derivatives couldn’t be counted toward the minimum 12 percent
free float requirement. In filings today, Elektra said it has
cut by more than a third the shares represented by the
derivatives since it last disclosed the figure a year ago.  “If they continue down this road, they’ll be able to stay
on the index,” Aldo Miranda, a trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa
SA, said by phone from Mexico City. “Now that they’re fighting
to stay on the Bolsa’s index, it’s possible that the stock won’t
drop further. With the recent drop it’s had, it’s starting to
look a little more attractive”  Elektra, which doesn’t hold quarterly conference calls with
investors, said today it has equity swap derivative contracts
tied to its stock price representing about 14 percent of its
shares, down from about 23 percent in its 2010 annual report.
Under the Bolsa rebalancing rules taking effect in September,
the unwinding should be enough to allow Elektra to remain on the
IPC index.  Salinas Stake  At the end of last year, Salinas and his family had a 70.5
percent stake in Elektra, with the remaining 29.5 percent in the
hands of outside investors. Assuming the 14 percent of shares
represented by derivatives are subtracted from that public float
under the Bolsa’s rules, Elektra would have a float of 15.5
percent, above the Bolsa threshold of 12 percent.  “We heard from our investors that it was important to
provide certainty that the stock represent the value of their
investment,” Bruno Rangel, Elektra’s investor relations
director, said today in a phone interview. “It’s a
demonstration of the openness of the company.”  Before today, the stock had fallen 68 percent since April
11, when the exchange changed its IPC eligibility requirements.
That slashed the premium on a stock that was the nation’s most
expensive. Elektra  traded  at 10.1 times trailing earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization at yesterday’s
close, down from a record high of 44.2 times on Dec. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  