-- England Tops Group at Euro 2012 Soccer; France Also Advances
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-06-19T21:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/england-beats-ukraine-to-finish-atop-group-d-france-advances.html
England  beat Ukraine 1-0 last night
to finish atop its group at soccer’s European Championship ahead
of France, which also advanced to the quarterfinals even after a
2-0 defeat to  Sweden .  England got the victory in Donetsk after co-host Ukraine
had a second-half shot that television pictures appeared to show
crossed the goal-line before being cleared by defender  John Terry .  Wayne Rooney , in his return following a two-game ban,
scored after 48 minutes for England.  “When the ball may have crossed the line, we got a bit of
luck and went on to win,” England manager  Roy Hodgson  told ITV.  England, which has never won the tournament, will play
Italy, while France faces world and defending champion Spain for
a place in the semifinals. In the other quarterfinals, the  Czech
Republic  faces Portugal and Germany takes on Greece.  England finished group play with seven points, three more
than France, with Ukraine and Sweden on three.  “If someone said we’d win the group I don’t think they’d
have many takers,” Hodgson said.  Sweden, already eliminated from the tournament, gave France
a first defeat in 24 matches on goals from Zlatan Ibrahimovic
and Sebastian Larsson in Kiev.  Disputed Goal  Ukraine, needing a win to avoid elimination, was denied a
goal after 62 minutes that would have tied its game against
England.  A shot from Marko Devic was half blocked by England
goalkeeper Joe Hart and looped toward goal. Terry got back to
hook the ball clear, although replays showed it may have crossed
the line before he did so.  Soccer’s world governing body FIFA will decide next month
whether to introduce goal-line technology following incidents
including a disallowed goal by England’s Frank Lampard against
 Germany  at the 2010  World Cup .  Ukraine was mainly restricted to long shots in the first
half, even though it had most of the play, and Andriy Yarmolenko
tested Hart with a low 15-yard (13.7 meter) shot after 30
minutes.  England still had the two best opportunities of the half.
Rooney headed wide from a cross by Manchester United teammate
 Ashley Young  with only the goalkeeper to beat on 28 minutes and
Terry headed over four minutes later.  Rooney Scores  England took the lead three minutes into the second half.
 Steven Gerrard ’s low cross from the right was deflected by a
defender, causing goalkeeper Andriy Pyatov to fail to hold the
ball and allowing Rooney to head into an open goal. It was the
striker’s 29th goal for his country and first at a tournament
since Euro 2004.  Ukraine responded by pinning England back for five minutes,
before Gerrard set Rooney free on a counterattack that led to a
shot from James Milner.  Artem Milevskiy should have tied the game on 61 minutes
when Ukraine took a quick corner and he headed over from six
yards.  Moments later the co-hosts came even closer with the effort
from Devic.  Pyatov denied Ashley Cole a first international goal on the
England fullback’s 97th appearance, while at the other end a
swirling shot by Yevhen Konoplyanka was deflected clear by Hart.  “Rooney’s goal was a tap-in but if he keeps scoring tap-
ins for us we’ll go a long way,” England captain Gerrard told
uefa.com. “He’s important to the team and the nation.”  France Falters  In Kiev,  France  had the better of play in the first half,
though only put two of its 10 shots on target. The best chances
came when France’s Franck Ribery was stopped by goalkeeper
Andreas Isaksson after a turnover in the area and Sweden’s Ola
Toivonen hit the post after beating defender Philippe Mexes and
going around goalkeeper  Hugo Lloris .  Sweden took the lead in the 54th minute as Larsson crossed
from the right into the center of the area for Ibrahimovic, who
twisted and volleyed a shot into the bottom right corner.  Sweden clinched the victory in stoppage time when Christian Wilhelmsson hit the crossbar and the ball rebounded to Larsson,
who fired it into the roof of the open net.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 