-- Environmentalists Say UN Sustainability Pact Lacks Teeth
-- B y   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2012-06-19T16:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/environmentalists-say-un-sustainability-pact-lacks-teeth.html
United Nations envoys endorsed the
broadest steps yet to harmonize economic development with
efforts to protect the environment, measures that pressure
groups say lack the teeth needed to force change.  Delegates from 190 nations put the finishing touches on a
draft agreement early this morning that addresses cuts in
fossil-fuel subsidies, provides support for renewable energy and
details measures to protect oceans, according to diplomats and
Brazil Foreign Minister Antonio Patriota at the UN Conference on
Sustainable Development in  Rio de Janeiro .  Environmental groups from WWF to Greenpeace International
condemned the text, saying the diplomats caved in to pressure
from business groups to water down the text. They called on
world leaders to firm up language in the agreement before they
formally adopt it when the meeting closes on June 22.  “We will now only be presented with a polluter’s charter
that will cook the planet, empty the oceans and wreck the rain
forests,” said Daniel Mittler, political director for
Greenpeace International.  The discussions cap more than a year of work to mark the
20th anniversary of the first Earth Summit, where the UN started
talks to halt global warming and safeguard the diversity of
plants and animals.  The Rio+20 meeting involves 50,000 government officials,
company executives and research analysts and is aimed at setting
an agenda for policy makers to follow in the coming decades. It
will have no force as a treaty.  Conference Sprawl  Participants are spread across Rio in hotels and at an
airport-sized convention center in the west of the city,
discussing subjects from corporate sustainability reporting to
the protection the oceans and ensuring arsenic from mines
doesn’t contaminate drinking water.  “The text is a nice signal, but you could drive a truck
through all the loopholes,” said Jake Schmidt, director of
international climate policy at the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , a New York-based environmental group. “All of the
tangible outcomes were weakened or removed.”  Delegates to the Rio talks said involving business was a
priority and the draft text, entitled “The Future We Want,” is
a road map setting out how industry and policy makers should act
in the coming years.  Celebrity executives, including  Richard Branson  of Virgin
Group Ltd., joined government officials, scientists and
activists in expressing concern about the health of the planet
at the talks this week. Tomorrow, leaders including French
President  Francois Hollande  and UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon
will attend.  ‘Universal Sewer’  “We’re using the ocean as a universal sewer, and that’s
true wherever you live,” Jean-Michel Cousteau, 74, the eldest
son of the French ocean explorer Jacques, said on a panel
discussion at the conference today. “We are putting a lot of
pressure on the planet. It’s not getting any better.”  The text pledges negotiations toward a new set of
“sustainable development” goals, though just what those
targets would entail is being left for future meetings.  “This is a first step, not a long step,” said Quamrul
Chowdhury, an envoy from  Bangladesh  who negotiates on finance
for the G77 group of  developing countries . “The whole document
emphasizes business commitments. It opens up a window for
cooperation between the public sector and the private. It’s not
the classic notion the public sector can do it all alone.”  Middle Ground  The accord represents an effort to chart the middle ground
between countries such as the European Union’s 27 members, which
want to push a “green economy” that includes renewable power
and energy-efficiency measures, and poorer nations whose
priority is lifting people out of poverty rather than pursuing
expensive clean technologies.  “If you look at Rio being successful as dependent on a big
new agreement coming out, we are not going to have any success
coming out of Rio,” said Dawn Rittenhouse, director of
 sustainable development  at DuPont Co. “Look at it as a way to
energize organizations. People are making commitments. They are
talking about the commitments. Hopefully the governments will
follow.”  Friends of the Earth International, another environmental
group, said the UN process has been taken over by big business,
which has diverted the traditional priorities of standing up for
the poor and protecting the Earth.  “Governmental positions have been increasingly hijacked by
narrow corporate interests linked to polluting industries,”
said Nnimmo Bassey, chairman of Friends of the Earth. “The UN
is increasingly catering to the demands of corporate
interests.”  Delegates inserted “toothless language” into their
agreement that will do little to roll back carbon dioxide
emissions or protect the oceans from toxic waste, said Jim Leape, director general of the WWF environmental group.  “The text has lots of words that ‘commit’ parties to
nothing -- such as ‘commit to promote’ and ‘commit to
systematically consider,’” Leape said. “Diplomats in Rio are
letting the world down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in Rio de Janeiro at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg in Rio de Janeiro at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  