-- Merkel Says G-20 Pressed Spain for Clarity on Bank Aid Request
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-06-19T14:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/merkel-says-g-20-pressed-spain-for-clarity-on-bank-aid-request.html
Group of 20 leaders meeting in
Mexico pressed  Spain  to formulate its request for aid to rescue
its blighted banks and help resolve the euro-area crisis, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said.  “All agreed that once audit results are available, then
Spain should make its application as soon as possible,” Merkel
told reporters today in Los Cabos. “Spain will make its request
soon.”  “We also talked about how we need clarity on Spain’s
application as soon as possible,” Merkel said. “We all know
that banks that aren’t properly capitalized are a source of
turmoil and risk for the economy.”  Merkel was speaking on the final day of a G-20 summit
dominated by the financial turmoil in Europe, as Spain’s
borrowing costs soared beyond the 7 percent level that triggered
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to call for a sovereign bailout
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  That stoked speculation Spain may need to request a similar
bailout after the government called for as much as 100 billion
euros ($126 billion) to shore up its banks.  Merkel declined to signal any easing of the bailout terms
for Greece, saying that she asked IMF chief  Christine Lagarde  to
send officials to Greece as soon as possible after a government
is formed.  “We will wait for the result,” Merkel said. “There’s no
point in speculating. We should very tightly keep to the rules
and it’s obvious that the reforms that were agreed in the past
were the right thing and have to be implemented. Now I’m waiting
for the troika report.”  Merkel said that world leaders discussed the crisis in a
“spirit of camaraderie.”  She told the others that “we have problems in the euro
area and that we need to take action,” Merkel said. “I have
the impression that the global community want this effort to
succeed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  