-- Estonia Court Acquits Merko Owner, Former Ministers of Bribery
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-06-19T12:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/estonia-court-acquits-merko-owner-former-ministers-of-bribery.html
An Estonian court acquitted Toomas
Annus, the main owner of  AS Merko Ehitus (MRK1T) , and other defendants
including two former ministers of bribery charges that forced
the largest listed Baltic builder to split into two companies.  The Harju County Court ordered the government to repay the
litigation costs of the seven individuals acquitted,  AS
Jarvevana (JRV1T) , spun off from Merko in 2008, and AS E.L.L.
Kinnisvara, totaling 1.3 million euros ($1.64 million),
according to an e-mailed statement from the court today. The
verdict can be appealed in 15 days in the court of second
instance.  Surveillance proceedings during the investigation including
phone taps and searches violated the legal norms, including the
protection of the basic rights of individuals,  Baltic News
Service  cited Judge Valeri Loonik as saying in court.  Merko in 2008 split into two companies to protect
shareholders and employees after the Public Prosecutor’s Office
started an investigation on suspicion that Annus, 51, and the
company had bribed or offered bribes to government officials,
including former ministers Villu Reiljan and Ester Tuiksoo, for
property transactions involving Land Board.  Annus and Merko have denied any wrongdoing and said the
proceedings have led to lost orders for the company. Jarvevana,
spun off with 19 million euros in assets related to criminal
proceedings, could face a fine of as much as 16 million euros if
the verdict is appealed and the company is found guilty.  Jarvevana shares jumped as much as 25 percent to 51 euro
cents today, the biggest gain since December. The stock has
gained 46 percent in the past 12 months compared with a 37
percent drop for its industrial peers in Eastern Europe,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  