-- MetLife Wins Fed Extension to Resubmit Capital Plan
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-19T13:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/metlife-wins-fed-extension-to-resumbit-capital-plan.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, got more time to submit a fresh capital plan to the
 Federal Reserve  as the firm seeks to raise its dividend and
resume buybacks after being twice blocked by the regulator.  The deadline was moved to Sept. 30 from June 12, the New
York-based insurer said in a regulatory filing today.  “This is basically an acknowledgment by the Fed saying,
‘Look, we understand you’re an insurance company, we understand
you’re not going to be a  bank holding company ,’” said  Steven Schwartz , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates. The time
extension “likely negates any need to possibly raise or build
capital any further.”  Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian , 60, has been
selling banking assets to reduce oversight from the Fed, which
weighs the capital plans of the largest lenders, such as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. Kandarian said in March that the insurer
would no longer have bank status by the end of June, a
prediction he declined to reiterate in April.  MetLife gained 3.2 percent to $30.36 at 9:40 a.m. in New
York. The insurer has  slumped  2.7 percent this year compared
with the 7.5 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The firm has kept its annual dividend at 74 cents a share
since 2007. Prudential Financial Inc., the second-largest U.S.
life insurer, lifted its annual payout in 2009, 2010 and 2011.
The  Newark , New Jersey-based company isn’t subject to the same
Fed scrutiny.  Fed Review  The Fed has been reviewing how 19 of the nation’s largest
lenders would fare in a severe economic slump. MetLife,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , SunTrust Banks Inc. and Ally Financial Inc.’s
capital plans were rejected in the regulator’s latest round of
so-called stress tests in March.  Citigroup retreated this month from an effort to win Fed
approval to boost payouts to shareholders this year. CEO Vikram Pandit, 55, had vowed in March to seek approval for a
“meaningful” payout after the New York-based firm’s initial
submission for 2012 was rebuffed.  Pandit scrapped Citigroup’s dividend in 2009 after the bank
almost collapsed and took a $45 billion bailout from U.S.
taxpayers. The lender has since repaid the rescue funds, and
last year it resumed a 1-cent quarterly payment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  