-- Mets’ Dickey Throws MLB’s First Consecutive 1-Hitters Since 1988
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/mets-r-a-dickey-is-first-with-two-straight-1-hitters-since-88.html
R.A. Dickey of the  New York Mets 
just missed a no-hitter for the second straight start, yet still
made history. The 37-year-old knuckleballer last night became
the first Major League Baseball pitcher to throw consecutive
one-hitters since Toronto’s Dave Stieb in 1988.  Dickey allowed only a fifth-inning single to Wilson Betemit
while striking out a career-high 13 batters in the Mets’ 5-0 win
over the  Baltimore Orioles . It came five days after he gave up
only a first-inning infield single in a 9-1 win over the  Tampa
Bay Rays .  “I’m just working in the moment,” Dickey told reporters
in the clubhouse. “I don’t really feel much more comfortable
than the last several years. I don’t know how to explain it.”  Dickey has an 11-1 record with a 2.00 earned run average
this season. He leads the major leagues in wins and hasn’t
allowed an earned run in his past 42 2/3 innings.  Over his past six starts, Dickey is 6-0 with a 0.18 ERA and
has 63 strikeouts in 48 2/3 innings against five walks.  “It’s been ridiculous,” said Mets first baseman  Ike Davis ,
whose sixth-inning grand slam snapped a scoreless tie. “I don’t
think I’ve ever seen anything like it. It’s nasty, man. I’m glad
he’s on our team.”  Dickey is the first National League pitcher to allow no
more than one hit in consecutive starts since 1944, when  Jim
Tobin  threw a one-hitter and a no-hitter for the Boston Braves.  Unpredictable Knuckleball  Mets manager Terry Collins said Dickey’s performance has
been most impressive because he relies mostly on a knuckleball,
a pitch he throws about 70-80 miles per hour with no spin,
making the flight of the ball erratic and unpredictable.  “This guy is amazing with that pitch,” Collins said of
Dickey. “How he commands it is unbelievable.”  Dickey has now won his past nine decisions and yesterday’s
victory helped the Mets (36-32) end a three-game losing streak.
He had a 19-22 record for the Mets the previous two seasons.  “He just keeps getting better and better,” Collins said.
“I’ve never seen anything like it. Right now, he’s got the feel
for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  