-- EU Lawmakers Seek to Scrap Credit-Ratings Rotation Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-06-19T15:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/eu-lawmakers-approve-amendment-to-scrap-use-of-credit-ratings.html
European Union lawmakers voted to
scrap most of a proposal to force businesses to rotate the
credit-ratings company they hire to assess their debt, while
backing tighter restrictions on sovereign-debt ratings.  The European Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee voted today in Brussels to scale back the proposed
rotation requirement so that it would apply only to
securitizations and other kinds of so-called structured finance.
The stance brings the Parliament’s position largely into line
with that of EU national governments, which must also approve
the new rules proposed by the bloc’s regulators last year.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s regulatory arm,
proposed the rotation rule last year as part of a draft law to
toughen regulation of the ratings industry amid concerns that
some of its decisions exacerbated the euro-area debt crisis. The
commission said rotation would boost competition and solve
potential conflicts of interest.  “The debt crisis in the eurozone has shown that  credit
rating agencies  have gained too much influence,” Leonardo Domenici, the lawmaker leading work on the rules for the
parliament said in an e-mail.  “In reaction we have
strengthened rules on sovereign debt ratings and conflicts of
interest.”  Under the commission’s original rotation proposal,
companies would have been obliged to change the company that
they pay to rate their credit every three years.  Partial Exemption  Lawmakers in the parliament voted to amend this so rotation
for rating structured finance products would be required every
five years, with a partial exemption for companies using more
than two ratings companies. EU governments agreed to restrict
forced rotation to so-called re-securitized debt.  Parliament and national governments must now begin
discussions on a final compromise bill before the legislation
can become law.  The assembly is already locked in negotiations with nations
over another draft law to regulate bank capital rules and banker
bonuses. Eight meetings held between the two sides have so far
failed to broker a deal over key issues in that legislation.  For sovereign debt, the parliament’s amendments would
require ratings companies to pick two to three dates a year for
issuing assessments, with publication outside these dates
subject to approval by the European Securities and Markets
Authority.  Such ESMA approval would only be forthcoming in cases of
“exceptional and unforeseen circumstances,” according to the
text of parliament’s amendments.  Sovereign-Debt Ratings  National governments have rejected imposing such curbs on
sovereign-debt ratings in their discussions on the draft law.  Lawmakers also called for the EU to begin making its own
public assessments of governments’ creditworthiness. Still,
Domenici withdrew earlier proposals for the EU to set up a so-
called European Creditworthiness Authority to issue these
ratings.  The assembly also called for ratings firms to give the
percentage probability that a creditor will default.  “The idea to show rating results in figures and not in
letters makes rating more rationale and efficient, which avoids
psychologically driven decisions,” Sven Giegold, the lawmaker
guiding work on the rules for the Parliament’s Green group, said
in an interview before the vote.  The lawmakers also sought to bolster the commission’s
proposals by calling for a ban on mergers between large ratings
companies, and for all references to credit ratings to be
repealed from EU financial regulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net ; 