-- EU Nations Said to Be Split Over Lending Plan for Failing Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-06-19T14:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/eu-nations-said-to-be-split-over-lending-plan-for-failing-banks.html
European Union nations are split
over plans to force governments to lend to each other as a last
resort to stabilize crisis-hit  banks , according to two people
familiar with the matter.  Germany and  Sweden  are among nations opposing the move,
part of a broader proposal to take taxpayers off the hook for
bank rescues, said the people, who couldn’t be identified
because the talks are private. The plan, discussed by diplomats
at a meeting in Brussels yesterday, received support from other
nations, including Italy and  France .  Michel Barnier , the EU financial services chief, proposed
setting up a network of national bank-financed funds to shore up
crisis-hit lenders in a draft law this month. He said the
measure was needed to prevent a repeat of the public bailouts
that followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Preben Aaman, a spokesman for the Danish presidency of the
EU, and Stefaan De-Rynck, spokesman for Barnier, declined to
immediately comment. The proposals need to be approved by
nations and by lawmakers in the European Parliament before they
can enter into force.  Barnier said that these funds should be required to lend to
each other if a country had exhausted contributions from its
lenders, and other back-up options such as central bank loans.
The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, said
the proposal was a first step toward banking union, with
financial backstops and supervision of lenders.  Poland , along with Germany and Sweden, said that any
emergency lending between national funds should be voluntary,
according to the people.  The U.K. has previously said that it was opposed to such
funds as they could encourage lenders to take excessive risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  