-- EU’s Almunia Will ‘Take Steps’ on Visa Antitrust Probe
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-19T14:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/eu-s-almunia-says-he-will-take-steps-on-visa-antitrust-probe.html
European Union Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said he would deepen an antitrust
investigation into  Visa Europe  Ltd.’s cross-border credit-card
and deferred-debit transaction fees.  “I will take steps in the next few weeks to move forward
with our ongoing investigation of Visa,” Almunia told the
European Parliament in Brussels.  Almunia said last year he planned to send the company a
formal antitrust complaint. Visa Europe, operator of the largest
payment-card network in the 27-nation EU, reduced similar fees
for  debit cards  last year to settle a 2009 EU complaint.  Payment transaction fees paid by retailers are “still too
high and too unequal” across the 27-nation bloc, Almunia said
last month. Regulators won backing from an EU court in May,
which confirmed their ruling that  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  unfairly
inflated fees payments made outside a user’s home country.  Visa Europe “has consistently said that it would like to
reach a commercially acceptable agreement on an appropriate
methodology for setting credit and deferred-debit interchange in
the interests of all stakeholders in the payments industry,”
Amanda Kamin, a spokeswoman for Visa Europe in London, said in
an e-mail.  Almunia said he wanted to explore “a solution that would
provide legal certainty” to the entire payments cards industry
and didn’t exclude regulation for card fees. Any rules for the
payment industry would need to be proposed by his colleague, EU
Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier , he said.  The so-called interchange fee, based on Visa’s guidelines,
is paid by the retailer’s bank to the bank that issued the
customer’s card.  Visa Europe split from  Visa Inc. (V)  before the U.S. card
company’s initial public offering in early 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 