-- Euro Rises Against Dollar as EU Seeks Acceptable Greek Path
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-19T21:16:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/euro-strengthens-versus-dollar-gains-0-2-percent-to-1-2602.html
The euro rallied to almost the
highest level in a month against the dollar after a European
Union official said a politically acceptable path will be sought
for renegotiating  Greece ’s bailout conditions.  The U.S. currency fell against most of its major
counterparts as the  Federal Reserve  starts a two-day meeting
where 12 primary dealers expect some form of added stimulus from
the central bank, while nine expect no action. The pound
weakened versus the euro after  U.K. inflation  slowed in May to
the least in 2 1/2 years. Mexico’s peso and  Canada ’s dollar rose
after a report showed a measure of future construction in the
U.S. climbed to the highest since September 2008.  “Any move now by the EU to take a softer stance on Greece
would be welcome by the market,” Shahab Jalinoos, a  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based senior currency strategist at UBS AG, said in
a telephone interview. “It reduces the chance of it becoming a
new problem in the months ahead.”  The euro appreciated 0.9 percent to $1.2685 at 5 p.m. New
York time. It reached $1.2748 yesterday, the strongest level
since May 22. The shared currency gained 0.7 percent to 100.15
yen. The dollar weakened 0.2 percent to 78.95 against the
Japanese currency.  Spanish Sale  The 17-nation currency erased a decline versus the yen as
 Spain  sold its maximum target of 12- and 18-month bills even as
yields rose. Spanish 10-year yields jumped 28 basis points, or
0.28 percentage point, to 7.16 percent yesterday, above the 7
percent rate that pushed Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
rescue packages. The yield dropped 12 basis points to 7.04
percent today.  LCH Clearnet Ltd., Europe’s biggest clearing house, raised
the extra deposit it demands from clients to trade most Spanish
 government bonds . The margin needed for Spanish securities due
in 10 years to 15 years will be increased to 14.7 percent,
according to a statement on LCH Clearnet’s website.  “The fact that they are renegotiating suggests they will
extend and pretend meaning there is less and less risk of Greece
leaving the union and the credit tension eases,” said Boris Schlossberg, managing director of foreign-exchange in  New York 
at BK Asset Management, an investment advisory firm. “As of
today there is rampant expectation of some sort of monetary
action on both sides of the ocean and that’s what’s driving
risk.”  Market Swings  The implied volatility for one-month euro-dollar options,
which indicates expected swings in the underlying currencies,
slipped to 10.99 percent. It reached a high of 13.29 percent
last week. While that’s up from 8.25 percent in April, it’s
below last year’s peak of 18.42 in September. The JPMorgan G7
 Volatility Index  was at 10.30. It rose to 11.88 this month from
8.84 in April, the least since November 2007.  The euro’s trend higher against the dollar since June 1 may
be at risk, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 17-
nation common currency faces so-called resistance versus the
dollar at yesterday’s high of $1.2748, and may find support
versus the dollar at $1.2288, the June 1 low, the data show.  A resistance level is an area on a price graph where
analysts anticipate a grouping of orders to sell a currency and
a support level occurs where they anticipate buy orders to be
clustered.  Once a Greek government is formed, representatives of the
so-called troika of the EU,  International Monetary Fund  and
 European Central Bank  will travel to  Athens  and evaluate any
requests for adaptations in the aid program, the official told
reporters on condition of anonymity in Brussels today.  Global Leaders  G-20 leaders are also meeting in Los Cabos, Mexico, for a
second consecutive summit to be dominated by  Europe ’s debt woes,
with Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  attending the talks.  The euro is down from this year’s high of $1.3487 on Feb.
24, and has depreciated 6.5 percent in the past 12 months
against a basket of nine developed-market peers, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has
appreciated 6.4 percent and the yen advanced 6.6 percent.  Fed policy makers gather amid speculation they will
consider further stimulus measures to sustain U.S. growth. The
Fed will review new forecasts at its two-day meeting as it
contends with continuing financial stress in Europe and a U.S.
 unemployment rate  that has remained above 8 percent for 40
consecutive months.  “A lot of people are expecting more easing from the Fed,
so people want to be ready to take advantage of that,” said
Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York. “The market reaction to previous
announcements of easing is seeing Australian and Canadian dollar
rally so people are already taking those positions.”  Dollar Measure  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, declined 0.7 percent to 81.392,
after yesterday touching 81.161, the lowest level since May 22.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Jefferies Group Inc. predict
policy makers will extend the Fed’s so-called Operation Twist.
The $400 billion program, which was announced in September and
ends this month, involved selling short-maturity debt and buying
longer-term bonds.  “A mere extension of Operation Twist may disappoint
markets that have been expecting something more aggressive,”
said Yuki Sakasai, a currency strategist at  Barclays Capital  in
New York. “That may lead to some selling of risk currencies,
and buying back of the dollar.”  Canada’s dollar rose 0.6 percent to C$1.0178, after
touching C$1.0167, the strongest since May 22.  Mexico ’s peso
rallied again all its major counterparts, gaining 1 percent to
13.6846 per dollar.  Building permits in the nation’s biggest trading partner,
climbed to the highest level since September 2008, showing the
combination of lower prices and record-low  mortgage rates  is
underpinning demand and encouraging new projects.  The pound depreciated 0.5 percent to 80.66 pence per euro.  U.K. consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in May from a year
earlier, compared with a 3 percent increase in April, the  Office
for National Statistics  said today in  London . That’s the weakest
since November 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  