-- Europe Leaders Pledge to Defend Euro, G-20 Statement Says
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-06-19T22:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/europe-leaders-pledge-to-defend-euro-g-20-statement-says.html
Euro-area leaders at the Group of 20
summit pledged to “take all necessary policy measures” to
defend the currency union and boost protection of the region’s
struggling banks, according to the final statement issued at a
meeting in  Mexico .  With contagion from the debt crisis rippling through the
world economy, participants at the G-20 summit in the beach
resort of Los Cabos backed measures to spur growth and cut
budgets in  Europe  while saying the U.S. will “calibrate” the
pace of its spending cuts to avoid a “sharp fiscal
contraction” in 2013.  At the end of the two-day summit, the leaders of advanced
and emerging economies said Europe is taking steps toward closer
economic union “that lead to sustainable borrowing costs.” The
G-20 also backed Europe’s plans to move toward a more integrated
banking industry.  Talks among G-20 leaders at Los Cabos were dominated by the
crisis in 17-nation euro region and its threat to the world
economy. Bond yields in  Spain , the region’s fourth-biggest
economy, rose to a euro-era record yesterday, above the 7
percent level that led to bailouts in  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal .  The group welcomed the plan to rescue Spain’s banks and the
European Union’s efforts to build up its crisis defenses,
including the European Stability Mechanism, the region’s
permanent bailout fund scheduled to start up in July.  G-20 leaders backed the euro area’s “intention to
consider” steps toward what policy makers are calling a banking
union, including “banking supervision, resolution and
recapitalization, and  deposit insurance .” Those proposals will
probably be discussed at the next EU summit on June 28 and 29 in
Brussels.  Faced with Spain’s banking crisis and speculation that the
country’s may need a sovereign bailout, euro-area leaders agreed
to “break the feedback loop between sovereigns and banks,” the
G-20 said in the statement.  “Against the background of renewed market tensions, euro
area members of the G20 will take all necessary measures to
safeguard the integrity and stability of the area.”  Bridging a policy gap between Germany and  France , EU
countries in the G-20 agreed to “move forward expeditiously”
to promote economic growth “while maintaining the firm
commitment to implement fiscal consolidation,” according to the
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Los Cabos at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Los Cabos at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  