-- Euro Crisis Shifts to Spain as Merkel Faces G-20 Pressure
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-06-19T06:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/euro-crisis-shifts-to-spain-as-merkel-faces-g-20-pressure.html
Group of 20 leaders focused their
response to  Europe ’s financial crisis on stabilizing banks as
the  International Monetary Fund  raised its lending capacity to
shield the rest of the world economy.  Emerging countries boosted their pledges to the IMF’s
global firewall, nearly doubling the fund’s resources to $456
billion, at a G-20 summit in  Mexico  dominated by the global
effort to restore confidence in the euro.  President  Barack Obama  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
facing pressure from the U.S. and fellow European leaders to do
more to stem the crisis, met before the summit after trading
accusations in recent weeks over responsibility for the turmoil.  “The president was encouraged by what he heard regarding
ongoing discussions in Europe about the paths they are pursuing
to address the crisis,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told
reporters during the summit in Los Cabos yesterday.  An after-dinner meeting of Obama and the leaders of the
four participating euro-area countries -- Germany, France, Italy
and Spain -- was canceled after summit participants agreed that
they had spent enough time on the crisis, an official from a
G-20 nation familiar with discussions said.  China,  Brazil , Mexico, India and Russia announced
contributions to the IMF to bolster a “second line of
defense,” fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in an
e-mailed statement. China will contribute $43 billion, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported. The others’ share was $10
billion each.  Firewall Concern  “There is concern that the firewall available may not be
adequate to deal with contagion,” Indian Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  said at the summit. “The resources currently
expected to be mobilized by Europe and the IMF are less than was
estimated a year ago, and the crisis is actually more serious.”  G-20 chiefs met as Spain’s borrowing costs soared to a
euro-era record and elections in Greece failed to damp the
threat of contagion. While Merkel rejects pooling euro-area debt
or boosting deficit spending, Obama has blamed the financial
crisis in the world’s second-biggest economic bloc for slowing
U.S. employment growth.  Europe is making an effort to “break the feedback loop”
between banks and government debt, the link that is worsening
 Spain ’s woes, the Treasury Department’s top international
negotiator,  Lael Brainard , told reporters.  European Shift  “We’re seeing a notable shift in European discussion”
toward spurring economic growth and “laying out a path to
financial union,” she said.  The euro-area’s G-20 governments will commit to protecting
the currency union, according to an excerpt of a draft of the
statement that leaders will issue at the summit’s close.  Euro-area members of the G-20 “will take all necessary
policy measures to safeguard the integrity and stability of the
area, improve financial markets and break the feedback loop
between sovereigns and banks,” according to the draft provided
by an official from a G-20 government who asked not to be
identified because the statement is not yet public.  With European Union leaders preparing to discuss the path
to closer political and economic union at a summit in Brussels
on June 28-29, Merkel has distanced herself from proposals for a
banking union. She said last week that steps such as jointly
insuring deposits and joint euro-area bonds can’t replace budget
discipline and increased competitiveness.  Spanish Yields  The euro extended declines yesterday as Spanish 10-year
bond yields leapt above the 7 percent level that forced  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  to call for outside aid. That stoked
speculation Spain may need to request a sovereign bailout after
the government called for as much as 100 billion euros ($126
billion) to shore up its blighted banks.  G-20 leaders are in Los Cabos for their second consecutive
summit to be dominated by the crisis. Spain’s Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  is also attending the talks, as the respite in
markets after a victory for the pro-bailout New Democracy party
in Greek elections on June 17 proved short-lived.  Merkel damped speculation that the terms of Greece’s
bailout might be relaxed.  “The important thing is that the new government sticks
with the commitments that have been made,” Merkel told
reporters. “There can be no loosening on these reform steps.”  Crisis Fatigue  China  and Indonesia set the tone of the meeting by
signaling growing exasperation with more than two years of
European crisis-fighting that has failed to stem the threat of
global contagion.  Even as Obama said that now is the time “to make sure that
all of us do what’s necessary to stabilize the world financial
system,” European leaders pushed back, saying they alone are
not responsible for the slowing global recovery.  No one thinks the EU “is the only source of the problem,”
said Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti . The crisis “had its
origins in imbalances in other countries, including the U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Los Cabos via 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Los Cabos via 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at   acrawford6@bloomberg.net  