-- Ex-National Lampoon CEO Durham Seeks Acquittal at Trial
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   H o w a r d   S m u l e v i t z
-- 2012-06-19T23:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/ex-national-lampoon-ceo-durham-seeks-acquittal-at-trial.html
Timothy S. Durham, a former  National
Lampoon Inc. (NLMP)  president and leveraged buyout firm executive
didn’t defraud investors in Ohio-based Fair Finance Co., his
lawyer told federal court jurors in Indianapolis.  Defense attorney John L. Tompkins, in his closing arguments
today ending an eight-day trial, called prosecutors’ fraud
allegations a “false premise,” saying his client tried to
sustain the Akron-based company by putting $28 million of his
own money into it.  Durham and two other men were indicted last year for
allegedly cheating 5,000 investors in a $200 million scheme
involving interest-bearing notes issued by Fair Finance.  Durham and co-defendant James F. Cochran, aided by co-
defendant Rick Snow, made false and misleading statements about
the company’s financial condition, prosecutors said. The men
maintain they are not guilty.  Each faces 10 counts of  wire fraud  and one of  securities
fraud , all punishable by as long as 20 years in prison, and one
count of conspiring to commit those crimes.  “Durham was the master.” Assistant U.S. Attorney Winfield Ong said in his closing argument. “Cochran was the sales guy.
Snow was the finance guy.”  Durham used a company that he and Cochran controlled as a
“slush fund,” into which they diverted $85 million derived
from Fair Finance, Ong said.  Obsidian Enterprises  Durham is CEO of the Indianapolis-based leveraged buyout
firm Obsidian Enterprises Inc.  He resigned his National Lampoon
post in January. That company isn’t mentioned in the indictment.  Durham and Cochran acquired Fair Finance through a holding
company in 2002. Operating in  Ohio  since 1934, Fair Finance
provided liquidity to businesses by buying their accounts
receivable at a discount. The company raised money by selling
interest-bearing certificates to investors, according to the
indictment.  Before jurors begin deliberations, they will be instructed
tomorrow by U.S. District Judge Jane Magnus-Stinson on the law
they must apply to the evidence they heard at trial.  The case is U.S. v. Durham, 11-cr-00042, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Indiana  (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  