-- Faulty Model and Design Changes Led San Onofre to Shut, NRC Says
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-06-19T05:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/faulty-model-and-design-changes-led-san-onofre-to-shut-nrc-says.html
Faulty computer analysis and
manufacturing changes appear to have caused excessive wear in
steam generator tubes at  Edison International (EIX) ’s San Onofre
nuclear plant in  California , according to federal regulators.  Edison altered the way tubes were assembled at its Unit 3
reactor, where support structures failed to keep some pipes from
rubbing together and degrading prematurely, U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission officials said at a public meeting.
Inspectors found much more wear on Unit 3 compared with the Unit
2 reactor, which didn’t use the same assembly design, the
regulators said. The reactors have been shut since January.  “This is a significant and serious safety issue,” Elmo
Collins, regional administrator for the NRC, said at the meeting
yesterday in San Juan Capistrano, California.  The computer design simulation software used by Edison
failed to predict accurately the velocity of steam and water
flowing through the tubes, underestimating it by a factor of
three to four, Greg Werner, NRC branch chief, said at the
meeting. This contributed to the excess corrosion, Collins said.  Eight tubes failed during earlier pressure tests at Unit 3,
which is “unprecedented” in the industry, Collins said.  The NRC hasn’t determined whether Edison violated any rules
and doesn’t have a timeline for restarting the plant. Federal
regulators are also still evaluating whether Edison needed to
amend its license for changes made to its generators.  Edison agreed with the facts of NRC’s presentation, the
company’s Chief Nuclear Officer Peter Dietrich said at the
meeting. The utility will keep its plant offline until the NRC
decides it’s safe to restart, Dietrich said.  Blackout Risk  The closure increases the risk of blackouts in  Southern
California , where San Onofre provided power to about 1.4 million
homes, federal regulators said last month. State grid operators
are encouraging conservation and have restarted two retired
natural-gas-fired plants to help replace the output from
Edison’s crippled reactors.  San Onofre will be shut through August as Edison develops a
restart plan, Chief Executive Officer Ted Craver said in a
statement on June 8.  The NRC, which sent extra inspectors to the plant after a
small leak shut its Unit 3 reactor in January, found unusual
wear on some steam generator tubes that carry radioactive water
at both reactors. San Onofre’s Unit 2 was shut in January for
planned maintenance and refueling.  Repair Work  Some tubes were rubbing, causing them to degrade, Craver
said on May 30. Edison has plugged and repaired about 3 percent
of the tubes in the generators, Craver said.  The plan to repair and restart its reactors will probably
be submitted by the end of July, the company has said.  The steam generators, built by  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7011) , were installed in 2009 and 2010 at a cost of $671 million.
Mitsubishi Heavy also provided the computer simulation software
used at the plant, though Collins said Edison was “ultimately
responsible” for it.  Edison estimated its share of inspection and repair costs
to be in the range of $55 million to $65 million, according to a
filing in May. The utility paid $30 million for replacement
power through March 31 and those costs are probably going to
increase in the summer, Edison said in the filing.  Edison’s Southern California Edison utility and  Sempra
Energy (SRE) ’s San Diego Gas & Electric Co. will pay $2.5 million a
month for power from two  AES Corp. (AES)  generating units to help make
up for lost capacity from San Onofre, the state’s grid operator,
California ISO, said on May 11.  Edison owns 78.21 percent of San Onofre, while Sempra owns
20 percent and the city of Riverside owns 1.8 percent, according
to Edison’s website.  San Onofre, located about 60 miles (97 kilometers) south of
 Los Angeles , can produce enough power for 1.76 million average
homes, based on Energy Department statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  