-- Fed Born of Morgan’s Bailout Scrutinized After Dimon’s Loss
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-06-19T17:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/fed-born-of-morgan-s-bailout-under-scrutiny-after-dimon-s-loss.html
After John Pierpont Morgan stepped
in to quell the panic of 1907, U.S. lawmakers created the
 Federal Reserve  in 1913 as a lender of last resort to defend
against future financial crises.  Almost a century later, the disclosure of a $2 billion
trading loss by the man who now heads the Morgan banking empire,
 Jamie Dimon , has prompted calls to end an arrangement that
Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders calls “a clear example of the
fox guarding the hen house.”  The bill signed by President Woodrow Wilson created a
decentralized institution with a Washington-based Federal
Reserve Board and 12 regional banks. Each has its own president
and board that includes representatives from the banking
industry. Dimon, chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , has served since  2007  as a director of the  Federal Reserve
Bank of New York , the entity that oversees Wall Street banks
including Dimon’s, the largest U.S. lender.  “The optics in a situation like this are not good,” said
Alfred Broaddus, former president of the Richmond Fed. “Maybe
it is fair now to take a look at this structure and see whether
it still makes sense.”  Sanders on May 22 introduced the Federal Reserve
Independence Act, along with Democratic Senators Barbara Boxer
of California and  Mark Begich  of Alaska. The bill to ban
employees of bank holding companies or other firms regulated by
the Fed from serving on regional boards calls the arrangement a
“conflict of interest that must be eliminated.” Sean Oblack, a
spokesman for the Senate Banking Committee, said the bill is
being reviewed. A hearing hasn’t been scheduled.  Support Seen  Sanders, an independent, said in a June 14 interview that
while Democratic leaders have not assured him they will allow a
vote, he will try to force one as an amendment to unrelated
legislation. He said a coalition of “progressives and some of
the very conservative members who have long-term concerns about
the Fed” would join in support of the bill.  “It advances the discussion because of the timing, as
clearly Dimon is what raised the issue,” said Mark Calabria,
director of financial regulation studies at the  Cato Institute 
in Washington and a former Senate Banking Committee aide.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress on June 7 that
the central bank would be willing to work with lawmakers on the
bill. “If Congress wants to change it, of course we will” work
with them, Bernanke said. “Congress set this up,” and “we’ve
made it into something useful and valuable.”  Fed Meeting  Bernanke and fellow Fed policy makers meet in Washington
today and tomorrow to consider whether to increase record
monetary stimulus to spur a weakening economy.  Dimon, in testimony today at a House Financial Services
Committee hearing about JPMorgan’s $2 billion trading loss, said
regional Fed banks benefit from industry leaders’ input. The
board is “more of an informational, advisory group,” he said.
“Whatever the lawmakers write would be fine with me.”  Still, he said, “If I had a board, I’d want to hear from a
lot of different types of people. It’d be funny to be talking
about global markets and not have someone involved in the global
markets at the table. It certainly does not have to be me.”  Board members  have no role in the supervision or regulation
of banks, and reserve banks may not share confidential
supervisory information with directors.  Elizabeth Warren , a Democrat running for  U.S. Senate  in
Massachusetts, called for Dimon’s removal from the district bank
board. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner has said having
bankers on the board of the  New York  Fed creates a
“perception” problem.  Balance of Power  The Fed’s structure has its  origins  in efforts to find a
balance of power between politicians in Washington, representing
farmers and small businesses, and Wall Street financiers.  “The creation of the Federal Reserve was controversial,
almost a battle between banking interests in New York on the one
hand with opposition and a lot of concern from the populist
segment in Washington,” Broaddus said. “Whoever says ‘What’s
that guy doing on the board?’ doesn’t know all the background.”  The compromise created a central bank that was both
independent of the government and decentralized. Having regional
reserve banks “meant that monetary policy would not be
completely dominated by the New York financial community or the
 Washington  political process,” said former St. Louis Fed
President William Poole.  Emergency Lending  The Fed was also given the power to lend to banks in
emergencies, as the Morgan-led consortium of bankers did to
avert a deeper economic crisis in 1907. Morgan propped up the
stock market by pressuring bankers to form a pool of money to
bail out stockbrokers. The first Federal Reserve Board, led by
Chairman Charles S. Hamlin, was sworn in on Aug. 10, 1914.  The Federal Reserve Act created nine-member boards for each
of the  reserve banks  and assigned three of those seats to
bankers. Banks in each district select six directors, including
the three bankers, who give advice on regional economic
conditions. The Board of Governors in Washington picks the other
three members. The six directors who aren’t bankers represent
the public.  “There’s an image problem, but that image problem has been
there for 100 years,” said Allan Meltzer, a professor of
political economy at  Carnegie Mellon University  in Pittsburgh
who has written a history of the Fed. Congress reduced the role
bankers play on reserve bank boards in the 1930s, 1970s and
again with the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, Meltzer said.  Dimon was on the New York Fed’s board in 2008 when the
central bank agreed to take $30 billion of Bear Stearns Cos.’s
mortgage assets to facilitate JPMorgan’s purchase of the failing
investment bank.  Political Backlash  The political backlash that followed Fed bailouts of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and Bear Stearns prompted
lawmakers to curb the influence of bankers on the regional Fed
boards when they drafted the Dodd-Frank Act, the biggest
overhaul of financial regulation since the Great Depression.  Under Dodd-Frank, bankers on the regional Fed boards may no
longer participate in the choice of presidents, a move that the
New York Fed’s William C. Dudley in a September interview said
he supported. Lawmakers rejected a proposal to make the New York
Fed chief a White House appointee subject to confirmation by the
Senate.  Dodd-Frank also required a Government Accountability Office
 audit  of the central bank, which was completed last year and
found the Fed needs to strengthen policies governing conflicts
of interest and improve transparency.  GAO Conclusions  The GAO said it found no evidence of reserve bank directors
making decisions about approving borrower participation in
emergency programs. Bernanke, in a reply included with the
report, said the recommendations “all have merit” and the Fed
“will work to implement each of them.”  “We have to take appearance of conflict really seriously
because it does affect the institution by creating questions
about our credibility,” Dudley said in the September interview.  Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat and
co-author of Dodd-Frank, wasn’t satisfied. He introduced a bill
in November to remove regional Fed bank presidents from the
 Federal Open Market Committee , which votes on monetary policy.  Regional presidents “are neither elected nor appointed by
officials who are themselves elected,” Frank wrote in a
 position paper . “They are part of a self-perpetuating group of
private citizens who select each other and who are treated as
equals in setting federal monetary policy with officials
appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate.”  Frank’s bill has no co-sponsors, and the Republican-led
House hasn’t scheduled any action on the measure.  Presidents Rotate  The FOMC is comprised of the seven governors plus five
regional Fed presidents. The president of the New York Fed is
vice chairman of the FOMC and has a permanent vote, while the
rest of the regional presidents rotate onto the committee.  The 7-3 vote at the FOMC meeting last August underlined the
need to replace the presidents, Frank said in the paper. The
Dallas Fed’s  Richard Fisher , Narayana Kocherlakota of
Minneapolis and Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  dissented against
the Fed’s statement that economic conditions were likely to
warrant “exceptionally low”  interest rates  through mid-2013, a
time frame that has since been extended to late 2014.  The regional Fed bank presidents have been among the most
vocal critics of the Fed’s easing policies, which have included
purchasing $2.3 trillion of government and agency mortgage-
backed securities.  Defending Role  The regional presidents defend the role of bankers on their
boards. Kansas City’s Esther George last month said in a
statement that they provide “critical, in-depth information
about economic conditions in their communities.”  “It’s been a good system,” St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  told reporters June 5. “People think it’s crazy but
it’s not.”  Gary Stern , who led the Minneapolis Fed for 24 years until
retiring in 2009, said bankers don’t need to be on boards to
offer advice.  “If I were starting from scratch with a clean slate, I
think in today’s world I probably wouldn’t want bankers on the
board for the perception reasons,” he said in a May 30
interview. “A reserve bank president can call up any banker who
he wants to and ask them what’s going on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  