-- FedEx Gains After Pledging Cuts as Economy Presses Profit
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-06-19T20:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/fedex-forecasts-quarterly-profit-smaller-than-estimates.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s
largest cargo airline, climbed after pledging “significant cost
reductions” as slowing economic growth pressures profits.  FedEx’s express unit, which accounts for the bulk of sales,
is developing a detailed strategy to improve efficiency in its
operating expenses, Chief Financial Officer Alan Graf said on an
earnings call. The Memphis, Tennessee-based company said earlier
this month it retired 24 jet freighters and would offer more
details late this year on its cost-savings plan.  FedEx rose 2.8 percent to $91.01 at the close in New York.
The largest increase in two weeks, the move erased declines
following a lower profit forecast than analysts estimated.  “The shares probably bounced back up based on the
company’s plan to introduce some new cost savings” at an
investor conference in October,  David Campbell , an analyst at
Thompson Davis & Co. in Richmond,  Virginia , said in a telephone
interview. “It will probably allow the company to earn more
than what they are estimating in their release for 2013.”  FedEx predicted profit of $6.90 to $7.40 a share in the
fiscal year through May, compared with an average estimate of
$7.38.  Revenue and earnings growth will be impacted by “weaker
economic conditions” such as the  European debt crisis , and
slowing growth in  Asia , executives said on the call. Customers
are shifting from premium to deferred products as they seek to
reduce shipping expenses, a trend expected to continue in 2013,
executives said.  Weaker Economy  An economic bellwether because it carries everything from
mobile devices to pharmaceuticals, FedEx forecast U.S. economic
growth of 2.2 percent for this fiscal year, said  Jess Bunn , a
company spokesman. That’s down from a forecast of 2.3 percent in
December, he said.  The tepid growth, which trails FedEx’s projections a few
years ago, prompted the restructuring plans, Graf said.  “For our aspirational goals we needed a little bit
stronger growth than what we’ve had and what we’re actually
looking for,” he said. “We now realize we’ve got to adjust the
networks that we built for higher gross domestic product growth
than we’re actually seeing.”  Net income  for the fiscal fourth quarter that ended in May
fell 1.4 percent to $550 million, or $1.73 a share, from $558
million, or $1.75, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $11 billion
from $10.6 billion.  International Shipments  Earnings were hurt by weak air freight traffic on routes
from Asia to  North America  and  Europe , said  Lee Klaskow , a
Bloomberg Industries analyst in Skillman,  New Jersey .  Average daily package volume in the U.S. fell 4.9 percent
in the period, a more rapid decline than in the three months
through February, FedEx said.  On the same basis, international priority shipments also
dropped more rapidly, falling 3.4 percent compared with 1.1
percent in the prior three-month period.  “International priority was on this nice trajectory and
that seems to have hit a soft patch here,” said  Peter Nesvold ,
an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York. FedEx was
“optimistic about what international priority volumes would
look like this quarter, and it looked like there would be
growth.” Nesvold has a hold rating on the shares, while
Thompson Davis’s Campbell assigned a buy rating.  The company still expects to increase revenue and earnings
this fiscal year, “despite modest growth in the global
economy,” Graf said on the call.  GDP Forecasts  U.S. GDP forecasts for 2012 and 2013 were cut by economists
at Morgan Stanley in  New York  last week in part because of the
intensification of the European debt crisis.  The U.S. will expand 2 percent this year, down from a
previous estimate of 2.3 percent, and 1.7 percent next year
rather than 2 percent, Morgan Stanley said.  Manufacturing grew at a slower pace in May as factories
tempered production and pared inventories in response to
weakness in the global economy, according to a June 1 report
from the  Institute for Supply Management .  The ISM’s factory index fell to 53.5 after reaching a 10-
month high of 54.8 in April. Readings greater than 50 signal
expansion.  “Customers in general are being fairly conservative in
terms of how they’re managing their supply chains until they see
a little stronger growth,” Michael Glenn, head of FedEx
Services, said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  