-- Fendi on Sale at African Malls Where Bling Still King: Retail
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-06-19T22:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/fendi-on-sale-at-african-malls-where-bling-still-king-retail.html
After decades of using African
ostrich leather, diamonds, gold and platinum to craft handbags,
watches and the like, luxury manufacturers want to send some of
those goods back -- and the locals are eager to buy.  With oil exports from Angola and  Nigeria  minting new
millionaires, and the middle class growing in South Africa and
Morocco,  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) ,  Prada SpA (1913) , and other luxury
companies are opening stores in African cities to cater to
demand for displaying newfound wealth.  “The mix of customers is changing,” Michele Norsa, chief
executive officer of Italian shoemaker  Salvatore Ferragamo SpA (SFER) ,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “You see
nationalities of people you had never figured buying -- from
Angola, Nigeria or Latin American countries.”    Burberry opened its first boutique in Johannesburg at the
end of last year, adding to the store it has had in Cape Town
since 2008.  Louis Vuitton (MC) , Fendi, Gucci, Prada, Miu Miu and
others have outlets in Casablanca’s first luxury mall, which
opened in December. Swiss watchmaker Breitling distributes its
timepieces via wholesalers in Ghana, Algeria and 10 other
African countries.  “There is a new focus on  Africa ,” Italian suitmaker
Ermenegildo Zegna Group said in April, announcing plans to open
its first stores in Morocco and Nigeria.  Even as brands rush in, most wealthy Africans still buy
their $750 Ferragamo suede sandals or $4,100 patent-leather
Vuitton handbags on jaunts to Europe or the Middle East. The
shops remain important in building brand awareness even if they
don’t rack up much in sales.  Accrued Esteem  The esteem gained from buying an expensive watch in Paris
or Dubai “doesn’t accrue to you unless there’s a knowledge in
the local environment of what that brand means,” said Jolyon
Ford, a senior analyst at consultant  Oxford Analytica.   Sixty percent of Africa’s U.S. dollar millionaires, or
71,000 people, are in  South Africa , the region’s largest
economy, according to consultant Bain & Co. That’s more
millionaires than in Saudi Arabia or the United Arab Emirates,
the consultant estimates.  Sales of luxury goods in Africa, the Middle East and
 Australia  may rise as much as 8 percent a year between 2011 and
2014, according to Bain, faster than any other region other than
Asia.  Yet even purveyors of diamond-encrusted fountain pens and
$3,500 leather jackets realize they need to attract a customer
base that goes beyond the super-rich if they are to succeed in
the region.  New Middle Class  “The real opportunity is more the emergence of the new
middle class,” said Claudia D’Arpizio, a partner at Bain who
leads the consultant’s  luxury-goods  practice.  By 2020, 420,000 South African households will have
disposable income that tops $100,000, Bain estimates. The retail
value of luxury goods sold in the country, where the  World Bank 
says almost a quarter of people live below the poverty line, is
set to swell by 20 percent to $816 million annually by 2015,
Euromonitor International estimates. For at least five years,
companies are likely to limit expansion to a few stores to test
the market and gauge local tastes, D’Arpizio said.  As the African market evolves, Burberry “absolutely” will
look to expand in the region, CEO Angela Ahrendts said in May.
“The teams are constantly reviewing as markets are up and
coming and as partners become available.”  King Bling  In  Morocco , “it’s very much a case of showing that label,
whereas in developed markets, it’s, if anything, the opposite,”
said Fflur Roberts, global head of luxury-goods research at
Euromonitor. In much of Africa, “bling is still king.”
 Consumer spending  is set to surge more than 54 percent between
2011 and 2020 in the country, according to Euromonitor.  Infrastructure remains the biggest obstacle for the
industry, according to Oxford Analytica’s Ford. Nigeria is set
to post the second-strongest gain in total champagne volume,
trailing  France , between 2011 and 2016, Euromonitor estimates.
Yet with four times as many people as Johannesburg, Lagos has
just a handful of shopping malls while the South African city
has scores.  Companies will also have to weigh the risk to their
reputations of expanding in some parts of the continent. Fueled
by oil exports to  China ,  Angola  is “the crucible” of
conspicuous consumption in Africa, according to Ford. Yet, the
wealth is in the hands of a few, and a quarter of the country’s
gross revenue is unaccounted for, Ford estimates.  Angola, he said, “is like a laboratory” for acute income
disparity. “So far, it hasn’t led to any social unrest or
certainly any targeting of stores but it’s definitely” a
possibility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  