-- FHFA Seeks to Limit Buybacks Afflicting BofA to PNC: Mortgages
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-19T14:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/fhfa-seeks-to-limit-buybacks-afflicting-bofa-to-pnc-mortgages.html
The  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
the regulator of  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, plans to help banks
avoid being forced to buy back mortgages as it becomes concerned
that lenders are tightening standards even for the most
creditworthy home buyers.  The FHFA will detail flaws that would trigger a putback
request, Stefanie Johnson, a spokeswoman for FHFA, said in a
statement. The regulator also is standardizing the data Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac collect on each loan so they have more
information when buying mortgages from lenders, she said.  Banks are requiring credit scores on government-backed
loans that are between 100-200 points higher than the minimums
set by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing
Administration, after the government-controlled agencies
demanded lenders repurchase more than $80 billion in flawed
loans over the past three years.  “The lenders perceive the pendulum has swung too far, and
they’re being held accountable for things beyond their
control,” said Brian Chappelle, a partner at the bank
consulting firm Potomac Partners. “Their reaction is going to
be to tighten up.”  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  said June 12 it’s
increasing reserves by $350 million to cover demands, while  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-biggest U.S. lender, said in May it
will buy back $330 million of home loans from Freddie Mac
“because the valuation method used at origination did not meet
the investor’s technical requirements,”  Dan Frahm , a spokesman
for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank said at the time.  Minor Errors  “If lenders perceive that minor errors can result in
significant losses from putback loans, they may respond by being
more conservative in originating those loans,” Federal Reserve
Governor Elizabeth A. Duke told an audience of Realtors in
 Washington  last month,  noting  that an April  Federal Reserve 
survey of loan officers found that a significant number cited
buyback risk as a reason they wouldn’t lend.  Bank of America rose 5 percent to $8.15 at 10:31 a.m. in
 New York  today, the highest level since May 3, and is up more
than 46 percent this year. PNC increased 1.9 percent to $59.14.  Stricter lending standards are restraining the housing
rebound, even as the Federal Reserve pushes down borrowing costs
to record lows. A Commerce Department report today in Washington
showed  housing starts  dropped 4.8 percent to a 708,000 annual
pace from a revised 744,000 rate in the prior month that was the
highest since October 2008. The median forecast of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 722,000 pace.  The average rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage reached
a record low of 3.67 percent in the first week of June,
according to  Freddie Mac .  Demanding Lenders  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee more
than half of U.S. mortgages, are currently demanding lenders
repurchase faulty loans with unpaid principal balances totaling
$15.3 billion, according to their  earnings   statements  for the
first quarter. The two companies were taken over by the U.S.
government in 2008 after investments in risky mortgages brought
them to the brink of bankruptcy. They’ve received about $190
billion in aid since then and the battle with banks over
repurchases is part of their efforts minimize losses.  “I would expect any effort to clarify or reduce putback
liability to have a corresponding effect on the standards for
underwriting” Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans, Duke said.  Banks usually end up paying about half of the unpaid
principal balance when a putback demand is successful, according
to the companies.  Developing Framework  “FHFA is working with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to
develop a framework that will provide lenders a higher degree of
certainty and clarity around repurchase exposure and liability
as well as consistency around repurchase timelines, incentives
and remedies,” the FHFA’s Johnson said in a statement. She said
the agency hasn’t yet determined when that guidance would be
provided.  The FHFA is suing 17 banks on behalf of the GSEs, alleging
that they misrepresented the quality of loans in mortgage-backed
securities Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased for their own
portfolios.  The  Federal Housing Administration , a government mortgage
insurer, also will clarify some of its rules on mortgage
originations in the next 60 days to counter lender concerns
about liability risk, the agency’s acting director, Carol Galante, said in an interview. The FHA will probably take a
series of steps, such as specifying how quickly a borrower who’s
gone through a short sale or foreclosure can qualify for a new
FHA loan, she said.  The FHA doesn’t make repurchase demands because it doesn’t
buy loans, though it may also be having a chilling effect on
lending.  Legal Settlements  The FHA has increased efforts to reach legal settlements
with lenders including  Citigroup Inc.’s (C)  mortgage unit and
Deutsche Bank AG, alleging that the banks fraudulently claimed
that mortgages submitted for FHA insurance met the agency’s
underwriting standards. The agency’s inspector general has been
probing the extent of fraudulent activity and has subpoenaed
records of insured loans from lenders including  MetLife Inc. (MET)   “We are working internally to look at ways that we can
create a clearer path for lenders and perhaps a clearer path for
borrowers to eliminate some of what we see as excessive” credit
tightness, Galante said.  The FHFA and FHA are trying to persuade lenders to increase
lending even as they improve standards. Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac require a minimum credit score of 660 for most home buyers.
The FHA, which was created during the Great Depression to help
borrowers who couldn’t otherwise get loans, requires a minimum
credit score of 500.  FICO Scores  Lenders are asking for much more: The average loan backed
by Fannie Mae in the first quarter had a 763 credit score; at
Freddie Mac the typical borrower had a credit score of 758.  The
average FHA loan has a score near 700.  That means only about 40
percent of potential borrowers can qualify for a GSE loan, while
less than half qualify for an FHA loan.  Shaun Donovan, secretary of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, has said between 10 and 20 percent of
creditworthy borrowers are being shut out of the market.  So far, federal attention is directed at minimizing the
risk that newly originated loans will eventually be the subject
of repurchase requests or fraud lawsuits. They don’t address the
concerns of lenders who are trying to determine just how much
more their balance sheets will be affected by bad loans issued
during the years of loose credit standards.  Dispute Characterization  Officials at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac dispute the
characterization that they have been more aggressive than
necessary in forcing lenders to repurchase loans and also
question whether there’s a link to current credit standards.  “Repurchase complaints aren’t new and unexpected,” said
Chris Mock, vice president of quality control at Freddie Mac.
“The enforcement in the current environment may just be driving
more seller-servicers to be more vocal about it.”  Fannie Mae has spent the last few years ramping up its
capacity to go through files of loans originated between 2005
and 2008, when loan standards were particularly lax. Only about
one in five defaulted mortgages ends up being the subject of a
repurchase request.  “When we discover loans were delivered to us that did not
meet our underwriting and eligibility requirements, we make
demands for lenders to repurchase these loans or compensate us
for losses we’ve sustained on them,”  Andrew Wilson , a spokesman
for Fannie Mae, said in an e-mail. “Fannie Mae pursues
repurchase requests to protect the interests of the company and
to prudently manage the resources we have been provided by the
taxpayers.”  Limits Requests  People familiar with the company’s loan-review process said
Fannie Mae limits buyback requests to mortgages that clearly
violate underwriting standards. Fannie Mae could be about two-
thirds of the way through the backlog of loans originated at the
peak of the  housing bubble , the people said.  The companies have an appeals process; in the first quarter
of this year, Freddie Mac rescinded about $1.3 billion in
repurchase requests after obtaining additional information from
lenders.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac officials also note that they
have been trying to help lenders and the housing market by
waiving liability for repurchase risk on loans they service when
they refinance them through the government’s  Home Affordable
Refinance Program .  There are things the GSEs could be doing to mitigate
lenders’ anxiety about repurchase risk on existing loans, said
Potomac’s Chappelle.  Chappelle, who consults with banks in some buyback
disputes, said it would help if the companies developed a clear
standard saying they won’t request putbacks on minor technical
violations of underwriting standards, such as improperly
completing paperwork. They should also consider implementing a
sunset date beyond which they won’t go back and re-open old loan
files.  “It is the biggest issue that’s affecting the purchase
market today,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  