-- Fight Against Human Trafficking Makes Strides, Clinton Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-06-19T22:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/fight-against-human-trafficking-makes-strides-clinton-says-1-.html
The global fight against human
trafficking made important strides in the past year, with an
increase in the prosecution of perpetrators and identification
of victims of slavery, prostitution, forced labor and military
conscription of children, the Obama administration said today.  The State Department added  Syria  to the list of nations
with the poorest records combating human trafficking, while
Myanmar,  Venezuela ,  Nicaragua ,  Israel  and  Bangladesh  were among
those that improved their efforts, according to the State
Department’s annual Trafficking in Persons report released
today.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said 29 countries of 185
evaluated showed improvements in combating trafficking by
enacting new laws, stepping up investigations, assisting victims
or creating action plans. Myanmar, also known as Burma, repealed
a law used to justify forced labor and established a hotline in
September that has led to the rescue of 57 victims, the State
Department said.  While Clinton said progress is being made, she said there
are an estimated 27 million victims of modern slavery worldwide
whose “stories remind us of what kind of inhumane treatment we
are still capable of as human beings.”  The number of human trafficking victims identified around
the world increased 28 percent to more than 42,000 over the last
year, a sign that governments are seeking out victims and
attempting to prosecute those guilty of enslaving them, Luis
CdeBaca, the U.S. ambassador-at-large to monitor and combat
human trafficking, told reporters in Washington.  Nigeria, Portugal  Several nations declined in the rankings, including
Nigeria, Portugal and Syria, where the government of President
Bashar al-Assad has failed to stop the trafficking of thousands
of women from the Philippines, Indonesia and Somalia who have
been forced into domestic labor and prostitution, according to
the  report .  Syria joins nations including Iran, North Korea, Cuba,
Kuwait,  Saudi Arabia , Yemen and Zimbabwe that have the poorest
records of preventing and prosecuting human trafficking,
according to the report. These worst-offending nations that fail
to comply with minimum standards fell to 17 from 23 last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  