-- Fiscal-Cliff Concerns Hurting Economy as Companies Hold Back
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-19T15:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/fiscal-cliff-concerns-hurting-economy-as-companies-hold-back.html
Companies are starting to delay
hiring and spending out of concern that Congress won’t reach a
compromise in time to avoid automatic tax increases and budget
cuts that would pull billions of dollars of purchasing power out
of the economy.  Faced with a so-called fiscal cliff of more than $600
billion in higher taxes and reductions in defense and other
government programs in 2013, U.S. companies are pulling back,
though the deadline for congressional action is more than six
months away.  The best strategy for companies to follow when confronted
with such uncertainty ahead of Dec. 31 is to “stay lean and
keep your inventories taut,” Sandy Cutler, chief executive
officer of industrial equipment-maker  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  in  Cleveland ,
told a conference May 31.  Economists are predicting this trend will pick up through
the year. “A lot of people see the fiscal cliff as a 2013
story, but you don’t board up the windows when the hurricane is
there, you board up the windows in anticipation,” said  Michael
Hanson , senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New
York .  Hanson sees U.S. growth decelerating to 1.3 percent in the
third quarter and 1 percent in the fourth quarter as the
European debt crisis and worries over the U.S.  budget 
increasingly weigh on the economy. Gross domestic product
advanced at a 1.9 percent annual pace in the first quarter.  Recession Concern  Things would get worse next year if Congress allows all of
the scheduled  spending  reductions and tax increases to take
effect. In that case, a recession is likely, the non-partisan
 Congressional Budget Office  warned in a  report  last month.  The scheduled  budget  cuts haven’t had much of an effect on
financial markets, with investors preoccupied by the
intensifying crisis in  Europe . Sixty-one percent of the 234 fund
managers surveyed by Bank of America last month saw the euro
region’s debt troubles as the biggest concern in the world
economy, more than three times as many who said that about the
U.S. fiscal cliff.  In a sign of investors’ equanimity, U.S. stocks have been
the best-performing major equity market in 2012, with the
Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX)  up by more than 6 percent so far
this year.  Such sentiment could shift if Congress doesn’t act in the
next few months to avoid the year-end budget precipice, said
 Peter Fisher , senior managing director in New York at BlackRock
Inc., the world’s largest money manager.  October Wake-Up  “The markets don’t want to wait until Dec. 31,” Fisher, a
former Federal Reserve and Treasury official, told Bloomberg
Television on May 30. “Congress is going to have to wake up in
October when the markets start pricing in the uncertainty of a
recession in 2013.”  Lawmakers, for their part, said they don’t anticipate much
from Congress until after the November election. The two parties
are just too divided.  Preferred Systems Solutions  is among government contractors
coping with delayed procurements and agency cost-cutting, said
Scott Goss, president and chief executive officer of the Vienna,
Virginia-based engineering and information technology provider.
One intelligence agency asked Goss to lower his charges on an
existing 10-year contract.  Feeling ‘Squeeze’  “I’m feeling more of a  pinch  and squeeze than I ever have
before,” Goss said. “As soon as they start these massive cuts,
they’re going to impact the economy.”  Defense contractors are “most fearful” of across-the-
board reductions that could spur as many as 350,000 job losses
if Congress doesn’t act, said Cord Sterling, vice president of
the Aerospace Industries Association of America.  In the absence of guidance from President  Barack Obama ’s
administration about how the cuts would be carried out,
companies “have to assume those go into place,” he said.  The prospect of cuts already is having a “chilling
effect” on the industry and  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and other
companies may stop hiring and training, Robert Stevens, chief
executive officer of the world’s largest defense company, said
in March on  Capitol Hill . Last month he said that laws requiring
advance notice of firings may prompt grim warnings in September
and October.  Other companies have changed their hiring plans. RTI
International Metals Inc. began building a plant in  Virginia  in
2007, intending to hire more than 200 workers and devote half of
the facility’s capacity to defense programs, said Dawne Hickton,
chief executive officer of the Pittsburgh-based titanium
manufacturer.  Scaling Back  Defense cuts and the uncertainty surrounding the fate of
the new Joint Strike Fighter changed the company’s plans,
causing it to scale back the size of the plant and curtail
hiring.  “We’ve probably got about 50 people” at the facility,
which opened at the end of last year, Hickton said.  Job  openings  in the U.S. decreased in April by the most in
almost four years, according to Labor Department data released
today. The number of open positions fell by 325,000, the biggest
drop since September 2008, to 3.42 million.  The fiscal cliff is a catch-all phrase for a confluence of
budget measures coming to a head at the end of year. Chief among
them is the expiration of tax cuts for income, dividends and
 capital gains  championed by former President  George W. Bush . A
2- percentage-point cut in payroll taxes is also set to end.  Tax Increases  If Congress does nothing, 82.9 percent of U.S. households
would face tax increases averaging $3,701, according to the  Tax
Policy Center , a nonpartisan research group in Washington. More
than 98 percent of households earning more than $50,000 a year
would pay higher taxes.  On the spending side, some $65 billion in automatic cuts
are set to take effect in 2013 as part of last year’s deal to
raise the debt limit. Half of the reductions will come from
defense spending.  Besides the tax cuts, expanded  unemployment  benefits and a
provision that prevents steep cuts in Medicare reimbursement to
doctors are scheduled to expire on Dec. 31.  All told, the steps on their own would reduce the federal
 budget deficit  by $607 billion, or 4 percent of the gross
domestic product, in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1, the CBO
said. The shortfall this fiscal year is projected to be $1.2
trillion.  ‘Significant Threat’  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned lawmakers
on June 7 that such a “severe” tightening of fiscal policy
would “pose a significant threat to the recovery” if it were
allowed to proceed. He also has indicated that the Fed would be
hard-pressed to offset the full effect of such moves on the
economy.  Given the stakes involved, economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News last month said they expect lawmakers to avert an economic
decline by delaying or rescinding many of the spending cuts and
tax increases slated to take effect in 2013.  Even if Congress doesn’t take steps to do that by the end
of 2012, the U.S. won’t immediately lapse into recession,
according to Chad Stone, chief economist at the Center on Budget
and Policy Priorities. The  Washington  group advocates policies
that benefit lower- and middle-income Americans.  ‘Down a Slope’  “The economy will indeed start down a slope that could
ultimately lead to a recession in 2013,” he wrote in a June 4
report. “That’s a far cry from the economy falling off a cliff
and plunging immediately into a recession.”  Still, companies are hunkering down to prepare for the
potential fallout.  Kimmie Candy Co. this month put on hold plans to add five
or six workers to its 23-person payroll because of slowing sales
growth and the political uncertainty in Washington, said Joseph
Dutra, president of the Reno, Nevada-based company.  “For a small business like mine,  cash flow  is the biggest
concern,” said Dutra, whose company makes Choco Rocks and
Sunburst candies. “If you don’t know where the economy is going
and where the government is going on taxes, you don’t want to
take too many risks.”  Other companies are reacting in similar ways, according to
Jim McCaughan, chief executive officer of  Des Moines , Iowa-based
Principal Global Investors LLC, which works with some 30,000
employers on their retirement benefit plans.  Tax Concerns  “What they’ve said to us actually in the last couple of
months is we are slowing hiring because of the fiscal cliff and
that’s really their reasoning more than the European
uncertainty,” he told a conference on June 6. “It’s more that
Washington isn’t doing anything about the tax rises that are
scheduled to come.”  U.S. employers expanded their payrolls by 69,000 workers
last month, the smallest increase in a year and significantly
down from an increase of 275,000 in January.  The impasse over the budget is taking a toll on the economy
and will reduce growth this year by about a half percentage
point, according to CBO Director Doug Elmendorf.  “We think it’s an issue now and will be increasingly an
issue in the second half of the year,” he told reporters last
week.  His agency has been affected, too. Officials are unsure
about whether to replace workers who leave because it’s
impossible to plan on next year’s budget.  “That must play out on a much, much larger scale with more
significant enterprises than ours,” Elmendorf said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider in Washington at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  