-- Florida Sued by Nonprofits Over Voter-Roll Program
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/florida-sued-by-nonprofits-over-voter-roll-program.html
Florida  was sued by two voters and
five groups including a labor union over claims the state’s
efforts to purge non-citizens from the voting rolls
discriminated against Hispanic and black voters.  The suit, filed yesterday in federal court in Miami, is the
first on behalf of individuals who were on a list of potential
noncitizens flagged for removal from the voter rolls. Earlier
this month, Florida was sued by the U.S. Justice Department,
which claimed the state violated the National Voting Rights Act
because the purge was being done within 90 days of a federal
election. The next election in Florida, a primary that includes
elections for federal office, is set for Aug. 14.  The “purging of eligible voters from the official voter
list” gave blacks and Hispanics “less opportunity than other
members of the electorate to participate in the political
process and to elect the representatives of their choice,” the
plaintiffs said in yesterday’s complaint.  Karla Vanessa Arcia, a naturalized citizen from  Nicaragua 
and one of two individual plaintiffs, was placed on the list
without having received notification that she must provide
election officials with verification of her citizenship, said
Lida Rodriguez-Taseff, one of the lawyers who filed the suit.  ‘Result of Fear’  The second individual plaintiff, Melande Antoine, a
naturalized citizen from  Haiti , received notification and was so
concerned that she might not be able to vote that she went to
the election supervisor’s office in Miami to show officials her
documentation, Rodriguez-Taseff said in a conference call with
reporters.  “As a result of fear, she did more than she needed to
do,” Rodriguez-Taseff said. She said the purge, in addition to
discriminating against minorities, disproportionately affects
certain counties, with more than 50 percent of the people on the
list living in  South Florida .  Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican, has defended the
program as a means of fighting voter fraud.  “Every one of the complaints in these lawsuits can be
traced right back to the Department of  Homeland Security ’s
refusal to grant Florida access to their citizenship data,”
said Brian Burgess, a spokesman for Scott.  “We know we have a problem just from the very small test
sample that we did,” Burgess said. “We found confirmed cases
of noncitizens voting in Florida. The governor believes that’s a
problem and we’re trying to fix it.”  Database Access  On June 11, Florida sued the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security over access to a database to verify the citizenship of
residents.  The list of 2,700 names was compiled by checking voter
rolls against citizenship information held by the state
Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles, said Chris
Cate, spokesman for Florida Secretary of State Ken Detzner.  The list includes some inaccuracies, such as people who
became citizens after they got their drivers’ license, while 107
noncitizens have been identified and removed from the rolls,
including 56 who have cast ballots in prior elections, Cate
said.  “We’re not aware of any citizens who have been removed
from the voting rolls,” Cate said.  The groups filing the suit include Miami-Dade County-based
civic group Veyeyo, Immigrant Coalition Inc. and  Florida New
Majority , two nonprofit organizations, National Congress for
Puerto Rican Rights, a Pennsylvania nonprofit group, and labor
union 1199 SEIU United Healthcare Workers East.  Voter Limits  The U.S. warned Florida in a May 31 letter that the state’s
program to identify ineligible voters may violate federal law,
including one aimed at reviewing voter limits in states such as
Florida with a history of racial discrimination. The state
responded by saying the initiative is valid.  Florida Democrats have assailed the purge as an effort to
give presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  an
advantage over President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, in a swing
state four months before the election.  A majority of Florida voters disapprove of Scott’s push to
“eliminate some people” from the voter rolls, according to a
June 8 survey from Raleigh, North Carolina-based Public Policy
Polling.  Scott, meanwhile, has campaigned on the issue. He told a
Tea Party rally on June 10 in Tallahassee, the state capital,
that the Obama administration was “stalling” his efforts to
ensure a “fair and honest” election.  The individual case is Arcia v. Detzner, 1:12-cv-22282,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami). The
U.S. case is U.S. v. State of Florida, 4:12-cv-00285, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Florida (Tallahassee).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  