-- Ford Says Software Fixes Too Late to Help J.D. Power Rank
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-06-20T20:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/ford-says-software-fixes-to-late-to-help-j-d-power-score.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , working to fix
faulty dashboard touch screens, said the software upgrades
offered to customers came too late to improve quality scores in
 J.D. Power  & Associates’s new-car survey.  Ford was one of only five brands in the quality study to
decline, according to survey results distributed today at a
meeting of the Automotive Press Association in  Detroit .  “We’ll be about the same or slightly better,” Bennie Fowler, Ford’s group vice president of global quality, told
reporters in Dearborn,  Michigan , yesterday. “The dramatic
improvement we’re expecting will come in the third quarter and,
hopefully, we’ll see that in” next year’s survey.  Touch screens have lowered Ford’s quality scores. The
automaker’s namesake brand slid to 27th from 23rd a year ago and
fifth in 2010 in  Westlake Village , California-based J.D. Power’s
new-car quality survey. The company’s Lincoln luxury brand was
18th, its second-consecutive ranking below the industry average.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has made technology a
pillar of his turnaround plan. Fuel-efficient, turbocharged
engines and features such as voice-activated phones have
attracted younger customers and pushed up prices. U.S. buyers
paid an average of $31,995 for Ford’s models in the first
quarter, up 26 percent from 2002, according to Edmunds.com.  Ford in March sent a software upgrade to 377,000 customers
with the MyFord Touch and MyLincoln Touch dashboard controls.
J.D. Power measures quality on new cars from November to
February, Fowler said.  ‘Upgradeable Car’  The upgrade included faster touch responses, simpler
graphics, enhanced voice recognition and improved phone
controls, said  Jim Farley , Ford’s global marketing chief. Ford
plans a further enhancement with the next upgrade so that
outside temperature is displayed on the home screen, he said.  “The idea of an upgradeable car is right here, right
now,” Farley said yesterday at a press conference. “We have a
lot more to do as an industry and as Ford, but we’re headed in
the right direction.”  Ford has said its quality performance this year will be
“mixed” and fall short of its goal to improve on last year.
The company has said it’s receiving complaints about a fuel-
saving new transmission used in its Focus and Fiesta small cars.  The automaker’s touch-screen dashboard controls still
receive poor marks from owners, even after improving the
software, said  David Champion , auto-test chief with Consumer
Reports magazine.  “They need to get these innovations right or just dump
’em,” Champion said in a June 12 interview. “They’ve improved
them slightly, but they’re still not right.”  Basic Quality  The software fixes Ford made after J.D. Power completed its
survey should help the automaker next year,  David Sargent , J.D.
Power vice president for global vehicle research, said today in
a speech.  “The new system is a whole lot better than the previous
system,” he said. “So we expect Ford to rebound.”  Other than the high-tech features, Ford’s basic quality
remains good, Champion said. The automaker is seeing a reduction
in the “basic things that break,” Fowler said.  “We’ve seen about a 40 percent improvement in our repair
rate from this time last year,” Fowler said. “So we’re back on
track in that regard.”  Warranty claims on MyFord Touch also have declined as Ford
offered the software upgrades, Fowler said. Some of the problems
have been caused by Ford customers not understanding the
technology, he said.  “We’re working on continuing to explain to our customers
how to use the technologies,” Fowler said. “We’re also going
to continue to refine all of our software to better listen to
what the customer is saying.”  Ford has provided upgrades for the new transmissions, Said Deep, a company spokesman, said in a statement today.  Ford gained 0.9 percent to $10.65 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  