-- Forint Rises to 5-Week High on IMF Aid Progress: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-06-19T14:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/forint-rises-to-5-week-high-as-hungary-moves-closer-to-aid-talks.html
The forint strengthened to the
highest in more than five weeks and government bonds rallied as
 Hungary ’s government moved closer to starting talks on an
international bailout.  Hungary’s currency appreciated 1.4 percent to 287.66 per
euro by 4:33 p.m. in Budapest, the strongest since May 9, and
extending its gain in the past three trading days to 2.9
percent. The government’s benchmark five-year bonds rallied,
cutting yields 21 basis points or 0.21 percentage point, to
8.155 percent. The benchmark BUX stock  index  advanced 0.8
percent to 17,684.22 as  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, jumped 2.7 percent.  The government and Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras
Simor will probably send a joint letter today to the
 International Monetary Fund  to present legal changes demanded by
international lenders,  Mihaly Varga , the country’s chief
negotiator, said in an interview with HirTV late yesterday.
Hungary’s dispute with the IMF and the European Commission over
the independence of the central bank has held up aid talks for
seven months.  “The current rally has been supported by the comments that
the central bank law may be getting into a form that is
acceptable for the European Union and the  European Central
Bank ,” Sandor Jobbagy, a Budapest-based analyst at Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB Bank Zrt. unit, said in an interview today.  Hungary sold 50 billion forint ($219 million) in three-
month Treasury bills, 5 billion forint more than planned, at an
auction today. The average yield was 7.14 percent, down from
7.17 percent at the last sale of that maturity on June 12,
according to results from the Debt Management Agency on
Bloomberg.  Default Swaps  Demand for riskier assets rose as Greece moved toward
forming a government and a Spanish debt sale met targets. The
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index gained 0.9 percent.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps fell 17 basis points to 536 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Following the initially small steps the Hungarian
government now really seems to be about to start the
negotiations about a precautionary  credit line  with its
international backers,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a Frankfurt-based
strategist at Commerzbank AG, wrote in a research report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  