-- Fortress to Be First Bidder at ResCap Mortgage-Unit Sale
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-19T20:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/fortress-to-be-first-bidder-at-rescap-mortgage-unit-sale.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  was
named lead bidder for the mortgage business of bankrupt
Residential Capital LLC, beating out  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
the holding company run by billionaire  Warren Buffett .  Fortress last night increased its original offer of
$2.4 billion by $125 million, topping Berkshire Hathaway’s bid,
ResCap attorney Larren M. Nashelsky told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Martin Glenn today in  Manhattan . Glenn approved New York-based
Fortress’  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  as the so-called
stalking-horse for the auction of ResCap’s most valuable asset,
its loan origination and servicing business.  “You had very robust bidding that raised the stalking-
horse bidding considerably,” Glenn said.  ResCap, based in New York, filed for bankruptcy May 14 with
plans to name Fortress as lead bidder at a court-supervised
auction. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway challenged
Fortress for the right to be the stalking-horse.  Berkshire Hathaway was named stalking-horse for another
ResCap auction, involving a portfolio of loans. That auction
will begin with Berkshire Hathaway’s offer of $1.45 billion and
includes a $10 million breakup fee should the company lose the
auction. Berkshire Hathaway can also bid for the mortgage unit.  October Auctions  The auctions may take place in October, said Marshall Murphy, head of  investor relations  for Nationstar. Under terms
of the bankruptcy financing agreement, the sales must close by
April 15, Kenneth H. Eckstein, an attorney for the main
committee of ResCap’s unsecured creditors, said in court.  ResCap is owned by  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , a Detroit-based
auto lender majority-owned by U.S. taxpayers. Ally supported the
decision by ResCap’s board to file bankruptcy because it may
help Ally distance itself from the mortgage lender’s losses and
help repay a 2008 bailout following the U.S. housing crash and
credit crisis.  Ally offered to be the lead bidder for the loan portfolio
for $1.4 billion to raise as much money as possible for ResCap,
 Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Ally, said in an e-mail today.  Ally ‘Optimistic’  “We continue to be optimistic about the ultimate value
ResCap will achieve in the auction process,” Proia said.  Days before ResCap filed for bankruptcy, Berkshire Hathaway
offered to buy the company from Ally for $1 and an assumption of
all its debts, R. Ted Weschler, a Berkshire Hathaway investment
manager, said yesterday in court.  Berkshire Hathaway also offered to split any legal
liability Ally might face from lawsuits related to flawed
 mortgage loans  ResCap originated, with Ally paying the first
$1 billion, Weschler said.  Berkshire Hathaway has been preparing for a turnaround in
the housing market by buying a brick maker, expanding its real
estate brokerage and wagering on commercial property through a
company jointly owned with  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  The venture,
called Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC, was formed from a loan-
servicing and mortgage business purchased out of bankruptcy in
2009 and once owned by ResCap’s parent.  Stalking Horse Advantages  The stalking-horse bidder in a bankruptcy auction has
advantages over other bidders that include being entitled to a
breakup fee and expense reimbursement should another party win
the auction.  The court can require subsequent offers to exceed the
stalking-horse bid by a specific amount, often high enough to
ward off other potential buyers. The agreements also require the
stalking-horse to buy the property in the absence of other
offers.  ResCap, Berkshire Hathaway and Fortress were in court
yesterday arguing about who should make the first offer for the
mortgage business at the auction of the mortgage business.  Berkshire Hathaway was also competing with Ally to be the
stalking-horse for the loan portfolio.  Before it filed for bankruptcy, ResCap signed a stalking-
horse agreement with Fortress that would have given the company
a $72 million breakup fee in the event it lost the auction and
reimbursed as much as $10 million in expenses.  Counter-Offer  Berkshire Hathaway countered on June 11 with the same
purchase price, a $24 million breakup fee and no expense
reimbursement.  When yesterday’s hearing broke for lunch, Fortress raised
its offer by $50 million. After lunch, Weschler, the Berkshire
Hathaway investment manager, testified that his company would
top the Fortress offer by $10 million and cut the breakup fee to
$12 million.  When Fortress tried to counter, Glenn declined to hear the
offer. Instead he asked the companies to file their final offers
with ResCap last night. This morning, ResCap announced that
Berkshire Hathaway had increased its offer to $100 million more
than its original offer, or about $2.5 billion, and Fortress had
boosted its original bid by $125 million.  Glenn agreed with ResCap’s directors that Fortress should
be the stalking horse. Fortress was granted a $24 million
breakup fee should it lose the auction.  After today’s ruling, ResCap’s 6.5 percent bonds that
mature next year rose 4.4 percent to 24 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  