-- GDF Suez Quits Europe as Belgium Plans to Shut Reactors: Energy
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-06-19T16:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/gdf-suez-quits-europe-as-belgium-plans-to-shut-reactors-energy.html
Europe is driving its largest power
and natural-gas utility off the continent.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA is dealing with government caps on prices in
France and Belgium, losing a 1.8 billion-euro ($2.3 billion)
wind-farm project in France it spent five years preparing, and
an early shutdown of as many as three atomic reactors in
Belgium. Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet says he only
sees expansion coming in faster-growing  Asia  and  Latin America .  The Paris-based company’s shares have dropped 20 percent
this year, a decline that’s wiped more than 8 billion euros from
GDF’s market value and is more than four times the 4.8 percent
slide in Europe’s benchmark  power utilities index . As Mestrallet
shifts investment into emerging economies, Belgium, where
France’s former natural-gas monopoly got about 13 percent of
revenue last year, may present his biggest headache.  “Belgium is probably the country in Europe where
regulation is the most hostile,” Per Lekander, a  UBS AG (UBSN) 
utilities analyst, said by telephone. “GDF Suez has given up on
Belgium and France.”  Belgium’s coalition government led by Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo is preparing to start shutting GDF’s oldest reactors
within three years, lawmakers said. The government has already
doubled a tax on nuclear power to 550 million euros a year.  The frustrations of GDF Suez, whose origins date to a Suez
Canal construction company in the 1850s, are shared by other
regional utilities, especially those in southern European
countries where austerity measures are hitting the economy
hardest and forcing tax rises. Shares in  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ,  Spain ’s
largest utility, are down 28 percent this year, while  Italy ’s
top power producer, Enel SpA, has dropped 27 percent.  GDF rose 1 percent today in Paris, trailing a 1.7 percent
gain in France’s benchmark CAC index.  International Power  Mestrallet has moved toward  emerging markets  by agreeing to
buy the 30 percent of  International Power Plc (IPR)  it didn’t already
own for $11 billion in April. The full acquisition of
International Power adds hydroelectric projects in  Brazil , gas-
fired stations in the  Middle East  and coal plants in Asia.  The company, which got 65 percent of its  revenue  from the
European Union in 2011, may sell assets in Europe after the
International Power deal is complete, Mestrallet said in April.  “We want to accelerate our growth in rapidly growing
emerging countries,” Mestrallet said in an interview at the
time of the deal. “Growth in Europe in energy and power
generation will be limited.”  GDF is the dominant power producer in Belgium, which gets
about half its electricity from seven reactors operated by GDF’s
Electrabel unit, a business valued at 25 billion euros ($31.4
billion) when Suez SA acquired half of Electrabel shares in
2005.  New Policy  Belgium ’s Energy Minister Melchior Wathelet will unveil a
new policy on power production by July 21 that could see the
closure of as many as three reactors in 2015, reducing GDF’s
revenue in the country.  “There is a high probability that at least one of the
reactors will be closed,” said Joseph George, a Belgian
lawmaker and a member of the same party as the energy minister.
Either the 962-megawatt Tihange 1 generator in his constituency
on the Meuse River or the twin 433-megawatt reactors at the Doel
plant near Antwerp will be shut, he said.  “We will abide by Belgium’s forthcoming decision,”
Philippe Pradel, vice-president of nuclear at GDF Suez said at
an energy conference in Paris. “We believe prolonging
operations of the three reactors would be a good economic
solution. Nuclear has a place within GDF Suez.”  GDF is reviewing its entire nuclear strategy because of
uncertainty about Belgian policy and the impact of the Fukushima
disaster in  Japan  last year. The outcome will determine whether
the company pursues nuclear projects in countries including the
U.K., U.S., Brazil,  Saudi Arabia  and  Turkey , Mestrallet said in
April.  Flip-Flop  Belgium’s stance on atomic energy has flip-flopped over the
past decade depending on the parties making up the government.
Di Rupo’s six-party coalition, which took office in December
after an 18-month power struggle, pledged a phasing out of
nuclear power while guaranteeing supply security.  The possibility of a permanent halt of GDF Suez’s reactors
highlights wider difficulties for the utility in  Europe ,
especially in France and Belgium. Decisions by regulators in the
neighboring countries have cost 1 billion euros in earnings 
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, UBS’s 
Lekander said. Total Ebitda was 16.5 billion euros last year.  Price Freeze Challenged  The operator of Europe’s biggest natural-gas network is
waiting for a government decision over state-set prices in
France, after it successfully challenged a price freeze last
year. The company lost out on a tender to build offshore wind
farms off the French coast in April.  The Tihange-1 and Doel-1 and -2 reactors, which came into
service in 1975, provide about 10 percent of Belgium’s overall
forecast power-generating capacity in 2014.  Belgium passed a law in 2003, when the anti-nuclear Greens
were part of the government, that set a timetable for Belgium’s
atomic-energy exit, with the three oldest reactors scheduled to
be halted in 2015 after 40 years of operation and the rest
between 2022 and 2025.  The oldest were given a reprieve in 2009 when a different
government agreed to extend their operating lives by a decade in
exchange for Electrabel paying an annual tax of as much as 245
million euros. That accord never gained legal status because of
political instability. Wathelet is expected to outline how long
the utility can keep running the reactors and whether new gas-
fired plants can be built.  Nuclear Pullout  “The principle of a pullout from nuclear energy as
foreseen by the law is confirmed,” Aart Geens, energy adviser
to Wathelet, said in a telephone interview. “What needs to be
fine-tuned is the timing. We can’t jeopardize the security of
supply of our country.”  Fueling debate in Belgium is a report by the energy
directorate on the country’s production capacity through 2017
which warns there may be a shortfall in capacity for peak 
demand, with the deficit reaching as much as 4,533 megawatts 
three years later.  “The findings are alarming,” the lawmaker George said in
the interview. “The 2003 law was naive. We believed someone
would just come along and invest in new  power plants . We now
know that isn’t going to happen unless there are guarantees of
profitability over decades.”  Electrabel has long come under criticism for controlling a
majority of Belgium’s power market. This grew stronger after its
owner Suez SA merged with Gaz de  France  SA in 2008, handing the
French government a 36 percent stake and a golden share.  Gas Freeze  The before-tax annual earnings from the three oldest
reactors were 150 million euros, Paris-based GDF Suez reported
in February. The utility last month announced a freeze in gas
and power prices and a plan to shut some of its thermal plants
in the country.  “Belgians are preoccupied with the cost of electricity,”
Karine Lalieux, a lawmaker from the prime minister’s French
Socialist Party, said in an interview. “They have the
impression that there is some sort of transfer of Electrabel
profits to France.”  Like George, Lalieux says the government will likely make
plans for shutting at least one reactor in 2015 in a bid to
compromise between sticking to the phase-out plan and ensuring
there aren’t blackouts in the next five years. Some junior
parties in the coalition and pushing for life extensions.  “If the government decides to shut the reactors I don’t
think there will be much celebrating in Paris,” Kristof Calvo,
a Greens lawmaker in parliament, said by telephone. “Extending
their lives would be a gift from Belgium to Electrabel, which
has long been a cash cow for GDF Suez. It’s either Champagne for
Belgian citizens or for Mestrallet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  