-- German Lawmakers Win Bid Over Government Informing on ESM
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-06-19T12:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/german-lawmakers-win-bid-over-government-informing-on-esm.html
Germany ’s top court ruled the
government failed to adequately inform parliament about
negotiations held last year on the European Stability Mechanism,
siding with a group of opposition lawmakers.  The Federal Constitutional Court said in a  ruling  today the
government’s constitutional duty to have parliament participate
in matters of European Union integration also covers the ESM.
The ruling doesn’t affect the implementation of the permanent
bailout fund, which German lawmakers are scheduled to vote on
June 29.  The constitution obliges “the government to inform
lawmakers comprehensively and at the earliest possible time,”
the court in Karlsruhe said. “The information must enable
parliament to early and effectively influence the government’s
decision making.”  This is at least the third ruling from Germany’s top court
limiting Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s discretion to adopt EU
bailout policies without consulting lawmakers. The judges in
February limited the powers of a parliamentary committee set up
to approve emergency actions by the European Financial Stability
Facility, saying more lawmakers need to be involved. In
September it ruled the Bundestag, the lower house of parliament,
must keep authority over budgetary aspects of the EFSF, the
region’s temporary bailout fund.  Competitiveness Pact  Merkel’s government violated lawmakers’ rights by not
providing them an EU commission draft ESM framework in February
2011 or the April 2011 draft of the ESM treaty, the court said
in a  statement  on its website. Merkel also should have disclosed
to them her so-called competitiveness pact proposal before
presenting it at a Feb. 4, 2011 summit, according to the ruling.  “The decision has no impact on the euro-agreements that
have already been taken,” the German Finance Ministry said,
adding the ruling clears up the extent of information rights.  The government argued the constitution’s rules on EU
integration policies don’t cover the ESM, because it was set up
through a treaty between governments, outside EU mechanisms.  The judges rejected that argument, saying that under the
constitution, “EU matters do include such treaties if they add
to, or are particularly close to, the law of the EU.”  The ESM is closely interwoven with European integration,
the court said. The European Commission, as well as the  European
Court  of Justice, will gain special roles within the bailout
mechanism’s framework, which will also alter a basic EU treaty,
the judges said.  “Today is a good day for democracy,” the opposition Green
party’s parliamentary group in the Bundestag, which brought the
case, said on its  website . The court clearly “outlawed illegal
constructions” in European matters.  The ruling must have an impact on negotiation between
Merkel and her opposition on the German legislation regarding
the fiscal pact, scheduled for tomorrow, the group said.
Lawmakers must get a bigger role in its implementation, it said.  Today’s case is: BVerfG, 2 BvR 4/11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 