-- German June Investor Confidence Fell More Than Expected
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-06-19T10:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/german-june-investor-confidence-fell-more-than-expected.html
German investor confidence fell the
most in 14 years in June as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
weighed on the economic outlook.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index of investor and analyst expectations , which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, plunged
to minus 16.9 from 10.8 in May. That’s the steepest decline
since October 1998. Economists forecast a drop to 2.3, according
to the median of 38 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey .  Germany’s economy, which grew 0.5 percent in the first
quarter, is losing momentum as austerity measures across Europe
curb demand for its goods and damp confidence. Exports, factory
orders and industrial production all fell in April and business
sentiment waned in May. The benchmark  DAX share index  has
dropped 12 percent in the last three months.  Today’s report “clearly shows a general sense of panic
amongst investors,” said Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income
strategist at Newedge Strategy in  London . It points to “risks
of a deeper-than-expected recession” in the euro area, she
said.  ZEW’s gauge of sentiment in the 17-nation euro region
slumped to minus 20.1 from minus 2.4. A measure of current
conditions in Germany fell to 33.2 from 44.1.  Stocks Gain  The euro extended losses after the report before rebounding
to trade at $1.2624 at 12:20 p.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.4 percent
today. European stocks gained for a third day as  Greece  moved
toward forming a government and a Spanish debt sale met targets.
The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 0.5 percent to 245.49.  While the European Commission predicts the euro economy
will shrink 0.3 percent this year, the Bundesbank on June 8
revised up its 2012 growth forecast for Germany to 1 percent
from 0.6 percent.  Rising wages and unemployment at a two-decade low are
bolstering domestic spending, helping to insulate Germany from
the debt crisis. German companies are also compensating for
weaker European demand by tapping faster-growing markets
elsewhere.  Today’s report is “a strong warning against a too
optimistic assessment of Germany’s economic perspectives in the
remainder of this year,” said ZEW President  Wolfgang Franz .
“The risks of a pronounced decline in economic activity in
countries with close trade ties to Germany are very clear.”  Spanish Banks  Concerns about  Spain ’s banking sector and elections in
Greece have exacerbated a debt crisis that’s now in its third
year. Spanish 10-year bond yields rose to a euro-era record of
7.29 percent yesterday after data showed bad loans as a
proportion of total bank lending jumped to 8.72 percent, the
highest since 1994.  Spain, the fourth-largest economy in the euro area, is
battling to reduce its debt load amid a recession that has
driven unemployment to more than 24 percent. The country on June
9 sought a European bailout of as much as 100 billion euros
($126 billion) for its banks.  “The re-intensification of the crisis in the euro area,
with Spain now being in the spotlight, is weighing on German
confidence and economic activity,” said  Aline Schuiling , an
economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The decline in the
ZEW reflects that German growth will slow down in the coming
months.”  Central Bank Stimulus  While the  European Central Bank  held its  benchmark   interest
rate  at 1 percent on June 6, President  Mario Draghi  said “a
few” policy makers called for a cut, fueling speculation the
ECB could act as soon as next month. There are no inflation
risks in the euro area, Draghi said on June 15.  U.K. inflation slowed to 2.8 percent in May, the weakest in
2 1/2 years, the  Office for National Statistics  in London said
today. That may ease resistance among  Bank of England  policy
makers to increase monetary stimulus.  Federal Reserve officials begin a two-day meeting today
amid speculation they will take further steps to boost growth in
the world’s biggest economy.  Economists are paring forecasts for China’s growth, with
Credit Suisse Group AG seeing a 7.7 percent expansion this year,
the weakest pace since 1999.  Still, China’s commerce minister said his nation’s economy
is heading for a rebound this month following government
measures to support expansion, adding to signals of confidence
among officials that the slowdown is ebbing.  “I personally think that the June situation is turning for
the better,”  Chen Deming  told reporters yesterday in Los Cabos,
Mexico, without specifying the signs of improvement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in  Frankfurt  at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  