-- German Fibbers, Greek Cheaters Sowed Seeds of Euro Drama
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-06-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/german-fibbers-greek-cheaters-sowed-seeds-of-euro-drama-books.html
We like to think of ourselves as
honest. Yet in reality we all cheat, says behavioral economist
 Dan Ariely  in his new book, “The (Honest) Truth About
Dishonesty.”  No wonder the euro is falling apart.  Ariely is the Duke University professor who wrote
“Predictably Irrational,” a look at how irrational behavior
bends our lives in predictable ways. Though his new book doesn’t
discuss the euro debacle, it does document a human trait that
has warped the single currency from the beginning.  Our behavior reflects two conflicting motives, Ariely
posits: We want to feel good when we look in the mirror, yet we
also hope to benefit from cheating, he says, drawing on
experiments with thousands of people. The upshot: We cheat just
a little, not enough to dent our self-image, he says.  Picture a job seeker padding a resume. Or a Wall Street
banker tweaking valuations on an Excel spreadsheet. We’re all
capable of fudging and telling ourselves stories about why our
actions are nonetheless acceptable.  “Very few people steal to a maximal degree,” Ariely
writes. “But many good people cheat just a little here and
there by rounding up their billable hours, claiming higher
losses on their insurance claims, recommending unnecessary
treatments.”  Euro Cheats  What does this have to do with the euro? Plenty. The
single-currency project has always entailed fiscal sleights of
hand, political self-deception and outright cheating.  European leaders knew, for example, that their countries
lacked elements deemed vital for an optimal currency area, such
as flexible labor markets and similar business cycles. Yet they
pressed on, convinced that all would be well if they could get
their  public debts  and  deficits  under control.  In a pan-European show of Teutonic chest-thumping, they
decreed that each nation using the euro should limit its public
debt to 60 percent of gross domestic product and its  budget
deficit  to 3 percent of GDP. But even as they enshrined these
criteria in the 1992 Maastricht Treaty, European leaders were
busy fudging the requirements.  At the time, only a handful of countries destined to become
founding euro members met the strict criteria, according to data
from the European Union’s statistics office, Eurostat. So treaty
language made the euro available to nations that were merely
 approaching  the 60-percent ceiling “at a satisfactory pace.”  Fiscal Gimmicks  This maneuver allowed Belgium and Italy -- which still had
debt-to-GDP ratios exceeding 110 percent -- to participate when
the euro was born on Jan. 1, 1999.  By then, even  Germany  had breached the 60 percent mark,
according to Eurostat data. Many countries, unsurprisingly,
concluded that it was sufficient to hit the 3-percent deficit
target.  Even that proved challenging, prompting another round of
self-deception.  Italy , for one, deployed a refundable
“Eurotax” to squeeze below the deficit ceiling in 1997.  The Italians were hardly alone: Tax amnesties,
privatizations and windfalls from selling mobile-phone licenses
helped countries meet the mark, according to “ Fiscal Gimmickry
in Europe ,” a paper from the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  German Hospitals  Germany, which views itself as a paragon of fiscal
restraint, went so far as to reclassify public hospitals as
quasi corporations, the paper says. The Europeans were kidding
themselves from the start.  Amid the dot-com bust and downturn in the early 2000s,
Germany and  France  breached the deficit limit, yet escaped
serious censure. As Germany slid toward a balance-sheet
recession, the  European Central Bank  pushed its benchmark
 interest rate  down to  2 percent , aiding German exports and
feeding housing bubbles on the EU’s periphery.  The most egregious cheater was unmasked only later, of
course. In 2004, the Greek government of Kostas Karamanlis
disclosed that its socialist predecessor had sneaked into the
euro with phony data. And who could forget the  currency swap 
that  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  arranged for the Greeks? We all
know how that ended.  Ariely has filled his book with amusing examples of how the
cheating psychology plays out in everyday life. Office workers
who wouldn’t dream of taking $3.50 from petty cash will help
themselves to paper for their home printer.  Conflicted Dentists  Golfers who hesitate to pick up and move a ball from a bad
lie feel less compunction about nudging it with a club. Even
your family dentist may be tempted to recommend a treatment that
happens to require that fancy equipment he just bought.  Ariely and his colleagues explored these behaviors in
experiments that offered students a chance to earn cash by
filling out a mathematical worksheet. The more problems they
solved, the more money they got. Though the experimenters did
encounter some aggressive cheaters, it was the little chiselers
who cost the most.  “Because there were so many of them, we lost thousands and
thousands of dollars to them -- much, much more than we lost to
the aggressive cheaters,” he writes.  Seen from that perspective,  Greece  may be the least of
 Europe ’s worries.  “The (Honest) Truth About Dishonesty: How We Lie to
Everyone -- Especially Ourselves” is published by  Harper  in the
U.S. and HarperCollins in the U.K. (285 pages, $26.99, 16.99
pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 