-- Gillard Union Tilt Draws Nasser Ire as Workers Unimpressed: Jobs
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-06-19T22:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/gillard-union-tilt-draws-nasser-ire-as-workers-unimpressed-jobs.html
Australia  is the world’s happiest
nation, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development. Try telling that to janitor Marie Angrilli, or
BHP Billiton Ltd. Chairman Jacques Nasser.  Nasser told 320 Sydney business executives May 16 that
Australian unions have excessive clout and that an “industrial
relations system that pits labor against capital can never lead
in the long term to an efficient and productive workplace.” He
reflected nationwide corporate antipathy to Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s efforts to strengthen unions’ wage-negotiating powers.  Angrilli, who mops floors and cleans toilets at a private
 Melbourne  girls’ college, says she and workers like her still
are deprived, whatever Nasser says. “He may think his  BHP (BHP) 
miners and their unions have too much power, but people in my
industry are underpaid and we need to band together for better
rights,” she said.  Gillard has reaped little political reward for siding with
unions, trailing in polls even as job growth and muted inflation
undermine executives’ gripes at her record. Squeezed between
mining bosses decrying her as anti-business and disenchanted
 workers  feeling little windfall from the nation’s biggest
resources boom since the 1850s, Gillard has failed to craft a
message that resonates with voters. Union-member Angrilli
foresees a loss in elections due by late 2013.  Labor’s Gains  “Gillard’s problem with industrial relations reflects the
overall story of her whole government: She’s made some
important, effective changes but she just can’t sell them,”
said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts political-marketing research at
the  Australian National University  in Canberra. “The opposition
is saying a win in the next election will create a mandate to
wind back worker and union power, and that’s looking very
likely.”  Gillard’s  Labor party  trails the opposition by 22
percentage points in the most recent nationwide poll, which was
taken May 31-June 2 by Nielsen and had a margin of error of 2.6
percent. Her agenda has prompted criticism by business leaders
ranging from Nasser to Rio Tinto Group Chief Executive Officer
Tom Albanese to the Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry,
the nation’s biggest corporate lobbying group.  In a bid to appeal to her Labor party’s working-class base,
then-Employment Minister Gillard introduced the Fair Work Act in
2009. It overturned former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s
unpopular “Workchoices” policy, blamed by his Liberal party
for its 2007 election defeat. Howard axed some worker safeguards
and made it easier for employers to fire people.  Wage Negotiations  Gillard’s laws gave unions more power in negotiating wage
deals and widened the issues they could seek to address,
including the use of contract  labor . In an olive branch to
businesses, unions are only allowed to legally strike when
campaigning for a new contract after a previous one expires and
after a ballot of members.  Corporations are awaiting an independent review of the
measures due to be released this month to ramp up pressure on
Gillard to pare  workers’ powers . In his speech, Nasser called it
“an opportunity to move the pendulum back to a more appropriate
balance” in industrial relations.  The complaints about excessive union power aren’t reflected
in economic data. Annual  wage growth  has averaged 3.6 percent
since Gillard became the first woman to hold the nation’s
highest elected office in June 2010, less than the 3.7 percent
average of the prior decade, government figures show.  Less Misery  Inflationary pressures have eased even as unemployment has
dropped, leaving the so-called misery index -- the sum of the
jobless and inflation rates -- at 6.8 percent last quarter. That
was the lowest since 2007, when it reached levels unseen since
1970, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our labor market system brings fairness together with
flexibility,” Gillard said while she attended the Group of 20
summit in  Mexico  this week. “We will always fight as a Labor
party and a Labor government to prevent  workers  being ripped
off,” she said.  Gillard, 50, said her government’s industrial relations
system ensures “that in workplaces people can bargain above a
safety net so that working with their employer, they can make
their workplace more productive and they can have more
rewards.”  Australia led  Norway  and the U.S. in the Paris-based OECD’s
Better Life Index released last month, making it the top-
performing economy based on criteria including income, jobs,
housing and health.  Striking Miners  The mood is less cheerful in labor-management relations.
BHP has been trying to negotiate with more than 3,000 workers,
who have staged sporadic strikes since February over
accommodation and job-security provisions at coal mines in
Queensland state it co-owns with Japan’s  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)   The company’s latest offer of increasing wages by 5 percent
over three years and a guaranteed annual bonus of A$15,000
($15,284) was rejected with only 17 percent of workers
supporting the plan, BHP said May 18.  Another dispute saw carrier  Qantas Airways (QAN)  Ltd. grounding
its main fleet worldwide in October for about 48 hours to force
an end to six months of sporadic strikes. Industrial regulator
Fair Work Australia banned the strikes and the lockout.  Such labor strife has left an opening for  Tony Abbott , head
of the opposition Liberal-National coalition. He says Gillard’s
administration is trying to create a “class war” in Australia.  ‘Statesman’ Nasser  “We had Jacques Nasser, who is one of the great statesmen
of Australian industry, point out that this government is
getting it wrong,” Abbott, 54, told reporters in Melbourne on
May 17. “What we’re looking at is careful, cautious,
responsible change that will bring the workplace relations
pendulum back to the center.”  The opposition chief has vowed to repeal new taxes on
mining profits and  carbon emissions , and change industrial
relations laws if elected. Such pledges leave Abbott vulnerable
to comparisons with Howard, said Zareh Ghazarian, a political
analyst at  Monash University  in Melbourne.  “Abbott has to be very careful because he can’t be seen to
be returning to Workchoices,” Ghazarian said.  If Gillard is ousted, the Liberal party “will go back to
looking after its traditional base of multinationals to the
detriment of the workers,” said  Stephen Smyth , president of the
Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union’s mining and
energy division in Queensland.  A trend of deteriorating productivity in Australia blamed
by Abbott and business chiefs on the Fair Work Act has been
occurring for at least a decade, according to Saul Eslake,
Melbourne-based chief Australia economist for Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch division.  Productivity Challenge  “Productivity growth in Australia has declined more or
less continually since 2000 under three different industrial
relations regimes,” Eslake said. “It would be entirely
inaccurate to say the decline in productivity growth is the
result of  Julia Gillard ’s changes.”  Improving skills and infrastructure, and removing barriers
to competition and red tape, are the most important changes
needed to be addressed to boost productivity, he said.  Gillard, a former union lawyer, has stoked resource
executives’ opposition by introducing taxes on carbon emitters
and coal and iron-ore profits, scheduled to start July 1. Her
annual budget in May scrapped a planned cut in company taxes to
fund payments to low- and middle-income earners who have
traditionally formed the base of her party’s support.  Gillard’s Base  Gillard is struggling to connect with voters in Labor’s
heartland states of New South  Wales  and Victoria, where the
party won more than half its seats in the last election, as
their manufacturing,  retail  and tourism industries struggle
under the weight of a currency that’s jumped about 17 percent
since she took office.  In New South Wales, 60 percent of voters surveyed by
Newspoll were dissatisfied with Gillard’s performance by the end
of March, followed by 56 percent in Victoria state, home of
Gillard’s constituency, according to  data  collated from six
polls earlier this year with a margin of error of plus or minus
2.5 percentage points.  For Angrilli, the school cleaner who earns about A$19.50 an
hour and starts her shift at 3:30 a.m., Gillard has done just
enough to earn her vote again.  “Not many people I speak to agree and everything you hear
about her is negative,” said Angrilli, a member of the United
Voice union. “No one seems to want to listen to the good things
she says -- she just can’t get her message across.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  