-- Rinehart Seeks Three Fairfax Media Board Seats, Herald Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-06-19T07:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/gina-rinehart-seeks-three-fairfax-media-board-seats-herald-says.html
Gina Rinehart ,  Asia ’s richest woman,
is seeking three seats on the board of Australia’s second-
largest newspaper publisher,  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) , and the ability
to fire editors, the Sydney Morning Herald reported.  Rinehart yesterday raised her stake in Fairfax, the
publisher of the Herald,  Melbourne ’s Age and the Australian
Financial Review, to 19 percent, as the company announced it’s
cutting 22 percent of its workforce in a bid to halt sliding
revenue and a stock price slump.  Gaining board seats and influencing editorial policies at
Fairfax may help the 58-year-old mining magnate widen her
political clout as she criticizes taxes on mining profits and
 carbon emissions  and calls for less government involvement in
the economy.  “She discovered the power of the media during her
successful campaign against the mining tax,” David Rowe, a
professor at the University of Western Sydney’s Institute of
Culture and Society, said in a phone interview today.
“Newspapers may be declining in sales but they still exert a
great deal of influence.”  Shares Decline  Fairfax shares fell 8.5 percent to 59.5 Australian cents in
Sydney trading today, more than erasing yesterday’s gain of 7.4
percent. The shares have declined 17 percent this year.  Brad Hatch, a spokesman at Fairfax, declined to comment on
the Herald report. Mark Bickerton, a spokesman at Rinehart’s
Hancock Prospecting Pty, didn’t respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Rinehart’s fortune has soared as demand for coal and  iron
ore  drive up the value of the assets she inherited from her
father Lang Hancock almost 20 years ago. Rinehart, with an $18.7
billion fortune according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index ,
also controls a 10 percent stake in  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. (TEN) ,
the nation’s third-ranked commercial broadcaster.  Rinehart has told Fairfax’s board that major shareholders
shouldn’t be restricted from involvement in editorial matters,
including the hiring and firing of editors, the Herald reported,
without saying where it obtained the information. Such demands
are in conflict with board protocol that directors not interfere
with the editorial direction of the media group and its charter
of independence, according to the report.  “What this will do is destroy the credibility of the
Fairfax mastheads,” Communications Minister Stephen Conroy told
reporters yesterday. “And if you were to start turning it into
just a pro-mining industry gazette, well, I don’t think you
would say the rest of the shareholders in Fairfax would be too
excited.”  Rinehart’s media investments come as  Australia  considers an
easing of ownership laws, including relaxing restrictions on the
number of media outlets a company can own.  Convergence Review  The recommendations, released in December by the
government-appointed Convergence Review, would scrap rules
limiting the number of households a broadcaster can reach and
may enable companies including  News Corp . and Fairfax to expand
in broadcast markets.  Rinehart took a public stand against a proposed increase in
mining taxes when she climbed on the back of a pickup truck
during a June 2010 rally in Perth. The billionaire urged about
2,000 representatives from the resources industry to shout “Ax
the tax” until her voice cracked.  Two weeks later,  Kevin Rudd  was toppled as leader by  Julia Gillard  amid a slump in opinion polls. The new prime minister
identified the mining tax as one of three issues through which
the government had “lost its way.”  Instead of the broad-based 40 percent tax on resource
profits Rudd proposed, Gillard negotiated with miners for a 30
percent tax on earnings from  iron ore  and coal that comes into
force on July 1.  “We’re not talking about billionaires known for their
philanthropy,” said Rowe, who has published essays,
commentaries and books about the media. “People are rightly
concerned about this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  