-- GM Seen Fueling Pension Deals as Employers Face Shortfall
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-06-19T04:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/gm-seen-fueling-pension-deals-as-employers-face-greece-sized-gap.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s deal to cut
pension obligations by $26 billion and shift plans to  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU)  is poised to fuel more transfers as U.S. firms
face a retirement-funding shortfall the size of  Greece ’s debt.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and Prudential are among insurers that expect
the GM deal to encourage more corporations to offload plans.
Pension liabilities exceed assets by more than $435 billion,
according to a Bloomberg review of data disclosed by firms in
the Russell 1000 Index of large U.S. companies. Greece, facing
demands for austerity measures in exchange for rescue funds, had
total debt of about $450 billion at the end of 2011.  Employers who endured two stock-market  crashes  in a decade
and 10-year  Treasury yields  near a record low may be tempted to
follow GM’s lead by paying insurers to take the risk that market
returns are inadequate or that beneficiaries live longer than
expected. Transferring the obligations can reduce swings in
earnings tied to securities and relieve companies of the need to
manage large pools of money.  There “may be a greater willingness to pull the trigger
and execute a transaction,” said Robin Lenna, executive vice
president of MetLife’s corporate benefit funding group. “They
have a model. Somebody already did it in a big way.”  GM, the largest automaker, said most of the 118,000
retirees and  surviving beneficiaries  affected by the shift will
get Prudential annuities, with about 42,000 having the option of
lump-sum payments. GM pensions were underfunded by $25.4
billion, the largest gap among the biggest U.S. companies, as of
Dec. 31. The Detroit-based firm had global pension obligations
of about $134 billion.  Era Beginning  GM will contribute $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion in cash to
the salaried  pension plan  to help fund it and purchase the
annuities from  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential, GM Chief
Financial Officer Dan Ammann said. The transaction will be
completed by the end of this year, the company said.  “The pension world will forever remember this transaction
as the beginning of the era of pension de-risking,” said Dylan Tyson, head of pension risk transfer at Prudential, the No. 2
U.S. life insurer. “This is a market whose time has come.”  Growth had stalled before the GM deal, with carriers having
$48.2 billion of group annuity assets on their books as of Dec.
31, compared with $48.8 billion three years earlier, according
to a survey of eight insurers by trade group Limra.  The federal Pension Protection Act, which was passed in
2006, gave employers seven years to fully fund their  retirement
plans  and required them to use an interest rate based on a
basket of corporate bonds to compute liabilities. As bond yields
decline, corporate pensions must set aside more money to cover
future obligations.  Ohio’s Timken  The employers most likely to transfer obligations have high
cash levels and “meaningful” underfunded retirement
obligations, said  Stephen Brown , an analyst at  Fitch Ratings .  Timken Co. (TKR)  is among firms that may follow GM’s path. The
maker of bearings has spoken with Prudential and other insurers
about annuitizing its pensions, which have $2.6 billion in
assets and $3.1 billion in liabilities, said Glenn Eisenberg,
the Canton, Ohio-based company’s executive vice president of
finance and administration.  Timken this year began offering retiring employees the
option of receiving benefits in a lump sum, Eisenberg said.
Contributions to the company’s pension plans consumed $521
million since 2010 and are expected to cost $165 million this
year, according to a company filing. Every 25 basis point
reduction in the discount rate the company uses causes its
liability to increase about $70 million, Eisenberg said.  ‘More Cash’  “We had put cash into the plans and gotten them fully
funded, only to see  interest rates  continue to drop over the
last decade while asset returns were volatile,” Eisenberg said.
“That caused these big unfunded positions and we had to throw
more cash into it.”  To pay for the transaction, Timken must fully fund the
plans and contribute about an additional 15 percent of their
assets as a premium to compensate the insurance company it
eventually chooses, he said.  Municipalities may not be able to afford the upfront cash
requirements of the transactions, said Rick Jones, leader of the
retirement consulting national practices at  Aon Plc (AON) 's Aon Hewitt
unit.  The cost may discourage other employers from striking deals
with insurers, said John Ehrhardt, a principal at consulting
firm Milliman Inc.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the No. 2 U.S. automaker, is
offering lump-sum payments to about 98,000 U.S. salaried
retirees and former employees.  Ford rejected offloading its obligations to a separate
company in favor of investing in global expansion and new models
and paying dividends, CFO Bob Shanks said June 4.  Rocket Science  “We’ve looked at all sorts of options,” Shanks said in
an interview. “It’s not like it’s rocket science. There’s only
so many things you can do to de-risk a pension plan.”  The Russell 1000 companies reviewed by Bloomberg are
projecting an average return on pension assets of 7.3 percent.
That’s down from 7.5 percent a year ago, and still above
annualized returns over the past 10 years of 6.44 percent
reported by corporate funds with assets greater than $1 billion,
according to Wilshire Trust Universe Comparison Service.  “There’s really been almost a decade and a half now of an
awful lot of ups and downs and, frankly, more downs than ups in
terms of pension plan financing,” said Aon’s Jones. “The
volatility has taken its toll on many CFOs.”  One Shot  Scott Robinson, a senior vice president at Moody’s
Investors Service, said the deal is a “ credit negative ” for
Prudential. “If you’re wrong on the pricing in a deal of this
size, you don’t get a second shot,” he said in an interview.  The GM deal is “an unambiguous positive” for Prudential
because the risk of longer-than-expected lifespans on the
pension book would be cushioned by a decrease in death benefit
payments from traditional  life insurance ,  Eric Berg , an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in a June 4 research note.  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, is also considering
doing more transfer deals, Lenna said. The New York-based
insurer had a return on equity of 10 percent to 15 percent for
the transactions last year and is being “stringent about new
capital allocation,” William Wheeler, president of the
Americas, said at a May 23 presentation.  “We see almost every single deal on the market,” Lenna
said. “We’re not going to wildly bid on transactions.”  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the bailed-out insurer,
projects as much as $100 billion in pension closeouts over the
next five years, Jay Wintrob, chief executive officer of the
company’s life insurance unit, said at a June 13 presentation.
The New York-based company is “exploring” taking part in the
transactions, Wintrob said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  