-- MGPA Said to Pay 12 Billion Yen for Eight Buildings in Japan
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2012-06-19T06:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/mgpa-said-to-pay-12-billion-yen-for-eight-buildings-in-japan.html
MGPA , a private-equity real estate
investment firm, will pay 12 billion yen ($152 million) for
eight office buildings in Japan, according to two people
familiar with the transaction.  Seven of the properties are in  Tokyo , according to a
statement by MGPA today, which didn’t disclose the price. The
eighth building is in Yokkaichi city in Tokai region, an area
between Tokyo and  Osaka , said the people, who asked not to be
named because the information is private.  The buildings have a gross floor area of about 350,000
square feet and were acquired through defaulted commercial
mortgage backed securities, or bonds tied to real estate loans,
according to a statement today from MGPA, which manages $11
billion in assets. Office property prices in Tokyo, which have
declined about 40 percent from their peak in 2007, have been
little changed this year, signaling the market is stabilizing,
according to CBRE Group Inc.  “The supply of new space in the Tokyo office market over
the next several years will be 30 percent below the long-term
average,” Rio Minami, MGPA’s managing director of capital
transactions in  Japan , said in the statement, adding that
“demand for office space could well surprise on the upside.”  Danielle Ver Bruggen, a spokeswoman for MGPA, couldn’t be
reached in her office for comment.  Defaulted Debt  About 600 billion yen to 700 billion yen of defaulted debt
is set to be redeemed in the next two years, according to
Moody’s Investors Service’s estimate.  The first default in Japan on loans included in CMBS rated
by  Standard & Poor’s  took place in the second quarter of 2008
and increased to 137 cases with loans totaling 950 billion yen
as of March, according to a May 14 report by the rating company.
Lenders have recovered about 501 billion yen after the
underlying properties were sold, the report showed.  The acquisition is made through MGPA Asia Fund III, which
also has properties in Singapore and  China , according to today’s
statement. MGPA is part-owned by  Macquarie Group Ltd. ,
 Australia ’s largest investment bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  