-- Greece Set for Bailout Reward as EU Sees Tweaked Aid Terms
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-06-19T17:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/greece-on-track-for-pro-bailout-reward-as-eu-to-tweak-aid-terms.html
Greek voters are likely to get a
reward for backing pro-euro parties, with European creditors set
to ease bailout terms on the debt-swamped country mired in the
fifth year of recession.  A first step will be when  Greece ’s still to-be-formed
government requests modifications to the 240 billion-euro ($304
billion) rescue programs, leading to a revision of Greece’s
economic-performance targets sometime before September, a
European official told reporters in Brussels today.  Europe  floated the relief as the victor in the June 17
Greek election, Antonis Samaras of the  New Democracy  party,
accelerated preparations for a coalition government including
his historic Socialist rivals with a mandate to loosen the
bailout constraints while keeping Greece in the euro.  “Agreement on a policy roadmap is the definitive point to
form a government,” Fotis Kouvelis of the Democratic Left, the
third part of the planned coalition, said in  Athens  today. “The
process is speeding up. It is possible that in the next few
hours, or within the day, a government can be decided.”  European officials shrouded possible tweaks to the program
in ambiguous terms, fearful of alienating the public in creditor
countries such as  Germany  and the Netherlands where resistance
is high to letting Greece -- the origin of the crisis that has
brought the 17-nation euro to the brink of breakup -- off
lightly.  Merkel’s Line  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  sought to damp speculation
that the terms of Greece’s bailout might be relaxed.  “We should very tightly keep to the rules and it’s obvious
that the reforms that were agreed in the past were the right
thing and have to be implemented,” Merkel told reporters today
at a summit of world leaders in  Mexico .  A number of finance ministers oppose giving Greece more
time to meet targets for  deficit reduction , structural reforms
or the selloff of state assets, the euro-area official said at
the Brussels briefing on condition of anonymity. Still, Greece’s
deteriorating economy makes it delusional to hew to the current
conditions, the official added.  Greece’s Democratic Left set seven conditions for joining
the government, including extending the deficit-cutting timeline
to 2017 from 2014 and reversing structural overhauls such as
cuts to the minimum wage and pensions. The Pasok Socialist party
broadly agreed with those demands.  “Forming a government is tied to the need to form a
national negotiating team to ensure the unfavorable terms of the
bailout are revised, the terms that were imposed on us, against
our will at many points in the first phase of negotiations,”
said  Evangelos Venizelos  of Pasok, who as finance minister from
June 2011 to March 2012 negotiated the second aid package.  Venizelos told reporters today he would agree to join a
coalition with New Democracy and Democratic Left and that the
government should be formed no later than midday tomorrow..  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  