-- Greece Out in Legg Mason Stress Test Drawing Lesson From Lehman
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-06-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/greece-out-in-legg-mason-stress-test-drawing-lesson-from-lehman.html
It’s 9 a.m. on a Friday in June, and
for a drill at Legg Mason Inc.’s Baltimore headquarters, Greece
has quit the euro.  Gathered around a conference room table, with team members
from offices including  London  and New York joining by video, 15
employees are given eight hours before markets open in  Asia  to
assess everything from the firm’s investments and whether they
can execute trades, to how workers in European offices will be
paid.  Almost four years after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. froze financial markets, asset managers from Legg
Mason to  State Street Corp. (STT)  and Vanguard Group Inc. are drawing
from lessons learned during that crisis to prepare for a worst-
case scenario in  Europe . Firms are running drills, forming
special teams and testing information technology systems to
avoid being blindsided by a disintegration of the euro, however
remote the prospect.  “We want to have as much information as possible because
we don’t know what’s going to happen, but want to have all the
tools to deal with whatever may happen,” said Joe Carrier,
director of enterprise risk at Legg Mason. “Post-Lehman we
realized that things that you would never imagine would catch
you, did catch you.”  Pro-bailout parties in Greece obtained enough votes in
national elections Sunday to form a government, easing concern
the country will leave the euro currency union.  Greece ,
dependent since 2010 on emergency loans from the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund , has to meet the creditors’
conditions to keep the aid flowing. Central banks have
intensified warnings that Europe’s failure to tame its debt
crisis threatens to roil the world’s financial markets.  ‘Lot of Lessons’  State Street, which oversees $16.9 trillion in custody
assets and manages $1.99 trillion for clients in its investment-
management unit, has set up two committees in the past year to
prepare for fallout from a potential worsening of the crisis in
Europe, said John L. Klinck, head of strategic planning and
institutional client relationships. The first focuses on risk
management, examining everything from macro-economic conditions
to the company-by-company impact of various crisis scenarios.  “There were a lot of lessons learned from 2008, especially
in understanding counterparty risk, where assets are pledged,
the value of collateral,” said Klinck, whose company is based
in  Boston .  Y2K Event  The second group at State Street looks at operational
issues, especially those related to  information technology . If
one or more countries leave the euro, securities may have to be
redenominated since national currencies could be readopted.
Klinck compared it to preparing for the so-called Y2K event when
computer systems needed reprogramming to handle the date change
from 1999 to 2000.  At Vanguard, which is the world’s largest mutual-fund
provider and manages about $1.8 trillion, a special team is also
preparing for the redenomination of securities as well as for
potential restrictions on the cross-border movement of capital
if a country leaves the euro, according to John Hollyer, head of
risk management for the company. The firm’s legal teams are
reviewing contracts for references to currencies and to
understand the implications.  Nancy Prior, president of the money-market group at Boston-
based  Fidelity Investments , said the firm has convened meetings
internally and with larger clients to discuss operational issues
and investment risks related to Europe. Fidelity, which manages
about $1.6 trillion, is also preparing to post material on its
website for individual clients in the event of a worsening
crisis.  Debt Ceiling  “During the debt ceiling showdown last summer we were very
proactive in putting information on our website and we’d plan to
do that again,” Prior said.  Fidelity and other top money-fund managers have reduced or
eliminated holdings of securities from issuers perceived as most
at risk in the crisis. The 10 biggest prime U.S. money-market
funds cut their holdings of debt issued by euro-area banks by
$8.3 billion in May. Fidelity reduced holdings of European bank
securities in the past two months and cut the weighted average
maturity of those holdings to two days, according to Prior.  Firms whose investments are less liquid have sought to
shore up their holdings in the region.  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the
world’s second-largest private-equity firm, has refinanced its
portfolio companies in the region over the past eight months,
Glenn Youngkin, the firm’s chief operating officer, said this
month.  ‘Soap Opera’  “We’ve undertaken refinancings over the course of the last
six to eight months, some of which have been herculean in order
to get done, in order to make sure that the portfolio can
withstand an extended downturn,” Youngkin said at the Morgan
Stanley Financials Conference in New York June 12. “Every day
is a brand new soap opera.”  Carlyle has several funds focused on Europe, including real
estate, growth capital, buyout and distressed, that can take
advantage of opportunities when they present themselves,
Youngkin added.  During the 2007-2009 financial crisis, money managers saw
assets decline and in some cases absorbed losses for investors
or relied on emergency government programs to avoid losses.
Several money-market fund providers, including Legg Mason and
Chicago-based Northern Trust Corp., bailed out investors in 2007
and 2008 after their funds suffered losses in structured
investment vehicles, or SIVs. A number of SIVs, created to make
money by issuing short-term securities at low  interest rates  and
buying longer-term debt that paid higher rates, defaulted
because of investments in mortgage-backed securities.  Reserve Primary  Money funds ran into more trouble after the collapse of the
$62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund in September 2008, which held
debt issued by Lehman. The fund’s sudden closure triggered a
panic among investors who withdrew $200 billion, or 10 percent
of prime fund assets, in two days, helping to freeze global
credit markets.  Prime money funds are eligible to purchase debt and other
securities issued by corporations and banks, as opposed to funds
that invest exclusively in U.S. government-backed debt.  The run abated after the U.S. Treasury Department
guaranteed money-fund assets against default and the  Federal
Reserve  began buying assets from money funds at face value to
help funds meet redemptions. Among the 10 largest providers,
only Vanguard, based in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania , and  Legg
Mason (LM)  didn’t tap the Fed’s emergency program.  Compensating Investors  Other managers compensated investors for losses suffered
during the crisis after legal action. State Street paid out more
than $800 million to clients who claimed the firm misled them
about investments in some fixed-income funds. It paid more than
$300 million to regulators over allegations it helped some
investors get out of a bond fund saddled with risky mortgages,
leaving others to shoulder the losses. State Street didn’t admit
to or deny allegations made by regulators.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager, declined
to comment on how it prepares for a potential worsening of the
euro crisis, said Lauren Trengrove, a spokeswoman for the New
York-based company. BlackRock has advised governments including
those in Ireland and Greece since the start of the sovereign
debt crisis.  Pacific Investment Management Co., the  Newport Beach ,
California-based manager of the world’s largest mutual fund, the
$261 billion Pimco Total Return Fund, has been conducting stress
tests for a variety of outcomes and “tail risks,” said  Andrew Balls , London-based head of European  portfolio management  at
Pimco.  ‘First Responder’  “Even if they don’t happen you want to prepare for the
worst,” Balls said. “You don’t want to be the last responder,
you want to be the first responder.”  Legg Mason started its preparations for a euro crisis in
2011, by evaluating how much of its portfolio would be at risk
in Europe and forming the European contingency task force, which
meets weekly for an hour and a half, Carrier said. The firm also
reviewed who its clients were and where their banks were located
and then looked internally at operations to assess its
relationships with service providers and counterparties, said
Carrier, the director of enterprise risk.  “These lessons are cumulative knowledge in the business,”
Carrier said. “Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but they
will be applied.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  
 aleondis@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  