-- Icahn Nominates Four for Forest Board in Second Fight
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-06-19T20:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/icahn-nominates-four-for-forest-board-in-second-fight.html
Investor  Carl Icahn  nominated four
directors to the board of  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  in a second
proxy fight against the drugmaker.  Icahn nominated Eric Ende, president of Ende BioMedical
Consulting Group and a former biotechnology analyst at Merrill
Lynch; Andrew Fromkin, the former chief executive officer of
Clinical Data Inc., acquired last year by Forest; Pierre Legault, president and CEO of Stone Management LLC and a former
chief financial officer for OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc.; and Daniel Ninivaggi, president of  Icahn Enterprises , according to
regulatory filing today.  Icahn, who is New York-based Forest’s second-largest
shareholder with 9.9 percent of the stock, failed in August to
get his picks elected to the 10-member board. He argued that the
company’s directors had been in place too long and let the stock
falter more than 50 percent from a 2004 high of $77.59.  The company “has engaged in conduct to enrich and entrench
management to the detriment of the stockholders,” Icahn said in
a June 18 letter to Forest Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Howard Solomon filed with regulators.  The investor also asked to inspect Forest’s books and
records for information about issues including its 2013 earnings
forecast, a share repurchasing program and compensation for
certain officers, according to his letter. Forest lost patent
protection for the antidepressant Lexapro, its best-selling
medicine, in March, and the company in April  forecast  a 26
percent decline in fiscal 2013 revenue to $3.4 billion.  Reviewing Nominations  Forest will evaluate Icahn’s nominees, the company said in
a statement.  “We have a strong and independent board, including three
new independent directors elected last year, who are committed
to acting in the best interests of all of Forest’s
shareholders,” the company said.  The accusations in Icahn’s letter “are generally
unsupported and inaccurate,” Forest said in its statement.  Shareholders may be convinced to support re-election of
Forest’s current board because of the stock’s performance this
year and presentations at an “Investor Day” the company is
holding tomorrow,  William Tanner , an analyst with Lazard Capital
Markets, said today in a note to clients.  Forest declined less than 1 percent to $34.67 at the close
of  New York  trading. The shares have gained 15 percent so far
this year.  Icahn “has been known to renew proxy fights year after
year,” Tanner said. The company’s board may decide to pursue a
sale of the company rather than concede to Icahn’s demands, he
said.  Tanner has a neutral rating on Forest’s stock and doesn’t
own shares, he said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  