-- Michaelcheck’s Mariner Plans to Back Statup Hedge Funds
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-06-19T15:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/michaelcheck-s-mariner-plans-to-back-statup-hedge-funds.html
Mariner Investment Group LLC,
William Michaelcheck’s $4.7 billion multistrategy hedge fund
focused on fixed income and credit arbitrage, is starting a pool
to invest in new  hedge funds , according to a letter to
investors.  The firm will hire people to manage capital allocations to
startups, spinouts and new Mariner-advised or Mariner supported
funds, Chairman and Chief Investment Officer Michaelcheck said
in the firm’s first-quarter letter to investors, a copy of which
was obtained by Bloomberg News. Mariner received a $500 million
investment from the state-owned Alaska Permanent Fund Corp.,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  More traders are starting their own firms as investment
banks shut down their proprietary trading desks to comply with
new regulations. Hedge-fund startups increased in the first
quarter to 304 funds, the most since 2007, as industrywide
capital rose to a record $2.13 trillion, according to Chicago-
based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Peter O’Rourke, Mariner’s general counsel, declined to
comment on the letter.  Mariner, based in Harrison,  New York , was founded by
Michaelcheck, a former Bear Stearns Cos. fixed-income executive.
Mariner Partners, its flagship multistrategy fund, climbed 2.4
percent this year through April, the firm said in the letter.  Mortgage Fund  Mariner also plans to open a mortgage fund, the Galton
Mortgage Value Fund III, according to the letter. Mariner’s
residential mortgage credit team, Galton Capital Management,
will be starting the fund to capture investment opportunities in
mortgage debt lacking government backing, along with whole
loans, single-name credit default swaps, and indexes.  The firm started the Mariner Hyman Beck Global Fund, a fund
that follows technical trends, in the first quarter, it said in
the letter. Hyman Beck & Co., a quantitative alternative
investment management firm founded by Alex Hyman and Carl Beck
in 1991, serves as the fund’s trading manager.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  