-- Microsoft Unveils Surface Tablet Computer to Rival IPad
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s ,   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-06-19T20:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/microsoft-unveils-surface-tablet-computer-taking-on-ipad-1-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  unveiled its own
Windows-powered tablet computer called Surface, altering its
strategy of focusing on software and relying on partners to make
the machines in a renewed attempt to take on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  The tablet has a 10.6-inch display and will run the new
version of Microsoft’s operating system, Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Ballmer  said at an event yesterday at Milk Studios in Los
Angeles. The device’s cover serves as a full keyboard with a
track pad. Surface will be available later this year.  The world’s largest software maker is stepping up its
assault on the tablet market as consumers choose the devices
over laptops, weakening personal-computer sales and curbing
Windows revenue. The new strategy threatens to sour Microsoft’s
relationship with some PC makers, many of which have been
investing to develop their own Windows 8 tablets and may not
want to compete directly with Microsoft.  “What can I say? Hell froze over -- this is totally
antithetical to their core business,” said  Michael Gartenberg ,
an analyst at Gartner Inc. “They’re taking their destiny into
their own hands. It’s a bold move, but it’s a very risky one.
This could turn into Microsoft’s next Zune or its next Xbox.”  Microsoft advanced 2.9 percent to $30.70 at the close in
 New York , and has climbed 18 percent this year. Apple increased
0.3 percent to $587.41.  Two Versions  The company wants to release Windows 8, the new version of
its software that is optimized for touch-screen tablets, in time
for the end-of-year holidays and will have a version for x86
chips from  Intel Corp . and for ones based on ARM Holdings Plc’s
technology, which is also used in the iPad. The Surface tablet
will be available in versions running both chip designs.  Microsoft said the Surface’s price will be announced closer
to when the devices are available and will be “competitive with
a comparable ARM tablet or Intel Ultrabook-class PC.”  The version for ARM will go on sale when Windows 8 is
released. The Intel-based version will be available about 90
days later, Microsoft said in a statement.  The ARM version of Surface weighs less than 1.5 pounds (680
grams), is 9.3 millimeters (0.37 inches) thick, has a magnesium
case and will be powered by an  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  Tegra processor, the
company said at the event. Surface also has a built-in
kickstand.  “The Surface is something new that we think people will
absolutely love,” Ballmer said.  PC Market  Windows 8 will arrive amid a deteriorating PC market --
research firm Gartner Inc. on June 15 cut its 2012 PC shipment
growth forecast to 2.7 percent from 4.4 percent. Tablet
shipments, by comparison, are forecast to almost double to 116
million units this year, Gartner estimates.  Microsoft’s entry into the tablet market also comes as
challengers such as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and Research In Motion
Ltd. have failed to derail Apple’s dominance with their own
tablets. The worldwide tablet market is estimated to reach $78.7
billion this year, according to research firm DisplaySearch.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s No. 4 mobile-phone maker,
will sideline tablet development to focus more on smaller
devices rather than compete head-on with Apple Inc.’s iPad, the
Seoul-based company said in an e-mail today. LG introduced its
second tablet, named Optimus Pad LTE, earlier this year.  Microsoft is also teaming up with PC makers like Acer Inc.,
Toshiba Corp. and Asustek Computer Inc. to build tablets with
Windows 8, which will be called Windows RT for versions running
on ARM-based chips.  Apple’s Dominance  Working with partners is Microsoft’s more traditional way
of operating. Apple’s success with the iPad may be pushing the
company to seek greater control over the hardware design so it
works seamlessly with the software, like Apple does.  Still, gaining ground against Apple won’t be easy. Even as
companies including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and Samsung Electronics Co.
release new tablets running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system, Apple’s iPad continues to dominate the market.
Researcher IDC predicts the iPad will account for 62.5 percent
of global shipments this year, up from 58.2 percent last year.  The last time Microsoft opted to make its own hardware
because its partners weren’t gaining traction against Apple, the
company produced the Zune music player. It didn’t fare any
better against the iPod, and Microsoft discontinued the product
last year.  ‘Software Assets’  At the other end of the spectrum, Microsoft’s Xbox console
is now the top-selling game machine, with 67 million units
shipped. The Xbox 360 device, which also streams television and
media content, has helped Microsoft stake a claim to customers’
living rooms.  Sarah Rotman Epps, an analyst at Forrester Research, said
Microsoft’s focus on trying to best Apple in hardware design
could backfire if Surface tablets don’t offer software that
stands out.  “What they didn’t show were Kinect, SmartGlass and other
software assets that could be key differentiators against the
iPad,” she said. “The months are ticking by, and the
announcement left more questions than answers about how
successful these devices will be.”  After seeing early prototypes from its hardware partners,
Microsoft probably wanted to show the industry what it thinks is
a good implementation of its tablet ambitions, said Ben Bajarin,
an analyst at technology consulting firm Creative Strategies.  Shifting Focus  “A lot of their traditional partners have not really been
focused on the tablet market, and were planning early on to go
after new designs for traditional notebooks and desktops,”
Bajarin said. “This is an effort to drive the category in the
right direction.”  In what may be a concession to PC partners, Microsoft will
sell the device only online and in its own  retail stores , which
will number 20 by the end of the month, Gartenberg said.
Microsoft also could let vendors build their own Surface
tablets, which may sell for $499 to $699, and pay for marketing
the devices, Bajarin said.  Since the release of International Business Machines
Corp.’s first PC in 1981, Microsoft has focused on software for
the machines and left design and branding to hardware makers.
While the company has in the past decade played a larger role in
working with some PC makers on design, it has shied away from
developing the machines and selling them under the Microsoft
brand.  Profit Margins  Ballmer’s comments at the event indicated that Microsoft no
longer wanted to rely on its hardware partners to translate its
vision for Windows into compelling devices, said Gartenberg and
Rob Enderle, principal analyst at the Enderle Group.  “They clearly want to make sure at least one Windows 8
tablet is seen as a premium product, offering a premium
experience to consumers,” Enderle said. “Now they need to
execute, or they just handed Apple an early Christmas present.”  The addition of a tablet or other hardware device may erode
profitability in the Windows business, which now sells just
software with  operating margins  of more than 60 percent. By
comparison, computer maker Dell Inc.’s operating margin for the
most recent fiscal year was about 7 percent.  “We are certainly running a business,” Ballmer said
backstage at yesterday’s event, though he declined to discuss
financial details. “There won’t be an advantage from a cost
perspective over our OEMs,” he said, referring to PC partners.  Sales in Microsoft’s Windows  division  have fallen short of
analysts’ estimates in four of the past six quarters, partially
because consumers are defecting to the iPad.  “Investors will like the device initially and then will go
through the question of what does this do to profit margins,”
said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in
 Portland ,  Oregon , who rates the shares “sector perform.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  