-- High-Frequency Definition Needed, CFTC’s O’Malia Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-19T13:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/high-frequency-definition-needed-cftc-s-o-malia-says.html
High-frequency trading should be
defined before the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
sets rules for what amounts to about half of the volume of
 futures markets , said  Scott O’Malia , a member of the panel.  The CFTC needs a better understanding of the practices as
it debates new testing and supervision rules for high-frequency
and automated trading, O’Malia said in a speech prepared for a
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association conference
today in New York.  “Before we implement a new regulatory regime on any
continent or in cyberspace, I believe we need to agree on what
and who compromises this growing segment of our markets,” said
O’Malia, a Republican.  The CFTC, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, has
scrutinized such trading since May 6, 2010, when $862 billion
was erased from stock values in 20 minutes in the so-called
“flash crash.” The agency has been drafting a release on new
rules, a regulatory step prior to proposed rules.  The release may include testing, supervision and
protections of participants with direct  market access , CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in March.  The CFTC’s technology advisory committee, led by O’Malia,
is meeting tomorrow to discuss definitions of high-frequency
trading. Participants include Supurna VedBrat, managing director
and co-head of electronic trading and market structure at
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ; Gary DeWaal, general counsel of Newedge USA LLC;
and Charles Vice, president and chief operating officer of
Atlanta-based Intercontinental Exchange Inc. Ben MacDonald of
Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, is a member of the
technology panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  