-- Millionaires in Asia Outnumber North America: Report
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-06-19T15:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/millionaires-in-asia-outnumber-north-america-report.html
Asia-Pacific millionaires
outnumbered those in North America for the first time last year
as the world’s wealthy saw a decline in their fortunes,
according to a report by  Capgemini SA (CAP)  and RBC Wealth Management.  The number of individuals in Asia-Pacific with at least $1
million in investable assets jumped 1.6 percent to 3.37 million,
helped by an increase in rich people in  China ,  Japan ,  Thailand ,
 Malaysia  and  Indonesia , according to the World Wealth Report
released today. So-called high-net-worth individuals in North
America dropped 1.1 percent to 3.35 million.  “While throughout the world the euro-zone crisis has
affected markets in general and investors’ level of uncertainty,
within the Asia-Pacific region we have seen strength in their
domestic economies underlying their performance from an economic
standpoint,” Gay Mitchell, deputy chairman for RBC Wealth
Management, said in an interview in Toronto. “As such it’s
yielded an increase in population for high net-worth
individuals.”  The population of millionaires worldwide was little changed
at 11 million, according to the report. Their wealth dropped 1.7
percent to $42 trillion of assets last year, the first decline
since 2008, as the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis and lack
of economic growth in the U.S. roiled investors.  Emerging Economies  Emerging economies continued to grow in 2011, while the
U.S. and Europe struggled under the burden of sovereign debt
that sparked uncertainty across financial markets. China’s real
gross domestic product surged 9.2 percent last year, even after
slowing compared with 2010, Capgemini and RBC said. That beat
growth of 1.7 percent in the U.S. and western Europe.  North America  remained the richest region with $11.4
trillion in high net-worth assets, compared with $10.7 trillion
in Asia-Pacific, the report said. Wealth in Europe fell 1.1
percent to $10.1 trillion after rising 7.2 percent in 2010.
 Latin America  had the biggest drop among the regions, falling
2.9 percent to $7.1 trillion in assets for its rich. The Middle
East was the only region to post growth in assets among the
wealthy, increasing funds 0.7 percent to $1.7 trillion.  “Market volatility and the uncertainty from the economic
environment certainly has investors concerned and we’ve seen a
continued shift to preserving capital and investing in more
conservative asset allocations, certainly in North America and
in  Europe ,” Bill Sullivan, a Rosemont, Illinois-based director
at Capgemini, said in a telephone interview. “Asia-Pacific
individuals may have a slightly more aggressive attitude toward
investing right now.”  Super Rich  The super-rich category with $30 million or more saw their
assets shrink 4.9 percent, following 12 percent growth in the
prior year, contributing to the total decline.  Global wealth will grow at 4 percent to 5 percent during
the next five years, driven by wealth creation in  emerging
markets , especially  Asia , excluding Japan,  Boston Consulting
Group  said in a separate report this month. Wealth surged at a
compound annual rate of almost 11 percent from 2002 to 2007
before the financial crisis, and the indebtedness of developed-
market economies slowed growth, according to the Boston-based
firm.  Global equity market capitalization ended last year at
$43.1 trillion, down 19 percent from 2010, the report said. The
 MSCI AC World Index (MXWD) , which tracks global stocks in developed and
emerging markets, lost 9.4 percent in 2011 and the  MSCI AC Asia
Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 17 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Significant Churn’  Adapting to the shift in the balance of wealth across the
world is a challenge, especially for firms that can’t adapt
legacy business models, said Jean Lassignardie, head of sales
and marketing for financial services at Capgemini, said by
telephone, referring to companies managing generations of money
in more mature markets. That may result in a “significant churn
in the leaders of the industry,” he said.  Wealth managers should readdress their business models and
focus on increasing asset bases without adding new costs, Paris-
based Lassignardie said. Developed-market private banks face
rising costs, an inability to generate significant fees in the
current low interest-rate environment and increased client
demand for low-risk capital-preservation products, according to
today’s report.  Capgemini and RBC Wealth Management, a unit of Toronto-
based  Royal Bank of Canada , compiled data from 71 countries
representing 98 percent of the world’s gross national income.
Capgemini’s annual survey was previously sponsored by Merrill
Lynch Wealth Management, a unit of Bank of America Corp.  RBC Wealth Management oversees more than C$322 billion
($316 billion) for customers globally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  