-- IMF Warns Uganda Against Rushing Into Planned Sale of Eurobonds
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2012-06-19T11:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/imf-warns-uganda-against-rushing-into-planned-sale-of-eurobonds.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
warned Uganda against rushing into a sale of Eurobonds before it
develops the capacity to invest the money efficiently.  Interest rates on the borrowed funds would burden the East
African nation if the money isn’t spent effectively, Thomas
Richardson, the Washington-based lender’s representative in
Uganda, said in an interview today in Kampala, the capital.  The government “needs to focus on building capacity to
invest well,” he said. It is “having a difficult time
investing in infrastructure effectively.”  Uganda plans to sell its first dollar-denominated Eurobond
in the next two to three years to finance “massive” projects,
Keith Muhakanizi, the deputy treasury secretary, said on May 29.  Donor funding at  interest rates  as low as 1 percent is a
better alternative than the 7 to 8 percent interest likely to be
paid on the Eurobonds, Richardson said.  Aid will finance at least 25 percent of Uganda’s budget in
the 12 months through June next year, Finance Minister Maria
Kiwanuka said on June 14. The U.S., U.K., European Union,
Denmark, Sweden and Japan are some of the main donors.  Uganda, where Tullow Oil and partners say they have found
2.5 billion barrels of crude, has a sovereign credit rating of
B+, four steps below investment grade, at  Standard & Poor’s .  The government should also avoid the temptation of
borrowing from the national pension fund at lower than market
rates, Richardson said. President  Yoweri Museveni  announced
plans this month to borrow 1.4 trillion shillings ($560 million)
from the fund to finance  road construction .  Uganda’s economy may expand 5.4 percent in the 2012-13
financial year and government revenue, currently 12 percent of
gross domestic product, may increase by about a quarter of a
percentage point after the abolition of tax incentives,
Richardson said.  The economy grew 3.2 percent in the current financial year,
the slowest pace for 25 years because of the European debt
crisis and high  oil prices , Museveni said on June 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  