-- Indian Rupee Drops to Two-Week Low on Inflow Concerns
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-06-19T12:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/indian-rupee-drops-to-two-week-low-on-inflow-concerns.html
India ’s rupee dropped to the lowest
level in more than two weeks on speculation foreign investors
will slow purchases of the nation’s stocks after the central
bank unexpectedly kept borrowing costs unchanged.  The  Reserve Bank  of India’s benchmark  repurchase rate  will
stay at 8 percent, the monetary authority said in a statement
yesterday. The move was predicted by only four of 25 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Fitch Ratings  lowered the country’s
credit outlook to negative from stable yesterday, citing
heightened risk of deteriorating growth and limited progress in
paring the  budget deficit .  “India is under pressure and in a lose-lose situation,”
Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong
Kong , wrote in a research note to clients today. “Expect
continued pressure on the rupee.”  The currency declined 0.1 percent to 55.97 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
touched 56.1250 earlier, the weakest level since June 1. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used
to price options, rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 11.75 percent.  Global funds cut  holdings  of Indian stocks by $179 million
in the past month, according to exchange data. “While growth in
2011-2012 has moderated significantly, headline inflation
remains above levels consistent with sustainable growth,” the
RBI said yesterday. Official data show  wholesale prices  rose
7.55 percent in May, a faster pace than April’s 7.23 percent.  U.S. Stimulus  The rupee pared losses on speculation U.S. policy makers
will announce fresh stimulus measures to shore up growth in the
world’s largest economy. The  Federal Open Market Committee  will
begin a two-day policy meeting today after data in the past week
showed U.S. retail sales fell for a second month in May and
consumer prices dropped the most in three years.  With “liquidity likely to chase safe but relatively
higher-yielding assets, Asian bond markets are likely to be
supported,” analysts at Barclays Plc’s investment banking unit,
including Singapore-based Kumar Rachapudi, wrote in a note to
clients today.  Three-month onshore currency forwards traded at 56.96 per
dollar, compared with 56.92 yesterday, and offshore non-
deliverable contracts were at 57.09 from 57.07. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  