-- Subbarao Says India’s Inflation Rate Is Above Tolerance
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-06-19T18:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/india-s-inflation-rate-is-above-tolerance-level-subbarao-says.html
Indian inflation exceeds acceptable
levels and restraining it may require sacrificing economic
growth, central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said.  “Headline inflation has come down,  core inflation  has come
down to below 5 percent, but WPI inflation is still above our
tolerance level at 7.5 percent,” Subbarao said in a speech in
 Mumbai  yesterday, referring to  India ’s benchmark wholesale-price
index. “Consumer-price inflation is running above 10 percent.
That is quite disturbing.”  The  Reserve Bank of India  unexpectedly left  interest rates 
unchanged on June 18 as price pressures narrow scope to bolster
the weakest growth in almost a decade. Curbing the nation’s
fiscal deficit and the success of the monsoon are among the keys
to controlling inflation, Subbarao said.  “India is flirting with stagflation and needs a dose of
supply-side reforms to improve medium-term growth potential,”
said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, Mumbai-based chief economist
at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. “However, the
political realities are such that the chances of structural
reforms and fiscal consolidation are uncertain.”  Price increases have been stoked in part by costlier
imports following a near 20 percent slump in the rupee against
the dollar in the past year. The currency tumbled as growth
deteriorated and  Europe ’s debt crisis sapped demand for
emerging-market assets.  Growth Sacrifice  “We may have to sacrifice growth in the short term to
contain inflation which eventually will help us grow nearly as
much as our potential rate in the medium term,” Subbarao said.
“In the medium term, inflation is inimical to growth.”  The rupee declined 0.1 percent to 55.97 per dollar in
Mumbai yesterday, while the BSE India Sensitive Index rose 0.9
percent. The yield on the 8.15 percent bond due June 2022
declined six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.11
percent.  Subbarao said the central bank will continue with its
policy of intervening in the foreign-exchange market to curb
volatility. India has currency reserves to cover eight months of
imports, he said.  The nation’s decision to hold its repurchase rate at 8
percent contrasts with cuts in Brazil and  China  in the past
three weeks as the impact of Europe’s turmoil fans through Asia.  Gross domestic product  rose 5.3 percent in the three months
through March from a year earlier, the least since 2003, weighed
down in part by a moderation in investment caused by political
gridlock over proposed economic policy changes.  Price Pressures  The  wholesale-price index  climbed 7.55 percent in May from
a year earlier, the fastest pace in the BRIC group of largest
 emerging markets  that also includes Brazil, Russia and China.  The government’s projected fiscal deficit of 5.1 percent of
GDP in the year through March 2013 is the group’s widest, stoked
by a subsidy program ranging from diesel to fertilizers.  India needs to narrow its budget shortfall and enact
reforms in governance, domestic taxation and the foreign
investment regime, Subbarao said. It also needs to accelerate
project clearances and improve infrastructure to boost the pace
of economic growth, he said.  “The government must discourage expenditure that is for
consumption as it drives up wages and is inflationary,”
Subbarao said. “That puts pressure on the fiscal deficit to
widen.”  Hours after the  Reserve Bank  left borrowing costs unchanged
two days ago, Fitch Ratings lowered India’s credit outlook to
negative, joining  Standard & Poor’s  in saying the nation is at
risk of losing its investment-grade status.  Junk-Status Threat  Fitch cited the heightened risk of a deterioration in
growth potential and limited progress on paring the  budget
deficit  in its decision to lower the outlook on India’s BBB-
rating, which is one step above so-called junk status.  Standard & Poor’s warned on June 11 that it may cut India’s
rating after lowering the outlook to negative in April.  “While growth in 2011-2012 has moderated significantly,
headline inflation remains above levels consistent with
sustainable growth,” the Reserve Bank said after its decision
to hold the  repurchase rate , an outcome predicted by only four
of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The expansion in  Asia ’s third-largest economy has moderated
in part after Subbarao raised rates by a record 3.75 percentage
points from mid-March 2010 to October last year to try and
contain inflation, which exceeded 9 percent for most of 2011.  The central bank in January and March reduced the amount
lenders must set aside as reserves by a combined 125 basis
points, to 4.75 percent, to ease cash shortages at banks. It
said June 18 it will continue to use purchases of  government
bonds  as warranted to “contain liquidity pressures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  