-- Indonesia Central Bank’s Hadad to Head Financial Regulator
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-06-19T15:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/indonesia-names-central-bank-s-hadad-to-head-financial-regulator.html
Indonesia ’s parliament approved  Bank
Indonesia  Deputy Governor Muliaman Hadad to head the board of a
national financial regulator due to start operating in January
2013.  Lawmakers chose Hadad over Achjar Iljas, who held a similar
position at the central bank a decade ago, after conducting so-
called fit-and-proper tests this month on the 14 people
nominated by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono for the seven
positions at the regulator. Hadad was chosen by acclamation,
rather than by vote, according to a notice posted in the meeting
room of Commission XI, which oversees financial institutions.  The new regulator, known in the Indonesian language as
Otoritas Jasa Keuangan, or OJK, will supervise capital markets,
insurers, pension funds and other non-bank institutions next
year and oversee commercial lenders starting from January 2014.
It will take over regulation of a financial industry dominated
by banks that are products of a restructuring in the aftermath
of the 1997-98 Asian crisis, and which has prompted  Southeast
Asia ’s largest banking takeover bid.  “Hadad is a competent figure to lead this super-power body
as he has experience in supervising banking industries, which
control almost 80 percent of financial institutions in
Indonesia,” Agustinus Prasetyantoko, a Jakarta-based economist
from the University of Atmajaya, said before the announcement.  Hadad earned a bachelor’s degree in economics from the
University of Indonesia in 1984 and a master’s in public
education from  Harvard University  in 1991. He received a
doctorate in business and economics from  Monash University  in
 Melbourne  in 1996.  Supervisory Scope  The OJK will take over regulation of capital markets,
insurers and pension funds from the Capital Market and Financial
Institution Supervisory Board, and assume responsibility for
bank supervision, currently handled by the central bank.  Bank
Indonesia  currently oversees 120 foreign and local commercial
banks, with total assets of 3,745.1 trillion rupiah ($396
billion) as of April.  Indonesia spent 450 trillion rupiah to rescue lenders
during the Asian financial crisis, when anger over corruption
during Suharto’s regime helped topple the dictator in 1998. On
April 2,  Singapore ’s DBS Group Holdings Ltd. made a 66 trillion-
rupiah takeover offer for PT Bank Danamon Indonesia, a purchase
that may be undermined as the central bank considers restricting
ownership of the country’s lenders.  Also named to the board:
Nelson Tampubolon, a former director in the International
Directorate at the central bank, Nurhaida, chairwoman of the
Financial Market and Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency
at the Ministry of Finance,  Rahmat Waluyanto , director general
of debt management at the Ministry of Finance, Firdaus Djaelani,
commissioner at the Insurance Deposit Agency, Ilya Avianti,
auditor at the Supreme Audit Agency and Kusumaningtuti Soetiono,
a director in the Directorate of Human Resources at the central
bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  