-- Minnesota Seeks Wider Complaint Against Accretive Health
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-19T21:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/minnesota-seeks-wider-complaint-against-accretive-health.html
Accretive Health Inc. (AH)  maintains “an
aggressive boiler room-type culture within hospitals,”
 Minnesota ’s attorney general said in court papers seeking to add
to her lawsuit complaint against the health-care billings
management company.  Attorney General Lori Swanson, who sued the Chicago-based
company in January over alleged violations of privacy law,
raised new claims today in a bid for permission to revise her
complaint against Accretive for the second time.  On April 30, the company asked U.S. District Judge Richard H. Kyle in St. Paul, Minnesota to throw out the case, arguing it
is “factually baseless and legally indefensible.” The state
hasn’t filed opposition papers. A hearing is set for Aug. 2.  “Accretive prepared a document called ‘the Accretive
Secret Sauce,’ or ‘ASS,’ touting ‘you’ve never seen ASS like
ours!”’ according to the new filing, referencing a two-page
exhibit it says describes the company’s emergency room
collections process.  “The impact of the ‘Secret Sauce’ on patients is very
real,” according to Swanson’s filing. “Its tactics also
violate the law.”  In her complaint, the attorney general criticized
Accretive’s work for Minnesota-based Fairview Health Services
and North Memorial Health Care. She later alleged the firm
improperly posted debt collectors in hospital emergency rooms
and at patient bedsides.  “The state’s proposed amended complaint contains no new
causes of action and no additional requested relief,” Ruth Pachman, a spokeswoman for Accretive, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Swanson’s new allegations contain mischaracterizations and
distortions of documents and facts, Pachman said, adding that
her client would seek dismissal of the second amended complaint,
too.  The case is State of Minnesota v. Accretive Health Inc.,
12-cv-00145, U.S. District Court for Minnesota ( St. Paul ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  