-- Intel, Vuitton, Kuoni, Comcast: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-19T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/intel-vuitton-kuoni-macy-s-comcast-intellectual-property.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the Santa Clara,
California-based chipmaker, agreed to buy 1,700 patents and
patent applications from  InterDigital Inc. (IDCC) , according to a joint
company statement.  The patents are primarily related to advanced wireless
technologies, including high-speed download packet access and
high speed upload packet access.  Intel is paying the  King of Prussia , Pennsylvania-based
wireless technology company $375 million in cash, the companies
said.  Scott McQuilkin, senior executive vice president for
strategy and finance at InterDigital, said in the statement that
the sale is only “a small portion of our overall patent
portfolio,” and that it marks an expansion of the company’s IP
strategy. The company intends to expand the monetization of its
IP portfolio, he said.  The patents will support Intel’s “strategic investments in
the mobile segment,” said Doug Melamed, Intel senior vice
president and general counsel.  The transaction is expected to be completed in the third
quarter of 2012, subject to closing conditions and required
regulatory approval, the companies said.  Allergan Loses Appeal Over Patents for Sanctura XR Drug  Allergan Inc. (AGN)  lost an appeals court bid to block generic
versions of the urinary incontinence drug  Sanctura XR  by
companies including  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  and  Novartis
AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  yesterday, without issuing a formal opinion, upheld a
lower court ruling invalidating patents on the drug. Notice of
the court’s decision was posted on its website.  The suit was filed in July 2009, and the lower court issued
its ruling March 12.  The lower court case is Allergan Inc. v. Watson
Laboratories Inc.-Florida, 1:09-cv-00511-GMS, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  The appeal is Allergan Inc. v. Watson Laboratories Inc.,
12-1310, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Vuitton’s Infringement Suit Over ‘Hangover’ Film Dismissed  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s trademark
infringement suit against  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Brothers
Entertainment was dismissed by a federal judge in  Manhattan .  The maker of luxury handbags filed suit in December,
claiming the use of a counterfeit  Louis Vuitton  bag in “The
Hangover: Part II” film constituted trademark infringement.  One of the characters in the film says of the bag “careful
... that is a Louis Vuitton,” and Vuitton had claimed this
would confuse consumers as to the source of the product and that
mistaken association would tarnish the company’s trademarks.  The bag used in the movie was actually from a company
against which Vuitton brought an action before the U.S.
International Trade Commission, a body with the power to ban the
import of infringing items, the luxury-goods company said.  Vuitton does authorize product placement in movies, only
with its permission and only with genuine products, according to
court papers. Warner was accused of stepping outside the general
practice in the movie industry of clearing the use of a branded
product with the brand owner.  In addition to seeking an order barring the advertising,
promotion and distribution of the film containing any scenes
with the allegedly infringing bag, Vuitton had asked the court
to order the destruction of all copies of the film that contain
images of the counterfeit bag and represent it as a genuine
Louis Vuitton product.  Additionally, Vuitton sought an award of Warner Brother’s
profits related to its alleged false designation or origin,
money damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  U.S. District Judge Andrew L. Carter was unimpressed with
the luxury-goods company’s arguments. He said in his June 15
ruling that there was no likelihood that moviegoers would think
the fake was a real bag just because a character in the film
said it was. He also said that the character mispronounced the
company name, saying “Lewis” Vuitton.  The character’s mispronunciation is a comic element in the
film, adding to his image as “a socially inept and comically
misinformed character,” the judge said. He found that this put
the film’s use of the bag and trade name into the realm of
artistic expression permitted under the First Amendment.  He also said that it is “highly unlikely” that an
appreciable number of moviegoers would even notice the bag was a
knock-off.  This isn’t the first time the film has been the target of
an infringement suit. In April 2011, the tattoo artist who
created  Mike Tyson ’s distinctive tattoo sued over the use of
that design in the film. That case settled in June 2011 for
undisclosed terms.  That case was Whitmill v. Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.,
4:11-cv-00752-DCP, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Missouri ( St. Louis ).  In the new case, Vuitton is represented by  Theodore C. Max 
of Los Angeles-based Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP, and
 Robert E. Shapiro ,  Wendi E. Sloane  and  Vito S. Solitro  of
Chicago’s  Barack Ferrazzano Kirschbaum & Nagelberg LLP .  Time Warner’s lawyers were Andrew Harrison Bart and Gianni
P. Servodidio of Chicago’s Jenner & Block LLP.  The case is Louis Vuitton Malletier SA v. Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc., 1:11-cv-09436-ALC, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Kuoni Wins Court Order Banning Indian Company’s Use of ‘SITA’  Kuoni Reisen Holding AG (KUNN) , the Switzerland-based travel
company that acquired India’s SITA World Travel in 2000, won a
trademark case involving its “SITA” trademarks, India’s
Financial Express  reported .  Delhi’s  High Court  ordered Sita Expedition Pvt. Ltd. from
doing business under the SITA trademark or using the Internet
domain name sitaexpedition.com, according to the newspaper.  Counsel for Kuoni had argued that SITA/Sita Expedition of
Ghaziabad included “SITA” in its name “with an oblique motive
to capitalize on the goodwill and reputation of Kuoni,” the
Express reported.  The court’s order is temporary and in force until the next
hearing on the disputed mark, according to the newspaper.  Macy’s Sued for Infringement by Holder of ‘Lower East Side’ Mark  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the retail chain based in Cincinnati, was sued
for trademark infringement by the proprietor of the L.E.S.
Clothing Co. of New York.  The suit involves the “LES” group of trademarks held by
Robert Lopez’s L.E.S. Clothing. The marks are all related to the
Lower East Side, a Manhattan neighborhood. Lopez said in the
complaint his company has been selling clothing under those
marks since 1999.  He objects to the large retailer’s sale of shirts printed
with “Lower East Side” and “Lower East Side New York.” He
claimed that he has had customers ask about the shirts sold at
Macy’s.  Customers are confused by the shirts Macy’s is selling,
Lopez says, and he’s been injured and damaged by such sales.  He asked the court to bar further infringement of his
marks, and for an order for the seizure and destruction of any
infringing products and promotional materials.  Additionally, he seeks money damages, including extra
damages to punish Macy’s for its alleged infringement, together
with awards of attorney fees and litigation costs. Macy’s didn’t
respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  Lopez has sued other retailers for trademark infringement,
including Payless ShoeSource Inc., J. Crew Inc., Aeropostale
Inc., The Gap Inc., Urban Outfitters Inc. and Coat of Arms LLC.
Most of those cases have settled, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  He is unrepresented by counsel in all the cases except for
a dispute with The Gap. In that case, which hasn’t settled, he
is represented by Nivritha Casi Ketty, Robert W. Lehrburder and
Solmaz Fatemeh Firoz of New York’s Patterson Belknap Webb &
Tyler LLP.  That case is Lopez v. The Gap Inc., 1:11-cv-03185-PAE, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  The case against Macy’s is Lopez v. Macys.com Inc., 1:12-
cv-04621-PGG, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Comcast Refused to Deliver Subscriber Data, Court Agrees  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the Philadelphia-based cable company and
 Internet service provider , refused to comply with a demand that
it release identification information about its subscribers to
makers of adult films suing them for illegal file sharing.  In a June 1 court filing, Comcast said it was unfair to let
the plaintiffs profit from litigation tactics that “uses the
offices of the court as an inexpensive means to gain the Doe
defendants personal information and coerce ‘settlements’ from
them.”  Comcast claimed the film companies had no intention of
actually trying a case and were only using the court to get
information so they could “shake down” the defendants.  The film companies responded in a June 8 filing. They said
Comcast is making “baseless” claims and instead “attempts to
draw the court’s attention away from its meritless legal
arguments through character attacks.”  In an order issued June 14, U.S. District Judge Garry
Feinerman ordered that the subpoenas the film companies
requested not be issued.  The case is AF Holdings LLC v. Comcast Cable Communications
LLC, 1:12-cv-03516, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  Israeli Music Association Sues Arabic Station for Infringement  Israel’s  Association of Composers Authors and Publishers of
Music  sued an Arabic-language media outlet for copyright
infringement,  Haaretz reported .  The suit, filed in Haifa District Court, alleged the
newspaper Kul al-Arab of Nazareth has failed to pay royalties
for the playing of music on its online radio station, according
to Haaretz.  That court has temporarily ordered Kul al-Arab to quit
playing music from any of the association’s members, according
to Haaretz.  One of the owners of Kul al-Arab declined to comment on the
suit, Haaretz reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 