-- Hirst Cow Watches as Emin Eats at Mark Hix’s Tramshed
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-06-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/hirst-cow-watches-as-emin-eats-at-mark-hix-s-tramshed.html
The Tramshed formula is simple:
Chicken or steak is the choice in this new London restaurant.  In case you forget, the room is dominated by a huge Damien Hirst vitrine of a cow with a chicken on its back. It’s called
“ Cock and Bull ” and was created for the space. Don’t ask what
it’s worth. If you need another visual clue, a second Hirst --
“Beef and Chicken” -- hangs on the wall.  The artworks beat laminated photographs for illustrating a
menu. They should also alert you to the fact that you are in the
establishment of Mark Hix, a restaurateur with so many rich and
famous friends he doesn’t even need to drop names. He’s best
mates with several artists, whose works pop up in his venues.  (When I interviewed Tracey Emin recently, she said the most
likely place I would run into her would be at the Tramshed.)  It’s a dramatic space, where the ceiling is high and the
far wall distant. It was built in 1905 as an electricity-
generating station for trams and Hix has made the most of a
building whose raison d’etre expired decades ago. There’s a bar
along one side, a mezzanine area for a few diners and a semi-
private lounge tucked away at the back.  Cocktails are by the drinks genius Nick Strangeway, a
winner of the World Mixologist/Bartender of the year.  The menu couldn’t be more stripped down. There are three
starters, which you get as a selection for 7.50 pounds ($11.75).
The chicken is 25 pounds and is served on a skewer with its feet
pointing north, like a tour guide who has suffered an
unfortunate accident. It feeds two or three diners and is served
with chips and salad.  Tracey’s Bird  When Emin orders the chicken, she likes it served with the
feet off. She gets her way because her contribution to Hix
restaurants includes designing the label on the  Tonnix  wine Hix
serves.  The free-range birds come from  Woolley Park Farm , in
Wiltshire. They are so good, they raise hopes that the U.K. is
finally closing the gap with  France  when it comes to fine
chickens. Their meat is soft, sweet and moist.  The steak is Mighty Marbled sirloin -- including Hereford,
Angus and Shorthorn breeds -- from  Hannan Meats , in  Northern
Ireland . It’s aged for a minimum of five weeks and dry-aged in a
Himalayan Salt Chamber, according to the Tramshed website, which
helpfully points out that the salt is mined by hand in  Pakistan .  It has plenty of depth of flavor and costs 20 pounds for
250 grams, rising to 80 pounds for a kilo (2.2 pounds). It’s
good value and hard to criticize, but it is not outstanding and
I shan’t be abandoning CUT, Goodman or Hawksmoor.  The only other options are a chicken or a steak salad, at
13.50 pounds. That’s the way I’m likely to go in the future.  Yorkshire Pudding  Among the starters, Yorkshire pudding with chicken liver is
a great match and I always ask for extra, as if I were
auditioning for Oliver. But Yorkshire pudding does need to make
the journey to table from oven very quickly or it gets a tad too
crusty.  Hix is usually good on puddings and the Tramshed is up to
his usual standard, with desserts such as apple pie with custard
and raspberry rippled cheesecake.  If you’re a vegetarian, all is not lost. There is a daily
vegetarian dish off menu, just as there is the option of fish
fingers with mushy peas if you know to ask. One of the ways Hix
finds fun in restaurants is with hidden surprises. For example,
there’s that lounge at the back that you are unlikely to find.  Good Service  If you meet Hix -- as I sometimes do over a cocktail or two
-- he can be the most engaging of companions: It’s easy to feel
part of the in crowd and to enjoy the quirky nature of his
hospitality. Wait for service while you watch him networking and
you might feel less sunny. Fortunately, the service at Tramshed
in its early days has been good, better than at his other venues
when they opened. (Takeaway food is also available.)  It looks like Hix has managed to narrow the gap between the
sharpness of his vision in creating a restaurant and the
fuzziness that has sometimes crept into day-to-day service.  (Hix’s partner, the actress  Lara Cazalet , gave birth to a
daughter on Friday, so he may be rather busy.)  Feel like chicken tonight? The Tramshed is a bold new
restaurant by one of  London ’s most exciting restaurateurs.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 50 pounds a head except for major carnivores.  Sound level? Can get lively at night, 75 decibels.  Inside tip? Look out for the basement gallery.  Special feature? Mark Hix.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes. Bring your own or meet one.  Rating? ***.  Tramshed, 32 Rivington Street, London, EC2A 3LX.
Information: +44-20-7749-0478 or
 http://www.chickenandsteak.co.uk/   Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
 James Pressley  on business books and  Ryan Sutton  on  New York 
restaurants.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 