-- Hirst Skull for $800 as Site Promises Art Revolution
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-06-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/hirst-skull-for-800-as-site-promises-art-revolution.html
Damien Hirst’s $100 million skull
could be yours for just $800.  Not the real diamond-studded cranium -- a high-definition
rotating image of it, certified by the artist, and available in
a limited edition of 2,000 from the new digital-art venture
 S[edition] , started in November by dealer Harry Blain.  Hirst and Tracey Emin are among artists producing the
inaugural batch of works: high-quality digital stills or videos
priced $8 to $1,600. Emin has contributed images of neon
inscriptions. The works are for iPads, smartphones, PC and TV
screens, and the artists get a cut of the sales.  So far, more than 100,000 Facebook users have “liked” the
S[edition] page. The online gallery doesn’t give out totals for
purchases or site subscribers. The most popular buy: a $20 still
image of a Hirst dot painting, “Xylosidase,” of which 577 out
of an edition of 10,000 have been sold.  “It’s modern, it’s hip, it’s new,” says Charley Uzzell
Edwards, a London-based street-art and graffiti-art dealer.
“But it doesn’t excite me quite as much as a nice old
engraving, where you see the plate marks, and the actual
physical character of the piece.”  For S[edition] to have more impact, says Uzzell Edwards, it
should represent artists whose original medium is the digital
screen. Stills of pre-existing artworks -- albeit low-resolution
ones -- can be downloaded for free from the Web. Also, he says,
edition sizes should be smaller to boost scarcity value.  Emerging Artists  S[edition] co-founder Robert Norton, former chief executive
of Saatchi Online, says both issues are being addressed.  “Short-term, we want to increase our stable of well-known
artists,” says Norton. “Longer-term, we want to make this a
platform for more emerging artists to offer more work
directly.”  The gallery also aims to set up an online secondary market
for the works to be resold. Editions will then be smaller to
boost their value as an investment, he says.  “The ability to resell the work is an important part, in
some collectors’ minds, in the decision to buy,” he says.  Blain -- who co-founded the  Haunch of Venison  gallery in
2002, sold it to Christie’s International in 2007 and now co-
runs  BlainSouthern  in  London  and Berlin and BlainDiDonna in  New
York  -- says digital is the next step for the art market.  “There was a fan base out there that weren’t being
engaged,” he says. “If you’re only ever talking to an existing
marketplace, then you’re talking to a shrinking market.”  Watermark Tracer  Blain dismisses the threat of bootlegging, saying the
product is “tracked and traced and watermarked.”  “If you have a first-edition book, it has a value,
recognition of it being the original, the authentic, the first
published volume,” he says. “There could be 10 billion
editions of that book, but it doesn’t erode the value of the
first edition.”  Among the moving-image works available on the site, Bill Viola has sequences from two of his videos, priced $200 each.
Mat Collishaw’s $48 “Whispering Weeds” shows tall weeds
swaying against a gray sky. Michael Craig-Martin’s $80
“Surfacing” has a square frame that moves over the line
drawing underneath and colors it.  S[edition] artist Isaac Julien -- a Turner Prize nominee
represented in the collections of  Tate  and  The Museum of Modern
Art  -- sees the gallery as a vehicle for “democratization” of
contemporary art. He’d like to see it market art originally made
for the screen (as opposed to an image of a pre-existing work).  Julien, who teaches media art at the ZKM Center for Arts
and Media in Karlsruhe,  Germany , also hopes prices will become
“a bit more expensive, to give value to that field, which is at
the moment locked out of the commercial art world.”  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on  London
restaurants ,  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,  James Pressley  on
business books and  Ryan Sutton  on New York restaurants.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 