-- Issa Says Holder Contempt Vote Over Gun Case to Proceed
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-06-19T23:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/issa-says-holder-contempt-vote-over-gun-case-to-proceed.html
A U.S. House committee chairman said
his panel would proceed with a vote tomorrow on holding Attorney
General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress unless he provides
documents subpoenaed by lawmakers.  After meeting with Holder today in Washington,
Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican who is
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform panel,
told reporters that a vote can be averted if the Justice
Department provides documents by tomorrow from a law enforcement
operation involving the sale of guns that ended up in  Mexico .  “At this point, we simply do not have the documents we
have repeatedly said we need to justify the postponement of a
contempt vote in committee,” Issa said in a statement.  The vote would be the latest escalation in a standoff
between lawmakers and Holder, who would be the first attorney
general held in contempt by a congressional committee since
1998.  Holder said he offered to turn over the documents on
condition that Issa give assurances that doing so would satisfy
the subpoena. The  Justice Department  already has provided
thousands of pages of documents, though not all of the materials
Issa requested.  Issa said that the panel must evaluate the documents to
determine whether they comply with the subpoena.  “We need the documents to know whether or not he’s being
responsive,” Issa said. If Holder turns them over before
tomorrow’s committee meeting, Issa said he would be willing to
delay the contempt vote while the panel evaluates the material.  ‘Political Gamesmanship’  Holder said today that the two sides were at an impasse
because Issa wouldn’t give him “an indication that if we
provide the material that would resolve the subpoena issue.”  “We are involved in political gamesmanship as opposed to
trying to get the information,” Holder told reporters as he
left a meeting with Issa in the Capitol.  “The ball is in their court,” Holder said. “They
rejected what I thought was an extraordinary offer on our
part.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Stern in  Washington  at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  