-- Italy Banks Waning Loan Quality Hurts Efforts on Capital
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-06-20T14:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/italy-banks-waning-loan-quality-hurts-efforts-to-boost-capital.html
Italian banks are struggling to
increase capital levels as fallout from the  European debt crisis 
and the country’s third recession in a decade force them to
boost provisions against rising bad loan levels.  Italian  corporate and household bad debt  totalled 109
billion euros ($138 billion) in April, an increase of 15 percent
from a year earlier, according to  Bank of Italy  data.
Impairments, excluding writedowns, rose to 58 billion euros from
50 billion euros.  “Asset quality and high non-performing loans are growing
problems for Italian banks, especially as capital levels and
internal capital generation do not provide sufficient buffers,”
Francesca Tondi, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a June
15 report. “The economy is already frail and credit is clearly
not flowing,” she said.  Italy ’s economy has lagged the euro region for the past
decade and is expected to contract 1.4 percent this year, the
European Commission estimates. The recession is reducing the
ability of borrowers to repay loans, forcing lenders to increase
provisions and hurting their profitability. The banks may need
as much as 42 billion euros of additional capital to boost
reserves for non-performing loans, according to Morgan Stanley’s
analysis.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 26 Italian banks last
month, citing weakened earnings and the poor economic outlook.  ‘Further Deterioration’  “We expect further deterioration as a result of the
recession,” Moody’s said in the May 14 report. “Growth in
problem loans will increase non-earning assets and likely keep
loan-loss provisioning needs high.”  Concern about the state of the Italian economy and the
country’s banks was heightened after the Spanish government on
June 9 said it would seek as much as 100 billion euros of aid to
shore up its lenders.  “Both Spanish and Italian banks are perceived negatively
because of the need of capital and increasing non-performing
loans,” said Louis de Fels, a Paris-based  money manager  at
Raymond James Asset Management International, which oversees $35
billion worldwide. “If I had to choose, I’d prefer the Italian
ones,” de Fels, who doesn’t own shares of Italian and Spanish
banks, said in an interview.  Cut Forecasts  Nomura Holdings Inc. and Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. are
among brokerages that cut their forecasts for 2012 earnings of
Italian banks. Nomura lowered its earnings-per-share estimates
last week by 10 percent on average over the next three years
partly “to factor in higher net provisions,” according to a
June 14 note.  Analysts have lowered 2012 median EPS estimates for Italy’s
13 biggest banks by 17 percent on average since the beginning of
the year, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, which has dropped 38
percent in Milan trading this year, is up 1.6 percent to 2.63
euros as of 9:45 a.m.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s No. 2 lender,
rose 1.4 percent to 1.04 euros, while  Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA (BMPS) , the No. 3 bank, which is down 22 percent since
January, gained 5.7 percent to 19.8 cents.  “Italian bank shares are currently at the mercy of macro
uncertainties,” Antonio Rizzo, a London-based analyst at
Barclays Plc, wrote in a note June 11.  Rising Unemployment  Credit-default swaps on UniCredit’s senior bonds rose to 532
basis points on June 19 from 292 on March 19, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Swaps tied to senior debt of Intesa rose
to 483 basis points from 272 in the period, while swaps on
senior bonds of Monte dei Paschi almost doubled to 662 basis
points.  Italian firms and families are struggling to repay their
debts and find new credit as unemployment rises and austerity
measures implemented by Prime Minister  Mario Monti  contribute to
the contraction. The jobless rate reached 10.2 percent in April,
the highest in almost 12 years.  Non-performing loans as a proportion of total lending
jumped to 5.4 percent in March, up from 3 percent in June 2008,
according to  Italian Banking Association  data.  The euro region’s debt crisis has already pushed at least
eight member states into recession as governments cut
expenditures and raise taxes to reduce deficits. European
economic confidence slumped to the lowest in more than two years
in May and manufacturing and services output dropped for a
fourth straight month.  Sovereign Risk  The yield on  Italy’s 10-year bond  is down 3 basis points,
leaving the difference with comparable German bonds at 433 basis
points.  Italy has 2 trillion euros of debt, more as a share of its
economy than any developed nation other than Greece and  Japan .
As foreign investors retreat, Italian banks are increasing their
exposure to domestic sovereign risk. Maria Cannata, the
country’s debt agency head, said yesterday that foreign holdings
of Italian debt had dropped to 45 percent and the Treasury would
like to see it at 50 percent.  Lenders purchases of the country’s  government bonds  rose to
a record in April, making their fate more tied to the financial
strength of the government. Domestic banks boosted  holdings of
the bonds  by about 85 billion euros this year to 295 billion
euros billion euros.  Italy’s top five lenders had a capital shortfall of 15.4
billion euros at the end of September according to the EBA’s
second round of stress tests released in December which included
the value of sovereign bond holdings through the end of the
third quarter.  Higher Yields  Italian banks borrowed more than 255 billion euros from the
 European Central Bank  in two auctions of three-year loans
beginning in December, paying a 1 percent interest rate. They
are investing the funds in short-term government bonds that
offer higher yields.  “If confidence is not restored and capital flight not
reversed, this trend will likely continue, and the banks’
reliance on central bank funding will have to increase,” Pedro Fonseca, a Berenberg Bank analyst, said in a May 29 report.  Still, the risk of an Italian default is remote, he said,
and “the banks’ funding pressures are manageable.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  