-- Italy Home Sales Fall Most on Record Amid Recession
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-06-19T15:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/italy-home-sales-fall-most-on-record-amid-recession.html
Home sales in  Italy  fell the most in
at least eight years in the first quarter as real estate owners
in the recession-hit country faced the prospect of a new
property tax.  With about 110,000 transactions in the three months through
March, home sales declined 20 percent from a year earlier, the
 Finance Ministry ’s Agenzia del Territorio said in a  report 
posted on its website today. That was the biggest drop since
data collection began in 2004. Total sales fell an annual 18
percent.  The decline was “mainly driven” by the recession, the
agency said in today’s report, while a new property tax that
began to influence buyers in the first quarter “won’t be an
incentive for the market.”  Italy expects to raise about 21 billion euros ($26.6
billion) from a new levy that was approved in December, Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s office  said  May 18. The so-called IMU
tax, whose payment is due for the first time this month, marked
the return of taxation on primary residences after four years.
The euro region’s third-biggest  economy  entered its fourth
recession in a decade in the fourth quarter of 2011.  ‘Even Worse Performance’  “Given the overall level of taxation and the economic
conditions, I am actually surprised that there were still some
100,000 houses sold in the first quarter,” Mario Breglia,
chairman of real-estate research firm Scenari Immobiliari, said
in a phone interview. “Looking at the latest three months, we
expect an even worse performance.”  Total real-estate sales rose in both the third and the
fourth quarters of 2011 at annual rates of 1.6 percent and 0.4
percent, respectively.  Today’s report shows a “marked decrease” in sales both in
small towns and the country’s eight largest cities, the agency
said in the statement. “That’s an abrupt reversal from the
upward trend” in the second half of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  