-- Itochu Mirrors Xstrata in Trader to Miner Move, Seeks Copper
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-06-19T07:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/itochu-mirrors-xstrata-in-trader-to-miner-shift-seeks-copper.html
Itochu Corp. (8001) ,  Japan ’s third-biggest
trader, is looking for copper mines in the  Philippines  and the
Pacific rim, seeking to transform itself into a mine operator
and beat competition for resources from China and India.  “We’re veering in the direction of becoming a mining
company,” Satoshi Kondo, the head of  Itochu Mineral Resources
Development Corp. , said in an interview in  Tokyo . “We’ve
decided on a goal of becoming like Xstrata Plc, gradually
building in size.”  Japan’s trading houses, which funded mines operated by the
world’s biggest mineral producers through buying minority stakes
over the past five decades, are no longer being offered a share
in projects as high commodity prices drive record profits for
companies such as BHP Billiton Ltd. Asian buyers outlaid $50
billion on mining acquisitions this year, the busiest start for
at least 12 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Itochu’s Kondo said he’s inspired by  Xstrata. (XTA)  The Zug,
Switzerland-based company built itself through acquisitions to
become the world’s largest thermal coal exporter after being
split off from its trading company parent in 1999. That parent,
now called  Glencore International Plc. (GLEN) , is seeking to buy back
Xstrata in a deal that values the company at 27.6 billion pounds
($43.3 billion).  “If you compare us with Xstrata today it’s like a dwarf
and a giant,” said Kondo, who was a mining specialist for the
Japanese government for 29 years. “Today, if you want mining
assets, you need to go and get them yourself.”  All-Share Deal  Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore, which owns about 34
percent of Xstrata, agreed in February to an all-share
combination to create the world’s fourth-biggest miner and cut
annual costs by about $500 million.  Kondo joined Itochu  Mineral Resources  four years ago as its
parent trading company sought to create a unit that could invest
in metal exploration and hire mining specialists, a move Kondo
said was unique among Japan’s traders. Earlier, Itochu would tie
up with mining companies including  BHP (BHP)  and avoid the technical
side of operations, he said.  Kondo’s unit has invested in three deposits, including the
Platreef platinum and nickel project of billionaire Robert Friedland’s Ivanplats Ltd. Itochu paid $280 million last year to
raise its stake in the South African project to 10 percent from
2 percent.  “In future, we’ll buy companies in their entirety and also
aim to work as a mining company in our own right,” Kondo said.
“We don’t quite have the manpower now, but we’ll try hard to
reach that level, developing mines jointly as a strategic
partner and not just a money supplier.”  Bigger Stakes  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  Chief Executive Officer Ken Kobayashi said
in April he is no longer interested in buying stakes of less
than 10 percent in assets. Japan’s biggest trader paid Anglo
American Plc. $5.39 billion for 24.5 percent of a Chilean copper
unit in November.  Sojitz Corp. (2768)  in 2010 became Japan’s first company to run a
 coal mine  in Australia. The Tokyo-based trader is seeking more
mines in Australia,  Indonesia ,  Russia  and Mongolia and has set
up a dedicated unit to manage these operations, Masaaki Bito,
the head of Sojitz’s coal unit, said last week.  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , the least resource-reliant of Japan’s six
major trading companies, took over full ownership of the San
Cristobal zinc and silver mine in  Bolivia  in 2009 after partner
Apex Silver Mines Ltd. filed for bankruptcy.  Armed With Cash  Japanese traders, armed with their biggest cash piles in
more than 15 years and a strengthening yen, risk becoming
financially weaker in trying to mirror the Glencore and Xstrata
model, said Benoit Descourtieux, president of OP Investment
Management Ltd., which invests in stocks of Japanese traders
among other assets. Four of Japan’s top six traders posted
 record profits  last year.  “If they follow Glencore, they may be less attractive or
more vulnerable,” Descourtieux said by phone in  Hong Kong .
“The Japanese are very good at being minority investors. Are
they good at being a majority shareholder in foreign firms? It’s
going to be a test.”  Marubeni Corp., Japan’s biggest agricultural trader, agreed
to pay $3.6 billion in cash and take on $2 billion of debt to
buy all of U.S. grain merchandiser Gavilon Group LLC last month
ahead of rivals including Glencore and Mitsubishi. The deal was
the biggest for Marubeni and prompted  Standard & Poor’s  to
revise Marubeni’s credit outlook to “negative.”  Record Profit  The deal shows that the traders, once the “import engines
for corporate-industrial Japan,” are becoming principal owners
and operators of assets, said Nobuhisa Ishizuka, partner with
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, which advised  Marubeni
Corp. (8002)  on the Gavilon purchase.  Glencore has dropped 38 percent since its initial public
offering in May 2011. Itochu, which has about the same net debt
and four times as much cash as the Swiss trader, has declined
6.6 percent in that time to 803 yen at today’s close in Tokyo.  Itochu, Japan’s second-largest trader of  iron ore , posted a
record profit of 300.5 billion yen ($3.8 billion) in the year
ended March 31, overtaking Sumitomo as the nation’s third-
largest trading house. Energy and mining profits tripled in the
past two years and accounted for 53 percent of earnings.  Itochu Mineral Resources will pursue rare-earth deposits
close to generating cash, early-stage copper projects, and
platinum group metals, among other minerals, Kondo said.  ‘Snatched Up’  “Good assets globally are being snatched up” with
competition for advanced-stage copper assets particularly
severe, he said.  One way to secure the material that China and India need to
feed their growing urbanization is for Itochu to buy into a
project at an earlier stage, he said, saying that the Pacific
rim, the Philippines and Australia are on his radar.  “It’ll take a while for them to compete with the majors,”
said Julie Tay, an investment manager for Asian equities at the
Scottish Investment Trust Plc, which manages about $1 billion in
assets. “It’ll be some time before this move figures in a
significant way on their bottom line.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  