-- Mittal Doesn’t See Return to Pre-Crisis Usage ‘Anytime Soon’
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-06-19T20:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/mittal-doesn-t-see-return-to-pre-crisis-usage-anytime-soon-1-.html
ArcelorMittal (MT)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  said steel demand won’t recover
“soon” to levels seen before the financial crisis.  ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, is adjusting
output to meet customer requirements, he said today in an
interview. Mittal, 62, declined to comment on possible closures.  “I don’t believe we’ll return to pre-crisis level of
demand anytime soon,” he said in New York after speaking at the
Steel Success Strategies conference.  ArcelorMittal has slumped 43 percent in the past year after
steel prices declined and demand dropped in  Europe  amid the
region’s debt crisis. The Luxembourg-based company has shuttered
or idled plants in the country and in Belgium, Spain,  France  in
the past nine months.  European steel-plant shutdowns are inevitable as the
region’s demand in a “normal market” is as much as 160 million
metric tons while it has a production capacity of 210 million
tons, industry lobby group Eurofer said last week.  Global steel use will rise 3.6 percent this year, less than
2010’s 5.6 percent gain, as European demand contracts and
Chinese use slows, the World Steel Association said April 27.  New supplies of coal are exerting “tremendous pressure”
on the price of the commodity, Mittal also said.  “Even in 2008, we didn’t have a short supply of coal,” he
said.  The price of low-volatility metallurgical coal, a raw
material used in steelmaking, has dropped 33 percent to $210.50
a ton over the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. ArcelorMittal is among steelmakers who mine some of
their own coal and iron ore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in  New York  at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  