-- Living With Oil Rig Workers Seen Aiding U.S. Inspectors
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-19T19:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/living-with-oil-rig-workers-seen-aiding-u-s-offshore-inspectors.html
Oil-drilling inspectors would gain
insight into safety practices by flying to  Gulf of Mexico  rigs
on helicopters leased by regulated companies and living for a
time with workers, the National Research Council said in report.  The  Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement  also
should hire more capable employees, increase training and charge
companies a fee to cover costs for stricter oversight, the
council recommended.  Extended rig visits would let inspectors observe the
culture beyond “obvious violations” such as loose handrails or
corroded walkways, the council said in a study for the Interior
Department unit, also known as BSEE. Agency inspectors are
barred from such travel on corporate aircraft to avoid the
appearance of a conflict, the report said.  “Other regulatory organizations use operator-furnished
transportation and accommodations with no adverse effect on the
integrity of the process,” the council said in the report by a
nine-member committee of academics, consultants and engineers.
“BSEE should consider doing the same to increase the quality of
its inspections and to reduce expenditures.”  ‘Cozy, Corrupt’  The agency sought the study from the nonprofit council in
an effort to improve regulation of oil and gas exploration in
federal waters after the  BP Plc (BP/)  Deepwater Horizon rig explosion
in April 2010. President  Barack Obama  revamped oversight to
eliminate what he called the “cozy and sometimes corrupt
relationship” between  oil companies  and regulators. As a
consequence, inspectors avoid traveling on helicopters leased by
companies or eat food provided by rig operators, a practice that
the National Research Council said might be modified.  “If it’s a matter of having an inspector out there for a
day or two, as opposed to having four or five different trips,
that could make sense,” Erik Milito, a director at the  American
Petroleum Institute , the largest trade group for the U.S. energy
industry, said today during a conference call.  The Interior bureau is committed to working with the
scientific community to enhance safety regulations, Nicholas
Pardi, a spokesman for the agency, said in an e-mail.  The  California State Lands Commission  said that travel to
oil installations helps its inspectors determine “what is
really going on,” according to the report.  Alaska Rigs  The  Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement  plans to
have an inspector on the  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s rigs drilling
in the Arctic, if the agency allows Shell to start exploration
this year.  “It’s a good idea to have the inspectors spend more time
on the rigs, and it doesn’t trouble me that they might travel
via an oil-company helicopter,” David Pettit, senior attorney
at the  Natural Resources Defense Council , said today in an e-
mail. The New York-based environmental group advocates for
increased safety measures to prevent disasters similar to BP’s
spill.  The National Research Council, the principal operating
agency of the  National Academy of Sciences  and the National
Academy of Engineering, also recommended that the department
create a whistle blower program so that employees can report
energy companies’ violations and inappropriate behavior of
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement personnel.  Interior Department already has an online and telephone
 hotline  for whistleblowers, agency spokesman Pardi said.  The Obama administration tomorrow  opens almost  39 million
acres in the Gulf of Mexico, near the site of BP disaster, for
oil and gas exploration. The Interior Department plans to unseal
bids for blocks of land off the coasts of  Louisiana ,  Mississippi 
and  Alabama  that may lead to production of more than 1 billion
barrels of oil.  The BP disaster, 40 miles (64 kilometers) off the Louisiana
coast, killed 11 workers, destroyed a $365 million rig and
spilled 4.9 million barrels of oil, the most ever in U.S.
waters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  