-- Ivy League, Big Ten to Combine Resources on Head-Injury Study
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-19T16:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/ivy-league-big-ten-to-combine-resources-on-head-injury-study.html
The  Ivy League  and Big Ten
conference are teaming up to study head injuries in sports.  The two conferences, along with the Big Ten Committee on
Institutional Cooperation, are sponsoring a joint study aimed at
improving head-injury assessment and prevention.  The program, announced today in e-mailed releases from both
National Collegiate Athletic Association conferences, will use
resources from the 20 combined schools and data from their over
18,000 athletes.  “We look forward to working with the Big Ten to continue
to study the effects of concussions and head injuries in
sport,” Shirley Tilghman, Ivy League Council of Presidents
chairwoman and  Princeton University  president, said in a
release. “By pooling our expertise and resources, our
institutions aim to significantly expand upon the research
needed to improve long-term concussion-prevention measures.”  Discussion about the education, prevention and treatment of
head injuries has become a popular topic in sports of all
levels, particularly in football. The  National Football League 
is facing lawsuits from more than 2,000 former players seeking
damages for head injuries sustained on the field, and the Pop
Warner youth football organization is limiting contact in
practices to reduce the risk of concussions.  The Ivy League and the Big Ten said they were already
independently working to research and address various aspects of
head injuries in athletics, including concussions.  Existing Studies  The Big Ten developed a concussion management plan in 2010
and last year conducted a Head Injury Summit with experts from
the fields of medicine, neurology, physics, engineering and
biological sciences. The Ivy League has a similar procedure for
allowing athletes to return to play following head injuries, and
has convened ad hoc committees in the past two years to review
concussions in football, soccer, lacrosse and ice hockey.  “The opportunity for collaborating on such a landmark
series of studies with the Ivy League is unprecedented in sports
medicine,” Dennis Molfese, Big Ten and CIC Research
Collaboration Director and the University of Nebraska Director
of the Center for Brain, Biology and Behavior, said in the
release. “This is a unique moment in the history of science.”  The Ivy League is an association of eight elite, Northeast
U.S. schools that have high academic standards and don’t provide
athletic scholarships. Founded in 1954 and based in Princeton,
 New Jersey , the conference sponsors 33 men’s and women’s sports
with more than 8,000 student athletes competing each year.  The Big Ten sponsors 298 teams at 12 member universities,
which provide over $136 million of athletic scholarship aid to
almost 10,000 students, according to the release. The conference
was formed in 1896 and is based in  Park Ridge ,  Illinois .  Brady Concerns  The father of New England Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady , a
two-time NFL Most Valuable Player and three-time Super Bowl
winner, is among the parents to express concern about children
playing football as more links to long-term effects of head
injuries are discovered.  Tom Brady Sr., who didn’t let his son play the sport until
high school, told  Yahoo Sports  last month that if he had to make
the same decision today, he’d be “ very hesitant ” about playing
football at all. Brady played at the  University of Michigan , a
Big Ten school.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  