-- Mixed Message From U.S. Aids Egyptian Coup
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-19T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/mixed-message-from-u-s-aids-egyptian-coup.html
Egyptians are scheduled to hear who
their first freely elected leader is Thursday, and he’s expected
to be the anti-establishment candidate from the Muslim
Brotherhood. How much power the new president will have is
another question altogether.  Egypt ’s transitional military rulers, in charge since the
toppling of dictator  Hosni Mubarak , who was on life support
after a stroke Tuesday, have slowed the march of democracy the
last 16 months. Last week, they went further to reverse
progress. The generals dismissed parliament when the high court,
staffed by judges from the deposed regime, ruled that elections
for a third of the seats had been flawed. The generals, who had
already reimposed martial law, then assigned legislative powers
and control over the budget to themselves and appointed a 100-
member assembly to write a new constitution that would determine
the new president’s powers. This assembly, presumably, is
designed to replace the one already named by parliament.  In other words, the generals effected a coup d’etat. They
felt empowered to take these actions because they have guns. Yet
their opponents possess something that can be just as potent:
electoral legitimacy. The Muslim Brotherhood, to which the
expected presidential winner Mohamed Mursi and a plurality (47
percent) of parliamentary members belong, rejects the idea that
the military council has the authority to dismiss parliament and
assume its powers.  That’s surely right and is why U.S. State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  was  careful to say , in response to
the generals’ announcement, that “if” there is a need for new
parliamentary elections, the U.S. hopes they will happen
swiftly. In his conversation with Egypt’s interim leader, Field Marshall Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta
wasn’t so prudent. According to the  official account  of the
conversation, Panetta spoke of the need to conduct new elections
as soon as possible, without any qualification.  Leaving the door open in this way treats an illegitimate
decree as a fait accompli. It also suggests that the U.S., like
the military council, is receptive to new elections because the
last time, Islamists did so well. If that was Panetta’s intent,
then it’s an impulse that he and the U.S.  must get over .
Democracy is going to bring Islamists to power in the Arab world
for now. The only way to stop that from happening in the short-
term is through repression, which breeds support for Islamists.
This, certainly, is the lesson of the Arab Spring.  The U.S. has a deep store of skepticism to overcome
concerning  its motives  in the  Middle East , particularly in
Egypt. The government can leave no room for ambiguity: it
supports democracy, and not just when it likes the result. If
the situation continues to unravel, then the prudent next step
is for the U.S. to consider suspending the $1.3 billion in
annual aid that it gives to Egypt’s military.  Muslim Brotherhood leaders say they intend to convene
parliament, despite the generals’ order that it should be
dissolved. Soldiers have been guarding the doors of the chamber,
and the council has threatened to prosecute anyone who enters.
The generals, however, have backed down before in the face of
popular pressure and international scorn. That’s one good thing
about trying to rule by decree -- you can always issue a
contradictory one.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a capital gains-corporate
income  tax deal ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Washington ’s other
 dysfunctional government ; Clive Crook on why the  European
Central Bank  must act;  Noah Feldman  on whether Egypt will be the
 next Algeria ;  Peter Orszag  on  mandatory voting  in the U.S.; Carl
Pope on the rise of  renewable energy  in  emerging markets .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 