-- Japanese Stock Futures Climb Amid Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-06-19T23:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/japanese-stock-futures-climb-amid-stimulus-speculation.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures rose as investors speculated central banks may announce
more stimulus measures to boost growth in the world’s largest
economies.  American Depositary Receipts  of  Kyocera Corp. (6971) , a Japanese
electronics maker that gets 14 percent of its sales in the U.S.,
climbed 1.1 percent. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, gained 1.2 percent as metals prices
rose.  Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. (8766) , Japan’s second-biggest nonlife
insurer, may be active after saying it plans to reduce its
cross-shareholdings by 100 billion yen ($1.27 billion) this
fiscal year.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,695 in Chicago yesterday, up from 8,650 in
 Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,700 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index advanced 0.6 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index was
little changed in Wellington.  “There will be more measures taken by central banks to
stimulate the economy,” said  Daphne Roth , Singapore-based head
of Asian equity research at ABN Amro Private Banking, where she
helps oversee about $207 billion. “China also has more
flexibility to ease monetary and fiscal policy.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
today. The gauge advanced 1 percent yesterday and closed at its
highest level in more than a month as analysts at JPMorgan Chase
& Co., Jefferies & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. speculated
the  Federal Reserve  will move to spur growth.  Operation Twist  Signs of slowing growth amid Europe’s debt crisis could
mean the Fed, which began a two-day meeting yesterday, will
extend its so-called Operation Twist, according to JPMorgan and
Jefferies. The program involves selling short-term debt and
buying longer-term bonds. A more aggressive response could be
warranted if the Fed sees high costs in an economic slowdown.  The central bank may expand its balance sheet, extend
Operation Twist and/or lengthen its short-term interest rate
guidance beyond late 2014, Goldman Sachs Chief Economist Jan
Hatzius wrote yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific (MXAP)  lost 10 percent through yesterday
from this year’s highest level in February amid signs economic
growth was slowing as Europe struggled to contain its debt
crisis. This left the gauge trading at 1.1 times book value,
compared with 2.1 times for the S&P 500 and 1.4 times for the
Stoxx 600, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A number
below one means companies can be bought for less than value of
their assets.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
climbed 1.3 percent yesterday, its biggest gain since February.  The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York jumped 1.8 percent yesterday to
94.09, the highest level since May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  