-- JPMorgan Hedges Were Really Prop Trades, Whitney Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-06-19T18:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/jpmorgan-hedges-were-really-prop-trades-whitney-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s $2 billion
trading loss stemmed from profit-seeking bets rather than hedges
meant to mitigate loan losses, as Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has described them, banking analyst Meredith Whitney said.  “It’s very hard to argue that what Jamie Dimon is now on
the Hill for is a hedge,” Whitney said today in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt as the bank chief testified at a hearing of the House
Financial Services Committee in Washington. “A credit hedge in
banking should be a loan-loss provision, plain and simple.
Anything else is a proprietary bet.”  Dimon has described the loss as stemming from a hedge that
“morphed into something I can’t justify.” He has publicly
opposed the so-called Volcker rule, a Dodd-Frank Act provision
meant to limit deposit-taking lenders from making proprietary
trades, or bets with their own money.  “Of the large banks, JPMorgan has the lowest loan-to-
deposit ratio,” said Whitney, CEO of  Meredith Whitney  Advisory
Group LLC. “It didn’t frankly seem to bother anyone there
because they clearly were making money in this trading book.”  Whitney, 42, also disputed Dimon’s claim that bank
regulation may curb lending. Dimon, 56, confronted Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  at a public forum last year,
blaming excessive regulation for slowing the U.S. economic
recovery.  “It stymies the velocity of money in the system, you have
to hold more capital,” Whitney said. “But in terms of lending,
absolutely not.”  Dimon’s performance at a Senate hearing last week went more
smoothly than Whitney expected, she said. The New York-based
bank’s shares rose 1.6 percent after his testimony last week and
advanced again today,  climbing  2.1 percent to $35.36 at 2:37
p.m. in  New York  trading.  “I was very surprised because it’s a very difficult trade
to explain,” she said. “He charms, he’s incredible. He gave
the senators a massage, they gave him a massage back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 