-- JPMorgan’s Risk Gauge Aggravated Trading Loss, Dimon Says
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2012-06-19T17:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/jpmorgan-s-risk-gauge-aggravated-trading-loss-dimon-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s decision to
change how it measures trading risk worsened rather than
triggered the company’s $2 billion loss, Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon  told Congress today.  “It may have aggravated what happened, I wouldn’t say it
was the cause of what happened,” Dimon told the House Financial
Services Committee during a hearing in  Washington .  Regulators are probing why JPMorgan changed the gauge
called value-at-risk, or VaR, for its chief investment office in
mid-January before  losses  began piling up on derivatives held by
the unit. Dimon, 56, said May 10 that the new VaR erroneously
pegged risk at about half the level of the old formula, making
the potential damage look smaller.  JPMorgan reported the figure in its April 13 earnings
statement without telling investors about the new formula. That
has caught the attention of regulators including Securities and
Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , who said today that
voluntary disclosures on trading risk in a news release will be
scrutinized as if they were reported in formal quarterly filings
where such information is usually published.  The measure “is not required to be disclosed in the
earnings release, but if you choose to speak to it, you must
speak truthfully and completely,” Schapiro, who turned 57
today, told the House panel.  VaR represents the maximum amount that traders would expect
to lose on 95 out of 100 trading days, according to  New York- 
based JPMorgan. It’s recalculated daily, and the quarterly
average is reported in securities filings.  Changing Average  The VaR at the CIO was reported as averaging $67 million in
a regulatory filing on April 13, the day JPMorgan posted first-
quarter results. When JPMorgan realized the new version was
flawed and reverted to the old model, it showed VaR averaged
$129 million and ended the quarter at $186 million.  The SEC is studying whether the bank met requirements for
disclosing how it calculated VaR, including “changes to key
model characteristics, assumptions and parameters,” Schapiro
said in  prepared remarks  for the hearing.  The new measurement was “implemented in January and did
effectively increase the amount of risk this unit was able to
take,” Dimon told a Senate hearing last week. While the change
coincided with derivatives trades that later proved to be
illiquid and prone to losses, Dimon said he didn’t believe the
change “was done for nefarious purposes.”  Timing of Change  Dimon said in prepared remarks for today’s hearing that the
chief investment office’s hedging strategy was “poorly
conceived and vetted,” and that traders at the unit “did not
have the requisite understanding of the risks they took.”  The chief investment office and an independent group began
trying to change the VaR model in June 2011, Dimon said during
today’s hearing. The changes were approved and put into use in
January, Dimon testified.  In April, Dimon called news reports about the dangers of
trading by his chief investment office “a complete tempest in a
teapot.” Schapiro, asked about the comment today, said it would
be viewed in the context of how VaR doubled when the bank
reverted to the old formula.  Dimon said today the change in January was made to improve
the gauge, and that when he made that comment in April, “we had
no reason to think it wasn’t a better model and didn’t better
reflect some of the risks that were being taken there.”  Dimon said during a CNBC interview on June 13 that he was
copied on an internal e-mail discussing the VaR model change
before it was made, and that he paid little attention to it.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in  New York  at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net  or @liqquidity on Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 