-- JPMorgan Risk Hidden by Reporting, Comptroller Curry Says
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-06-19T15:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/jpmorgan-risk-hidden-by-reporting-that-lacked-detail-curry-says.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  caught
regulators off guard with a trading loss of at least $2 billion
because the bank’s reporting lacked enough detail to raise any
alarm, the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency said.  “In hindsight, if the reporting were more robust or
granular, we believe we may have had an inkling of the size and
potential complexity and risk of the position,” Comptroller
 Thomas Curry  said today at a hearing of the House Financial
Services Committee in Washington.  Lawmakers are challenging regulators and JPMorgan Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  about a loss on  credit derivatives 
at the company’s chief investment office. Dimon told a Senate
panel last week that the trade, originally designed as a hedge
at the New York-based lender, “changed into something I cannot
publicly defend.”  Representative  Carolyn Maloney , the  New York  Democrat,
pressed Curry on whether the loss would prompt Curry to shift
more resources to London, where JPMorgan’s loss originated.
Curry said this month that his office has five examiners at the
JPMorgan’s London office and 65 at the bank’s headquarters.  “We will use our experience here and our review of
JPMorgan Chase to reevaluate the numbers and strength of
the personnel in our London office,” Curry said today. “We
also bring to bear in our targeted examinations and overall
supervision of the bank, the entire strength of the OCC in terms
of expertise and number of examiners, which are close to 2,500
individuals.”  Regulator’s Leverage  Curry said focusing on the five examiners in London “may
be misleading as to our ability to leverage our activities.”  Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat,
said the error at New York-based JPMorgan shows that regulatory
oversight of derivatives shouldn’t be weakened, as Dimon has
advocated.  “If in a very well-run bank, you can get this loss of
several billion dollars -- three and counting, we’re told -- in
a fairly short period of time, it’s an indication of the
problems with derivatives,” Frank said at today’s hearing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net  