-- Junk Bonds Supplant Loans as Returns Lure Cash: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-06-19T16:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/junk-bonds-supplant-loans-as-returns-lure-cash-credit-markets.html
Junk bonds  are outperforming
leveraged loans by the most since February, with inflows last
week breaking four straight periods of redemptions, as the notes
supplant bank debt in a refinancing wave.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II
bond index has returned 5.4 percent this year through June 15
compared with a 3.9 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA
Leveraged Loan 100  index . Cash investment in funds that buy
speculative-grade bonds has boosted the size of the market by 40
percent since early 2009 while leveraged loans outstanding have
contracted by 25 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co. research shows.  Buyers are favoring junk bonds over loans as economists
speculate the  Federal Reserve  may start a fourth round of
economic stimulus with  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis
escalating. Since 2009, about $199 billion of high-yield bond
offerings have gone toward replacing loans, with maturities tied
to leveraged buyouts cut by 60 percent, according to JPMorgan.  “Quality is about more than seniority; it’s about the
composition of the companies in the market,” said Gershon Distenfeld, director of high-yield credit at AllianceBernstein
LP, which oversees about $20 billion of speculative-grade debt.
“High yield has had a really good run here.”  The 1.5 percentage-point gap between returns on high-yield
bonds and leveraged loans has almost doubled from 0.8 percentage
point at the end of March, according to data from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch and S&P/LSTA. The difference was 1.6
percentage points as of Feb. 29.  Outflow Reverses  Speculative-grade bond funds reported inflows of $838
million in the week ended June 13, compared with a $2.8 billion
outflow in the prior period, bringing redemptions to $5.4
billion over the four weeks, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global. That compares with a $187
million outflow from leveraged loan funds last week.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. fell, with the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declining by 3 basis points to a mid-price of 116.2 basis points
as of 12:36 p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  That’s the lowest level on an intra-day basis since May 29
for the index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  General Electric  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, fell 0.76 basis point to 25.18 basis points
as of 12:35 p.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when they seek
the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of  General Electric Co. (GE)  are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
77 trades of $1 million or more as of 12:36 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The Fed’s outlook that benchmark  interest rates  will hold
near zero until at least late 2014 is pushing investors toward
riskier assets, causing yields on speculative-grade bonds to
drop to as low as 7.47 percent on May 4 from this year’s high of
8.47 percent on Jan. 3, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. Yields rose to 8.05 percent as of June 15.  Investors have funneled $17.6 billion into junk bond funds
this year, 13 percent more than in all of last year, JPMorgan
said in a June 15 report. That compares with leveraged-loan
inflows of $1.7 billion, or 12 percent of the total for all of
2011.  ‘Equities Substitute’  “Money will continue to get pushed into this space,” said
Jeffrey Hussey, the global chief investment officer of fixed
income at Seattle-based Russell Investments. “There’s an
interesting case in high-yield. That’s why we continue to see
money pour in, sort of as an equities substitute.”  Junk-rated companies have defaulted at a pace below 3
percent for the past 16 months ended April 30, the longest such
stretch since before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008 caused a credit seizure, S&P data show.  A Moody’s index measuring liquidity stress for the riskiest
borrowers is holding at May’s record low of 3.3 percent.  “Liquidity levels remain healthy for U.S. speculative-
grade corporations even as threats arise from around the
globe,” according to a June 15 report by Moody’s analysts led
by Tom Marshella.  ‘Cautious Approach’  “Given companies’ ongoing cautious approach to liquidity,
a downturn would need to be severe and prolonged to use up the
buffer provided by the current healthy liquidity position of
high-yield corporates,” the analysts wrote.  Companies have sold $139.9 billion of high-yield debt this
year following $243.9 billion of offerings in 2011 and a record
$287.7 billion in 2010, Bloomberg data show. Leveraged-loan
issuance has totaled $265 billion following last year’s $607.4
billion, according to the data.  About 65 percent of all junk bond and loan offerings from
the past three years have been used to pay back existing debt,
JPMorgan analysts led by  Peter Acciavatti  wrote in the June 15
report. The volume of leveraged buyout-related debentures
maturing through 2015 has been reduced by $174 billion since the
beginning of 2009, with 78 percent of that being pushed out to
2018 or later, they wrote.  Loan Contraction  Since the end of November, the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch high-yield bond index has returned 8 percent through June
15, versus a 4.6 percent gain on the S&P/LSTA index. While the
junk-bond market has expanded by about $378 billion since 2009,
institutional loans outstanding have contracted by $194 billion,
JPMorgan research shows.  “A year or two ago, people were afraid that rates were
going to rise,” Distenfeld said. “People were throwing a lot
of money at loan funds.”  After the recent returns for junk bonds, he said, “it’s
understandable that investors may want to take some risk off the
table. The way to do that is to buy a less-aggressive high-yield
fund.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  