-- Kenya Shilling Rises to Month-High, Kenya Receives Loan Tranche
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-06-19T15:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/kenya-shilling-rises-to-month-high-kenya-receives-loan-tranche.html
Kenya ’s shilling rose for a fifth
day to the highest in more than a month as the government was
said to receive the remainder of a loan and the central bank
reduced  money supply  through its term-deposit auctions.  The currency of  East Africa ’s largest economy appreciated
0.3 percent to close at 84.10 per dollar, its strongest level
since May 15, in the capital Nairobi.  “Kenya’s shilling rallied against the dollar helped by
receipt of a second tranche of the government’s $600 million
syndicated loan from international lenders to fund a range of
infrastructure projects and tight liquidity,” Nairobi-based  NIC
Bank Ltd. (NICB) , said in a note to clients.  Kenya’s government signed a $600 million two-year loan on
May 15, with three foreign banks that will be repaid at an
interest rate of 475 basis points above the London interbank
offered rate. The nation has received the first $240 million,
the  Finance Ministry  said June 5.  “The receipt of the second tranche of $360 million is
expected to support the foreign-exchange reserves and ease
pressure on the shilling as dollar demand will easily be met,”
John Muli, a dealer with Nairobi-based African Banking Corp.,
said in a phone interview.  The central bank accepted 1 billion shillings ($11.9
million) of bids for 28-day term-auction deposits, paying a
weighted average rate of 18 percent, a central bank official who
asked not to be named in line with policy said. It received bids
of 3.15 billion shillings, the official said.  The bank accepted 5 billion shillings in  repurchase
agreements  and term-auction deposits yesterday. The shilling has
gained 1.1 percent this year, the best performer among the
African currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Liquidity Management’  The bank re-introduced term-auction deposits as a
“liquidity management” measure on June 5, according to a
statement on its website. The deposits offer maturities of 14,
21 and 28 days and are paid back with interest, while the tenor
of repos is typically seven days or less and the securities are
offered at a discounted yield, according to a research note from
Nairobi-based Sterling Capital Ltd e-mailed June 11.  Uganda ’s shilling gained less than 0.1 percent to close at
2,485 per dollar, while Tanzania’s currency appreciated for a
third day, gaining less than 0.1 percent to close at 1,582 per
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  