-- KKR Finds LBO Boom Salvation in U.K. Sale to Walgreen
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y ,   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-06-20T15:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/kkr-finds-lbo-boom-salvation-in-u-k-sale-to-walgreen.html
(Corrects value relative to cost of KKR’s most recent
European fund in 11th paragraph of story published yesterday.)  KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , is poised to salvage a
winning investment from last decade’s leveraged-buyout boom.  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  agreed today to buy 45 percent of Alliance
Boots GmbH for $6.7 billion, valuing KKR’s stake in the company
at more than twice its original equity investment. KKR bought a
third of Alliance Boots, the largest drugstore chain in the
U.K., in 2007. Walgreen has the option to buy the rest of
company within three years.  KKR was the most active buyer during the LBO frenzy from
2005 to 2007, announcing deals valued at $220 billion, including
three of the 10 biggest transactions, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The New York-based firm, Alliance Boots Chairman
Stefano Pessina and other investors agreed to acquire the
company for 11.1 billion pounds ($22.2 billion) in April 2007,
the biggest European LBO on record.  “With the benefit of hindsight, we paid a big price for
Alliance, but we genuinely believed in the potential of the
business,” Dominic Murphy, a KKR partner, said in a telephone
interview today. “When we were raising equity for the deal, I
told investors there was the IPO exit route obviously, but I
said we could also do a strategic deal. It was there in the
beginning.”  The buyout market froze within months of the Alliance
transaction. In July 2007, Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and six other banks that had promised to finance the
acquisition had to pull plans to sell the debt to investors.
Losses on U.S. subprime home loans had climbed and investor
confidence in corporate debt was deteriorating, triggering a
global credit crisis.  Shopping Spree  KKR has a long history of buying retail and consumer
companies. In 2006 and 2007, the firm snapped up Toys “R” Us
and  Dollar General (DG)  Corp. for $7.5 billion and $7.3 billion,
respectively. KKR’s plan to sell Toys “R” Us through an
initial public offering has languished amid uncertain  capital
markets . The toy store chain filed for an IPO in May 2010.  KKR took Dollar General public on the New York Stock
Exchange in 2009, selling shares in the Goodlettesville,
Tennessee-based discount retailer for $21 apiece. Shares held by
KKR and its co-investors were valued at $8.76 in the original
transaction. KKR has steadily sold down its interest through
secondary offerings as Dollar General stock has gained. The
shares closed today at $52.20.  Walgreen, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , has an option to
buy the remaining 55 percent of Zug, Switzerland-based Alliance
Boots during the six months beginning 2 1/2 years from when the
deal closes, the companies said today in a statement.  Cash Back  In the 2007 takeover, KKR funds paid about 1.22 billion
pounds in cash, along with some debt, to acquire a third of
Alliance Boots’ shares, KKR said. Walgreen said today it will
pay 1.2 billion pounds to KKR and 7 million shares of Walgreen
common valued at 140 million pounds.  While KKR is getting most of its original investment back,
the rest of its return depends on whether Walgreen decides to
exercise its option. At the current share price, the return
would be 2.7 times KKR’s investment in pounds, and 2.2 times in
dollars, Murphy said.  Early Success  KKR saw early success in  Europe . Its first dedicated
European fund, started in 1999, is valued at almost three times
its original cost, according to KKR’s most recent quarterly
earnings report. Its second fund, from 2005, is valued just
below cost. The most recent fund, started in 2008, is valued
slightly above cost, according to the report.  Through its history, including transactions prior to having
dedicated European funds, KKR has delivered returns of about 3.3
times invested capital on deals in the region, according to an
investor presentation obtained by Bloomberg News.  The firm and its investors made 4.1 times their money on
Legrand SA, the world’s largest maker of wiring devices, and a
3.3 multiple on cash register maker Wincor Nixdorf AG, according
to the presentation.  Some European takeovers by KKR have struggled. The firm
values its investment in phone-book publisher  PagesJaunes Groupe (PAJ) 
SA at zero and its stake in broadcaster ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG
at less than 50 percent of the cost.  Private-equity firms pool money from pensions, endowments
and sovereign wealth funds and pair it with debt to fund
takeovers. They typically own companies for about five years
before selling them through public offerings or to larger
companies in order to reap profits to distribute to their
original investors.  Raising Capital  Those sales, or exits, are critical in persuading investors
to commit money to subsequent funds. KKR is raising its 11th
North American buyout fund, with a target of about $10 billion.  The Alliance Boots deal with Walgreen was 18 months in the
making, KKR’s Murphy said. Alliance Boots’ Pessina said in an
interview earlier this year that he was in search of a
“transformational” merger rather than an IPO.  “Generating liquidity on the largest-ever European
private-equity transaction at a time of significant economic
disruption is a tremendous achievement by KKR,” said James
Pitt, a partner at Lexington Partners, which invested alongside
KKR in Alliance Boots.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  