-- Kodak Sues Apple in Bid to Quash Claims Over Patents
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-19T18:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/kodak-sues-apple-in-bid-to-quash-claims-over-patents.html
Apple Inc. was sued by  Eastman Kodak
Co. (EKDKQ)  over ownership of patents that Kodak is planning to sell as
part of its bankruptcy restructuring.  Apple is trying to “delay and derail” Kodak’s effort to
sell a collection of patents related to digital imaging, Kodak
said in a complaint filed yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Manhattan. Apple is claiming ownership of 10 patents, according
to Kodak.  “Apple’s strategy has been to use its substantial cash
position to delay as long as possible the payment of royalties
to Kodak and to interfere” with an auction planned for August,
Kodak said.  The complaint comes about a week after U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Allan Gropper rejected Kodak’s request for an order that
Apple has no interest in the patents. The judge said the dispute
could be resolved through an adversary proceeding. Kodak, based
in Rochester,  New York , said it needed the order for the sale,
which it calls “critical” to its reorganization.  Kodak has sought court approval to auction patents related
to the capture, manipulation and sharing of digital images.
Apple is a potential purchaser, and is claiming ownership as “a
ploy” to prevent Kodak from obtaining a fair price for its
assets, Kodak said in court papers.  Appropriate Forum  Apple spokeswoman  Kristin Huguet  declined to comment. The
Cupertino, California-based company has sought to move the
dispute with Kodak out of  bankruptcy court  to U.S. District
Court in Manhattan, which Apple says is the more appropriate
forum.  In its complaint, Kodak is seeking a court order declaring
Apple has no interest in the 10 patents and an injunction
barring Apple from asserting ownership.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).
The adversary proceeding is Eastman Kodak Co. v.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , 12-
01720, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The district court case is In re Eastman Kodak Co.,
12-04444, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at +1-
   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 