-- Korea Corporate Yield Premium Set to Rebound, UBS Hana Says
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-06-20T03:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/korean-corporate-yield-premium-set-to-rebound-ubs-hana-predicts.html
A rally in South  Korea ’s corporate
debt is drawing to an end after yields on the securities fell to
the lowest level in five years relative to  government bonds ,
according to  UBS Hana Asset Management Co.   The premium investors demand to hold three-year AA bonds
instead of similar-maturity sovereign notes was 41 basis points
on May 29, down 26 basis points from the start of the year and
the lowest since September 2007, according to data compiled by
Koscom Corp. The gap widened to 46 basis points on June 18 and
may increase a further 20 basis points this year, according to
Hwang Jae Hong, who oversees 12 trillion won ($10.4 billion) as
head of fixed income at UBS Hana, a Seoul-based joint venture
between  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Hana Financial Group.  “Company bonds gained from October as, with the central
bank holding rates, investors didn’t see much opportunity in
sovereign bonds,” Hwang said in a June 18 interview in Seoul.
“There should now be a technical widening in corporate spreads
with investors starting to reap gains, although Korean
companies’ fundamentals are still strong.”  Kia Motors Corp.,  South Korea ’s second-largest carmaker,
reported a first-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates, and
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  had its highest earnings in at least two
years after beating Apple Inc. and Nokia Oyj in smartphone sales.
The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2012 economic growth
forecast for the nation last week to 3.25 percent from 3.5
percent and said the central bank has room to cut interest rates
should growth weaken.  Rate Outlook  The Bank of Korea left its  benchmark interest rate  at 3.25
percent for a 12th month at a June 8 meeting, citing increasing
risks to growth stemming from  Europe ’s debt crisis. Governor Kim
Choong Soo said after the policy review that the board discussed
“follow-up measures” in preparation for changes in the
economic situation, which spurred some investors to bet that the
central bank will lower borrowing costs in July.  Hwang forecast the  Bank of Korea  will keep interest rates
unchanged for the rest of this year.  “Conditions for a benchmark-rate cut would be that
Europe’s crisis deteriorates, spreading chaos in the financial
market and harming the  U.S. economy  as well,” he said. UBS Hana
has had an “overweight” position in corporate bonds for the
past year, though there are no plans to boost these holdings
further, Hwang said.  Sliding Yields  The average yield on South Korea’s corporate debt rated AA
dropped 28 basis points this quarter to 3.76 percent, according
to Koscom, which collates price data from Korea Exchange Inc.,
Korea Financial Investment Association and three credit-rating
companies. AA is the third highest of 10 investment grades.  Kia Motors (000270)  is rated AA at Korea Investors Service and the
yield on its 4.18 percent bonds due November 2017 increased one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, this month to 3.82
percent as of June 19, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That followed declines of 18 basis points in May and 19 basis
points in April.  “With company note yields approaching record lows and
Europe’s debt crisis heightening financial market volatility,
South Korea’s corporate spreads will widen for the next couple
of months,” Kim Ki Myung, a Seoul-based credit analyst for
Korea Investment & Securities Co., the second-biggest
underwriter for South Korean corporate bonds this year, said in
a phone interview on June 19. “Still, there is plenty of money
waiting to invest in these securities for better yields, so the
widening of spreads will be limited.”  The  yield  on South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds fell
23 basis points this quarter to 3.32 percent on June 20,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It may rebound to
around 3.60 percent this year as speculation eases that the
central bank will lower interest rates, according to Hwang.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  