-- KPN Races Against Clock to Prevent Slim Offer Acceptances
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-06-20T07:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/kpn-chief-races-against-clock-to-stop-investors-selling-to-slim.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN)  Chief Executive Officer
Eelco Blok is running out of time to persuade shareholders to
ignore a 2.6 billion-euro ($3.3 billion) offer for a stake in
the Dutch phone company by  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB. (AMXL)   KPN’s stock hasn’t closed higher than 8 euros since America
Movil bid at that price last month for as much as a 27.7 percent
stake. Slim’s company has been buying KPN shares in the market,
accumulating an 8.5 percent holding by June 18. Blok and Chief
Financial Officer Eric Hageman have been visiting investors to
ask them not to tender their shares as the offer undervalues the
company, said Maryse Ducheine, a KPN spokeswoman.  To defend itself from the bid, KPN has put its German E-
Plus unit under review and is considering the future of its BASE
mobile-phone division in  Belgium . While  America Movil  raises the
pressure by preparing an investor call tomorrow to lay out its
European strategy, KPN must also issue a position statement on
the offer this week, before the bid closes on June 27.  KPN’s review is “completely reactionary and completely
driven by the approach from Slim,” said Will Draper, an analyst
at Espirito Santo in London. “KPN is only doing it because they
are being forced to do it -- they could have done it for the
last eight years.”  KPN shares  have dropped 35 percent since Blok took the helm
in April last year. They fell 0.4 percent to 7.91 euros as of
9:21 a.m. in Amsterdam.  Telekom Austria  KPN has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. to help it evaluate options.  An independent foundation has the responsibility for
defending KPN “from influences that may threaten the
continuity, independence and identity” of the company,
according to KPN’s annual report. If the foundation’s board sees
a threat, it may invoke an option to acquire from KPN Class B
preference stock, which carries voting rights.  “We do not expect the foundation to exercise  call options 
given that America Movil’s partial bid is not an effective
change in control,” Jeffrey Vonk, an analyst at ING, wrote in a
note dated June 19.  Slim’s America Movil is establishing footholds in  Europe  as
the continent’s debt crisis hurts the value of phone companies
in the region. Last week, America Movil agreed to buy 21 percent
in  Telekom Austria  AG from investor Ronny Pecik.  “It’s shown investors he means business,” Draper said.
“There’s a growing belief that Slim is here to stay.”  Voting Rights  Among options being considered, KPN and  Spain ’s  Telefonica
SA (TEF)  are evaluating ways to merge their German units, a move that
would create the country’s biggest mobile-phone operator by
customers, people with knowledge of the matter said this month.  “The problem is that time is playing against management,”
said Javier Borrachero, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.
“The best way to try to convince shareholders that 8 euros is
not the best offer is to do something in  Germany ,” he said.
“But it seems too late for that.”  Blok’s attempts to negotiate fell short, said America
Movil. His proposal to restrict the  voting rights  of Slim’s
company was immediately rejected.  “Of all the things that we have talked about with KPN,
that was the only one we couldn’t accept, to break with the
sacred principle of one share one vote,” America Movil Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Garcia-Moreno said in a June 15
interview.  Job Cuts  Blok has accelerated job cuts and plans to eliminate as
many as 5,000 positions in the Netherlands by the end of 2013,
when KPN has a “tough but achievable” goal of cutting costs at
headquarters by 30 percent to 40 percent, it said in April.  Phone companies are changing their business models as voice
revenue is hurt because customers increasingly communicate with
calling software such as Skype or the WhatsApp messaging
technology on smartphones.  KPN, the former phone monopoly in the Netherlands and the
largest operator in the country, said in January that 2012 will
be a transition period after two years of declining net income,
as it accelerates Dutch investments to ensure profits. The
company predicted lower profit and cash flow this year and said
it won’t buy back shares in 2012 after last year’s 1-billion
euro program.  “What I don’t understand is why they haven’t decided to
welcome America Movil as a strategic shareholder,” Jos Versteeg, an analyst at Theodoor Gilissen said. “There is no
one who can explain to me when growth will return at KPN,” said
Versteeg. “The problem with Blok is that he hasn’t come up with
a good plan since he took the helm.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  