-- KraussMaffei Said to Hire Goldman Sachs to Explore Sale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-06-19T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/kraussmaffei-said-to-hire-goldman-sachs-to-explore-sale.html
KraussMaffei Group, the German maker
of machinery for processing plastics that is owned by Madison
 Capital Partners , is working with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to
find a buyer, people familiar with the process said.  The company, which employs 3,900 and was previously owned
by KKR & Co. and  Siemens AG (SIE) , may fetch as much as 700 million
euros ($883 million) based on an initial assessment, said two of
the people, who asked not to be identified because the plans are
private. Information has been sent out to potential bidders,
which include private equity firms and trade buyers, they said.  Formerly known as MPM Mannesmann Plastics Machinery GmbH,
 KraussMaffei  was sold to Madison in 2006, according to the
German company’s website. The machinery maker had earnings
before tax, interest, depreciation and amortization of 71
million euros and sales of 950 million euros in the year ending
Sept. 30, 2007, the last year the Munich-based company disclosed
figures.  German takeovers are on track to miss last year’s muted
levels as the sovereign debt crisis weighs on corporate appetite
to do deals. Still, several buyout firms are selling industrial
companies in  Europe ’s largest economy. Capvis Equity Partners AG
is selling Bartec Holding GmbH, a maker of explosion-resistant
switching and signaling gear, and IK Investment Partners is
disposing of industrial weighing equipment maker Schenck Process
GmbH, according to people familiar with the processes.  EQT Partners AB, a Swedish buyout firm, last week agreed to
buy bandages-supplier BSN Medical in  Germany ’s largest buyout
since July 2008, stoking optimism among private equity firms and
bankers that deals can get done.  KraussMaffei spokesman Imre Szerdahelyi declined to
comment. Spokespeople for Madison in the U.S. couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment.  KraussMaffei Group is unrelated to Krauss-Maffei Wegmann
GmbH, the German armored vehicle maker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  