-- Naira Heads for Two-Week High on Central Bank Sales: Lagos Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-06-19T11:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/naira-heads-for-two-week-high-on-central-bank-sales-lagos-mover.html
The naira climbed for a second day,
heading for the strongest in almost two weeks, after the central
bank extended its increased supply of dollars and on speculation
energy companies may sell foreign exchange.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer appreciated
0.6 percent to 161.2 per dollar as of 11:10 a.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, according to data complied by Bloomberg. A
close at that level would be the highest since June 6. The naira
has gained 0.7 percent against the dollar this year, the third-
best among African currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  sold $400 million at a foreign-
currency auction yesterday, matching the amount sold on June 13,
which was the most since Feb. 8. The Abuja-based regulator is
the main supplier of foreign currency to the market through
twice-weekly auctions and direct sales to lenders in the
 interbank market . The oil industry is the second major source of
dollar supplies in the country.  “Notwithstanding still seemingly strong importer demand,
the increased intervention by the CBN and expected end-of-month
dollar sales by oil firms going into next week bodes well for
the naira’s near-term outlook,” Ridle Markus,  Dumisani Ngwenya 
and Mike Keenan, Johannseburg-based strategists at Absa Capital,
wrote in a report today.  Nigeria’s foreign-currency reserves, which have risen 14
percent this year, fell for a seventh straight day to $37.4
billion, according to June 15 data compiled by the central bank.
The West African nation’s benchmark Bonny Light crude has
dropped 25 percent from its March peak this year.  Inflation Rate  The naira was under pressure recently due to “a pick-up in
dollar demand, particularly from fuel importers, leading to the
central bank having to make periodic interventions on the inter-
bank market,” Gregory Kronsten and Olubunmi Asaolu, London-
based analysts at FBN Capital Ltd., wrote in a note to clients
today. They see the naira reaching 163 per dollar year-end and
170 by the end of 2013  Nigeria ’s  inflation rate  fell to 12.7 percent in May from
12.9 percent in April, the National Bureau of Statistics said
today, staying above the central bank’s target and adding to
expectations interest rates will remain unchanged at a  record
high  of 12 percent.  “The lower inflation print for May should reinforce the
near-term downside bias on local yields,” said the Absa Capital
strategists.  The yield on Nigeria’s domestic bonds due 2019 fell three
basis points to 15.61 percent, according to the June 18 data on
the Financial Markets Dealers Association website. Yields on the
nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due 2021 slid four basis
points to 5.5833 percent today.  Ghana ’s cedi was unchanged at 1.9275 per dollar in Accra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  