-- Nasdaq Joins Four Exchanges in Sustainability Effort
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-19T14:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/nasdaq-joins-four-exchanges-in-sustainability-effort.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  joined  stock
exchanges  in  Sao Paulo , Johannesburg, Istanbul and Cairo in an
effort to require listed companies to report material
information about environmental, social and governance risks.  The exchanges agreed to urge their more than 4,600
companies to measure and report on environmental and governance
issues such as greenhouse gas emissions, water usage and  gender
equality , or explain why they won’t. They are also asking more
exchanges to join the effort.  The decision gives a boost to the investor groups led by
 Aviva Plc (AV/)  and  Hermes Asset Management Ltd.  and the  United
Nations , which have urged stock exchanges to prod companies
toward better reporting sustainability issues. They’ve called
for common international standards and have pushed envoys from
190 nations at a UN conference in  Rio de Janeiro  to support
their stand.  “We want the financial world to trigger their capital in
the right directions,” said David Pitt-Watson, who chairs Focus
Asset Management at Hermes in London. “We’re saying, let’s have
a user-friendly regime with comparable data. Most people say
this is a no-brainer once they understand it.”           The
investor groups are concerned that sustainability reporting
isn’t done to a common standard and that a patchwork of
differing rules and practices has grown in the past decade.
Institutional investors have pushed for better standards in
reporting as they consider a broader range of issues affecting
the quality of their investments.  Not Material  “The problem with some of the sustainability reports is
they’re not really material, and they’re not as relevant as they
ought to be,” said David Blood, co-founder of Generation
Investment Management with former U.S. Vice President  Al Gore .
The companies need to work harder to “make it material and make
it relevant,” he said in an interview.  Efforts by companies, industries and large accounting firms
to reinvent performance measures on environmental, social and
governance issues, or ESG, demonstrate the challenge ahead.
While some metrics, such as emissions or water use, are easier
to standardize, social metrics, including board or workforce
diversity or community relations, are harder to value.  Stock markets provide a forum for investors and companies
to negotiate these issues. That’s what makes any possible global
framework for changing how listed companies report potentially
significant.  ‘Expecting Companies’  “We’re expecting companies to come forward with
commitments to improve their reporting on renewables and
sustainability goals,” said Jacob Scherr, director of global
strategy and advocacy at the  Natural Resources Defense Council 
in Washington, which will take part in today’s meeting.  Brazil ’s main stock exchange, Bovespa, issued a policy in
January recommending that listed companies declare whether they
report ESG data, and if not, why not. This month it announced
the first results of its “Report or Explain” project, which is
analyzing sustainability disclosures through the end of May.  The  Copenhagen exchange , owned by Nasdaq OMX, also has a
“comply or explain” principle on corporate-governance
transparency, according to spokesman Javier Lopez. “There is a
government requirement that applies to the top 1,100 companies
that are required to document corporate social responsibility.”  Aviva, the U.K’s largest insurer, Munich Re and other
investors have been working with the UN on the Sustainable Stock
Exchanges campaign to reach a worldwide commitment on reporting
requirements.  Comparable Reports  The initiative will help investors measure a company’s
sustainability efforts on an “apples-to-apples basis,”  Abengoa
SA (ABG)  Chief Executive Officer Manuel Sanchez Ortega said in an
interview at the  New York Stock Exchange. (NYX)  “If you’re part of
the global system, it’s very important.”  While Europe,  South Africa  and Brazil have led efforts to
require more reporting, U.S. exchanges as yet have no plans to
require companies to report risks associated with  climate
change , water use or workplace diversity.  “We don’t have any mandates for our listed companies in
terms of sustainability reporting,” said  Rich Adamonis , a
spokesman for NYSE. “We don’t have a position on that.”  According to London-based Aviva, NYSE is in the majority,
with 57 percent of global exchanges not providing guidance to
listed companies on sustainability reporting.  Meanwhile, voluntary reporting on sustainability measures
has grown with investor demand. Corporate signatories to the UN-
sponsored Global Compact jumped 54 percent last year to more
than 7,000. The organization is the world’s biggest voluntary
campaign to introduce standards on sustainability issues.  U.S. companies operating in regions that request reporting
on sustainability may face increasingly complicated requirements
that they don’t get back home, Hermes’s Pitt-Watson said.  “If we don’t get the framework developed in Rio, it will
be hugely costly and take far longer to complete it
voluntarily,” Pitt-Watson said. “There will be hundreds of
different regulations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  