-- News Corp. Offers A$2 Billion for Consolidated as Newspap
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-06-20T07:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/news-ltd-offers-to-buy-consolidated-media-for-a-2-billion.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWS)  offered
A$2 billion ($2 billion) to double its stake in  Australia ’s
biggest  pay-television  network and will cut newspaper jobs as it
shifts to more profitable broadcasting.  The nation’s largest newspaper publisher said in a
statement it’s seeking to buy Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd.
to boost its ownership of Foxtel to 50 percent. News Corp.’s
Australian newspaper unit plans to cut an unspecified number of
jobs, slash more than 70 percent of its divisions and expand its
online business, two days after rival Fairfax Media Ltd.
announced it would eliminate 1,900 jobs.  Murdoch, who started his global empire with a single
Australian newspaper, is following a path already adopted in the
U.K. and U.S., where pay-TV assets have outgrown  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
newspaper divisions. Billionaire  James Packer , who owns  50
percent (CMJ)  of Consolidated Media, backed the bid as he seeks cash
to expand his casino business and exit the last media assets he
inherited when his father Kerry died in 2005.  “There’s no doubt that print is in structural decline,”
said Prasad Patkar, who helps oversee the equivalent of $1
billion at Platypus Asset Management Pty in Sydney. “The days
of free content are numbered so if these companies are able to
gain traction in monetizing digital content, then why would you
be in the print business?”  News Corp. is offering A$3.50 a share in cash for
Consolidated Media, 14 percent more than yesterday’s closing
price.  Shares Surge  A deal is subject to approval from regulators and the
boards of both companies, Sydney-based Consolidated Media said
in a statement today.  The Australian Competition & Consumer Commission is
reviewing the offer, the regulator said on its website. The
closing date for submissions is July 11 and the ACCC may deliver
its findings by August 2.  Consolidated Media  shares  surged 9.7 percent to A$3.38 at
the close of trading in Sydney, the biggest gain in almost three
years. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index rose 0.2 percent. News
Corp.’s Australian-listed shares rose 0.6 percent to A$20.15.  The deal would also give Murdoch full ownership of the Fox
Sports business in Australia with broadcast rights to the most
popular games of Australian Football League and National Rugby
League.  “Foxtel is going to dominate sporting coverage in
Australia within 10 years, and that’s where News sees the
goal,” said Peter Warnes, Sydney-based head of equities at
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Consolidated Media and News each own 25 percent of Foxtel,
while Telstra Corp., the nation’s biggest phone company, holds
the remaining 50 percent stake.  Funding Capacity  News can fund the offer with cash as it has $6 billion of
capacity under the $10 billion it authorized to spend on share
buybacks, according to Justin Diddams, an analyst at Citigroup
Inc. in Sydney.  “This deal is consistent with management focus on
acquiring minorities in content focused assets,” Diddams said
in a report to clients. “We believe a competing offer for
Consolidated Media, above the A$3.50 offer price, is unlikely
given the ownership structure.”  News Corp. will have exclusive access to Consolidated Media
financial data and the target gave no assurance that the
proposal, or any transaction, would proceed.  Casino Business  Packer, who owns 48 percent of casino owner  Crown Ltd. (CWN) , may
get about A$1 billion in cash from a sale to News. The
billionaire is currently seeking regulatory permission to
increase his 10 percent stake in  Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) ,
operator of Sydney’s only casino.  Since taking control of the media and gaming empire Packer
inherited, he has sold the Nine Entertainment Co. television and
magazine business to buyout firms and split his media and casino
assets. He still holds a 6.9 percent stake in  Ten Network
Holdings Ltd. (TEN) , Australia’s third-ranked television broadcaster,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  News Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Kim Williams plans to cut
the number of divisions in Australia to five from 19 and operate
single newsrooms in each of the cities where it operates. The
company will introduce new computer systems and streamline
editorial desks to trim costs amid a downturn in advertising.  Job Cuts  “At this stage we cannot say how many roles will be made
redundant,” Williams said in an e-mailed statement. “Although
there will be retrenchments, many roles will be retired through
natural attrition.”  News Corp., which owns 120 metropolitan, regional and rural
newspapers across Australia, began charging in October for
online content from the Australian, the only national
broadsheet.  Melbourne ’s Herald Sun, Australia’s most popular
newspaper, also has a web subscription.  “These kinds of cuts and changes are reasonably
inevitable, so the fact that they’re addressing how they can
change their structure is a positive,”  Angus Gluskie , who helps
manage more than $350 million at White Funds Management in
Sydney, said before the CEO’s statement.  Fairfax, Australia’s second-largest newspaper publisher,
said June 18 it plans to cut 22 percent of its workforce, close
printing sites and introduce digital subscriptions to halt
sliding sales and a stock price slump.  Fairfax’s biggest shareholder and Asia’s richest woman,
 Gina Rinehart , is pushing the company to address an 87 percent
stock-price decline since 2007. The publisher of the Sydney
Morning Herald and Australian Financial Review trades at  0.3
times (FXJ)  its book value, the lowest among media companies worldwide
with market capitalizations exceeding $1 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kerry Stokes  Packer said he will support the bid in the absence of a
better offer.  Seven Group Holdings Ltd. (SVW) , controlled by
billionaire  Kerry Stokes , is the second-biggest investor in
Consolidated Media with a 24 percent stake, Bloomberg data show.  Seven is reviewing News Corp.’s proposal, it said in a
separate statement today. The company’s  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM) ,
the nation’s most watched free-to-air broadcaster, combined with
Foxtel and Telstra last year to pay A$1.25 billion for
Australian Football League rights from 2012 until 2016.  Foxtel bought billionaire  John Malone ’s Austar United
Communications Ltd. for A$1.9 billion in cash in April, adding
viewers in rural areas.  Williams ran Foxtel for almost 10 years before he was named
CEO of News Ltd. in December.  “Williams would have great insider knowledge of what
Foxtel is all about,” said Morningstar’s Warnes. “Don’t rule
Stokes out. He has always coveted pay television.”  A deal is unlikely to be completed until the fourth quarter
of 2012, Consolidated Media said. The company has retained  UBS
AG (UBSN)  as financial adviser and Ashurst Australia for legal advice.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  