-- News Corp. Board Ignored Wrongdoing, Investors Contend
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-06-19T14:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/news-corp-board-ignored-wrongdoing-investors-contend.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s board turned a blind
eye to illegal conduct including phone hacking by employees and
sanctioned founder  Rupert Murdoch ’s misuse of company resources
to gain political clout, investors said in a court filing.  News Corp.’s directors knew in 2009 that some of the media
company’s reporters routinely hacked into phones and bribed
British police officers for stories, a  New York  bank and an
Illinois pension fund said in an amended complaint filed
yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court. Board members refused to
properly probe these acts for fear of angering Murdoch and his
children who serve as company executives, according to the
complaint in a lawsuit against the directors.  The board’s lax oversight “is a textbook example of failed
corporate governance and domination by a controlling
shareholder,” the investors said in their complaint. Directors
also “condoned Murdoch’s use of News Corp. to pursue his quest
for power, control, and political gain” at shareholder expense,
the investors alleged.  News Corp. officials yesterday denied reports that  James Murdoch , the New York-based company’s deputy chief operating
officer, obstructed a U.K. media-ethics inquiry triggered by
rampant phone-hacking at its now-defunct News of the World
tabloid. Police are probing whether James Murdoch, Rupert’s son,
failed to hand over to investigators an iPhone issued to senior
executives at the company.  Single Reporter  News Corp. is trying to move past the controversy after the
inquiry that began last year revealed damaging e-mails and text
messages. Both Rupert and James Murdoch blamed the scandal on
underlings when they testified in April before a judge handling
the inquiry, saying they believed the hacking was limited to a
single reporter who was jailed in 2007.  Jack Horner , a U.S.-based spokesman for News Corp., didn’t
immediately return a call for comment today on the amended
complaint.  Last month, British lawmakers concluded that Rupert Murdoch
was not “a fit person” to lead a major international company
after News Corp. officials misled Parliament about extent of
phone hacking at the News of the World, which was closed in the
wake of the scandal.  Murdoch “turned a blind eye and exhibited willful
blindness to what was going on in his companies,” the House of
Commons Culture Committee said in its report.  News Corp.’s board announced May 2 that it had “full
confidence” in Murdoch’s ability to lead the media company
despite lawmakers’ finding.  Best Interests  Directors’ willingness to back Murdoch in the face of
criticism over the phone-hacking scandal shows they can’t be
relied on to act in shareholders’ best interests, New York-based
Amalgamated Bank and Jacksonville, Illinois-based  Central
Laborers  Pension fund, said in the amended complaint.  “Plaintiffs seek to obtain redress for News Corp’s public
shareholders for the harm caused by the board’s bad faith
failure of oversight,” according to the complaint.  The investors filed a so-called derivative lawsuit against
the board, which would return any recovery from insurance
covering the company’s officers and directors to News Corp.’s
coffers.  The case is In re News Corp. Shareholder Derivative
Litigation, CA 6285, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  