-- No Time for Congress to Avoid Immigration Overhaul, Reid Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-19T15:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/no-time-for-congress-to-avoid-immigration-overhaul-reid-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s decision to
immediately stop deporting some illegal immigrants brought to
the U.S. as children “shouldn’t be seen as a free pass for
Congress” to abandon its role in overhauling the nation’s
immigration system, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said
today.  “We have lots of other issues we have to deal with in
immigration,” the Nevada Democrat said. “Instead we should see
it as a chance for Democrats and Republicans to work together on
a lasting answer to the serious shortfalls of our broken
immigration system.”  Reid spokesman Adam Jentleson didn’t immediately respond as
to whether Reid was planning to bring immigration-related
legislation to the floor in coming months.  Reid criticized Florida Republican Senator Marco Rubio, a
potential running mate to Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , for dropping plans to introduce a measure that could
grant work visas to some young people brought to the U.S.
illegally.  Rubio’s proposal was modeled on a Democratic plan, known as
the Dream Act, that would have provided a path to citizenship
for some young people in the U.S. illegally who attend college
or serve in the military.  ’Walk Away’  ‘Now is hardly the time to walk away from the Dream Act,’’
Reid said. “It’s certainly no time to abandon calls for
comprehensive immigration reform.”  The Senate last voted on a significant immigration measure
in December 2010, when some Democrats joined Republicans to
block the Dream Act.  Also today, House Speaker  John Boehner  said the Obama
administration’s immigration directive will make it tougher for
Congress to advance an overhaul of the immigration system.  “It’s going to make it much more difficult for us to work
in a bipartisan way to get a permanent solution,” Boehner, an
Ohio Republican, told reporters.  A Bloomberg poll released today found that 64 percent of
likely voters surveyed after Obama’s June 15 announcement said
they agreed with the policy, while 30 percent said they
disagreed. Independents backed the decision by about a two-to-
one margin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  