-- Obama Confident of Europe Debt Progress as G-20 Concludes
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-06-20T01:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/obama-seeks-european-debt-progress-before-resuming-campaign-1-.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama 
expressed confidence that European leaders will reverse the
deepening crisis over sovereign debt on the continent.  Euro zone leaders showed “a heightened sense of urgency”
during the Group of 20 summit of leaders of major industrialized
nations in Los Cabos, Mexico, Obama said at the conclusion of
the meeting.  During the next several weeks, euro zone leaders will
“paint a picture of where we need to go” and “take some
immediate steps” to demonstrate resolve to financial markets,
the president said. “If people have a sense of where they are
going, that can provide confidence break the fever.”  Obama devoted his final scheduled trip abroad before the
election to pressing foreign leaders to stimulate growth and
urging European leaders to take decisive action on the
continent’s sovereign debt crisis. He met on the sidelines of
the summit with euro zone leaders, as well as Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  and Chinese President  Hu Jintao .  Obama said he discussed the violence in Syria with Putin
and Hu, both of whom have acted to protect Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad in the  United Nations Security Council .  He said the Russian and Chinese leaders recognize the
situation in Syria “does not serve their interests” though he
stopped short of saying they are ready to abandon Assad.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said earlier in the day
that European leaders plan steps to help the region “grow
faster.” Europe is seeking “a framework” for “a stronger set
of institutions,” including a banking union, before a European
summit later this month, he said.  Geithner said the European Union summit June 28-29 will be
“critical.”  Greek Elections  After a victory in Greek elections on June 17 for political
parties that support a European bailout and austerity plan,
financial markets turned on  Spain  as the summit opened. Spanish
10-year bond yields leaped above the 7 percent level that pushed
Greece, Ireland and Portugal to call for sovereign rescues for
the first time since the euro’s creation.  Spanish bond yields declined and global stocks rose today
after the Spanish government met its target at a bill auction
and the U.S. Federal Reserve prepared to meet on stimulus
measures.  The MSCI All-Country World Index added 1.2 percent at 4
p.m. in New York and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 1
percent to 1,357.98, with both reaching the highest level in
more than a month. The yield on  Spain’s 10-year note  dropped 12
basis points to 7.04 percent.  Romney Challenge  In an election in which Obama is running against discontent
with the economy as much as Republican challenger  Mitt Romney ,
the perils to the global economy may hurt his political
prospects.  Obama met with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  for 45
minutes yesterday before the formal G-20 sessions began. He and
Merkel met again today on the sidelines of the summit together
with leaders of the U.K., Italy, France and Spain, as well as
European Union officials.  Obama met separately with Hu amid signs that  China’s
economy , the world’s second-largest, is decelerating. The agenda
included U.S. complaints that China needs to allow its currency
to appreciate further.  While pressure is building on Merkel to be more
accommodating to European nations enveloped in the debt crisis,
she said today that the new Greek government shouldn’t be
granted leeway on the terms of its international bailout.  Europe’s Decision  Obama has called  Europe ’s banking and growth crisis a
“cloud” hanging over the  U.S. economy . Administration
officials said they didn’t expect the summit to resolve the
sovereign debt issue that has led to high borrowing costs and
economic contraction in much of Southern Europe.  “Let me also just underscore this isn’t a meeting where we
expect Europeans to make decisions about Europe,” said  Michael Froman , deputy national security adviser for international
economic affairs, in a briefing for reporters in Washington on
June 15.  Froman said concrete steps are more likely at a European
summit June 28-29. The ability of the U.S. to get European
leaders and institutions to take action is limited, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Los Cabos,  Mexico  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Los Cabos, Mexico at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  