-- Obama Meets Hu on Security, Trade as G-20 Summit Ends
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-06-19T23:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/obama-meets-hu-on-security-trade-as-g-20-summit-ends.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  praised
“significant progress” in expanding trade and commercial
opportunities with China as he opened a meeting with Chinese
President Hu Jintao.  Obama said the session, on the sidelines of the Group of 20
summit of heads of major industrialized nations, was “a good
opportunity to recap the work” between the two nations. The
agenda included U.S. grievances that China keeps its currency
artificially low to bolster exports, according to an Obama
administration official, who briefed reporters and asked to not
be named to describe the private meeting.  Obama said he also plans to discuss efforts to curb Iran
and North Korea’s nuclear ambitions as well as violence in
Syria. China has protected Syrian President Bashar al-Assad with
its veto on the  United Nations Security Council .  Hu said China “is willing to work with the United States
to build a cooperative partnership.”  Obama’s Republican challenger in this year’s election,  Mitt Romney , says he’d be tougher on China trade policy, as the
president seeks Chinese assistance on Iran and  North Korea .  China is undergoing its own once-a-decade political
transition and today’s meeting was the last scheduled between
the chiefs of the world’s two largest economies before Chinese
Vice President  Xi Jinping  is to take over as the country’s
leader next year.  The Chinese economy has shown signs of slowing during
recent months. China’s Commerce Minister,  Chen Deming , said
yesterday that growth may be improving this month after
government measures, including its first interest-rate reduction
since 2008.  Political Pressure  China’s trade and currency policies have long been a source
of friction between the two nations.  Romney has said would direct the Treasury Department to
list China as a currency manipulator and slap sanctions on China
for unfair trade practices.  As the U.S. seeks to exert pressure on  Iran  by restricting
its oil exports, China -- the the world’s leading importer of
Iranian crude -- remains exposed to possible penalties.  China was not among the nations the U.S. included in a list
of countries qualifying for an exemption from financial
sanctions on Iranian oil imports announced on June 11. The
exempt nations “have all significantly reduced” the volume of
the oil they buy from Iran, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said in a statement accompanying the announcement.  Under the U.S. law enacted Dec. 31, nations have until June
28 to demonstrate they have “significantly reduced” the volume
of their Iranian crude purchases. If they fail to do so, their
banks that settle oil trades with Iran will be cut off from the
U.S. financial system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Los Cabos, Mexico at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Los Cabos, Mexico at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  