-- Obama Immigration Policy Favored 2-to-1 by Likely Voters
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-06-19T15:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/obama-immigration-policy-favored-2-to-1-by-likely-voters.html
President  Barack Obama  is winning
the opening round in the battle over immigration, according to a
Bloomberg poll released today, putting Republicans on the
defensive with his decision to end the deportations of some
illegal immigrants brought to the U.S. as children,  Sixty-four percent of likely voters surveyed after Obama’s
June 15 announcement said they agreed with the policy, while 30
percent said they disagreed. Independents backed the decision by
better than a two-to-one margin.  The results underscore the challenge facing  Mitt Romney  and
Republicans as they try to woo Hispanic voters, who are the
nation’s largest ethnic minority and made up 9 percent of the
2008 electorate, according to a Pew Hispanic Center analysis of
exit polls. Obama won the Hispanic vote 67 to 31 percent over
Republican  John McCain  in 2008, according to exit polls.  “In that  Republican Party , there is a tolerance problem,”
said Carmen Nieves, 27, of  Albany ,  New York , who is of Puerto
Rican heritage and participated in the Bloomberg June 15-18
survey.  “These are things that have to be done, and I’m expecting
them to be done,” said Nieves. “I see a person who is doing
his job.”  DHS Directive  Obama, who has long backed legislation offering young
immigrants a pathway to citizenship, announced a Department of
Homeland Security directive forbidding the federal government
from initiating the deportation of illegal immigrants under the
age of 30 who came to the U.S. before age 16; have lived in the
country for at least five years; have no criminal records; and
are in school, high school graduates, or military veterans.  The decision left Republicans struggling to respond,
trapped between alienating their political base and sending a
negative signal to the Hispanic community and independent
voters. A majority -- 56 percent -- of likely Republican voters
opposed the decision, while almost nine in 10, or 86 percent, of
Democrats supported it. Sixty-five percent of independents
backed the policy change, while 26 percent disagreed.  Romney, the presumed Republican presidential nominee, has
refused to say whether he would reverse the decision if he’s
elected.  Yesterday, Senator  Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican,
dropped plans to introduce legislation that would grant work
visas to some young people brought to the U.S. illegally. The
president’s decision undercut momentum for Rubio’s plans, said
Alex Conant, the senator’s spokesman.  Lawsuit Threats  The White House action angered the anti-immigration wing of
the Republican Party. U.S. Congressman Steve King, an Iowa
Republican, said he intends to sue Obama to suspend the
directive. At a May 21 town-hall meeting, King compared
immigrants to dogs, saying the government should select those to
award legal status in the same way that owners choose the “pick
of the litter.”  That’s the sort of reaction Obama’s team will seize on as
it seeks to position the Republicans as being against young
immigrants raised in the U.S. -- a position that could alienate
swing voters whose life experiences counter that position.  “At first I was really against it, but after sitting down
and thinking about it, a lot of kids here are good kids,”
Loretta Price, 65, a retiree and undecided independent voter
from Ocala,  Florida , said in a follow-up interview. “I think it
was the right thing to do.”  Not Priority  The poll showed that relatively few respondents surveyed
consider immigration their top issue amid continued economic
anxiety, with 4 percent of voters naming it as their leading
concern.  Karis Verlander, 65, an independent from the suburbs of  San
Antonio , said while she agreed with Obama’s decision, she
thought it was driven more by politics than core beliefs.
Verlander doesn’t plan to vote for Obama, saying she’s unhappy
with the economy.  “He’s just playing politics with this issue,” she said.
“He doesn’t really care.”  The Bloomberg National Poll, conducted by  Des Moines , Iowa-
based polling firm Selzer & Co., has a margin of error of plus
or minus 3.6 percentage points for the 734 likely voters
contacted.  Obama campaign officials, who deny political motivation for
the action, are counting on it to solidify support among
Hispanic voters, giving the president an edge in what could be a
close race. Democrats were quick to highlight Romney’s June 17
interview on CBS “Face the Nation,” during which he declined
on four occasions to say whether he’d reverse course on the
policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  