-- Obama Plan Means Higher Taxes on Business Profits: Study
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-20T00:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/obama-plan-means-higher-taxes-on-53-of-business-income-study.html
President  Barack Obama ’s plan to
raise tax rates for the top 2 percent of U.S. households would
mean higher taxes on the people who report 53 percent of
business income reported on individual returns, according to the
Joint Committee on Taxation.  The nonpartisan analysts prepared the data at the request
of Republicans on the Senate Finance Committee.  Orrin Hatch  of
 Utah , the panel’s top Republican, said the document was
“irrefutable proof” that tax rates shouldn’t go up.  “With our economy as weak as it is, it makes absolutely no
sense to hit more and more small businesses with a tax hike,”
he said in a statement.  The analysis doesn’t include data on the size of the
businesses owned by top earners or estimates of how they would
respond to higher tax rates. It doesn’t consider the corporate
income tax or taxpayers subject to the alternative minimum tax.  If Congress doesn’t act, tax rates for income,  capital
gains , dividends and estates will increase in 2013. Obama wants
to let existing tax cuts expire for married couples making more
than $250,000 a year and individuals making more than $200,000.  According to JCT, next year 940,000 households within the
top 2 percent will report net positive business income and will
face marginal tax rates that would be 36 percent or 39.6 percent
under Obama’s plan, up from 33 percent and 35 percent now. That
represents 3.5 percent of taxpayers who have business income and
53 percent of net positive business income, the analysis said.  Private Equity  Profits from businesses structured as partnerships, sole
proprietorships and closely held corporations flow through to
their owners’ tax returns. Democrats often note that many of
these businesses -- including  private equity  firms and global
law firms -- aren’t small.  Republicans and Democrats have been sparring for years over
how much of the impact of marginal tax rate changes on high
earners affect small businesses, with each side brandishing its
own set of statistics.  A  Treasury Department study  last year that attempted to
separate small businesses from larger business with income
flowing through to their owners found that between 29 percent
and 33 percent of small-business income was in the top two
brackets.  “Republicans clearly don’t think that the very highest
earners should be asked to pay more to help with the deficit,”
Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , the top Democrat on the
House Ways and Means Committee, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Deficit reduction should not stop at the doorstep of
millionaires.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  