-- Mobius Says Emerging Stocks in ‘Sweet Spot,’ Adding to Holdings
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-06-19T05:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/mobius-says-emerging-stocks-in-sweet-spot-adding-to-holdings.html
Investor  Mark Mobius  is buying more
equities in  emerging markets  as economic growth remains buoyant
in  China  and valuations plunge from historical averages.  Stocks are in a “sweet spot,” Mobius, who oversees about
$50 billion as executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets
Group, said in an interview from Singapore. He’s adding to
equities in China, Russia, Turkey, Thailand and Africa.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index trades at 10.1 times
estimated earnings, compared with the decade average of 11.5,
after dropping 14 percent from this year’s high on March 2 on
concern exports to Europe are faltering because of the region’s
debt crisis. The index is still up 1.9 percent this year,
compared with a 2.5 percent gain for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) , which
trades at 12 times earnings.  “We continue to invest,” said Mobius. “The prices are so
reasonable now. The P/E ratio for emerging markets is about 10
times now, which is very, very cheap. We are at a very very
sweet spot.”  In China, Mobius likes consumer stocks, which are poised to
benefit from the government’s emphasis on consumption over
exports as a future driver of the economy.  “We like China because of the growth,’ Mobius said. ‘‘A
lot of people ask me if China is having a hard or soft landing.
And we tell them China’s not having a landing and it continues
to fly.”  China’s commerce minister said his nation’s economy is
heading for a rebound following government measures to support
growth. The central bank announced a cut in  interest rates  for
the first time since 2008 on June 7 before the release of May
economic data which showed consumer prices rose the least in two
years while industrial output and retail sales trailed analysts’
estimates.  Policy Steps  “I personally think that the June situation is turning for
the better,”  Chen Deming  told reporters yesterday in Los Cabos,
 Mexico , without specifying the signs of improvement. With a
“pretty obvious” downward trend the past two months, policy
makers took steps to shore up consumption, he said.  Mobius predicted gains in emerging markets in March 2009,
when he told Bloomberg Television that developing-nation
equities are building the base for the next “bull-market”
rally. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  more than doubled from
its lows that month to its peak in May 2011.  The 18 percent plunge in a gauge of global emerging-market
equities from early March to early June this year is a “typical
spring-time correction” and won’t turn into a  bear market ,
Citigroup Inc. said in a June 14 report. Andreas Roemer, chief
investment officer for emerging markets at Frankfurt-based DWS
Investments Management GMBH, said developing nation equities
should rise in the second half of the year after “huge”
monetary and fiscal stimulus in countries like Brazil, China and
Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  