-- Lockheed Needs Pressure to Pare F-35 Costs, Levin Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-06-19T19:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/lockheed-needs-pressure-to-pare-f-35-costs-levin-says.html
The Pentagon and Congress should
press  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  to reduce soaring costs of its F-35
Joint Strike Fighter, the chairman of the U.S. Senate Armed
Services Committee said.  “We have to keep the pressure on,” Senator  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, said in an interview. “We’ve got to have
contracts which are fixed-priced. We have to make reductions.”  The F-35 contract awarded to Lockheed in 2001 called for
three variants of an affordable stealth fighter for the Air
Force, Navy and Marine Corps. The Pentagon’s most expensive
weapons program, its total cost is estimated at $395.7 billion,
a 70 percent increase from a 2001 estimate equal to $233 billion
in current dollars, according to the latest Pentagon Selected
Acquisition Report.  The first four contracts for 63 jets are exceeding their
combined target cost by $1 billion, according to congressional
auditors. The U.S. Government Accountability Office said in a
review released on June 14 that the F-35 will require $12.7
billion a year on average through 2037. That’s up from $9.1
billion requested for fiscal 2013.  The program’s projected “lifecycle cost” -- including
development since 1994, production of 2,443 jets and 55 years of
support -- increased to $1.51 trillion from $1.38 trillion in
2010, Pentagon officials told reporters March 30.  Asked whether Pentagon efforts to control the costs were
moving in the right direction, Levin said. “I’ve got plenty of
concerns. Some trends are positive and some trends are not.”  “We’ve got to have a backup, which is what the F-18 is all
about,” Levin said of the current fighter built by  Boeing Co. (BA)   Lockheed’s Stevens  Asked today about the senator’s comments, Robert Stevens,
Lockheed’s chairman and chief executive officer, said, “We
agree with Senator Levin. We want to get this program right.”  The Navy has included funds through 2017 to buy 51
additional F-18s, in part as a hedge against further delays in
the 78 F-35s it wants to acquire in those years.  For the fifth F-35 production contract that’s still under
negotiation, Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed has agreed for
the first time to share costs to fix deficiencies discovered
during flight tests that overlap the plane’s development.  This approach, called concurrent development, is supposed
to save time. Instead, it added to costs, according to Frank
Kendall, the Pentagon’s undersecretary for acquisition.  ‘Acquisition Malpractice’  “Putting the F-35 into production years before the first
flight test was acquisition malpractice,” Kendall said in a
Feb. 6 industry presentation, according to Air Force magazine.
“It should not have been done. But we did it.”  The F-35 program proceeded with the “optimistic prediction
we were good enough at modeling and simulation that we would not
find problems in flight test,” Kendall said. “That was wrong,
and now we are paying the price.”  Stevens said in an interview today that “every aircraft
program with which we have familiarity has a degree of
concurrency.”  “If you think of a non-concurrent program, how exactly
would that work?” he said. “It’s already 15 or 20 years to
develop an aircraft with concurrency. Doing a step-by-step
process without any overlap between design and production would
mean that the design would have some technological obsolescence
as it heads into production.”  Such an airplane would also “cost a fortune,” Stevens
said at a Lockheed conference for reporters in Arlington,
Virginia.  Greater Share  As part of the sixth contract for the F-35, the Pentagon
plans to craft provisions forcing Lockheed to absorb a greater
share of cost overruns than in the prior five contracts.  Additionally, six of the 31 aircraft in the sixth contract
won’t be awarded until Lockheed meets at least five criteria,
including successful review this year of the latest software
release, Vice Admiral David Venlet  told  the Senate Armed
Services Committee’s airpower panel in May.  Levin also cited as a positive sign the Pentagon’s request
in its fiscal 2013 budget request for 29 F-35s, 13 fewer than
previously planned.  Performance Mixed  The GAO found the F-35 program’s performance in 2011 “was
mixed as the program achieved 6 of 11 important objectives.
Developmental flight testing gained momentum and is now about 21
percent complete with the most challenging tasks still ahead.”  Lockheed’s manufacturing process “is still absorbing a
higher than expected number of engineering changes resulting
from flight testing, changes which are expected to persist at
elevated levels into 2019, making it difficult to achieve
efficient production rates,” the GAO wrote.  Lockheed is reviewing the report, spokeswoman Laurie Quincy
said in an e-mail.  The company “made outstanding progress” during 2011
flight test, training and production, “and so far in 2012, we
are about 20 percent ahead of our flight test plan,” she said.  “We understand the concerns of the  Department of Defense 
and continue to make forward progress in addressing these
concerns,” she said. “The team remains focused on
performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  