-- Oil Trades Near Two-Day High on Japan, Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-06-20T07:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/oil-trades-near-two-day-high-on-stimulus-speculation-iran-talks.html
Oil traded near the highest close in
two days as rising imports by  Japan  and speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will add stimulus to the  U.S. economy  countered concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis will derail the global recovery.  Futures were little changed in New York after falling as
much as 0.3 percent. Japan’s crude imports gained 7.1 percent in
May from a year ago, according to data from the  finance
ministry . The Fed concludes a two-day meeting in  Washington 
today, while Spain holds a bond auction tomorrow. Oil slid
earlier after an industry report showed U.S. crude stockpiles
dropped 550,000 barrels. That decline is less than the 1.3
million forecast to be reported by the Energy Department today.  “Oil appears to have found a level which the market
collectively on balance thinks is appropriate for current risks
in either direction,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst
at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The upside is associated with
monetary easing but on the other hand, Spanish bonds remain
disturbingly high.”  Oil for July delivery, which expires today, was at $83.98 a
barrel, down 5 cents, in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 3 p.m. Singapore time. It rose 0.9
percent yesterday to $84.03, the highest close since June 15.
The more-actively traded August contract slid 12 cents to $84.23
a barrel. Front-month prices are down 15 percent this year.  Brent oil for August settlement was at $95.53 a barrel,
down 23 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The front-month price for the European benchmark contract was at
a  premium  to West Texas Intermediate of $11.30, compared with
$11.41 yesterday.  Japan Purchases  Japan’s imports of crude last month rose to 16.6 million
kiloliters, or 3.37 million barrels a day, the finance ministry
data showed. Utilities increased thermal power generation by 34
percent in May to compensate for a drop in nuclear generation,
according to data released June 13 by the Federation of Electric
Power Companies of Japan.  The U.S. central bank is forecast to announce added
stimulus measures as soon as this week’s meeting, according to
12 of the 21 primary dealers who trade with the Fed.  Spain  is scheduled to sell debt tomorrow maturing in 2014,
2015 and 2017. Yields on the nation’s 10-year government debt
increased to 7.29 percent on June 18, the highest level since
the euro was introduced in 1999. While they eased yesterday,
they remained above the 7 percent level that pushed  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  to seek rescue packages.  U.S. Supplies  “My sense of the market is that it will remain volatile,”
said Diego Parrilla, the chief investment officer of Singapore-
based NARECO Advisors, a commodity asset manager. “The macro
situation and Europe won’t be resolved any time soon. It’s quite
possible for WTI to go down to $70 to $75 a barrel in the next
few months.”  Crude stockpiles at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point
for  New York  futures, rose 625,000 barrels to a record last
week, data from the  American Petroleum Institute  showed.
Gasoline inventories increased  1.1 million barrels , compared
with a forecast gain of 1 million barrels in today’s government
report, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Distillate supplies, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, slid 269,000 barrels compared
with a projected 1 million rise.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Iran Talks  Iran  and world powers failed to reach a breakthrough after
two days of talks in Moscow aimed at alleviating the threat of
military action against the second-biggest oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Western powers contend Iran is hiding a nuclear-weapons
program, and the U.S. and  Israel  have declined to discount the
possibility of strikes against atomic installations.  “It’s obviously difficult to get the ramifications of the
Iran talks, but certainly these things alter the risk-profit
profile of traders,” said Mark Keenan, the chief investment
officer of Cubit Asset Management Pte in  Singapore . “When you
have that risk in the market, people might be willing to hold on
to a losing long position a little bit more than a losing short
position, because they do have that extra stabilizer to the
upside.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  