-- Oil Rises on Europe Optimism, Fed Stimulus Expectation
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-06-19T20:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/oil-rises-as-spain-meets-target-greece-nears-coalition.html
Oil advanced on optimism that
Europe’s debt crisis is easing and speculation that the  Federal
Reserve  will announce measures to boost the  U.S. economy .  Prices rose 0.9 percent as Spanish bond yields declined
after the government met its target at a bill auction and
European creditors prepared to ease Greece’s bailout terms. The
Fed is meeting today and tomorrow to decide whether more
monetary stimulus is needed to boost the economy.  “Whenever Europe looks a little bit more stable, it’s
going to be helpful to the market,” said Jason Schenker,
president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based
energy consultant. “We’ve got the Fed decision tomorrow and
there is some anticipation of additional accommodative policy.”  Oil for July delivery, which expires tomorrow, rose 76
cents to settle at $84.03 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Oil is down 15 percent this year. The more actively
traded August contract rose 75 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $84.35.  Prices were little changed after  American Petroleum
Institute  reported oil inventories fell 550,000 barrels in the
week ended June 15 to 385.1 million. The July contract rose 92
cents, or 1.1 percent, to $84.19 at 4:42 p.m.  Brent oil for August slid 29 cents, or 0.3 percent to
$95.76 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
the lowest settlement since January 2011. The European
benchmark’s premium to West Texas Intermediate narrowed $1.04 to
$11.41, the lowest level since January.  Spain sold 3.04 billion euros ($3.8 billion) of bills,
exceeding a target of 3 billion, according to the Madrid-based
Bank of  Spain . Demand for Spain’s 12-month bills was 2.16 times
the amount offered, compared with 1.84 last month. The bid-to-
cover ratio on the 18-month securities rose to 4.42 from 3.23.  Greek Talks  Greece’s election winner, Antonis Samaras of the New
Democracy party, began a second day of talks to form a coalition
after holding “constructive” meetings with two party leaders.
 Evangelos Venizelos , leader of the Pasok party, said a new
government may be ready by midday tomorrow.  Once a Greek government is formed, representatives of the
European Union, the  International Monetary Fund , and the
 European Central Bank  will travel to  Athens  and evaluate
requests for adaptations in the aid program, an EU official told
reporters on condition of anonymity in Brussels.  “You are seeing some optimism coming out of Europe,” said
Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO
Futures. “There is little chance that  Greece  will exit the  euro
zone  and that’s helping the market.”  The euro gained as much as 1.2 percent against the dollar.
A stronger euro and weaker dollar increase oil’s appeal as an
investment alternative.  Equities Rise  Oil also followed gains in U.S. stocks. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 1 percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  advanced 0.7 percent.  “We’ve got the euro down and equities up and it boded well
for the energy sector,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market
strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago.  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which sets the course of
Fed policy, will decide whether more monetary stimulus is needed
to boost growth as the labor market stumbles and risks from
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis rise.  The central bank bought a total of $2.3 trillion in bonds
from December 2008 to June 2011 to stimulate the economy in an
action known as quantitative easing.  “The risk is more to the upside here, because you will
probably see the Fed announcing something,” said Tariq Zahir, a
New York-based commodity fund manager at Tyche Capital Advisors.
“We are probably going to see a rather large move over the next
couple of days.”  Crude Inventories  Oil also rose as U.S. crude  inventories  probably declined
for a third week as refineries operated at the highest rate in
almost five years, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Stockpiles dropped 1.3 million barrels, or 0.3 percent, to
383.1 million last week, according to the median of 11 analyst
estimates before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  Traders are also watching the Iran nuclear negotiations in
Moscow, Zahir said. No breakthrough was reached in the talks
with Chinese, French, German, Russian, U.K. and U.S. diplomats.
Iran is the second-largest exporter in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, trailing  Saudi Arabia .  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 480,058
contracts as of 4:44 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 569,987
contracts yesterday, 3 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.46 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  