-- Lone Pine Raises Esprit Stake After Chief Executive Quits
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-20T10:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/lone-pine-raises-esprit-stake-after-chief-executive-quits.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) ’s largest
shareholder, hedge fund  Lone Pine  Capital LLC, increased its
stake as the shares plunged after the apparel company’s chief
executive officer and chairman quit last week.  Lone Pine  bought  1.39 million Esprit shares on June 13
following Chief Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis’s
resignation and 14.1 million shares on June 15 after the
chairman had quit as well, according to Hong Kong Stock Exchange
data.  The purchases by Greenwich, Connecticut-based Lone Pine,
run by Stephen F. Mandel Jr., brought its holdings in the
clothing firm to 14.17 percent. Esprit wants to revive earnings
by adding stores in  China  and boosting marketing.  “I don’t think Lone Pine is increasing its stake for the
sake of gaining control in the company,” said Gabriel Chan, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “As a hedge
fund, they are more likely to bargain hunt.”  The June 13 and June 15 purchases raised its stake by more
than 1 percent. Esprit shares closed up 2.6 percent to HK$10.30
today.  Lone Pine has more than doubled its stake in Esprit over
the past 14 months, according to  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange data,
which shows it held 6.23 percent in April last year.  Van der Vis’s resignation announcement late on June 12
drove the stock down 22 percent to HK$10.54 the next trading
day. The Hong Kong-based company reported the departure of its
chairman after the market closed on June 13. The company lost 73
percent of its market value last year.  Same Strategy  After the resignations were announced last week, Esprit
said it won’t change a strategy intended to boost the fashion
brand’s revenue. In an  investor presentation  last year, the
company said it planned to spend more than HK$18 billion ($2.3
billion) over four years on efforts to revive its brands through
more marketing and a bigger Chinese presence.  Marathon Asset Management LLP is Esprit’s second largest
shareholder with a 7 percent stake, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Esprit, which has been hurt by competition from rivals
including  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara, in
September reported a 98 percent decline in fiscal year  profit 
and said its brand had “lost its soul.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  