-- Ong’s RRJ Said to Seek $5 Billion for New Asia Fund
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-19T02:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/ong-s-rrj-said-to-seek-5-billion-for-new-asia-fund.html
RRJ Capital Ltd., run by former
 Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. banker Richard Ong, plans to raise at
least $5 billion for a private-equity fund focusing on  China  and
Southeast  Asia , a person with knowledge of the matter said.  RRJ, based in Hong Kong and Singapore, has received more
than $3 billion of commitments from investors, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the process is private.
The firm plans a so-called first closing of the fund in
September, according to the person.  At $5 billion, Ong’s fund would be one of the biggest ever
raised for investments in Asia. Ong, who left his position as
Goldman Sachs’s co-head of  investment banking  in Asia in 2008,
garnered $2.3 billion for RRJ’s first fund a year ago and has
invested almost 70 percent of that money, the person said.  Ong will be vying with  KKR & Co. (KKR) , Carlyle Group LP and TPG
Capital for money as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis rocks
investor confidence worldwide. Fifty-three pan-Asia funds were
attempting to raise a total of $22.3 billion to invest
exclusively in the region as of last month, according to data
from  Preqin Ltd. , a London-based research firm.  KKR is seeking as much as $6 billion for its second Asia
fund, almost five years after it raised $4 billion for its first
regional pool in 2007, according to people with knowledge of the
matter. Fort Worth, Texas-based TPG Capital wants as much as $5
billion.  TPG raised $4.25 billion in 2008 for its previous Asia-
focused fund, the region’s largest capital raising to date,
according to the Asian Venture Capital Journal.  Temasek Backed  Wong Yong Teck, a managing director at RRJ, declined to
comment.  RRJ’s team includes Ong’s brother, Charles Ong, who left
his post in January as senior managing director of special
projects at Temasek Holdings Pte.,  Singapore ’s state-owned
investment company. Last year, RRJ teamed up with a group
including Temasek to purchase Frac Tech Holdings LLC, a Fort
Worth-based hydraulic-fracturing services company.  The firm started meeting potential investors this week and
expects to raise most of the money from the U.S., Europe and
 Middle East , the person said. Backed by investors including
Temasek and Korea Investment Corp., RRJ Capital’s first fund has
invested in Chinese diaper maker AAB Commodities Co.;  Clean
Energy Fuels Corp. (CLNE) , a U.S.-based provider of natural-gas fuel
for transportation; and Cheniere Energy Inc.  After leaving Goldman Sachs, Richard Ong joined Hopu
Investment Management Co., a fund set up by Fang Fenglei,
chairman of Goldman Sachs’s Chinese securities venture. He left
Hopu early last year to start RRJ Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  