-- Monsanto Files Suit Against DuPont Over Seed Development
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-06-19T16:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/monsanto-files-suit-against-dupont-over-seed-development-1-.html
Monsanto Co., (MON)  the world’s largest
seed company, filed a patent-infringement lawsuit against  DuPont
Co. (DD)  and its Pioneer Hi-Bred unit over a way to develop new seeds
more quickly and with fewer failures.  Pioneer’s laser-assisted seed selection infringes Monsanto
patents covering a method known as seed chipping, a way of
testing the genetics of a large batch of seeds while maintaining
their ability to be planted, Monsanto said.  The new complaint, filed yesterday in federal court in St.
Louis, expands the legal battle between the two largest seed
companies. Pioneer sued Monsanto in 2011 over ways to produce
corn seed and a 2009 patent suit Monsanto filed against Pioneer
over herbicide-resistant corn and soybean seeds is scheduled for
trial next month.  “We believe this latest suit by Monsanto is without merit,
and we will vigorously defend our position in court,”  Dan Turner , a spokesman for DuPont, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Monsanto continues to use litigation in an attempt to limit
Pioneer from being an effective competitor. This tactic has not
worked in previous cases, and it will not work in this matter.”  Seed chipping enables automated sampling of material from
seeds without harming their viability. Researchers can cull
individual seeds to choose ones that have desired traits and
reject others. The process shaves months off the development
cycle and eliminates waste, according to the complaint.  ‘Crude’ Figures  The inventions covered by the nine Monsanto patents “are
revolutionizing plant breeding by allowing faster and more
precise development of better crops and by allowing insight and
understanding of plant performance, genetics, DNA linkage and
thus improved agronomics and yield,” Monsanto said in the
complaint.  Monsanto said it first demonstrated its seed-chipper system
in August 2007 in  Illinois . Within months of the company’s
patent applications being made public, Pioneer filed
applications “which include crude, hastily hand-drawn figures
and purport to describe and claim subject matter disclosed in
Monsanto’s seed-chipper patent applications,” St. Louis-based
Monsanto said in the complaint.  DuPont, based in Wilmington,  Delaware , is building a
technology hub for its seed business in Beijing, employing about
50 researchers who will be using Monsanto technology, and is
using the process to develop Pioneer’s Optimum Aquamax hybrids
that are used in areas with limited water, Monsanto said.  Monsanto is seeking a court order to block further use of
its inventions, and wants cash compensation for the unauthorized
copying.  Sales Boosted  DuPont reported in April that seed sales rose 20 percent to
$3.2 billion. Monsanto said sales of seeds and genetic licenses
in the second quarter jumped 15 percent.  U.S. farm net income may be $91.7 billion this year, the
second-highest total on record, according to the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture . Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5
billion in 2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion,
government figures show.  U.S. plantings may reach about 94 million acres (38 million
hectares) this spring, Morgan Stanley said in a report dated
yesterday, citing an estimate from Michael Cordonnier, the
president of forecaster Soybean & Corn Advisor Inc. Farmers
planted 91.9 million acres last year, according to the USDA.  The U.S. is the world’s largest corn grower and exporter,
accounting for about 44 percent of the world’s corn trade.  The case is Monsanto Co. v. Pioneer Hi-Bred International
Inc., 12cv1090, U.S. District Court for the District of
 Missouri ,  St. Louis .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  