-- Monti Says Euro Talks With Obama Put Off After Debate
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-19T16:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/monti-says-euro-talks-with-obama-put-off-after-debate.html
European leaders and U.S. President
 Barack Obama  put off planned talks on Europe’s financial crisis
after discussing the turmoil at length during the first day of a
Group of 20 summit, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said.  The after-dinner meeting that never was became a theme of
separate briefings held by Monti, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande  as each tried to
dispel what Monti called “speculation” over personal dynamics.
Hollande said the talks were rescheduled for today.  “We spent all day discussing the euro zone,” then at the
official G-20 dinner “we also spoke about the euro zone,”
Monti told reporters today in the Mexican coastal resort of Los
Cabos, where world leaders began the final day of their summit.  Monti was chatting with Obama during a fireworks display
after dinner when the U.S. president asked him whether they
needed to meet yet again to discuss the euro zone.  “I said, ‘I don’t think so, but let me ask Merkel and
Hollande,’” Monti told reporters. “And they also thought that
the day had been more than rich enough with debate.”  The meeting had been arranged at Obama’s request as the
G-20 focused on the sovereign debt crisis in the 17-nation euro
region and its risks to the global economy. Obama has blamed the
turmoil for slowing U.S. employment growth in an election year.  ‘Very Intense’  Merkel, the leader of  Europe ’s biggest economy and the
dominant player in more than two years of crisis-fighting, said
that the G-20 dinner was “very intense” and leaders balked at
the prospect of a further meeting by mutual agreement.  “We were done, but in a good sense,” she told reporters
in Los Cabos. “We had checked the topic off the list.”  For Hollande, attending his first G-20 summit after
defeating Nicolas Sarkozy in May elections, the exchange over
dinner “was pretty clear on what Europe had to do.”  He said that “it was agreed we’d meet today” because
Obama “wants to understand what we’re going to do.”  In any case, ‘it was late,’’ Hollande said. “Notably for
the Europeans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  