-- OPEC Pledge Means Record Tanker Cargoes Reversing Rout: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-06-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/opec-pledge-means-record-tanker-cargoes-reversing-rout-freight.html
OPEC’s pledge to maintain production
quotas will sustain a record supply of oil cargoes in the
 Persian Gulf , giving ship owners the confidence to demand more
money after charter rates plunged 76 percent in 11 weeks.  Rates for very large crude carriers, each hauling 2 million
barrels, tumbled to $9,710 a day since April 2 amid speculation
that slumping oil prices would spur producers to cut back. OPEC
instead left output targets unchanged on June 14. Returns will
average $18,000 in the third quarter, the median of eight
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s more than
twice the $8,536 anticipated by forward freight agreements,
traded by brokers and used to bet on future costs.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, supplier
of 40 percent of the world’s oil, refrained from cutting output
after a decline of more than 10 percent in prices for the first
time in a decade, helping to shore up the recovery. The group’s
Persian Gulf members, led by  Saudi Arabia , are shipping the most
cargoes ever, diminishing a glut of tankers in the region to the
lowest in at least three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The decision to maintain quotas is clearly a positive for
owners’ sentiment,” said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at
Arctic Securities ASA in Oslo whose recommendations on shipping
stocks returned 24 percent in the past year. “Two weeks ago,
most were probably anticipating a slump in cargoes. This will
make them think twice about taking ever-lower rates.”  Fleet Capacity  Returns on the industry’s benchmark route from Saudi Arabia
to  Japan  rose as high as $41,093 this year as record demand from
 Asia  lengthened voyages, effectively curbing fleet capacity. The
current rate is 21 percent lower than at the start of the year,
according to data from the London-based Baltic Exchange. That’s
below the $24,100 that  Frontline Ltd. (FRO) , the largest VLCC
operator, says it needs to break even.  OPEC pumped 31.6 million barrels a day in May, 1.6 million
more than the limit set at the 12-member group’s last meeting in
December, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Saudi Arabia produced
9.9 million barrels a day, the most since 1980, seeking to drive
prices below $100 a barrel in response to economic growth
slowing from China to Europe.  Brent crude  declined 24 percent to $96.28 a barrel since
March 1 on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in  London . The
retreat of almost $30 equates to a saving of about $2.63 billion
a day for the global economy, based on last year’s average
consumption of 88 million barrels estimated by BP Plc.  Saudi Arabia  The Persian Gulf nations of  Iran ,  Iraq ,  Kuwait ,  Qatar ,
Saudi Arabia and the  United Arab Emirates  produced 22.2 million
barrels a day in April, the most since at least 1962, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Single-voyage bookings of VLCC
cargoes from the region averaged 132 a month this year, the most
ever, according to Galbraith’s Ltd., a shipbroker in London.  The increase in Persian Gulf oil may end up hurting tanker
rates because it means Asian buyers will find more supply closer
to home, rather than relying on producers in the Atlantic
region, said Simon Newman, an analyst at ICAP Shipping
International Ltd. in London. A journey from Saudi Arabia to
 China ’s northeast Qingdao port takes about 26 days, compared
with 44 days from  Nigeria , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Asian importers are scheduled to take 57 West African
cargoes this month, the fewest since December, according to
surveys of traders and an analysis of loading programs by
Bloomberg. Shipments have dropped for four consecutive months.
The decline drove more vessels into the Persian Gulf to compete
for business, Arctic Securities’ Stavseth said.  Nuclear Program  OPEC’s efforts to maintain production may be undermined by
a European Union ban on Iranian crude exports from July 1. The
27-nation EU says  Iran’s nuclear program  is aimed at producing
atomic weapons, while the government in Tehran defends it as
being for civilian purposes. Exports, which already dropped by
500,000 barrels a day this year, may decline another 29 percent
to a daily 1.2 million barrels after the embargo takes effect,
London-based Barclays Plc estimates.  Demand for crude may weaken as economies slow, with
Commerzbank AG anticipating a second-half glut of 1 million
barrels a day should OPEC keep producing at the same rate. The
17-nation euro area’s economy will contract 0.4 percent this
year, the median of 30 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg
showed. China grew 8.1 percent in the first quarter, the slowest
pace in almost three years.  Countries may instead stockpile crude, seeking to boost
reserves as prices decline and sustaining demand for tankers.
China, the biggest destination for VLCCs, accumulated a surplus
of about 90 million barrels of oil in the first five months of
the year, government data show. U.S. inventories of 384.4
million barrels are the highest in more than two decades,
according to Department of Energy data.  Fuel Bills  Declining oil prices also reduce ship owners’ fuel bills,
their single biggest operating expense. The price of bunkers, or
vessel fuel, slid 19 percent from a record set on Jan. 31 to
$598 a metric ton in  Singapore , the world’s largest refueling
port, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  A rebound in rates combined with cheaper fuel will help
Hamilton, Bermuda-based Frontline narrow its net loss to $20.8
million this year from $529.6 million in 2011, according to the
mean of 15  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of
the company rose 1.7 percent to 25.91 kroner in Oslo trading
this year and will decline to 24.83 kroner in 12 months, the
average of 16  forecasts  shows.  VLCC rates rose as high as $229,000 in 2007, spurring
owners to embark on a building program that created too much
capacity. Similar gluts exist across most types of commodity
shipping, with rates for Capesizes hauling  iron ore  and coal
slumping 88 percent this year, according to the  Baltic Exchange ,
which publishes costs along more than 50 maritime routes.  Surplus Capacity  The global fleet of VLCCs increased 17 percent since the
end of 2008, according to data from IHS Inc., a research group
based in Englewood,  Colorado . The glut may now be easing, with
the surplus capacity in the Persian Gulf averaging 9.8 percent
this year, according to weekly surveys of shipbrokers, owners
and traders by Bloomberg. That compares with an average of 16
percent since the surveys began in March 2009.  “The trickle of VLCCs is being absorbed because we’ve got
record cargoes being shipped from the Middle East Gulf,” said
Nigel Prentis, director of research at HSBC Shipping Services
Ltd., a London-based shipbroker and consultant. “Whatever crude
oil OPEC produces will be shipped and consumed, or it will be
shipped and placed into storage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  