-- Oracle’s Catz Says Itanium Chip Wasn’t Part of HP Accord
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-06-19T22:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/oracle-s-catz-says-itanium-chip-wasn-t-part-of-hp-accord.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Co-President Safra Catz
testified that the company’s agreement with Hewlett-Packard Co.
didn’t require it to continue making software that was
compatible with  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Itanium chip.  Catz today described to a state court judge in  San Jose ,
 California , a September 2010 phone conversation with  Ann Livermore , who was then a Hewlett-Packard vice president, as
they drafted the terms of a settlement agreement over  Mark Hurd ’s transition from chief executive officer at the world’s
largest personal computer maker to co-president at Oracle.  Livermore said Hewlett-Packard wanted Oracle to continue to
“port” its software to servers running on Intel’s Itanium
chip, Catz testified.  “Absolutely not, this was totally out of place in this
agreement,” Catz said she told Livermore in response. “It had
nothing to do with what we were doing.”  Oracle lawyer Dan Wall asked Catz how Livermore responded.  “She didn’t push back,” Catz said. “She was like, ‘Ok, I
get it.’”  Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto , California, seeks a
court order requiring Oracle to continue developing software for
its servers that run on Itanium chips and about $500 million in
damages, according to a person familiar with the matter.  $4 Billion  Without such an order, Hewlett-Packard estimates it should
be awarded more than $4 billion in damages, based on an
extrapolation to 2020 that accounts for projected losses, said
the person, who didn’t want to be identified because the court
document containing the damages request is confidential.  Oracle, based in  Redwood City , California, denies Hewlett-
Packard’s claims, arguing that the two sentences at issue in the
agreement don’t require Oracle to forfeit what software it can
develop and what price it can charge.  In the first phase of the trial, which started June 4,
Superior Court Judge James Kleinberg must determine whether
Oracle is contractually obligated to continue developing
software for Hewlett-Packard’s Itanium-based servers. If so, a
jury will determine in a second phase whether Oracle broke the
contract and what, if any, damages should be awarded.  On cross-examination, Hewlett-Packard’s lawyer,  Robert
Frank , showed Catz a portion of a Sept. 12, 2010, e-mail from
Oracle General Counsel Dorian Daley to lawyers drafting Hurd’s
settlement agreement. Under the heading, “Reaffirmation of the
Oracle -- HP partnership,” the e-mail refers to a conversation
between Catz and Livermore.  ‘Mutual Benefit’  “Ms. Catz and Ms. Livermore did not discuss anything more
than an agreement to continue to work together as the companies
have -- with Oracle porting products to HP’s platform and HP
supporting the ported products and the parties engaging in joint
marketing opportunities -- for the mutual benefit of
customers,” Daley wrote in the e-mail.  Frank asked Catz if Daley “misrepresented” her
conversation with Livermore.  “She added to the conversation, so this is not a perfect
representation,” Catz told the court. Daley “added things in
the dashes,” she said.  Sales of Hewlett-Packard’s Itanium-based Integrity and
Superdome servers have declined since Oracle made its March 2011
announcement that it would stop developing software for Itanium,
Martin Fink, a senior vice president at Hewlett-Packard,
testified last week.  In 2011, revenue for the “business critical systems”
group that Fink manages was about $2.5 billion. Sales of
Itanium-based machines accounted for about 90 to 95 percent of
the group’s revenue before Oracle’s announcement, Fink said.
Now, those machines comprise 70 to 75 percent of the group’s
revenue, he testified.  The case is  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  v. Oracle Corp., 11-
cv-203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County (San
Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  