-- Orexo Advances on Addiction Drug Study Result: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2012-06-19T13:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/orexo-advances-on-addiction-drug-study-result-stockholm-mover.html
Orexo AB (ORX) , a Swedish biotech company,
rose to the highest level in five months in  Stockholm  trading
after saying a study on its addiction medicine met expectations
and was completed ahead of schedule.  The shares rose as much as 8.7 percent to 30 kronor, the
highest price since Jan. 9. Orexo traded 7.6 percent higher at
29.70 kronor as of 2:31 p.m. local time and led the gainers in
the OMX Stockholm All-Share index.  A dosage test on OX219, a treatment for opioid addiction,
was finished ahead of schedule, Uppsala, Sweden-based Orexo said
today in a statement.  Orexo is preparing to expand in the U.S. market, having
bought back the rights to sell cancer-pain medicine Abstral in
the U.S. earlier this month. The OX219 study brings Orexo closer
to introducing that treatment in the U.S., the company said. The
U.S. market for opioid treatments is valued at $1.3 billion and
dependence on the painkillers affects more than 2 million
people, according to the drug developer.  “With a strong cash position and full control of the U.S.
rights to Abstral from January 1, 2013, Orexo has established
the basis for a successful U.S. commercial presence with two
brands from early 2014,” Chief Executive officer Anders Lundstroem said today.  Before filing for marketing approval with the U.S.  Food and
Drug Administration  for OX219, the company also needs to
complete a comparative trial versus  Reckitt Benckiser Group
Plc (RB/) ’s Suboxone treatment, Orexo said. Opioids include drugs such
as opium.  The drug developer said June 4 it plans to submit an
application in the first quarter next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 