-- Emerging Stocks Rise to Five-Week High as Fed Meets
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-06-19T20:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/most-emerging-stocks-decline-on-europe-debt-crisis-oci-rallies.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced to a
five-week high as Federal Reserve officials met to consider
measures to stimulate the world’s biggest economy and as Greece
moved toward forming a new government.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  climbed 1 percent to 943.44
in  New York , the highest close since May 15. Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa stock index advanced for a third day, led by  JBS SA (JBSS3) ,
Latin America’s biggest beef producer, and  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil company.  Mexico ’s  IPC (MEXBOL)  index
gained 1.6 percent as  Grupo Elektra SA (ELEKTRA*)  surged the most in three
months. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies listed in  Hong Kong  retreated 0.2 percent.  Fed policy makers began a two-day meeting today to discuss
U.S. growth and consider lengthening the maturity of its
Treasury holdings. Greek politicians continued talks to form a
government after the June 17 elections while  Evangelos
Venizelos , head of the Pasok party, said the country should
renegotiate its international rescue deal. The 21 countries in
the MSCI emerging market index send about 30 percent of their
exports to the European Union on average, data compiled by the
World Trade Organization show.  “There’s enough hope right now that central bankers will
get together and do something even if Europe doesn’t come up
with a comprehensive solution,” Greg Lesko, who helps oversee
over $800 million at Deltec Asset Management in New York, said
in a phone interview. “ Emerging markets  offer growth and they
offer yield, so when people are a little less afraid, they’re
going to the assets that have the best prospects.”  IMF Pledges  More leaders attending a Group of 20 gathering in Los
Cabos, Mexico agreed to contribute to the  International Monetary
Fund  to protect the global economy from Europe’s debt crisis,
IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a statement on
the sidelines of the two-day summit. China said it would
contribute $43 billion to the fund while Mexico would add $10
billion, matching pledges from  Russia , India and Brazil.  Russia relies on the European Union for about 52 percent of
its foreign shipments, while  China  sends about 20 percent of its
overseas sales to the EU, according to the WTO.  Emerging-market stocks are in a “sweet spot” as economic
growth remains buoyant in China and valuations plunge from
historical averages,  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $50 billion
as executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, said
in an interview from Singapore today. He’s adding to equities in
China, Russia, Turkey, Thailand and Africa.  MSCI Review  New York-based index provider MSCI Inc. will release the
results of its classification review tomorrow. The United Arab
Emirates and Qatar are up for a potential upgrade to emerging-
market status while South Korea and Taiwan are being considered
for a promotion to developed-market status. MSCI’s  stock
indexes are tracked by investors with about $7 trillion in
assets.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  gained 1.8 percent to a one-month high as JBS
advanced the most in two months, adding 6.2 percent, and
Petrobras climbed 4 percent. Grupo Elektra, the retail and
banking company controlled by billionaire Ricardo, climbed 16
percent, the most since March 12.  Egypt’s benchmark  EGX30 Index (EGX30)  lost 4.2 percent, the most
among 95 global indexes tracked by Bloomberg, after the
country’s generals said in a statement yesterday that authority
would shift to the newly elected head of state by the end of
this month. The previous night, they issued a decree curtailing
presidential powers and expanding their own.  The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  gained 1.7 percent in Istanbul,
after a 0.2 percent decline yesterday ended its longest winning
streak since 1993. The  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  gained 1.9 percent in Warsaw.  OAO RusHydro fell 5.5 percent in Moscow after Kommersant
reported that Russia’s largest hydropower company may hold a
secondary public share sale.  Turkey, India  CarrefourSA Carrefour Sabanci Ticaret Merkezi AS (CARFA)  gained 4.3
percent in Istanbul after part-owner Haci Omer Sabanci Holding
AS, Turkey’s second-biggest group of companies, said it
continues to assess buying shares in the unit from parent
Carrefour SA.  The rupee weakened 0.1 percent.  Fitch Ratings  cut its
outlook on India’s sovereign credit rating to negative from
stable after stock markets closed yesterday.  Tsingtao Brewery Co. (168)  tumbled 7.8 percent, the most in two
years, after Chinese billionaire Chen Fashu sold 32 million Hong
Kong-listed shares of the beer maker at a discount. Sri Lanka’s
benchmark  Colombo All-Share Index (CSEALL)  rose 1.2 percent after gross
domestic product topped forecasts.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  advanced 0.9 percent. ITC
Ltd., India’s biggest tobacco company, jumped 2.5 percent on
speculation earnings will be sheltered from slowing growth.  Extra Yield  HTC Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-largest smartphone maker, climbed
3.9 percent in Taipei, the most since May 29. It signed
agreements with China’s Sina Corp. and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  to
collaborate on Chinese mobile Internet services, HTC said in an
e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News today.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slid four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 382 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  