-- Thousands Protest in Cairo Amid Competing Claims
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-19T21:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/thousands-protest-in-cairo-amid-competing-claims.html
Tens of thousands of Egyptians
gathered in Cairo to protest at the military’s seizure of
additional powers as the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi and
 Hosni Mubarak ’s last premier laid dueling claims to the
country’s presidency.  The ruling generals’ appropriation of power through a
constitutional decree, two weeks before they are to hand over
authority to the new president, enraged the Brotherhood and
youth activists like the April 6 group that played a leading
role in the Egyptian uprising. Protesters returned to the home
of the revolution, Cairo’s  Tahrir Square , demanding a reversal
of what the Islamist group called the military’s “hegemony.”  The  decree  gave the military additional legislative powers
and a say over the drafting of the constitution. It followed a
court decision last week to dissolve parliament and fueled
charges the military is derailing Egypt’s transition to
democracy. The move also stoked investor concern about a
recovery in the $240 billion economy and prospects for a $3.2
billion International Monetary Fund loan. Egyptian  stocks  and
bonds extended declines today.  The campaigns of Mursi and Ahmed Shafik both held televised
news conferences today to announce they had won about 52 percent
of the vote in the runoff.  Former U.S. President  Jimmy Carter , whose Carter Center
observed the vote, said he was “deeply troubled by the
undemocratic turn that Egypt’s transition has taken.”  The military’s decree “violates their prior commitment to
the Egyptian people to make a full transfer of power to an
elected civilian government,” he said in a statement e-mailed
by the group.  Legislative Powers  Under the decree, the military assumed legislative powers
until the election of a new parliament, after the previous
Islamist-led legislature was dissolved. It also ensured its own
budget remained beyond public scrutiny and that it could
exercise a hand in writing the constitution, as well as vetoing
provisions in the document.  The military sought to reassure Egyptians of its
intentions, reiterating that it will hand over power by the end
of June in a ceremony full of pomp and circumstance.  “What the military got was legislative power and their
privileges and prerogatives guaranteed,” Hani Sabra, Eurasia
Group Mideast analyst, said by phone. “They got this because
they out-maneuvered the Brotherhood.”  “The party that benefits the most” from the turmoil and
unrest over the past 16 months is the military, he said, adding
that the decrees were likely a reflection of their calculation
on the first day of the runoff that Mursi would prevail.  Market Slumps  The tension was reflected in the markets, with  Egypt ’s
benchmark EGX 30 stock index slumping 4.2 percent at the close
Cairo, extending its slide since the first-round election last
month to 18 percent. Yields on the country’s 5.75 percent dollar
bonds maturing in 2020 advanced for a fourth day, gaining three
basis points to 6.97 percent.  Economic growth stalled after last year’s revolt as
tourists and investors stayed away. The government’s  borrowing
costs for one year  debt have surged by about 50 percent since
the start of last year, and the central bank has spent more than
half of the country’s currency reserves.  The protesters massing in Cairo’s Tahrir Square underscored
the outrage over the military’s move, suspicion about its
motives and the stakes for the Islamist group. The rally was led
by the Freedom and Justice Party, the Brotherhood’s political
arm headed by Mursi, and also included other Islamists and youth
activist groups.  ‘Seen as Empowered’  “If Mursi is elected, he cannot afford to be a powerless
president or the group will collapse,” said Omar Ashour,
director of Middle East studies at the University of Exeter in
the U.K. and visiting fellow at the Brookings Doha Center. “It
has already lost its popularity in parliamentary elections
because of the very same scenario: You’re seen as empowered, but
you’re not really.”  The Brotherhood said Egyptians are ready to continue the
struggle to prevent “the military council’s hegemony over the
reins of power, and the overthrow of democracy,” in a statement
on the Freedom and Justice Party’s Facebook page.  The military “wants to have the control buttons of the
Egyptian political landscape,” Ashour said, while also
reserving the ability to “reset that game at any point” if
they don’t like the outcome.  Return to ‘Darkness’  As protesters gathered, the man they ousted more than a
year ago had to be revived and have his heart-rate stabilized
using a defibrillator, prison department spokesman Brigadier-
General Mohamed Elewa said in a phone interview. Elewa said
Mubarak was then placed on an artificial ventilator.  Mubarak was transferred from a prison hospital to a
military hospital, Elewa said.  With most of the unofficial results now in, Mursi had
appealed early on June 18 to all Egyptians, seeking to strike a
conciliatory tone. Shafik’s campaign, which had largely vilified
the Islamist as part of a group looking to drag Egypt back into
“darkness,” claimed that the results showed the career air
force pilot and former civil aviation minister winning. It
repeated that claim today, just after Mursi’s camp did the same.  Both sides filed challenges with the election commission
that will be vetted tomorrow, with official results to be
released June 21. The election commission said it “has not
finished its work yet” and appealed to all to put the nation’s
interests first instead of announcing unofficial results, the
state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported.  Egyptian Feud  The last-minute feuding reflected the tone of the race that
pitted the two most divisive candidates to emerge from the
first-round vote last month.  Shafik was dubbed by Mursi and others as a member of the
old guard looking to revive his former boss’ regime. He said the
Brotherhood was actually the old regime and had been involved in
killing protesters during the uprising.  Whether those remarks resonated with the broader
population, or if it was his law-and-order campaign, the roughly
4 percentage point difference that separated both men,
irrespective of who was claiming victory, highlighted the
polarization that had developed in Egypt and the challenges the
Brotherhood faced.  Along with the stripped-down presidency its candidate could
inherit, an administrative court in Cairo today deferred until
September a hearing in two lawsuits seeking to dissolve the
group on the grounds that it was not properly registered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  