-- Monsanto Crop Bans by Courts Would Be Reversed in Bill
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-06-19T21:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/house-bill-would-override-court-bans-on-planting-monsanto-crops.html
A  House of Representatives  committee
voted to let farmers grow genetically modified crops developed
by  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and its competitors during legal appeals of the
approval process.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  would be required to
permit modified crops to be planted and sold into the  food
supply  after the agency’s approvals have been invalidated by a
court, under a provision in the fiscal 2013 agriculture  spending
bill  approved by the House Appropriations committee today.  The one-paragraph provision in the the 90-page bill would
circumvent legal obstacles that have slowed commercialization of
engineered crops, sometimes for years, benefiting Monsanto, the
world’s largest seed company. Planting would be permitted until
USDA completes any analysis required by a judge.  “A stream of lawsuits” have slowed approvals and created
uncertainties for companies developing the modified plants,
James C. Greenwood, president of the  Biotechnology Industry
Organization , whose members include Monsanto and Dupont Co.,
said in a June 13 letter to Congress. “The regulatory certainty
provided by this legislative language would address an immediate
threat to the regulatory process.”  The bill is similar to the accommodation the USDA made last
year in allowing farmers to plant Roundup Ready sugar beets
while the agency completed a court-mandated  environmental impact
statement . U.S. District Judge  Jeffrey White  in  San Francisco 
ruled in 2009 that the USDA erred in approving the crop without
undertaking the additional scrutiny.  Providing Assurance  The American Soybean Association, one of nine U.S.
agriculture groups  supporting  the House provision, said the
legislation would give farmers assurance they can plant and
harvest modified crops during legal challenges.  The Center for  Food Safety , which has sued over USDA
approvals of biotech crops, called the bill’s language a
“Monsanto profit assurance provision” that interferes with
judicial oversight of agency decisions and has the potential to
disrupt the global grain trade.  The bill would “empower a single corporation and a few of
its industry friends to move beyond the control of the U.S.
courts, USDA and public review to make their own rules and
profit from slippery back door politics,” Andrew Kimbrell,
executive director of the center, said today in a statement.  Opposition Groups  The center joined today with dozens of other watchdog
groups and organic associations in opposing the provision in a
letter to Congress.  Monsanto supports the provision, along with the  American
Farm Bureau Federation , Sara Miller, a spokeswoman for the St.
Louis-based company, said in an e-mail today.  The USDA’s approval of Roundup Ready alfalfa was overturned
in 2007 by U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer in San Francisco,
who banned further plantings pending the completion of a more
thorough environmental impact statement. The U.S. Supreme Court
overturned the planting ban in June 2010, and the USDA re-
approved the crop in January 2011 after completing the court-
ordered study.  The appropriations bill now goes to the full House for
consideration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  