-- Housing Starts in U.S. Fall 4.8% in May on Apartments
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-06-19T20:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/housing-starts-in-u-s-fell-4-8-in-may-to-708-000-rate.html
Builders broke ground on more
single-family houses for a third consecutive month in May and
rising construction permits pointed to further gains, showing
the residential real-estate market is weathering the U.S.
economic slowdown.  Work began on 516,000 one-family houses at an  annual rate 
last month, up 3.2 percent from April and the most this year,
the Commerce Department reported today in Washington. A slump in
construction of apartments, which is often volatile, led to an
unexpected drop in total  housing starts .  Building permits, a proxy for future construction, climbed
to the highest level since September 2008, showing the
combination of lower prices and record-low  mortgage rates  is
underpinning demand and encouraging new projects.  Toll Brothers (TOL) 
Inc. is among homebuilders benefiting from an improving housing
market on rising demand for move-up homes.  “We saw a very strong number in new permits, indicating
builders are seeing improving demand,” said  Russell Price ,
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit . The
report “was a lot better than the headline number would
suggest.”  Total  starts  dropped 4.8 percent to a 708,000 annual pace
in May from a revised 744,000 rate in the prior month that was
the highest since October 2008, today’s report showed. The
median forecast of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 722,000 rate. Estimates ranged from 685,000 to
750,000.  Building permits increased 7.9 percent to a 780,000 annual
rate, reflecting gains in single-family and multifamily homes.  Stocks Climb  Stocks advanced, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to
the highest level in more than a month, as the  Federal Reserve 
began a two-day meeting to decide whether more monetary stimulus
is needed to spur the world’s largest economy. The  S&P 500 
climbed 1 percent to 1,357.98 at the close in  New York .  Elsewhere, a report showed German investor confidence fell
in June by the most in 14 years as Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis weighed on the economic outlook. In  China , the commerce
minister said the nation’s economy is heading for a rebound this
month following government measures to support growth.  U.S. housing starts were up 26 percent in the 12 months
ended in May unadjusted for seasonal variations, today’s report
from the Commerce Department showed.  Work on apartment buildings and other multifamily units
decreased 21 percent to an annual rate of 192,000 in May, the
slowest this year, from 244,000 a month earlier.  By Region  Three of four regions had a decrease in overall starts in
May, including a 13 percent decline in the Midwest and a 20
percent drop in the Northeast. Starts in the West rose 14
percent.  A report yesterday showed  confidence  among U.S.
homebuilders climbed in June to a five-year high. The
Washington-based National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo index of sentiment rose by 1 point to 29, the highest
since May 2007.  Cheaper homes, low  mortgage rates  and enough of an increase
in  household income  drove housing  affordability  to an all-time
high in the first quarter, according to the National Association
of Realtors.  Borrowing costs are near historic lows. The average 30-
year, fixed mortgage rate reached a record low of 3.67 percent
in the first week of June, according to  Freddie Mac .  Another reason for optimism on the outlook for construction
is that Americans are forming households faster than new homes
are being built, said Douglas Yearley, chief executive officer
of Toll Brothers, a luxury homebuilder based in Horsham,
 Pennsylvania .  Borrowing Costs  “There is huge pent-up demand that has built over the last
four years from this imbalance,” Yearley said at a June 14
conference. “It’s been seven years since this all began to turn
down and you have people that are just ready to move on with
their lives, take advantage of great  interest rates .”  At the same time, three years after the end of the last
recession, hurdles remain for residential real estate. More
distressed properties are going on the market, adding to
inventory and pushing down prices.  Foreclosure starts grew in May on an annual basis for the
first time since January 2010, after the largest U.S. loan
servicers settled with states over faulty documentation,
according to a report last week from RealtyTrac Inc., a real
estate data provider in  Irvine , California. Home seizures
plunged 18 percent from a year earlier, the report also showed,
a sign that banks are turning to repossession alternatives,
RealtyTrac Inc. said today.  Labor Market  Weak job gains and stock market volatility also have
consumers apprehensive about taking on debt.  The number of  job openings  in the U.S. fell by 325,000 to
3.42 million in April, the fewest since November, Labor
Department figures showed today.  “Our forecast is still for growth but we’re being
conservative about it,” said Doug Duncan, chief economist at
Washington-based  Fannie Mae . “This will definitely be a year
where we’ll see growth in the housing market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  