-- Housing Starts in U.S. Probably Climbed in May on Lower Rates
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-06-19T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/housing-starts-in-u-s-probably-climbed-in-may-on-lower-rates.html
Builders in the U.S. broke ground on
more homes in May as the real estate market showed signs of
sustaining recent gains, economists said before a report today.  Starts climbed 0.7 percent last month to a 722,000 annual 
pace, the highest since October 2008, according to the median
estimate of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Building 
 permits , a proxy for future construction, rose 1 percent to a 
730,000 rate, the survey showed.  The combination of lower prices and record-low  mortgage
rates  is underpinning demand and encouraging some builders to
take on new projects. At the same time, competition from cheaper
previously owned properties and stricter lending rules remain
hurdles for an industry that’s been the weakest link for the
economic expansion.  “Homebuilding is slowly climbing out of the very deep hole
it fell into during the housing bust, but most of the strength
is in multifamily housing rather than in single-family
housing,” said  Steven Wood , principal economist at Insight
Economics LLC in Danville,  California .  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which sets the course of
central bank policy, begins a two-day meeting today to decide
whether more monetary stimulus is needed to boost growth as the
labor market stumbles and risks from  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis rise.  The housing starts figures are due from the Commerce
Department at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the
Bloomberg survey for May ranged from 685,000 to 750,000.  Builder Confidence  A report yesterday showed  confidence  among U.S.
homebuilders climbed in June to a five-year high. The
Washington-based National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo sentiment index rose by 1 point to 29, the highest since
May 2007.  Less expensive homes, low  mortgage rates  and enough of an
increase in  household income  drove housing  affordability  to an
all-time high in the first quarter, according to the National
Association of Realtors.  The average rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage reached
a record low of 3.67 percent in the first week of June,
according to  Freddie Mac .  The recovery helps explain gains in builder shares. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index, which
includes D.R. Horton Inc. and PulteGroup Inc., has climbed 33
percent this year, outpacing a 6.9 percent gain in the broader
 S&P 500 .  Household Formation  Another reason for optimism on the outlook for construction
is that Americans are forming households faster than new homes
are being built, said Douglas Yearley, chief executive officer
of  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL) , a luxury homebuilder based in Horsham,
 Pennsylvania .  “There is huge pent-up demand that has built over the last
four years from this imbalance,” Yearley said at a June 14
conference. “It’s been seven years since this all began to turn
down and you have people that are just ready to move on with
their lives, take advantage of great  interest rates .”  At the same time, three years after the end of the
recession, a stronger housing recovery remains elusive. More
distressed properties are going on the market, adding to
inventory and pushing down prices.  Foreclosure starts grew in May on an annual basis for the
first time since January 2010, after the largest U.S. loan
servicers settled with states over faulty documentation,
according to a report last week from RealtyTrac Inc., a real
estate data provider in  Irvine , California. Home seizures
plunged 18 percent from a year earlier, the report also showed,
a sign that banks are turning to repossession alternatives,
RealtyTrac Inc. said today.  Weak job gains and stock market volatility also have
consumers apprehensive about taking on debt.  “Our forecast is still for growth but we’re being
conservative about it,” said Doug Duncan, chief economist at
Washington-based  Fannie Mae . “This will definitely be a year
where we’ll see growth in the housing market.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  