-- How to Kill the Corporate-Income Tax
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-19T22:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/how-to-kill-the-corporate-income-tax.html
What if we told you there’s a way to
make the U.S. tax system fairer, get corporations out of
politics, improve our global competitiveness, bring home more
than $1 trillion in offshore earnings, increase wages, end the
double taxation of company profits and improve returns for many
shareholders?  You’d say we were dreaming. But all this could be achieved
if Congress would agree to a simple deal: Lower marginal rates,
tax long-term capital gains and dividends at the same rate as
regular income, and eliminate the corporate-income tax.  Under current law, long-term capital gains and dividends
are taxed at a preferential top rate of 15 percent, as opposed
to the top rate on labor income of 35 percent. This is quite
favorable to the wealthy, who earn more of their income from
investment. It leads to such famous distortions as  Warren Buffett  having a lower  tax rate  than his secretary.  It also leads to herculean tax-avoidance efforts, as the
rich hire armies of accountants to manipulate their incomes to
get the preferential rate. And then there’s the matter of
inheritance: When the wealthy die, any gain in their investments
passes untaxed to their heirs.  Further, the current system often amounts to double
taxation, since income earned by a  business  is subjected to the
35 percent corporate rate, then taxed again when it’s paid out
as a dividend.  Changing Assumptions  Although taxing capital has long been anathema to many
economists -- on the theory that it discourages investment and
thus economic growth -- recent studies are casting doubt on
their assumptions. The  Congressional Research Service   found  in
2010 that reductions in the  capital-gains  tax are “unlikely to
have much effect” on long-term growth and “would mostly benefit
very high income taxpayers.” Leonard E. Burman, a public
administration professor at  Syracuse University ,  has found  that
capital-gains rates “display no contemporaneous correlation with
real GDP growth during the last 50 years.”  In a recent  working paper  published by the  National Bureau
of Economic Research , economists Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez argue that the old consensus that taxing capital is always
and everywhere a bad thing fails to fully account for the
effects of inheritance and tax avoidance. In the real world,
with inequality widening, they suspect the optimal tax on
capital isn’t necessarily zero: It could even be higher than the
optimal tax on labor.  On the other side of the bargain, the corporate-income tax
has been subjected to so many distortions that it’s no longer
effective. As a share of gross domestic product, the amount it
brings in  has been declining  since the 1950s. This is partly
because loopholes and preferences keep proliferating, which
means most companies now pay a much lower effective rate.  The tax prompts executives to take outsized pay, because
their salaries are a deductible expense. It  reduces  wages,
meaning that its burdens fall heavily on labor. It makes
attracting investment in a world of mobile capital more
difficult. And then there’s the double-taxation problem -- which
encourages companies to pass along their tax expense to
consumers and employees, and discourages dividend payments.  Better Deal  Eliminating the corporate-income tax in exchange for a
higher capital-gains rate would make the tax system fairer,
simpler and more rational. It would eliminate inducements to  tax
avoidance  and yield further benefits for investors such as
pension funds and 401(k) accounts that already pay no capital-
gains taxes and would see better dividends.  Ending the tax breaks for  specific industries  would also
help get the government out of the dread practice of “picking
winners and losers” and providing corporate welfare. Much of the
vast corporate lobbying apparatus would be rendered moot, and
companies could finally repatriate the  more than $1 trillion  in
overseas earnings they’re holding to avoid taxation.  Economists are starting to get on board with variations of
this idea. Luigi Zingales of the  University of Chicago  recently
 argued  for reducing the corporate rate to 15 percent and
increasing the capital-gains rate to 35 percent. A  study  by
Rosanne Altshuler, Benjamin H. Harris and Eric Toder of the  Tax
Policy Center  argued for a capital-gains rate of 28 percent and
a corporate rate of about 26 percent.  In the interest of compromise, we’d endorse such variations
on our proposed deal. But it’s important to remember that none
of these reforms would result in a fiscal utopia, and there
would surely be complications.  Most crucial, there’s a revenue mismatch: Total savings to
taxpayers of preferential treatment for capital gains and
dividends in 2011 was about $158 billion,  according to  the Joint
Committee on Taxation. How much of that would go to the Treasury
under this reform would depend on investor behavior, but it
probably wouldn’t make up for what the corporate-income tax
brings in.  That’s why this deal must be a first step toward a more
aggressive overhaul. As we’ve argued before,  tax reform  should
simplify the code, lower marginal rates and prudently phase out
all or most  tax expenditures .  Taxes on capital should be treated as a unified system --
rates should be low and simple, and fair in the way they are
applied to similar kinds of economic activity. President  Ronald Reagan  had it roughly right, in other words, when he agreed in
1986 to tax capital gains at the same rate as labor in exchange
for reduced marginal rates. Perhaps that’s a lesson we need to
relearn every 25 years or so.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Egypt ’s de facto  coup d’etat ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  Washington ’s other  dysfunctional government ;
Clive Crook on why the  European Central Bank  must act;  Noah
Feldman  on whether Egypt will be the  next Algeria ;  Peter Orszag 
on  mandatory voting  in the U.S.; Carl Pope on the rise of
 renewable energy  in  emerging markets .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 