-- HP Will Use Intel’s Atom Chips in Low-Energy Servers
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-19T18:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/hp-will-use-intel-s-atom-chips-in-low-energy-servers.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
largest personal-computer maker, will use  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Atom
processors to make low-energy servers as part of an effort to
reduce power consumption in its products.  The machines, part of a program dubbed Project Moonshot,
are designed to help customers reduce server complexity, energy
use and costs, Palo Alto, California-based Hewlett-Packard said
today in a statement.  Hewlett-Packard is competing for corporate data-center
budgets with  Dell Inc. (DELL) , International Business Machines Corp.
and Cisco Systems Inc., as well as with servers that customers
assemble themselves. The Moonshot servers use derivatives of
chips designed for devices like mobile phones and laptops to
perform computing tasks while drawing less power.  New Atom-based systems called Gemini will debut later this
year and target computing jobs such as Internet hosting, Web
content delivery and processing data stored in the open-source
Hadoop file system, said Paul Santeler, a vice president and
general manager at Hewlett-Packard, at an event in  San
Francisco . The servers are housed in small cartridges and
thousands of them can fit in a single rack to load computing
power in a small space, he said in an interview.  In November, Hewlett-Packard demonstrated server cartridges
in the Moonshot program using  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  technology,
originally designed for mobile devices that use energy more
efficiently than larger computers. Dell on May 29 announced it
had begun delivering ARM-based servers to customers including
the Texas Advanced Computing Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  