-- Pacific Basin Falls on $190 Million Writedown: HK Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-19T08:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/pacific-basin-predicts-loss-on-190-million-roro-fleet-writedown.html
Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd. (2343) ,  Hong
Kong ’s biggest dry-bulk ship operator, fell the most in about
eight months after writing down its vehicle-carrying RoRo fleet
by $190 million and predicting a first-half loss.  The company slumped 6.3 percent to HK$3.25 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong, the biggest drop since October. The
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  dropped 0.1 percent. The expected loss
compares with a $3 million profit a year earlier, the company
said in a statement yesterday.  Pacific Basin wrote down the value of its RoRo, or roll-on,
roll-off, ships for the third time in four years as a global
glut of vessels and the  European debt crisis  damps rates. The
company, whose new Chief Executive Officer Mats Henrik Berglund
started this month, eventually plans to exit the RoRo business
and focus on its dry-bulk and towage operations, it said.  The writedown “was larger and earlier than we expected,”
Citigroup Inc. analyst Rigan Wong said in a note to clients
today. “This reflects the sudden deterioration of the RoRo
market.”  Wong reiterated a buy  rating  and a HK$4.85 target price,
citing a strong balance and the company’s “good position” to
expand its main dry-bulk fleet. The ship operator had unaudited
cash balances of $662 million as of the end of May,  borrowings 
of $860 million and a net borrowings ratio of 14.5 percent
against the net book value of property, plant and equipment post
impairment, according to the statement.  RoRo Fleet  Pacific Basin has six RoRo ships. The newest two 3,700-lane
meter vessels are laid up awaiting employment, the company said.
The ship operator booked an $80 million impairment against the
RoRo business in the first half of last year and a $25 million
charge in 2009. The total investment in the fleet was $530
million, Chief Financial Officer Andrew Broomhead said on a
conference call today.  The company plans to sell the RoRo ships when market
conditions allow, it said. The operator’s towage business is
“performing well and in line with our expectations” and the
company will continue to look for opportunities to expand its
fleet of handysize and handymax commodity carriers, it said.  “What we’re good at is operating handysize and handymax
ships, using our business models and anticipating changes in the
market,” Broomhead said. “That is absolutely our strength, and
any company should play to its strength.”  The company operated 152 dry-bulk ships and 43 towage
vessels at the end of last month, according to its  website .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  