-- Pacino, Nichols, Linney, Streep, Walken: Scene in N.Y.
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-06-19T16:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/pacino-nichols-linney-streep-walked-scene-in-n-y-.html
Al Pacino  said he keeps Shakespeare
“all over the place” in his home.  Mike Nichols  said he keeps his in the bedroom, “because
Shakespeare is hot.”  Pacino was honoree, Nichols one of 1,100 guests who
gathered in Central Park last night for a gala supper
celebrating the 50th anniversary of Shakespeare in the Park’s
home, the  Delacorte Theater .  Others included  KKR & Co. LP (KKR)  partner Erik Falk,
Centerbridge Partners LP managing principal Mark Gallogly and
Jeff Barker, Bank of America New York City market president.
 Bank of America  is a sponsor of Shakespeare in the Park.  The program, run by the Public Theater, has given more than
2,500 free performances at the Delacorte Theater to over five
million people since its inception.  The current production there is “As You Like It,” for
which  Steve Martin  wrote the music. Martin, standing next to
scientist Paul Roossin, noted that he read a synopsis of the
play to write the music. “I’ve seen it 100 times,” he added.  Over a meal of roast chicken, a bouquet of hydrangeas and
lilies sprucing up their table,  Laura Linney  and Julianna Margulies talked of the bard.  “I was Lady Capulet in high school,” said Linney.  “The Shakespeare I have at home is a set my father gave to
me for my 13th birthday,” Margulies said. “It’s leather bound
and it never leaves my study.”  Peter Blair Henry, the dean of New York University’s
Leonard N. Stern School of Business, has a budding Shakespearean
in the family. His 12-year-old son, Langston, participates in
the “No Fear Shakespeare” program at Grace Church School.  Streep, Kline  After dinner guests headed into the Delacorte for a reading
of “Romeo and Juliet” in front of a grove of trees.  “Psst...Romeo,”  Meryl Streep  said to  Kevin Kline , both
transformed into sweet teenagers.  Christine Baranski was a live-wire conspirator as Juliet’s
nurse. Jerry Stiller earned guffaws as a Capulet messenger.
(Where was that party he was talking about? “There,” Stiller
said pointing in the direction of the audience.)  Christopher Walken  as Mercutio was his edgy and enunciating
self.  “Flesh, flesh, how art thou fishified,” he teased Romeo
for being softened by love.  And there were kisses.  “Let lips do what hands do; they pray,” Romeo said.  “Give me my sin again,” Juliet demanded.  Chelsea Clinton  It was a cool night, and with intermission at 10, a long
night that required fortification.  Chelsea Clinton , who had earlier dined with Tony Kushner,
ate a green apple she purchased at the concession for $1. Bob Balaban had Twizzlers.  Warren Spector, the chairman of the  Public Theater  and a
director at the InSolve Global Credit Fund LP, anticipated hot
chocolate as the cast took their final bows.  The after party offered sandwiches and cake pops under a
pinkish sky and strings of lights. The music included Whitney Houston and the Bee Gees.  Actor John Cullum, who’d played Capulet in the reading,
arrived with Rebecca Faulkenberry, who plays Mary Jane Watson in
“Spider-Man Turn Off the Dark.”  Cullum recalled graduating from the University of
 Tennessee , Knoxville, never having played Shakespeare. He came
to New York and auditioned for “Hamlet” using a $1 version of
the play he had bought at the Strand.  These days he has about 25 small volumes of Shakespeare on
his shelf as well as about five different sets of the complete
works.  Guests departed with a copy of “Romeo and Juliet” in
their goody bags.  The event raised $2.1 million, guided by event co-
chairwomen Alexandra Shiva, a documentary filmmaker, and theater
producer Arielle Tepper Madover, who said her husband’s company
 Ouchies  is making an “Annie”-themed adhesive bandage in honor
of her bringing the musical to Broadway this autumn.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 