-- Pakistani Judge Orders Arrest of Prime Minister Candidate
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-06-21T19:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/pakistan-s-top-court-rules-gilani-ineligible-to-be-premier-1-.html
Pakistani lawmakers are set today to
vote in a successor to ousted Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani 
as the ruling coalition scrambles to settle on a suitable
candidate for the job.  President Asif Ali Zardari’s Pakistan Peoples Party
nominated Makhdoom Shahabuddin as its candidate yesterday just
before a judge ordered his arrest as part of a drugs probe,
fueling reports he may be pulled from the race. Raja Parvez Ashraf and Qamar Zaman Kaira, both former ministers of Gilani’s
cabinet, are the party’s other candidates.  Pakistan’s new leader will face the challenge of pursuing
corruption charges against Zardari or risk meeting the same fate
as Gilani, who this week became the nation’s first premier to be
removed by a court ruling for failing to open graft cases
against the president. A four-year clash between the government
and judiciary has rocked an administration that’s aiming to be
the first elected Pakistani regime to serve a full five-year
term. The next general election is due by early next year.  Members of  Pakistan ’s National Assembly, the lower house,
are scheduled to vote in Islamabad at 5:30 p.m. local time.
Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz, the main opposition, nominated
Mehtab Abbasi as its candidate for premier and Maulana Fazl-ur-
Rahman, a religious party leader, is also a contender.  Zardari’s coalition has the parliamentary majority it would
need to elect a prime minister. A party may field multiple
candidates until just prior to the vote in case the nomination
of one contender is rejected or withdraws for any reason.  Illicit Trade  A judge of the anti-narcotics court ordered Shahabuddin’s n
arrest without bail in a case allegedly involving the illicit
trade of ephedrine, Waseem Qureshi, a special public prosecutor
said by phone from Rawalpindi yesterday. The anti-narcotics
force is investigating whether Shahabuddin authorized an illegal
permit for two pharmaceutical companies to import ephedrine
during his term as health minister in 2011. The case, which also
involves Ali Musa Gilani, the former premier’s son, is being
supervised by senior judges headed by Chief Justice Iftikhar
Muhammad Chaudhry.  The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index, which has  climbed  20
percent this year, fell 0.5 percent to 13,600.60 yesterday.
Pakistan’s rupee dropped 0.2 percent against the  U.S. dollar  to
94.35 after weakening 5 percent this year.  Pakistan’s external payments position is under strain from
a rising trade deficit and declining capital inflows, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report yesterday. Domestic political
uncertainties add to vulnerabilities, according to the report.  The government is struggling to revive an economy hurt by
the fastest inflation in  Asia  and a record energy crisis that
has led to violent street protests across the Punjab province
this week. It’s also seeking to mend ties with the U.S. that are
critical to stabilizing neighboring  Afghanistan .  Former Minister  Shahabuddin, 65, a member of the National Assembly from
southern Punjab, also Gilani’s native area, has been minister of
health and textiles since he was elected in 2008. He was a
finance minister in slain former Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto ’s
earlier cabinet.  Pakistan’s most senior judges convicted Gilani, 60, of
contempt of court on April 26 for failing to act on an earlier
order to pursue corruption investigations against Zardari in
Swiss courts. Gilani’s lawyers failed to convince judges that
the constitution grants the president immunity from prosecution
while in office.  Negotiating with political parties to stay on as a civilian
president, former military ruler  Pervez Musharraf  in 2007
decreed an amnesty to halt corruption probes against 8,000
politicians and officials, including Zardari and his wife,
Bhutto.  The  Supreme Court  in 2009 ordered the government to
formally ask Swiss authorities to revive cases there against
Zardari and Bhutto, who was assassinated at a political rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  