-- Palo Alto IPO Boosts Check Point Bets: Israel Overnight
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-20T14:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/palo-alto-ipo-boosts-check-point-bets-israel-overnight.html
Options traders are the most bearish
in seven years on  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)  shares
as concern deepens that a new competitor will reduce its
dominance as the world’s second-largest security networks maker.  The ratio of  outstanding  puts to sell the stock of Check
Point versus calls to buy the shares climbed to 1.14 in  New
York , the highest level since 2004. The Tel Aviv-based
technology company fell to the lowest level in a year yesterday.
The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity (ISRA25BN)  Index of the most traded Israeli
companies in the U.S. added 0.4 percent to 83.12, led by  Tower
Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM)   Check Point shares have lost 23 percent since April 6 when
Palo Alto Networks Inc., an Internet security company, said it
registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
an initial public offering valued at $175 million. The Israeli
technology company reported on April 23 slower growth in first-
quarter sales of product licenses.  “The issue is that  Palo Alto  is looking to go public and
they’ve been pretty actively engaging investors and pitching
themselves as the Check Point killer,” Brian Freed, Memphis-
based vice president of equity research at Wunderlich Securities
Inc., said by phone yesterday. “It created a growing sense of
concern that they are a material threat going forward.”  Israel ’s  TA-25 benchmark index  fell 0.3 percent to 1,078.77
in Tel Aviv today, taking its loss to 0.6 percent in 2012,
compared with an advance of 2.3 percent for the Israel-US Equity
Index.  Open Interest  Palo Alto, based in Santa Clara, California, reported total
revenue was about $180 million in the nine-month period ended
April 30, according to a June 8 filing. Palo Alto said last week
it plans to expand operations in  Latin America , with offices in
Sao Paulo and Mexico City.  Mike Haro , a spokesman for Palo Alto, declined to comment
yesterday when contacted by phone about the company’s IPO plans.  Traders boosted bearish contracts on Check Point in the
past month.  Open interest  for puts on the stock rose 15 percent
from the May 18 expiration to 25,251 contracts on June 18, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That compared with a 2.6 percent
decline in calls to 22,504 options.  Check Point, which derived about 40 percent of  revenue  from
 Europe , the  Middle East  and Africa in 2011, retreated 1.1
percent to $48.64 yesterday in New York, the lowest since March
2011. The shares have retreated for five consecutive days, the
longest losing streak since Aug. 8.  ‘Competitive Dynamic’  “The competitive dynamic Palo Alto brings in addition to
potential slowing growth in Europe is creating concern about
overall growth,” Aaron Schwartz, an analyst at Jefferies & Co.
Inc., said by phone from New York yesterday. “It’s hard to get
your arms around how they can recover.”  Check Point will probably say sales rose to $333 million in
the second quarter, up from $301 million in the year-earlier
period, according to the mean  estimate  of 26 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The company, whose  customers  include  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Hewlett-
Packard Co., posted revenue of $313 million in the first
quarter, compared with the mean estimate of $312.7 million by 26
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland , has about 60 companies trading on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any nation outside the U.S. after
 China . The country is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Medical Imaging  Tower (TSEM) , an Israeli maker of customized chips, surged 4.8
percent to 77 cents a share in New York, the sharpest increase
since April 24. The Tel Aviv-traded stock was little changed at
2.9 shekels, or the equivalent of 75 cents, today.  The company worked with the Science and Technology
Facilities Council’s Rutherford Appleton Laboratory to assist in
the development of an image sensor for medical imaging,
according to a Business Wire statement yesterday.  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH) , the Israeli maker of network
processors, jumped 2.2 percent to $37.76 in New York, the
highest level since May 29. The shares added 2.5 percent to
147.7 shekels, or the equivalent of $38.20.  Investors should buy EZchip’s August $38/$43 call spreads,
Jim Strugger, an options strategist at MKM Partners LLC, wrote
in an e-mailed report yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  