-- Panasonic Sees Japan Share of Solar Sales Jump on Tariff
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-06-19T06:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/panasonic-sees-japan-share-of-solar-sales-jump-on-tariff.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  expects sales of
solar-power systems in  Japan  to account for a bigger proportion
of its global total this year as the July 1 introduction of a
so-called feed-in-tariff, or FIT, boosts demand.  “We expect a boom in the residential market as the FIT
price was set at a very good level,” Kazuhiro Yoshida, who
heads the Osaka-based electronics-maker’s solar business, told
reporters in Tokyo today. Japan sales will probably climb to 80
percent of revenue at the business this fiscal year from the 67
percent it comprised in the 12 months ended March 31, he said.  Panasonic and rival panel makers including  Sharp Corp. (6753)  and
 Kyocera Corp. (6971)  stand to benefit from the 42 yen (53 cents) a
kilowatt-hour feed-in tariff utilities will be required to pay
solar power producers starting next month. Sharp, also based in
 Osaka , and Panasonic are increasing their focus on solar panels
and batteries after losing a combined 1.15 trillion yen ($14.5
billion) last fiscal year as prices for the plasma and liquid-
crystal display televisions they sell dropped.  Worldwide shipments of solar panels may increase to 38
gigawatts in the year ending March 2016 from an estimated 23
gigawatts in the 12 months to March 2013, helped by growing
demand in Japan and the U.S., Yoshida said.  Panasonic plans to take advantage of its retail network to
boost market share in Japan where the nuclear meltdowns at Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant last year
increased demand for alternative energy sources, Yoshida said.  Malaysia Factory  Panasonic is also increasing solar-panel capacity and
lowering costs by opening a new plant in  Malaysia  to begin
operating in December, Yoshida said. The company expects to keep
 margins  for the solar business at about 10 percent this year.  The manufacturer’s battery  unit , which makes rechargeable
batteries used in consumer electronics as well as solar-power
systems, will probably post a 3 billion yen profit in the fiscal
year started April 1 as sales rise 7 percent to 660 billion yen,
Panasonic said in May. That compares with a loss of 20.9 billion
yen a year earlier.  The unit targets 1 trillion yen in revenue with an
operating margin, or operating income divided by sales, of at
least 10 percent by March 2016, Masato Ito, head of Panasonic’s
energy business, said May 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  