-- Paulson Says Harm to U.S. From Europe Crisis is Minimal
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-19T20:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/paulson-says-harm-to-u-s-from-europe-crisis-is-minimal.html
Former Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  said the U.S. will emerge relatively unharmed from the
debt crisis in Europe as efforts by  Greece , Spain and other
nations to stabilize their economies persist for the long-term.  “Although Europe is a drag, the U.S. will continue to
muddle along with growth that really isn’t enough to make a dent
in employment,” Paulson, who was Treasury secretary from July
2006 through January 2009, said at a biotechnology industry
conference in Boston today. Europe will eventually stabilize and
avoid a “catastrophic outcome,” he said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  are among world leaders meeting in Mexico this week to
attempt to fix the European debt crisis that’s threatening to
plunge the global economy back into recession. They gathered
after Spain’s borrowing costs soared to a euro-era record and
elections in Greece failed to damp the threat of contagion.  “It’s hard for people over here to understand how
committed the Europeans are to the monetary union,” Paulson
told executives during the  Biotechnology Industry Organization 
conference. “The monetary union isn’t sustainable unless you
forge something that is more like a political union. That’s much
more different. You’ve got 17 different countries over there.”  Under the best circumstances, “this will drag on over
time,” he said.  Blaming Banks  Paulson, a former chairman and chief executive officer of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , was joined at the conference by former
Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin . They discussed the U.S.
financial crisis, with Paulson saying government was more to
blame than the banks. Government policies encourage people to
save too little and borrow too much, he said.  “From the beginning of time, we’ve had financial crises,”
said Paulson, who is now chairman of the Paulson Institute at
the  University of Chicago . “People always blame the banks and
for good reason. When you look for the root causes, they’re
almost always failed government policies.”  More regulation is not the answer, he said.  “If you ever have to rely on regulation to save us that
won’t be enough because unless you think the banks are trying to
blow themselves up you’re never going to uncover all the
problems in advance,” Paulson said.  Paulson left New York-based Goldman in 2006 to serve as
Treasury secretary and held that position during the majority of
the U.S. recession that began in December 2007 and ended in June
2009. He said he has faith in current Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . His
pessimism in the short term stems from politics.  The main policy lawmakers can change that would make a
significant difference is the tax structure, he said. Paulson
said he is against the current debate in Congress where
Republicans have refused to raise any taxes and Democrats have
advocated for increasing taxes on the rich only.  Instead, corporate loopholes should be eliminated and
businesses should all be on a level playing field, he said.  “I would like to do away with the preferences,” Paulson
said. “Politically, I think it’s very difficult to get done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  