-- Pennsylvania Bill Boosts Charter Schools in Ailing Areas
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/pennsylvania-bill-boosts-charter-schools-in-ailing-areas.html
Pennsylvania’s Senate passed a
measure to let the state take over fiscally distressed school
districts and make charter conversions easier, a provision that
spurred opposition from teachers.  The  bill , which would permit the appointment of a chief
recovery officer to develop a plan for a school district whose
finances trigger oversight, passed 27-21 yesterday. A receiver
would be named if district leaders reject the blueprint, and
conversions to charter schools could be implemented based solely
on the recovery proposal, if they provide savings.  “This bill is ideologically driven, hidden under the name
of distressed schools that is about driving an agenda for
charters and hurting unions,” Mike Crossey, president of the
187,000-member  Pennsylvania State Education Association , said by
telephone. The bill passed the  House of Representatives  earlier.  Charter schools can ignore district union contracts.
Provisions easing charter conversions don’t often show up in
laws aimed at helping right the fiscal affairs of local boards,
Mike Griffith, a senior policy analyst at the  Education
Commission of the States , said by telephone.  While most states have protocols for helping distressed
schools, they rarely extend oversight beyond fiscal issues to
include such steps as charter conversions, said Griffith, whose
Denver-based nonprofit group provides education research.
 Michigan , for one, gave emergency school-district managers such
greater powers, he said.  Complete Restructuring  “It’s less common that you give an emergency fiscal
manager the ability to completely restructure a school
district,” Griffith said.  The move comes as Pennsylvania schools, like others across
the country, are coping with lower revenue from reduced property
values and cuts in state aid, according to Naomi Richman, a
managing director in public finance at Moody’s Investors Service
in  New York . She called it the “biggest test since the Great
Depression” for districts.  “The state has an interest in making sure its own money is
being spent in a responsible way by different school
districts,” Richman said in an interview. Education is often
one of the biggest expenses for state governments.  The bill doesn’t grant more direct state aid to schools,
while making loans available, which Crossey said is
“laughable.” Fiscally strapped districts are already in debt,
said the Harrisburg-based union’s chief.  A Start  “This is a start down that road to get our districts
straightened out financially so they can focus on what is their
primary mission, and that is to provide to the kids in this
commonwealth an academic setting where they will succeed and be
lifelong learners and successful citizens,” Senator Jeffrey Piccola, a Dauphin County Republican who leads the Education
Committee, said in debate before the vote.  Labor opposition softened after amendments removed
provisions to let distressed districts cancel union contracts
and curbing the right to strike. Changes also limited the number
of districts that could be placed under state oversight at any
one time.  The vote sends the bill back to the House, where lawmakers
must concur with the Senate’s version before the bill can go to
Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican who backed the measure. He’ll
review the Senate’s amendments, said Janet Kelley, a
spokeswoman. Both chambers are led by Republicans.  Oversight Candidates  The measure would require the state education department to
track the fiscal condition of school districts. Four -- Chester-
Upland, Harrisburg, York, and Duquesne -- would qualify for
oversight under the criteria in the bill.  A previous state control board left the 6,800-student
Chester-Upland district with $25 million in debt in 2010, Thomas Persing, the acting deputy superintendent, said by telephone.
Federal and state budget cuts have resulted in a loss of $23
million and a 30 percent reduction in employees in the past two
years, he said. The district is suing the state in U.S. District
Court, seeking more funding.  “This is just another way to avoid recognizing what is
truly needed, finding an adequate revenue source that’s
sustainable,” Persing said, calling the bill “old wine in new
bottles.”  Saving money shouldn’t be the sole reason to set up  charter
schools , said Alex Medler, vice president of policy and advocacy
of Chicago-based  National Association of Charter School
Authorizers , which works toward creating quality charter
schools. He cautioned that making financial savings a key
criteria sends the wrong signals to school operators.  “You should not approve the lowest bidder for a charter by
any means so you can save money,” Medler said. “To do so is to
set them up to cut too many corners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  