-- Market-Makers Rules on Quotes Seen Focus in House Hearing
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-06-20T11:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/penny-quotes-for-stocks-criticized-by-knight-getco-in-testimony.html
Rules governing the obligations of
market makers on U.S. equity exchanges and how stock quotes are
handled are among issues likely to be reviewed in a hearing
today before the House Committee on Financial Services.  Securities and Exchange Commission policy makers should
consider changes to trading regulations including widening quote
increments from 1 cent and banning pricing that enables
exchanges to collect fees from some traders to pay others,
according to written testimony from  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) 
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce. Market makers should also
be forced to keep their bid and offer quotes in the market for
at least a second before canceling them, he said.  Eleven firms offered recommendations to the panel, whose
hearings today in  Washington  come five weeks after Nasdaq Stock
Market’s mishandling of Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering
revived questions about the reliability of U.S. stock markets.
Most addressed the competition that has emerged between
exchanges and brokers to handle equity orders and stability
issues related to high-frequency trading and the flash crash of
May 2010.  “The time has come for policy makers to bring perspective
to the market,” NYSE Euronext CEO Duncan Niederauer said in
written  testimony . “We fear that as a result of too much focus
on market microstructure incrementalism, there has been too
little public discourse on the formidable reliability and
resilience of the equity markets during crises and overall
fairness to investors.”  Market Reform  The issues raised by Knight, Getco LLC and the owner of the
 New York  Stock Exchange are part of a debate that developed in
the mid-1990s with the SEC’s efforts to reform U.S. market
structure, dominated at the time by the NYSE and Nasdaq. Today,
trading is fragmented across more than a dozen exchanges and
electronic communications networks and more than 40 dark pools.  Rules such as the decimalization of share quotes and the
growth of competing trading venues have reduced the
profitability of traditional market making, delivering more of
the benefits to high-speed traders such as Getco. As the role of
those firms has grown, so have efforts to codify their
obligations to maintain orderly trading.  U.S. market makers need tougher  capital requirements  and
stiffer rules to provide quotes at the best prices, according to
Knight’s Joyce, whose company is based in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey . Such rules should be keyed to the price and average
daily volume for stocks, he said. Knight and Chicago-based Getco
are market makers at NYSE.  Risk Management  The SEC should adopt risk-management policies for automated
markets that it outlined more than 20 years ago but never made
compulsory, and require public venues to communicate better
during trading failures such as the IPOs by Facebook and Bats
Global Markets Inc.,  William O’Brien , CEO of Jersey City-based
Direct Edge Holdings LLC, the fourth-largest owner of U.S.  stock
exchanges , wrote in testimony. Computer malfunctions led Bats to
withdraw its offering on March 23. Facebook shares began trading
on May 18.  On both days, “we had no greater visibility into what was
occurring than the average retail investor,” wrote O’Brien,
whose venues compete with Bats. “No hotline, no market-wide
escalation procedures, no nothing.”  The immunity exchanges have from financial liability for
technology malfunctions should be removed,  Dan Mathisson , head
of U.S. equity trading at Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG,
wrote in  testimony . Requiring for-profit exchanges to be
responsible for their mistakes would lead to fewer breakdowns in
their systems, he said.  Equity Share  Technology advances and changes to regulations over the
last 15 years have cut NYSE’s share of  stock trading  to 21
percent from 82 percent in 2002, according to data compiled by
NYSE and Bloomberg. Competition and a congressionally driven
reduction of the increments in which shares are priced to 1 cent
from sixteenths of a dollar led to a pricing model known as
maker-taker, in which exchanges pay firms for providing quotes
to help compensate for a shrinking spread.  Fees that fund the credits come from firms that execute
against orders already at the exchanges, with the markets
earning the difference. Most exchanges offer pricing that
targets specific types of investors or firms that trade a lot,
including through volume benefits. The SEC capped the maximum
fee to trade with bids and offers at 30 cents per 100 shares.  The  Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act , signed into law by
President  Barack Obama  April 5, requires the SEC to conduct a
study about the effect of decimalization on IPOs and whether
smaller companies should continue to be traded in 1-cent
increments. Shares of emerging-growth companies, those with
annual revenue of less than $1 billion, could be traded with a
5-cent increment, Joyce said.  Tick Sizes  Daniel Coleman , CEO of Getco, said in written  testimony 
that the tick size should be correlated with a stock’s price, as
in  Europe , increasing for more costly shares and shrinking to
less than a penny for lower-priced ones. The SEC doesn’t allow
tick sizes smaller than 1 cent for shares above $1. Bigger
increments may allow orders to pool at fewer price points,
enabling investors to trade more shares and giving greater
incentives to firms to supply bids and offers.  The SEC should start a pilot program to study the impact of
larger tick sizes on smaller and mid-size companies as part of a
broader examination of decimalization, Jim Toes, president and
CEO of the New York-based Security Traders Association, said in
written testimony.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  also supports a pilot program
to test larger increments.  Exchange Owners  NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the biggest owners
of American stock exchanges, urged legislators to support
changes to rules that led to a proliferation of alternative
venues that draw orders away from their markets, according to a
written presentation to staff of the House Committee on
Financial Services obtained by Bloomberg. Dark pools and brokers
who match orders away from markets should provide better prices
than those available publicly or offer quotes at the best levels
if they want to trade outside exchanges, the companies said.  Such a requirement is known as a trade-at rule since
brokers would have to meet more obligations to trade at the same
prices offered on exchanges. NYSE Euronext, based in New York,
also called for more orders to contribute to price discovery on
exchanges instead of trading elsewhere.  “The SEC has permitted non-exchange trading centers to
create a very sophisticated web of connectivity which allows
them to give select groups of traders and clients access to
those orders before anyone else -- each with its own level of
conflicted interest,” Niederauer wrote. “It is only after
select customers have determined they do not want to execute the
order that the order finds its way into the public markets.”  Best Execution  While brokers have a duty to get the best execution for
clients, their desire for profit and “lack of independence and
objectivity” affect their decisions, he said.  Almost a third of U.S. equities volume  occurs  away from
exchanges, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
includes buying and selling in dark pools, by traditional human
intermediaries at brokers or through so-called wholesalers who
execute orders from individual investors sent by retail
securities firms. Orders executed away from exchanges can’t
trade at prices that are inferior to the best quotes available
on exchanges and often get minimally better prices.  The largest U.S. dark pool is Credit Suisse’s Crossfinder.
It traded 126 million shares daily in April, or about 1.9
percent of U.S. equities volume, while all dark pools accounted
for 13.6 percent of trading that month, according to data
compiled by Rosenblatt Securities Inc.  Broker Owners  The SEC should allow alternative venues to become exchanges
without a limit on the ownership stake of a broker, Mathisson of
Credit Suisse wrote. The agency should lift the 20 percent
ceiling on a broker’s stake in a regulated exchange, he said.  Greg Tusar, head of U.S. electronic trading at Goldman
Sachs Execution & Clearing, a unit owned by New York-based
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said in a phone interview last week
that getting rid of maker-taker pricing would enable brokers to
compare bids and offers across venues more fairly. It would also
end the need for a market operator to own multiple exchanges to
provide different pricing to attract orders from specific types
of investors, he said.  “If you eliminate maker-taker fees, you could more easily
say that all bids and offers are the same and should be treated
equally, which would be an important prerequisite for any
discussion of a trade-at rule,” Tusar said. “Different fees
make it very difficult to compare bids and offers across
venues.”  Trade Rebates  Outlawing pricing that permits exchanges to give rebates to
market makers would cause the bid-ask spread to widen, forcing
investors to pay more when they buy, Getco’s Coleman said. While
transaction credits help market makers provide better prices,
Getco doesn’t use “trading strategies that are designed solely
to earn a rebate,” he wrote.  Brokers that send orders to exchanges offering rebates when
a firm takes liquidity -- instead of when a firm provides orders
against which others can execute -- should be examined by
regulators to ensure the securities firms aren’t making
decisions that hurt their clients, Coleman wrote. Market makers
that supply orders on those markets that reverse the traditional
pricing must pay to do so, instead of collecting a rebate.  “While the SEC has brought up certain issues of unfairness
since about 2008, they’ve done very little,” Sal Arnuk, a
partner at Themis Trading LLC in Chatham, New Jersey, said in a
phone interview. “We wouldn’t be having this discussion if we
hadn’t seen massive equity market withdrawals since the flash
crash. Investors don’t trust the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  