-- Pluristem in Talks With Drugmakers on PLX-PAD Licensing
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-06-20T14:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/pluristem-in-talks-with-drugmakers-on-plx-pad-licensing.html
Pluristem Therapeutics Inc. (PSTI) , a
developer of placenta-based stem-cell therapies, said it has
been in contact with drugmakers to set up partnerships for its
flagship blood-circulation disease treatment PLX-PAD.  Pluristem wants to be ready to market PLX-PAD as soon as it
receives regulatory approval, Chief Executive Officer Zami Aberman said in an interview, without identifying potential
partners. After completing two initial clinical trials involving
different forms of peripheral artery disease, or PAD, Pluristem
plans to start a late-stage study in 2013 of PLX-PAD’s
effectiveness in the disease’s critical limb ischemia stage.  “We are talking to more than one of the larger
pharmaceutical companies about the possibility of outlicensing
our treatment,” Aberman said by phone from  Boston . “We are not
under pressure as we are sitting on about $40 million in cash,
but if the deal is good enough, we’ll take it.”  The company’s  stock rose  as much as 3.9 percent and was up
2.6 percent at $2.37 as of 9:58 a.m. in  New York .  Pluristem’s PLX technology derives cells from placental
material, releasing growth factors that promote blood flow,
wound healing and artery and vein development to treat a range
of ailments. The company is building a manufacturing center near
its headquarters in Haifa,  Israel , with capacity to provide
treatments for more than 150,000 patients.  ‘Promising’ Technology  “The fact that they are building this factory even before
they have any partnership shows they are taking this effort upon
their shoulders,” said Sabina Podval, an analyst at Leader &
Co. Investment House Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . “Pluristem wants to
become a manufacturer of  stem cells  in a large scale for the
bio-pharma industry. Of course there’s a long way to go, but
their technology is promising.”  Because they don’t come from embryos or unborn babies,
placental cells help the  company  avoid the ethical and legal
debate that surrounds embryonic stem-cell research. Placental
cells also aren’t rejected by recipients, which can occur when
tissue is transplanted from one person to another.  PAD arises when there is significant narrowing of large
arteries supplying blood to the body’s extremities, most
commonly the legs. The narrowing is usually caused by
cholesterol placquing in the artery and can lead to amputation.
About 4 percent of the  U.S. population  over 40 years of age
suffers from PAD, and the market for treatment is worth about $4
billion, according to  Pluristem’s website .  Results from the PLX-PAD trials so far have been “solid,”
Leader & Co.’s Podval said.  2011 Agreement  Pluristem agreed last year to license stem cells to  United
Therapeutics Corp. (UTHR)  to develop a drug for pulmonary hypertension
that will target a $3 billion market. United Therapeutics will
finance clinical studies and development costs of the treatment
and may pay a total of $55 million to Pluristem, including $7
million up front.  Other conditions for which Pluristem is conducting trials
of stem-cell treatments include strokes, multiple sclerosis and
nerve pain.  Pluristem, which is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market in
the U.S., is valued at about $106 million. The three analysts
tracked by Bloomberg who cover Pluristem have buy or outperform
 recommendations  on the shares.  The stock jumped 13 percent on May 9, the biggest gain in
13 months, after the company said a 7-year-old girl suffering
from an aplastic bone marrow experienced a reversal of her
condition following an intramuscular injection of its cells.  “Those results sparked a lot of interest in our
treatment,” Aberman said. “Of course we will need more data to
make a more conclusive declaration.”  Pluristem is also in talks with some governments, including
 Germany , Israel and the U.S., for grants to conduct large
clinical trials of a treatment to counter exposure to radiation,
Aberman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Jerusalem at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  