-- Pound Weakens Against Euro as Inflation Slows
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-06-19T15:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/pound-weakens-versus-euro-yen-as-inflation-slows.html
The pound weakened against the euro
and gilts rose as a report showed inflation slowed to the least
since November 2009, strengthening the case for the  Bank of
England  to resume asset purchases to revive the economy.  Sterling weakened against the euro for the first time in
three days, paring gains that pushed it yesterday to the
strongest level in almost a week. The Bank of England is due to
publish minutes of its June meeting tomorrow, in which policy
makers may indicate their stance on quantitative easing. The
central bank said it will sell 5 billion pounds ($7.87 billion)
of debt tomorrow in the first Extended Collateral Term Repo
Facility designed to reduce financial-stability risks.  “There has been a fairly consistent tendency for sterling
to outperform on positive inflation surprises and underperform
on negative surprises, and that’s again what we are seeing
today,” said  Adam Cole , global head of foreign-exchange at  RBC
Capital Markets  in  London . “We may see some softness as the
markets builds in more expectation of QE.”  The pound fell 0.5 percent to 80.68 pence per euro at 4:50
p.m. London time. It advanced to 80.23 pence yesterday, the
strongest level since June 12. It gained 0.4 percent to $1.5729.  Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 3 percent increase in April, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in London. That’s the weakest
since November 2009. Economists had forecast a gain of 3
percent, the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey showed.
From April, prices fell 0.1 percent, the first drop in that
period since records began in 1996.  Oil, Food Costs  Declines by the pound may be limited amid speculation
central banks, including the  European Central Bank  and the
 Federal Reserve , will also add to stimulus measures, according
to Michael Sneyd, a currency strategist at BNP Paribas in SA in
London.  “We are not too concerned about the outlook for QE because
we also expect easing from the ECB and the Fed,” said Sneyd,
who expects the U.K. currency to trade at $1.75 by year-end. The
measures announced last week are “positive for the U.K. economy
and for sterling,” he added.  BNP Paribas’ forecasts for the pound are the most bullish
among 52 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg News. The
median forecast is for the currency to end 2012 at $1.56.  G-20 Summit  Sterling has appreciated 1.5 percent this year, the second-
best performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, after the  New Zealand
dollar , as investors sought U.K. assets as a haven from  Europe ’s
debt crisis. The euro dropped 2.1 percent.  G-20 leaders began a two-day meeting in  Mexico  yesterday as
Spain’s borrowing costs surged to a euro-era record and
elections in  Greece  failed to damp the threat of debt-crisis
contagion.  Two-year note yields were little changed at 0.24 percent
after falling to 0.173 percent yesterday, the lowest on record.
Ten-year gilt yields were five basis points higher at 1.72
percent.  Gilts have returned 2.3 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds advanced 3.3 percent
and Treasuries gained 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  