-- Prudential Taps Sleyster to Manage $330 Billion Portfolio
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-06-19T14:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/prudential-taps-sleyster-to-manage-330-billion-portfolio.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, named Scott Sleyster to the
new position of chief investment officer, where he will be
responsible for about $330 billion in assets.  Sleyster was CIO for the U.S. operations, a post that will
be filled by Tim Schmidt, who joined the company in 2010 as
managing director and oversaw asset-liability management for the
retirement and group-insurance business, the Newark, New Jersey-
based company said in a statement today.  Prudential’s portfolio includes more than $250 billion in
fixed-income assets, led by holdings of corporate debt, foreign-
 government bonds  and mortgage-backed securities. Steve Napoli,
who was head of international  portfolio management , was named
CIO for international insurance. Napoli and Schmidt will report
to Sleyster, according to Scot Hoffman, a spokesman for the
company. Vice Chairman Mark Grier will oversee Sleyster.  “We are fortunate to have a deep pool of management
talent,” Grier said in the statement. “All of these executives
are well suited for their new roles.”  Life insurers including  Aflac Inc. (AFL)  and No. 1 MetLife Inc.,
hired CIOs in 2011 as near record-low interest rates pressured
returns on bonds. Insurers hold the securities to back
obligations to policyholders and generate profits.  Takehiko Fukuda, who was CIO for international insurance,
becomes deputy president of Japan’s Gibraltar Life Insurance. He
joined Prudential in 2005 and served as CIO of Gibraltar before
taking the international post. Sleyster joined Prudential in
1987 in the private placement sector of Prudential Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Norton in  New York  at 
 Snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  