-- Public Sector Workers Digging in to Save Pensions Under Assault
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/public-sector-workers-digging-in-to-save-pensions-under-assault.html
Leaders of the largest U.S. union of
public-sector workers are vowing to fight efforts by state and
local governments to balance their budgets with cuts to employee
benefits even as voters have sided with that strategy.  Delegates to the biannual convention of the 1.6 million-
member  American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees  meeting this week in  Los Angeles , said their members
should get what has been promised them.  “When we defend our benefits and retirement security,
we’re fighting for the survival of the middle class,” AFSCME’s
retiring president,  Gerald McEntee , said in remarks prepared for
his keynote address at the Los Angeles Convention Center. “And
when we stand up for collective bargaining, we are fighting for
the future of America.”  States were $1.38 trillion short of the amount they need to
meet their obligations for retiree benefits in their 2010 budget
year, according to a  study  by the Pew Center on the States in
Washington released yesterday. That figure, up 9 percent from
the year before, includes $757 billion in unfunded pension
obligations and $627 billion for retiree health.  Two weeks ago, voters in  San Diego  and  San Jose ,
 California , approved ballot measures to restructure benefits for
municipal workers after the cities said they couldn’t afford
them. A number of states, including Wisconsin, Indiana and Ohio,
have taken steps to limit collective bargaining for public
employees.  Retirement Benefits  “Public employees should have no better retirement
benefits than the taxpayers they serve,” San Diego Mayor Jerry Sanders said in a statement after voters approved a
restructuring of benefits.  McEntee, whose successor is scheduled to be selected June
21, reminded the workers that fighting over rights and benefits
have gone on for decades, according to the remarks that were
distributed after his address, which was closed to reporters.  Threatened cuts to benefits is the subject of workshops at
the convention as well as informal discussions among the 5,000
attendees.  “If you paid into it, you should get it,” David Mariasi,
a financial aid officer at  Eastern Connecticut State University 
in Willimantic,  Connecticut , representing Local 2836 at the
convention, said in an interview. Mariasi has gone three out of
four years without a pay increase with the promise it was
helping fund his pension.  Unions representing nurses, correction officers, child-care
workers and trash haulers say they are wrongfully maligned by
politicians who claim pension cuts are needed to avoid a
default.  ‘Whipping Boy’  “We recognize we have to share the sacrifice, but should
not be a whipping boy for every politician out there,” said
Danny Donohue, who heads AFSCME’s largest local, the Civil
Service Employee Association of New York, in an interview.  Donohue, who is running to succeed McEntee, who has
overseen the union since 1981, said the unions understand budget
concerns and a need to work with lawmakers.  “It’s ironic we’re the ones picked on because we have
pensions and health care because we gave up pay increases for
that,” Donohue said. “In the endgame, we just want to have a
decent retirement.”  To take away what was promised is unfair, said Santos
Crespo Jr., the president of  Local 372  in  New York , which
represents board of education employees.  “How is that? Where did the initial money go? Why don’t
you have it anymore?” asked Crespo, 62, standing outside the
convention hall.  Unfunded Obligations  The unfunded obligations have grown in recent years as
prolonged unemployment and demand for services followed the
longest recession since the Great Depression. Most states cover
such expenses on a pay-as-you-go basis, making such payments
increasingly difficult.  The Pew report blamed a combination of investment losses in
public pensions and a failure to set aside enough money, because
of other priorities or drops in state revenue due to economic
downturns.  Workers “have been paying into it; it was the government
that was not fulfilling their obligations,” said Francis Ryan,
a history professor at  Temple University  who has written a book
about AFSCME.  Workers have little chance of holding onto their entire
pensions, he said. Politicians and voters won’t come to their
rescue, and concessions will need to be made to ensure there is
some retirement, he said.  Further Compromise  Many workers are already resigned to working longer with
fewer benefits, and putting off retirement for a few years.
Further compromise will be made more difficult by lack of trust
among negotiators, as union leaders say they are convinced
Republican governors, such asScott Walker of Wisconsin and  John Kasich  of  Ohio , are as interested in breaking the union as they
are in balancing their budgets.  Walker survived a union-led effort two weeks ago to recall
him. Kasich-backed legislation to limit collective bargaining
was thrown out by a referendum.  The governors, both Republicans, target public-sector
unions because they are as a source of cash and votes for
Democrats, said Ryan.  “They could have made minor changes, but they wanted to
wipe us out,” said Michael Bauer of Local 3557 in Ohio, which
maintains roads, while walking into the convention hall.  Unions scored a victory last week when California’s
Democratic-controlled legislature sent to Governor  Jerry Brown  a
bill without proposed language that would have authorized the
governor to furlough workers if unions balked at a proposed one-
year, 5 percent payroll reduction.  Changes Needed  Bauer, 56, is resigned to working a few more years than he
planned and seeing cuts in his health care. Pensions must be
changed to give workers more responsibility for management, like
a 401(k), he said. Though the workers deserve the full promised
pension, they are willing to compromise.  “It’s not like we didn’t pay into it,” Bauer said. “The
workers paid into the plan.”  Some unions have negotiated deals to head off more
draconian cuts. Last month, the mayor and union leaders in
Providence,  Rhode Island , agreed to cut pensions for workers,
including police and firefighters, while preventing bankruptcy
for the city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in  Washington  at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  