-- Rand Falls, Snapping 5-Days of Gains, on Spain Debt Woes
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-06-19T14:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/rand-falls-snapping-5-days-of-gains-on-spain-debt-woes.html
The rand gained for a sixth day and
yields fell to the lowest in more than three years as the
 Federal Reserve  prepared to consider stimulus measures and the
European Union moved toward renegotiating Greece’s bailout.  South Africa ’s currency climbed 0.8 percent to 8.2236 per
dollar as of 3:39 p.m. in Johannesburg, the longest winning
streak since July. Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due
2021 dropped 16 basis points to 7.40 percent.  Fed policy makers will begin a two-day meeting today as
Group of 20 leaders focus their response to Europe’s financial
crisis at a summit in  Mexico . Further stimulus would boost
demand for riskier assets, including the rand, amid optimism
policy makers in Europe are taking steps to address the debt
crisis, including adapting Greece’s aid program. Spanish bond
yields declined after the nation sold 3.04 billion euros ($3.8
billion) of bills, compared with a target of 3 billion euros.  “With the Fed meeting this week, the firmer bias could
remain intact” for the rand, Nomvuyo Guma, a currency
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said in
e-mailed comments. “The rand remains at the mercy of offshore
developments.”  The rand’s three-month implied volatility against the
dollar has climbed 58 basis points in the past month to 19.58
percent, the highest out of the 16 most-traded currencies, as
traders anticipate wider price swings in coming weeks.  Greek Bailout  A European Union official said a politically acceptable
path for renegotiating  Greece ’s bailout conditions will be
sought. Once a government is formed, representatives of the so-
called troika of the EU,  International Monetary Fund  and
 European Central Bank  will travel to  Athens  and evaluate any
requests for adaptations in the aid program, the official told
reporters on condition of anonymity in Brussels today.  Emerging-market stocks gained, boosting the benchmark index
to the highest in a month, and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index
of raw materials rose. South Africa’s benchmark stock gauge
advanced for a third day.  Bond yields fell after data showed employment growth slowed
in the first quarter, prompting investors to bet the central
bank will cut interest rates to boost  Africa ’s biggest economy.  South Africa, which has the highest unemployment rate of 61
countries tracked by Bloomberg, added 5,000 non-farm jobs in the
quarter through March, Statistics South Africa reported. Non-
farm payrolls grew 0.1 percent in the quarter, compared with
growth of 0.3 percent the previous quarter.  ‘Slowing Growth’  While the central bank’s policy mandate “does not
explicitly include a focus on employment creation, one must
assume that the flexibility of their inflation mandate allows
room to consider the impact of slowing growth on the  labour
market ,” Theuns de Wet and Mamello Matikinca, analysts at Rand
Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, wrote in e-mailed comments. “A
weak reading in today’s report will therefore be supportive of
the interest rate bulls.”  Two-year  interest-rate swaps , a gauge of investor
expectations of average  interest rates  over the next two years,
dipped 4.75 basis points to 5.4625, the lowest since November.
The contracts pay 12.5 basis points less than Johannesburg
Interbank Agreed Rate, indicating traders are pricing in a
central bank rate cut. Swaps have declined from as high as 6.21
percent on March 21.  South Africa’s Treasury today auctioned 500 million rand
($61 million) of 7.75 percent bonds due 2023 for the first time
at an average yield of 7.77 percent, the central bank said. It
also sold 1.6 billion rand of notes maturing in 2017 and 2021.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  