-- RBA June Rate Cut Debate ‘Finely Balanced,’ Minutes Show
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-06-19T01:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/rba-june-rate-cut-debate-finely-balanced-minutes-show.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia
lowered  interest rates  this month after a “finely balanced”
discussion that the domestic economy was holding up as global
prospects worsened, minutes of its June 5 meeting showed.  “There was clear evidence suggesting a softening in global
conditions, and uncertainty about the future in Europe had
increased significantly,”  minutes  released today in Sydney
showed two weeks after the overnight cash rate target was cut by
25 basis points to 3.5 percent. Thirteen of 27 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the move, four forecast a
half-point reduction and 10 expected no change.  “With  inflation  expected to remain in the lower part of
the targeting range over the next year or so, members considered
that there was scope for monetary policy to be a little more
supportive of domestic activity,” the minutes showed.  The 25-point cut combined with earlier moves would provide
“a measure of stimulus” as global turmoil emanating from
Europe threatened to weigh on consumer behavior, the minutes
showed. Since RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s decision, the
Australian dollar gained about 4 percent as government reports
showed stronger-than-forecast domestic hiring last month and
annual growth in the first quarter was the best since 2007.  “Recent domestic data generally had not suggested a
significant weakening in conditions compared with the forecasts
a month earlier,” the minutes showed.  The Australian dollar was little changed at $1.0125 as of
11:32 a.m. from $1.0127 before the minutes were released.  Rates Outlook  Investors pared bets on a quarter percentage-point rate cut
at the RBA’s next meeting July 3 to an 85 percent chance, down
from a 92 percent probability earlier today, according to swaps
market data compiled by Bloomberg.  Two days after Stevens eased this month, the central bank
in  China , Australia’s largest trading partner, reduced rates for
the first time since 2008 as Europe’s turmoil threatened to
disrupt the global economy.  In today’s minutes, the RBA said Europe’s crisis was
occurring “in the context of ongoing weakness in economic
activity” in that region. In the U.S., the outlook “remained
clouded” by fiscal tightening expected next year, minutes
showed, and China’s growth pace had slowed “a little further.”  Greek Crisis  Greece’s largest pro-bailout parties, New Democracy and
Pasok, won enough seats in an election June 17 to forge a
parliamentary majority, easing concern the country was headed
toward an imminent exit from the euro.  Political leaders in Europe insist  Greece  enact spending
cuts promised in return for 240 billion euros ($302 billion) in
rescue packages since 2010 while holding out the possibility of
granting extra time to meet targets for narrowing the  budget
deficit .  By contrast, Australia’s economic performance and fiscal
situation offer “lessons for the world,” Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard  said yesterday on the sidelines of a Group of 20 meeting
in Mexico.  Her government in May forecast a A$1.54 billion ($1.56
billion) surplus for the year starting July 1, ending four years
of deficits. Balancing the budget would give the RBA “maximum
room” to lower rates if needed to boost growth, she said in an
interview the day after her fiscal plan was released.  The RBA has cut the overnight cash rate target four times
in the past eight months -- by 25 basis points at successive
meetings in November and December, by 50 points on May 1 and by
another 25 points this month.  Mining Boom  At 3.5 percent, the nation’s benchmark borrowing cost is
still the highest among major developed economies. Policy rates
are near zero in the U.S. and  Japan , 0.5 percent in the U.K., 1
percent in the euro area and in  Canada , and 2.5 percent in  New
Zealand .  Powering the Australian economy is the biggest resource
boom since prospectors in New South  Wales  set off a gold rush in
the 1850s. The latest bonanza -- for  iron ore , coal and natural
gas -- is bringing investment projects the government estimates
to be worth about A$500 billion and helped keep the  unemployment
rate  at 5.1 percent last month. That’s lower than 8.2 percent in
the U.S. and 11 percent in the euro area.  Mining companies include  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto
Group are benefiting from surging demand for steel and
electricity in emerging economies including China and India.  Australia’s gross domestic product expanded 4.3 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier, making it one of the
fastest-growing developed economies. The number of people
employed rose by 38,900 last month, capping the best January-May
period in five years, government figures showed this month.  Currency’s Effect  Still, a local currency that’s advanced about 44 percent
since the start of 2009 against the  U.S. dollar  has hurt
businesses and workers in the tourism, education and
manufacturing industries.  Consumer confidence  has stagnated in
recent months as households remained concerned that  Europe ’s
fiscal crisis will derail the global economy.  Reviewing the outlook for the domestic economy, the RBA saw
“continued moderate growth,” with the unemployment rate
expected to move “somewhat higher over the coming quarters,”
according to the minutes. RBA members were briefed that a “very
large pipeline” of mining remained set to boost  capital
investment , the minutes showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  