-- RBS to Cut 618 Financial-Planning Jobs, Charge for Advice
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-06-19T15:53:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/rbs-to-eliminate-618-financial-planning-jobs-charge-for-advice.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
the U.K.’s biggest taxpayer-controlled lender, is eliminating
618 branch-based financial advisers as regulators force lenders
to charge clients for the service.  RBS is also creating 351 financial-planning jobs as a
result of the rule changes, the Edinburgh-based bank said in a
statement today.  The Financial Services Authority’s  Retail Distribution
Review  will from the end of 2012 prevent the payment of
commissions to advisers, and lenders are preparing to charge for
the service.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said in June last year it was
cutting 700 employees offering face-to-face advice in branches
while Barclays Plc, Britain’s second-largest bank, said in
January last year it would cut 1,000 employees as a result of
the regulations.  “These latest RBS job losses are brutal,”  David Fleming ,
a Unite labor union national officer, said in a statement.
“Unite, for some time, has had major concerns about the
appalling manner in which these workers at the bank have been
treated.”  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  has shrunk
assets by more than 700 billion pounds ($1.1 trillion) and cut
about 36,000 jobs since he took over from  Fred Goodwin  in 2008
at the bank. RBS said in January it would cut about 3,500 jobs
at its investment bank, citing volatile markets and the cost of
new U.K. regulation.  “Having to cut jobs is the most difficult part of our work
to rebuild RBS and repay taxpayers for their support,” RBS
spokesman Michael Strachan said in the statement. “We will do
all we can to support our staff, offer redeployment
opportunities wherever possible, keeping compulsory redundancies
to an absolute minimum.”  RBS gained 3.4 percent to 243.3 pence a share in  London 
today. The bank trades at a level equivalent to less than half
the price at which the taxpayer bought its 82 percent stake in
the lender for about 45.5 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  