-- Risk Panel, Lloyds Capital, Pharma Overtime: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-19T12:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/risk-panel-formed-lloyds-capital-pharma-overtime-compliance.html
U.S. financial regulators should
speed up designation of systemically important nonbank firms to
bolster efforts to prevent a repeat of the 2008 credit crisis,
according to members of the newly formed Systemic Risk Council.  The council, a group of former regulators, lawmakers and
business leaders holding an inaugural meeting in Washington
yesterday, was formed to counter industry lobbying that members
say may undermine Dodd-Frank Act measures enacted in response to
a collapse that led to U.S. bailouts for the biggest banks and
nonbank companies including  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   The panel is led by former Chairman Sheila Bair of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Bair, now a senior adviser to
Washington-based Pew Charitable Trusts, said in an interview
that while the panel is not anti-industry, “it’s independent of
the industry.”  Council members, who have criticized delays in Dodd-Frank
implementation, plan to monitor the regulatory overhaul and
identify systemic risks to U.S. financial markets. They will
provide commentary on, and release reports to, the  Financial
Stability Oversight Council  and the Treasury Department’s Office
of Financial Research, both created by Dodd-Frank.  The group’s members also include former U.S. Treasury
Secretary Paul O’Neill; John S. Reed, former co-chairman and co-
chief executive officer of  Citigroup Inc. (C) ; and Brooksley Born,
former chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  will
serve as the council’s senior adviser.  Compliance Policy  EU Bonus Curbs Won’t Be Weakened by Lawmakers, Lamberts Says  European Union lawmakers rejected an attempt by national
governments to water down a planned cap on banker bonuses as
part of negotiations on a Basel capital law.  Political groups spurned a compromise proposal by Denmark,
which holds the presidency of the EU, to cap bonuses at two or
even three times a  banker’s  fixed pay, with a loophole that
would allow even larger bonuses approved by shareholders, said
Philippe Lamberts, a Belgian member of the EU Parliament. The
offer was made during meetings on the draft law, which must be
approved by governments and the assembly.  Public outrage and shareholder rebellions have forced some
banks, such as  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Citigroup Inc., to retreat from
their initial pay plans. Lawmakers and national governments
adopted competing proposals last month to implement financial
regulation rules, with the parliament seeking a one-to-one ratio
on bonuses to pay, and the 27 nations not including any pay
standards.  Preben Aamann, a spokesman for the Danish presidency,
declined to comment on the negotiations on the draft law.  EU Isn’t Considering Full-Fledged Spain Bailout, Official Says  The European Union isn’t considering a full-fledged
economic bailout for Spain and remains focused on a more limited
banking-sector rescue, an EU official said.  Spain this month became the fourth euro member to seek a
bailout since the start of the region’s debt crisis more than
two years ago, with a request for as much as 100 billion euros
($126 billion) to rescue its banks.  Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy characterized the deal as a
credit line for banks and an endorsement of his policies.  Spain hasn’t submitted a formal request for the bank
rescue, the official said yesterday on condition of anonymity
because the talks aren’t completed.  The details of the proposed bailout will take shape after
the June 21 conclusion of independent reviews of Spain’s banks.  Compliance Action  U.K. Bankers Face Bans as FSA Wields ‘Weapon of Last Resort’  London bankers are increasingly being banned for life for
breaking market abuse rules by a regulator that is trying to
burnish its image as a tougher watchdog.  The Financial Services Authority banned 71 people from the
banking and mortgage industries in the year that ended in April
2011. That compares with 56 the previous year and only four in
2003. The FSA will put out the latest figures in a report to be
published today.  The use of stricter penalties comes as bankers remain
pressured by forces stemming from the financial and sovereign
debt crises. European lawmakers have introduced legislation to
cap bonuses, and employment in the London financial industry may
fall to its lowest levels in 16 years.  The FSA, which will be split into two separate regulators
at the end of this year, was heavily criticized by lawmakers
following the 2008 financial crisis for failing to crack down on
wrongdoing, including insider trading. Its “light-touch”
regulation model during the boom times was widely blamed for
allowing banks to take unnecessary risks.  Getting around the bans generally requires moving to
another country outside the FSA’s jurisdiction.  For more, click here.  AIJ’s Asakawa Among Four Arrested for Suspected Fraud in Japan  AIJ Investment Advisors Co. President Kazuhiko Asakawa, who
acknowledged hiding losses on pension money his firm managed,
was among four people arrested on suspicion of fraud today by
Tokyo police.  AIJ director Shigeko Takahashi, head of brokerage firm ITM
Securities Co. Hideaki Nishimura and ITM official Koichi Kosuge
were also detained, a Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department
spokeswoman said on condition of anonymity, citing police
policy. They allegedly defrauded pension funds in Tokyo and
Nagano Prefecture of about 7 billion yen ($89 million), the
person said.  Japanese regulators said in March that Asakawa hid trading
losses by fabricating reports to attract pensions, a scandal
that raised concerns about the safety of retirement assets in
the world’s fastest aging nation. The SESC said today that it
conducted a fresh investigation into fraud by Asakawa and
Takahashi.  Two phone calls to AIJ’s office in Tokyo’s Nihonbashi
district today were directed to an automated recording that
didn’t take messages. A call made to ITM’s office in the same
building went unanswered.  Asakawa said in parliamentary testimony in April that he
never intended to lie to his Japanese clients. Nishimura,
president of ITM, told the Diet on April 13 that he was ordered
by Asakawa to hand the reports on net asset values of the Cayman
Island-based funds without checking the content.  For more, click here.  SMBC Nikko Told to Pay 200M Yen Penalty by Brokerage Association  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ’s brokerage unit was
told to pay 200 million yen as a penalty to the  Japan Securities
Dealers Association , the regulatory organization said in a
statement on its website.  The decision was based on
organization rules, according to the statement.  The penalty follows the business improvement order from
Japan’s Financial Services Agency issued on April 20. The
agency’s investigation unit found 23 sales staff at the
brokerage disclosed information to clients ahead of the
announcement of an unidentified company’s equity offering. SMBC
Nikko was ordered by the Financial Services Agency to improve
compliance and internal controls after the breach.  Siemens Settles EU Probe With Areva Over Nuclear Joint Venture  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Areva SA settled an antitrust probe with
European Union regulators after cutting back a non-compete deal
over a nuclear-reactor joint venture.  The European Commission is satisfied with the companies’
offer to reduce a non-compete clause to three years, dating from
Areva’s 2009 acquisition of sole control of the joint venture
Areva NP and to drop the non-compete clause for products not
related to the civil nuclear technology. The EU antitrust
regulator opened the investigation in 2010.  Siemens and Areva can be fined up to 10 percent of their
yearly revenue if they violate today’s settlement.  Siemens has said that the offer won’t result in any
payments by Siemens or financial obligations. Siemens decided to
end its involvement in nuclear technology after the Fukushima
disaster in Japan last year.  Lloyds Should Boost Capital With Debt Exchange, Hohn Says  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s second biggest publicly
owned lender, should boost capital by exchanging some of its
debt securities for common equity, the hedge fund Children’s
Investment Fund Management LLP said.  Lloyds’s Enhanced Capital Notes shouldn’t count toward core
capital because the threshold at which they convert into equity
is too low, Christopher Hohn, managing partner of London-based
TCI, wrote in a June 14 letter to  Andrew Bailey , a copy of which
was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Bailey is the head of U.K. banking supervision at the
Financial Services Authority. The U.K. owns about 40 percent of
the London-based lender.  Lloyds would have to suffer “a 20 billion-pound ($31
billion) post-tax loss” before the FSA could force the company
to issue equity, Hohn wrote. The fund called on the regulator to
disallow the ECNs or risk damaging the FSA’s reputation and the
economy by allowing an “under-capitalized U.K. banking system
to remain unchallenged and uncorrected.”  TCI successfully pushed in 2007 for the breakup of ABN Amro
Holding NV, sparking the biggest takeover battle in the
financial-services industry.  A Lloyds spokeswoman, Nicole Sharp, declined to comment on
the contents of the letter. Officials at TCI declined to comment
on the firm’s interests in Lloyds.  For more, click here.  Separately, Lloyds Banking Group, of which the government
owns 40 percent, may float its 632 U.K. branches as an
independent bank, the London-based Times reported.  Prospects of a sale of the business, called Verde, to the
Co-operative Group Ltd. are fading, as some Co-op board members
feel the purchase would be too risky, the newspaper said. Unless
there’s a breakthrough in talks in the next few days, Lloyds is
likely to go ahead with plans for an initial public share
offering next year, the Times said.  Courts  Drugmakers Don’t Owe Sales Force Overtime, High Court Says  Drugmakers don’t have to pay overtime to their sales
representatives, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in a decision that
saves the industry billions of dollars and marks a defeat for
the Obama administration.  The justices, voting 5-4 in a case involving a
GlaxoSmithKline Plc unit, said pharmaceutical salespeople are
exempt from a federal wage-and-hour law. More than a dozen wage-
and-hour cases had been filed against drugmakers -- including
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and units of
 Novartis AG (NVS)  and  Merck & Co. (MRK)  -- by workers charged with
persuading doctors to prescribe the company’s products. Business
groups said billions of dollars were at stake.  The Obama administration threw its support behind the sales
representatives in a 2009 court filing. The administration said
the exemption in the Fair Labor Standards Act for “outside
salesmen” doesn’t apply to drug-industry representatives.  The court yesterday said that position wasn’t entitled to
any special deference because the Labor Department laid out its
views in court papers rather than through a formal rulemaking
proceeding.  The case split the court along ideological lines. Justice
Samuel Alito wrote the majority opinion, joined by Chief Justice
John Roberts and justices  Antonin Scalia ,  Anthony Kennedy  and
 Clarence Thomas .  The suit, which sought class action status, targeted
GlaxoSmithKline LLC, a U.S. unit of the London-based drugmaker.  The case is Christopher v. SmithKline Beecham, 11-204.  Morgan Stanley May Settle Sisters of Charity U.K. Bond Lawsuit  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is close to a settlement with two groups of
nuns, an Irish charity for veterinarians and 129 private
investors who say they lost $20 million in a bond sale.  Andrew Sutcliffe, a lawyer representing the private
investors, told a U.K. court yesterday that a settlement is
close to being reached by Irish investors who said the
investment bank failed to sell notes soon enough after they were
downgraded. No figures were discussed at the court hearing in
London.  The  Sisters of Charity of Jesus and Mary , the Holy Faith
Sisters, the Irish Veterinary Benevolent Fund and individual
investors in 2010 sued Morgan Stanley and Saturns Investments
Europe Plc, a special-purpose vehicle set up by the New York-
based bank.  The investors bought the notes through the Irish brokerage
firm Bloxham, which has since been liquidated, in 2005,
according to documents filed at the U.K. high court. Morgan
Stanley and Saturns waited until June 2009, after the price of
the underlying bonds had risen significantly, to redeem the
notes, the investors said.  Alon Riza, a spokesman for Stewarts Law LLP which
represents the 132 investors, didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment. Michael Wang, a spokesman for Morgan
Stanley in London, declined to comment.  The case is The Sisters of Charity of Jesus and Mary v.
Morgan Stanley & Co, 10/960, High Court of Justice, Queen’s
Bench Division (London).  Cioffi, Tannin Settlement With SEC Approved by U.S. Judge  A $1.05 million settlement between former Bear Stearns Cos.
hedge-fund managers  Ralph Cioffi  and Matthew Tannin and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission was approved by a U.S. judge
in Brooklyn, New York.  Cioffi agreed to pay $800,000 to settle the suit and Tannin
agreed to pay $250,000.  In November 2009, a federal jury in Brooklyn acquitted
Cioffi and Tannin of conspiracy and securities and wire fraud in
the first criminal trial stemming from a federal probe of the
collapse of the subprime-mortgage market. The men managed two
hedge funds that filed for bankruptcy in July 2007.  The SEC filed a related civil suit alleging the two men
misled investors about the funds’ deepening financial troubles
and their own holdings in the investment pools.  Edward Little, Cioffi’s lawyer in the SEC case, said he was
pleased with the accord in which neither Cioffi or Tannin admits
or denies the allegations.  Susan Brune, Tannin’s lawyer, said in a statement, “With
the swift jury verdict of acquittal in the criminal case and now
this SEC settlement, Mr. Tannin is pleased to have resolved
these matters.”  John Nestor, a spokesman for the SEC, didn’t return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on the judge’s approval of
the settlement.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cioffi,
08-cv-2457, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  Interviews/Hearings  Dimon Faces ‘Harsher and Crazier’ House Crowd in Second Round  Jamie Dimon  won’t get off as easy at his second
congressional hearing this month when he tries to explain how
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  lost at least $2 billion on trades that he
has said “violated common sense.”  The U.S. House Financial Services Committee will be a
tougher audience for Dimon when he testifies today after members
of the Senate Banking Committee spent much of their June 13
hearing complimenting the chief executive officer or asking his
advice on financial law, banking analysts said.  The House hearing will take more time and won’t be nearly
as controlled as Dimon faces more than 60 lawmakers, most of
whom are up for re-election in November and motivated to capture
local headlines, said Mark Calabria, director of financial
regulation studies at the Cato Institute and a former senior
aide to the Senate Banking Committee. Calabria predicted the
questions will be “harsher and crazier” to attract more press
coverage, noting the House always has “a bit more wildness to
it.”  Dimon is also speaking on the second panel, following
testimony from regulators including Securities and Exchange
Commissioner  Mary Schapiro  and Comptroller of the Currency
Thomas Curry. He faces Democrats who have pressed for tighter
regulations on Wall Street’s largest firms, including the co-
author of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. Lawmakers who have called to
shrink or break up the largest financial institutions are also
on the roster.  For more, click here.  Separately, Dimon, in prepared testimony for House hearing
today on JPMorgan, said the synthetic credit portfolio morphed
into something that created new, possibly larger risks than it
was meant to offset.  “As a result, we have let a lot of people down, and we are
sorry for it,” he said.  Testimony for the House Financial Services Committee
hearing was the same as Dimon’s prepared remarks last week
before Senate Banking Committee hearing.  Dimon, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Mary Schapiro and other regulatory chiefs are expected to
testify today.  The SEC is still reviewing causes and implications of
JPMorgan’s trading losses, Chairman Mary Schapiro said in
prepared remarks for today’s hearing.  “Once we have a fuller understanding of these issues, we
will be in a better position to determine whether additional
regulatory or legislative action is appropriate,” Schapiro said
in the prepared remarks.  While the SEC doesn’t discuss investigations publicly, the
agency’s main focus relates to “appropriateness and
completeness” of the bank’s financial reporting, other public
disclosures, financial accounting, and internal control over
reporting, she said.  London’s Status as Financial Center Under Threat, Sants Tells FT  London’s role as an international financial center is at
risk because business models aren’t responding quickly enough to
a new political and regulatory reality, Hector Sants, the
outgoing Financial Services Authority chief executive officer
told the Financial Times in an interview.  Sants cautioned that banks, brokers and insurers all
require “radical re-engineering” in the next five years to
reflect changes in savings patterns, the movement of growth to
emerging markets and stricter rules on in areas such as capital
and liquidity, according to the FT.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 