-- Romania May Delay IMF-Agreed Hidroelectrica Sale for 2012
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-06-19T13:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/romania-may-delay-imf-agreed-hidroelectrica-sale-for-2012-1-.html
Romania  may delay selling a minority
stake in Hidroelectrica SA that was agreed with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union, as the power
utility lacks liquidity to pay its bills and seeks to enter
insolvency.  The sale was agreed on in May and its postponement will be
discussed with the IMF and the EU after a court approves the
legal filings, Hidroelectrica Chairman Remus Vulpescu said in
Bucharest today. Vulpescu, who is also in charge of the industry
state asset-selling office, said he believes the IMF will be
“flexible” with the utility’s solutions.  “We didn’t eliminate or rule out the possibility of
getting money for Hidroelectrica through a share sale, but it
doesn’t seem possible this year,” Vulpescu told reporters.
“The main purpose of the insolvency procedure is to reorganize
the company and increase its efficiency through different
measures. There is not enough liquidity.”  Romania, which is using a second accord with the IMF and
the EU as a safeguard against the European sovereign-debt
crisis, seeks to stay within the 5 billion-euro ($6.3 billion)
precautionary loan and tries to meet its terms by selling state
assets this year.  The country pledged to sell 10 percent stakes in
Hidroelectrica and nuclear-power generator Nuclearelectrica SA
this year on the Bucharest Stock Exchange and 15 percent stakes
in natural-gas grid operator  Transgaz SA (TGN)  and gas producer Romgaz
SA. It also seeks to sell a majority stake in unprofitable
chemical company Oltchim SA.  No Bankruptcy  The insolvency won’t force the company to go into
bankruptcy. It is meant to help its reorganization and won’t
lead to cuts in power supplies to Hidroelectrica’s clients,
Vulpescu said. A judicial administrator will propose a
reorganization plan for Hidroelectrica which must be approved by
its creditors, including  Fondul Proprietatea SA (FP) , he said. The
restructuring won’t last more than 16 months to 18 months, he
added.  The government also pledged to its international lenders to
renegotiate some of Hidroelectrica’s bilateral contracts with
companies such as  Alro SA (ALR) , which are under investigation by EU
competition authorities for possible state aid in selling
electricity below market prices.  The Bucharest-based court has set the first hearing on
Hidroelectrica’s insolvency for tomorrow.  The government selected in April a group of banks and a
brokerage led by  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale SA (BRD)  to sell the
Hidroelectrica stake. The group also includes  Citigroup Inc., (C) 
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and local brokerage Intercapital Invest SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  