-- Romney Says Rubio Being Examined as Possible Running Mate
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/romney-says-rubio-is-being-examined-as-possible-running-mate.html
Marco Rubio is under consideration
for the No. 2 spot on the Republican national ticket,  Mitt Romney  said in denying a news report that suggested the Florida
senator has been excluded from the vice presidential
sweepstakes.  Rubio is being “thoroughly vetted as part of our process”
for picking a running mate, Romney told reporters in Holland,
 Michigan , yesterday as he concluded a five-day, six-state bus
tour.  Romney, 65, termed “entirely false” a story by ABC News
that Rubio, 41, wasn’t being vetted. “They know nothing about
the vice presidential selection or evaluation process,” he
said, referring to unnamed advisers cited in the ABC report.  The upshot of the news account was that Romney for the
first time confirmed a name as a candidate for the vice
presidential nomination.  “There are only two people in this country who know who
are being vetted and who are not, and that’s Beth Myers and
myself,” the presumptive Republican presidential nominee said,
referring to the longtime aide he named in late April to
spearhead the selection of a vice presidential nominee.  After issuing his statement, Romney took no questions.  Other Prospects  Romney made his comments as he wrapped up the bus tour that
began in  New Hampshire  and was ending in the state in which he
was born. At various stops he was joined by three others
mentioned in news reports as prospective running mates:
Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, Senator  Rob Portman  of
 Ohio  and former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty .  Rubio, a Cuban-American elected to the Senate in 2010, has
been touted as a running mate by some Republicans to help Romney
boost his standing among Hispanic voters. Those promoting him
include former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, the brother of one
former president and son of another.  Helping propel President  Barack Obama  to the White House in
the 2008 election was his showing among Hispanic voters, a group
he carried 67 percent to 31 percent over Republican  John McCain ,
according to exit polls. In this year’s election, Hispanic
voters could be crucial in determining who wins such swing
states as Florida, Colorado and Nevada.  A Bloomberg poll released yesterday shows Obama benefiting
politically from his June 15 decision to end deportations of
some illegal immigrants brought to the U.S. as children -- a
move that could make it tougher for Romney to attract Hispanic
support.  Among likely voters, 64 percent surveyed after Obama’s
announcement said they agreed with the policy, while 30 percent
said they disagreed. Independents backed the decision by better
than a 2-1.  Romney’s Response  Romney has been vague in responding to Obama’s decision,
saying that it complicates efforts he would make as president to
craft a “long-term solution” providing “certainty and
clarity” to the children of illegal immigrants.  During his battle to lock up the Republican nomination,
Romney used tougher rhetoric when discussing illegal
immigration, stressing his opposition to any proposal that gives
legal status to undocumented immigrants without first requiring
that they leave the U.S. He made no distinction at the time for
those illegal immigrants brought to the country as children.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Rubin at 
 jimrubin@bloomberg.net  