-- Rubber Glut Extends Bear Market Cutting Bridgestone Costs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-19T20:25:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/rubber-glut-extends-bear-market-cutting-bridgestone-costs.html
Rubber shortages are about to turn
into a flood as China, the biggest consumer, grows at the
slowest pace in three years, driving prices paid by  Bridgestone
Corp. (5108)  and other tiremakers to the lowest since 2009.  The surplus will reach 402,000 metric tons in the second
half, from a 134,000-ton deficit in the first six months, said
Chris Pardey, a former commodities trader at Cargill Inc. and
Noble Group Ltd. Futures, which entered a bear market last
month, will drop a further 20 percent to 200 yen a kilogram
($2,534 a metric ton) in Tokyo by the end of the year, the
lowest since October 2009, according to the median of 15 analyst
and trader estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  This quarter’s 23 percent decline is the worst since the
global financial crisis in 2008 and exceeds a 16 percent retreat
in commodities. The slump is reducing income for growers from
 Thailand  to  Ivory Coast  to  Indonesia  and costs for Bridgestone,
the world’s largest tiremaker. Shares of the Tokyo-based company
will advance 33 percent in the next 12 months, the average of 11
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.  “We do remain bearish,” said Singapore-based Pardey, who
is now the chief executive officer of RCMA Commodities Asia
Group and predicted in January that prices would decline because
of a weakening global economy. “There is potential for a
significant increase in stockpiles in the second half as
production picks up quickly and demand slows down.”  Raw Materials  Rubber fell 5.1 percent to 250 yen a kilogram on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange this year, 53 percent below the record 535.7
yen reached in February 2011. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  Index (MXWD) 
of 24  raw materials  lost 9.1 percent this year, and the MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities gained 3.7 percent.
Treasuries returned 2 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  Traders are increasingly bearish as production expands even
as prices slump. The median of 14 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg in January was for futures to drop as low as 240 yen
this year, a level reached June 4.  Farmers may extract a record 11.4 million tons this year,
exceeding demand of 11.1 million tons, according to Pardey. The
surplus will reach 320,000 tons, according to Prachaya Jumpasut,
the managing director of The Rubber Economist, a London-based
adviser to the industry.  Commercial Vehicles  Sales of trucks in  China  fell 6.1 percent in the first five
months as passenger vehicles grew 5.5 percent, China Association
of Automobile Manufacturers data show. A tire for a medium to
heavy commercial vehicle uses as much as 18 kilograms (40
pounds) of natural rubber on average, compared with less than 1
kilogram for a passenger car, according to Jeremie Capron, an
analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in  Singapore .  China accounts for 33 percent of global demand and tires
represent 70 percent of natural rubber consumption in the
country, according to Sri Trang ( Shanghai ) Ltd., a unit of
Thailand’s biggest publicly listed producer.  China’s economy 
will grow 7.9 percent in the three months to June, slowing for a
sixth consecutive quarter, the median of 27 economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Policy makers are seeking to halt the deceleration. Chinese
banks made record loans in May after the government cut the
amount of cash they must set aside as reserves for a third time
in six months. The central bank cut  interest rates  this month
for the first time since 2008. The U.S. Federal Reserve’s Open
Market Committee, which sets the course of policy, begins a two-
day meeting today.  Shanghai Exchange  The world’s largest emerging-market nations formalized
funding pledges to the  International Monetary Fund  at a meeting
in  Mexico  this week, boosting its lending power to protect the
world economy from  Europe ’s debt turmoil. With the addition of
new pledges, the Washington-based lender said it now has
received funding commitments of $456 billion, up from the
roughly $430 billion it said it had secured in April.  The government of Thailand, representing 31 percent of
global supply, is purchasing rubber domestically at above-market
rates to help farmers and said last month it will also buy more
than 10,000 tons from  Tokyo  and Shanghai bourses. Thailand and
Indonesia, the second-largest grower, are considering measures
including export delays and more purchases and are seeking
cooperation from  Malaysia , the third-biggest shipper, Deputy
Farm Minister  Nattawut Saikuar  said June 1.  Study Group  While global truck sales will probably drop 2.6 percent
this year, purchases of light vehicles should rise 5.8 percent,
said May Arthapan, a Bangkok-based director at LMC Automotive
Thailand, part of Oxford, England-based research company LMC
Automotive Ltd. The Singapore-based International Rubber Study
 Group,  whose membership includes 36 countries, predicts natural-
rubber demand rising 3.4 percent this year as supply gains 3.2
percent. It is scheduled to release new forecasts this month.  While commodity analysts are getting more bearish, those
following tiremakers are increasingly bullish, with 71 percent
covering Bridgestone recommending investors buy the shares. The
proportion was 21 percent in January 2011, a month before rubber
reached a record, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company will report a 69 percent increase in net  income 
to 174.5 billion yen this year, the mean of 13 analyst estimates
shows, as production recovers from the earthquake and tsunami
that battered  Japan ’s industry in March 2011. The preceding
month, analysts were predicting profit of as little as 124.1
billion yen for 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Shares of
Bridgestone  dropped  0.9 percent this year and will reach 2,308
yen in 12 months, according to the estimates.  Bonded Warehouses  Shares of Michelin & Cie., the second-biggest tiremaker,
will rise 32 percent to 65.23 euros in the next 12 months,
extending this year’s 8.1 percent advance, the average of 13
analyst estimates shows. Of the 22 analysts covering the
Clermont-Ferrand, France-based  company  and tracked by Bloomberg,
77 percent recommend buying the stock.  Tiremakers will have ample supply, with stockpiles held by
traders and in bonded warehouses at Qingdao, the main hub for
Chinese imports, rising 20 percent to a three-year high of
332,600 tons by December, according to the Association of
Natural Rubber Producing Countries. The Kuala Lumpur-based
group’s 11 members represent about 93 percent of production.  Inventories are increasing as Chinese demand drops 2.3
percent to 3.69 million tons this year, according to RCMA.
European consumption will probably decline 3.7 percent to 1.43
million tons as U.S. usage stays little changed at 964,000 tons,
the trading group estimates.  “It would be quite impossible for any other country to
plug the hole left by a decline in Chinese consumption,” said
Lou Zhi, the head of the trading department at Hunter Capital
Ltd., a commodity hedge fund based in the northeastern Chinese
city of Dalian. “A structural  bear market  is in place for
industrial commodities.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  