-- Russian Ship to Syria Turned Back After U.K. Weapons Alert
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-06-19T16:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/russian-ship-to-syria-loses-insurance-after-u-k-arms-alert-1-.html
A Russian ship’s insurance was
canceled en route to  Syria  after British authorities said its
cargo may be lethal and in violation of European Union
sanctions, forcing the vessel to turn back.  “We were made aware of allegations that the Alaed was
carrying munitions destined for Syria,” Standard Steamship
Owners Protection and Indemnity Association (Europe) Ltd., a
part of the Standard Club mutual insurance association, said in
a statement today. “We have already informed the ship owner
that their insurance cover ceased automatically in view of the
nature of the voyage.”  The MV Alaed is owned by Femco, a shipping company based on
the Far East island of Sakhalin, according to Russian
registration documents. U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
said the boat had reversed course after losing its insurance.  “I am pleased to report that the ship that was reportedly
carrying arms to Syria has now turned back, apparently to
 Russia ,” Hague told lawmakers in Parliament in London today.  The vessel was in the Norwegian Sea and continuing on its
voyage, a company official in Moscow who declined to be
identified said by telephone earlier today. No one at the
company was available to comment on the report that the ship
turned back.  Helicopters, Missiles  The boat was loaded with Mi-25 helicopters and missiles in
Russia’s Baltic Sea exclave of Kaliningrad and is destined for
the Syrian port of Tartus, the  Daily Telegraph  reported, citing
unidentified U.K. security officials who were alerted to the
shipment by counterparts in the U.S. Satellite data compiled by
Bloomberg showed the Alaed off the northwestern coast of
 Scotland  at 7 p.m. Moscow time today.  “We are aware of a ship carrying a consignment of
refurbished Russian-made attack helicopters heading to Syria,”
the U.K. Foreign Office said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
working closely with international partners to ensure that we
are doing all we can to stop the Syrian regime’s ability to
slaughter civilians being reinforced through assistance from
other countries.”  Without insurance, a vessel can continue to travel, though
it won’t be able load or unload any cargo at any commercial
port, said Alexei Bezborodov, director of  Infranews , a Russian
transport and logistics research group. Russia maintains a naval
base near Tartus, its only one outside the former  Soviet Union .  EU Ban  The EU last year imposed a ban on “arms and equipment that
may be used for internal repression” in Syria, according to the
bloc’s  website . More than 10,000 people have died in Syria since
an uprising against President Bashar al-Assad’s government began
15 months ago. While U.S. President  Barack Obama  has called for
Assad to step aside, Russia has blocked UN Security Council
resolutions against his regime and accused the U.S. and its
allies of trying to duplicate the armed overthrow of Libya’s
Muammar Qaddafi.  Tensions between the U.S. and Russia flared last week when
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  accused Russia of stoking the
violence in Syria by delivering weapons and attack helicopters
to Assad’s forces. Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  retorted that,
unlike the U.S., the Russians “aren’t shipping to Syria or
anywhere else things that can be used against peaceful
demonstrators.”  ‘No New Deliveries’  The Foreign Ministry in Moscow said June 15 that while
Russia had carried out repairs on helicopters it sold to Syria
during the Soviet era, there are “no new deliveries.”  Vyacheslav Davidenko, a spokesman for Russian state arms
exporter Rosoboronexport, declined to comment on the Alaed
immediately when Bloomberg called, as did the  Defense Ministry ’s
press service in Moscow.  A boat owned by billionaire  Vladimir Lisin ’s North-Western
Shipping Co., based in  St. Petersburg , delivered weapons to
Tartus last month, according to two people with direct knowledge
of the matter.  Lisin issued a statement June 16 saying an internal
investigation had uncovered no evidence that the boat in
question, the Professor Katsman, unloaded anything but
electrical equipment and rotor blades in Tartus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  