-- Rwanda a ‘Scapegoat’ for Eastern Congo Conflict, Kagame Says
-- B y   S a u l   B u t e r a   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-06-19T16:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/rwanda-a-scapegoat-for-eastern-congo-conflict-kagame-says-1-.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo is
using neighboring  Rwanda  as a “scapegoat” for conflict in the
east of the country, Rwandan President  Paul Kagame  said.  A 2009 peace accord between Congo’s government and rebels
with links to Rwanda has failed, Kagame said, according to
comments posted by Rwanda’s presidency on the social media
website, Twitter, today. “Governance problems” are to blame
for the continued conflict in Congo’s eastern region, Kagame
told reporters in Urugwiro Village in Rwanda.  “The crisis has to be understood as a breakdown in
relations between DRC and its own citizens, not Rwanda,” Kagame
said.  Since April, more than 200,000 people have fled fighting in
eastern Congo between the army and the rebels, who allegedly
have links to Rwanda, according to Congolese officials.  Congo and Rwanda fought a series of wars directly or via
rebel proxies beginning in the late 1990s until the 2009 peace
agreement. Since then, the two countries have improved relations
and collaborated to fight Rwandan ethnic Hutu rebels who operate
in eastern Congo and whose leaders may have links to the 1994
 Rwandan genocide .  ’Can’t Believe Them’  Congo’s Minister of Communication Lambert Mende did not
answer his mobile phone when called by Bloomberg News today.  “When our Rwandan friends say the problem is only
Congolese, one can’t believe them,” Mende said in a June 16
interview in Kinshasa, Congo’s capital. Hutu rebels come from
Rwanda and as many as 300 members of the current rebellion in
eastern Congo were allegedly recruited in Rwanda, Mende said.  The UN Security Council said June 15 it would back an
investigation “into credible reports of outside support to the
armed groups.”  The rebels have an “appalling” record of human rights
abuses and must face justice, the UN’s high commissioner for
human rights, Navi Pillay, said today in an e-mailed statement.
Their leader, General Bosco Ntaganda, is wanted by the
 International Criminal Court  for  war crimes , while other senior
figures in the movement have allegedly recruited child soldiers
and massacred civilians in the region, according to the
statement.  Ntaganda ran a mineral-smuggling operation from the region,
a report by the UN Group of Experts on Congo said in December.
Congo is  Africa ’s largest producer of tin ore, which is mainly
found in the east.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saul Butera in Nairobi at 
 sbutera2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 