-- Ryanair Faces Antitrust Spat Over Revived Aer Lingus Bid
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-06-20T11:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/ryanair-says-profit-to-fall-as-fuel-prices-outpace-fares.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  will struggle
to overcome regulatory barriers to its renewed bid for  Aer
Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , analysts said today as shares of the target
carrier traded more than 10 percent below the offer price.  Europe ’s biggest discount airline revived its pursuit with
an offer of 1.30 euros a share, placing a value of 694 million
euros ($883 million) on Aer Lingus, whose stock traded at 1.06
euros as of 12:29 p.m. in Dublin.  Ryanair already owns  29.8 percent  of Aer Lingus, having
been blocked from taking full control in 2007 when the European
Commission ruled that it would dominate 35 routes and 80 percent
of the market in Dublin, where both carriers are based. Irish
Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  told lawmakers today that he has
competition concerns about a possible takeover by the low-cost
operator of the state’s former national carrier.  Ryanair (RYA)  said in a statement yesterday that recent
developments have changed the competitive landscape, with slots
available for new entrants in the Irish capital and British
Airways parent IAG recently allowed to purchase BMI, the second-
biggest carrier at its London Heathrow airport base.  “The key issue is whether or not the EC permits this,”
said Gerard Moore, an analyst at Merrion Capital in Dublin with
a “buy” rating on Aer Lingus. “While a lot of Ryanair’s
arguments make sense, we think the Commission will be concerned
that there won’t be sufficient new entrants at Dublin airport to
ensure effective competition, and therefore block the deal.”  Government Stake  Aer Lingus  surged  as much as 25 percent to 1.17 euros and
pared gains after Kenny’s comments to trade 12.8 percent higher,
still 24 cents shy of the offer price. That gives Aer Lingus a
market value of 573 million euros. Ryanair was up 0.5 percent at
4 euros, valuing it at 5.76 billion euros.  Ryanair said the cash offer was also prompted by the Irish
government’s plans to sell its 25 percent holding in Aer Lingus
as part of wider disposal of assets aimed at balancing budgets.  “The government would be concerned obviously in terms of
competition, in term of consumer facilities, in terms of
price,” Kenny said. “We don’t have any veto over this, we
don’t have any blocking rights and the details of the offer made
by Ryanair have not yet been considered collectively by
government.”  Aer Lingus will comment “in due course,” the company said
in a release today, adding that in the meantime, “shareholders
are urged to take no action.”  Bid Premium  Ryanair’s bid, via a wholly-owned subsidiary, Coinside
Ltd., would pay a premium of 38 percent over Aer Lingus’s
closing price yesterday. Investors would also get a dividend of
3 cents a share announced by Aer Lingus on May 4 that they’re
due to receive on July 31, it said.  “This offer represents a significant opportunity to
combine Aer Lingus with Ryanair to form one strong Irish airline
group,” Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in the
statement.  He pledged to help lift Aer Lingus’s annual passenger total
to 14 million over five years from 9.5 million today and said
Ryanair would also invest in expanding trans-Atlantic flights.  Ryanair’s plan will “encounter familiar regulatory
hurdles,” Edward Stanford, an analyst at Oriel Securities, said
in an investor note.  Gerald Khoo  at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank said prospects of a takeover succeeding “have improved,
but not necessarily decisively so.”  Political Climate  The European Union regulator said in 2007 it couldn’t force
Ryanair to sell its remaining Aer Lingus stake, while the
company lost an appeal against the merger ban in 2010. A
spokesman for the European Union in Brussels said today its
decisions on Ryanair are well-known.  “The political climate is against Ryanair succeeding with
its latest bid, but the acquisition of Aer Lingus is something
it has wished to achieve for some years,” said  John Strickland ,
director of JLS Consulting in  London . “It probably senses that
now is an opportune moment given the macro-economic climate and
the quickening of the pace of consolidation.”  Matthew Hall , a lawyer at McGuire Woods LLP in Brussels,
said a downturn in traffic in Dublin that has made more
operating slots available is unlikely to change the EC’s view on
the costs of competing with two established brands there, or on
Ryanair’s record of “aggressive competition,” and might in
fact be deemed to make new entry less likely.  Consolidation among carriers may also be deemed irrelevant
since the regulator takes a route-by-route approach, he said.  Ryanair is also facing a full investigation by the U.K.’s
 Competition Commission  of its holding in the smaller carrier
after the national regulator said it may lead to higher prices.
The  Office of Fair Trading , Britain’s lesser antitrust watchdog,
asked for the probe earlier this month.  BMI Precedent  The consolidation of Europe’s major carriers means that Aer
Lingus’s future can best be secured within a larger Irish group,
O’Leary said in the statement. Should a deal go ahead, Aer
Lingus could continue to target a number of “primary” European
airports to which Ryanair does not wish to operate, he added.  The purchase of  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s BMI by BA owner
 International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  is highly relevant
to Ryanair’s bid in that it united the top carriers at Heathrow,
which has “little if any opportunity for new entrants,” he
said.  With Etihad Airways having bought 2.99 percent of Aer
Lingus last month, Ryanair’s offer will also open up competition
for the government’s holding, maximizing receipts for the cash-
strapped Irish state, O’Leary said, adding that Ryanair could
alternatively work alongside another investor. Abu Dhabi-based
Etihad said today it is monitoring Ryanair’s offer.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Davy Corporate Finance are advising
Ryanair and Coinside, according to yesterday’s statement, and
the offer would be financed from Ryanair’s reserves.  Aer Lingus is being advised by  Goodbody Stockbrokers ,
Rothschild and  UBS AG (UBSN) , the airline said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  