-- Sandusky’s Wife Says She Saw No Sign of Alleged Sex Abuse
-- B y   D r e w   G i n g r i c h ,   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/sandusky-sex-abuse-investigator-denies-tainting-witness.html
The wife of Jerry Sandusky, the
former  Pennsylvania  State University assistant football coach
accused of molesting young boys, testified that she never had
any indication of such misconduct by her husband.  When defense lawyer Joseph Amendola asked Dottie Sandusky
yesterday if she ever heard a child yelling for help from the
basement, as one victim testified, she told jurors at her
husband’s state-court trial in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, that
she hadn’t.  She said the basement wasn’t soundproofed, she has good
hearing, and she often went down there to use the freezer.  Amendola asked her if she could think of any reason any of
the alleged victims would lie about her husband of 45 years, and
she answered, “I don’t know what it would be.”  Dottie Sandusky wasn’t charged in the case.  In other testimony yesterday, a retired Pennsylvania state
trooper who helped investigate the allegations against Sandusky
said he didn’t tell a witness what to say.  “Did you ever taint a witness?” Joseph Amendola asked
Corporal Joseph Leiter.  “No,” Leiter responded.  Jurors then heard a tape recording in which Leiter
interviewed one of the victims and stated that Sandusky was
responsible for attacking him.  “What happened, happened; he took advantage of you,”
Leiter said on the tape. “We need you to tell us that this is
what happened.”  Taped Interview  Leiter was asked about the taped interview and said he only
recalled “parts of it.” When the question of truthfulness
about the tape was mentioned, Judge John Cleland stopped the
testimony and said, “That’s for the jury to decide.”  Other defense witnesses testified about Sandusky’s
character.  Joyce Porter of  State College , Pennsylvania, a mother of 14
children, said she has known Sandusky for 40 years. “All the
people I know who know Jerry think he’s a wonderful man,” she
testified.  Sandusky, 68, faces 51 counts alleging that he assaulted 10
boys over 15 years. Each count of involuntary deviate sexual
intercourse is punishable by as long as 20 years in prison.  The trial began June 11. Sandusky denies the allegations.  Prosecutors say Sandusky used the charity he founded in
1977,  the Second Mile , to recruit victims, “grooming” them
with gifts, trips to football games and money.  Another witness, Megan Rash, 25, of Milesburg,
Pennsylvania, said she knew Sandusky through Second Mile when
she was in elementary school, and she also knew one of the
alleged victims. She told the jury that summers spent with the
group were “amazing.”  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Gingrich in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 