-- Schlumberger Wins Field in Pemex Auction, Alfa Wins 2 Blocks
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-06-19T20:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/schlumberger-wins-field-in-pemex-auction-alfa-wins-2-blocks-1-.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield-services provider,  Petrofac Ltd. (PFC) , and  Alfa SAB (ALFAA) 
were among the winners to develop four mature  oil fields  in
today’s auction by Petroleos Mexicanos  A consortium formed by Alfa’s Alfasid del Norte unit and
Monclova Pirineos Gas SA won the right to drill the onshore
blocks of Tierra Blanca and San Andres at today’s auction.
Schlumberger will develop the Panuco field with Petrofac and
Cheiron Holdings Ltd. won the Altamira field, Pedro Velazquez,
who managed the bidding round for the state-owned company known
as Pemex, said at the auction in Poza Rica, Mexico.  Pemex is using new service contracts to attract private oil
producers to develop mature fields and increase well-extraction
rates to reverse seven years of output declines. Today’s auction
is the second round of contracts after changes to national oil
laws allowed private and foreign companies to gain control,
without ownership, of Mexican fields for the first time since
the industry was nationalized in 1938.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , Repsol SA,  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  and  Saipem
SpA (SPM)  were among the bidders to develop the fields Altamira,
Arenque, Atun, Panuco, San Andres and Tierra Blanca. The areas
may contain as much as 1.7 billion barrels of oil equivalent,
the Mexico City-based company has said on its website.  Pemex will pay the Alfa group $3.49 a barrel for the San
Andres field and $4.12 at the Tierra Blanca development. Cheiron
will be paid $5.01 a barrel at the Altamira field. The Panuco
block had a winning bid of $7 per barrel by Schlumberger and
Petrofac. Alfa shares rose 2.4 percent to 186.55 pesos at the
close in Mexico City.  No contracts were awarded for the offshore fields of Atun
and Arenque, Velazquez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in  Mexico  City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  