-- Focus Media Tops Consumer Rally on Rebound Bets: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-06-19T21:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/seaspan-leads-consumer-rally-on-rebound-bets-china-overnight.html
Chinese consumer stocks  traded in
New York rose, sending the benchmark  index (SHCOMP)  to the highest level
in a month, after the Commerce Minister said Asia’s fastest
growing economy is poised for a rebound this month.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York jumped 1.8 percent to 94.09, the
highest level since May 16.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a digital
advertising company, rallied 6.2 percent and Luxury-goods
company  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  surged to a three-week high.
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., known as Chalco, traded at the
highest premium in eight days to its Hong Kong shares after its
engineering unit announced a share offering plan.  Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  told reporters June
18 in Los Cabos, Mexico, that his country’s economic situation
in June is improving following government measures to shore up
consumption.  China ’s central bank cut interest rates on June 7
for the first time since 2008 and has lowered required-reserve
requirement ratio for banks three times since November to spur
lending. The finance ministry extended subsidies to buyers of
energy-saving home appliances this month.  “I certainly wouldn’t suggest investors sell Chinese
stocks, and I’m quite happy to build positions gently,” Edmund Harriss, who helps manage a $150 million equity fund at Guinness
Atkinson Asset Management, said by phone yesterday from London.
“If a policy official says June will look better, it will
probably turn out that way. I’m reasonably optimistic.”  More Stimulus  The iShares FTSE  China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest U.S.-
listed China exchange-traded fund, surged 1 percent to a five-
week high of $34.90. The Shanghai Composite Index of mainland
stocks dropped 0.7 percent to 2,300.80, in its first slump in
three days. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1 percent to
1,357.98, the highest level since May 10, as investors
speculated the  Federal Reserve  will announce more measures to
stimulate the  U.S. economy .  Shanghai-based Focus Media jumped 6.2 percent to $21.30 in
its fourth day of gains.  Short sale interest  in the company has
declined to 7.7 percent of the company’s outstanding shares by
June 15, from 9.8 percent a week earlier and 43 percent at the
beginning of the year, according to Data Explorers, a New York-
based research firm.  Hong Kong-based Michael Kors gained 4.3 percent to $41.11,
the highest level since May 29, as it extended a three-day
rally, the longest winning streak in almost a month.  Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $50 billion as executive
chairman of Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group, said in an
interview from Singapore yesterday that he likes Chinese
consumer stocks.  “We like China because of the growth,’ Mobius said. ‘‘A
lot of people ask me if China is having a hard or soft landing.
And we tell them China’s not having a landing and it continues
to fly.”  China Aluminum International Engineering Corp., a unit of
the nation’s largest maker of the lightweight metal, plans to
issue 363.2 million shares at HK$3.93 to HK$4.73 each and list
the shares on July 6, according to the company’s prospectus. Six
so-called cornerstone investors, including Yunnan Aluminum Co.
Ltd., agreed to buy about $100 million of the offering, the
prospectus said.  Chalco’s American depositary receipts added 2.8 percent to
a six-week high of $10.94 in  New York . The ADRs, each
representing 25 underlying shares in the company, traded 2.3
percent  above  its Hong Kong stock, the widest premium since June
7.  Weibo Upgrade  Sina Corp., which runs a Twitter-like Weibo service in
China, advanced 3.8 percent to $57.05, the strongest level since
May 16.  Current Weibo users are being given the option of upgrading
for a fee of 10  yuan  ($1.57) per month, China National Radio
 reported  on its website yesterday.  The Shanghai-based company also agreed to partner with  HTC
Corp. (2498) , Asia’s second-largest smartphone maker, on services and
applications for mobile Internet, HTC said in an e-mailed
statement to Bloomberg News.  iSoftStone Holdings Ltd. , a Beijing-based information
technology service provider, jumped 9.2 percent to $6.08.  Dick Wei, a Hong Kong-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., reiterated yesterday his overweight recommendation on the
company, maintaining a price target of $18.  LDK Solar Co., the world’s second-largest maker of wafers
based in Xinyu of China’s Jiangxi province, sank 6.3 percent to
$2.07, leading declines on the Bloomberg China index.  Phoenix
New Media Ltd. (FENG) , the Beijing-based Internet, TV and mobile-news
provider, retreated for the first time in seven days, dropping
6.3 percent to $5.22 yesterday in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  