-- SEC Delaying Dodd-Frank Swap Rules, Says CFTC’s Chilton
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-19T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/sec-delaying-dodd-frank-swap-rules-says-cftc-s-chilton.html
A council of U.S. financial
regulators should speed up Dodd-Frank Act rules delayed by
inaction at the Securities and Exchange Commission, said  Bart Chilton , a Democrat on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The commissions are required by Dodd-Frank to jointly
define which derivatives contracts are swaps and will fall under
clearing, trading and reporting requirements. The definition is
needed before limits on speculation in oil, natural gas, wheat
and other commodities can take effect, Chilton said in a speech
prepared for a  conference  of the Mutual Fund Directors Forum in
Washington.  “We have been continually reassured we are going to
consider this joint rule with the SEC ‘next month’,” Chilton
said. “I see no promise of movement from the SEC on this. We
are two years into this new law, and position limits were
supposed to be implemented after six months.”  Chilton said the 10-member Financial Stability Oversight
Council, led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , should
intervene to speed up the process. The council includes the
heads of the CFTC, SEC, Federal Reserve and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. among other members.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told the senate Banking
Committee on May 22 that her agency and the CFTC are
cooperating. “Although the timing and sequencing of the CFTC’s
commission’s proposal and adoption of rules may vary, they are
the subject of extensive interagency discussions,” she said.  The speculation limits are among the most controversial
requirements in Dodd-Frank and spurred more than 13,000 comments
to the CFTC from supporters such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
opponents such as Barclays Capital. CFTC commissioners voted 3-2
at an Oct. 18 meeting to approve the final regulation.  Suits Filed  The International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc.
and Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association filed
a lawsuit in December challenging the rule. The associations’
members include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  The groups argue that the CFTC never studied
whether the regulation was “necessary and appropriate” or
quantified the costs tied to implementing the rule. A judgment
is pending.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  