-- Secretariat Awarded Fastest Time in Preakness Following Review
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-20T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/secretariat-given-record-preakness-time-39-years-after-race.html
Secretariat owns the fastest time in
every Triple Crown race after a review of the 1973  Preakness
Stakes .  Secretariat is one of 11 thoroughbreds to win the  Kentucky 
Derby, Preakness and Belmont Stakes in the same year.  The Preakness was the only race in which Secretariat didn’t
set a record. The Maryland Racing Commission yesterday said it
voted unanimously to change Secretariat’s official winning time
in the Preakness to 1 minute, 53 seconds, two seconds faster
than the original recorded clocking at Baltimore’s Pimlico Race
Course 39 years ago.  “Justice was served,” Maryland Jockey Club President
Thomas Chuckas said. “The Secretariat team made a compelling
case that he ran the race in 1:53 flat and added the Preakness
record to his resume.”  The Maryland Racing Commission said last week it would
investigate the official timing of the race at the request of
Secretariat’s owner,  Penny Chenery , and Chuckas.  “I didn’t know if it was appropriate to cheer, but I
couldn’t help myself,” Chenery said. “This is a big day.”  The seven-member review panel used technology including
“layered-on timing devices” and digital replays of the race,
Michael Hopkins, the racing commission’s executive director,
said in a telephone interview.  Questionable Time  The previous Preakness record had been 1:53 2/5, set by
Tank’s Prospect in 1985 and matched by Louis Quatorze in 1997
and Curlin in 2007.  The electronic timer used in 1973 recorded Secretariat’s
win in 1:55, while two independent clockers from the Daily
Racing Form each hand-timed the race at 1:53 2/5, which would
have broken Canonero II’s then-record of 1:54 at the 1971
Preakness. The official time was later changed to 1:54 2/5 --
the time reported by Pimlico’s official hand clocker -- because
of “extenuating circumstances” with the electronic timer’s
recording.  “It is wonderful for the sport to remove an asterisk and
wonderful for the legacy of Secretariat and his fans, who
believed he set the record in all three Triple Crown races,”
Leonard Lusky, who represented Chenery at the hearing, said in a
statement.  Secretariat won the  Kentucky Derby  in 1:59 2/5, setting a
track record for the 1 1/4-mile distance at Churchill Downs in
Louisville, Kentucky, and is one of only two horses to win the
race in less than two minutes. He won the 1 1/2-mile Belmont
Stakes at Belmont Park in Elmont, New York, by 31 lengths in
2:24, both records that still stand.  Horse racing hasn’t had a Triple Crown winner since 1978,
when Affirmed won all three races. I’ll Have Another won the
Kentucky Derby and Preakness this year before being pulled out
of the Belmont the day before the June 9 race because of
tendinitis in his left front leg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  