-- Shtokman Continues Operations Before Shareholder Decision
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-06-19T07:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/shtokman-continues-operations-before-shareholder-decision.html
Shtokman Development AG, a OAO
Gazprom-led operating company behind a natural-gas project in
the  Barents Sea , is functioning as normal while awaiting
decisions on the fate of the Arctic field later this week.  “There is no liquidation, the company continues
operations,” Sergei Vykhukholev, a spokesman for the Zug,
Switzerland-based venture, said by phone from Moscow today,
responding to a report in Vedomosti that said Gazprom dismissed
the entire staff of Shtokman. “Let’s wait for decisions that
shareholders are to make in  St. Petersburg .”  Gazprom, Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  and France’s  Total SA (FP)  have
repeatedly delayed the project after the shale-gas boom in the
U.S. forced them to reconsider the markets, while technological
challenges and costs led to years of debates on how to proceed.  Gazprom,  Russia ’s natural-gas exporter, may add partners to
the Arctic project and seek to focus on producing liquefied
natural gas for shipment by tanker instead of a previously
favored split between pipeline gas and LNG.  The partners may agree on new terms for Shtokman at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum, which starts on June
21, Gazprom Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller said last
month.  Shtokman Development is 51 percent owned by Gazprom, while
Total owns 25 percent and Statoil has 24 percent. The
shareholder agreement expires on July 1.  Vykhukholev declined to say if there will be changes in
staffing when the project is started afresh after new accords.  “The dismissal of Shtokman’s staff seems a worrying
sign,” Maria Yegikyan, an analyst at  Alfa Bank , said in a note
today. “However, their dismissal could be due to some
logistical issues being resolved by the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  