-- Silverstein Said to Be in Deal to Sell Manhattan Building
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-06-19T23:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/silverstein-said-to-be-in-deal-to-sell-manhattan-building.html
A partnership that includes  New York 
developer  Larry Silverstein  agreed to sell 575 Lexington Ave., a
midtown Manhattan office tower that had been threatened with
foreclosure, to Normandy Real Estate Partners LLC and New York
Life Insurance Co., said two people with knowledge of the deal.  Normandy and New York Life, which are equal partners in the
transaction, agreed to pay $360 million for the 35-story
building, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
deal isn’t final. The agreement values the building at about
$485 a square foot, and is less than the $416 million that
Silverstein and the California State Teachers’ Retirement System
paid for it in 2006 as property prices approached their peak.  The building was the subject of a foreclosure filing in
January 2011 by representatives for its lenders. In October, the
pension system known as Calstrs and Silverstein, the developer
of towers at the  World Trade Center site , made a $75 million
payment toward a $325 million securitized loan on the building,
according to mortgage data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dara McQuillan, a spokesman for Silverstein, and  Ricardo Duran , a Calstrs spokesman, said they had no immediate comment.
Susan Kloss, a spokeswoman for Normandy, and William Werfelman,
a New York Life spokesman, didn’t immediately return telephone
calls seeking comment.  Martha Wallau, a spokeswoman for Eastdil Secured LLC, whose
brokers Doug Harmon and Adam Spies represented the sellers, also
didn’t immediately return a call.  The agreement was reported earlier today by the Wall Street
Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  