-- Sina Advances in New York on Report of Premium Weibo Service
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-06-19T20:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/sina-gains-in-new-york-on-report-of-premium-subscription-service.html
Sina Corp. (SINA) , operator of the Twitter-
like Weibo service in  China , rose to a five-week high in  New
York  after a report that it would offer users a premium
subscription service.  Sina advanced 3.8 percent to $57.05 at the close of trading
in New York, its highest price since May 16.  Sina is seeking ways to increase sales by offering a
premium service for Weibo users, China National Radio  reported 
today.  “Subscription online services have yet to have much
success in China, but Sina management certainly gets credit for
trying to see if this will work,” said Echo He, an analyst at
Maxim Group LLC in New York, in a phone interview. “It could be
a positive if they can offer users services they really want and
don’t get from the free service.”  Current users are being given the option of upgrading for a
fee of 10  yuan  per month ($1.57), the report from the radio news
said.  “This is another step in Sina’s effort to try to monetize
the commercial user,” Andy Yeung, a New York-based analyst for
Oppenheimer & Co., said in a phone interview. “They’re going
after a smaller segment, probably people with more money, who
they believe will pay a subscription for more services.”  Separately, Sina agreed to partner with  HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s
second-largest smartphone maker, on services and applications
for mobile Internet. Sina and HTC will cooperate on social
networking, e-commerce and cloud computing, HTC said in an e-
mailed statement sent to Bloomberg News.  “This partnership will allow Sina to get Weibo on HTC
phones before they’re sold,” said Maxim’s He. “It’s still a
question whether social media operators can make money in mobile
services but they’ll only find out if they keep trying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net , or
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 Tbarak@bloomberg.net  