-- Slovenia’s Benchmark Bond Yield Rises on Europe, Domestic Woes
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-06-19T10:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/slovenia-s-benchmark-bond-yield-rises-on-europe-domestic-woes.html
Slovenia’s benchmark bond yield rose
above 6 percent for the first time since February as the debt
crisis in Europe deepens and its largest bank needs more cash
than previously announced.  The bond maturing in 2021 extended losses for the second
day, with the yield reaching 6.0155 percent at 12:15 p.m. in
Ljubljana today, according to mid-pricing data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield dropped below 6 percent in February after
the  European Central Bank  offered lenders in Europe cheap loans.  “It looks like the rise in bond yields is due to both
international and domestic factors,” said  William Jackson , an
emerging-markets economist at  Capital Economics  in  London .
“There is general investor risk aversion due to events in the
 euro zone  and it seems the Slovenian authorities have revised up
the recapitalization requirement for Nova Ljubljanska Banka
d.d., which has probably put the spotlight on domestic problems
as well.”  Slovenian banks, including Nova Ljubljanska Banka, are
relying on financing from the ECB as record losses and
uncertainty in the European banking industry limits access to
wholesale funding.  Lenders took out 2 billion euros ($2.53 billion) of ECB
loans, the Slovenian central bank said June 14, while NLB
borrowed 1.2 billion euros, according to its acting Chief
Executive Officer Bozo Jasovic.  The debt crisis in  Europe  is deepening as the second vote
in Greece failed to improve investors’ risk appetite and
borrowing costs in Spain and Italy continued to climb.  Nova Ljubljanska, in which the government holds an indirect
majority, needs 500 million euros to lift its core Tier 1
capital ratio to above 9 percent, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic said June 15. Previously, the Ljubljana-based lender
sought 400 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  