-- South African Economy Faces Downside Risks, Gordhan Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-06-20T07:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/south-african-economic-growth-facing-downside-risks.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said risks of a further slowdown in  Africa ’s
biggest economy are intensifying as Europe fails to resolve a
debt crisis in the region.  “There’s no doubt the downside risks have been increasing
as we see Europe moving from one point of non-resolution of
their problems to another point of non-resolution,” Gordhan
said in an interview yesterday in Los Cabos,  Mexico , where he is
attending a meeting of the Group of 20 nations. “We are hoping
that both at this summit and the European summit later this
month, there will be sufficient decisiveness.”  Gordhan has already cut his forecast for  economic growth 
this year to 2.7 percent from 3.4 percent previously, as a
possible recession in  Europe  curbs exports from a region that
buys about a third of  South Africa ’s manufactured goods. That’s
hindering  job creation , undermining a government pledge to cut
the  unemployment rate  to 14 percent by 2020 from 25.2 percent
currently.  The investment climate in South Africa and globally “is
not encouraging” and companies are hoarding cash rather than
investing, Gordhan said. The ruling  African National Congress 
will seek to resolve investors’ concerns about the party’s
economic policies at a conference next week, he said.  “We’ve put in place all sorts of incentives for businesses
to come in and we understand people have concerns about our
policy on mining, for example, and all of those issues will be
adequately resolved in the policy conference,” Gordhan said.  Interest Rates  The rand has dropped 6.9 percent against the dollar since
April 1. The currency weakened 0.2 percent to 8.2213 a dollar at
9:40 a.m. in Johannesburg.  The South African  Reserve Bank  has kept its  benchmark 
lending rate at 5.5 percent, the lowest level in more than 30
years, since November 2010 to help buffer the economy against
Europe’s debt crisis.  The government has given the central bank room within its
inflation-targeting framework to take account of employment and
growth when making its policy decisions, Gordhan said.  While Governor Gill Marcus said on June 8 that policy
makers will act without “fear or favor” in adjusting interest
rates, inflation near the top of the central bank’s 3 percent to
6 percent target range is making it difficult to ease monetary
policy. The  inflation rate  rose to 6.1 percent in April from 6
percent in the previous month, according to the statistics
office.  Traders are increasing bets that the Reserve Bank will
lower  interest rates  as soon as this year as economic growth
slows. The yield on the forward-rate agreement due in December
has dropped 24 basis points to 5.26 percent in the past month,
the lowest level since November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  