-- South African Shares: Anglo, BHP Billiton, Sasol, Telkom Move
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-19T15:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/south-african-shares-gold-fields-harmony-sasol-telkom-move.html
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
advanced for a third day to a record in Johannesburg, climbing
0.8 percent to 34,714.06 by the close.  The following were among the most active equities in the
market today. Stock symbols follow company names.  Accentuate Ltd. (ACE)  , a South African cleaning and
maintenance company, climbed to the highest in more than six
weeks, jumping 11 percent to 71 cents. The company’s Safic (Pty)
Ltd. unit concluded a joint venture agreement with Ion Exchange
( India ) Ltd. to widen its water treatment operations in South
Africa.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  , the diversified miner that
makes up almost 8 percent of the index, rose for a third day,
jumping 1.2 percent to 282.30 rand. Copper futures rallied for a
fifth straight sessions on signs of recovery in the U.S. housing
market and prospects for improving demand in  China , the world’s
largest consumer of industrial metals.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BIL)  , the world’s biggest commodity
producer, climbed 1 percent to 243 rand.  First Uranium Corp. (FIU)  , a uranium and gold producer,
closed at the highest in almost five months, jumping 6.5 percent
to 1.97 rand. The company said shareholders holding almost 92
percent of its equity voted in favour of selling assets to
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. and Gold One International Ltd.  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  , the largest producer of motor fuels
made from coal, rose for a fifth day, gaining 0.7 percent to
374.56 rand. Oil advanced on optimism that Europe’s debt crisis
is easing and speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will announce
a package to boost the  U.S. economy .  Telkom South Africa Ltd. (TKG)  , Africa’s largest fixed-
line operator, jumped to the highest in more than two weeks,
adding 2.4 percent to 20.84 rand. Business Day reported  South
Africa  is considering buying the shares in the company it
doesn’t already own and delisting it from the Johannesburg
bourse. Shares pared their gains after the government said it
has no plans to buy out minority shareholders.  Editors: Peter Branton, Ash Kumar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  