-- Korea Boosts Corn Imports From South America as Real Slumps
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2012-06-19T08:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/south-korea-boosts-corn-imports-from-south-america-as-real-drops.html
Nonghyup Feed Inc.,  South Korea ’s
biggest feed-grain buyer, is increasing corn imports from  South
America  as  Brazil  boosts exports on a weaker currency and higher
output, offering a cheaper alternative to U.S. supplies.  Purchases this year may climb to at least 450,000 metric
tons, mostly from Brazil, from 50,000 tons last year, Lee Tae
Woong, a deputy general manager at the Seoul-based company, said
in a phone interview today. Total corn imports were about 2
million tons last year, he said without giving a 2012 forecast.  The price of corn has dropped 17 percent this year as the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  forecast last week that farmers
would produce a record 14.79 billion bushels in 2012 after
planting the most acres since 1937. Exports from the U.S., the
biggest shipper, dropped 6.6 percent from September through
April, with shipment to Korea, the world’s third-biggest buyer,
falling 26 percent, according to USDA data. Sales to  China 
jumped almost nine-fold, it showed.  “Korean feed-makers will look to import more South
American corn for the rest of this year as there’s a wide price
gap between U.S. and South American origins,” Lee said. South
American corn was priced about $20 per ton cheaper than U.S.
grain on a cost and freight basis, he said.  Corn for December delivery rose 0.7 percent to $5.3775 per
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 4 p.m. Singapore time.
The price touched a 20-month low on June 15.  South America  Output in Brazil, the world’s third-largest producer, will
rise to a record 73.7 million tons in the crop year that started
Sept. 1, from 57.1 million a year earlier, researcher
Agroconsult said June 14. Brazilian real has lost 9.3 percent
against the greenback this year, making the South American
country’s crop cheaper relative to U.S. supplies.  Soybean and corn growers in Brazil will probably increase
exports this year as the local currency’s decline against the
dollar makes the shipments more profitable, Joao Rabelo,
undersecretary of economic policy at the country’s finance
ministry, said on June 4. Exporters will probably profit from a
weakening Brazilian real until the end of this year, he said.  Korea ’s feed-corn imports dropped 1.5 percent to 2.49
million tons during the first five months of this year from a
year earlier, with shipments from the U.S. down 11 percent, the
nation’s  customs data  show. South American supplies rose to
about 250,000 tons from nil in the same period, the data show.  “Although there could be ups and downs year on year, I
would argue it will be a long-term trend for the next decade or
so that buyers continue to seek South American corn as output
there will rise,” said Nonghyup’s Lee.  Asian Buyers  The nation imported 5.67 million tons of corn for feed
production in 2011, of which 85 percent was sourced from the
U.S., showed data from the Korea International Trade Association.
The U.S. supplied 92 percent of imports in 2010. The Korea Feed
Association in February forecast 2012 purchases at as much as 6
million tons.  U.S. exports to  Japan , the country’s largest customer,
plunged 11 percent since the marketing year that began Sept. 1
through April 30, while sales to  Taiwan  slumped 37 percent,
according to USDA data. Japan, Taiwan and Korea took up 44
percent of U.S. corn exports in the period, the data show.  China in April listed  Argentina  as an approved supplier and
in June set its import standards for the Brazilian government,
increasing the odds that the world’s largest corn user may start
buying from the South American nations.  “China, recognizing its corn imports are rising, is trying
to increase its sources from countries other than the U.S.,
which so far has been its predominant supplier,” said Li Qiang,
chairman of Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  