-- Stobart Shares Rise on Entry Into Car Logistics: London Mover
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-06-19T12:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/stobart-shares-rise-on-entry-into-car-logistics-london-mover.html
Stobart Group Ltd. (STOB) , a U.K. provider
of road, rail, air and sea freight services, rose in London
trading as investors endorsed its plan to enter automobile
logistics with the purchase of Autologic Holdings Plc.  Stobart climbed as much as 5.5 percent to 123.9 pence, the
biggest intraday gain since May 24. The Warrington, England-
based company said yesterday after the close of trading that it
reached an agreement to buy Autologic, which delivers,
refurbishes and stores vehicles for carmakers, dealers and
rental firms.  “It’s a natural progression from their existing
distribution business, and it is a good fit with the group,”
said Peter Ashworth, an analyst at Charles Stanley Securities
Ltd. He has a buy recommendation on Stobart. “There is scope to
exploit the Stobart rail infrastructure in the car
transportation sector.”  Stobart, which delivers cargo to U.K. supermarkets, sees
opportunities to expand  Autologic (ALG)  in  Europe , and the acquisition
will result in cost savings from better use of its fleet, Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Tinkler said in a statement. Autologic
will benefit from Stobart’s buying power for new vehicles,
maintenance, car parts and insurance, according to Stobart.  Offer Details  Stobart’s offer values Autologic at 12.4 million pounds
($19.4 million). Autologic shareholders will receive 20 pence in
cash for each share, a 74 percent premium to the share price of
the Northampton, England-based company on May 23, the day prior
to the offer period.  Autologic, which transports BMWs to U.K. dealers and Minis
produced in the U.K. to Southampton port, said May 24 that it
was in talks with Stobart. The buyer will use existing cash for
the purchase.  Autologic got about 80 percent of its 144.7 million pounds
in revenue last year in the U.K., according to its annual
report. It also has operating centers in  Belgium , the
Netherlands and the  Czech Republic .  Stobart traded 2.6 percent higher at 120.6 pence as of 1:12
p.m. Autologic rose 2.6 percent to 19.75 pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  