-- Structured Portfolio Plans Fund to Purchase Homes to Rent
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   N a t h a n i e l   B a k e r
-- 2012-06-19T15:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/structured-portfolio-plans-fund-to-purchase-homes-to-rent.html
Structured Portfolio Management LLC,
Don Brownstein’s $3.2 billion  Stamford , Connecticut-based
mortgage hedge fund, plans to start a pool to buy and rent out
homes.  The firm may introduce the fund to investors within weeks,
Brownstein said in a letter to clients dated June 12, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg News. He didn’t say how much
capital has been raised or targeted.  “There will be a significant transformation in the way in
which single family homes are owned and occupied in the  United
States ,” Brownstein said in the letter. The strategy is to
acquire homes through distressed sales and rent them out
profitably, perhaps to the former owner, then “sometime in the
not distant future, sell the houses and reap a profit from a
recovery in prices.”  Investors are trying to spend at least $6.4 billion on
single-family rentals, including from funds such as  Colony
Capital LLC , GTIS Partners, KKR & Co., Oaktree Capital Group
LLC, Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC and the Alaska
Permanent Fund Corp. They want to take advantage of U.S. home
 prices  that are 35 percent below the 2006 peak and growing
demand for rentals as the  homeownership  rate sits at the lowest
level since 1997.  Best-Performing Fund  Brownstein’s SPM Core fund rose 1.5 percent in May and
returned 8.7 percent since the start of the year. Structured
Servicing Holdings LP, the part of his main SPM Core Fund that
focuses on mortgage debt lacking government backing, returned 50
percent in the first 10 months of 2010, putting him at the top
of Bloomberg Markets’ list of the 100 best-performing funds
managing $1 billion or more.  The SPM Core Fund reopened to new investments on June 1 as
the firm identified investment opportunities, particularly in
agency mortgages that are backed by the government, Brownstein
said in the letter.  Structured Portfolio Management also hired Sean Li, who was
formerly at BlackRock Inc., where he worked on models for non-
agency mortgages, and Munish Gupta, who was most recently at
Morgan Stanley in the investment management division, where he
was a member of the mortgage-backed securities research team,
Brownstein said.  The firm declined to comment on the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Nathaniel Baker in New York at 
 nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  