-- Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Targets 32% Increase in Overseas Loans
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-06-20T06:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/sumitomo-mitsui-trust-targets-32-increase-in-overseas-loans.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309) ,
 Japan ’s fourth-biggest bank by market value, plans to expand
overseas loans by 32 percent this year as it buys assets from
European lenders and provides infrastructure loans in Asia.  The target would add 900 billion yen ($11.4 billion) to the
bank’s 2.8 trillion yen in lending abroad as of March 31,
Shigeki Tanaka, general manager of wholesale business planning,
said in an interview on June 18. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust aims to
buy 300 billion yen of assets from European firms, he said.  Japanese banks including  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  are gaining assets and
market share from European lenders seeking to withstand the
region’s debt crisis. With borrowing at home  stagnating , Tokyo-
based Sumitomo Mitsui Trust wants to meet demand for project
financing in  Asia  and lend to Japanese companies expanding on
the continent, Tanaka said.  “We’ve received a slew of offers for assets from Europe
including corporate loans and project financing,” he said.
“Unlike Japanese  megabanks  that have deeper pockets to buy
large assets, we’ll take smaller ones to build them up and keep
our portfolio well in balance.”  Of the projected 900 billion yen increase in overseas
loans, 300 billion yen will go to Japanese clients operating
abroad, Tanaka said. The remaining 600 billion yen will be lent
to foreign customers, including the proposed buyout of assets
held by European banks, he said.  Mizuho in Brazil  Mizuho, Japan’s third-biggest lender by market value, said
today that it agreed to buy German bank WestLB AG’s Brazil unit
to tap demand for infrastructure-related financing. The purchase
of Banco WestLB do Brasil SA is pending regulatory approval,
Mizuho said, without disclosing terms of the deal.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust -- formed in April 2011 through the
merger of Chuo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. and Sumitomo Trust &
Banking Co. -- had 22.9 trillion yen of loans outstanding on
March 31. Lending abroad made up about 12 percent of the total,
with the rest from retail and corporate clients at home.  Shares of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust rose 4.3 percent to close
at 221 yen in  Tokyo , paring this year’s decline to 2.2 percent.
The 84-stock  Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK)  gained 2.3 percent today and has
advanced 6.6 percent in 2012.  Net income will fall 27 percent to 120 billion yen in the
year ending March 31 as revenue from bond trading declines, the
bank forecast on May 15.  More Asian Loans  Japan’s three biggest banks are taking their largest slice
of the Asian loan market in more than a decade as European
rivals including BNP Paribas SA and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  retrench.
Mitsubishi UFJ,  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and Mizuho
arranged more than 14 percent of loans in dollars, yen or euros
in Asia-Pacific outside of Japan this year, heading for the most
since Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1999. Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust wasn’t in the top 50.  European banks have been building up capital and using
central bank loans to endure a sovereign debt crisis that has
undermined confidence in the euro and prompted Moody’s Investors
Service to downgrade lenders from  Spain  to  Italy  to the
Netherlands. Cash and near-cash holdings of the 10 largest
European banks jumped 77 percent on average in the two years
through 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Buying Assets  Mitsubishi UFJ agreed to buy Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc’s Australian infrastructure advisory business last November,
following its 3.9 billion-pound ($6.1 billion) acquisition of
the British bank’s  project financing  assets in 2010. A group led
by Sumitomo Mitsui Financial completed the purchase of RBS’s
aviation leasing division this month.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust agreed in December to buy a 40
percent stake in London-based asset manager NewSmith LLP for 35
million pounds. The Japanese bank has purchased several loan
portfolios abroad over the past year, said Tanaka, declining to
disclose details because of confidentiality agreements.  Japanese companies are moving factories abroad to combat a
stronger yen that is eroding profit and competitiveness.  “More financing needs will stem from Japanese clients that
are shifting their businesses to Asia, relocating production
bases from Japan and stepping up acquisitions of businesses
abroad,” Tanaka said. “ Europe ’s debt crisis is bringing those
loan requirements to Japanese banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  