-- Summa to Offer Buyout to Fesco Investors After Gaining 70%
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2012-06-19T16:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/summa-to-offer-buyout-to-fesco-investors-after-gaining-70-1-.html
Summa Group, an investor in Russian
ports and a Rotterdam oil terminal, said it will boost its stake
in Fesco Group to 70 percent to expand in  Russia ’s freight
market, and will offer to buy out minority investors.  Summa signed an agreement to buy 56 percent of Far Eastern
Shipping Plc, as the company is also known, from businessman
Sergey Generalov, Summa President Alexander Vinokurov told
reporters today in Moscow. Summa now holds 15 percent, he said.  Summa, co-owner of Russia’s largest port operator,
Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port, is aiming to benefit from the
consolidation of Russia’s freight industry, Vinokurov said. Non-
state transportation groups are expanding as the government
sells stakes in port and rail operators. The acquisition will
also allow Summa to enter the rail container market, he said.  “The deal will help us expand geographically and gain
access to the Pacific basin, a key area along with the Baltic
and Black seas, where Summa already works,” Vinokurov said.  Fesco surged 29 percent, reaching 11.885 rubles a share at
the close in Moscow, the highest level in three months.  Summa plans to make a voluntary offer to buy out minority
shareholders in Fesco after the deal closes in the coming weeks,
Vinokurov said, declining to say how much Summa may pay. The
company is in talks about purchasing the European Bank for
Reconstruction & Development’s 3.76 percent stake and plans to
approach East Capital, he said. East Capital, based in
 Stockholm , holds a 7.15 percent stake, according to Fesco’s
website.  Summa has already made an advance payment and arranged for
a loan, Vinokurov said. He declined to give the cost of its
acquisition of Fesco shares, saying only that it was “close”
to earlier press reports. In May, people with knowledge of the
plans said the deal would cost Summa about $1.4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Denis Maternovsky at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net  