-- Suu Kyi Demands Rule of Law in Myanmar During U.K. Visit
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-06-19T14:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/suu-kyi-demands-rule-of-law-in-myanmar-during-u-k-visit.html
Myanmar opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi said the rule of law is an essential prerequisite for
democracy in her country as she began her first visit to Britain
in more than two decades.  “This is what we all need if we are going to proceed
toward democracy,” the Nobel Peace Prize laureate, who turned
67 today, said during a panel discussion at the  London  School of
Economics and Political Science.  Suu Kyi, who spent 15 of the past 20 years under house
arrest, was restricted from seeing her two sons and husband, who
died of cancer in March 1999. She declined permission to visit
him in Britain before he died, fearing she wouldn’t be allowed
back into Myanmar, also known as  Burma .  The opposition leader is due to meet members of Britian’s
royal family and Prime Minister  David Cameron  and to address
Parliament this week. She said during a BBC Television interview
that aired June 17 that she would visit Oxford, where she lived
with her family before returning to Myanmar.  Speaking in Parliament in London today, Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  said “it is important to recognize that there is
still a long way to go in Burma” in establishing democracy.  Earlier this week, Suu Kyi said global energy companies
such as  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  must adhere to
international investment rules if they decide to team up with
her country’s national oil producer.  Myanmar is wooing companies to invest after about five
decades of military rule left it among Asia’s poorest countries.
The U.S. and the European Union eased sanctions after April by-
elections gave Suu Kyi’s party 43 of 45 seats, allowing it some
representation in the 664-member parliament still dominated by
President Thein Sein.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  