-- Swedish Unemployment Rises as Europe Crisis Hurts Exports
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-06-19T08:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/swedish-unemployment-rises-as-european-debt-crisis-hurts-exports.html
Swedish  unemployment  unexpectedly
rose in May as the euro-area debt crisis hurt demand for  exports 
from the largest Nordic economy.  The non-seasonally adjusted jobless rate climbed to 8.1
percent from 7.8 percent in April, the Stockholm-based
statistics office said today. It  was forecast  to be unchanged,
according to the median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Europe ’s deepening crisis has sapped economic growth and
dented demand for  exports , which account for about half of
 Sweden ’s economic output. Manufacturing contracted last month
for the first time this year, a survey by Swedbank AB indicated.
 Industrial production  slumped for a third month in April.  “We expect the softening trend that started about a year
ago to continue in the coming quarters, with the labor market
reacting with a delay on the sharp downturn in growth in the
second half of 2011,” Anna Raman, a senior analyst at Nykredit
Bank A/S, said in a note to clients.  Sweden’s central bank has cut its  main interest rate  twice
since December after the  economy  contracted for the first time
since 2009 in the fourth quarter. The bank kept the rate
unchanged in April after predicting growth will slow to 0.4
percent this year from 3.9 percent in 2011. It will hold its
next rate meeting on July 3.  We “maintain our view that the repo rate has bottomed out
even though risks mainly are on the downside due to the
uncertain euro-area situation,” Raman said. “As inflation
remains low and as uncertainty resulting from the euro-area debt
crisis may linger, we believe that  interest rates  will be kept
at 1.5 percent into 2013 at least.”  Swedish  consumer prices  dropped 0.1 percent in May from the
previous month, while  annual inflation  stayed below the central
bank’s 2 percent target, at 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  