-- Sweden Tells Lifers Not to Rely on One-Year Liability Fix
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-06-19T09:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/sweden-tells-lifers-not-to-rely-on-one-year-liability-fix.html
Sweden ’s financial regulator is
 warning  pension funds and life insurers not to assume a year-
long reprieve that’s eased their liabilities will be extended.  “This may provide some temporary relief, but the companies
still have to address the longer-term problems,” Otto Elmgart,
head of supervision for large insurance companies at Sweden’s
Financial Supervisory Authority, said in an interview.  The FSA this month proposed putting a floor on the discount
rate used by Sweden’s life insurers and pension funds to
calculate their liabilities, after declining market rates
inflated the cost of repaying savers. The temporary easing of
rules means companies will no longer need to dump shares and buy
up interest-bearing assets to match their obligations, ending a
cycle that had grown untenable for the industry.  “This provides some stability in this chaotic period so
that during this time of stress companies don’t go for myopic
actions that may lock in those very low yields,” he said.  Pension funds and insurers affected, which manage about 3
trillion kronor ($427 billion) in assets, still need to adjust
their businesses to ensure their investments can withstand
market volatility in the longer term, Elmgart said.  A return to a more market-based discount rate would prompt
pension funds and life insurers to resume their purchases of
long-dated debt assets to match liabilities if yields stay low.  Debt Spreads  The difference in yield, or spread, between Sweden’s 10-
year bonds and similar-maturity German bunds narrowed to two
basis points today from six basis points after rates on Sweden’s
3.5 percent note due 2022 eased to 1.49 percent.  Sweden’s 10-year yield jumped 30 basis points, or 0.30
percentage point, to 1.45 percent on June 7 as the Stockholm-
based FSA proposed the rules to limit pension liabilities.
Denmark followed on June 12 with similar legislation as Nordic
regulators fight record-low rates spurred by the region’s haven
status from the debt crisis.  “The FSA’s move was welcomed by the market, but insurers
really do need to address the longer-term problems since the
proposal is only temporary relief,” said Jussi Hiljanen, head
of fixed-income research at SEB AB in  Stockholm . “The sharp
reaction to the initial statement came as it decreased the acute
risk of forced bond buying by life insurers.”  ‘Bullet Proof’  Sweden’s pension and life insurance industry will need to
adjust to European Union-wide rules due to become effective in
January 2014 -- the so-called Solvency II package -- and
shouldn’t see this month’s regulatory intervention as a signal
they’ll receive support in the future, Elmgart said. Solvency II
is a framework based on mark-to-market principles.  In solvency calculations, insurance liabilities are
discounted at a market rate and the value of those liabilities
rises as rates fall. Swedish life insurers and pension funds
have watched their obligations soar in part as guaranteed
returns became too costly given market rates, the FSA said.  The industry is in part to blame for the mismatch in assets
and liabilities after companies constructed products that aren’t
feasible in volatile markets, Elmgart said.  “They should look over their liabilities to policyholders
and change their products so it’s something that can be
sustainable over various market scenarios,” he said. “You
can’t have guaranteed products that are only sustainable when
equity markets trend upwards. They need something more bullet
proof.”  Best Returns  Regulators in the Netherlands and  Finland  are also
exploring ways to ease pension investment rules. Denmark said
last week its decision to intervene will help its pension
industry foster longer-term investments.  “It’s key that companies have the possibility to create
the best possible returns for pensioners in the future and rules
and guidelines shouldn’t press companies to make short-term
investment decisions due to unusual conditions in the  capital
markets ,” Business and Growth Minister Ole Sohn said June 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 