-- Libor Trader Faces Ban With FSA’s ‘Weapon of Last Resort’
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-06-19T11:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/u-k-bankers-face-bans-as-fsa-wields-weapon-of-last-resort-.html
London  bankers are increasingly
being banned for life for breaking market abuse rules by a
regulator that is trying to burnish its image as a tougher
watchdog.  The number of Financial Services Authority bans peaked in
the year ended in April 2011, with 71 people excluded from the
banking and mortgage industries. That was up from 56 the
previous year while the number declined to 47 in the year ended
April 2012, according to the regulator’s  annual report  published
today. The agency banned only four people in 2003.  The use of stricter penalties comes as bankers remain
pressured by forces stemming from the financial and sovereign
debt crises. European lawmakers have introduced legislation to
cap bonuses, and employment in the London financial industry may
fall to its lowest levels in 16 years.  The bans “should be used as a weapon of last resort,”
said Arun Srivastava, the head of the financial-services group
at the  law firm   Baker & McKenzie  in London. “You have to think
about the impact on the person being prohibited, because that’s
the end of their career.”  In addition to a 2.87 million-pound ($4.5 million) fine,
the FSA banned Ravi Shankar Sinha, the former chief executive
officer of JC Flowers & Co.’s U.K. unit, in February for faking
invoices. Alberto Micalizzi, the founder of the collapsed hedge
fund Dynamic Decisions Capital Management Ltd., was given the
same penalty in May for misleading investors along with a 3
million-pound fine.  Libor Ban Threat  The regulator has also threatened at least one former
trader with a possible lifetime ban in its investigation of the
possible rigging of the London interbank offered rate and other
global  interest rates , a person familiar with the situation
said.  In a separate case, the regulator is seeking to ban Anthony Verrier, the executive managing director of BGC Partners Inc.,
after a court found he induced brokers at competitor Tullett
Prebon Plc to breach their employment contracts. Verrier is
appealing the FSA penalty at a finance tribunal in London.  The FSA, which will be spilt into two separate regulators
at the end of this year, was heavily criticized by lawmakers
following the 2008 financial crisis for failing to crack down on
wrongdoing, including  insider trading . Its “light-touch”
regulation model during the boom times was widely blamed for
allowing banks to take unnecessary risks.  ‘Credible Deterrence’  The bans are “a reflection of increased enforcement across
the board,” said  Chris Hamilton , an FSA spokesman in London.
“It’s part of the credible-deterrence strategy.” The regulator
also has the power to file criminal charges and levy fines.  The increase may also be related to smaller trading firms
and  hedge funds  opening in  England , said Arno Chakrabarti, a
lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP in London.  “There are always new shops springing up with assets under
management, so there’s a wider base of people and more smaller
firms that don’t have the large compliance departments that the
big banks do,” Chakrabarti said.  The lifetime bans doled out by the regulator may not be
fully reflected by the data on the FSA website, Chakrabarti
said. Some traders cut deals to never seek employment in the
industry to avoid publicity while others who are fired by their
employers for trading violations are effectively blackballed by
the regulator and are unlikely to receive formal approval to
work if they find another job.  ‘Tough Stance’  “Compliance teams are becoming far more assiduous in
investigating and taking a tough stance on trading offenses,”
said Jo Keddie, an employment lawyer at Winckworth Sherwood LLP
in London. It “obviously impacts any financial employee’s
ability to continue with their career.”  Getting around the bans generally requires moving to
another country outside the FSA’s jurisdiction.  Steven Perkins, an oil trader banned for five years for
trading while in an “alcohol-induced blackout,” was hired by
 Starsupply Renewables SA  in  Switzerland  to write training
materials in Geneva for graduate recruits. Starsupply, now a
unit of New York-based GFI Group Inc., said at the time that
Perkins “is a good man, who did a stupid thing,” and it wanted
to give him a chance to rebuild his career.  Sachin Karpe, a former desk head at UBS AG’s wealth-
management unit in London, moved to  India ’s Altamount Capital
Management while he unsuccessfully fought a lifetime ban for
making as many as 50 unauthorized trades from client accounts.  Swiss Escape  “It’s not surprising that someone’s off to India or off to
Switzerland,” Srivastava said. “You’ve got some guy earning X-
hundred thousand pounds a year, suddenly he’s dismissed, it
doesn’t leave him many options.”  Some traders may skirt the bans by finding consulting jobs
that don’t require regulatory clearance. Perkins’s new position
wouldn’t have required FSA oversight if it was in the U.K.  “You can do things in finance that don’t require FSA
approval,” said Chakrabarti. “Finding clients doesn’t, so if
your job is originating deals, you can continue to do that. A
prohibition order isn’t supposed to make people unemployed
forever.”  The FSA doesn’t limit the bans to wealthy bankers. A
disproportionate number of the penalties are imposed on mortgage
brokers and traders at small firms who don’t have the resources
to mount a defense, said Tim Dolan, a regulatory lawyer at
Pinsent Masons LLP in London.  Some of the FSA’s highest-profile penalties -- against
Greenlight Capital Inc. Chairman  David Einhorn , former JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s global chairman of equity capital markets Ian Hannam, and Credit Suisse Group AG head of European credit sales
Nicholas Kyprios -- didn’t include bans.  The increased use of lifetime bans “is a useful
deterrent,” but “ideally one would want to see a more
consistent treatment,” Dolan said. “The FSA wants to be
proactive, and at the end of the day, they still hold the pen in
terms of deciding who can be an approved person in the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  