-- U.K. Carbon VAT Fraud Gang Jailed for Total of 15 Years
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-06-19T12:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/u-k-carbon-vat-fraud-gang-jailed-for-total-of-15-years.html
(Corrects total sentence in headline.)  Three members of a U.K. gang seeking
to steal “as much money as possible” from the public purse in
a value-added  tax fraud  involving carbon permits were sentenced
yesterday to a total of 35 years in jail, the government said.  Sandeep Singh Dosanjh was jailed for 15 years, Navdeep
Singh Gill for 11 years and Ranjot Singh Chahal for nine years,
Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs said  today in a statement  on
its website. Four other people were acquitted, Sara Pont, a
spokeswoman for HMRC, said by phone today.  The gang set up a chain of bogus companies in order to
trade fraudulently in European Union emissions allowances,
stealing around 38 million pounds ($60 million) through a
“complex missing-trader fraud” in a six-month period starting
in January 2009, according to the statement.  Europe  lost about 5
billion euros ($6.3 billion) in revenue for the 18 months ending
2009 because of the CO2 VAT fraud, according to an estimate by
Europol, the European law-enforcement agency.  “This was a deliberate attempt to steal as much money as
possible from the public purse by a criminal gang interested
only in lining their own pockets,”  Chris Martin , an HMRC
criminal investigations official, said in the statement. “HMRC
will not stand by and let crooks rip off honest taxpayers. The
message is clear: if you attempt to defraud the Exchequer, we
will track you down and bring you to court.”  The gang was arrested by HMRC officers in a series of dawn
raids in August 2009, the government said. The law was changed
to prevent carbon permit VAT fraud because of the investigation,
it said.  Bogus Import Companies  After the bogus companies imported the carbon permits free
of VAT into the U.K., they sold them on, charging VAT which was
never paid to HMRC, and then dissolved the importing companies,
according to the statement. The allowances were then sold on
again between three further so-called “buffer” companies,
which were also run by the gang, HMRC said.  They were finally offloaded to legitimate companies so the
trading chain appeared legal, according to the statement. The
VAT charged by the “missing trader” was then shared out
between the gang. Buyers included  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Michael Parroy , a
prosecution lawyer, said in March this year.  The trades were made in a matter of minutes via computer
and the stolen VAT was transferred to offshore bank accounts in
the  United Arab Emirates  to “clean” the stolen cash, which the
gang spent on luxury cars and an expensive London home, the
government said.  “Confiscation proceedings are under way to ensure that the
criminals do not profit from their crimes,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  