-- U.K. Inflation Slows to Weakest Since November 2009 on Fuel
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-19T11:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/u-k-inflation-slows-to-least-since-november-2009-on-fuel-1-.html
U.K. inflation  slowed to the weakest
in 2 1/2 years in May, led by food and fuel prices, which may
ease resistance among  Bank of England  policy makers to increase
monetary stimulus.  Consumer prices rose a 2.8 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a 3 percent increase in April, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in  London . That’s the weakest
since November 2009. Economists had forecast a gain of 3
percent, the median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey
showed. From April, prices fell 0.1 percent, the first drop in
that period since records began in 1996.  While inflation has held above the central bank’s 2 percent
target since December 2009, price pressures are easing as oil
and food costs drop and  Europe ’s debt turmoil continues to weigh
on Britain. The Bank of England responded last week by
introducing measures to stoke bank lending, and Governor  Mervyn King  said the case for restarting stimulus is “growing.”  “Inflation is likely to fall a lot further on energy
prices, and there’s a lot of slack in the economy,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “The
central bank will increase asset purchases in July. They think
the euro crisis will linger for longer and they want to be ahead
of the curve.”  The pound weakened against the dollar immediately after the
data were published before recovering. It traded at $1.5681 as
of 12:47 p.m. in London, up 0.1 percent on the day. Sterling
fell 0.3 percent against the euro. The yield on the 10-year
government bond fell 2 basis points to 1.64 percent.  Food, Fuel Costs  The biggest downward pressure on the annual inflation rate
came from motor fuels as well as food and non-alcoholic drinks,
the statistics office said.  Core inflation , which excludes
alcohol, food, tobacco and energy prices, accelerated to 2.2
percent in May from 2.1 percent in April.  Retail-price inflation , a measure used in wage
negotiations, eased to 3.1 percent in May from 3.5 percent in
April, today’s report showed. The retail-price index excluding
mortgage-interest payments also cooled to 3.1 percent.  In a separate report today, the ONS said U.K.  house prices 
rose 1.4 percent in April from a year earlier, the biggest
increase since December 2010.  ‘Black Cloud’  Bank of England policy makers held their  bond-purchase plan 
at 325 billion pounds ($508 billion) this month and the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent. The bank
will publish the minutes of the decision tomorrow showing how
officials voted.  King announced a “funding for lending” program last week
to encourage credit growth in the U.K. and to combat a “black
cloud” from the worsening sovereign debt crisis in Europe.  The central bank forecast in May that annual consumer-price
gains will slow to its 2 percent goal by about the middle of
next year and to about 1.6 percent in two years.  “It looks to me like they are going to undershoot their
inflation forecast, giving them some room for that monetary
easing King alluded to,” Tom Vosa, an economist at National
Australia Bank, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television in
London. “The U.K. economy at best is flatlining.”  U.K.  consumer confidence  “isn’t getting any better”  Tesco
Plc (TSCO)  Chief Executive Officer Philip Clarke said June 11, and
falling  oil prices  are “the great hope” for shoppers. The
U.K.’s largest supermarket company said domestic sales fell for
a fourth quarter.  Oil prices have fallen more than 20 percent since the start
of May. Last month, global food prices had their biggest drop in
more than two years, with an index of 55 food items tracked by
the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization dropping 4.2
percent. U.K. factory-output prices fell 2.5 percent in May as
energy prices declined, the statistics office said on June 8.  “Given all the other challenges facing us, it’s a welcome
respite,”  Danny Alexander , chief secretary to the U.K.
Treasury, said on  BBC television . “Inflation is heading back
towards target. Given the squeeze on real incomes, this is a
welcome step in the right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  