-- U.K. Shareholders to Get More Control Over Executive Pay
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-06-20T12:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/u-k-to-give-shareholders-votes-on-top-pay-boost-disclosure.html
Public companies in the U.K. will
have to give shareholders binding votes on executive-pay
structures every three years, Business Secretary Vince Cable
told lawmakers.  Other measures in the package, to take effect in October
2013, will require companies to publish a single figure for what
each director is paid in total, their pension entitlement and a
chart comparing the company’s performance and the chief
executive officer’s pay. When directors leave, the company will
have to publish “promptly” a statement of their payoff.  A study last year by the  High Pay Commission , a pressure
group that pushes for curbs on top earners, found British
directors’ salaries increased by 64 percent over the past
decade, while the average year-end share price of FTSE 100
companies fell 71 percent. The average annual bonus for
directors rose 187 percent, according to the panel.  “There is compelling evidence of a disconnect between pay
and performance in large U.K.-listed companies,” Cable said in
a statement to Parliament today. “It is right that the
government acts to address this clear market failure.”  Cable said he hoped that having votes on pay structures
every three years, rather than annually, will encourage longer-
term thinking. If a company changes its structures, it’ll be
forced to have a fresh vote.  Long-Term  “This will encourage companies to set out and stick to a
clear, long-term pay strategy,” Cable said. “And it will help
put a brake on the annual upward pay ratchet.”  The moves, which will be implemented through amendments to
the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Bill currently before
Parliament, are aimed partly at ending “golden goodbye”
packages for departing executives, often criticized as rewards
for failure. The policy on exit payments will be part of the
package that shareholders vote on, and companies won’t be able
to go beyond it.  Chuka Umunna, the opposition  Labour Party ’s business
spokesman, said that having votes every three years would weaken
the proposals. “Isn’t it the case that this incentivizes boards
to draft policy as broadly as possible?” he said.  The pay-policy vote will see the company explaining to
shareholders how rewards support the company’s objectives, and
how directors’ pay compares to that of the wider workforce.  Advisory Votes  Alongside the binding vote every third year, companies will
continue to have advisory annual votes on how the policy has
been implemented. If these votes are lost, it’ll force a binding
vote on policy the following year.  Companies will have to make a statement when a
“significant minority” vote against a pay resolution. No
threshold has been set, but Cable said he thought it should be
around 25 percent.  Business leaders welcomed the move. Simon Walker, director-
general of the Institute of Directors, said Cable’s proposals
“reflect a reasonable balance between improving the
accountability of executive pay and encouraging a longer-term
business perspective.”  It’s “important for investors and the manager they choose
to run a business to be in alignment,”  John Cridland , the
director general of the  Confederation of British Industry , the
country’s biggest lobby, told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program
earlier. “I don’t think today’s proposals hobble management.
But it does show you who is in charge and that’s the owners.”  In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Act has given shareholders a
non-binding vote on top  executive compensation  since January
2011. In August, pay experts said companies whose policies on
compensation got a vote below about 80 percent were taking it as
a sign of shareholder discontent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  