-- Treasuries Drop for First Time in 3 Days on Fed, Europe
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-06-19T21:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/u-s-30-year-yields-are-near-two-week-low-before-spain-bill-sale.html
Treasuries fell for the first time
in three days as the  Federal Reserve  opened a meeting amid
speculation it may do more to boost the economy and investors
bet European leaders will make progress on their debt crisis.  U.S.  30-year bond yields  rose from the lowest level in
almost two weeks as a European official signaled Greece may get
an easing of the economic-performance targets set as a condition
for it to receive international aid. Euro-area leaders at the
Group of 20 summit pledged to “take all necessary policy
measures” to defend the currency union, according to Canadian
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper .  “There is optimism that European policy makers are getting
their acts together and optimism the Fed is going to take some
further action tomorrow, which is taking some of the safe-haven
buying out of the Treasury market,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director in  New York  of government trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co., a broker dealer for institutional investors.
“Any selloff in rates will be limited until we get concrete
answers.”  The 30-year yield climbed seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 2.73 percent at 5:10 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data, after touching 2.64
percent earlier, the least since June 6. It reached a record low
2.51 percent on June 1. The price of the 3 percent security
maturing in May 2042 tumbled 1 17/32, or $15.31 per $1,000 face
amount, to 105 13/32.  The benchmark  10-year note  yield increased five basis
points to 1.62 percent.  Risk Appetite  Stocks rallied as investor risk appetite swelled. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1 percent.  Treasuries returned 3.3 percent from the end of March to
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Treasury
Master index, amid concern  Europe ’s debt crisis was worsening
and U.S. growth was slowing. The  S&P 500  lost 4.1 percent, after
taking account of reinvested dividends.  A valuation measure showed U.S. 10-year notes remained at
almost the most expensive level ever. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, was at negative 0.87 percent,
after reaching a record of negative 0.94 percent on June 1 as
investors sought refuge from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
over the past decade is 0.50 percent.  Volatility Slides  Volatility in the Treasuries market dropped yesterday by
the most since November 2010, sliding 10.2 percent to 85.7 basis
points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index.
The gauge measures price swings based on options. The one-year
average is 88.2 basis points.  Trading  volume  increased today while remaining below
average. About $214 billion of Treasuries changed hands through
ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker, compared with
an average of $254 billion over the past year. Volume was $188
billion yesterday, the least since May 25.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 7 that Europe’s
situation poses “significant risks” to the  U.S. economy  and
that the Fed was prepared to take action if necessary. U.S.
industrial production unexpectedly fell last month and retail
sales and consumer prices declined, data showed last week.  Central-bank policy makers will issue a statement after
their two-day meeting concludes tomorrow.  “There’s a slight increase in the odds of Fed action,”
said  John Briggs , a U.S. government bond strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , one of the
21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  The Fed’s  Operation Twist  program, in which it’s selling
$400 billion of Treasuries maturing in three years or less and
buying an equal amount of bonds with a maturity of six years to
30 years to cap borrowing costs, is set to expire this month.  Fed Purchase  The Fed bought $1.72 billion of Treasuries today due from
August 2022 to February 2031 as part of the program, which
followed two rounds of debt purchases under quantitative easing,
or QE, from 2008 through 2011.  The  yield gap  between 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, a signal of traders’ expectations for
inflation called the break-even rate, was 2.15 percentage
points. It touched a 2012 low of 1.9 percentage points on Jan. 3
and a high of 2.45 percentage points on March 20.  Treasuries remained lower after Commerce Department data
showed  housing starts  in the U.S. dropped 4.8 percent in May to
a 708,000 annual pace from a revised 744,000 rate in April that
was the highest since October 2008. The median forecast of 77
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 722,000 pace.  Spanish Bonds  Spanish 10-year bond yields declined as much as 13 basis
points to 7.03 percent, after climbing yesterday to a euro-era
record of 7.29 percent. The nation met its maximum target at a
bill auction.  Spain  asked on June 9 for aid to rescue its
lenders, becoming the fourth euro member to seek a bailout since
the debt crisis began.  G-20 leaders, in a statement to be issued later today in
Los Cabos,  Mexico , back Europe’s plans to move toward a more
integrated banking industry,  Canada ’s Harper told reporters.  A first step to  Greece  winning a revision of its bailout
terms will be when the nation’s still to-be-formed government
requests modifications to the 240 billion-euro ($303 billion)
rescue programs, leading to a revision of economic-performance
targets sometime before September, a European official told
reporters in Brussels earlier today.  Europe floated the relief as the victor in the June 17
Greek election, Antonis Samaras of the New Democracy party,
accelerated preparations for a coalition government.  Net Neutral  Treasuries investors were net neutral on the securities
last week for the first time in June after raising bets on gains
to a level matching their wagers on decreases, according to a
survey by the primary dealer JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The proportion of net shorts, or bets the securities would
fall compared with those on an advance, was trimmed to zero in
the week ended yesterday, from six percentage points the
previous week. The level of outright shorts dropped from 19
percent to 17 percent, equaling the level of outright longs,
which rose from 13 percent a week earlier. A long position is a
bet that an asset will increase in value.  “Investors remain very neutral, but the shift from last
week is an increase in longs,” said Srini Ramaswamy, a
strategist in New York at JPMorgan Chase. “It’s not surprising,
given the macro uncertainty. Treasury yields remain a reflection
of European concerns and policy there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  