-- U.S. Soybean Stocks Seen Lower as Shipments Strengthen
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-06-19T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/u-s-soybean-stocks-seen-lower-as-shipments-strengthen.html
U.S. soybean stockpiles are seen
smaller than previously estimated because of strengthening
demand for the country’s exports and decreasing supplies in
 South America , Oil World said.  U.S.  inventories  at the end of the marketing year on Aug.
31 may be 4.2 million metric tons, down from a forecast three
weeks ago of 4.6 million tons, the Hamburg-based researcher said
today in an e-mailed report. Supplies may be as much as 400,000
tons smaller than the projection, “approaching absolute minimum
pipeline requirements,” it said.  U.S. soybean crushing and net exports jumped 32 percent in
May from a year earlier, Oil World said. Total stockpiles in
South America’s five largest producers slid to 72.36 million
tons on June 1, 25 percent less than a year earlier. Soybeans
have climbed about 10 percent this year on the Chicago Board of
Trade as drought cut South American output and Chinese demand
increased.  “This creates a clearly bullish scenario, as the current
unusually small stocks will enforce rationing in coming
months,” Oil World Said. “Some rationing is likely to occur
already in June and July, but most of it will be done from
August 2012 until early 2013.”  China , the world’s biggest soybean consumer, imported a
record 23.4 million tons from January to May, Oil World said.
Purchases may reach at least 57 million tons in the 2011-12
marketing year that ends Sept. 30, or 9 percent more than a year
earlier.  “It is still a major unknown whether logistics in the
U.S.A. will be able to satisfy the prospective huge global
demand for U.S. oilseeds and products in the coming six to eight
months,” Oil World said. “Much will also depend on the further
Chinese buying policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Claudia
Carpenter at   ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  