-- U.S. Lawmakers Head to Exits as Partisanship Trumps Legislating
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-06-19T02:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/u-s-lawmakers-head-to-exits-as-partisanship-trumps-legislating.html
Congress is broken because scoring
political points to tear down the opposition has replaced the
craft of legislating, retiring U.S. lawmakers said in a
discussion about why they are leaving Washington.  Two Republicans and two Democrats, representing the House
and Senate, described their frustrations with what they called a
supercharged partisan atmosphere that has helped them decide it
is time to end their congressional careers.  With Congress’s public-approval rating near a historic low,
lawmakers urged their colleagues who will stay on next year to
listen to the other side and find consensus.  Both sides are “not building anything around the
commonality of issues,” and “there is an overabundance of
hate,”  New York  Democratic Representative Gary Ackerman said at
a panel discussion sponsored by Bloomberg Businessweek.  The two parties have “become completely intolerant of the
other side,” he said. No longer are fights over “good and
bad” legislation. “It’s the fight between good and evil,” he
said. Lawmakers “can compromise between bad and worse and
terrible, but you can’t compromise between good and evil.”  “It’s all about winning the White House,” said Ackerman,
who came to Congress in 1983. The attacks have become “vicious
and vile. That is the dangerous place we are at right now.”  Seeking Consensus  Republican Senator  Olympia Snowe  of  Maine , who bucked her
party to help Democrats pass President  Barack Obama ’s economic-
stimulus program in 2009, said seeking consensus with the
opposition is no longer rewarded.  “There is a political price to pay for crossing the
political aisle,” she said. “Today there is no reward for
that.” Congress “can’t solve the problems and transcend
differences. We have lost the art of legislating,” said Snowe,
who has spent 33 years in Congress, first in the House and then
the Senate. “We are not talking with people with whom we
disagree.”  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat who heads the Senate
Budget Committee, said he realized it was “time for me to
leave” when a senior colleague told him “your problem, Conrad,
is you’re too solutions-oriented. You’ve never understood this
is political theater.’”  The lawmakers also said television networks that cater to
the political biases of their viewers contribute to
polarization.  Fox and MSNBC  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox News Network carries Republican
commentators such as political consultant  Karl Rove , and  MSNBC 
features pro-Democratic hosts such as  Rachel Maddow  and Ed
Schultz.  “People tend to listen to what they agree with,” said
Conrad. Members of Congress “are probably the only ones who
watch both Fox and MSNBC,” Ackerman said.  Lawmakers said they have endured pressure not to cooperate
with the opposition. Ackerman said he has been asked by fellow
Democrats, “‘Why are you co-sponsoring so-and-so’s bill? Don’t
you know he’s vulnerable and we are looking to take him out’”
in the next election?  Snowe said she has been asked why she has been talking with
certain lawmakers about specific issues.  Representative Geoff Davis, a Kentucky Republican who isn’t
seeking re-election to a fifth term, said partisanship isn’t
new.  Rostenkowski’s Rules  When Illinois Democrat Dan Rostenkowski was chairman of the
House Ways Means Committee in the late 1980s, “Democrats didn’t
recognize Republicans” during committee debates, he said. If
Republicans pushed too hard for a chance to amend legislation,
“Rostenkowski would adjourn the committee and write the bill
with staff.”  Davis, the least critical of partisanship, said Congress
too often wants “to treat the symptom and ignore the root
causes” of a problem. He said lawmakers will address the
nation’s issues because “the greatest source of inspiration is
desperation.”  Conrad said he remains optimistic. “At its best moments,
the Senate is a place where people can come together,” he said,
recalling the work of the presidential deficit-reduction
commission headed by former Republican Senator  Alan Simpson  and
 Erskine Bowles , chief of staff under former President  Bill Clinton .  A bipartisan group of senators who served on the commission
agreed to support a plan for $3.8 trillion in budget savings,
Conrad said. None of his aides recommended that he vote for the
plan, he said.  While he disagreed with many items in the plan, he said he
told his staff, “The only thing worse than being for this would
be being against it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  