-- U.S. Stocks Advance to One-Month High as Fed Meets
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-19T20:33:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/u-s-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-citigroup-falls.html
U.S. stocks advanced, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the highest level in more than a
month, as investors speculated the Federal Reserve will announce
more measures to stimulate the world’s largest economy.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  climbed 4.5 percent as the Federal
Housing Finance Agency said it plans to help banks avoid being
forced to buy back mortgages amid concern lenders are tightening
standards even for the most creditworthy buyers.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) ,
operator of the largest cargo airline, jumped 2.8 percent after
pledging “significant cost reductions.”  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
increased 2.9 percent after unveiling a tablet computer.  The S&P 500 rose 1 percent to 1,357.98 at 4 p.m. New York
time, gaining for a fourth day. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
added 95.51 points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,837.33. Trading volume
for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was about 6.8 billion
shares, or almost in line with the three-month average.  “It’s possible that the Federal Reserve will do something
else,” said David Kelly, who helps oversee about $394 billion
as chief market strategist at JPMorgan Funds in New York. “It’s
possible that they will do some further extension of Operation
Twist. They seem overly sensitive to the possibility that the
market will react badly to them not taking action.”  Signs of slowing growth amid Europe’s turmoil could mean
the Fed, which began a two-day meeting today, could extend its
so-called Operation Twist, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
Jefferies & Co. The program involves selling short-term debt and
buying longer-term bonds. A more aggressive response could be
warranted if the Fed see high costs in a slowdown of growth.  Fed’s Options  The central bank may expand its balance sheet, extend
Operation Twist and/or lengthen its short-term interest rate
guidance beyond late 2014, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. chief
economist Jan Hatzius wrote today.  “A decision not to ease is tantamount to a tightening,”
he wrote in an e-mailed report to clients today. “At this point
we’d be quite surprised if we saw no easing.”  Expectations for further policy action gave stocks their
first back-to-back  weekly  gain since April on June 15. The  S&P
500  earlier this month was on the brink of a so-called
correction, or a 10 percent drop from a recent peak, on concern
about a global slowdown and a worsening of Europe’s crisis.  Equities briefly pared gains as a German official said the
Group of 20 leaders didn’t discuss any specific plans for
Europe’s rescue funds to buy the bonds of euro-area governments.
Haggling among Greek political leaders is set to continue for a
third day over a coalition that will seek relief from austerity
measures tied to emergency loans, with Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  saying a new government could be ready by midday
tomorrow. Spanish bond yields fell after yesterday’s surge.  100 Days  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  traded near its average price of the last 100
days of about 1,359. A rally above that level could be
considered a harbinger of more gains, according to analysts who
study charts to make forecasts. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, which measures the cost of using
options as insurance against S&P 500 losses, rose 0.3 percent to
18.38, after slumping 25 percent in three days.  Seven out of 10 groups in the S&P 500 rose today as
commodity, financial and industrial shares had the  biggest
gains . The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied
to the economy increased 2 percent. The KBW Bank Index rallied 2
percent as all of its 24 stocks advanced.  Bank of America  surged 4.5 percent to $8.11. The FHFA will
detail flaws that would trigger a putback request, Stefanie
Johnson, a spokeswoman for the FHFA, said in a statement.  Wealth Manager  Julius Baer Group Ltd. is in talks with Bank of America
about acquiring its Merrill Lynch wealth management business
outside the U.S. The Bank of America wealth unit may fetch about
$2 billion, said a person familiar with the matter.  JPMorgan added 2.2 percent to $35.38. Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  told U.S. House members that he complied
with disclosure rules in warning investors about changes that
contributed to the bank’s trading loss of at least $2 billion.
It was his second appearance on Capitol Hill in less than a week
to explain how the firm lost control of its derivatives trades.  FedEx, which is considered an economic bellwether, gained
2.8 percent to $91.01. The company’s express unit, which
accounts for the bulk of sales, is developing a detailed
strategy to improve efficiency in its operating expenses, Chief
Financial Officer Alan Graf said on an earnings call.  Microsoft added 2.9 percent to $30.70. The Windows-powered
tablet computer called Surface alters the company’s strategy of
focusing on software and relying on partners to make the
machines, in a renewed attempt to take on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.
 Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  rallied 6.7 percent to $13.24. Microsoft said the
tablet computer will be powered by its Tegra processor.  Oracle’s Results  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  advanced 3.1 percent to $27.96. The world’s
largest maker of  database software  reported that fiscal fourth-
quarter profit topped analysts’ estimates, buoyed by sales of
new software licenses.  Goodyear (GT)  Tire & Rubber Co. and  Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB) 
rose as a global rubber deficit is projected to turn into a
surplus in the second half, driving down the price tiremakers
pay for the raw material. Goodyear increased 5.6 percent to
$11.53. Cooper Tire added 3.2 percent to $17.23.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  jumped 5 percent to $30.88. The largest U.S.
life insurer got more time to submit a fresh capital plan to the
Fed as the firm seeks to raise its dividend and resume buybacks
after being twice blocked by the regulator.  Take Over  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  tumbled 8.6 percent to $22.25, the lowest
since 2010. The company’s merchandising and marketing chief is
leaving, and Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson  will take over
his duties, following a marketing strategy that has flopped with
shoppers. The departure comes as Johnson struggles to remake the
retailer’s image and overhaul its pricing strategy.  “They weren’t happy with the marketing direction, and it
wasn’t resonating with consumers,” said Lizabeth Dunn, an
analyst with Macquarie Group in New York. “They really want to
emphasize price and product more obviously in marketing.”  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  dropped 5.9 percent to $30.09. The largest
U.S. drugstore chain agreed to pay $6.7 billion for a 45 percent
stake in the U.K.’s Alliance Boots, with an option to gain full
control in about three years.  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  slumped 4 percent to $14.63. The
largest U.S. bookstore chain posted fourth-quarter revenue that
trailed analysts’ estimates.  The peak in  stock trading  during the market’s decline after
April was less than half the volume triggered during the slumps
in 2011 and 2010, a sign bears could come back in force,
according to Bank of America.  Changed Hands  About 4.67 billion shares changed hands on the New York
Stock Exchange on June 1, the busiest trading since the S&P 500
started its  retreat  from this year’s high in April, according to
data compiled by Bank of America and Bloomberg. That compared
with peak volume of more than 9.5 billion in the previous two
years, the data show.  The S&P 500 tumbled 9.9 percent from April 2 through June 1
and has since risen 6.3 percent. The relatively slow trading
during the retreat suggests a lack of “volume shakeout” and
means bears may still have the power to drive the market lower,
according to Mary Ann Bartels, a New York-based technical
analyst at Bank of America.  “While the short-term technicals support the case for a
rally, the risk is that sellers are not yet completely exhausted
and an adverse macro news event could trigger a future
shakeout,” Bartels wrote in a note dated yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  