-- Ukraine Captive to Soviet Era After Lending Collapse: Mortgages
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-06-20T10:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/ukraine-captive-to-soviet-era-after-lending-collapse-mortgages.html
Olesya Myhal, a 28-year-old public-
relations executive who lives in a cramped  Kiev  apartment with
her husband, is also being squeezed in other ways.  Ukraine’s weakening currency inflated the principal of the
couple’s 20-year dollar mortgage, while high prices and loan
rates are preventing them from moving up the property ladder.
Higher mortgage payments mean they can’t afford to modernize
their 58 square-meter (624 square-foot) Soviet-era home.  For most of Kiev’s 3 million residents, including the
nascent middle class, buying a home isn’t an option. Eight 
years after the Orange Revolution propelled the country 
toward closer European integration and kick started a 
real-estate boom, the cost of a house as a proportion of the
average income is among the highest in Eastern  Europe  even
as prices lag behind.  “For many people, it’s almost impossible to have their own
apartment,” Myhal said in an interview at the Landysh, named
after the lily of the valley flower, in downtown Kiev.  The average price of a non-luxury apartment in Kiev is
about $1,500 a square meter, Knight Frank LLP estimates. That’s
about half as much as a home in Prague and two-thirds of one in
Warsaw. When average incomes are taken into account, Kiev
residents are far less able to afford a property, earning $560 a
month compared with $1,400 in Warsaw and $1,500 in Prague.  Euro 2012  Ukraine, with a population almost five times that of
 Portugal  and an economy half the size, is hosting this month’s
European soccer championship with Poland. The construction of
airports and hotels may help the former Soviet republic achieve
its goal of as much as 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) in
tourist revenue from the three-week tournament, according to
government forecasts. Erste Group Bank AG estimates the revenue
will be 400 million euros.  That may not be enough to help the housing industry, which
has stagnated since the 2008 credit crisis that started with
rising losses on U.S. home loans and spread globally. Ukraine
signed a $16.4 billion bailout from the  International Monetary
Fund  as its economy plunged almost 15 percent in 2009. Banks
have since raised borrowing rates and granted fewer loans.  The hryvnia has declined 41 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
since the middle of 2008, hurting Ukrainians that took out
dollar-denominated mortgages to benefit from relatively low
borrowing costs versus rising property prices. The currency may
lose another 10 percent of its value after parliamentary
elections in October, according to Vladimir Tsibanov, an
economist for Societe Generale’s OAO Rosbank unit in Moscow.  Higher Payments  Natalia Orlovskaya, a 40-year-old video-producer, took out
a 15-year dollar loan in 2006 to buy a Kiev apartment. At the
time, the monthly payments of $450 were equivalent to 2,250
hryvnia.  “Now we’re paying more than 3,600 hryvnia, which is a
quarter of the family’s income,” she said.  Hungarians, whose country borders Ukraine to the west,
suffered a similar fate, when their currency’s collapse against
the Swiss franc caused hundreds of millions of forint in bank
losses, saddled homeowners with ballooning repayments and
stalled the mortgage market. Swiss-franc loans had been marketed
in  Hungary  as a device to protect homeowners. Instead, they have
become a burden for borrowers because of the franc’s strength.  The share of home purchases in Ukraine financed by
mortgages fell to about 7 percent last year from 30 percent in
2007, at the end of the country’s four-year property boom,
according to Dragon Capital, a Kiev-based investment bank. In
neighboring  Poland , it’s about 70 percent.  Mortgage Slump  “The mortgage market’s had a massive decline,” said
Volodymyr Tymochko, the managing director in charge of the
company’s real-estate division. “Everything just stopped.”  Kiev’s real-estate market began growing when Ukraine’s 2004
Orange Revolution catapulted  Viktor Yushchenko  into power. As
president, the former central bank chief and advocate for
European Union membership encouraged closer ties to the West and
a stricter rule of law to protect ownership rights, encouraging
an investor boom.  Ukraine’s  economy  expanded by an average of 7.5 percent a
year from 2004 through 2007, creating a middle class of mostly
young professionals and married couples that snapped up new
residential properties, according to Tymochko.  Like the rest of Europe, Kiev’s housing market ground to a
halt in 2007 as losses on U.S. housing debt spread to infect
bank balance sheets globally and economic growth slowed. The
middle class, the biggest source of demand, was punished the
most, said Mykola Tolmachov, the general director of TMM Real
Estate Development Plc.  Shuttered Businesses  “So many people closed their business,” Tolmachov said in
an interview at TMM’s Kiev headquarters. “Ukraine’s investment
image is a problem.”  Rising borrowing costs also deterred buyers, causing the
number of home sales to drop to 10,024 in the first five months
from a year earlier, real-estate brokerage SV Development
estimates. At the market’s peak in 2008, 29,915 transactions
were completed.  At the same time,  mortgage rates  jumped to almost 30
percent in 2010 from about 10 percent in 2007, and now stand at
around 18 percent, according to Dragon Capital.  Ukraine’s “weak economic performance will continue to
weigh on banks’ credit growth and financial positions over the
next 12 to 18 months,” Moody’s Investors Service said in a June
1 report. The rating company has a “negative” rating on the
country’s banking system and grades Ukraine B2, the fifth-
highest junk ranking.  Bad Loans  Bad loans will account for about 35 percent of the total by
the end of 2012 as real GDP growth decelerates to between 2.5
percent and 3 percent from 5.2 percent in 2011, Moody’s said.  Ukrainian mortgages outstanding fell 14 percent in 2011
from the previous year, totaling 70.5 billion hryvnia ($8.7
billion), according to the central bank.  Mortgage loans  shrank
in the first four months of the year to about 66 billion
hryvnia.  In March, the government announced a plan to make home
loans cheaper for some families by contributing to the
repayments. The 1 billion-hryvnia program for new mortgages
would boost the country’s construction industry, Prime Minister
 Mykola Azarov  said at a meeting in Kiev today.  Developers are trying to create special financing
arrangements with banks to find affordable ways to get people
into homes, even while mortgage rates remain in double-digits.  Unaffordable Mortgages  “Mortgages are still very expensive,” said TMM’s
Tolmachov. About 15 percent of the developer’s sales rely on
mortgage financing. TMM is working with state-run Oshchadbank.  “They should be in the 5 to 7 percent range,” Tolmachov
said. “Unfortunately, banks don’t have the type of resources to
provide loans for 20 years at such rates.”  For now, there is no reason for Kiev’s mortgage market to
improve, said Ivan Ulitko, an analyst at Erste Bank in Kiev.  “Mortgages are risky because of the very high  interest
rates  imposed on loans and the expected decline in property
prices,” Ulitko said. “It’s very hard to find a client with
the right risk profile to carry such an expensive loan.”  Myhal considers herself lucky to have been able to buy an
apartment four years ago at an affordable mortgage rate of 11
percent. Still, the prospect of finding a new home with enough
space to start a family means she would have to take on a higher
rate or sell her current apartment for less than the mortgage
value. She may have a more radical solution.  “It would be cheaper for us to rent a house in  Bulgaria 
and find a tenant for our flat in Kiev,” she said. “We could
live by the sea and have some fun.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James M. Gomez in  Prague  at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net . 