-- Lumina Copper Invites BHP Deal With Argentine Discount
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-06-19T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/lumina-copper-invites-bhp-deal-with-argentine-discount.html
Lumina Copper Corp. (LCC)  is offering the
biggest mining companies a chance to acquire one of the world’s
largest deposits of the metal for 26 cents on the dollar.  Lumina, owner of the Taca Taca copper project in Argentina,
put itself up for sale last week after plummeting more than 50
percent from its all-time high of C$17.01 a share three months
ago. As investors avoided Argentine assets after the government
seized oil producer  YPF SA (YPFD)  in April, Vancouver-based Lumina’s
 slump  left it trading at a 74 percent discount to its net asset
value, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While the Taca Taca mine won’t start producing until 2017
and will cost $3 billion to develop, Adrian Day Asset Management
says Lumina is now cheap enough to lure  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  or Rio
Tinto Group as copper reserves are exhausted and deposits become
harder to find. Lumina sells for less than 2 cents per pound of
copper resources and buyers in similar deals have paid twice as
much, Raymond James Financial Inc. said. Yesterday,  Yamana Gold
Inc. (YRI)  agreed to buy  Extorre Gold Mines Ltd. (XG) , which ceded control
of its own Argentine project after it became too costly.  Lumina has “a lot of potential,” Adam Low, a Toronto-
based analyst for Raymond James, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s part of the game of being a major natural resources
company that you have to go to some areas that are less
politically stable. The world’s major mining companies will
definitely have interest in the project.”  Today, Lumina jumped 7.8 percent to C$9.91 a share.  David Strang, Lumina’s chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview that the company is an attractive takeover
candidate because “there’s been a distinct lack of good quality
projects being discovered that can help offset the growing
demand” in the copper market.  Taca Taca  He declined to say whether Lumina has been approached by
BHP or Rio Tinto about bidding for the company. Lumina had a
 market capitalization  of C$376 million ($368 million) yesterday.  Lumina’s Taca Taca development, comprising 25 square
kilometers (9.7 square miles), is located in northwestern
 Argentina  and contains deposits of copper, gold and molybdenum,
according to the company’s  website . The project is 120
kilometers (75 miles) east of BHP’s own Escondida mine, which is
the world’s largest copper mine and located in  Chile .  Before Lumina said June 15 it would review options to boost
returns, the stock had tumbled  54 percent  from its high in March
as the nationalization of YPF, Argentina’s largest oil company,
and measures by President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
administration to limit the sale of pesos for dollars prompted
investors to sell assets tied the South American nation.  Relative Value  The decline was almost four times as much as the 14 percent
loss for  metals and mining companies  in the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The share slump has been “all about Argentina,”  George Topping , a Toronto-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said
in a telephone interview. “The company itself has delivered.”  Since announcing the review, Lumina’s stock has jumped 17
percent, ending at C$9.19 a share yesterday. At that price, the
company is valued at 0.26 times its net asset value per share,
based on the average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Using  Raymond James ’ calculation for net asset value of
C$60.46 a share, Lumina trades at just 0.15 times.  Lumina is an appealing takeover candidate because it
controls one of the world’s five biggest copper deposits that
isn’t already owned by a global mining company, said Adrian Day,
who oversees about $155 million as president of Adrian Day Asset
in Annapolis,  Maryland .  The Taca Taca mine will produce about 250,000 tons of
copper a year over its life, according to Stifel’s estimate.  Limited Number  That’s more than the 2011 production at any of BHP’s own
copper mines, except for Escondida, which had about 473,000 tons
of output last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global production of the metal, which is used in electric
cables and plumbing, also increased by just 0.5 percent in 2011,
the smallest gain in five years, the data show.  Mining companies haven’t kept pace with demand because
reserves are becoming harder to find and the quality of ore is
declining, meaning that less copper is extracted from each ton
of rock. BHP’s copper output last fiscal year fell to the lowest
level since at least 2004, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, while  Rio Tinto ’s 2011 copper production slumped to
the lowest in more than a decade.  “Someone somewhere is willing to put some money in”
Lumina’s Taca Taca development, Day of Adrian Day Asset said in
a telephone interview. “There’s only a limited number of mines.
You can’t pick up the deposit and move it somewhere else.”  Financial Incentive  Kelly Quirke, a spokeswoman for Melbourne-based BHP, and
Illtud Harri, a spokesman at London-based Rio Tinto, declined to
say whether they would be interested in buying Lumina.  With the price of copper more than doubling since the depth
of the financial crisis, Andrew Cosgrove, a metals and mining
analyst for Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey , says
that the biggest mining companies also have the financial
incentive to gain access to more copper deposits.  Copper futures for September delivery sold for $3.4025 a
pound in  New York  yesterday, exceeding the cost of extracting
the same amount of the metal by at least a dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  John Goldsmith , who helps manage about C$5.1 billion at
Montrusco Bolton Investments, is skeptical that Lumina will
ultimately be acquired. He says the cost of turning an
undeveloped deposit into a copper-producing mine in Argentina is
too great and that mining companies will be wary of operating in
a country where their assets can be nationalized.  ‘Sheer Size’  “I don’t think anybody is going to be knocking at the door
anytime soon,” Goldsmith said in a telephone interview from
Toronto. Anyone who wants to purchase Lumina is “going to have
to sink a boatload of money into this.”  Matt O’Keefe, a Toronto-based analyst at Mackie Research
Capital Corp., says that the value of the Taca Taca deposit may
make Lumina too cheap to pass up.  Lumina controls  20.5 billion pounds  of copper in the ground
at its Taca Taca mine, valuing the company at just 1.8 cents per
pound of its resources. The median for seven comparable mining
takeovers is 4 cents per pound, according to Raymond James.  “The thing that makes this very attractive is just the
sheer size and grade of it are both unusual and very
attractive,” said Mackie’s O’Keefe. With the political risk in
Argentina pushing down Lumina’s price, “any potential buyer
would rightly use this as a means to get a better deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 