-- UN's Syria Monitors May Face Pullout as Effort Stalls
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-19T00:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/un-s-syria-monitors-may-face-pullout-as-effort-stalls.html
Britain and  France  may call for
ending the United Nations observer mission in  Syria  if the
unarmed monitors continue to come under fire and can’t carry out
their mandate, UN diplomats said.  The countries are waiting for Major General Robert Mood,
the Norwegian officer commanding the UN Supervision Mission in
Syria, to brief the  Security Council  this afternoon before
deciding whether the mission has a future, according to two
diplomats from Security Council member states who asked not to
be named for reasons of diplomatic protocol.  If Mood and  Kofi Annan , the UN and Arab League envoy for
Syria, agree that the monitors can’t do their job, there will be
no reason to keep them in place, especially if they continue to
come under fire as happened several times last week, said one
diplomat.  The U.S. is also questioning whether to support extending
the mission’s mandate, which otherwise expires July 21, or even
shut it down sooner, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
last week. Russia has supported the operation even as it has
opposed stronger Security Council action, such as international
sanctions against the Syrian regime.  Mood suspended the mission’s activities June 16, saying
that increasing violence made it impossible for the monitors to
carry out their task of observing and trying to prevent attacks
on civilians. The UN has 291 unarmed military observers and 89
civilian monitors in Syria.  A return to “normal operations” remains the mission’s
objective, the general said in an e-mailed statement. The
operation, established to monitor a now-ignored cease-fire, is
an element in Annan’s six-point peace plan.  Practical Factors  Mood today probably will assess practical factors, a
judgment that could be overridden by a political assessment by
Annan that even a constrained presence helps avert worse
violence and maintains channels for dialogue with the Assad
regime, the diplomat said.  With forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad continuing
to fire tanks and artillery, and now bringing in helicopter
gunships, it’s almost impossible to see a political solution
emerging, said a second diplomat, raising the question of what
the UN observers can accomplish.  Russia  wants the observers to stay to give the Syrian
regime more time to defeat its opponents, the diplomat added.  The Local Coordination Committees, an activist group,
reported “fierce shelling” by regime forces yesterday in Homs.
At least 90 people were killed in clashes around the country,
the group said on its website.  British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said on June 16
that the Security Council will be “considering its options,
including the future of the UN Mission in Syria,” at today’s
briefing.  U.S. Timeline  The U.S. has a timeline to see if Annan can successfully
quell the violence and initiate a shift that removes Assad from
power, Clinton said last week. The “outer limit” is mid-July,
when the council considers extending the mandate, she said.  Without “discernible” progress, she said, “it will be
very difficult to extend a mission that is increasingly
dangerous for the observers on the ground.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Russian President  Vladimir Putin  called for an end to the violence in Syria after meeting
yesterday at the Group of 20 summit in  Mexico . They failed to
agree on any specific plan to quell the fighting.  It’s already too late for the UN plan, Senator  John McCain 
of  Arizona , the ranking Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee said yesterday in  Washington . “Kofi Annan’s plan,
which does not even call for Assad to go, has been a failure for
months.”  No-Fly Zone  Noting the suspension of the monitoring mission, McCain
said the Assad regime’s increasing reliance on helicopter
gunships is giving “new impetus” to calls for a no-fly zone.
“Russia is unlikely to ever support a policy of regime change
in Syria,” McCain said. “The administration’s approach is
being overtaken by events.”  The French and British -- and even the Americans -- may
only be posturing, said Aram Nerguizian, a visiting fellow at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington.  “Pulling out the monitors doesn’t change the reality that
at some point countries that don’t like each other will have to
talk about what happens next in Syria,” Nerguizian said.
“Right now the international actors here are going through the
motions: They have to articulate a rhetoric of pressure, but
they can’t take off the pressure for nothing.”  The problem with burying the Annan initiative is that there
is nothing to replace it with, said  Marina Ottaway , senior
associate in the Middle East program at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace in Washington. “Hillary Clinton would
tell you there is a ‘Plan B’ that includes sanctions. But
sanctions, as far as I know, have never brought down any regime
all by themselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  