-- UN’s Ban Presses Obama to Accept Iran Into Talks on Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-06-19T06:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/un-s-ban-presses-obama-to-accept-iran-into-talks-on-syria.html
United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon pressed the U.S. to accept  Iran  as part of a broader
coalition of nations discussing the violence in Syria and the
fate of President Bashar al-Assad.  “It is better to have broader participants,” Ban told
reporters late yesterday at the Group of 20 summit in Los Cabos,
 Mexico . Asked specifically about including Syrian ally Iran in
negotiations, he said, “yes.”  Ban’s comments came hours after U.S. President  Barack Obama 
said he and Russian President  Vladimir Putin  agreed to work with
“all interested parties” to bring an end to the Syrian
conflict. Obama didn’t address whether Iran should take part in
the talks, as Russia proposed last week.  The U.S. and Russian leaders, who met for the first time in
almost three years, have clashed on how to tackle the 15-month
Syrian crisis that has claimed more than 10,000 lives. While
Obama has called on Assad to step aside,  Russia  -- which sells
weapons to Syria -- has blocked UN Security Council resolutions
against his regime and accused the U.S. and its allies of trying
to duplicate the overthrow of Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi.  “We agreed on the need for a cessation of the violence,”
Obama told reporters after the session yesterday, which lasted
two hours.  “We have found many common points on this issue,” Putin
said, adding that the two sides will continue discussions.  In a joint written statement, the leaders of the world’s
two biggest nuclear powers expressed support for “moving
forward on political transition to a democratic, pluralistic
political system that would be implemented by the Syrians
themselves.”  Frustrating Impasse  The impasse has triggered frustration among the
international community, including Ban, who met with Obama
yesterday and will see Putin today. The UN suspended its
observer mission in  Syria  on June 16 because of escalating
violence and withdrew personnel to bases within the country.  “How many times do I have to condemn these atrocities?”
Ban said. “And how many different ways do I have to say and
condemn this is a totally unacceptable situation?”  U.S. Ambassador to Russia Mike McFaul, briefing reporters,
said the talk between the two leaders will give “new impetus”
to efforts to resolve differences over Syria and representatives
of the countries expect to continue discussions in the coming
days.  Putin and Obama also discussed the U.S. missile defense
program, another source of friction between the countries, and
the expansion of  commercial ties , which are “far below” where
they should be, Obama said. He called the meeting “candid and
thorough.”  Shared Approach  On  Iran’s nuclear program , where the two countries also
have differed, “we emphasized our shared approach” and
“agreed that there is still time and space for diplomacy,”
Obama said.  The revolt in Syria has intensified differences between
Putin and Obama on responding to the uprisings in the Arab world
that began more than a year ago.  Deputy National Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes , briefing
reporters on June 15, cast Russia’s actions in Syria as out of
step. The U.S. is “working to get the Russians to come in line
with, frankly, the broad international community,” he said.  The Russian leader is mistrustful of American motives, and
suspects the Obama administration is trying to topple regimes it
doesn’t like and replace them with U.S.-friendly governments,
according to Andrew Kuchins, a senior fellow of the Russia and
Eurasia Program at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington.  Putin’s Stance  Putin has likened North Atlantic Treaty Organization air
strikes against  Libya  to a “crusade” and disagreed with then-
President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s decision to abstain from a Security
Council resolution authorizing the no-fly zone over Libya. Along
with  China , Russia twice vetoed Western attempts in the UN
Security Council to put pressure on Assad.  Tensions flared last week when U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  accused Russia of stoking the violence in Syria
by delivering weapons and even attack helicopters to Assad’s
forces.  Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  retorted that, unlike the
U.S., the Russians “aren’t shipping to Syria or anywhere else
things that can be used against peaceful demonstrators.”  Russia also has been at loggerheads with the U.S. over
efforts to enlist Shiite Muslim Iran, as a neighbor with
influence over Assad’s minority Alawite regime, in efforts to
end the strife.  Clinton on June 12 said it would be a “grave error”
because Iran has trained and supported Syrian government forces
and Alawite militias blamed for civilian massacres.  Putin declined to attend a G-8 economic summit Obama hosted
last month at the Camp David presidential retreat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  New York  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  