-- Universal Gets EU Antitrust Complaint on EMI Bid Concerns
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-19T16:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/universal-gets-eu-antitrust-complaint-on-emi-bid-concerns.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group 
said it received an antitrust complaint from European Union
regulators citing concerns over its bid for EMI Group’s
recorded-music business.  The European Commission has “provided us today with a
statement of objections,” Adam White, a spokesman for Universal
in London, said in an e-mail. “We will continue to work closely
with the commission and look forward to securing regulatory
clearance.”  Regulators have a Sept. 6 deadline to rule on the bid by
Universal, which they have said would create a company “almost
twice the size of the next largest player” in Europe. Universal
may not be sufficiently constrained by smaller competitors,
customers’ buying power or illegal music downloads, the EU said
when it opened an in-depth probe in March.  A statement of objections sets out regulators’ case for
blocking a deal. Companies may seek an oral hearing and can
offer to sell assets to resolve any concerns. The EU has blocked
two deals in the last two years, including Deutsche Boerse AG’s
bid for NYSE Euronext.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, declined to comment on the statement of objections.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU competition commissioner, said
earlier this month companies in the  music industry  shouldn’t
“be in a position to shape the future landscape in the digital
music market to the detriment of users and artists.”  White said Universal is preparing a detailed response to
regulators’ concerns.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  agreed in November to sell EMI Group’s
recorded-music and publishing businesses in separate
transactions for a combined $4.1 billion. Universal will buy
EMI’s record labels, home to Katy Perry and Coldplay, for 1.2
billion pounds ($1.9 billion). A Sony Corp.-led group that
includes billionaire  David Geffen  will pay $2.2 billion for the
publishing unit, according to statements in November.  Sony won EU approval to buy EMI’s publishing unit in April
after agreeing to sell rights to hit songs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels via 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 