-- UPS Seeing Volume Boost From Refinancing Paper Chase: Freight
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-06-19T15:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/ups-seeing-volume-boost-from-refinancing-paper-chase-freight.html
A surge in mortgage refinancing to
the highest in three years is good for lenders, consumers and
the economy. It’s also good for  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ,
which is carrying refinancing documents throughout the country.  As more consumers refinance the mortgages on their homes,
expedited letter delivery is benefitting, said  Art Hatfield , an
analyst in Memphis,  Tennessee , with Raymond James & Associates.
That’s because the time-sensitive nature of loan approvals leads
many lenders to ship documents overnight, he said, calling the
business a “good-priced product” for UPS.  “People want to move those documents around quickly, so a
lot of next-day delivery occurs in the refinancing process,”
Hatfield said. This has a “positive impact” on UPS and should
also benefit  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , he said.  For Atlanta-based UPS, “an uptick in refinancing
applications” was a trend “taking letters from being negative
to positive” in the three months ended March 31, Chief
Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn said on an April 26 conference
call. This was “the first quarter in some time we’ve seen
that,” he said.  UPS, the world’s biggest package-delivery company, declined
to comment until after second-quarter earnings, which are
scheduled to be released July 26.  Memphis , Tennessee-based FedEx
today said  net income  for the quarter ending May 31 was $550
million, down 1.4 percent from a year earlier.  The average daily volume for UPS’s next-day air service,
which includes both letters and packages, rose 5 percent in the
quarter ended March 31 from a year earlier, the biggest increase
since 2006. Next-day shipments, which accounted for only 9.2
percent of total U.S. package volume, made up about 19 percent
of domestic package revenue, company data show.  Rising Volume  For FedEx, the average daily volume of U.S. overnight
envelopes fell 6.7 percent from a year earlier in the three
months ended May 31, today’s report showed. These shipments made
up about 23 percent of total U.S. domestic deliveries, with
revenue per package of $11.81, according to company data.  Hatfield maintains strong-buy  recommendations  on both UPS
and FedEx, primarily because of what he called an attractive
pricing environment for these companies as they continue to
expand globally.  Refinancing has risen back up to 2009 levels as  mortgage
rates  remain near record lows, said Michael Fratantoni, vice
president of research and economics for the Mortgage Bankers
Association. An index of refinance applications grew 19 percent
in the week ended June 8 from the prior period, according to
data from the Washington-based group.  More Applications  Favorable interest rates are “the dominant factor”
impacting the recent spurt of activity, Fratantoni said. The
average 30-year U.S. mortgage rate rose to 3.71 percent in the
week ended June 14, up from 3.67 percent the prior week, which
was the lowest since  Freddie Mac  began keeping records.  About 60 percent of this year’s refinance applications will
result in new loan originations, Fratantoni estimated. These
originations are forecast to total $894 billion this year, up
$24 billion from May’s forecast, based on data released last
week.  So long as rates remain low, refinancing probably will
remain robust and there’s “no question” UPS and FedEx will see
a boost as a result, said Frank Donnelly, president of the
 Mortgage Bankers Association  of Metropolitan  Washington .  The massive “paper chase” associated with each step of
the  process , from an application to closing, often requires
lenders to send as many as 30 pages of materials via expedited
delivery, he said. And last-minute changes to disclosures or
interest rates may necessitate even more shipments.  Original Documents  “The refinancing process is so paper-intensive,” said
Donnelly, who also is a lender and has used UPS and FedEx to
send information to his customers.  Even so, electronic delivery has become a more widely
accepted practice, which will cut down on the amount sent by
mail, Donnelly said. Still, rules about original documentation
vary by state and federal regulations require lenders to send
disclosures more frequently now, he added.  “Not everyone has e-mail and some people still want hard
copies of these documents,” Donnelly said.  Amid such low  interest rates  and with refinancing
 originations  projected to surpass those in 2011, more activity
is likely in the industry -- and some homeowners are even coming
back again, Fratantoni said.  “Anyone with good credit and equity in property has
refinanced more than once in the past three years,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  