-- Turkey Offers Incentives for Carmakers to Expand Production
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-06-19T11:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/turkey-will-lower-car-import-duties-for-capacity-rise-correct-.html
Turkey  will allow carmakers that add
at least 100,000 units annual capacity in Turkey to import
additional vehicles equaling 15 percent of that amount without
tariffs, Economy Minister Zafer Caglayan said.  Producers making new investments in engine production will
be able to import the equivalent of 30 percent of the new car
capacity to Turkey duty-free, Caglayan also said in a speech in
Istanbul today. He didn’t say how many engines would be required
for that tax break. The new import tax cut for cars only applies
to those in the low-end A, B and C segments, he said.  Turkey is introducing incentives for local providers of key
products and services ranging from chemicals and steelmaking to
tourism and education after a surge in imports widened the
current account gap to as much as 11 percent of gross domestic
product last year.  “This is an antidote against the current account
deficit,” Caglayan said.  Fiat SpA (F) ’s  Tofas Turk Otomobil Fabrikasi AS (TOASO) ,  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ,  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Renault SA (RNO)  make cars in Turkey, where
total vehicle production may fall to 1.1 million vehicles this
year from 1.19 million in 2011, according to the Istanbul-based
 Automotive Manufacturers Association of Turkey .  Stocks Gain  Tofas, a partnership between Fiat and  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) ,
gained 1.8 percent to 6.92 liras at 2:16 p.m. in Istanbul,
advancing for a third day to the highest level since May 23.
 Ford Otomotiv Sanayi AS (FROTO) , owned by  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Koc
Holding, rose 0.6 percent to 16.2 liras.  The government will also give a sales tax rebate to
construction companies spending more than 500 million liras
($280 million) on strategic projects, Caglayan said. A cabinet
decree on the package was published in the  Official Gazette 
today.  Certain investment in food, animal husbandry, greenhouse
farming, leather, education, healthcare, drug-making, energy
production excluding natural gas-fired  power plants , ports,
railways, sea transport and tourism are among those industries
that will also benefit from incentives, Caglayan said.
Incentives include a 50 percent cut in  corporation tax , interest
payment reductions and lower social security costs, he said.  The incentives will be larger in poorer regions of the
country, including the east and southeast, where the
government’s contribution may be as much as 60 percent of the
investment value in large-sized projects, Caglayan said.  Investors will have until end of 2013 to apply to the
government to benefit from the plan, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  