-- Make Voting Mandatory
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-06-19T22:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/voting-should-be-mandatory.html
The U.S. prides itself as the beacon
of democracy, but it’s very likely no U.S. president has ever
been elected by a majority of American adults.  It’s our own fault -- because voter participation rates are
 running below  60 percent, a candidate would have to win 85
percent or more of the vote to be elected by a majority.  Compulsory voting, as exists in Australia and more than two
dozen other countries, would fix that problem. As William Galston of the  Brookings Institution   argues , “Jury duty is
mandatory; why not voting?”  Mandating voting has a clear effect: It raises
participation rates. Before Australia  adopted  compulsory voting
in 1924, for example, it had turnout rates similar to those of
the U.S. After voting became mandatory,  participation 
immediately jumped from 59 percent in the election of 1922 to  91
percent  in the election of 1925.  The political scientists Lisa Hill and Jonathon Louth of
the University of Adelaide note that “turnout rates among the
voting age population in Australia have remained consistently
high and against the trend of steadily declining voting
participation in advanced democracies worldwide.”  Voting Paradox  For economists, the puzzle is not why voting participation
rates are so low in voluntary systems, but why they’re so high.
The so-called  paradox of voting , highlighted in a 1957 book by
the political scientist Anthony Downs, occurs because the
probability that any individual voter can alter the outcome of
an election is effectively zero. So if voting imposes any cost,
in terms of time or hassle, a perfectly rational person would
conclude it’s not worth doing. The problem is that if each
person were to reach such a rational conclusion no one would
vote, and the system would collapse.  Mandatory voting solves that collective action problem by
requiring people to vote and punishing nonvoters with a fine. In
 Australia , the  penalty  starts small and rises significantly for
those who repeatedly fail to vote.  Beyond simply raising participation, compulsory voting
could alter the role of money in elections. Turn-out-the-vote
efforts, often bankrolled by big-money groups, would become
largely irrelevant. Negative advertising could be less
effective, because a central aim of such ads is to discourage
participation in the opponent’s camp.  The other effects of compulsory voting are more difficult
to assess and tend to divide political scientists. Some
proponents, such as Galston at Brookings, argue mandating voting
could help reduce political polarization because everyone would
have to vote, and those who don’t vote today tend to be less
polarized than those who go to the polls (this would be a good
thing given the  extreme levels  of  polarization  we are now
 experiencing ). Alan Abramowitz presents  evidence  favoring this
in “The Disappearing Center”: Those most engaged with the
political process and most likely to vote are more polarized
than those disconnected from politics.  Interestingly, political science literature has
historically found more modest effects on election outcomes in
the U.S. from compulsory voting than one might think.  Recent
work  by John Sides of George  Washington  University and
colleagues is consistent with previous research by Raymond
Wolfinger in finding “little evidence that increased turnout
would systematically transform partisan competition or policy
outcomes.” This parrots the conventional wisdom among political
scientists.  On the other hand, Jan Leighley and Jonathan Nagler  argue 
that over the past several decades the differences between
voters and nonvoters have grown significantly larger.  Research 
by Andrew Fowler of Harvard shows compulsory voting in Australia
increased the parliament seat share of the  Labor Party  there by
7 percent to 9 percent, which is a big effect.  Unknown Effect  The split in views among political scientists is not
surprising given how hard it is to analyze how a change as large
as compulsory voting would affect overall voting patterns. The
truth is that we just don’t know how much of an impact it would
have.  One concern -- voiced primarily by Republicans -- is that
compulsory voting would raise participation rates among
Democrats, because minority and low-income voters are among
those least likely to go to the polls. Another, broader fear is
apparent from Australia’s experience: so-called  donkey votes  in
which people vote for candidates based on the order they appear
on the ballot or protest the whole process by checking “none of
the above.” The donkey votes, though, amount to well under 5
percent of the total. So the noise added to the voting process
from compulsory voting appears to be minimal.  Another hesitation is that compulsion could be unpopular,
given that some Americans may consider it a democratic right to
not have to vote. To make voting more attractive,  Thomas Mann  of
Brookings and Norman Ornstein of the  American Enterprise
Institute  have  proposed  pairing a compulsory vote with a lottery
in which voters can win money financed by the fines of
nonvoters.  Politicians don’t seem to believe the dominant political
science view suggesting mandatory voting would have little
effect on elections, perhaps with good reason given some
research suggesting a larger impact. Moving to compulsory voting
would probably require a constitutional change and almost
certainly would require the participation of both parties. It
could be instituted only when it would not be of obvious benefit
to one political party over another.  This brings us to the paradox of compulsory voting: It’s a
sensible idea that could be enacted only when it would have
almost no effect. In that case, some might wonder, why do it?
The answer is that increased participation would make our
democracy work better, in the sense of being more reflective of
the population at large. And it could allow the first president
in history to be elected by a majority of American adults.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Egypt ’s de facto  coup d’etat 
and on a capital gains-corporate income  tax deal ;  Margaret
Carlson  on Washington’s other  dysfunctional government ; Clive
Crook on why the  European Central Bank  must act;  Noah Feldman  on
whether Egypt will be the  next Algeria ; Carl Pope on the rise of
 renewable energy  in  emerging markets .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Deborah Solomon  at   dsolomon20@bloomberg.net . 