-- Walgreen to Buy 45% Stake in Boots for $6.7 Billion
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-06-19T20:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/walgreen-to-acquire-45-alliance-boots-stake-for-6-7-billion.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the biggest U.S.
drugstore chain, agreed to buy a 45 percent stake in  Alliance
Boots  GmbH for $6.7 billion in an attempt to create a global
chain of pharmacies.  Walgreen will pay $4 billion cash and the rest in stock for
its biggest-ever deal, with an option to gain full control in
about three years, the companies said today in a statement. The
stake is being acquired from a group led by KKR & Co. and
Alliance Boots Chairman Stefano Pessina, who purchased the
company for 12.1 billion pounds ($19 billion) five years ago.  The combination gives Walgreen and Alliance Boots, the
U.K.’s largest drugstore-chain company, more than 11,000 stores
in 12 countries and 370 distribution centers to pharmacies,
doctors and hospitals. The deal also may help Walgreen cope with
the loss of U.S. customers after its contract with employee-
benefits manager  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  ended last year.  “There is no question that this deal does diversify
Walgreen away from the  United States  and creates a separate
profit stream that could counter any added Express Scripts-
related hits,”  John Heinbockel , a Guggenheim Securities LLC
analyst in  New York , wrote today in a note to clients. He rates
Walgreen buy.  The loss of revenue from Express Scripts customers
contributed to an 11 percent decline in Walgreen’s fiscal third-
quarter profit, the retailer said today in a separate statement.  Walgreen sank 5.9 percent to $30.09 at the close in New
York. The Deerfield, Illinois-based company’s  shares  have
declined 9 percent this year.  Buyout Option  Walgreen will have an option to buy the remaining 55
percent of Alliance Boots, which is based in Zug,  Switzerland ,
and has an operational hub in  Nottingham ,  England . KKR and
Pessina will become shareholders in the combined business.
Pessina, an Italian billionaire, said on a conference call that
he will own an 8 percent stake in Walgreen and doesn’t want to
take money out.  The transaction “will change the dynamic of the
industry,” said Pessina, who will join Walgreen’s board along
with KKR’s Dominic Murphy upon the completion of the initial
investment in Alliance Boots.  Wasson said the deal is “a partnership, not a takeover,”
adding that talks between the companies have been taking place
for 18 months. Walgreen will assume Alliance Boots’s debt in the
second phase of the tie-up, he said.  Cost Reductions  The deal will lead to cost and revenue benefits across both
companies of $100 million to $150 million in the first year and
$1 billion by the end of 2016, according to the statement.  Walgreen, which was advised by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Lazard, forecast the transaction will add 23 cents to 27 cents a
share to diluted  earnings  per share in the first year after
completion of the initial investment, excluding one-time costs.
Alliance Boots was advised by  Centerview Partners .  Some investors are skeptical about the projections for
additional per-share earnings next year, said  Brian Sozzi , an
independent analyst in New York.  “The market doesn’t believe the projections,” Sozzi said
in a telephone interview. “There is big-time integration risk
here putting together a giant U.S. pharmaceutical business with
a giant U.K. pharmaceutical business.”  The U.S. drugstore owner has lined up $3.5 billion of
short-term debt financing from Goldman Sachs and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch to help fund the acquisition, according to a
statement from KKR. Walgreen plans to replace the bridge
facility with permanent financing at a later stage.  KKR Investment  KKR, which invested $2.45 billion in Alliance Boots for a
33 percent stake, will get $1.8 billion in cash and 7 million
Walgreen shares valued at about $200 million, in return for the
sale of a 15 percent stake. KKR had $62.3 billion in assets
under management as of March 31.  While KKR is getting most of its original investment back,
the rest of its return depends on whether Walgreen decides to
exercise its option. At the current share price, the return
would be 2.7 times KKR’s investment in pounds, and 2.2 times in
dollars, Murphy said in a telephone interview today.  KKR rose 6.8 percent to $12.48 in New York trading.  Walgreen’s third-quarter  net income  fell to $537 million,
or 62 cents a share, from $603 million, or 65 cents a year
earlier. Excluding some items, profit was 63 cents a share. The
average  estimate  of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 63
cents. Sales fell 3.4 percent to $17.8 billion, trailing
analysts’ average $17.9 billion estimate.  Sales at stores open at least a year dropped 6.6 percent
after the end of  Express Scripts  contract Dec. 31 led to fewer
visits by customers.  Express Scripts  In April, Express Scripts, based in  St. Louis , acquired
Medco Health Solutions Inc., a rival pharmacy-benefit manager
that also has a contract with Walgreen.  Wasson said today on a conference call that the Alliance
Boots transaction isn’t linked to concerns that Medco may cancel
its arrangement with Walgreen.  “We’ve said that we’ve had a contract in place for many,
many years,” Wasson said. “We’re willing to keep serving those
customers.”  Alliance Boots owns more than 3,200 stores globally. The
company last month reported a 12 percent increase in annual
profit, driven by its wholesale pharmaceuticals business.
Pessina said at the time that he was looking for a
“transformational” merger as soon as this year to help turn
Alliance Boots into a global wholesaler.  Emerging Markets  The deal also will help Walgreen expand into  emerging
markets , Wasson said.  “Walgreens is still a U.S. business so its desire to
achieve a more global footprint will be a game-changer,” said
 Bryan Roberts , director at Kantar Retail in  London . “This gets
them into Europe and  Asia .”  The stake purchase is Walgreen’s biggest deal, exceeding
its $1.08 billion acquisition of U.S. drugstore chain Duane
Reade Holdings Inc. from private-equity firm Oak Hill Capital
Partners LP in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
2008,  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  outbid Walgreen to buy another U.S.
chain, Longs Drug Stores Corp.  There have been more than 230 drugstore takeovers globally
in the past decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
median buyers paid almost 30 similar deals was 7.9 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Alliance Boots Loans  Alliance Boots loans jumped in London today as Walgreen’s
option to take full control boosted optimism that lenders will
be repaid at par before the final maturity of the loan. The
senior loans denominated in pounds were quoted at 96.5 pence on
the pound as of 11:30 a.m. in London, up from 92.5 pence
yesterday, according to Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.  Credit-default swaps on Alliance Boots dropped 183 basis
points to 237, the lowest since Feb. 2011, according to
Bloomberg data at 2:25 p.m. in London.  Walgreen had 8,210 locations at the end of fiscal year
2011. The chain, which also sells general merchandise, got 65
percent of its revenue that year from prescription drug sales.  The initial investment by Walgreen and its option to
purchase more of Alliance Boots doesn’t include the company’s
minority interest in  Galenica AG (GALN) , the world’s largest maker of
iron replacement drugs. That investment will be continue to be
owned by Alliance Boots and its existing shareholders, KKR said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  