-- Walgreen Said to Agree to Boots Deal on Lower U.K. Risk
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-06-20T20:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/walgreen-s-biggest-deal-increases-risk-amid-european-debt-crisis.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG)  agreed to acquire a
stake in Alliance Boots GmbH because its business is mostly in
the U.K., which it viewed as less risky than the rest of Europe,
according to a person familiar with the situation.  Walgreen executives considered whether it was the right
time to acquire Alliance Boots given Europe’s economic
challenges and potential shareholder concern, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the talks were private.  Walgreen, the biggest U.S. drugstore operator, said
yesterday it agreed to buy a 45 percent stake in Alliance Boots,
the U.K.’s largest drugstore-chain company. As its top
shareholder, Walgreen will control more than 11,000 stores in 12
countries and 370 distribution centers to pharmacies, doctors
and hospitals, with an option to buy all of Alliance Boots in
about three years.  “Walgreen is making an expensive acquisition of a company
that is highly exposed to the weak U.K. and European markets,
with greater uncertainty about how things develop in the next
few years or even months,” Meredith Adler, a New York-based
analyst at  Barclays Capital , wrote in a note to clients. She
rates the shares the equivalent of a sell.  Walgreen fell 2.9 percent to $29.21 at the close in New
York. The shares have slipped 12 percent this year.  Christopher Graja, an analyst at Argus Research Co. in New
York, downgraded Walgreen to hold from buy yesterday.  “We would prefer to see the company focus on the
challenges and opportunities in the U.S.,” he wrote in a note.  Deal Structure  The two companies began talks about 18 months ago,
initially discussing a joint venture, said the person. As the
talks evolved into a possible equity investment, there were
months of due diligence and analysis of potential cost savings,
the person said. They also had to work out details such as the
deal structure and the terms under which Walgreen could boost
its stake, the person said.  Walgreen Chief Executive Officer Gregory Wasson is looking
to goose growth, which has been slowing amid a spotty U.S.
recovery. Walgreen’s contract to sell prescriptions through
 Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  also ended Dec. 31, leading to lower same-
store sales as customers switched to  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) ,  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and other drugstore rivals.  Falling Profit  Third-quarter net income fell 11 percent to $537 million,
or 62 cents a share, from a year earlier, the Deerfield,
Illinois-based company reported yesterday. Sales at stores open
at least a year dropped 6.6 percent.  “There is no question this deal does diversify Walgreen
away from the  United States  and creates a separate profit stream
that could counter any added Express Scripts-related hits,”
 John Heinbockel , a Guggenheim Securities LLC analyst in New
York, wrote in a note to clients. He rates the shares buy.  Walgreen will pay $4 billion cash and the remainder in
stock for its biggest-ever deal, with an option to gain full
control in about three years, the companies said yesterday. The
stake is being acquired from a group led by  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and
Alliance Boots Chairman Stefano Pessina, who bought the company
in a 12.1 billion-pound ($19 billion) buyout five years ago.  KKR and Pessina will become shareholders in the combined
business. Pessina, an Italian billionaire, said on a conference
call yesterday that he’ll own an 8 percent stake in Walgreen and
doesn’t want to take money out. In the second phase of the tie-
up, Walgreen will assume the Alliance Boots debt. As of March 31
the U.K. company had about 7 billion pounds in debt, according
to a May 16 earnings statement.  Erase Hit  Walgreen projected the Alliance Boots transaction will
boost per-share profit by 23 cents to 27 cents this year. That
will essentially erase an earnings hit of 25 cents to 28 cents
on an annualized basis from the end of the Express Scripts
contract, according to Ann Hynes, an analyst at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc.  Walgreen estimated the tie-up with Alliance Boots, which is
based in Zug,  Switzerland , would generate savings of $100
million to $150 million in the first year because of increased
buying power for prescription and over-the-counter drugs as well
as general merchandise.  Both companies will benefit from sharing best practices in
store design, customer loyalty programs and selling online,
Wasson said. Full integration is planned over three years,
minimizing initial disruption of business, he said.  Integration Risks  Integration risks remain, according to  Brian Sozzi , an
independent analyst in New York.  “There’s a lot of risk to computers and other systems
that, if they go wrong, calls into question whether they can
meet their targets,” Sozzi said in an interview yesterday. He
doesn’t rate Walgreen shares.  Europe ’s financial crisis made Walgreen’s investment in
Alliance Boots “very surprising,” according to Heinbockel.  “We always thought that such expansion efforts would occur
further down the line, be relatively modest in scale, and be
initially centered on the faster-growing Latin American
markets,” Heinbockel said.  Several analysts questioned the timing.  “We think international expansion is a prudent strategy,”
Hynes wrote in a note yesterday. “But the timing is off given
the economic backdrop and debt crisis in Europe, where a
majority of revenue is generated.”  She rates Walgreen neutral,
the equivalent of a hold recommendation.  While “the stock may not go anywhere for a while,” the
tie-up will look “pretty darn smart” once Europe recovers from
its debt crisis, said Bill Smead, who oversees about $180
million, including 167,252 Walgreen shares, as chief investment
officer at Seattle-based Smead Capital Management Inc.  “In this era where everyone is afraid to take risks, this
may be the first step in establishing global drugstore chains,”
Smead said by telephone yesterday. “Maybe you wake up in 10
years and these guys own 30,000 drugstores around the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  