-- Washington’s Other Dysfunctional Government
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-06-19T22:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/washington-s-other-dysfunctional-government.html
(Corrects details of audit of Kwame Brown’s campaign in
fifth paragraph.)  “The city’s in serious trouble,”
D.C. Council member Marion Barry  said last week  at yet another
raucous  Washington  hearing. “We are the laughingstock of the
nation.”  He should know. In 1990, Barry was videotaped smoking  crack
cocaine  in a hotel room in an FBI sting that a female
acquaintance had helped to arrange, prompting his immortal
observation about how the woman -- he used a different five-
letter word -- had “set me up.” The tape was pre-YouTube but
went viral, making a joke of the national capital and helping to
secure the mayor’s reputation for garbled pronouncements.
“Except for the killings,” he  once said  about the city’s
murder rate, then the nation’s highest, “Washington has one of
the lowest crime rates in the country.”  Those were the days. Now the city’s government is the focus
of a federal corruption investigation, which has just snared two
council members, as well as numerous smaller fry, and is nipping
at the new mayor, Vincent Gray. It has gotten to the point where
one city council member held a going-off-to-prison  party  for
himself last week.  The Founders set up the nation’s capital as something like
the Vatican, with its own flag and officials -- but without
great art or wealth. Washington had hoped the election of
President  Barack Obama  would lead to more authority than home
rule had granted to the elected mayor and 13-member council in
1973. These latest scandals have effectively ruined any chance
of that.  Wrong Leather  The occasion that prompted Barry’s comment was the guilty
plea last week of Council Chairman Kwame Brown to felony bank
fraud charges for falsifying his income on loan applications for
a yacht. This is the same Brown who shortly after his 2010
election  requested  the city provide him with a 2011 Lincoln
Navigator that cost $1,963 a month to lease. (He sent the first
one back because it had a gray leather interior, not black as he
had requested.) An audit last year discovered that Brown had
more than $270,000 in unreported campaign contributions, and
paid $239,000 to a consulting firm operated by his brother.  At least Brown wasn’t stealing money from disadvantaged
children, as Harry Thomas was. Thomas, another council member,
 admitted in January to  taking public funds -- $353,500 -- meant
for at-risk children to enroll in sports programs. Thomas held a
“going away” party last week before reporting to federal
prison in  Alabama  to serve a 38-month sentence.  Left without a leader as Kwame Brown awaits sentencing, the
council nominated another Brown, Michael, to replace him.
(Michael is not related to Kwame but is the son of Ron Brown,
the former Commerce secretary killed in 1996 in a plane crash.)
It turns out, however, that  Michael Brown  is  not without
problems , including a failure to pay taxes and violations of
campaign-finance laws.  It’s hard to find a blameless official in Washington. This
brings us to yet another Brown, Sulaimon, and the parallel
federal investigation of Mayor Vincent Gray. Gray, who was
elected in 2010, is suspected of paying Sulaimon Brown, then a
minor mayoral candidate, to stay in the race so that he (Gray)
could take the high road and Brown the low one against then
incumbent Adrian Fenty. For Brown, the low road included
accusing Fenty of  not respecting  his parents and sitting in a
chair meant for Fenty until removed at a debate.  As a candidate Sulaimon Brown came across as unqualified
for nearly any job except hurling accusations at Fenty. Yet he
ended up in a $110,000-a-year position in Gray’s administration,
which Brown said the mayor-to-be promised him in exchange for
his help.  Job Interview  Gray admits that he promised Brown a job interview, but not
a job. The Washington Post  published text messages  from Gray to
Brown that have the mayor saying, “We did not renege on any
commitments to you. You know and we know what agreements had
been reached. And none has been breached.” After details of
this story became public, Brown was eventually fired from his
job.  So far two aides of Gray, including his close friend and
assistant campaign treasurer Thomas Gore, have pleaded guilty in
the investigation. Gore  admitted  in federal court in May that he
gave unreported cash contributions to Brown for his help and
lied about it. As U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen  said : “In 2010,
the voters of the  District of Columbia  were deceived. Envelopes
stuffed with fraudulent money orders prevented the public from
knowing that one mayoral campaign was secretly financing the
campaign of an opposing candidate.”  If Barry’s experience is any guide, Gray needn’t worry too
much about a federal investigation. Corruption, drug possession
and use, unreported campaign contributions -- none of it
necessarily ends a career in Washington. Through his arrest,
trial and sentencing, Barry hung on as mayor until he left in
1991 for federal prison. He returned to win a seat on the city
council in 1992 and ultimately returned to the mayor’s office in
1995, earning him the title Mayor for Life.  Washington’s tolerance for official crime doesn’t help its
efforts to gain greater budget autonomy, win more voting power
for the district’s delegate, or come closer to statehood. It
does, however, help contribute to the city’s reputation as a
laughingstock. Between the local and federal governments, it is
a reputation that seems secure.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Egypt ’s de facto  coup d’etat 
and on a capital gains-corporate income  tax deal ; Clive Crook on
why the  European Central Bank  must act;  Noah Feldman  on whether
Egypt will be the  next Algeria ;  Peter Orszag  on  mandatory voting 
in the U.S.; Carl Pope on the rise of  renewable energy  in
 emerging markets .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 