-- Wikileaks Founder Assange Seeks Asylum at Ecuador’s U.K. Embassy
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-06-20T00:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/wikileaks-assange-seeks-asylum-in-ecuador-embassy-in-london.html
Julian Assange, the founder of anti-
secrecy group Wikileaks, sought asylum at  Ecuador ’s Embassy in
 London  after exhausting his options through British courts to
avert extradition to  Sweden .  Ecuador is studying the request and is in contact with the
U.K. government, Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino told reporters
in  Quito  yesterday. Assange, accused of rape by two Swedish
women, has fought extradition to Sweden for 18 months.  Assange would have to leave the embassy if his asylum
request is rejected, Douglas McNabb, senior principal at
international criminal law firm McNabb Associates said by
telephone from  Washington . If Ecuador accepts the request, it
probably would be able to escort him to the airport for a flight
to Quito, he said.  “It’s a great move from a legal perspective,” said
McNabb, who isn’t representing Assange or the governments in the
case. “For him to be on the embassy grounds now, and for the
Foreign Ministry to say he’s applied and we’re considering it,
there must be something there that leads Assange to believe that
it will be granted.”  In a letter to Ecuador’s government, Assange said his home
country of  Australia  has “effectively abandoned” him and is
“ignoring the obligation to protect its citizen, who is
persecuted politically.” Extracts of the letter were included
in a statement given out by Patino.  ‘Every Step’  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told a briefing in
Los Cabos,  Mexico , where’s attending the Group of 20 summit,
that Assange has gotten consular assistance “every step of the
way.”  “Our consular officials will be in contact with him and
also with Ecuador in London but his decisions in relation to
this matter are his to make,” Gillard said.  Assange says Sweden fabricated the arrest warrant to help
the U.S. punish him for publishing thousands of secret Pentagon
and State Department documents on the Wikileaks website.  Ecuador’s President  Rafael Correa , an ally of Venezuelan
leader  Hugo Chavez , is a critic of  U.S. foreign policy .
Ecuador’s Foreign Ministry offered Assange residency following
the 2010 publication of the U.S. government cables, before
rescinding the invitation.  In April, Assange and Correa discussed their shared
criticism of the press when Assange interviewed the president on
his television show “The World Tomorrow with Julian Assange.”
Correa, who regularly spars with journalists over the coverage,
has led a crackdown on the nation’s press over what he calls
bias in the media.  Trade Benefits  Ecuador is seeking the renewal of U.S. trade benefits
scheduled to expire next year, and may refuse to grant Assange
asylum to avoid damaging its commercial relationship with the
world’s largest economy, Risa Grais-Targow, an analyst at
political risk research company Eurasia Group, said yesterday.  “It would depend on what they gauge the U.S. response will
be and whether it will actually have repercussions,” Grais-
Targow said by telephone from Washington. “Ecuador needs the
U.S. a lot more than the U.S. needs Ecuador.”  Assange lost his bid this month to have the U.K.’s top
court reconsider a decision allowing him to be extradited to
Sweden. The court rejected his argument that the Swedish
prosecutor who investigated the sex-assault claims wasn’t
authorized to issue a European arrest warrant.  Assange’s lawyer Dinah Rose wasn’t available to comment
when her office was contacted by Bloomberg News. The office of
Gareth Peirce, another lawyer for Assange, declined to comment.  Assange, arrested in London in December 2010, may still
appeal to the  European Court  of  Human Rights . The U.K. Supreme
Court stayed extradition proceedings until the end of June to
allow him to seek a final appeal at the Strasbourg, France-based
tribunal.  The U.K. Home Office declined to comment, while the Foreign
Office didn’t respond to a telephone call placed after business
hours. The allegations against Assange became public around the
same time he posted the leaked cables on the Internet, which
raised questions about the Obama administration’s handling of
classified information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  