-- Worst Performing Civil Servants May Be Fired in U.K. Shakeup
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-06-19T16:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/worst-performing-civil-servants-may-be-fired-in-u-k-shakeup.html
The worst-performing 10th of British
civil servants risk being fired under plans outlined by Cabinet
Office Minister Francis Maude.  Performance reviews will see the top 25 percent and the
bottom 10 percent of senior officials identified, and those at
the bottom will be axed unless they show “real improvement,”
according to the plans published in  London  today. A similar
appraisal system is already being introduced for grades below
senior civil servants.  “A frequent complaint of civil servants themselves
concerns performance management,” Maude said a statement to
Parliament today. “They feel that exceptional performance is
too often ignored and poor performance is not rigorously
addressed.”  The British Civil Service stays in place whoever wins
elections, and has been satirized for obstructing politicians by
comedy series such as “Yes, Minister.” Maude, who is in charge
of overseeing the way government works, said he wanted it to be
less hierarchical.  “To improve decision making we need better management
information and greater accountability,” Maude said. “And we
are responding to the concerns of civil servants by transforming
performance management and career development in what will be a
more corporate civil service.”  The planned shakeup comes as the civil service undergoes
cuts that will see its workforce reduced to 380,000 by 2015 from
about 500,000, part of Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s efforts to tackle Britain’s budget deficit.  Jon Trickett, the opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker who
shadows Maude in Parliament, asked whether the government also
planned to “name and shame the poorest ministers.”  “It doesn’t need to because the court of public opinion
has already passed its verdict,” he said. “And does he believe
the chancellor of the exchequer should be placed in special
measures” given that the economy has slipped back into
recession, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  