-- Woulfe, Completing Buffett Deal, to Start Tungsten Mine in July
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-06-19T09:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/woulfe-completing-buffett-deal-to-start-tungsten-mine-in-july.html
Woulfe Mining Corp. (WOF) , preparing to
close an investment agreement with a unit of  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , will start up a tungsten mine next
month that it projects will become the biggest in the world.  Woulfe will raise $20 million in convertible notes in June
to begin digging rock ready to be processed at the South Korean
Sangdong mine, Chief Executive Officer Brian Wesson said in an
interview in  London . The company is waiting for Berkshire
Hathaway’s IMC International Metalworking Companies BV unit to
commit to $70 million of investment in the project.  “It took us six months to negotiate,” Wesson said. “They
are a huge company, they don’t do things for the hell of it.”  Woulfe, based in  Vancouver , is in talks with South Korean
banks over $120 million in funds for its part of the investment,
Wesson said. “We have final term sheets with some big banks in
 Korea ,” he said. “They are moving into final due diligence.”  Tungsten prices have risen as China imposed export curbs on
raw materials including the rare earth, causing world supplies
to plummet and threatening  strategic  stockpiles. China is the
largest supplier of 28 of the 52 elements on the Geological
Survey’s risk list. Tungsten was also one of the metals cited
when U.S. President  Barack Obama  filed a complaint to the  World
Trade Organization  on March 13 against the Chinese restrictions.  IMC, 80 percent-controlled by Berkshire Hathaway, signed an
agreement with Woulfe to invest $35 million to develop the $115
million mine and the same to build a refinery, Wesson said. It
will decide on closing the deal by the end of the month -- after
reviewing a feasibility study Woulfe prepared -- in exchange for
a quarter stake in the mine and 55 percent of the refinery.  Bringing Technology  “They will build the refiner,” Wesson said. “They’ll
design it, they’ll build it and they’ll ensure quality. They
came with technology, with size and with market and branding.”  Woulfe plans to ship 400,000 metric ton units of tungsten,
equivalent to 4,000 tons of the metal, from the mine, which
closed in 1992 on a flood of cheap Chinese concentrate, he said.
The company will begin output of the metal in August 2013.  China , source of about 60 percent of the world’s tungsten,
has pushed prices higher by imposing the limits on exports of
concentrate, Wesson said. The price of ammonium paratungstate,
the traded form of the metal, rose 32 percent in 2011 to more
than $440 a ton unit, according to European price data from
Metal Bulletin. The material traded at less than $65 in 2003.  IMC doesn’t list a phone number or e-mail address for the
parent company on its website. Subsidiary companies listed on
the site were unable to provide contact details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  