-- Typhoon Guchol Lashes Japan With Rain on Path to Osaka
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2012-06-19T23:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/typhoon-guchol-lashes-japan-with-rain-on-path-to-osaka-1-.html
(Corrects name of town to Shionomisaki in second
paragraph. This story was first published on June 19.)  Typhoon Guchol lashed southwestern
 Japan  with strong winds and heavy rain as it moved toward the
center of the country, forcing airlines and train operators to
cancel services amid warnings of flooding and landslides.  Guchol was about 30 kilometers (19 miles) west-southwest of
Shionomisaki, Wakayama prefecture at 5:40 p.m. local time,
according to the  Japan Meteorological Agency . Sustained winds
were 130 kilometers per hour (81 miles per hour), making it a
Category 1 storm, the weakest on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson 
Hurricane Wind Scale.  The storm is moving at 65 kilometers per hour and is
forecast to pass over the western Kansai region that includes
 Osaka  and Kyoto this evening before weakening into a tropical
storm as it crosses Japan’s main island of Honshu. The latest
track shows the storm will pass over the capital of Tokyo.  Japan Airlines Co. canceled 116 domestic flights and three
international flights due to the typhoon as of 2 p.m., the
carrier  said  on its website.  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  said it
canceled 165 domestic flights affecting about 12,200 people,
while Skymark Airlines Inc., Japan’s biggest discount carrier,
said it canceled flights to and from Okinawa.  West Japan Railway Co., known as JR West, said some train
services are canceled, including on lines from Okayama, Kyoto
and Osaka. Shinkansen, or bullet train, services linking Osaka
and Fukuoka on the island of Kyushu were unaffected as of 2:50
p.m. local time, JR West said on its website.  Landslides, Flooding  Japan issued warnings for landslides in areas including
Shikoku, where as much as 50 centimeters (20 inches) of rain may
fall. High waves, heavy rain and strong winds are expected along
the south coast of Honshu as far east as Nagoya and the Izu
peninsula, southwest of  Tokyo . As much as 8 centimeters of rain
per hour are falling in parts of the country as Guchol
approaches, the  meteorological agency  said.  An evacuation advisory was issued for more than 10,000
residents in the northeastern city of Ishinomaki,  Miyagi
prefecture , public broadcaster NHK said. It was issued hours
ahead of the expected approach of the typhoon to avoid damage
from heavy rains and high tides, NHK said.  Cosmo Oil Co. halted barge shipments at its Sakaide
refinery on Shikoku because of the typhoon, spokesman Katsuhisa Maeda said by telephone. JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. halted
barge shipments at its Mizushima refinery, also in western
Japan, a company official said today by telephone from Tokyo.  Alert Lowered  The U.S. military’s Kadena Air Base on Okinawa was placed
under Typhoon Condition-1 alert yesterday, meaning winds of 93
kilometers per hour or greater were expected within 12 hours,
according to the base’s  website . The alert was lowered to
condition-4 as the storm moved away from the island.  Nansei Sekiyu K.K., Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s Japanese unit,
halted berthing operations at its Nishihara refinery on Okinawa
as typhoon Guchol approached.  Japan is regularly hit by typhoons during the summer
months. Typhoon Talas dumped as much as 1.8 meters of rain in
central Japan last year, while Typhoon Tokage left 95 people
dead in 2004.  Guchol is the name for a spice in Micronesia, according to
the  Hong Kong  Observatory, which  lists  names assigned to storms
in the northwest Pacific.  A tropical depression also formed southwest of Hong Kong,
the U.S. Navy’s  Joint Typhoon Warning Center   said  on its
website. It is expected to move northeast over  Taiwan  in the
next few days and isn’t forecast to develop into a typhoon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  