-- Hyundai-Kia Looks to Become More European to Beat Fiat
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-06-19T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/hyundai-kia-looks-to-become-more-european-to-beat-fiat.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and sister brand
Kia, already boosting sales in Europe’s contracting auto market,
are extending their challenge to  Fiat SpA (F)  and  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  by enlisting soccer stars to steal customers.  The Korean carmaker is attracting Europeans by stepping up
sponsorship of their favorite pastime, hiring soccer heroes like
Germany’s  Lukas Podolski  and France’s Karim Benzema to promote
Hyundai as part of a marketing blitz focused around the European
championship, the region’s biggest tournament.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) 
revamped the Cee’d compact, giving it sportier European styling
to challenge  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Golf.  “One of the issues we face as a brand in Europe is that
we’re considered Asian and people don’t feel emotionally
attached,” Mark Hall, head of marketing for Hyundai in  Europe ,
said in an interview. “Anything that connects with the region’s
passions helps close that gap.”  Hyundai and Kia are intensifying their targeting of
European consumers to extend their expansion, which has been
based on a mix of low prices, long warranties and inexpensive
manufacturing. That combination has made the Korean manufacturer
the only volume carmaker to grow in the region this year, at the
expense of local brands, according to data from auto industry
lobby ACEA.  The Seoul-based group’s sales rose 16 percent through May,
compared with a 17 percent drop by Italy’s Fiat. Deliveries for
French manufacturers Peugeot and Renault slumped 15 percent and
19 percent, respectively.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s European sales,
including the unprofitable Opel brand, declined 11 percent,
while  Ford Motor Co. (F)  fell 8.2 percent. Sales at Volkswagen, the
region’s biggest carmaker, slipped 1.9 percent.  Lower Costs  “They’re benefiting from lower costs, and their cars have
clearly improved in quality and technology,” said  Tim Schuldt ,
a Frankfurt-based analyst at Equinet. “The French, Opel and
Ford are challenged by them the most. Now Kia and Hyundai must
manage their growth, which has been a problem for many companies
that expand fast.”  Hyundai plans to increase European sales by about 25
percent to 500,000 cars by 2013, boosted by the ix35 crossover
and i30 hatchback. To underpin its goal of lifting its European
market share to 5 percent from a target of 3.5 percent this
year, the brand will double capacity at a factory in  Turkey  to
200,000 vehicles, investing 475 million euros ($598 million) to
add the i10 subcompact there by the end of next year.  Kia intends to lift its share of the European market to 3
percent next year from 2.5 percent now. The carmaker added a
third shift and about 1,000 workers in the first quarter to its
plant in  Slovakia .  The expansion contrasts with GM’s plans to close an Opel
factory in  Germany  after Fiat shut an Italian plant at the end
of last year. Overcapacity in Europe is projected to more than
double to about 2 million vehicles in 2012, with demand forecast
to drop for the fifth consecutive year.  European Design  Kia is basing much of its growth on the revamped Cee’d,
which is narrower, lower and 5 centimeters (2 inches) longer
than its predecessor, to lure customers away from models like
the Opel Astra, Renault Megane and Peugeot 308, according to
Paul Philpott, Kia Europe’s chief operating officer. The model
starts at 13,990 euros, 18 percent less than the VW Golf.  “It’s a car designed for Europe, built for Europe, by
Europeans,” Philpott said in an interview. “It’s got a very
European feel to it.”  Early signs have been promising. When the Svenska Bil car
dealership in  Stockholm  presented the model a month ago,
customers were lining up for a test drive.  “Kia is where the Japanese were in the 1990s,” said Hakan Pohl, head of the dealership that sells Citroen, Mitsubishi,
Nissan, Opel and Chevrolet vehicles. “They have a successful
road ahead of them.”  Hyundai is looking for broad exposure with the European
soccer championship, which ends with the final in Kiev on July
1. In addition to television and stadium ads, activities at the
tournament, which was  viewed  by more than 4.8 billion people
when it was last played in 2008, include public viewing venues
in Paris, Madrid, Moscow and  Prague .  Adding Credibility  In Berlin, a blue i30 compact and green Veloster sports car
flank a giant screen in front of  Brandenburg Gate . Since the
tournament began June 8, nearly 800,000 people had visited the
Hyundai-sponsored fan park as of June 17, when Podolski helped
Germany advance to the quarterfinals by scoring a goal against
 Denmark .  The German forward, who appears in ads for the brand and
was provided with an ix35 to drive, is among five players,
including Spanish goalkeeper Iker Casillas, enlisted to promote
the Korean carmaker during the tournament. Hyundai hopes the
connection with players leads to a favorable association with
fans and car buyers in Europe and elsewhere.  “Hyundai recognizes that they have to be strong in
Europe,” said marketing chief Hall. “Success in Europe adds a
huge dose of credibility to other markets around the world.”  Local Loyalties  Not everything has worked out. Two of Hyundai’s players --
England’s  Daniel Sturridge  and  Italy ’s Giuseppe Rossi -- aren’t
on their country’s team for the tournament. And the Korean
manufacturer still has local loyalties to overcome.  At Stockholm’s Svenska Bil dealership, Sarah Pedersen and
her boyfriend Per Lowegren, owners of a Volvo V70 wagon, were
checking out the new Kia Cee’d as part of their search for a
small car. Ultimately, they opted for a used Volvo C30.  “The new, face-lifted Cee’d is beautiful, but in the end
we felt loyal to Volvo,” said Pedersen, 20, who works in a
paint store. “We know what we get.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  