-- ZTE to Add Workers on Plans to Double Asia Pacific Sales
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   E e   C h i e n   C h u a
-- 2012-06-19T10:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-19/zte-to-add-workers-as-it-doubles-asia-pacific-sales-correct-.html
ZTE Corp. (000063) , China’s second-biggest
maker of telecommunications equipment, will more than double 
its Asia Pacific sales to $4 billion from about $1.8 billion 
by 2015.  ZTE (763) , based in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen,
expects to also boost its workforce in the region by 30 percent
over the next three years, Zheng Bang, ZTE’s Asia Pacific
president, said in an interview in Singapore in today.  “The company will work with operators to achieve this
target,” Zheng said. “We will also make use of the advantage
we have in new technology to boost our sales.”  ZTE became the world’s fourth-largest mobile-device seller
in the fourth quarter, behind Nokia Oyj, Samsung Electronics Co.
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. ZTE’s
smartphone sales will more than double this year to between 40
million and 50 million units as it gains share in Europe,  North
America , Brazil and Japan, Executive Director He Shiyou said at
the company’s annual analyst day on April 23.  ZTE shares dropped 12 percent in Shenzhen trading this
year, compared with the 4.6 percent in the benchmark  Shanghai
Composite Index. (SHCOMP)   In the Asia Pacific region, Zheng said he expects ZTE’s
market share to double to 10 percent in three years.  ZTE also said today it plans to increase investment in the
U.S. by 10 percent a year, betting on growth in the country’s
smartphone market. ZTE supply-chain partnerships in the U.S.
total more than $13.7 billion, it said in the statement
distributed by Businesswire.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Ee Chien Chua in Singapore at 
 echua27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  