-- A Little Inflation Is Just What Europe Needs
-- B y   M e l v y n   K r a u s s
-- 2013-07-28T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/a-little-inflation-is-just-what-europe-needs.html
The  European Central Bank  has faced
criticism lately for failing to give a clearer blueprint of
future monetary policy in its new “forward guidance.” The
critics are missing the point.  In a statement this month, the bank’s governing council
promised to keep  interest rates  at current or lower levels for
“an extended period of time.” That sounds vague, if you are
looking for details on policy-making plans. Yet the ECB was
doing something quite different: It was telling the world that
it won’t mindlessly follow the U.S.  Federal Reserve  if the Fed
removes monetary accommodation.  This was, in effect, a European declaration of monetary
policy independence, and the governing council’s 23 members were
unanimous in delivering it. The ECB, however, needs to do more
and act to raise the euro area’s inflation rate to meet the
bank’s  target .  Europe doesn’t appear to have an inflation problem, but it
does: The rate at which prices are increasing in the 17
economies of the euro area is too low.  Core inflation  excluding
energy, food, tobacco and alcohol, has been stuck at 1.2 percent
for months, and a recent uptick in the headline rate the ECB
uses for targeting should fool no one. These increases in the
Harmonized Index of Consumer  Prices  were almost entirely due to
rising energy prices. Inflation will probably remain well below
the bank’s target rate of just less than 2 percent for some time
to come, on current policies.  Perverse Transfers  This is damaging, because below-target inflation causes
perverse income transfers from the periphery of the euro area to
its core. The currency zone’s rate of inflation fell by almost a
third -- from 2.4 percent in June 2012 to 1.6 percent in June
2013 -- helping creditors such as  Germany  at the expense of
debtors such as Italy and  Spain . This is because the lower the
rate of euro-area inflation, the higher the real burden of
interest payments that debtor countries have to pay. By the same
token, the real benefit to creditor countries rises.  Even Germans suffer from an unduly low inflation rate,
because it makes it less likely German loans to the troubled
periphery economies will ever be paid back, without further aid.
The left hand takes, and the right hand is pressed to give it
back. In the meantime, this process fosters further mutual
resentment and suspicion -- the last thing that  Europe  needs at
the moment.  Moreover, a too-low inflation rate raises the real cost of
capital to business, hindering investment and economic growth
throughout the region. Germans must understand that inflation
can be too low and that this comes at a cost to them. There are
no winners here.  The ECB shouldn’t acquiesce in subtarget inflation. The
bank has a mandate, and its credibility depends on adhering to
it. It isn’t enough for Europe’s central bank to promise to keep
its foot on the monetary accelerator for an extended period of
time. The ECB must press down harder and pick up speed so that
inflation rises -- not past the target, of course, but above
where it is now.  Some on the ECB’s governing body worry about a slippery
slope. They think that once the bank starts boosting inflation,
it won’t be able to stop, because they see inflation as a drug -
- the more you take, the harder it is kick the habit. This is
tantamount to declaring that the euro area’s central bank lacks
the means to fulfill its  price stability  mandate and so
shouldn’t try. It simply isn’t the case.  Wrong Message  Recently, the influential ECB executive board member Joerg Asmussen was quoted as saying, “while monetary policy would
remain expansive as long as necessary, one can assume as soon as
we see a sign of inflation, we will act against it.” This is
the wrong message. How is Europe to escape its low inflation
problem if the ECB seeks to nip in the bud any new developments
that might increase the inflation rate? It is wrong -- and
dangerous -- to encourage creditor countries such as Germany to
think that the lower the inflation rate, the better it is for
them.  Members of the ECB’s governing body may well be divided
over whether to adopt even further monetary accommodation to
boost current inflation to target levels. My response is, so
what? Unanimity doesn’t guarantee good policy. The ECB scored
its greatest triumph -- the Outright Monetary Transactions bond
purchase program that cut borrowing costs for troubled euro-area
economies last year -- despite fierce opposition from the German
Bundesbank.  An overemphasis on unity can give a determined few
effective veto power over what the majority wants. Just think,
if ECB President  Mario Draghi  had insisted on unity before
introducing the bond purchase program last year, there might not
be a euro today and Europe’s economy would be in significantly
worse shape than it is.  The first thing the ECB should do to fight anemic inflation
is cut the bank’s main policy interest rate by 25 basis points,
and perhaps go to negative deposit rates. At July’s meeting, the
governing council said with one voice that further interest-rate
cuts would be acceptable, if the economic data warrants them. An
inflation rate stuck well below target is exactly the kind of
data that makes the case for a further rate cut compelling.  (Melvyn Krauss is an emeritus economics professor at  New
York  University and a senior fellow at the  Hoover Institution  at
 Stanford University .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Melvyn Krauss at  melvynbkrauss@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 