-- Alwaleed Warns Saudi Oil Minister of Waning Need for Oil
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-07-28T17:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/alwaleed-warns-saudi-oil-minister-of-waning-need-for-oil.html
Saudi  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal  told
Oil Minister  Ali Al-Naimi  in an open letter that the kingdom
won’t be able to raise production capacity to 15 million barrels
of crude a day as planned, and that he disagrees with him over
the impact of U.S. shale gas output.  The prince published the letter today on Twitter, saying
there’s a “clear and increasing decline” in demand for crude
from members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, particularly Saudi Arabia. The kingdom is now pumping
at less than its production capacity as consumers limit oil
imports, Alwaleed said.  “We disagree with your excellency on what you said and we
see that raising North American shale gas production is an
inevitable threat,” the billionaire prince, founder of  Kingdom
Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , said in the letter.  Al-Naimi said in Vienna on May 31 that he isn’t concerned
about the increasing production of oil from shale formations in
the U.S., nor does it represent the first time the OPEC has
faced a surge in output from outside the group.  Alwaleed also said that Saudi Arabia’s reliance on oil to
fund 92 percent of this year’s fiscal budget “is contradicting
many of the state’s plans to diversify its income sources.”  “The world’s and the West’s dependence on oil is in
continuous decline and this ‘reality’ is known by everyone,” he
said in the letter. The prince urged the monarch,  King Abdullah ,
and the government to reduce Saudi dependence on oil and
increase the use of renewable energy sources to support local
consumption.  Saudi Arabia  intends to maintain its crude production
capacity at 12.5 million barrels a day, and sees no need to
build capacity beyond that, al-Naimi said in a speech on April
30 in  Washington . Prince Turki Al Faisal, a former head of
intelligence, said in an April 25 speech at  Harvard University 
that the kingdom plans to raise capacity to 15 million barrels a
day by 2020, allowing it to export as much as 10 million
barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  