-- Hamilton Wins Hungarian Grand Prix, His First Mercedes Victory
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-07-28T22:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/hamilton-wins-hungarian-grand-prix-his-first-mercedes-victory.html
Lewis Hamilton  won the Hungarian
Grand Prix for the fourth time to clinch his first victory since
joining the Mercedes Formula One team this season.  Kimi Raikkonen  of Lotus was second yesterday, 10.9 seconds
back, and Sebastian Vettel of  Red Bull  came third in the 70-lap
race at the Hungaroring near Budapest. Vettel extended his lead
in the drivers’ standings to 38 points as he seeks a fourth
straight title.  It was Hamilton’s 22nd career win and the 28-year-old
Briton’s first since the U.S. Grand Prix in Austin in November.  “It’s an incredible feeling, my team did an incredible
job,” Hamilton, who joined Mercedes from McLaren, said at the
post-race ceremony. “We studied things a lot last night and
were hoping the tires would last. We had no idea it would go
that well. I was hungry for it today, I was going all out.
Usually I get stuck in traffic, but today I was going for every
move I could.”  Hamilton controlled the race after starting on pole for the
third straight time. His teammate,  Nico Rosberg  from  Germany ,
started fourth on the grid, dropped down the field after running
wide on the first lap as he made contact with  Felipe Massa ’s
Ferrari and exited the race near the end with a blown engine.  Mercedes managed its tires well after Hamilton’s pre-race
concern that they’d degrade too fast amid track temperatures of
around 50 degrees Celsius (122 Fahrenheit). Pirelli & C. SpA
supplied redesigned tires for Budapest and there was no repeat
of the blowouts that marred last month’s British Grand Prix.  Regained Lead  Hamilton pitted after nine laps, then regained the lead and
built a 13-second advantage after a round of pit stops, followed
by Vettel,  Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari, Red Bull’s Mark Webber
and Raikkonen.  Hamilton went into the pits again on lap 32, dropping back
to fourth behind Vettel, Alonso and Webber, then moved up to
third by passing Webber and took the lead again as the cars
ahead of him changed tires.  Lotus’s  Romain Grosjean , who was pushing for a podium spot,
knocked into Jenson Button’s McLaren and incurred a drive-through penalty for going off the track as he overtook Massa.
Subsequently he was given a 20-second penalty for the Button
incident although it didn’t affect his final placing of sixth.  Vettel, seeking a fifth win this season, had a frustrating
race after starting second on the grid. His car sustained damage
to a front wing and he was trapped for some laps behind Button
after the first pit stop.  Press Hard  Vettel continued to press hard after he and Hamilton made
their last pit stops in the closing laps, but on a circuit where
it’s difficult to overtake Raikkonen held off his late surge to
cling on to second position. Vettel complained at how the Finn
blocked his overtaking maneuvers.  “I tried to hang on in there and tried to fight back with
Kimi,” Vettel said. “I could not get him on the straight. I
told Kimi I was not happy, but he was laughing. That’s racing.”  Hamilton’s victory gave new impetus to his quest for a
second drivers’ title and brought him level with  Michael Schumacher  for the most Hungarian Grand Prix wins.  “This is probably one of the most important wins of my
Grand Prix career,” Hamilton said. “To change teams and to win
here for Mercedes-Benz, this is a real privilege for me and I
hope there are many more to come.”  Webber was fourth yesterday, ahead of Alonso, Grosjean and
Button.  It was a third win for Mercedes this season after Rosberg’s
successes at the  Monaco  and British events.  Vettel leads the standings on 172 points, followed by
Raikkonen (134), Alonso (133), Hamilton (124) and Webber (105).
Red Bull tops the constructors’ event with 277 points, ahead of
Mercedes (208), Ferrari (194) and Lotus (183).  The next event, the 11th on the 19-race calendar, is the
Belgian Grand Prix at Spa-Francorchamps on Aug. 25 after the
mid-season break.  To contact the reporter on for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  