-- Arabtec Drops Most in Month After Rights Issue: Dubai Mover
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-07-28T08:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/arabtec-drops-most-in-month-after-rights-issue-dubai-mover.html
Arabtec Holding PJSC (ARTC)  fell the most
in more than a month after the biggest publicly traded
construction company in the  United Arab Emirates  sold new shares
at a discount.  The stock dropped 3.1 percent, the most since June 24, to
2.18 dirhams at 12:47 p.m. in Dubai as volume climbed to 52
million shares, or 1.8 times the three-month daily average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Arabtec was the  biggest
decliner  on the benchmark DFM General Index, which decreased 0.2
percent, trimming this month’s advance to 13 percent.  Dubai-based Arabtec raised 2.4 billion dirhams ($653
million) by selling 1.56 billion new shares at 1.5 dirhams each
in a rights issue, according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.
Proceeds from the offering, which was 30 percent oversubscribed,
will be used to fund an expansion plan announced this year, the
company said. Arabtec is winning new building contracts as the
U.A.E. economy recovers following a property-market crash.  “Normally when something is trading at 2.25 dirhams and
everyone gets given shares from a rights issue at 1.50, you’d
expect a bit of a sell-off,”  Julian Bruce , head of
institutional trading at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said in an e-mailed note to clients today. “I wouldn’t expect the pullback
to be too extended.”  Arabtec this year secured contracts to build the Abu Dhabi
branch of the Louvre, an airport terminal in the U.A.E. capital
and a 243 million-dirham deal from  Emaar Properties PJSC. (EMAAR)  The
company’s shares have climbed 17 percent this year,
underperforming a rally of 55 percent for the DFM, the world’s
best-performing gauge after  Ghana ’s index among 93 benchmarks
tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  