-- Baidu Leads Internet Gains as NQ Mobile Rallies: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-07-28T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/baidu-leads-internet-gains-as-nq-mobile-rallies-china-overnight.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , operator of China’s most
popular search engine, led a third straight weekly rally for the
country’s stocks traded in New York as better-than-estimated
earnings and acquisitions announcements boosted the outlook for
the industry.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. rose 3.3 percent last week to 92.88.
Baidu, which reported second-quarter profit that beat forecasts
after buying a mobile application store earlier this month,
jumped 15 percent in each of the past two weeks.  NQ Mobile Inc. (NQ) 
posted a record 11-day winning streak as it formed a partnership
with Baidu. Online fashion retailer  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  surged
13 percent after an analyst said it may be acquired.  Baidu Chief Financial Officer Jennifer Li said in an
interview that the company is actively looking for more
purchases after the company announced a $1.9 billion deal to buy
app store 91 Wireless on July 15, seeking to gain a greater
share of the growing mobile user market. Smaller rival Qihoo 360
Technology Co. said it’s in initial talks to buy  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ’s
search unit. Vipshop may become a target for Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd. as China’s biggest e-commerce company prepares for
an initial share sale, according to 86Research.  “China’s Internet giants are all trying to buy businesses
that complement their existing operations as they are competing
for the No.1 position in the sector,” Gavin Ni, founder and
chief executive officer of Beijing-based Zero2IPO Group, which
manages $500 million in venture capital, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York on July 26.  ETF Gains  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., advanced 2.9 percent last week
to $34.72 in a third week of gains. The Standard & Poor’s 500
ended the week little changed.  Baidu’s American depositary receipts surged to $127.56 last
week, the highest level since August. Its 30 percent jump since
July 12 was its best two-week gain since April 2008.  “We keep open-minded with regard to M&A, and we complement
our organic growth with M&A activities,” Baidu CFO Li said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television July 25 in Beijing. Baidu
has been “investing in potential companies that help us build
our core competency as well as to position ourselves in
strategically important areas that would drive long-term
growth.”  Mobile Search  The Beijing-based company agreed to buy app store 91
Wireless in the most expensive acquisition announced by a China-based technology company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. 91 Wireless distributes apps for Apple iPhones and
iPads as well as devices using Google’s Android system in China.
The deal came after Baidu’s $370 million purchase of the PPS
Internet video business earlier this year.  “The acquisitions are helpful to Internet companies’
growth,” Zero2IPO’s Ni said. “Baidu has to seek a new growth
driver to increase its penetration in the sector while Alibaba
is also expanding to other areas from just e-commerce.”  Baidu, which dominates in desk computer-based search in
China with market share of about 80 percent, has a share of
“well above” 50 percent in mobile search, Li said in the
interview.  The company reported second-quarter net income of 2.64
billion  yuan  ($431 million), compared with the 2.6 billion-yuan
average of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue rose 39 percent to 7.56 billion yuan as advertisers
spent more to reach out to mobile users.  Vipshop, a Guangzhou-based retailer of luxury fashion
brands, jumped 13 percent last week to a record $42.19 in New
York. It has surged 45 percent this month, and is headed for the
biggest monthly advance since its initial public offering in
March 2012.  Acquisition Target  The company could be targeted for acquisition by Alibaba,
Beijing-based 86Research Ltd. said in a note dated July 23.  “Vipshop would be a perfect candidate given that its
valuation is not so high,” according to the report, which said
investors should buy the stock due to “near-term earnings
upside and attractive valuation relative to its long-term growth
potential.”  Sohu,  China ’s third-biggest web portal, climbed for a
fourth straight week, adding 1.9 percent to $70, the highest
level since September 2011.  Qihoo, owner of the most-used web browser and the second-biggest search engine, is in initial talks to buy Sogou, Qihoo
CFO Alex Xu said in a July 19 interview.  Beijing-based Sohu is scheduled to report second-quarter
results today. Adjusted net income  may increase  31 percent from
a year earlier to $21.5 million, while sales may jump 33
percent, according to the average-estimate of at least four
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Distribution Deal  NQ, a mobile security service provider, soared 26 percent
last week to a record high of $13.88. NQ’s unit Beijing Feiliu
Jiutian Technology Co., a social mobile platform, entered a
partnership with Baidu last week, allowing Baidu’s Duoku website
to become the exclusive publisher of a mobile game developed by
NQ’s unit.  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , China’s biggest online travel
agency, is due to report second-quarter results July 31, and
social media company  YY Inc. (YY)  plans to release earnings on Aug.
1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  