-- Bespoke $50,000 Coat Cossets Winemaker in Vicuna, Silk
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-07-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/bespoke-50-000-coat-cossets-winemaker-in-vicuna-silk.html
Who knew that  Charles Dickens  died
owing money to his tailor?  Or that the vicuna, a distant relative of the Bactrian
camel, has hair 1/25,000th of an inch in diameter that makes for
sensational cloth?  Or that  Hosni Mubarak , the ousted Egyptian president, had
his name stitched in his pinstripes?  Meg Lukens Noonan’s slim yet encyclopedic “ The Coat Route:
Craft, Luxury and Obsession on the Trail of a $50,000 Coat ”
could’ve been subtitled “Everything You Wanted to Know about
Clothes But Didn’t Think to Ask.”  Noonan crisscrossed the globe from Sydney to  London ’s
Savile Row, from Lake Como,  Italy , to  Lima ,  Peru , in search of
the top artisans and materials that conspired to create one
over-the-top symbol of a bygone era.  A New Hampshire-based writer, she learned about the $50,000
overcoat from the  website  of John Cutler, who was commissioned
to create it in 2006. He’s a fourth-generation tailor in Sydney,
a clothes horse himself whose clients include Elton John and Boy George. The coat’s happy owner is Keith Lambert, former chief
executive of winemaker Southcorp Ltd., which was swallowed by
Foster’s Group Ltd. in 2005.  Gossamer Fleece  Made entirely by hand, the coat has wool woven from what
Noonan calls the “gossamer fleece” of the vicuna, which is a
llama-like creature found on  South America ’s Andes Mountains.
The silk lining comes from Florentine designer  Stefano Ricci , a
charismatic gourmand who hunts crocodiles on vacation.  Noonan was too late to observe the birth of “the overcoat
to end all overcoats” as it was already finished by the time
she got on the case. She sets upon visiting almost everyone who
had a hand in its making.  While magnificently researched, “The Coat Route” is more
travelogue than investigative report. Readers with only a
passing interest in threads may not be entirely hooked, but
there’s no quibbling about Noonan’s energy or eye for detail.  It’s her explanations and asides that are most memorable.
“Bespoke,” for example -- a widely abused term -- dates back
to 17th-century tailoring, when a customer would reserve or
“bespeak” a length of fabric. The cloth was then “bespoken”
for.  Lambert’s coat wasn’t made on Savile Row, but Noonan takes
a detour there. The famous tailors, who once had all the work
they could handle, have formed a  trade association  and even
hired public relations people to educate potential customers
about how their handiwork differs from flashy pretenders. She
notes that it doesn’t help that many tech moguls dress as if
it’s casual Friday seven days a week.  Fast Fashion  She looks at the dark side of “fast fashion retailers”
like  Zara (ITX)  and Forever 21, which are behind an explosion of
waste. Citing the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, she
reports that Americans discard about 13 million tons of textiles
annually. Most of it ends up in the trash and may contribute to
 climate change  as it decomposes.  Ideally, ultra-luxury clothing lasts and is treasured.
“They try once, and they want more, because they feel good in
what they are wearing,” Ricci tells Noonan. “Thanks to God,
they get addicted -- they want to possess.”  That’s true of Lambert. Noonan visits him in  Vancouver  and
tries on his dark vicuna treasure.  “Beautiful,” she declares.  Turns out he’s ordered a second handmade vicuna overcoat
from his uber-tailor -- in tan.  “The Coat Route” is published by Spiegel & Grau (244
pages, $27). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Philip Boroff is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff at   pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 