-- Blackstone Sees Fewer Breaks as Singh Founders: Corporate India
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-07-29T11:36:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/blackstone-sees-fewer-breaks-as-singh-founders-corporate-india.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is finding fewer
opportunities in  India , where it says “serious governance
issues” threaten to erode investor returns amid the slowest
pace of economic growth in a decade.  The world’s largest manager of alternative assets including
private equity and real estate has been “very cautious” in
 Asia ’s third-biggest economy because it is becoming more
difficult for the government to make the right decisions,  Akhil Gupta , chairman of Blackstone’s Indian unit, said in an
interview in his office in Mumbai.  “The most prudent assumptions made of India are turning
out to be highly optimistic,” he said. “One doesn’t see a way
out. I haven’t ever seen such pessimism when we talk to Indian
company or government officials.”  New York-based Blackstone is among investors deterred by a
policy drift after a series of corruption allegations paralyzed
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration. Frequent rule
changes and litigations have undermined confidence in the $1.8
trillion economy that  expanded  5 percent in the year to March
31, the least since 2003, versus an unprecedented average of 8.7
percent in the five years before the financial crisis of 2008.  Behind Kazakhstan  Gupta’s pessimism echoes that of Indian billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla, who said in March that he would rather invest in
countries such as  Brazil  and  Indonesia . India slipped three
levels to 59th in the 2013  World Economic Forum ’s Global
Competitiveness Index, behind  Costa Rica  and  Kazakhstan . Brazil
was ranked 48, while Indonesia was in the 50th position.  India’s government has changed policies since September to
fight the weakest economic growth in a decade by easing
investment rules in the aviation and retail businesses.  “We think inflows will resume,” Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram said in an interview in Moscow this
month. “There’s a good chance we can grow close to 6 percent.”  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, and South
Korea’s  Posco (005490)  this month scrapped $12 billion of proposed steel
projects in India as land acquisition delays and slowing demand
for the alloy diminished their viability.  The decision by the two companies is a blow to Singh, who
is struggling to lure capital inflows from abroad and finance a
record  current-account deficit  that pushed the local currency to
an all-time low this month. He is scheduled to meet top business
executives today to review steps needed to revive the economy.  ‘Muddled’ Message  The benchmark S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  index of stocks has dropped
6.7 percent since peaking in November 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The governance issue has a cascading impact on everything
else,” Gupta said. “It results in higher inflation, higher
 interest rates , low profitability, lower stock prices. I am not
one who is betting on a turnaround soon.”  The  Reserve Bank of India , which cut the benchmark
repurchase rate three times this year after gains in wholesale
prices eased, started tightening money markets to stem the slide
in the rupee, which has plunged 8.7 percent against the dollar
since March 31, the most among Asian currencies.  The RBI on July 15 raised the marginal standing facility
and bank rates to 10.25 percent and set a cap on daily lending
through the repo window. Deutsche Bank AG said the RBI’s
unexpected policy reversal sent a “muddled” message to
investors, while Mizuho Bank Ltd. said the central bank’s
measures lacked coherence.  Factory Output  The measures by the RBI fueled a surge in bank funding
costs, with three-month interbank money rates jumping to 10.73
percent today, the highest since April 2012. Loans in India rose
13.7 percent in June from a year earlier, the least since 2009,
while corporate bond sales plunged 96 percent in July.  Factory  output  slumped 1.6 percent in May, according to the
latest available data, while retail inflation averaged 10
percent since April 2012.  Standard & Poor’s  last year lowered
the sovereign outlook to negative and a step closer to junk.  “It is not just my view, but everybody is being
cautious,” Gupta said. “Some of the deals that would have
passed muster in a normal environment view, we won’t do it now.
The number of deals that qualify for investments in this
environment has significantly come down.”  Real Estate  Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity firm,
oversees $229.6 billion in assets. It has invested about $2.9
billion in India, with about a third of the total in real
estate, according to the company.  The firm on July 17 announced it invested about 3.3 billion
rupees ($56 million) in Agile Electric Sub-Assembly Ltd. by
buying out the stake owned by HBL Power Systems Ltd., making it
the company’s fourth buyout in India and triggering an open
offer for Agile’s unit  Igarashi Motors India Ltd. (IGM)   HBL needed the money to expand its battery business, while
Blackstone will bring in more funds to help Agile’s growth, said
Padmanaban Mukund, managing director of Agile.  “I am long-term very bullish on India,” he said. “India
has the best fundamentals for sustained high growth for any
large economy with both supply- and demand-side demographics in
its favor.”  Blackstone invested $300 million in Moser Baer Projects
Pvt. for a “significant minority stake,” Gupta had said in
August 2010. It bought a stake in Monnet Power Co., a unit of
 Monnet Ispat & Energy Ltd. (MISP) , in July 2010.  Gupta said he won’t be making investments in the power
sector for now because fuel-supply bottlenecks and mining
restrictions due to environmental concerns have hurt electricity
producers. A court-ordered ban on iron-ore mining has also
starved steelmakers in the country.  Vodafone Tax  Birla, who runs companies with sales totaling $40 billion,
said in March that frequent policy changes discourages spending,
saying India’s country risk is “pretty elevated.”  “Chances are that for deployment of capital, you would
look to see if there’s an asset overseas rather than India,” he
said in an interview to Bloomberg TV India. “Global capital
today is extremely mobile. Why will anyone invest in India?”  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s second-largest wireless
carrier, is still seeking to settle a $2.2 billion tax dispute
with Indian authorities stemming from the 2007 purchase of
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s local operations. The nation’s  Supreme
Court  ruled on Jan. 20, 2012 that the Newbury, U.K.-based
company isn’t liable to pay the levies demanded by India.  ‘Strategic Player’  In February 2012, the top court canceled 122 mobile-phone
licenses held by local partners of companies including Norway’s
 Telenor ASA (TEL)  and Russia’s Sistema JSFC, after the government
auditor said the 2008 sale of the permits lacked transparency
and ineligible bidders bought them at “unbelievably low
prices.”  “For a strategic player with a long-term view of 30-year
horizon, it’s a great time to come to the country,” Gupta said.
“For a PE investor, it is difficult as you don’t know what’s
going to happen. If growth doesn’t take place in two to three
years, whole returns will be eaten away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  