-- Cambodia’s Hun Sen Set to Extend 28-Year Rule With Fewer Seats
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-07-28T14:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/cambodia-s-hun-sen-set-to-extend-28-year-rule-with-fewer-seats.html
Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen
appeared set to extend his 28-year rule in one of  Asia ’s poorest
countries with a reduced majority, withstanding a surge from
opponents who accused him of corruption and abuse of power.  The ruling Cambodian  People’s Party  won 68 seats in the
123-member parliament, compared with 55 seats for the opposition
 Cambodia  National Rescue Party led by Sam Rainsy, government
spokesman  Phay Siphan  said by phone. The country’s closest
election in two decades reduced the ruling party’s parliamentary
majority to 13 seats from more than 60.  “We have to work hard,” Phay Siphan said, adding the
numbers were based on party tallies and weren’t official
results. The outcome “gives us an opportunity to reconcile and
strengthen democracy in Cambodia.”  The tighter result may increase pressure on Hun Sen to
allow greater political freedoms after the opposition gained
traction by focusing on forced evictions, land-grabs and
workers’ rights. Sam Rainsy, who returned to the country earlier
this month and was barred from standing in the election, called
it a “historical day” for Cambodia.  “People came in great number to express their will and
democracy seemed to move forward,” Sam Rainsy told reporters
before the results were announced. “Everything seems to be more
mature.”  He called for calm after opposition supporters in one area
of the capital  Phnom Penh  overturned military police trucks and
set them on fire. Hundreds of onlookers, including monks and
children, watched as the vehicles were set ablaze, according to
footage broadcast on the Cambodia National Rescue Party website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  