-- China’s Slowdown ‘Won’t Derail’ U.S. Recovery, Biden Says
-- B y   H a s l i n d a   A m i n   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-07-29T02:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/china-s-slowdown-won-t-derail-u-s-economic-recovery-biden-says.html
U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden  said
the country’s economic recovery is on track even as China’s
growth has slowed.  “It won’t derail it,” Biden said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in Singapore. “But obviously, slowing of
growth in the second-biggest economy of the world is just like
if our economy slowed: it will affect the world.”  China’s gross domestic product rose 7.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, down from 7.7 percent in the
previous period, extending the longest streak of sub-8 percent
expansion in at least two decades. Officials on July 25 ordered
more than 1,400 companies in 19 industries to cut excess
production capacity this year, part of efforts to shift toward
slower, more-sustainable economic growth.  China  is the biggest trading partner for the U.S. after
 Canada , with two-way trade last year reaching $536.2 billion.
Bilateral commerce favors China, with the deficit on the U.S.
side at $315 billion in 2012, more than any other country. The
nation is also the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries,
with its holdings rising to a record $1.316 trillion in May,
according to Treasury Department data.  “I would agree with that 100 percent,” said Geoffrey Lewis, global market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in
 Hong Kong , referring to Biden’s comments. “We’re not talking a
really, really hard landing in China, we’re just talking about
growth of maybe 6.5 percent rather than 7.5 percent -- that
absolutely will not derail U.S. economic recovery.”  Biden spoke about U.S.-China ties as he wrapped up a six-day trip of  Singapore  and  India . He also met with Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe in the city-state.  Economic Promise  The U.S.,  Japan  and Singapore are among a dozen countries
working toward an agreement by year-end on the Trans-Pacific
Partnership, a free-trade accord to link an area with about $26
trillion in annual economic output.  “My key takeaway is there is interest and enthusiasm for
enhanced trade and commerce,” Biden said in the July 27
interview. The TPP offers “incredible economic promise.”  Revised data from the U.S. Commerce Department last month
showed the world’s largest economy grew at a 1.8 percent
annualized rate in the first quarter of the year as  consumer
spending  climbed at a 2.6 percent pace. While both estimates
were lower than previously calculated, consumer spending
rebounded in May and other reports showed the housing recovery
is gaining momentum and consumers are becoming more confident.  “China’s slowdown is unlikely to have a meaningful impact
on U.S. growth,” said Song Seng Wun, an economist at  CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  in Singapore. “U.S. growth is determined more by
domestic consumption. The U.S. has seen fairly steady growth.”  Biden also sought to ease tensions in the region on his
visit, pushing China to negotiate quickly with Southeast Asian
nations on a code of conduct for the  South China Sea , an area he
said is a “major, major, major highway of commerce.” The U.S.
is seeking to compete with China economically, while also
collaborating in areas such as the environment, Biden said.  “We see a China that’s made up of competition and
cooperation,” he said. “There’s nothing inevitable about there
being conflict with China.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  