-- China Molybdenum to Pay $820 Million for Rio Copper Mine
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-07-29T06:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/china-molybdenum-to-pay-820-million-for-rio-mine-to-add-copper.html
China Molybdenum Co. (3993) , the nation’s
second-biggest producer of the steelmaking material, agreed to
pay $820 million for  Rio (RIO)  Tinto Group’s Northparkes mine to gain
its first overseas copper asset.  The sale should be completed by the end of the year, Rio
said today in a statement. London-based Rio owns 80 percent of
the mine with the balance held by Sumitomo Metal Mining Co. and
 Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , which have the right to match the offer.  Buying the stake gives China Molybdenum control of a mine
in New South Wales that provided 43,100 metric tons of mined
copper for Rio in 2012 as well as a specialist underground
training center. The purchase ranks as the third-largest by a
Chinese company of a mining asset announced this year as the
number and value of the nation’s deals in the sector slides from
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The acquisition is part of  China  Moly’s diversification
to boost profit as molybdenum has been weak over the past few
years in line with China’s sluggish steel market,” said Kevin Guo, a Shenzhen-based analyst with Guotai Junan Securities Co..
“Production of copper enjoys a higher premium than other base
metals such as zinc and lead.”  Rio declined 0.2 percent to A$57.11 at the close in Sydney.
The stock has dropped 13 percent this year. China Molybdenum
halted its shares today pending an announcement on a
transaction.  The deal is subject to “customary” regulatory approvals,
Rio said according to the statement. The mine, which began
operation in 1994, is valued at about $800 million, Citigroup
Inc. said in a February report.  Deals Decline  Before today, Chinese companies had announced 67 mining
deals this year worth a total of $7.1 billion, down from 269 in
2012 worth $27.7 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. China Molybdenum last bought assets in 2008, when it
paid HK$350 million ($45 million) for three gold mines in China,
according to the data.  The “board is optimistic on copper and gold,” China
Molybdenum Chairman Wu Wenjun said in a phone interview.
“Although they’re a small part in our operations, they’re part
of our development strategy both in China and overseas.”  Copper, used in electrical wiring and tubes, is expected to
gain until at least 2015, according to analyst forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg, as aging ore bodies and few large new
discoveries keep the metal’s supply and demand balance tight.  The Northparkes operation “is a good performer on any
measure except scale” while the asset had “significant
expansion potential,” Adrian Wood, a Sydney-based analyst with
Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a report.  Insufficient Size  Rio may reap $10.4 billion from asset sales, Deutsche Bank
AG estimated in March, as the company joins global rivals in
selling assets after falling commodity prices  crimped revenue .
The company considered selling Northparkes, which is in New
South Wales state, in 2009, and held onto it after copper and
gold prices rose, Rio said in December that year.  “Northparkes is a successful business but is not of
sufficient size to be a good fit with our strategy,” Chief
Financial Officer Chris Lynch said in the statement. “The
agreed sale of Northparkes follows our recently completed
divestment of the Eagle nickel project in the United States.”  Copper for delivery in three months, the London Metal
Exchange’s benchmark, has dropped 13 percent this year to $6,862
a ton on July 26, entering a bear market in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  