-- China Orders Government-Debt Audit as Growth Risks Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-29T06:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/china-to-audit-government-borrowings-as-risks-to-growth-increase.html
China  will start a nationwide audit
of government debt this week as the new Communist Party
leadership investigates the threats to growth and the financial
system from a record credit boom.  The State Council, under Premier  Li Keqiang , ordered the
review, the National Audit Office said in a  statement  yesterday.
The office suspended other projects for this “urgent” work
requested on July 26 and will send staff to provinces and cities
this week, People’s Daily reported yesterday on its website,
citing sources it didn’t identify.  Chinese stocks fell as the first full audit in more than
two years underscored dangers to the economy from borrowing by
local governments and an expansion of non-traditional sources of
 credit . The new leadership oversaw a showdown with state-owned
lenders last month as the People’s Bank of China engineered a
cash squeeze to pressure banks to better manage their liquidity
and assets.  “Local-government debt has become a focus in recent years
and is a source of concern about China’s growth,” said Ding Shuang, senior China economist at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong,
who previously worked for the  International Monetary Fund . “The
new leadership is trying to give a clear answer.”  The benchmark  Shanghai  Composite  Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1.7 percent at
2:45 p.m. local time on the debt concern and a report on July 27
showing Chinese industrial companies’ profit growth slowed to
6.3 percent in June from a year earlier, compared with a gain of
15.5 percent in May.  Sustain Growth  Last week, China announced what Bank of America Corp.
called a “small stimulus,” expanded a crackdown on wasteful
 government spending  and ordered cuts in manufacturing
overcapacity, as new leaders grapple with a slowing economy and
public concerns ranging from  house prices  to corruption. Efforts
to sustain growth include small-company tax breaks and speeding
up railway construction, while frugality measures include a
five-year ban on building government offices.  The first audit of local-government debt found liabilities
of 10.7 trillion  yuan  ($1.75 trillion) at the end of 2010, the
National Audit Office said in June 2011.  The audit’s urgency may be because “confidence in the
Chinese economy from all sides has weakened recently,” Ding
said.  Ding estimated China has at least 12 trillion yuan of
local-government debt. The review may pave the way for future
fiscal reforms, including changes to rules on local governments’
roles and responsibilities, Ding said.  The People’s Daily newspaper, the Communist Party
mouthpiece, reported on the audit office’s statement on today’s
front page, without mentioning the additional information given
on its website.  Deficit Ratio  Separately, China’s government has decided to cap the ratio
of the fiscal deficit to gross domestic product at 3 percent in
a bid to avert a downgrade of China’s credit rating by
international rating companies, China Business News reported
today, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter.  That “could be potentially a very stringent requirement”
if the government “were to consider all the off-budget
spending,” Yao Wei, China economist at Societe Generale SA in
 Hong Kong , said in a note today. The deficit has been “hovering
above 5 percent of GDP for several years now” when considering
increases in local government debt, Yao wrote.  China Development Bank , the world’s largest policy bank,
signed a cooperation agreement July 26 with the government of
the eastern province of Jiangsu on supporting economic
restructuring, Jiangsu Daily reported yesterday without giving
financial details. Jiangsu is China’s second-biggest economy
after  Guangdong province .  Shadow Banking  The first quarter’s record $1 trillion increase in economy-wide financing contrasted with an unexpected growth slowdown,
suggesting China is becoming less responsive to credit. Data
from June showed China made progress in curbing shadow banking
while slowing money-supply expansion.  The government must be on “high alert” to the dangers of
rising borrowing, Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  warned on
July 5, after central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in March
that about 20 percent of local government debt is risky.  Local-government financing vehicles need to repay a record
amount of debt this year, prompting Moody’s Investors Service to
warn that Premier Li may set an example by allowing China’s
first onshore bond default.  Regional governments set up more than 10,000 LGFVs to fund
the construction of roads, sewage plants and subways after they
were barred from directly issuing bonds under a 1994 budget law.
A 4 trillion yuan stimulus plan during the 2008-09 financial
crisis swelled loans to companies, which they have been rolling
over or refinancing with new note sales.  Bond Sales  LGFVs may hold more than 20 trillion yuan of debt, former
Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said in April. Refinancing will
be a challenge after corporate bond sales slumped to a two-year
low in the second quarter and policy makers cracked down on
shadow-banking activities that bypass regulatory limits on
lending.  An audit is the “first step to solve the local-government
debt problem -- you have to know the details and then you’ll
know how big the problem is,”  Zhu Haibin , chief China economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a media briefing in Beijing
today.  While local government debt may have increased to 13
trillion yuan or 14 trillion yuan, the amount as a proportion of
GDP hasn’t changed much, Zhu said.  Debt Burden  Societe Generale estimates that the debt servicing cost of
non-financial companies and local government investment vehicles
was about 39 percent at the end of last year, based on an
average interest rate of 6.3 percent and an average maturity of
4.4 years. Their debt burden was 145 percent to 150 percent of
gross domestic product, economist Yao estimated in May, citing
“rough” calculations made more difficult by limits on lending
data, especially for shadow banking.  Charlene Chu, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings  in Beijing, has
flagged the broader risks to the financial system from total
lending by banks and other financial institutions in China that
Fitch estimates grew to 198 percent of GDP last year from 125
percent four years earlier. Fitch cut the nation’s long-term
local-currency debt rating in April, in the first downgrade by
one of the top three rating companies in 14 years.  Elsewhere in  Asia  today, Japan’s retail sales unexpectedly
fell in June from May, a report showed. Hiroaki Muto, an
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management in  Tokyo , said the
decline was “payback” after a jump the previous month and
consumption “will probably continue to stay solid.”  European data to be released include U.K. mortgage
approvals for June and Italian business confidence for July. In
the U.S., the National Association of Realtors will publish its
June pending sales index of previously owned homes, while the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  will report on Texas
manufacturing activity this month.  --Zhou Xin, with assistance from  Judy Chen  in Shanghai, Penny
Peng, Stephen Tan and Jessica Zhou in Beijing, Keiko Ujikane in
Tokyo and Shamim Adam in  Singapore . Editors: Scott Lanman, Rina Chandran  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at   xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  