-- Copperbelt Energy to Raise $150 Million for Expansion
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-07-29T15:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/copperbelt-energy-to-raise-150-million-for-expansion.html
Copperbelt Energy Corp., which
supplies power in Zambia to  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN)  and  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED) , plans to raise as much as $150 million through
loans and equity to expand and refinance existing debt.  Loans of as much as $100 million from German and Dutch
development-finance institutions will be completed in three
months and will probably have 10-year maturities, Michael Tarney, corporate development managing director at the Lusaka-based company, said in an interview on July 26.  “We still think that is the safest form of lending at the
moment,” he said in Lusaka, capital of Africa’s biggest copper
producer, on July 26. “The terms you get from the development-finance institutions are still better than bonds.”  Copperbelt Energy, known as CEC, will also try and raise
about $50 million in a rights offer this year as it seeks to
become the biggest privately owned power company in sub-Saharan
 Africa , where only about one in four people have access to
electricity, according to the  World Bank . U.S. President  Barack Obama  on July 1 unveiled a $7 billion plan to double access to
power in some countries in the region.  CEC tested the market for a bond sale two to three months
ago, and concluded that a debt sale would be more expensive than
development-finance loans and its maturity would also be
shorter, Tarney said. Bonds may be sold at a later date, he
said.  Bridge Loan  The debt funding deals are with FMO, the Dutch  development
bank , and Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft,
said Tarney. Some of the proceeds will go to refinancing a
bridge loan CEC has with South Africa’s  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)   The financing will probably have an interest rate of the
London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, plus 5 percent to 6
percent, Tarney said. The rate that London-based banks would pay
for three-month loans in pounds was 0.509 percent on July 26,
according to the  British Bankers Association .  CEC owns power plants and distribution lines in Zambia, and
was named as the preferred bidder for electricity assets in
Abuja, Nigeria, in February. Through CEC Africa Investments
Ltd., a unit set up to invest in projects outside Zambia, the
company plans to complete a deal to invest in Sierra Leone’s
electricity system this year.  Copperbelt Energy is in talks with “long-term
infrastructure funds” from  South Africa , the U.S. and the U.K.
about the sale of stakes in its CEC Africa unit, said Tarney.
The company plans to sell shares to the public in the unit in
about five years, he said. The company may end up owning a
minority stake in CEC Africa after bringing in additional
investors, Tarney said.  Shares of Copperbelt Energy closed trade at 0.74 kwacha on
the Lusaka Stock Exchange today, according to the bourse’s
Website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  