-- Dollar Rises Versus Most Peers Before Fed Meeting; Yen Gains
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-07-29T21:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/dollar-falls-to-1-month-low-versus-yen-before-home-sales-fomc.html
The dollar strengthened versus the
majority of its most-traded peers amid expectations the  Federal
Reserve  will reiterate plans this week to reduce stimulus if
economic performance continues to show signs of improvement.  Japan ’s currency advanced against all of its 16 major peers
after Japanese retail sales fell and Chinese industrial
companies reported slowing profits, boosting demand for haven
assets. The Bloomberg  Dollar Index  rose from almost six-week low
after an industry report showed pending U.S. home sales declined
less than forecast. The Federal Reserve’s Open Market Committee
starts a two-day meeting tomorrow.  “You’re just seeing a little bit of position adjusting
ahead of this week’s events,” said  Marc Chandler , global head
of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York. “The second half of the week will be more positive for
the dollar.”  The dollar rose 0.1 percent to $1.3262 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time. The greenback slid 0.3 percent to 97.96 per yen,
falling for a third day versus its Japanese counterpart. Japan’s
currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 129.91 per euro.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks dropped 1.7 percent,
while the Topix index of Japanese shares slid 3.3 percent.
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent.  Exchange Volume  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $18.9 billion, down 33 percent from the average,
according to data reported to U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $4 billion, the largest
share of trades at 21 percent. Options on the pound-dollar rate
totaled $2.2 billion, or 11 percent.  Currency trading volumes in the U.S. and U.K. rose to
records in April, according to the Foreign Exchange Committee’s
twice-yearly survey.  The average-daily-volume of U.S. currency trading rose 27
percent since October to $1 trillion, the committee said today
in a statement. U.K. volume rose 26 percent to $2.55 trillion.  Dollar-yen trading made up 47 percent of the increase in
American trading volume, while the pair more than doubled in the
U.K., the committee said.  The  New Zealand dollar  has gained 3.9 percent to the
greenback this month, the most out of all major counterparts,
while Brazil’s real has led all decliners with a 1.6 percent
decrease. This year, the  Mexican peso  has led all gainers with a
0.8 percent increase, while South Africa’s rand has plunged 13
percent.  Swedish Sales  Sweden’s krona climbed against all most of its major peers
after a report from Stockholm-based Statistics Sweden showed
 retail sales  grew an annual 3.6 percent in June, up from 3.1
percent in May. The median estimate in a  survey  of five
economists was for sales to grow 2.1 percent. The krona
appreciated 0.2 percent to 8.5903 per euro.  Investors should buy the krona while selling Norway’s krone
as the two Scandinavian economies diverge, Morgan Stanley
strategists including  Hans Redeker  wrote in client note today.  The South African rand slid after the Pretoria-based
 Reserve Bank  said growth in borrowing by the nation’s households
and companies slowed to 8.9 percent in June from 9.1 percent in
the previous month. The rand weakened 0.2 percent to 9.7938 per
dollar.  Moderate Growth  Malaysia’s ringgit decreased against all 31 of its most-traded counterparts as the prospect of slower growth in  China 
dimmed the outlook for Malaysian shipments. The currency slipped
0.7 percent to 3.23, its weakest level since October 2011.  Japanese retail sales dropped 0.2 percent last month
compared with May, figures today showed, missing the median
estimate for a 0.8 percent increase in a  Bloomberg News  survey
of economists.  Japan’s economic expansion will be moderate going forward
and some time is needed before the Bank of Japan’s inflation
target is reached, Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in  Tokyo . He
also said a planned sales-tax increase “won’t give major damage
to the growth in Japan’s economy.”  The dollar-yen’s one-month implied volatility rose to 13.75
percent, the most since July 11. The yen tends to strengthen
during periods of financial and economic turmoil because Japan
isn’t reliant on foreign capital to fund its deficit.  EM Slowdown  “The slowdown in  emerging markets  is spreading to other
economies and that’s helping to support the yen,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Ltd. in  London . “It’s also a function of broader dollar
weakness, which is pushing the yen up.”  Investors should sell the yen if it appreciates to 95 per
dollar on a bet that the  U.S. economy  will strengthen later this
year, Hardman said.  The Bloomberg Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, gained 0.1 percent to
1,024.13 after touching 1,021.21, the lowest since June 19.  An  index  of pending homes sales in the U.S. declined 0.4
percent in June from the previous month, when it increased a
revised 5.8 percent, according to data released by the National
Association of Realtors. The median estimate of economists
 surveyed  by Bloomberg News was for a 1 percent decrease.  Economists in a separate Bloomberg survey  estimate  the
Conference Board will say tomorrow its gauge of  consumer
confidence  fell to 81 in July from 81.4 in June.  FOMC Statement  “The FOMC statement may reflect the recent slowdown in the
U.S. economy,” Shinichiro Kadota, a strategist for non-yen debt
at Barclays Plc in Tokyo, wrote in a report to clients today.
“Should expectations of the Fed’s stimulus reduction be pushed
back further or economic data disappoint, the dollar will likely
face further downward pressure.”  The dollar won’t get a boost from the FOMC statement this
week,  Steven Saywell , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA,
wrote today in a client note. The risk-reward on new dollar long
positions is not attractive heading into the meeting, he wrote.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress earlier this
month that any reduction in stimulus would depend on the
economy’s performance. The U.S. central bank purchases $85
billion of Treasuries and mortgage debt each month. It has held
the benchmark  interest-rate  target at zero to 0.25 percent since
2008 to support the economy.  The yen and Australian dollar have tumbled 8.9 percent this
year, the most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro has gained the
most, rising about 4.9 percent, while the dollar has added 4.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Marshall in New York at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  