-- Dollar Holding Declines as Fed May Decide to Maintain Stimulus
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-07-28T22:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/dollar-holding-declines-as-fed-may-decide-to-maintain-stimulus.html
The dollar held declines from last
week against most major peers as U.S. economic data failed to
convince investors the  Federal Reserve  will decide to reduce
stimulus by slowing its bond-buying program.  The yen rose to a one-month high against the greenback.  New
Zealand ’s dollar was little changed after surging last week when
central-bank Governor Graeme Wheeler signaled he may raise
 interest rates  next year. The  Federal Open Market Committee 
starts a two-day policy meeting tomorrow. Data showed sales of
U.S. new homes rose last month, while existing-home sales fell.  “We saw mixed news on the  U.S. economy , and that further
clouded the outlook for Fed taper plans,”  Joe Manimbo , a market
analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western
Union Co., said July 26 by telephone from Washington. “The
market still hasn’t quite received that knock-out punch for a
September taper.”  The yen reached 97.92 per dollar earlier today, the
strongest since June 27, and traded at 98.15 as of 7:07 a.m. in
Tokyo. Japan’s currency jumped 2.5 percent to 98.21 yen last
week in New York, the most since the five days ended June 14.  The U.S. currency was unchanged at $1.3279 per euro after
declining 1 percent in the five days ended July 26, when it
touched $1.3297, its weakest level since June 20. Europe’s
shared currency was little changed at 130.32 yen after weakening
1.4 percent last week.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index  fell for a third week,
decreasing 1 percent to 1,022.85. The gauge monitors the
greenback against 10 other major currencies.  Volatility Lessens  A measure of price fluctuations among Group-of-Seven
currencies fell for a fifth week, the longest stretch in a year.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7 Volatility Index declined to 9.47
percent after touching 9.11 percent on July 24, the lowest
intraday level since May 9.  New Zealand’s dollar was the biggest winner last week among
the greenback’s major counterparts, after the yen, with a 2.1
percent gain. The  Mexican peso  was the biggest loser, sliding
1.1 percent, while Brazil’s real dropped 0.4 percent in the
second-worst performance.  The kiwi, as the South Pacific currency is nicknamed,
climbed after the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand said the pace of
future interest-rate increases will depend on the impact on
prices of the nation’s growing housing, while reiterating it
will keep borrowing costs at a record-low 2.5 percent in 2013.  The “Reserve Bank has told us that they’re going to
tighten explicitly, no ifs or buts,” said  Imre Speizer , a
markets strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Auckland. “The
pressure from the markets would be to the upside for the kiwi.”  The kiwi bought 80.81 U.S. cents today, from 80.86 U.S.
cents on July 26. It gained 1.9 percent on July 25, the most in
a day on a closing basis since June 2012.  Seeking Safety  The yen climbed last week as investors sought safety as
Japanese stocks posted the biggest weekly decline since June 7
amid disappointing corporate earnings. The  Topix (TPX)  Index of
equities slid 3.7 percent.  The yen has been the biggest loser this year among the 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, dropping 9.4 percent as officials pushed to
stem deflation and spur growth. The euro has been the best
performer, rallying 4.9 percent, and the U.S. currency has
advanced 4.1 percent.  The dollar dropped last week on speculation the Fed won’t
be quick to taper its bond buying under the quantitative-easing
stimulus strategy, which tends to devalue the currency. The
central bank purchases $85 billion of Treasuries and mortgage
debt each month. It has held the benchmark  interest-rate  target
at zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 to support the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  