-- Elan Is Said to Near Sale of Company With Perrigo in Lead
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2013-07-28T19:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/elan-is-said-to-near-sale-of-company-with-perrigo-in-lead.html
Irish pharmaceutical company  Elan
Corp. (ELN)  is nearing a sale, with  Perrigo Co. (PRGO)  as a frontrunner,
according to three people familiar with the situation.  An announcement may come as soon as tomorrow, said the
people, who asked not to be identified discussing a private
matter. While Perrigo is currently the most likely buyer for
Dublin-based Elan, no final decision has been made and
competitors such as Allergan Inc. and Mylan Inc. could still
secure a deal, the people said.  Buying Elan, whose current market capitalization is $7.64
billion, would allow a U.S. company such as Perrigo to take
advantage of its Irish headquarters to re-domicile itself in
Ireland, where the rate of corporate income tax is 12.5 percent.
Elan’s main product is Tysabri, a drug for multiple sclerosis
for which the company receives royalties from  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ,
the marketer of the drug.  Arthur Shannon and Bradley Joseph, investor-relations
representatives for Allegan, Michigan-based Perrigo, and an Elan
spokesman couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Elan earlier this year began an auction process to seek a
buyer after Royalty Pharma, a firm that invests in the income
streams from existing drugs, spent four months trying to acquire
it. Royalty has been exploring ways to partner with an eventual
acquirer of Elan, allowing it to take on royalty streams while
the buyer uses the Irish company’s corporate shell, people
familiar with the matter said in June.  Elan’s shares rose 42 percent this year to 11.14 euros in
Dublin as of July 26. Perrigo’s shares advanced 29 percent to
$134.23 in  New York , giving it a market value of $12.6 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  