-- Envestra Traders Bet on Sweetened Takeover Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-07-29T06:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/envestra-traders-bet-on-sweetened-takeover-bid-real-m-a.html
Traders in  Envestra Ltd. (ENV)  are betting
it’ll take a sweeter takeover bid to get a hold of Australian
gas pipelines long enough to stretch from Sydney to  New York .  Envestra ended last week 11 percent above the value of APA
Group’s A$1.3 billion ($1.2 billion) all-stock proposal, higher
than any other large pending deal in developed  Asia , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. APA, already the owner of a third
of the company, this month offered a premium that was less than
half the average for gas-distribution deals in the past five
years, the data show.  APA delivers about half of  Australia ’s natural gas and
wants to buy the rest of Envestra to gain control of profits
that are  estimated  to jump 66 percent by 2014. Sydney-based APA
may need to raise its bid 14 percent to win support from the
company, according to  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)   “APA will have to pay a further premium,” Will Allott, a
Sydney-based analyst at Commonwealth Bank, said in a phone
interview. “This transaction provides a pretty attractive and
steady cash flow stream over the next four years.”  Envestra’s 23,000 kilometers (14,000 miles) of  pipelines 
supply gas to about 1.2 million customers, most of them in the
states of Victoria and  South Australia . The Adelaide-based
company’s networks are regulated by a  watchdog  that determines
revenues over five-year periods. Envestra has just 15 employees.  Lower Premium  APA, which operates and manages Envestra’s pipelines, on
July 16  offered  0.1678 of one new APA share for each Envestra
share. The bid equated to A$1.07 a share, based on APA’s close
the previous day. That price excludes a final dividend of as
much as 3 cents a share by Envestra to its shareholders, which
include  Li Ka-Shing , Asia’s richest man.  The offer was only 6.3 percent more than Envestra’s 20-day
stock  average , lower than the average premium of 16 percent for
gas-distribution deals since July 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  APA ended last week at A$5.95, valuing the offer at A$1 a
share. After Envestra closed at A$1.11, no target in developed
Asia valued at more than than $500 million is trading further
above its offer, the data show.  Envestra today rose  0.5 percent  to A$1.115 in Sydney, while
APA fell 0.8 percent to A$5.90, leaving the target trading 13
percent above the value of the offer.  APA Chief Executive Officer Mick McCormack has  said  that
the offer reflects Envestra’s cashflows and that the all-stock
deal allows investors who accept the bid to still benefit from
any growth at Envestra. APA declined to comment further.  Des Petherick, Envestra’s company secretary, declined to
comment on how the company will respond to APA’s offer. Managing
Director Ian Little told the Australian Financial Review July 17
the deal’s benefits were “hard to see.”  Bid Expectations  “It’s not going to be accepted,” Simon Chan, an analyst
at Bank of America Corp. in Sydney, said in a phone interview.
“There is headroom for APA to pay a higher price.”  APA could pay the equivalent of A$1.20 a share and reap a 6
percent boost to free  cash flow , he said.  A bid of A$1.25, including a 3-cent dividend from Envestra,
may be required to win over shareholders, said Allott, the
analyst at Commonwealth Bank. A proposal valued at A$1.22 a
share, excluding the dividend, may be enough, Sandra McCullagh,
a Sydney-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
July 17 note.  According to APA, the takeover proposal must be backed by
Li’s  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. , Envestra’s
second-largest shareholder with a 17 percent stake.  Cheung Kong’s corporate communications unit in  Hong Kong 
didn’t immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment.  Growing Demand  Australia’s domestic gas consumption will more than double
between 2010 and 2035, according to a July 2012  report  by
Australia’s Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics. Gas is
replacing coal as a fuel to generate electricity, and liquefied
natural gas projects are consuming more gas during production,
the bureau said.  With demand set to rise, APA has spent $3.8 billion
completing 18 deals in the past decade, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The company  bought the rest  of natural-gas
pipeline owner Hastings Diversified Utilities Fund last year for
A$1.2 billion after increasing its bid twice. APA’s pipelines
now span every state and territory on mainland Australia.  A takeover of Envestra would create a larger company with
broader and cheaper access to  capital markets , APA CEO McCormack
said in a  filing  on the day of the bid. As well as buying
Envestra, APA is considering investing in new pipelines in
Queensland -- home to more than $60 billion of LNG projects --
and a connection between APA’s east-coast grid and the Northern
Territory, McCormack said in a  statement  on July 19.  No Benefit  All the same, buying Envestra offers little strategic
benefit to APA, said Ian Myles, a Sydney-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. There’s no immediate opportunity to
accelerate Envestra’s growth because  capital expenditures  are
governed by the regulator, according to Myles. He values
Envestra at A$1.16 a share.  “Doing it just for financial metrics is not as compelling
as doing it with strategic reasons,” he said in a phone
interview. “There will always be a number where it won’t make
economic sense.”  It’s also not clear how much APA might be charged under
change-of-control clauses tied to Envestra borrowings, APA said
in its takeover  proposal . Envestra’s net debt was A$2.19 billion
at the end of 2012, it said in an April  presentation .  Profit at Envestra will jump to A$123 million in 2014 from
A$73.9 million  last year , according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  While APA receives a fee for operating Envestra’s grid -- 3
percent of regulated revenue -- APA says almost all the value is
locked in the target.  “They can see an extraordinary growth profile,” Paul Johnston, an analyst at Royal Bank of Canada in  Melbourne , said
in a phone interview. “It’s likely they will sweeten the
current deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  