-- Eric Holder Decides to Mess With Texas
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-07-28T22:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/eric-holder-decides-to-mess-with-texas.html
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
has declared that, at least when it comes to voting rights, the
U.S.  Supreme Court  is guilty of wishful thinking. He is also
showing both how difficult and how important it is to overcome
that kind of thinking.  It was just last month that a closely divided court,
 reasoning  that voter discrimination in the South wasn’t the
problem it used to be, neutered the requirement that certain
states and counties with a history of such discrimination submit
proposed voting changes to the federal government for approval.
Last week, Holder said the Justice Department would use “every
tool at our disposal to stand against discrimination.”  Meanwhile, in Texas, officials said they will proceed with
a redistricting plan that dilutes Hispanic voting power, and an
aggressive voter-identification law besides. And in North
Carolina, the Republican-controlled Legislature  passed  a bill of
such brazenness that it can be more aptly described as an
attempt to restrict voting procedures rather than reform them.  In  2013 alone , more than 80 bills restricting  voting rights 
have been introduced in 31 states. Meanwhile, the incidence of
actual voter fraud hovers near zero. ( Kansas , site of one of the
first coordinated crackdowns on voting rights, has had more
 documented cases  of UFO sightings than of voter fraud.)  There is a desperate quality to these laws. Texas
Republicans pushed through the legislature a law that allows a
concealed-carry gun permit to be used as voter ID but does not
allow a student ID from a state college. In North Carolina, a
bill imposes a voter-ID requirement even while invalidating
several forms of government- or public-employee ID, including
student IDs or IDs issued by public-assistance agencies. It
reduces early voting and eliminates same-day voter registration,
both of which have been disproportionately favored by the
state’s black voters. It repeals the mandate for high-school
voter-registration drives. And it eliminates a tax deduction.  Wait: Republicans voted to end a tax deduction? Yes, the
bill would end a $2,500 child-dependency tax deduction for
parents in  North Carolina  if their college-enrolled children
vote where they attend school. Because students tend to be at
college in November, when general elections are held, this
amounts to punishing parents if their children vote away from
home.  As the Supreme Court rightly pointed out, such restrictions
are a far cry from the poll taxes, literacy tests and state-sanctioned violence of the Jim Crow era. Yet their
discriminatory effect is still pernicious.  Which brings us back to the Supreme Court’s decision last
month. The pre-June 2013 Voting Rights Act allowed for a kind of
double standard: States with a history of voter discrimination
had to prove that any changes to their voting procedures were
not discriminatory. Now it is up to the plaintiffs, in  Texas  or
any other state, to prove that they are.  Holder said last week that he  will ask  the courts to
essentially put Texas back on probation -- to require that it
get approval beforehand for any changes in its voting laws. The
department will also support a lawsuit by Democrats and civil-rights groups against the state’s redistricting map, which a
federal court panel deemed a product of “discriminatory
purpose.”  This is hardly ideal. The executive branch is by definition
more partisan (still) than the judiciary. At least the double
standard that applied to so many Southern states under the old
Voting Rights Act had the support of Congress and the force of
law. Now the Obama administration’s every attempt to prevent
voter discrimination will become mired in partisan, local and
racial politics.  That doesn’t mean Holder is wrong. The  Justice Department ’s
involvement in the lawsuit against Texas is both welcome and
necessary. Better still would be a Congress, and a  Republican
Party , equally dedicated to protecting the right to vote.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 