-- Teva Plan to Safeguard $4 Billion Drug Endangered by Ruling
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-07-29T20:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/teva-plan-to-safeguard-4-billion-drug-endangered-by-ruling.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (TEVA) ’s plan to switch patients to a longer-acting version of its
Copaxone treatment suffered a setback as a U.S. court ruling
gave the $4 billion drug less than a year of patent protection.  Teva wants to move as many as half of the multiple-sclerosis patients taking daily Copaxone injections to a three-times-weekly version of the medicine. The  U.S. Court of Appeals 
decision to invalidate a 2015 patent may allow generic
competitors such as Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  Momenta
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA)  to lure away patients with cheaper copies
as early as next year, said  Marc Goodman , an analyst at UBS AG.  “This not only moves up the potential generic Copaxone
launch into 2014 but it also doesn’t give Teva much time to
convert patients,” said Goodman, who is based in  New York . The
analyst said he changed his earnings forecast to reflect a
generic competitor by 2014 and a 15 percent patient conversion
instead of a previously forecast 30 percent.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , markets a 20-milligram
Copaxone injection, which generates more than five times the
revenue of its second-best-selling branded drug, Treanda. A
longer-acting, 40-milligram dose of Copaxone was effective in
lowering relapse rates in MS patients compared with a placebo in
a late-stage trial last year.  Extra Year  Because Teva expects the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
to approve the long-acting version by early 2014, the extra year
without generic competition would be key to moving its patients
to the higher dosage.  “Teva wanted to switch a significant portion of its
prescriptions to the 40-milligram dose but that will be de facto
impossible if the market goes generic in May 2014,” said Ori Hershkovitz, a partner at Sphera Funds Management Ltd., a Tel
Aviv-based health-care hedge fund.  Teva’s American depositary receipts  fell  2 percent to
$39.90 at the close in New York. Momenta, which is developing a
generic version with  Novartis AG (NOVN) , gained less than 1 percent
after adding 12 percent to $17.34 on July 26. Mylan Inc., which
is developing a copy with Natco Pharmaceuticals, fell 1 percent
and Natco added 20 percent in Mumbai.  Switching Patients  Teva expects 30 percent to 35 percent of its patients to
switch, Jon Congleton, senior vice president at Teva’s Global
Medicines Group, said in a first-quarter earnings conference
call. Market research done by Teva showed as many as half of all
Copaxone patients would transition to fewer weekly injections,
Congleton said. The newer formulation would have patent
protection through 2030.  Generic-drug makers still face hurdles in getting their
products to the market next year. Teva can seek a review before
the U.S. Supreme Court and the company said it will appeal the
decision. The FDA would need to approve copies of the drug and
Teva says that the regulator should require lengthy clinical
trials not typical for generic medicines because Copaxone is a
complex molecule.  “Since the generics did not receive FDA approval, nor is
there any indication as to when, if at all, such approval would
be received, it is too early to assess if there will be any
impact on Copaxone, and specifically on our launch of Copaxone
40-milligram 3-times-a-week,” Teva said in an e-mailed
statement.  Momenta’s application with the FDA for a generic has been
under review for five years and the regulatory pathway “remains
murky,” said  David Steinberg , a San Francisco-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG. There is a real possibility that a generic to
Copaxone may not emerge for a number of years, said Steinberg,
who has a buy recommendation on Teva.  A generic approval in 2014 is increasingly possible as the
FDA demonstrates more willingness to approve complex drugs, said
Ronny Gal, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Gal
estimated the chances of a generic entrant next year at 50
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  