-- Lew Praises Yellen, Summers While Not Commenting on Fed Chair
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-07-28T13:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/lew-praises-yellen-summers-while-not-commenting-on-fed-chair.html
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said
 Lawrence Summers  and Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen 
are “extraordinarily talented people,” while declining to
comment on whether President Barack Obama might nominate either
of them to lead the Fed.  “We will keep those discussions to the privacy of the Oval
Office,” Lew said on CNN’s “State of the Union” in an
interview airing today, adding that he is friends with both
Yellen and former U.S. Treasury Secretary Summers.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , whose second four-year term
expires Jan. 31, hasn’t indicated whether he will seek or accept
a third term. Obama said last month that the Fed chairman has
stayed in the post “longer than he wanted.”  Obama said in a July 24 interview with the  New York  Times
that his nominee will be someone who embraces the central bank’s
dual mandate to promote price stability and maximum employment,
and he has narrowed his choice “to some extraordinarily
qualified candidates.”  He declined to identify the finalists. A group of
Democratic senators is calling on Obama to nominate Yellen, who
is considered a front-runner for the job along with Summers.  Lew, referring to Yellen and Summers, told CNN that
“they’re both friends and I have great admiration for both of
them.”  “I think they’re both extraordinarily talented people,”
he said.  In an interview with ABC’s “This Week with  George Stephanopoulos ,” Lew said Bernanke “has been an extraordinary
and remains an extraordinary Fed chairman.”  About a third of the 54-member Senate Democratic caucus
signed a letter praising Yellen and encouraging Obama to
nominate her, according to three Senate aides who asked not to
be identified discussing internal matters. The letter, sent July
26 and obtained by  Bloomberg News , doesn’t identify any other
candidate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  