-- Lew Says Congress Must Avoid Last-Minute Drama on Debt Limit
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-07-28T15:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/lew-says-congress-must-avoid-last-minute-drama-on-debt-limit.html
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said
Congress should raise the debt limit without last-minute
brinksmanship and warned Republicans that the U.S. can’t “cut
its way to prosperity.”  “We need to get the debt limit extended in a way that
doesn’t create a crisis,” Lew said in remarks broadcast today
on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “Congress needs to do its job.”  Lew is appearing on news talk shows this weekend as
President  Barack Obama  is giving a series of speeches casting
his differences with congressional Republicans as a struggle
over the future of middle-class families. Obama is making the
case that his proposals for spending on education,
infrastructure and research are essential to help middle-income
Americans.  “Washington has to stop playing these brinksmanship
games,” Lew said. “It’s not about who wins and who loses.”  Speaking on ABC’s “This Week with George Stephanopoulos,”
Lew said Obama “has made crystal clear, he’s not going to
negotiate over the debt limit” and that “Congress can’t let us
default.”  When members of Congress return from their August recess,
they and the president will face several decisions affecting the
economy, including determining federal spending levels and
raising the government’s $16.7 trillion  debt limit . Republican
lawmakers are demanding spending cuts in exchange for raising
the debt ceiling while Obama is arguing that austerity will
stifle the economic recovery.  Economy Focus  Obama is seeking to use the power of his office to return
attention to the economy following his push for a new
immigration law, attempts to block his signature health-care law
and Republican-led investigations into his administration.  Automatic, across-the-board budget cuts of $109 billion
loom with the new government fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1,
after $85 billion in cuts that took effect in March. Obama wants
to end automatic cuts, while the Republican-controlled House has
shown little inclination to take up a compromise to avoid them.
The forced spending cuts, known as sequestration, have been a
drag on the economy.  The “problems” created by sequestration can’t be repaired
“by cutting domestic priorities in order to fund defense,” Lew
said. “That’s unacceptable.”  In May, Lew said the U.S. can use special accounting
measures to stay under the debt ceiling at least until
September. The Bipartisan Policy Center, a nonprofit research
group, said this month the Treasury’s cash on hand will be
exhausted between mid-October and mid-November.  Showdown Threat  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said July
23 that Republicans won’t agree to raise the debt ceiling
without spending cuts, threatening a showdown with Obama.  Other Republicans say they can only agree to fund the
government if the president suspends funding for his health-care
law, known as Obamacare.  “We all know the government is going to get funded,”
Senator Mike Lee, a Republican from  Utah , said today on “Fox
News Sunday.” “The only question is whether it gets funded
with Obamacare or not.”  In the debt ceiling debate two years ago, lawmakers and the
White House battled for months before Obama signed an increase
into law on Aug. 2, 2011, the day the Treasury Department warned
that U.S. borrowing authority would expire.  Standard & Poor’s, which downgraded the U.S. one step to
AA+ in August 2011, changed its outlook last month to “stable”
from “negative.”  Stock-Market Rout  The 2011 downgrade by S&P, the world’s largest credit
rater, contributed to a global stock-market rout. U.S.
government debt lost none of its attraction for investors,
though. Yields on Treasury securities dropped to record lows
rather than going higher after the downgrade. Yields on 10-year
Treasuries dropped 0.74 percentage point in the seven weeks
following the downgrade to a then-record 1.67 percent.  Lew declined to comment on who Obama might nominate to lead
the Federal Reserve. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, whose second
four-year term expires Jan. 31, hasn’t indicated whether he
would seek or accept a third term. Obama said last month that
the Fed chairman has stayed in the post “longer than he
wanted.”  Lew told ABC that Bernanke “has been an extraordinary and
remains an extraordinary Fed chairman.”  Obama said in a July 24 interview with the  New York  Times
that his nominee will be someone who embraces the central bank’s
dual mandate to promote price stability and maximum employment,
and he has narrowed his choice “to some extraordinarily
qualified candidates.”  Vice Chairman  He declined to say who the finalists are. A group of
Democratic senators is calling on Obama to nominate Fed Vice
Chairman Janet Yellen, who is considered a front-runner for the
job along with former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers.  About a third of the 54-member Senate Democratic caucus
signed a letter praising Yellen and encouraging Obama to
nominate her, according to three Senate aides who asked not to
be identified discussing internal matters. The letter, sent July
26 and obtained by Bloomberg News, doesn’t identify any other
candidate.  Lew told  CNN ’s “ State of the Union ” that he’s friends
with both Yellen and Summers and has “great admiration for both
of them.”  “They’re both extraordinarily talented people,” he said.  Lew reiterated his view that the “core” of the U.S.
economy is growing, though not as much as he would like.  ‘Do More’  “We need to do more,” Lew said. “The president’s laid
out a vision of the things we need to do.  And we need to get
outside of the kind of inside-Washington debate about who’s
winning and who’s losing, and deal with the challenges that
middle-class families want us to deal with.”  “We cannot cut our way to prosperity,” he said.  The jobless  rate  is 7.6 percent, close to a four-year low,
and down from 10 percent in October 2009. Payrolls rose by
195,000 workers in June, exceeding the 165,000 gain projected by
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The number of long-term unemployed, or those out of work
for 27 weeks or more, was 4.3 million in June. That’s down from
a high of 6.7 million in April 2010, though higher than the 2.7
million in January 2009, when Obama took office.  Record Highs  Support from central banks and better-than-estimated
earnings have driven the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up as much
as 151 percent from its March 2009 low to record highs. The
benchmark gauge for U.S. equities increased 0.1 percent July 26
to 1,691.65, near the record close of 1,695.53 four days
earlier.  The Fed has said economic data will determine the timing
and pace of any reduction in its bond-buying. The central bank
will start trimming its purchases in September, according to
half of 54 economists in a July 18-22 survey by Bloomberg News.
Bernanke said July 18 it is “way too early to make any
judgment” as to whether policy makers will start tapering
purchases in September. The Fed’s Open Market Committee next
meets to review policy on July 30-31.  Growth in the first half of 2013 was restrained by the
effect of tax increases and government budget cuts, which is
likely to wane. Gross domestic product rose at a 1 percent
annualized rate last quarter, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey ahead of Commerce Department data due on
July 31. The economy grew at a 1.8 percent pace in the first
quarter.  In June, Fed officials forecast that the U.S. will grow 2.3
percent to 2.6 percent this year and 3 percent to 3.5 percent in
2014.  Highest Level  Consumer confidence  unexpectedly increased in July to the
highest level in six years as Americans’ views of their finances
improved. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index
of consumer  sentiment  advanced to 85.1 in July, exceeding
estimates, from 84.1 at the end of June.  Americans may also be feeling wealthier as real estate
prices climb and stocks hold near record highs. Home values in
the U.S. increased 12.2 percent in May from a year earlier, the
largest advance since February 2006, according to data this
month from  Irvine , California-based CoreLogic Inc.  Lew reiterated that there was “no evidence of political
involvement” in the Internal Revenue Service scrutiny of Tea
Party groups.  An audit in May by the IRS inspector general showed that
the agency singled out Tea Party groups that sought tax-exempt
status, sparking a controversy that has cost IRS executives
their jobs and led to a criminal investigation.  “The president’s been clear and I’ve been clear that what
happened there was unacceptable,” Lew said. “It was extremely
bad judgment.  And it’s just unacceptable for groups right or
left to be targeted because of their political views.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  