-- Michael Dell Says LBO Vote Method Unfair as He Pushes Bid
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-07-29T13:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/michael-dell-rules-out-increase-in-takeover-bid.html
Michael Dell , in comments that were
by turns unbowed and resigned, said he won’t raise his buyout
offer for  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and conceded that he had agreed to a method
of counting shareholder votes that “does not make sense.”  The Dell founder and partner  Silver Lake  Management LLC
last week raised their offer by a dime to $13.75 a share, or
$24.6 billion. The increase was contingent on the special
committee of the computer maker’s board changing a rule that
unvoted shares be tallied as opposing the deal, a provision that
has so far thwarted the bidders from winning approval.  The conditional increase of $150 million to $24.6 billion
“is substantial,” especially since “no other party was
willing to pay more than $13.65 per share” for all of the
shares of the  Round Rock , Texas-based company, Dell said
yesterday in an e-mail. “This is our best and final offer.”  The 48-year-old billionaire agreed to answer questions by
e-mail as he and Silver Lake try to salvage their deal, which
has been opposed by  investors  including  Carl Icahn  and
Southeastern Asset Management Inc. The special committee
overseeing the sale has already adjourned the vote twice as the
buyers seek to round up enough votes.  A majority of unaffiliated shares -- those excluding
Michael Dell’s 15.6 percent stake -- is needed to win passage.
The next vote is scheduled for Aug. 2.  Voting Standard  “With the benefit of hindsight, I believe it is clear that
the voting standard in our contract does not make sense,”
Michael Dell wrote. “It provided the opportunity for someone
who had never been a shareholder of our company to come in and
organize a minority blocking group, even though a majority of
the unaffiliated shares voting on the transaction would like to
accept it.”  He was referring to Icahn, the 77-year-old activist
investor who built an 8.7 percent  position  in the stock after
the LBO was announced. He has teamed with Southeastern, a
longtime Dell investor. Icahn most recently has pressed for a
$14-a-share stock buyback that would keep the company public.  Icahn has threatened a proxy fight if Dell’s offer is voted
down. He would have to install his own slate of  directors  to
forge ahead with his recapitalization plan.  Icahn and Southeastern Asset Management, in an open letter
today, urged the special committee of Dell’s board not to change
the voting rules. A representative of the special committee
wasn’t immediately reachable.  David Frink , a company spokesman,
declined to comment.  Absentee Ballots  Dell fell 1 percent to $12.81 at 9:39 a.m. in  New York .  As of early July, investors opposed to the original $13.65-a-share transaction owned more than 20 percent of Dell shares,
according to a report from shareholder adviser Glass Lewis & Co.
About 27 percent of shares -- not including Michael Dell’s
holdings -- haven’t been voted, the buyers said last week.  Michael Dell said in his e-mailed comments that to count
absentee ballots as “no” votes has played into Icahn’s hands.
He reiterated his opposition to recapitalization plans such as
Icahn’s, under which Dell would borrow to buy back its own
shares.  Dell, who is chairman and chief executive officer of the
company, vowed to stay on if his buyout plan founders. If Icahn
does get his plan through, the CEO held out the possibility that
he may refrain from tendering his shares. In that case, he
wrote, his stake in the company would climb well above Icahn’s,
to 42 percent.  ‘Most Fair’  The special committee is open to changing the voting rules
if the buyers boost their offer to at least $14 a share, people
familiar with the matter said last week. While saying $13.75 is
his final bid, Michael Dell said changing the rules in a way
that would bolster his chances was the right thing to do.  “In my view, the voting standard we have proposed is the
most fair standard regardless of the price,” he wrote. “The
outcome should be decided by the unaffiliated shares that vote,
not by shares that don’t vote.”  The executive acknowledged that he may not get his way.  “As I have said before, so long as the majority of the
unaffiliated shares voting on the transaction get to make this
decision, I am at peace either way and I will honor their
decision,” he said.  Dell said, as he has since he made his offer, that he can
better carry out his agenda for reviving Dell outside the lens
of public ownership. That agenda includes bankrolling new
enterprise-software products and tablets, expanding in  emerging
markets , improving  customer service  and bolstering the core
personal-computer business.  “We have been trying to pursue a number of these
strategies as a public company,” he said. “But I believe we
are rate-limited as a public company, given the need to take
into account the impact of anything we do on our public stock
price” and the impact of that on Dell’s employees and
customers, he said.  “I am seeking to take Dell private because I think it’s
the right thing for the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  