-- Moelis, Rothschild Take Lead on Omnicom-Publicis Merger
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   a n d   M a t t h e w   M o n k s
-- 2013-07-29T14:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/moelis-rothschild-take-lead-on-omnicom-publicis-merger.html
For bankers, the merger of  Publicis
Groupe SA (PUB)  and  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)  was notable for what it didn’t
involve: the participation of a single large investment bank.  Instead, New York-based boutique Moelis & Co. and
Rothschild, the storied Paris-based merger adviser, worked with
Omnicom and Publicis respectively, shutting out their bigger
competitors. They stand to reap as much as $70 million in fees,
according to New York-based researcher Freeman & Co.  The transaction, which will create an advertising empire
with a market value of more than $30 billion, was a rare example
of a major deal that didn’t draw in large banks like  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Deutsche Bank AG. Proponents of smaller
firms say their focus on merger advice lets them provide
impartial counsel to corporate executives, while bankers at
large institutions say their suite of financing products and
broad role in the financial markets provide a key advantage.  “The reason we didn’t add more advisers is because we
didn’t need them at the end of the day,” Omnicom Chief
Executive Officer John Wren said at a press conference in Paris
yesterday. “Maurice and I settled many of the issues,” he
said, referring to Publicis CEO  Maurice Levy .  Structured as a merger of equals, the two companies’
combination didn’t require the issuance of debt or new equity,
which meant the financial muscle of large banks wasn’t
necessary. Levy also credited Moelis and Rothschild for keeping
the deal from leaking until July 26, when  Bloomberg News 
reported the discussions.  Boutique-Friendly  The structure of the Publicis-Omnicom deal -- a stock-based
transaction without a big financing component -- made it
boutique-friendly, said  Jeff Davis , managing director of the
financial institutions group of Mercer Capital, a financial
advisory firm in Memphis,  Tennessee .  Advertising companies and other services businesses also
typically don’t need as much debt as manufacturers or other
companies that deal with physical goods, he said.  “One or both companies are not massive borrowers from
banks,” Davis said. “The advisory-focused boutique that
doesn’t have a balance sheet to deploy has an advantage in a
transaction like this.”  While the deal is a boon for both firms, “investment
banking and financing are joined at the hip in most
transactions,” Davis said. “The investment banks that have the
big balance sheet to use as part of the transaction are hardly
going to fade into the sunset.”  Third Deal  The deal is the third large transaction in which Moelis has
been involved this year. The firm, founded in 2007 by UBS AG
veteran Ken Moelis, also advised HJ Heinz Co. in its $28.8
billion takeover by a group including  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  The bank also worked with Life Technologies Inc.
on its pending $13.6 billion acquisition by  Thermo-Fisher
Scientific Inc. (TMO)   Moelis drew on bankers Geoff Austin, Andrew Haber and
Benoit Renon, alongside the bank’s founder. At Rothschild, sole
adviser to Publicis, the French company worked with Gregoire
Chertok, Sebastien Proto and Francois Wat.  Moelis is ranked 10th among takeover advisers globally this
year based on combined value, working on 42 deals worth $75.4
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It and Lazard
Ltd. are the only members of the top 10 that aren’t large global
investment banks.  Rothschild is ranked 13th, advising on more than 100
transactions worth $60.8 billion, the data show. Before the
Publicis deal, this year Rothschild advised on Joh A Benckiser
SE’s $10 billion takeover of coffeemaker  DE Master Blenders 1753
NV. (DE)  The company is the heir to the Rothschild family banking
dynasty, which has its roots in the early 19th century and was
dubbed “the world’s banker” by Harvard University historian
 Niall Ferguson .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  