-- Tokio Marine Targets Asean for Expansion Abroad: Southeast Asia
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2013-07-29T09:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/tokio-marine-targets-asean-for-expansion-abroad-southeast-asia.html
Tokio Marine Holdings Inc. (8766) , Japan’s
second-largest non-life insurer, is seeking to expand in
Southeast  Asia  as Japan’s shrinking population erodes its
domestic market.  The insurer plans to expand in  life insurance , automobile
coverage, reinsurance and asset management, President Tsuyoshi
Nagano said. The Tokyo-based company will increase its presence
both organically and through possible takeovers, he said,
declining to elaborate.  Japanese insurers are being lured by the region’s growth
potential as they grapple with an aging society and shrinking
population at home. Tokio Marine is expecting premium income
from casualty and life insurance businesses in Asia to increase
19 percent and 9.2 percent respectively this business year,
according to its business plan released in May.  “Asia definitely has potential for growth, given the
region’s economic outlook,” Nagano, 60, who became the
president in June, said in an interview in  Tokyo . “Asean
nations will be the place we will be focusing.”  The 10-member  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  or
Asean includes Indonesia,  Thailand , Malaysia,  Singapore , Brunei,
the Philippines,  Cambodia ,  Laos , Myanmar and Vietnam. Formed in
1967, it has a combined gross domestic product of more than $1
trillion. Asean nations are expected to expand 5.6 percent in
2013, compared with 0.6 percent shrinkage in the euro area, the
 International Monetary Fund  forecast July 9.  Tokio Marine  shares  dropped 1.1 percent to 3,175 yen at the
close in Tokyo, the lowest close in a month. The decline pared
the gain this year to 33 percent, compared with the 31 percent
advance by the benchmark Topix index.  Regional Attraction  Companies around the world have announced acquisitions of
about $7 billion of insurance assets in  Southeast Asia  over the
past two years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co., Japan’s third-biggest life
insurer, last week said it agreed to buy a 15 percent stake in
closely held Thai Life Insurance Pcl to meet rising demand in
the Southeast Asian nation.  Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co. (8750)  said in
June it will acquire 40 percent of Indonesia’s PT Panin
Financial Tbk for 3.3 trillion rupiah ($323 million).  “The benefits of expansion primarily revolve around growth
potential and risk diversification,” said Makarim Salman, an
analyst at Jefferies Group LLC in Tokyo. “The challenges are
going to include making sure they don’t overpay, foreign
exchange risks, political risks and also being able to exercise
sufficient guidance even in the case of minority stakes.”  Stable Growth  Salman  rates  Tokio Marine’s stock a buy with a target price
of 4,825 yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In the life insurance business, Tokio Marine has started to
record “stable profit growth” in Singapore and  Malaysia ,
Nagano said, adding that the insurer aims to establish similar
growth in Indonesia and India. For the casualty business, the
company wants to expand the existing operation in countries
including  Hong Kong , Thailand and the Philippines, he said.  The challenge in Asia is to find “reasonable and good
deals” with some countries having regulatory hurdles that force
foreign companies to seek partnerships locally, Nagano said.  “Acquisitions will be a possible option as a means for
expansion,” he said.  In December 2011, Tokio Marine announced the $2.7 billion
acquisition of Delphi Financial Group Inc. after buying
Philadelphia Consolidated Holding Corp. in 2008 for about $4.7
billion. The two purchases were the biggest by a Japanese
insurer since 2001, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tokio Marine  in May  forecast  net income for the full year
through March 2014 to rise 31 percent to 170 billion yen. It
expects premium income from casualty insurance and life
insurance businesses in Asia to rise to 95 billion yen and 56
billion yen this fiscal year.  “It’s important for a Japanese insurer like us to lay eggs
in different parts of the world given the potential for natural
disaster risks at home,” Nagano said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  