-- Orascom Construction Set to Delist in Egypt as Buyout Accepted
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-07-28T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/orascom-construction-set-to-delist-in-egypt-as-buyout-accepted.html
Orascom Construction  Industries,
Egypt’s biggest publicly-traded company, moved closer to
delisting in Cairo after holders of 89 percent of shares
accepted a buyout offer. The stock sank the most since March.  Orascom’s parent  OCI NV (OCI)  closed a monthlong offer yesterday
to buy the 50.2 million shares of the Cairo-based company for
255 Egyptian pounds ($36.41) each or swap them for those of the
Amsterdam-based fertilizer maker. Based on the results
announced by the Egyptian Exchange yesterday, 1.6 percent of 
Orascom Construction’s shares are now available to trade in 
Egypt, according to a OCI statement, below the 5 percent 
minimum required for listing. Most of the London-listed stock 
has been consolidated into OCI.  Orascom, which debuted in Cairo 14 years ago, grew to a
market value of 50.3 billion pounds yesterday and had a 25
percent weighting on the benchmark EGX 30 Index.  Egypt ’s markets
regulator gave OCI’s buyout offer the go-ahead after Orascom
Construction reached a 7 billion-pound ($1 billion) agreement
with the government in April to settle back taxes. The stock
fell 4.1 percent, the most since March 14, to 240.6 pounds and
is down 4.7 percent this year.  “It looks like Orascom Construction will not continue to
be listed in Egypt,” Allen Sandeep, director of research at
Cairo-based Naeem Holding, said by phone. “The company could
seek to maintian its listing here since Egypt is still the
biggest contributer to OCI’s top and bottom lines and
considering the recent changes in the political landscape.”  Egypt Investment  Billionaire Naguib Sawiris, the brother of OCI Chief
Executive Officer  Nassef Sawiris , said July 5 in an interview
with Bloomberg TV that his family would “resume investing in
Egypt” after the military ousted Islamist President Mohamed Mursi. OCI’s head of investor relations Omar Darwazah declined
to comment when contacted by phone.  OCI shares, trading on Euronext Amsterdam, have climbed 28
percent since Mursi’s ouster July 3 to $34.5 on July 26.  Holders of 29.2 million Orascom Construction shares
accepted the cash offer and owners of 15.7 million shares
accepted swap offer, the bourse said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. OCI said yesterday it expects to hold 97.4 percent of
Orascom Construction once settlement concludes within five 
business days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  