-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Cohen’s Fortune, Frat Hazing, Boomer Sex
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-07-28T05:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/most-read-on-bloomberg-cohen-s-fortune-frat-hazing-boomer-sex.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. SAC’S Cohen May Lose Fortune and Hedge Fund, Not His Freedom  July 26 (Bloomberg) --  Steven A. Cohen , founder of a $14
billion hedge fund indicted in what the U.S. calls an
unprecedented insider trading scheme, faces a future without a
fund or a multi-billion dollar fortune. On the other hand, he
won’t be behind bars.  2. Mother of Golf Prodigy in Hazing Death Defied by FratPAC  July 24 (Bloomberg) -- Harrison Kowiak was 19 years old
when he died after schoolmates pummeled him on a pitch-black
field in Hickory,  North Carolina . It was part of a fraternity
hazing.  3. Boomer Sex With Dementia Foreshadowed in Nursing Home Torn
Apart  July 22 (Bloomberg) -- At 8:30 p.m. on Christmas Day 2009,
nurse Tiffany Gourley was called to a room at the Windmill Manor
nursing home in Coralville,  Iowa . She found a 78-year-old male
resident who had just had intercourse with an 87-year-old woman.
The man, a former college professor, was divorced. The woman, a
retired secretary, was married. Both had dementia.  4. Bank Commodity Trading in Jeopardy as Fed Reviews Policies  July 22 (Bloomberg) -- JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are among lenders whose commodity-trading is in jeopardy as the Federal Reserve reconsiders
letting banks ship oil and store metal.  5. Facebook Surges After Rising Sales Quiet Mobile-Ad Skeptics  July 25 (Bloomberg) -- Facebook Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg ’s decision last year to bet big on
mobile software is paying off, with sales of ads on wireless
devices now on track to surpass revenue from desktop computers.  6. Sex in Geriatrics Sets Hebrew Home Apart as Boomers Seize
Days  July 23 (Bloomberg) -- The nurse was frantic. She’d just
seen two elderly people having sex in a room at the Hebrew Home
at Riverdale,  New York . She asked Daniel A. Reingold, then the
home’s executive vice president, what she should do.  7. World’s Best Restaurant Has One-Year Wait, Dancing Ice Cream  July 23 (Bloomberg) -- The day El Celler de Can Roca was
named World’s Best Restaurant, its website got 12 million hits.  8. S&P 500 Declines as Treasuries Slip on Earnings, Fed
Speculation  July 23 (Bloomberg) -- The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
as investors weighed corporate earnings while Treasuries
declined for the first time in three days amid speculation on
when the  Federal Reserve  may scale back its asset purchases.  9. SEC’s Star Witness Says Tourre Misled Her About Paulson’s
Role  July 23 (Bloomberg) -- The star witness in the Securities
and Exchange Commission’s civil fraud case against Fabrice
Tourre told jurors that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. misled her into
helping construct a doomed investment that the Paulson & Co.
hedge fund was betting would fail.  10. U.S. Stocks, Treasuries Rise Amid Speculation Over Fed
Stimulus  July 25 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks rose and Treasuries
reversed earlier declines amid speculation over when the Federal
Reserve may reduce its stimulus measures. The dollar fell while
gold advanced.  COLUMNS  1. Warren’s Mistake About Wall Street Risk-Taking: William D.
Cohan  July 22 (Bloomberg) -- When U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren,
the former law-school professor and self-appointed scourge of
 Wall Street , gets her history terribly wrong -- and proposes a
new law based on that lack of understanding -- there must be a
reckoning.  2. Reagan’s Arrival in Tokyo Won’t Cheer Japanese: William Pesek  July 26 (Bloomberg) -- The Ronald Reagan moment Japan
investors have long fantasized about has finally arrived.  3. Whitey Bulger Case Puts  Boston  Mythology on Trial:  Noah
Feldman   July 22 (Bloomberg) -- You know something is a big deal in
Boston when it steals headlines from allegations that the  New
England Patriots ’ only healthy tight end committed multiple
murders.  4. Obama Looks to His Legacy, Fudges His Past: Caroline Baum  July 24 (Bloomberg) -- Eight years ago, then-Senator  Barack
Obama  delivered the commencement address at Knox College in
Galesburg,  Illinois . He joked with the graduates about being
asked by a reporter what his place in history would be.  5. Winning Buffett’s Money Won’t Be Easy for  India : William
Pesek  July 23 (Bloomberg) -- India has long been viewed as a
value investor’s dream: rapid growth, 1.2 billion people pining
for a taste of globalization, and underdeveloped industries ripe
for turnarounds. So it surprised few when the genre’s guru,
 Warren Buffett , placed a bet on the world’s ninth-biggest
economy.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Security Camera Captures Spanish Train Crash Killing 77   July 25 (Bloomberg) -- A security camera captured the train
crash last night near the northwestern Spanish city of Santiago
de Compostela that killed at least 77 people after it derailed
at 8:41 p.m. local time.  2. Spanish Train Crash Kills 77 People After Derailment  July 25 (Bloomberg) -- A train derailment near the
northwestern Spanish city of Santiago de Compostela killed at
least 77 people, the highest death toll in a rail incident since
the 2004  Madrid  bombing.  3. Nose Gear Collapses as Southwest Jet Lands at LaGuardia  July 22 (Bloomberg) -- A Southwest Airlines Co. jet’s nose
gear collapsed as it landed at  LaGuardia Airport  in New York,
the  Federal Aviation Administration  said.  4. Kate, William Leave London Hospital With Royal Baby  July 23 (Bloomberg) --  Prince William , his wife Kate and
their new baby left St. Mary’s Hospital in central  London  today,
a day after the birth of the boy who becomes the third in line
to the British throne.  5. Town Crier Announces Birth of Son to William, Kate  July 22 (Bloomberg) -- A town crier outside St. Mary’s
Hospital in London announces the birth of the son of Prince
William and his wife Kate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  