-- Toyota Outsold by GM Signals Long-Term Japan Demand Slump
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   M a   J i e
-- 2013-07-28T04:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/toyota-outsold-by-gm-signals-long-term-japan-demand-slump.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  is facing a  Japan 
problem.  The company, based in Toyota City, Japan, was outsold by
 General Motors Co. (GM)  for the first time in six quarters, as
deliveries in Japan extended their decline after government
incentives for fuel-efficient models expired last year.  Toyota and its subsidiaries sold 2.48 million vehicles
during the quarter ended June, just shy of the 2.49 million that
Detroit-based GM disclosed earlier this month. Japan’s largest
automaker sold 8.4 percent fewer vehicles in its home market
last quarter.  Toyota’s decline in Japan car sales shows a rare weak spot
for a company that’s  forecasting  its biggest profit in six years
and whose  stock  has gained 54 percent this year. Japanese
vehicle sales have fallen steadily since the asset bubble burst
in 1989, with temporary boosts from government subsidies.  “The decline in Japan will continue,” said Jun Nokuo, an
analyst with researcher R.L. Polk & Co. in  Tokyo . “It is an
aging society and the population is shrinking. At the same time,
the popularity of cars is declining because public
transportation is easy to use.”  Toyota’s sales in the first six months of this year dropped
1.2 percent to 4.91 million units. GM sold 4.85 million vehicles
in the first half and Volkswagen delivered 4.7 million,
according to the companies.  10 Million  Toyota has been projecting since late December that sales
will climb to almost 10 million units -- a milestone no
automaker has ever breached -- in 2013.  Japan’s largest manufacturer has an ever bigger buffer in
the yen, whose decline has been bolstering the value of Japanese
exports. Toyota, which reports  earnings  on Aug. 2, probably saw
profit last quarter surge 48 percent to the highest in more than
five years, according to the average analyst estimate compiled
by Bloomberg.  The yen has weakened more than 12 percent against the
dollar this year and last week traded at 100 versus the
greenback. The Japanese currency may weaken to 105 in the fourth
quarter, according to the median of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Separately, Toyota said July 26 it will further expand its
Princeton, Indiana, auto-assembly plant, investing $30 million
to boost Highlander sport-utility vehicle production by a
further 15,000 units a year from 2014. The plant will also hire
200 more workers, said Carri Chandler, a spokeswoman said.  Price Cuts  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which on July 25 reported a 14 percent
increase in profit, has taken advantage of favorable exchange
rates by cutting prices of seven models in the U.S., including
its top-selling Altima sedan. Nissan, Japan’s second-largest
carmaker, saw deliveries surge 20 percent last quarter.  Toyota has resisted following Nissan’s price cuts and saw
its sales in the country rise by 3.7 percent -- less than half
the pace of the industry -- and its U.S. market share fell to
the lowest in five quarters, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  At GM, 18 new or refreshed vehicles are being brought into
showrooms this year, transforming its lineup into one of the
market’s newest from one of the oldest. One of the earliest new
offerings, the 2014 Impala, was rated by  Consumer Reports  as the
best sedan on the market -- a first for a GM U.S. automaker in
at least 20 years.  The product push is part of Chief Executive Officer Dan
Akerson’s efforts to boost North American profit margins to 10
percent, stem European losses and increase China sales to 5
million, all by mid-decade.  GM’s rise to the top of the global industry capped a week
in which the maker of Chevrolet cars and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  posted
earnings that beat analyst estimates.  China Market  In China, where a territorial dispute led to a consumer
backlash that cut demand for Japanese products last year, Toyota
continued to lose market share to GM and Volkswagen. Toyota’s
deliveries climbed 0.6 percent last quarter, versus GM’s 12
percent and Volkswagen’s 16 percent, according to figures
reported by the companies.  Demand for Japanese products in  China , the world’s largest
auto market, is recovering from last year and Toyota is
targeting this year’s deliveries to rise to at least 900,000
units, up about 7 percent from 2012.  In  Europe , where auto demand is slumping to its lowest
level in two decades, sales of Toyota and Lexus cars last
quarter were little changed from a year earlier, reaching
215,734 units. That helped the company keep its market share at
about 4.5 percent, according to Toyota.  Toyota, GM  In 2008, Toyota ended GM’s 77-year reign as the world’s
largest automaker, holding on to the top annual sales spot until
2011, when it surrendered the title after production was
disrupted by natural disasters in Japan and  Thailand . Sales
rebounded in 2012, allowing Toyota to deliver 9.75 million units
and regain its global No. 1 title as the recession receded,
while the carmaker added products and was spared from
disruptions from natural disasters.  “The fight between GM, Toyota and VW will be long and hard
fought,” said Alec Gutierrez, senior analyst at Kelley Blue
Book. “It will be the manufacturer that is best able to deliver
high quality, affordable, fuel-efficient transportation to the
masses that will ultimately own the global sales race.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  