-- Pope’s Mass Draws 3 Million to Copacabana to End Youth Day
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-07-28T17:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/pope-s-mass-draws-3-million-to-copacabana-to-end-youth-day.html
Pope Francis celebrated Mass with
3 million people on Rio de Janeiro’s Copacabana beach and told
his flock to set out together to evangelize.  People from nations across the globe covered the beach
after spending the night camped out for the Mass.  Brazil ’s
President  Dilma Rousseff , her Argentine counterpart Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and Bolivia’s leader  Evo Morales 
were among the millions in attendance at today’s Mass that
concluded World Youth Day, whose theme was “Go and make
disciples of all nations,” organizers of the event said in an
e-mailed response to questions. Francis told his faithful that
he is personally counting on them to spread God’s word.  “There are no borders, no limits to where Jesus sends
us,” Francis said. “He sends us to evangelize to everyone, and
not just those who appear closest, most open, and most
welcoming. It’s for everyone. Do not have fear.”  The share of Latin Americans who are Catholic fell to 72
percent in 2010 from 90 percent a century earlier, according to
a March report from the Pew Research Center. Evangelicals, part
of the Protestant movement, made up 22 percent of Brazil’s
population in the 2010 census compared with 15 percent a decade
earlier.  Francis’ visit to Brazil marked his first trip abroad since
becoming pope earlier this year. The gathering in  Rio de Janeiro 
was smaller than that of the 1995 World Youth Day in
 Philippines , which drew 4 million people, according to
organizers.  During today’s Mass, the pontiff said that the next World
Youth Day will be held in Krakow,  Poland , in 2016. A group of
Polish attendees burst into jubilation, jumping up and down and
hugging one another. It will be Poland’s second World Youth Day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at   asoliani@bloomberg.net  