-- Rockwood to Sell Clay-Additives Unit to Altana for $635 Million
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-07-29T11:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/rockwood-to-sell-clay-additives-unit-to-altana-for-635-million.html
Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) , the world’s
largest producer of lithium products, said it will sell its
clay-based additives business to  Germany ’s Altana AG for $635
million.  The unit, which makes additives used in products such as
industrial coatings and household-care products, had net sales
of $191.4 million last year, Princeton, New Jersey-based
Rockwood Holdings said yesterday in a statement.  Rockwood Holdings agreed to sell its German ceramics unit
CeramTec to Cinven Ltd. for 1.49 billion euros ($1.98 billion)
last month to focus on its metal business and return cash to
shareholders. In February, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Seifi Ghasemi said he was exploring options for three of the
company’s five units.  The sale to Altana “is another step forward in the
implementation of our long term business strategy to maximize
 shareholder value ,” Ghasemi said in yesterday’s statement.  The deal is expected to close during the fourth quarter,
Rockwood said.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  is Rockwood’s financial adviser and
Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP and Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP are
its legal advisers.  Altana, in a separate statement, said the acquisition
brings growth opportunities and that it will expand the acquired
business in  Asia . Sales are expected to reach 1.9 billion euros
with the acquisition, up from more than 1.7 billion euros last
year, according to the statement.  The unit employs about 340 workers at four sites in the
U.S., U.K. and Germany.  Previous Bid  Wesel, Germany-based Altana is owned by billionaire Susanne Klatten. Altana was looking at buying parts of Rockwood after it
abandoned a bid for the whole company in 2008.  “There are parts that interest us and parts that don’t
interest us,” Chief Executive Officer Matthias Wolfgruber, said
in an interview in April at Altana’s headquarters. “When a
specialty chemicals asset comes on the market, we will look at
it and if we have an interest we will join the bidding.”  Shares of Rockwood Holdings fell 69 cents to $66.09 in  New
York  trading on July 26. The stock is up 34 percent year to
date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  