-- Rudd Revives Poll Support for Labor Ahead of Australian Election
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-07-28T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/rudd-erases-labor-s-support-deficit-as-australian-election-looms.html
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd , who must call an election this year, has erased his ruling
 Labor party ’s popularity deficit with voters since returning as
leader, according to a national poll.  Labor and the Tony Abbott-led Liberal-National opposition
are split 50-50 on a two-party preferred basis, according to a
Galaxy poll published in the Sunday Telegraph newspaper
yesterday. That compares with a two-point deficit four weeks ago
and a 10-point gap on June 11-13, before Rudd successfully
challenged  Julia Gillard  for the leadership.  The poll shows Rudd, who made a surprise visit to
Australian troops in  Afghanistan  at the weekend, has gained
ground with voters previously disillusioned with Labor’s
infighting and policies on carbon trading and asylum seekers.
His minority government, which must hold elections before Nov.
30, will probably this week outline fiscal strategy when it
revises forecasts for the world’s 12th-largest economy.  “Since Rudd’s re-emergence as leader the race has
tightened,” said Stephen Stockwell, a political analyst and
Griffith University professor of journalism and communications
in  Brisbane . “The reason why the election hasn’t been called is
because Labor still isn’t ahead in the polls and it wants to use
the window of time is has to make up that ground.”  Primary support for Labor under Rudd has also increased,
according to the  Galaxy poll . On the question of which party
voters would support  in  the lower house, 40 percent named Labor,
up two points from the previous poll. The coalition remained on
44 percent and the Greens fell 1 point to 9 percent.  ‘No Rush’  Rudd will hold the election in September, the Sunday
Telegraph said yesterday, without citing sources. Deputy Prime
Minister Anthony Albanese said on July 27 there was “no rush”
to call an election. The business community and other
Australians want a ballot now, according to Abbott.  “The people’s choice can’t come soon enough for our
country,” Abbott told reporters in Sydney yesterday. “Let the
people decide.”  Rudd, who defeated Australia’s first female prime minister
in a June 26 leadership ballot, on July 27 touched down in Tarin
Kowt, located in southern Afghanistan’s Uruzgan province, with
his wife Therese Rein for an unannounced three-hour visit.  ‘About Time’  “It’s about time we brought you back,” Rudd told
Australian troops. The Tarin Kowt base is scheduled to be closed
by the end of the year, with 1,000 soldiers due to leave the
war-torn nation.  Treasurer  Chris Bowen  is preparing to release a fiscal and
economic statement that will outline the government’s budget
position. The government is committed to return the budget to
surplus by the 2016-17 financial year, Bowen told reporters in
Sydney July 26.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has reduced borrowing costs
seven times -- for a total of 2 percentage points -- since
November 2011 as the local dollar’s strength dragged on growth
and a mining investment boom crests. Falling  tax revenue 
prompted the government in December to ditch its promise to
return the budget to surplus last financial year.  “Global developments are placing Australia on the cusp of
an important economic transition,” Treasurer Chris Bowen said
in his weekly economic note yesterday. “With the slowing of
 China ’s investment-driven growth,  Australia ’s mining investment
boom is drawing to a close.”  ‘Stop the Boats’  Rudd, 55, is toughening his government’s stance against
asylum seekers coming to Australia by boat, after the number of
people attempting to make the perilous journey increased.  Australia announced July 19 it will refuse entry to such
arrivals and send them to  Papua New Guinea  in a bid to defuse an
issue that’s eroded voter support amid pledges by Abbott, 55, to
“stop the boats.”  According to the Galaxy poll, 40 percent of voters said
Labor’s policy regarding the handling of asylum seekers was
better, with the coalition garnering 38 percent.  Rudd announced July 16 that Australia will move to a
floating carbon price on July 1, 2014, which is one year earlier
than previously scheduled. Abbott, in contrast, has vowed a
“blood oath” to dismantle Labor’s emissions-trading program.  Asked which party would be better at tackling  climate
change , 45 percent of voters surveyed by Galaxy named Labor,
with 31 percent choosing the coalition.  Changing Rules  Rudd has also won a bid to change the rules and give
Labor’s rank and file members more of a say in electing the
party’s leadership since returning to the top job. The former
diplomat has accused Abbott, a Rhodes scholar, of being too
negative and lacking positive policies for Australia.  “What we have seen over the last month is a fundamental
change in the political dialogue in this country,” Minister for
Innovation, Industry, Science and Research  Kim Carr  said in a
Channel Ten interview yesterday, referring to Rudd’s return.  On the question of which of the two party leaders had the
best vision for the future, 46 percent said Rudd and 36 percent
named Abbott in the Galaxy poll, which was conducted July 23-25
among 1,015 voters across the nation, the Telegraph said. The
paper’s website didn’t give a margin for error.  The two-party preferred measure is designed to gauge which
party is more likely to form a government under Australia’s
preferential voting system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  