-- Samsung and S&C Electric to Develop U.K. Power Storage
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-07-29T11:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/samsung-to-develop-u-k-energy-storage-project-with-s-c-electric.html
(Corrects to remove reference to Samsung Electronics Co.
in first paragraph.)  Samsung SDI (006400)  Co., a maker of  lithium-ion batteries , and S&C Electric Co. will develop an  energy
storage  project in the U.K. as authorities spur work on an
electric grid that can handle more renewables.  Samsung SDI will supply lithium-ion batteries at a
substation in Bedfordshire,  England , said Andrew Jones, the
managing director of S&C Electric Company Europe Ltd. The 18.7
million-pound ($28.6 million) project will store as much as 10
megawatt-hours of power.  The venture will help Britain’s efforts to develop the
commercial-scale energy storage it needs to add wind and solar
plants, whose power flows are intermittent. The government
garnered criticism from the Electricity Storage Network industry
group, which has saids Britain is not providing incentives for
the technology developed by companies including  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)   “It’s the only potentially green technology that does not
have a subsidy, which we’re trying to lobby the government on,”
Jones said by phone. “This is an easy way to add capacity into
the network.”  The technology may save as much as 300 million pounds a
year if 2 gigawatts of storage is installed by 2020, according
to the Electricity Storage Network. The technology is still at
the demonstration phase.  U.K. Power Networks Holdings Ltd., the network operator, is
leading the project at its Leighton Buzzard primary substation.
The battery will charge during times of low demand and release
power when needs are greatest, Jones said. It will smooth power
flows to the grid, allowing more space for renewable generation.  The project will defer about 6 million pounds of
investments otherwise required to reinforce networks, said Nick
Heyward, commercial manager at U.K. Power Networks. The project
design includes potential expansion to about 18 megawatt-hours,
he said. It already won 13.2 million pounds from energy
regulator Ofgem.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  