-- Senate Democrats Call for Curbs on U.S. Intelligence Gathering
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-07-28T16:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/senate-democrats-call-for-curbs-on-u-s-intelligence-gathering.html
Senate Democrats  said today they’ll
move forward with efforts to curb the National Security Agency’s
ability to collect telephone records on millions of Americans,
after the  House of Representatives  narrowly defeated a proposal
to limit the spy agency’s intelligence gathering.  “It’s clear that the sentiment is growing for oversight,”
Illinois Senator  Dick Durbin , the chamber’s second-ranking
Democrat, said today on ABC’s “This Week,” discussing last
week’s House vote.  Durbin said he supports limits on the collection of “meta-data” from telephone calls, and said that the courts deciding
on the legality of the collection efforts should be “a real
court proceeding.”  The legislative debate shows the politically divisive
nature of U.S. intelligence collection programs that were
disclosed by fugitive U.S. security contractor Edward Snowden,
who has holed up in a Moscow airport since arriving there June
23 in an attempt to gain asylum. The Obama administration
opposed the House measure.  Senator Mark Udall, a Colorado Democrat who has introduced
a bill requiring the government to provide specific evidence of
justification before gaining access to private records, said
indiscriminate data collection is a violation of Americans’
privacy.  Program Effectiveness  “When we’re collecting in bulk all of these records of
Americans’ phone calls, we’re not necessarily being any more
effective at protecting the country,” he said on the CBS
program “Face the Nation.”  The House narrowly rejected a proposal July 24 to prevent
the NSA from using funds to collect the telephone records. The
restriction was an amendment to the annual Defense Department
spending bill and would have limited intelligence agencies’
telephone-record collecting only to individuals who are under an
investigation authorized by the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court. The amendment was defeated 217-205.  “What you’re doing is taking away the one tool that we
know will allow us to make a nexus between a foreign terrorist
overseas talking to someone in the  United States ,” said
Representative Mike Rogers, a  Michigan  Republican and chairman
of the House Intelligence Committee, appearing on “Face the
Nation.”  There are “zero privacy violations,” in NSA’s data-collection program, Rogers said.  Unusual Alliances  Debate over the House measure produced unusual alliances,
with the White House and many Republicans -- typically at odds -
- allied against the proposal. On the other side were the
libertarian wing of the Republican Party and Democrats concerned
over the government’s intrusion on  privacy rights .  “Let’s have an advocate for someone standing up for civil
liberties to speak up about the privacy of Americans when they
make each of these decisions,” Durbin said.  The close vote ensures debate over curbing government
surveillance powers will continue, Representative  John Conyers 
of Michigan, the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee,
told reporters. The amendment was spearheaded by Michigan
Republican Representative Justin Amash, who told reporters after
the vote he would try to attach similar language to other bills.  The NSA has said it is collecting only metadata on all U.S.
calls, such as telephone numbers and duration, and that agency
officials access the data only when needed for terrorism
investigations.  Supporting the amendment were 94 Republicans and 111
Democrats. Voting against it 134 Republicans and 83 Democrats.
The House’s two top Republicans, Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio
and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia, and the chamber’s
top Democrats, Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California and
Minority Whip  Steny Hoyer  of  Maryland , all opposed the
amendment.  The Senate Judiciary Committee plans a hearing July 31 to
examine whether changes should be made to the legal authorities
underpinning the government’s electronic surveillance powers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Rohner at 
 mrohner@bloomberg.net  