-- Siemens to Replace CEO as Loescher Fails to Mimic Peers
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-07-29T10:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/siemens-to-replace-ceo-as-loescher-fails-to-mimic-peers.html
When in May 2007  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
battered by corruption scandals, picked then little-known Merck
& Co. executive  Peter Loescher  as its chief executive officer,
investors responded by pushing the stock to a six-year high.  This weekend, they lost patience after Loescher’s expansion
into green energy and expensive acquisitions led to a fifth
profit-forecast cut. Supervisory board officials have asked for
the 55-year-old Austrian native to be ousted at what was a
previously scheduled meeting to sign off on results on July 31.  Loescher’s failure to meet a profit goal of 12 percent of
sales underlines the challenges for his likely successor, Chief
Financial Officer Joe Kaeser. Siemens’s 60 sub-units,
manufacturing a wide range of products such as trains, gas
turbines, medical scanners and factory automation gear, make
oversight challenging for any executive trying to understand
each market, prompting questions as to whether a focus on fewer
businesses may help to boost profitability.  “We really believed this 12 percent margin target was
achievable so it was a huge disappointment when they said they
wouldn’t make it,” said Kristian Falnes, the chief investment
officer at Stavanger, Norway-based Skagen AS, which owns less
than 1 percent of Siemens shares. “Siemens is below peers at
the moment.”  Lagging Peers  Siemens on Saturday said that the supervisory board will
decide on the “early departure” of Loescher and the
appointment of a new CEO at this Wednesday’s meeting. The
company will probably appoint Kaeser, a 33-year company veteran,
according to people familiar with the matter.  “Power struggles unnecessarily exacerbate the problems at
Siemens,” said Union Investment fund manager  Ingo Speich .
“It’s without precedent that a supervisory board decision of
this resonance is pre-empted by the company in a press
release.”  While other German industrial champions have prospered
during the European credit crisis thanks to their strength on
export markets, Siemens has floundered.  Since Loescher, who was recruited by Chairman Gerhard Cromme, took over in July 2007, the shares have declined 22
percent.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  has more than doubled in that period,
while  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s biggest chemical company, jumped 37
percent and Germany’s largest drugmaker  Bayer AG (BAYN)  climbed 51
percent.  $100 Million  Including a termination payment and pension contributions,
Loescher will have earned as much as 75.7 million euros ($100
million) in his six years as CEO.  Today, Siemens gained as much as 2.3 percent. In case
Loescher has to leave the company, he’s not going to demand the
departure of Cromme, as speculated by some German newspapers, a
company spokesman said. Tabloid Bild earlier today quoted
Loescher as saying that “the well-being of Siemens and its
employees is the most important thing for me.” The company
confirmed the comments.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  sees Siemens as “a
flagship of the German economy and that’s why it’s important to
her that this global company returns to calm waters,”
government spokesman  Georg Streiter  said today in Berlin.  A key element of Loescher’s growth strategy was the 2009
announcement that he would transform Siemens into a “green
infrastructure giant”, heralding a drive into solar technology
to promote Siemens as a partner for companies and governments
keen to use more renewable energies.  Solar Losses  That year he paid $418 million to buy  Israel ’s Solel Solar
Systems and increased the stake in Italian solar thermal
specialist Archimede Solar Energy to 45 percent. At the 2010
annual general meeting, the Harvard Business School MBA
graduate, who at his first press conference said that Siemens
needed to improve its marketing efforts, wore a green tie and
called for a “green revolution.”  Yet by this June, with Chinese companies undercutting
prices in the solar market and the European sovereign debt
crisis stunting infrastructure investment, the company announced
it would shutter the solar unit. It had racked up losses of more
than 1 billion euros.  The market downturn in the solar industry was also
compounded by poor planning. Since Solel was an Israeli company,
it was more difficult to make sales in the Middle East and North
Africa, a person familiar with the matter said in March.  ‘Really Questionable’  Other acquisitions also disappointed investors. Loescher’s
biggest deal was the $7 billion acquisition of medical
diagnostics specialist Dade Behring, which he agreed less than a
month after taking office. The asset failed to perform and
Loescher wrote down the value, the first of several failed
acquisitions on his watch that hurt his reputation.  “This expensive acquisition of Dade Behring was really
questionable,” said Juergen Meyer, a fund manager at SEB Asset
Management, which owns less than 1 percent of Siemens shares.
“He wasted billions of euros on this, and responsibility for
that decision rests with the CEO.”  While succeeding in reducing headcount and boosting
operational profit, profit margins have lagged those of
competitors. Siemens had a profit margin of 9.5 percent in 2012
when competitors  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  had margins
of 10.3 percent and 15 percent, respectively.  Even as profitability peaked at 12 percent in 2011, JP
Morgan analysts complained of a lost year amid 400 million euros
of charges in the particle-therapy unit, a 500 million-euro
capital injection into the Nokia Siemens Networks telecoms joint
venture and a 682 million-euro fine related to a nuclear-power
venture with  Areva SA. (AREVA)   Dropped Targets  Loescher’s response to criticism was to set ambitious
targets.  He would increase sales by almost a third to 100 billion
euros “within a few years”, the executive said March 2011, and
he formed a new sector dubbed “Infrastructure and Cities” to
better co-ordinate big metropolitan projects.  That sales target was later put on the backburner amid a
global economic slowdown, with Loescher saying in November he
would prioritize profitability over sales. The Infrastructure
and Cities division’s 6.3 percent profit margin is the lowest of
Siemens’s four sectors.  Still, Loescher’s renewable energy push helped to win
market share, with the wind power division being responsible for
83 percent of all European offshore wind installations. At the
same time, the power transmissions unit has been burdened by
charges totaling 682 million euros since 2011 for delays in
transmitting wind power to the grid.  Siemens’s Breadth  The company will probably be hit by another 100 million-euro charge for faulty land-based wind turbines, according to
people familiar with the matter. The provisions join 343 million
euros in charges for delayed train deliveries to Deutsche Bahn
AG since 2011.  “Siemens wins these huge projects, but then with deals
such as the ICEs for Deutsche Bahn, it doesn’t manage them
effectively and the costs increase,” Fairesearch analyst Heinz Steffen said by phone.  Predecessor Klaus Kleinfeld had in his two years as CEO
succeeded in making all the company’s units meet or exceed their
profit goals. While Loescher promised to continue the upward
trend, he had a challenge on his hands to acquaint himself with
Siemens’s breadth as his background was mainly in healthcare.  Kleinfeld’s Strategy  The company had ten divisions, which Loescher streamlined
to fewer sectors, largely following a strategy developed by
Kleinfeld. Still, each of the four sectors averaged about 20
billion euros in sales last year. That figure is more than the
sales of the thirteen smallest companies by revenue in  Germany ’s
benchmark DAX Index of 30 companies.  Within each sector, there remains a plethora of sub-companies, totaling 15 further divisions and 60 units.  While Finance Chief Kaeser with his 33-year experience at
Siemens might be able to manage that complexity, the question
remains whether a new CEO should focus on fewer businesses, said
investor Falnes.  “Of course it’s a very complicated and difficult
company,” he said. “If it’s too difficult, then maybe the
right thing is to split the company into minor parts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  