-- Silver Vault for 200 Tons Starts in Singapore as Wealthy Buy
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-07-29T09:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/silver-vault-for-200-tons-starts-in-singapore-as-wealthy-buy.html
A silver vault that can hold 200
metric tons opens in  Singapore  this week to cater for increasing
demand for physical precious metals among Asia’s wealthy even as
the commodity leads declines this year.  The new facility is 30 percent booked at the opening, said
Joshua Rotbart, precious-metals general manager at owner Malca-Amit Global Ltd. The storage will add to the firm’s five vaults
at the Singapore FreePort, which are fully reserved for gold, he
said in an interview. The repository can hold $128 million of
silver at today’s prices. Gold is about 67 times  more expensive .  While silver has lost 34 percent in 2013 on concern the
U.S. Federal Reserve will taper stimulus, holdings in exchange-traded products have held steady. The number of high-net-worth
individuals in the Asia-Pacific region expanded 9.4 percent last
year, according to  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  and Royal Bank of Canada.
Deutsche Bank AG,  UBS (UBSN)  AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are among
banks operating metals storage in Singapore.  “Our existing vaults at the FreePort are highly secured
and the rate is too expensive to store silver there,” said
Rotbart, who declined to say where the new facility is sited.
“We need to find a solution, and we also see a strong demand.”  Silver is the biggest loser on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Index of 24 raw materials this year, beating declines in corn,
gold and nickel. Futures, which dropped to $18.17 an ounce in
June, the lowest since August 2010, traded at $19.9045 today.
Gold has slumped 21 percent to $1,330.34 an ounce.  ETP Holdings  Silver holdings in ETPs stood at 19,222 tons on July 26,
1.6 percent higher this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Assets in  gold-backed ETPs  have contracted at a
record pace, shrinking 25 percent to 1,970 tons. ETPs allow
investors to trade assets without taking delivery, while
physical holders require storage, such as a vault.  Investors in silver are mostly private individuals, while
the majority of gold holders are institutions, said Rotbart.
Malca-Amit is looking to build another silver vault in Hong
Kong, and may add more gold vaults in Singapore as there is no
more availability in the FreePort, he said. The FreePort is
located near Changi Airport in the east of the city-state.  The number of individuals with $1 million or more in
investible assets climbed to 3.68 million in the Asia-Pacific
region in 2012, boosted by additions in Singapore and Hong Kong,
according to a report from Cap Gemini and Royal Bank of  Canada .
China accounted for 43 percent of worldwide economic growth from
2007 to 2012, according to an estimate from Barclays Plc.  Leased Space  UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, started storing gold for
clients in a leased facility in Singapore, an executive said
this month. JPMorgan Chase opened a bullion vault at the
Singapore FreePort in 2010. Jeremy Hughes, a Deutsche Bank
spokesman in Singapore, said that the bank had leased space for
its 100-ton gold vault at the FreePort from Malca-Amit.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecasts further declines in
precious metals, with a 12-month target of $19.60 for silver and
$1,175 for gold. The Fed is likely to start tapering its $85
billion a month of asset purchases in September,  Jan Hatzius ,
the New York-based bank’s chief economist, said in a report.  About 50 percent of silver is used in industry, compared
with 10 percent for gold, data from the Silver Institute and
World Gold Council show. Industrial applications for silver
include photography and electronics.  Malca-Amit’s vaults in Hong Kong and Singapore have a
precious-metals capacity of 1,000 tons each, and the company
also has facilities in New York, Zurich, Geneva,  London  and
Bangkok. The company leases vault space to banks, and stores
items for its own customers.  The Singapore government has been promoting the country as
a bullion-trading hub, removing a 7 percent sales tax on
investment-grade precious metals in 2012. About 2 percent of
world gold demand flows through Singapore, and the government
aims to increase that to as much as 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  