-- South Korea Makes ‘Final’ Offer on Gaeseong Negotiations
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-07-28T09:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/south-korea-makes-final-offer-on-gaeseong-negotiations.html
South Korea  offered to return to
talks with North Korea for a “final” time to try to restore
operations at the suspended Gaeseong joint industrial zone,
after six rounds of discussions failed.  “We propose another talk on Gaeseong and this is our final
offer,” South Korean Unification Minister Ryoo Kihl Jae said in
a press briefing today in  Seoul . “The North must ensure no
repeat of such a suspension for political and military reasons,
or we will have to make an important decision to protect our
businesses.”  Officials from the two countries failed to reach an
agreement on how to prevent North Korea from unilaterally
closing the industrial park. A scuffle broke out at the sixth
meeting on July 25 when  North Korea ’s chief negotiator Pak Chol
Su and about 20 officials entered a room of South Korean
journalists to explain their position.  North Korea withdrew its workers from the zone April 8 to
protest United Nations sanctions and U.S.-South Korean military
drills, during a period of heightened tensions that included
threats of preemptive nuclear strikes by Kim Jong Un’s regime.  South Korean companies operating factories with North
Korean workers in Gaeseong reported about 1.6 trillion won ($1.4
billion) in losses as of June 7, according to the results of a
survey by the Unification Ministry released on June 25.  South Korean President Park Geun Hye yesterday repeated her
call to North Korea to abandon its nuclear ambitions, as Kim Jong Un’s regime displayed its military might in a parade
marking the 60th anniversary of the armistice that ended the
 Korean War . U.S. President  Barack Obama  stressed the country’s
partnership with the South as “a bedrock of stability” in the
Asia-Pacific region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  