-- Syrian Looters in Bulldozers Seek Treasure Amid Chaos
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-07-29T10:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/syrian-looters-in-bulldozers-seek-treasure-amid-chaos.html
When the uprising against  Syria ’s
President Bashar al-Assad began two years ago,  satellite images 
showed the ruins of the ancient Hellenic city of Apamea
surrounded by green farmland. A year later, photos reveal a
moonscape blighted by hundreds upon hundreds of holes.  Looters in bulldozers armed with automatic weapons are
exploiting the mayhem of Syria’s civil war to seize sites
including Apamea, founded in 300 B.C. by one of Alexander the
Great’s generals, where colonnaded streets stretch for almost 2
kilometers (1.2 miles) along a hilltop.  “It’s tragic, objects from archaeological sites risk being
lost without us ever knowing they existed,” said  Jonathan Tubb ,
keeper of the Middle East department at the  British Museum . “It
can be callous to talk about this in the face of appalling human
loss, but Syria’s cultural heritage is of such great importance
to our understanding of human history that it’s only right we’re
concerned.”  There are more endangered heritage sites in Syria than
anywhere else in the world, the  United Nations , Educational,
Scientifid and Cultural Organization,  UNESCO , said this year.
The country has more than 10,000 archaeological sites left by
the Greeks, Romans, Ottomans and other civilizations.  “We feel bitter and sad -- many sites have been destroyed
before our eyes,” Mamoun Abdul-Karim, head of Syria’s
Directorate-General of  Antiquities and Museums , said in an
interview from Damascus. “Clandestine excavations are most
dangerous because they mean eternal death, while sites damaged
by fighting can be restored.”  Baghdad Looting  Abdul-Karim said his department stored artifacts in safe
places to prevent a repeat of the pillaging that emptied the
National Museum of Iraq of its Mesopotamian relics after the
March 2003 war that toppled  Saddam Hussein . He said that while
antiquities officials have started local initiatives that
include watch groups of tribal elders and civilians to protect
sites, they’ve been confronted by gangs of heavily armed men and
earth-moving equipment.  “Preventing the smuggling of antiquities and clandestine
excavations is the responsibility of every Syrian,” he said.
“Even if we have political disagreements, let’s not disagree
over the country’s heritage.”  The opposition Syrian National Coalition says the
government has no genuine respect for the country’s cultural
past. It said Assad’s forces this week razed the mausoleum of
Khalid Bin Walid in Homs, part of what it termed the destruction
of “ancient and historic buildings, mosques, churches, houses,
castles, and other cultural, religious landmarks in an attempt
to crush the Syrian revolution.”  Death Toll  About 280 people were killed across the country over the
weekend, the U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights 
group said today. The war’s overall death toll has risen to more
than 100,000 as of July 25, according to UN estimates.  In June, UNESCO placed six Syrian world heritage sites on
its risk list. They include the ancient cities of Aleppo, Bosra
and Damascus, 40 ancient northern villages, the crusader castles
of Crac des Chevaliers and Qal’at Salah El-Din, and Palmyra.  Also under threat are sites in remote regions known to have
yielded significant objects in the past, Tubb said.  That includes Apamea, northwest of Hama in central Syria,
where unauthorized digging is continuing, according to Abdul-Karim. Also affected are places like Mari, southeast of Deir
Ezzor, where in 1933 French archaeologists unearthed the temple
of the goddess Ishtar dating to the first Babylonian dynasty;
and Ebla southwest of Aleppo, where an archive of about 20,000
cuneiform tablets in the earliest known Semitic language were
found by Italians in the 1960s.  ‘Machine Guns’  Historic sites “are hard to defend with limited resources
even in good times because all it takes is a few people to turn
up with machine guns,” Tubb said. “But the number of sites
that will yield real treasures is minimal, you could search for
the next six months to find something as good as what has
already been found.”  The sort of prize looters seek would include bronzes and
ancient tablets inscribed with religious or economic text, which
can fetch 300 to 400 pounds ($460-$610) each and are often found
in stashes of several hundred, he said.  Most looted objects end up in Turkey or Lebanon, according
to Abdul-Karim. In 2012, about 4,000 pieces were recovered
though Tubb says he hasn’t seen a single museum piece or object
purported to have come from Syria.  Difficulties in finding and selling objects “doesn’t stop
people from trying and that’s the issue: damage inflicted on
sites in pursuit of artifacts,” he said.  Technology gives some sense of the scale of destruction,
but only by having people on the ground can a reliable
assessment be made.  “We sit here and speculate and look at satellite photos
but we just don’t know what is happening,” Tubb said, “and
that is the frustration, not being able to get on a plane and
have a look.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  