-- U.K. Energy Regulator Urged to Act on Power Supplier Profits
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-07-29T08:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/u-k-energy-regulator-urged-to-act-on-power-supplier-profits.html
U.K. energy regulator Ofgem should
act to make energy company profits more transparent and increase
competition in a market dominated by  Centrica Plc (CNA) , EDF Energy
Plc and EON SE, lawmakers said.  The six largest energy companies, including  SSE Plc (SSE) ,
Scottish Power Ltd. and  RWE AG (RWE)  have different units generating,
trading and supplying energy, Parliament’s multi-party Energy
and Climate Change Committee said in a report. This makes it
difficult to determine profits they make from  energy supply  and
how this impacts on energy prices, the lawmakers said.  The report fuels debate over energy costs in the U.K. where
suppliers garnered criticism for posting profits while raising
prices. RWE Npower Plc said this month it controls just 16
percent of the energy bill with costs of government policies to
spur low-carbon generation absorbing most of a 20 percent bill
increase it expects by 2020. The government says wholesale gas
and power prices are the main driver behind rises.  “At a time when many people are struggling with the rising
costs of energy, consumers need reassurance that the profits
being made by the Big Six are not excessive,”  Robert Smith ,
acting chair of the committee, said in a statement with the
report. “Unfortunately, the complex vertically-integrated
structure of these companies means that working out exactly how
their profits are made requires forensic accountants.”  Ofgem should shine a “brighter light” on companies to
reassure consumers high energy prices aren’t fueling excessive
profits and adopt recommendations by accountant BDO LLP on
improving energy company reporting, it said.  Vulnerable Homes  The report also said government is not doing enough to
support millions of low-income families in poorly insulated
homes. Levies on bills to fund social and environmental programs
add to their burden, the lawmakers said.  The U.K. has the so-called Green Deal program to insulate
houses and a subsidy program for renewable energy, both paid for
by bills. Programs should be funded through direct taxation
rather than levies, to help the most vulnerable, it said.  Energy Secretary Edward Davey, speaking today on ITV’s
Daybreak program, said his government would study the report and
that energy companies needed to be held to account for profits
and declare them in a clearer way.  Competition Encouraged  “What we’re are doing, through more competition and
through more  energy efficiency , is we’re putting a cushion
between the prices people are facing and the bills they pay,”
Davey said. “We’re on consumers’ side by what we’re doing.”  Ofgem said in an e-mailed statement it welcomed the report
and would consider its findings as part of efforts to ensure
companies’ statements are clear and accurate.  “We share the committee’s goal of restoring consumers’
trust,” said Rachel Fletcher, Ofgem’s senior partner for
markets. “We agree with the committee that suppliers have been
poor at communicating with their customers.”  Ofgem is planning reforms that will ensure customers get
clearer information about energy, making tariffs simpler, she
said.  The regulator is also proposing to force companies to
publish prices two years in advance to boost competition, she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  