-- U.K.’s Cable Sees Risk Help-to-Buy Could Inflate Housing
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-07-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/u-k-s-cable-sees-risk-help-to-buy-could-inflate-housing.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
said there’s a risk the government’s program to boost housing
demand might lead to a bubble unless it’s properly designed.  The Help-to-Buy plan to provide mortgage guarantees “could
be a problem, it could inflate the market, but if it’s properly
designed it could be a useful addition,” Cable said on BBC
television yesterday. “We mustn’t risk returning to the
problems of the last decade, when housing got out of control.”  Cable’s comments follows similar warnings from the
 International Monetary Fund  and former Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  about the risks associated with the Help-to-Buy
program, under which banks will be encouraged to lend to riskier
home buyers.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said earlier
this month that he couldn’t see the conditions under which Help-to-Buy would create a bubble given the current financial
climate. Cable is a member of the Liberal Democrats, the junior
partner in the coalition headed by Osborne’s Conservatives.  There are signs that the  property market  is recovering.
Hometrack said today that average  house prices  in England and
Wales rose 0.3 percent in July from June and were up 1.3 percent
from a year earlier.  Mortgage approvals  probably rose the
highest in more than five years in June, economists said in a
survey before data from the  Bank of England  due at 9:30 a.m.  ‘Sensible Balance’  Asked about comments he made to the Financial Times last
week calling Bank of England policy makers a “capital Taliban”
for imposing burdens on banks that are restricting lending to
business, Cable said that exporters and manufacturers are
struggling to obtain loans. It’s important to have a “sensible
balance” between the need for tighter regulation and the need
to provide credit, he said.  “There was the prospect a year ago that the Nationwide and
potentially other building societies would get into business
lending,” Cable told the BBC. “The Nationwide is having to
withdraw from that because of these tough  capital
requirements .”  Cable expressed “cautious optimism” about the state of
the economy after official figures last week showed  gross
domestic product  rose 0.6 percent in the second quarter, with
all main industries expanding for the first time in three years.  “There are some good things happening in manufacturing,”
he said. “We’ve got to keep that going for a period of years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  