-- U.K. House-Price Growth Slowed in July on Property Supply Pickup
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-07-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/u-k-house-price-growth-slowed-in-july-on-property-supply-pickup.html
U.K. house-price  growth slowed in
July as more Britons offered their property for sale and demand
cooled at the start of the summer, according to Hometrack Ltd.  Average values in England and  Wales  increased 0.3 percent
after a 0.4 percent gain in June, the London-based property
researcher said in a statement today. From a year earlier,
prices were up 1.3 percent, the most since 2010.  The government has taken steps to help Britons’ entry into
the housing market, with measures to encourage sales of newly
built property and guarantees for borrowers with smaller
deposits. While property supply picked up this month, a shortage
of homes for sale in recent months has supported prices and is
likely to continue to do so.  Supply is “likely to expand further as vendors look to
benefit from improving  market sentiment ,” said  Richard Donnell ,
director of research at Hometrack. “However we do not expect
growth in supply to be sufficient to erode the scarcity of homes
for sale. This is likely to remain an important feature in the
market in the second half of the year.”  Hometrack said property listings rose 2.4 percent in July,
up from 1.6 percent in June. New buyers registering with real-estate agents rose 1 percent, down from 1.6 percent.  Mortgage approvals  probably rose to 59,700 in June from
58,242 in May, economists said in a survey before data today
from the  Bank of England . That would be the highest in more than
five years. The central bank will publish the report, along with
data on  consumer credit , at 9:30 a.m.  Consumers are helping drive the economic recovery, with
second-quarter growth of 0.6 percent fueled in part by retail
sales. Gross domestic product is still 3.3 percent below its
peak in early 2008.  Bank of England policy makers will meet this week as they
assess the merits of giving investors more information on the
future path of policy. They’ll leave their  bond-purchase plan  at
375 billion pounds ($576 billion), according to all but one of
42 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The key  interest rate 
will stay at a record low of 0.5 percent, a separate poll
showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  