-- Biden Says U.S. to Push China for South China Sea Code
-- B y   H a s l i n d a   A m i n   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-07-29T01:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/u-s-to-push-china-for-south-china-sea-conduct-code-biden-says.html
Vice President Joe Biden said the
U.S. is pushing  China  to negotiate quickly with Southeast Asian
nations on a code of conduct for the South China Sea, an area
that’s a “major, major, major highway of commerce.”  China agreed during an  Association of Southeast Asian
Nations -hosted forum in Brunei late last month to meet with the
10-member group in September to develop rules to avoid conflict
in the waters. Nguyen Tan Dung, prime minister of Asean member
 Vietnam , warned in May that miscalculations over territorial
disputes could disrupt commerce, with two-thirds of all maritime
trade moving through the area.  “We’re doing everything to encourage that to be done, but
it has to be done,” Biden said in a Bloomberg Television
interview on July 27, as he wrapped up a six-day trip to India
and Singapore. “It’s in everyone’s interest, including China’s,
to have it happen that way, through negotiating a settlement.”  Biden is the third senior Obama administration official to
visit Asia -- following Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel and
Secretary of State John Kerry -- since May, as the U.S. seeks to
assure its allies it is committed to a pledge to build its
military and economic presence in the region. The U.S. has close
ties with the Philippines, which has its own maritime dispute
with China, a tussle that has also prompted the Asean member to
bolster its relations with Japan.  President  Barack Obama  will travel to  Malaysia  for a summit
October 11-12, Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes said
yesterday in a message on the social networking site Twitter.  China’s neighbors reject its map of the South China Sea,
first published in the 1940s, as a basis for joint exploration
of oil and gas. Spats involving fishing and exploration boats
have raised tensions as countries vie for resources.  China Claims  China National Offshore Oil Corp. estimates the South China
Sea may hold about five times more undiscovered natural gas than
the country’s current proved reserves, according to the U.S.
 Energy Information Administration.   China, the world’s second-biggest economy, rejects U.S.
involvement in South China Sea matters. While it has said it
wants a code of conduct in the waters, it also seeks to resolve
territorial disputes on a bilateral basis. It views the other
countries as aggressors, accusing them of breaching a previous
agreement on operating in the area.  Biden didn’t offer specifics on how the U.S. would prod
China for a quick resolution of a code of conduct.  “It is in China’s interest to drag out as long as possible
any legally-binding document” that could be seen to diminish
its claims on the South China Sea, said Terence Lee, an
assistant professor of political science at National University
of  Singapore . “It’s very unlikely the code of conduct will be
agreed on this year.”  Trade Ties  China has cut the cables of survey ships working for
Vietnam and its dispute with the Philippines has led to several
standoffs between Chinese and Philippine vessels. China claims
“indisputable sovereignty” over more than 100 islets, atolls
and reefs that form the Paracel and Spratly Islands, and
jurisdiction over the seabed and subsoil.  Further north, Japan’s purchase last year of islands known
as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China led to Chinese protests
and roiled trade ties between Asia’s two biggest economies.  “What we want to see is that there’s no use of threat,
intimidation or force,” Biden said in Singapore. “The rules of
the road and international rules relating to international
waters, sea lanes” need to be be upheld, to keep them open and
free, he said.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on July 27 agreed with
the  Philippines  to boost maritime cooperation and seek
“responsible action” on territorial disputes. Abe also called
on China for talks “as soon as possible” to improve ties.
During his visit to the Philippines he said Japan would provide
a yen loan to equip the Philippine Coast Guard with 10 new
patrol vessels.  ‘Cold War’  Territorial spats and North Korea’s nuclear ambitions have
escalated regional tensions, and China views the increased U.S.
presence in Asia as a bid to contain it. Abe, in turn, has
backed Japan’s first boost in military spending in 11 years, and
his Defense Ministry is urging a buildup of marine forces.  “There’s sort of a storyline that either there’s a new
Cold War with China or there’s a new G2 -- neither is true,”
Biden said. “We are prepared and anxious to compete with China
in the economic forum. We also believe there are many areas of
cooperation, for example on the environment.”  Biden met Abe in Singapore on July 26, the same day  Japan ’s
defense ministry said it should bolster its fledgling marine
force and consider developing a first-strike capability as it
seeks to respond to “high-handed” actions by China and the
threat of North Korean missiles. Abe advocates the country’s
first revision of its pacifist constitution, a U.S.-drafted
document imposed on Japan after World War II.  Pacific Power  “I’ve met with the Japanese leadership -- I’ve not heard
Abe say, or anyone else say, that they are going to abandon the
conditions that exist within their constitution,” Biden said.
“It’s in no one’s interest to see increased militarization of
any country in the region.”  A year after the Pentagon said it would focus more on Asia
after a decade of wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan , the U.S. Defense
Department faces as much as $500 billion in cuts over the next
nine years. The U.S. military rebalance will mean that 60
percent of the Navy’s fleet will be based in the Pacific by
2020, from about 50 percent.  “One of the reasons the region has been able to succeed so
well economically for long is the stability and security the
United States’s presence in the region has provided,” Biden
said. “We’re a Pacific power. We’re not going anywhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  