-- Jackman’s Brooding ‘Wolverine’ Leads Weekend Film Sales
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-07-29T21:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/hugh-jackman-s-brooding-wolverine-leads-weekend-theater-sales.html
“The Wolverine,” the Marvel
superhero film featuring  Hugh Jackman , was the top weekend movie
in the U.S. and Canadian theaters, with $53.1 million in sales
for  21st Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)   “The Conjuring” dropped to second place from first with
$22.2 million,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement. The teen comedy “The To Do List,” the only
other premiere in wide release, opened in 15th place.  The comic-book superheroes from Walt Disney Co.-owned
Marvel, which have proven a reliable franchise for studios in
the past, stumbled as “The Wolverine” missed forecasts. The
film was predicted to take in between $70 million to $75.4
million, according to industry estimates. Fox has released six
films about the X-Men mutants, which include the Wolverine.  Chris Aronson, president of domestic distribution for 20th
Century Fox, said the opening was below its predecessor, “X-Men
Origins: Wolverine,” four years ago.  “Most sequels tend to open a little bit less than their
predecessors in the U.S., but internationally they tend to open
bigger,” he said. The movie has grossed $86.1 million
internationally, he said, above all prior X-Men openings.  The film garnered a 67 percent favorable rating out of 146
reviews aggregated by Rottentomatoes.com.  Summer Blockbuster  In the latest picture, the brooding Wolverine, also known
as Logan, travels to  Japan  and becomes entangled in a crisis
involving the family patriarch he rescued from the radiation of
Nagasaki years earlier. The story is taken from celebrated
Marvel Comics episodes from the early 1980s, according to
Bloomberg News critic  Craig Seligman .  “‘The Wolverine’ offers about the most that you can ask
from a summer blockbuster,” Seligman wrote. “It has enough
story to be involving, and the fights transcend mere machinery.
In its astronomically budgeted, effects-laden way, it’s
appealingly modest.”  The film cost about $120 million to produce, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo, and needs about $500 million in
worldwide ticket sales to rate as a success for Fox, according
to Boxoffice.com. That would put it ahead of previous X-Men
movies. The production budget doesn’t include marketing costs.
Studios typically split the proceeds with exhibitors.  ‘To Do List’  Fox follows up “The Wolverine” next year with “X-Men:
Days of Future Past,” a film that includes appearances by
Jackman, earlier X-Men stars  Patrick Stewart  and  Ian McKellen ,
and the newer generation of mutants led by  Jennifer Lawrence ,
 Michael Fassbender  and  James McAvoy .  “The X-Men universe as a whole remains incredibly healthy
and popular,” Aronson said. “You’ll see more X-Men movies
coming.”  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s film division’s “The To Do List” features
 Aubrey Plaza  as a nerdy high-school whiz kid Brandy Klark who
wants to lose her virginity before heading off to college in the
fall. The film took in $1.58 million in its debut.  The film, written and directed by Maggie Carey, also
features “Saturday Night Live” players Bill Hader and Andy Samberg. It was made for $1.5 million, according to Box Office
Mojo, and opened in fewer than 600 theaters.  The new Woody Allen feature “Blue Jasmine” opened in
limited release, taking in $102,011 per screen in six theaters
in  Los Angeles  and  New York . The film from  Sony Pictures
Classics  is a reimagining of “A Streetcar Named Desire.”  ‘The Conjuring’  Cate Blanchett  plays Jasmine, a woman who married well and
then finds herself impoverished again with the fall of her
Bernie Madoff-like husband, played by  Alec Baldwin .  Among returning films, the low-cost horror movie “The
Conjuring” from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s New Line Cinema was second.
The movie was made for about $20 million, and is based on the
experiences of real-life paranormal investigators Ed and
Lorraine Warren, whose work included an examination of a
supposedly haunted house that inspired the movie “The
Amityville Horror.”  “Despicable Me 2,” the animated comedy hit from  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures , fell to third place from second with
sales of $16.4 million in its fourth week of release. The film
has taken in $306.8 million in the U.S. and  Canada  since its
July 3 opening.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 25 percent to
$158 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance year to date is down 2.9 percent, while revenue has
declined less than 1 percent.  The following table has U.S. movie box office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales from July 26 to July 28. 