-- Wary Investors Brace for Mugabe Victory in Zimbabwe
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d ,   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-07-28T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/wary-investors-brace-for-mugabe-victory-in-zimbabwe.html
Zimbabwe’s elections this week
probably won’t end President  Robert Mugabe ’s 33-year rule or his
policies that stifle investment, according to analysts such as
 John Meyer  at London-based SP Angel Corporate Finance LLP.  Mugabe, 89, and his Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front forced mining companies such as  Impala Platinum (IMP) 
Holdings Ltd. to cede a majority share of their local assets to
black Zimbabweans or the government. The southern African nation
has the world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome reserves as
well as deposits of diamonds, gold and coal.  Morgan Tsvangirai ,
who’s challenging Mugabe for the presidency in the July 31 vote,
has promised to unravel the measure.  “Few investors would like to see Mugabe remain in place,”
Meyer, a mining analyst, said in a July 24 phone interview. “A
new government could inspire significant  capital investment  in
Zimbabwe. I don’t think there’s much chance of that happening.”  The economy entered a decade-long recession after Zanu-PF
initiated violent invasions of white-owned commercial farms in
2000, decimating agricultural output. Formerly a corn exporter,
Zimbabwe was gripped by food and fuel shortages. Inflation
soared to 500 billion percent in 2008, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . A year later, an egg cost about 1
billion Zimbabwe dollars in Harare, the capital.  Mugabe and Zanu-PF are more likely to win a close election
because of a combination of an “engineered voter roll,” apathy
and fear of a potential of a violent backlash if they lose,
Jolyon Ford, a political analyst with Oxford Analytica said in a
July 25 interview.  Indigenization Compliance  The 2008 black empowerment law requires all foreign and
white-owned businesses to sell or cede 51 percent of their
shares to black Zimbabweans or the National Indigenization and
Economic Empowerment Board.  It has affected miners such as  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) 
and  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  Bankers including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  are also showing how they’ll comply,
indigenization minister  Saviour Kasukuwere  said in March.  “Western nations will be slow to invest in Zimbabwe if
Zanu-PF wins, but countries like Russia and  China  won’t have the
same concerns,” Paul Moyo, chief economist at Twilight
Investments, an investment advisory company in Bulawayo, the
nation’s second-largest city, said by phone on July 23.  Trade between China and Zimbabwe totalled $1 billion last
year, according to the Zimbabwean government. Chinese companies
also operate Chrome mines in the country.  Investment Hurdles  The Bankers’ Association of Zimbabwe said in an e-mailed
statement on July 24 that it wouldn’t comment on the election in
case it was “misunderstood.” Zimbabwe’s Chamber of Mines also
declined to comment on the ballot. Impala Platinum spokesman  Bob Gilmour  declined to comment.  “The legislation raises hurdles for operating in the
country,” Meyer said. “Some of the businesses are only able to
operate because of the low labor costs.”  Under an agreement in September, the minimum monthly wage
for workers at Zimbabwean  gold mines  is $197 and $212 at diamond
and platinum mines, according to an industry body. That compares
with an average salary for an entry level South African gold-mine worker including benefits and housing of 10,261 rand
($1,055), according to the South African Chamber of Mines.  The last elections in 2008 ended inconclusively. While
Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change won a majority in
parliament, he abandoned the presidential race after leading the
first round, saying more than 200 of his supporters had been
killed before and after the vote.  Power-Sharing Government  Regional neighbors in the 15-nation  Southern African
Development Community  brokered a 2009 power-sharing agreement
between the main political parties, leaving Mugabe as president
and appointing Tsvangirai, 61, as Prime Minister. Zanu-PF
retained control of the security forces, while the MDC took over
most economic ministries.  Tendai Biti, the MDC secretary-general who’s finance
minister, abolished the Zimbabwe dollar and allowed the use of
the  U.S. dollar , British pound and the South African rand. The
measure reduced inflation to single digits, where it remains
today, and helped supermarkets restock empty shelves. The
economy has grown every year since 2009, with Biti predicting
3.4 percent growth this year.  “The MDC has lifted us out of economic hell and most
people are content to leave things be because getting rid of the
old man Mugabe is easier said than done,” said Joram Murere,
who owns a household appliance shop in Harare’s Graniteside
industrial area. “At least with Biti’s U.S. dollars we can eat
and the shops are full, even if no one is buying much.”  Sanctions Cost  Mugabe blames  Zimbabwe ’s economic woes on sanctions by the
U.S. and the European Union, which impose a travel ban and asset
freeze on senior members of his government. They also include an
embargo on arms and “equipment for internal repression.” The
EU has said it will lift the sanctions if the vote is peaceful,
transparent and credible.  Zanu-PF supporters in its mainly rural strongholds believe
a Mugabe victory will see blacks “take over the economy,”
Tyson Maparutsa, a tobacco grower in the northern Mvurwi
district, said in an interview.  “We don’t need or want foreign or white people digging our
minerals from holes,” he said. “They’re our minerals and we
must control the wealth. The MDC will sell Zimbabwe to Americans
and the British, leaving us as lackeys.”  City-dwellers are more concerned with stability in the
economy and lower inflation.  “Mugabe is talking of bringing back the Zimbabwe dollar.
No one, not even his own party, wants that to happen,” Tafadzwa
Gumbo said in his furniture-making factory in Mbare, a suburb of
Harare. “If Mugabe wins, we’re straight back to the stone
age.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  