-- Weiner’s Campaign Manager Quits After Candidate’s Disclosures
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-07-28T15:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/weiner-s-campaign-manager-quits-after-candidate-s-disclosures.html
New York  mayoral candidate Anthony Weiner’s campaign manager quit after revelations about the
Democrat’s online relationships with women.  Danny Kedem, 31, left the campaign this weekend, said
Barbara Morgan, a Weiner spokeswoman. Kedem, reached by
telephone, declined to discuss the circumstances of his break
with Weiner saying, “my official word is no comment.”  Weiner rose to lead the seven-candidate race in public
opinion polls, then fell into a three-way tie for second in a
July 25 NBC 4/Wall Street Journal/Marist survey, two days after
a gossip website disclosed that he had lewd Internet exchanges
with a woman. He had said the behavior was in his past.  Weiner later said he had similar exchanges with six to 10
women. He said three may have occurred after he resigned from
Congress about two years ago over similar behavior.  Weiner, 48, said he would continue his campaign after calls
for him to drop out from the city’s major daily newspapers.  Kedem, a former campaign adviser affiliated with the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, began working with
Weiner in May.  In the past week, U.S. Representative  Jerrold Nadler , a New
York Democrat, and Democratic House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , said Weiner should leave the race.  ‘Tremendous Pressure’  “I suspect there’s been a tremendous pressure on Kedem
from labor campaigns and others who oppose Weiner, and I’m sure
Kedem’s interested in remaining in this business, and he can’t
take the pressure and he’s leaving,” said Joseph Mercurio, a
New York-based political consultant who teaches political
science at  Fordham University  in New York.  “Weiner has the money, and he’s a savvy pol, so I would
think he can find someone else,” said Mercurio, who worked in
former President  Bill Clinton ’s first campaign for Arkansas
governor.  In the poll released July 25, Weiner had support from 16
percent of registered Democrats, after coming in first with 25
percent in a June 25 poll. City Council Speaker Christine Quinn
topped the field in the new survey with 25 percent after
receiving 20 percent last month.  Former City Comptroller  William Thompson  and Public
Advocate Bill de Blasio each drew 14 percent.  The survey was taken the day after the gossip website
TheDirty.com on July 23 posted exchanges between a woman and a
man it said was Weiner. The site showed explicit photos sent
under the user name “Carlos Danger,” whom the website
identified as the former congressman.  In an e-mail the same day, Weiner said, “While some things
that have been posted today are true and some are not, there is
no question that what I did was wrong.” The behavior, he said,
“is behind me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  