-- What the World’s Middle Classes Are Really Protesting
-- B y   R u c h i r   S h a r m a
-- 2013-07-28T22:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/what-the-world-s-middle-classes-are-really-protesting.html
Still-smoldering protests from  Egypt 
to  Brazil  have set off a race among scholars and journalists to
identify the roots of this summer of discontent in the emerging
world. Each major theory starts at the bottom, with the
protesters on the street, and notes a common thread: young,
Twitter-savvy members of a rising middle class. In this telling,
the protests represent the perils of success, as growing wealth
creates a class of people who have the time and financial
wherewithal to demand from their leaders even more prosperity,
and political freedom as well.  This is a plausible story, often well told. Yet it is a bit
too familiar to be fully persuasive. The middle class has indeed
been at the vanguard of protests since the French Revolution. It
has played an important role in  Turkey , Brazil and Egypt since
May and in earlier outbreaks of unrest in a half-dozen other
emerging countries since 2011. But bourgeois rage can only
explain so much. The middle class has been rising for many
decades; in the last 10 years, rapid economic growth has spread
with rare uniformity across most nations in the emerging world.
So why are protests erupting now, and in only a scattered
selection of emerging countries?  Middle Middle  The middle class was not rising particularly fast in the
countries recently hit by protests. According to data from the
 Brookings Institution , in 20 of the largest emerging nations,
the middle class has grown over the last 15 years by an average
of 18 percentage points to comprise a bit more than half the
population. Brookings defines “middle class” individuals as
those who can spend $10 to $100 a day, which should capture all
the people who are newly ready to mobilize in protest. However,
since 2010, protests have broken out in countries where the
Brookings data identify the middle class as growing most
rapidly, such as  Russia , and least rapidly, such as  India . The
biggest protests have struck in countries where growth of the
middle class is near the average: Egypt (14 percent), Brazil (19
percent), Turkey (22 percent).  There is also no clear link between the protests and
dashed middle-class fortunes. Since 2008, the average growth
rate in emerging nations has slowed to 4 percent from 8 percent,
so virtually every new middle class has cause for
disappointment. Some protest-stricken nations have seen
particularly severe slowdowns, including Brazil recently and
Russia before it. But others were growing faster than their
emerging-world peers, including Turkey and even Egypt before the
fall of  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011. So why are these nations among
the cauldrons of middle-class rage?  Maybe the place to start searching for a common thread is
not in the streets but in the halls of power. Among the 20
largest emerging nations, the ruling party has now been in power
for slightly more than eight years on average, or roughly double
the average 10 years ago. Of the nine countries where the ruling
party has held office for longer than eight years, there have
been significant protests targeting the national leadership in
at least six:  Argentina , Brazil, Turkey, Russia, South Africa
and India.  Of the 11 countries in which the ruling party has been in
office for less than eight years, there have been major protests
in only one: Egypt. And in Egypt, liberals protested against the
Muslim Brotherhood for bringing back the economic stagnation and
political autocracy of the previous leadership -- in essence, a
revolt against the character of the old dictatorship. Now, with
Islamists challenging the military “coup,” the middle class
feels caught in the same conflict that has long haunted Egypt.  Boring Heroes  These are revolts against the ancient regimes, revealing
the peril of staying in power too long, a familiar risk since
the days of Louis XVI. Often, even successful leaders have
gotten complacent or overconfident, failing to enact reforms
fast enough to sustain a balance of growth across different
regions and classes. Eventually, enough people get fed up with
the old regime that the population turns on even the giants of
postwar economic development, such as Suharto in  Indonesia  or
Mahathir Mohamed in  Malaysia . In the end, wrote Ralph Waldo
Emerson, every hero becomes a bore.  It’s not clear why so many older regimes are in power now,
but the last decade was a great one for emerging economies, with
rapid growth in virtually all 150  developing countries . That
gave many ruling parties the momentum to stay in office. Today,
as growth slows, many populations are losing patience with
leaders who are not adapting to a tough post-crisis world.  In Brazil, the Workers’ Party has been in power for 10
years, and under President  Dilma Rousseff  follows the statist
approach to development set by her predecessor, even as falling
commodity prices depress growth in a commodity-dependent
economy. Similarly, in Russia, protests erupted in 2011 and 2012
against  Vladimir Putin  and his party, motivated in part by the
failure to diversify its oil-focused economy after 13 years in
power. In Turkey, the issue is the overconfidence of a ruling
party that is pushing the same model that has produced strong
growth for the last 10 years. In South Africa, the mine strikes
that first flared in 2010 remain a simmering threat to the 20-year reign of the  African National Congress . In India, protests
against corruption and mishandled rape cases have given voice to
deep frustrations with the nine-year rule of the Congress-led
coalition government.  The potential for these protests to reignite depends, at
least in part, on whether people have the power to change old
regimes. In genuine multiparty democracies such as India and
Brazil, upcoming elections provide that opportunity. But in
countries such as Russia and  South Africa , where there is no
clear alternative to the ruling regime, the risk of protests
recurring is much greater.  If protests have been erupting primarily against older
regimes, the reverse is also true: New regimes are getting a
free pass from the rising middle class.  In  Mexico , the  Philippines ,  Nigeria  and even  Pakistan ,
relatively fresh leaders are using their political capital to
push needed reforms. In these countries, the young, the
educated, the newly prosperous have no reason to tweet their
friends and hit the streets. For now, they are content to watch
politics unfold on TV.  (Ruchir Sharma, the author of “Breakout Nations,” is
head of  emerging markets  and global macro at Morgan Stanley
Investment Management.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ruchir Sharma at  Ruchir.Sharma@morganstanley.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Nisid Hajari at   nhajari@bloomberg.net . 