-- Woody Allen’s ‘Blue Jasmine’ Packs Theaters Channeling Madoff
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-07-29T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/woody-allen-s-blue-jasmine-packs-theaters-channeling-madoff.html
Woody Allen’s “Blue Jasmine”
packed New York and  Los Angeles  theaters after  Cate Blanchett 
scored glowing reviews for her role as the wife of a Bernie Madoff-like swindler.  The movie, which opened in six theaters this past weekend,
took in $612,767, researcher Hollywood.com Box-Office said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The film averaged $102,128
per screen, leading the weekend’s other new releases on that
basis.  “Blue Jasmine” will rival “Midnight in Paris” as
Allen’s top-grossing film, according to  Michael Barker , co-president and co-founder of  Sony Pictures Classics , which
distributed both movies. This coming weekend “Blue Jasmine”
expands to 50 cities, including Washington and  San Francisco ,
the setting for much of the film, he said.  “You make a name with reviews and standing-room only
crowds on opening weekend,” Barker said in an interview. “Then
you open the film wider and wider. That’s how you get a movie
like this to its highest gross possible.”  “Blue Jasmine” is a re-imagining of Tennessee Williams’s
“A Streetcar Named Desire,” said Bloomberg critic  Greg Evans ,
who gave the film four stars out of a possible five.  Blanchett plays Jasmine French, a Blanche Dubois stand-in
who lands broke and broken on her sister’s doorstep in San
Francisco after her Fifth Avenue lifestyle evaporates due to her
crooked and philandering husband, played by  Alec Baldwin .  Huge Openings  The film garnered an 85 percent positive rating out of 59
reviews aggregated by  Rottentomatoes.com . That compares with 43
percent for Allen’s prior release, “To Rome with Love,” and  93
percent  for “Midnight in Paris,” according to the website.  “Midnight in Paris” garnered $56.8 million at U.S. and
Canadian theaters after its release on May 20, 2011, according
to Hollywood.com Box Office. During its opening weekend, that
movie appeared in six theaters and sold $600,000 in tickets, the
researcher said.  “The last few Allen films all enjoyed huge openings per
theater when they started out in a handful,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com’s box-office unit.
“He has a tremendous following and every one of his releases is
an event and generally leads to filled up theaters on opening
weekend.”  With “Blue Jasmine,”  Sony Pictures Classics , a unit of
Tokyo-based  Sony Corp. (6758) , is replaying its distribution strategy
for “Midnight in Paris,” which remained in theaters for nine
months, Barker said.  “This movie will be in theaters a long, long time,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  