-- Asian Stocks Slip Before Kuroda as Metals Fall; Gas Sinks
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-29T00:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-28/yen-holds-gains-before-kuroda-as-japanese-futures-decline.html
Asian stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark retreating a fourth day, before a speech by  Bank of
Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda and monetary policy reviews from
the U.S. to Europe this week. The yen held gains versus the
dollar, while most metals and natural gas declined.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional equities sank 0.8
percent by 9:57 a.m. in Tokyo, headed for a 2 1/2-week low. The
yen climbed 0.2 percent against the dollar, set for the
strongest close since June 26 after posting the biggest jump of
16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg last week. Malaysia’s
ringgit weakened a fourth day.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
futures were little changed after the gauge rose 0.1 percent
July 26. Gold led precious metals lower, while copper dropped
0.3 percent.  Natural gas   futures (HIA)  lost 2.3 percent.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  convenes July 30-31, with
reports this week expected to show economic growth weakened in
the second quarter and employers added fewer workers this month.
The  European Central Bank  and  Bank of England  also meet this
week, after both signaled earlier in the month that they will
keep  interest rates  low. Japanese retail sales rose 1.6 percent
from a year earlier in June, figures today showed, below the 2.1
percent estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “It’s a big week with earnings reports, central bank
meetings, and of course U.S. payrolls,” Nader Naeimi, Sydney-based head of dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP Capital Investors
Ltd., which manages more than $130 billion, said by phone.
“Investors will be paying a lot of attention to these and
studying the implications for Fed tapering arguments. Where
markets go from here depends a lot on the data and the Fed.”  Topix Sinks  Global stocks touched a six-month low and the  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX)  reached the highest level
since December last month amid speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will start to reduce bond purchases this year that have buoyed
the  U.S. economy . Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other Fed members
have said any tapering will depend on a reduction in risks to
the economic outlook and job market.  Japan’s Topix Index sank 1.7 percent, retreating a fourth
day and poised for the lowest close since June 28 as rubber and
power producers and mining companies led declines. South Korea’s
 Kospi (KOSPI)  gauge fell 0.1 percent after gaining 2.1 percent last
week. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  gained 0.1 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific measure  is headed for a 3.1 percent
advance in July. Kobe Steel Ltd., Komatsu Ltd., Daiwa Securities
Group Inc., IDFC Ltd. and Reliance Capital Ltd. are among index
members scheduled to  report  earnings today, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Yen, Kiwi  The yen climbed to 98.01 per dollar and strengthened 0.2
percent to 130.23 per euro. Kuroda may use today’s address to
get the “Nikkei-yen train back on track,” Steven Englander,
managing director at Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in New York,
wrote in a client note.  The euro was little changed at $1.3287. The New Zealand
currency was steady at 80.85 U.S. cents. The price of taking a
bearish view in the options market on the so-called kiwi has
tumbled to the lowest level in 2 1/2 months after central bank
Governor Graeme Wheeler said last week that monetary easing will
probably need to be removed in the future, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 major peers, lost 0.1 percent today, after sliding 1
percent last week in a third week of declines.  The ringgit dropped 0.3 percent to 3.2172 per dollar,
headed for the lowest close since June 24. Korea’s won
strengthened a second day, adding 0.2 percent to 1,108.92 a
dollar.  Industrial Profits  Futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slipped 0.7 percent
in their most recent trading session, while contracts on the
China Enterprises Index of Chinese stocks traded in the city
slid 0.9 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index of domestic
equities gained 0.9 percent last week, as the Hang Seng added
2.8 percent.  Net income for Chinese industrial companies rose 6.3
percent from a year earlier in June, down from growth of 15.5
percent in May, data from the government statistician July 27
showed. The State Council, under Premier  Li Keqiang , requested
the National Audit Office conduct a review of government
borrowings, according to a statement on the office’s website
yesterday.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in New York added 0.3 percent July 26 to cap a
3.3 percent advance in the week.  IMF Caution  The S&P 500 is headed for a 5.3 percent advance this month.
The U.S. benchmark fell in June, after seven successive months
of gains, as investors examined economic data for clues on when
the Fed will start to reduce the $85 billion of monthly asset
purchases.  The  International Monetary Fund  cautioned last week that
the Fed exiting from its quantitative easing program could spur
excessive interest-rate volatility and would have “adverse
global implications.”  The Fed will start trimming its purchases in September,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Bernanke has said
it is “way too early to make any judgment” as to whether
policy makers will start tapering purchases in September.  U.S. gross domestic product probably rose 1 percent on an
annualized basis in the second quarter, after gaining 1.8
percent in the previous period, data July 31 will show,
according to the median of 73 economists’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. A report today will show pending home sales
contracted 1 percent in June, a separate survey showed. Sales
rose 6.7 percent in May.  Watching Earnings  Employers added 185,000 workers in July, down from 195,000
in June, economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict before
payrolls data due Aug. 2. The ECB will probably leave its
benchmark rate at a record-low 0.5 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists in another survey.  Investors are also watching company  earnings reports  to
gauge the state of the economy. Of the 260 companies in the  S&P
500  that have posted  quarterly results , 73 percent have exceeded
analysts’  estimates  for profit and 57 percent have topped sales
projections, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Starbucks Corp. beat earnings forecasts last week while
Expedia Inc. posted sales and profit that missed estimates.
Companies including  Procter & Gamble Co . and Exxon Mobil Corp.
are set to report this week.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries were little changed at 2.56
percent. Australian government debt due in a decade yielded 3.75
percent, down three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
while yields on Japanese 10-year notes were steady at 0.79
percent.  Gold Bets  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index was little changed in early
trading, after climbing 1.2 percent in a third week of gains
last week.  Gold dropped 0.3 percent to $1,328.97 an ounce, falling a
second day, while silver sank 0.5 percent, platinum lost 0.2
percent and palladium slipped 0.3 percent.  Speculation the Fed will hold back on easing stimulus is
fueling wagers betting on a gold rally, with net-long positions
up 26 percent as of July 23, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show.  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange sank a third day, poised for the lowest close since
July 10, as zinc and tin retreated at least 0.2 percent.  West Texas Intermediate crude was unchanged at $104.70 a
barrel after slipping 0.8 percent July 26. Oil declined at the
end of last week on speculation China’s plans to cut excess
manufacturing capacity will reduce fuel consumption.  Gas futures retreated a fourth day. Contracts on rubber
maturing in January declined 2.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma O’Brien in Wellington at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  