-- ’Wreck-It-Ralph’ Earns Disney $49 Million at Box Office
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-11-05T22:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/-wreck-it-ralph-is-top-weekend-film-with-49-million-for-disney.html
“Wreck-It Ralph,”  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
3-D animated film about video-game characters, was the top movie
in U.S. and Canadian theaters, taking in a record $49 million in
sales for the studio label.  “Flight,” featuring  Denzel Washington  as a pilot who
averts a major airline disaster, was second with $24.9 million
in its debut, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in
an e-mailed statement. “The Man With the Iron Fists,” with
 Russell Crowe , opened in fourth with $7.9 million.  “Wreck-It Ralph” is Disney’s first to finish at No. 1
since “Brave” opened in that spot in June. As of Nov. 1, the
studio ranked fourth among its peers this year with $1.22
billion in domestic box-office receipts, according to
BoxOfficeMojo.com.  Sony Corp. (6758)  is No. 1 with $1.52 billion,  “Disney’s animation division has had ups and downs of
late, but this film was perfectly marketed and benefited from
being a brand new family film at the start of the holiday movie
season,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com
Box-Office.  The sales for the label, Walt Disney Animation Studios,
beat the record set by “Tangled” ($48.8 million) in 2010. The
parent company also owns Pixar and Marvel studios, among others.  In “Wreck-It Ralph,”  John C. Reilly  provides the voice of
the title character, who grows weary of playing the villain in a
vintage arcade video game.  Denzel Washington  Ralph seeks fame by entering newer titles. His adventures
include a stint in a combat game and a sleek racing title. The
film also features the voices of  Sarah Silverman ,  Jane Lynch  and
Jack McBrayer. The movie was made for about $165 million,
according to Box Office Mojo, an industry website that forecasts
$51 million in opening-weekend sales.  In “Flight,” from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount Pictures ,
 Washington ’s character crash lands his plane after a midair
collision, saving most of his passengers and crew.  His status as a hero is questioned as details about his
personal life emerge. The film, directed by Robert Zemeckis,
also features Don Cheadle, Kelly Reilly and  John Goodman .  “‘Flight’ did a lot better than a lot of people thought it
would, and it proves once again that Denzel Washington is still
a major box office draw,” Dergarabedian said.  The martial-arts film “The Man With the Iron Fists” stars
Crowe as one of several warriors battling for power and wealth
in a feudal Chinese town. The film, from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
 Universal Pictures , also features Lucy Liu. Robert Diggs, also
known as Rza, directed the film and also takes a key role.  ‘Taken 2’  Returning films rounded out the top five this past weekend.  “Argo,” about the 1979 Iranian hostage crisis, fell to
third from first, taking in $10.2 million for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s
Warner Bros.  Ben Affleck , who directed the film, plays a CIA
operative who rescues Americans stranded in the Iranian capital,
Tehran.  Considered a probable Oscar nominee, the film is based on
the true story of a mission by the CIA and Canadian diplomats to
sneak six Americans out of  Iran  after the takeover of the U.S.
Embassy. They do so by pretending to make a movie.  “Taken 2,” from Fox, was fifth with $5.9 million. The
film is a sequel to the 2009 Liam Neeson action film.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 20 percent to
$124.6 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 4 percent to $8.89
billion, with attendance up 2.8 percent.  “A lot of people thought that with the aftermath of
 Hurricane Sandy  that it would impact theater going, but we had a
stronger weekend compared to the same time last year,”
Dergarabedian said. “A very strong film lineup fueled a very
robust box office.”  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Nov. 2 to Nov. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net 
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  