-- Egypt Index Drops to 2 Month Low as Court Disputes Irk Investors
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-11-04T14:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/abu-dhabi-shares-advance-on-aldar-sorouh-bets-as-dubai-declines.html
Egypt ’s benchmark stock index slumped
to the lowest level in two months, leading declines in  Middle
East  markets, on concern the government isn’t doing enough to
resolve disputes with investors.  Orascom Construction  Industries, Egypt’s largest publicly
traded company, decreased 2.4 percent. Property developer  Talaat
Moustafa Group (TMGH)  declined to the lowest level since August. The
EGX 30 Index lost 2.2 percent to 5,449.37, the lowest since
Sept. 2, at the close in Cairo.  The North African country’s measure, the world’s best
performer this year, fell 2.2 percent last month, the first such
drop since May, in selling partly triggered by uncertainty over
the status of government contracts with companies. The country’s
 Administrative Court  ruled last week that an 18 year-old
agreement that allowed  Centamin Plc. (CEY)  to extract gold in Egypt
was invalid. Centamin shares tumbled 38 percent last week in
London trading.  “The recent contradicting statements by the government
regarding current disputes with companies is weighing on
sentiment,” said Wafik Dawood, director of institutional sales
at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities.  Dawood said the “main overhang” in the market has been
President Mohamed Mursi’s Oct. 6 speech, in which he said the
government is seeking to recover money it’s owed by companies he
didn’t name. Mursi mentioned specific cases that led investors
to speculate he was referring to companies including Orascom
Construction Industries and Talaat Moustafa.  Contract Disputes  Orascom Construction Industries was indirectly accused in
the speech of avoiding tax on the 8.8 billion-euros ($11.3
billion) sale of its cement unit to  Lafarge SA (LG)  in 2007, two
months after listing it on the Cairo stock exchange. The
company, which has said the profit is exempted from tax under
Egyptian law, is holding talks with tax authorities. Orascom
Construction declined to 248.64 Egyptian pounds, the lowest
since July 25.  Talaat Moustafa faces a court hearing on Nov. 7 over land
it purchased from the government for a real estate project on
the outskirts of Cairo. Shares of Talaat, the largest publicly
traded property developer in Egypt, dropped 3 percent to 4.51
pounds, the lowest close since Aug. 22.  Centamin said last week that operations are continuing
normally and it plans to appeal. Prime Minister Hisham Qandil’s
government has said it will respect previously signed agreements
with investors.  Elsewhere in the Middle East, the  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  fell
0.3 percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s  index  slipped 0.2 percent and the
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  dropped 0.1 percent. Qatar’s  benchmark 
retreated 0.5 percent and  Kuwait ’s  gauge  lost 0.1 percent.  Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  advanced 0.3 percent, Bahrain’s  measure 
rose 0.1 percent and  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
added 0.2 percent.  Israel ’s  TA-25 index  fell 0.2 percent at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  Tel Aviv . The yield on the country’s 5.5 percent notes
due January 2022 rose one basis point, or 0.01 of a percentage
point, to 3.98 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  