-- ADM’s GrainCorp Takeover Seen Needing 18% Boost: Real M&A
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-11-05T06:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/adm-s-graincorp-takeover-seen-needing-18-boost-real-m-a.html
Traders are convinced  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC) 
is so alluring to Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. that eastern
Australia’s largest grain exporter will win the biggest takeover
offer increase in developed Asia.  With investors who profit from acquisitions expecting ADM
to raise its A$2.68 billion ($2.8 billion) offer or risk losing
to a rival bidder, GrainCorp’s stock ended last week  4.3 percent 
higher than the proposal of A$11.75 a share. That’s further
above the offer price than any pending takeover in the developed
Asia Pacific region valued at more than $100 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank AG said other
agricultural deals imply GrainCorp should fetch A$13.90 a share,
13 percent greater than last week’s price and 18 percent more
than the current bid.  The scrutiny Australian regulators will give any foreign
buyer will also motivate Decatur, Illinois-based  ADM (ADM)  to raise
its bid to help reach an agreement with GrainCorp’s board, said
Churchill Capital Ltd. Sydney-based GrainCorp, which operates
seven of the eight ports from which grain is shipped in bulk
from Australia’s east coast, is the last publicly traded wheat
merchant of its scale in Australia and could attract other
bidders, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  “If you want to be a player in one of the largest wheat
export markets globally, then this is a must-have asset,” Rhett Kessler, who helps manage about A$1.3 billion at Pengana Capital
Ltd. in Sydney, said in a phone interview. “If ADM don’t buy
these assets now, they may not get another chance. The first bid
is never the final price, and there are many other participants
in this market that would have interest in this asset.”  Australian Farmers  GrainCorp, due to publish its full-year earnings report on
Nov. 15, has yet to respond to ADM’s offer and has appointed
financial and legal advisers. Angus Trigg, a GrainCorp
spokesman, declined to comment. Jackie Anderson, an ADM
spokeswoman, also wouldn’t comment on the company’s proposed bid
price for GrainCorp.  ADM, the world’s largest corn processor, said Oct. 19 that
it boosted its GrainCorp stake to 14.9 percent from 4.9 percent
and wants to buy the rest of the company. Three days later,
GrainCorp said it received the A$11.75-a-share cash offer, which
values the business at A$2.68 billion excluding debt.  In addition to its infrastructure, which includes  21
million metric tons  of storage capacity at more than 280 inland
grain-handling sites, GrainCorp would give ADM annual production
of more than 1 million tons of malt.  Rising Population  “With GrainCorp you have a large terminal network that can
move grain from local farmers to export markets through its own
ports,” said Tom Leske, a sales trader at Churchill Capital in
 Singapore  and a former employee of the Australian company.
“This gives it ready access to Asian and east African markets,
which is where the key growth is.”  Australia was the world’s largest wheat exporter after the
U.S. last season, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. The nation shipped  24.5 million  tons of wheat in
the year through September, the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences estimates.  After the nation’s wheat production and exports climbed to
all-time highs, analysts estimate that GrainCorp’s net income
for the year that ended in September rose to a record A$216
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. With the
government forecasting a 24 percent drop in wheat production for
the crop currently being harvested, earnings are projected to
fall to A$171 million in fiscal 2013, according to the average
analyst estimate.  Food Demand  Still, rising populations and incomes are boosting demand
for food commodities in Asia and  emerging markets . World food
production will need to expand 70 percent by 2050 as the global
population swells by 2 billion, according to the United Nations.
Countries will spend more than $1 trillion on food imports for a
third year in 2012, the UN estimates.  That outlook has driven several other large agricultural
acquisitions, including Glencore International Plc’s agreement
in March to buy Canada’s Viterra Inc. for C$6.1 billion ($6.1
billion), excluding debt. In May, Marubeni Corp. said it would
purchase Gavilon Group LLC for $3.6 billion, excluding debt.  GrainCorp agreed in August to spend about A$472 million on
Gardner Smith Group, Australia’s second-largest oilseed crusher,
and Integro Foods, Australia and New Zealand’s largest refiner
of edible fats and oils.  GrainCorp has traded above ADM’s A$11.75 offer since the
day it was announced last month amid expectations that other
bidders would emerge, either winning control of the company with
a higher offer or forcing ADM to pay more. At A$12.25, the
shares ended last week 4.3 percent above the offer. That’s a
larger gap than on any other takeover in developed nations in
the Asia-Pacific region valued at more than $100 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares slipped to A$12.21 in Sydney trading today.  Rival Bidders  “Given the nature of GNC’s assets in a rapidly
consolidating global market, as well as it being the last
available play in the Australian grains market of any real
significance, we believe there are a number of companies that
would potentially be interested,” JPMorgan analyst Stuart Jackson wrote in an Oct. 19 research note, referring to
GrainCorp by its stock ticker.  Potential buyers range from White Plains, New York-based
 Bunge Ltd. (BG)  to Hong Kong’s  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , Jackson wrote.  Susan Burns, a Bunge spokeswoman, declined to comment on
any interest the company may have in GrainCorp. Stephen Brown, a
Hong Kong-based spokesman for Noble, said the company doesn’t
comment on speculation. Noble has said it plans to expand its
agricultural unit.  Summa Group,  Russia ’s biggest port operator, considered a
bid for GrainCorp before ADM made its offer, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last week.  Fair Price  ADM’s current bid values GrainCorp at 8 times forecast
fiscal 2013 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of A$400 million, according to Mark Wilson, a
Sydney-based analyst at Deutsche Bank. That compares with an
average of 9.2 times Ebitda paid in 15 Australian grain
acquisitions since 2000, including Agrium Inc.’s purchase of AWB
Ltd. and Viterra’s acquisition of ABB Grain Ltd., he wrote in an
Oct. 19 research note.  At the higher multiple, GrainCorp would fetch A$13.90, or
A$3.2 billion excluding debt, Wilson wrote.  “The current offer price of A$11.75 is not high enough,”
Lee Mitchell, Singapore-based special situations trader at
Religare Capital Markets Ltd., said by e-mail. “ADM will have
to increase the offer price to a minimum A$13 per share, with
A$14.10 per share being our fair value and more in line with
recent transactions.”  Financing Restrictions  ADM’s finances may restrict how high its bid can go.
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said on Oct. 20 that it may
downgrade ADM’s credit ratings because of uncertainty about how
it will fund the deal. With cash of $1.3 billion, the company
had net debt of  $8.6 billion  at the end of June, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “The big traders operate on a very slim margin,” Dennis Hulme, an analyst at BBY Ltd., said in a phone interview from
Sydney. “I expect them to be very price conscious. They’d like
to have the assets, but they don’t want to overpay.”  Still, ADM will be motivated to reach an agreement with
GrainCorp’s board to ease approval by  Australia ’s Foreign
Investment Review Board, Churchill Capital’s Leske said. FIRB
makes a recommendation to the country’s treasurer, who can block
a deal.  ‘Smoother Ride’  “It’s great if you have a friendly reception from the
target,” Malcolm Brennan, special counsel at law firm King &
Wood Mallesons, said by phone from Canberra. “That support says
they think it’s a good idea and will look after employees and
local operations, the key factors when looking at the national
interest test. You are going to have a smoother ride.”  Australia’s Treasury didn’t immediately reply to a written
request for comment sent to its media office.  ADM’s increase of its stake in GrainCorp last month is a
sign that it’s committed to winning control, Religare’s Mitchell
said.  “There’s always the expectation that when you put in an
initial offer, there’s a bit up your sleeves,” said Paul Jensz,
a Melbourne-based analyst at Octa Phillip Financial Group Ltd.
“They’ve said it’s a strategic imperative to be in this region,
buying grain from what they believe is a high-grain-quality
region.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  