-- Taiwan as Yuan Hub Seen Aiding Perng Currency Gain Fight
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n ,   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-11-05T03:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/taiwan-as-yuan-hub-seen-aiding-perng-currency-appreciation-fight.html
Taiwan ’s transformation into the
world’s second offshore  yuan  center, after Hong Kong, will give
central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan ammunition in his fight
against currency appreciation.  SinoPac Financial Holdings Co., overseeing the island’s
biggest yuan bond fund, and Uni-President Assets Management
Corp., part of a Taiwanese conglomerate, say they will consider
shifting more investments into higher-yielding assets
denominated in  China ’s currency as officials finalize a clearing
agreement first signed in August. Taiwan’s 10-year debt yields a
record-low 1.13 percent, compared with the 3.58 percent rate on
similar-maturity Chinese  government securities .  With China accounting for the largest share of Taiwan’s
overseas sales, the introduction of yuan deposits on the island
will encourage local exporters to keep more revenue in the
Chinese currency and cool demand for Taiwan dollars, according
to Uni-President. Taiwan’s dollar has strengthened 3.6 percent
against the greenback this year and traders say Perng,  central
bank  governor since the 1998 Asian financial crisis, has
intervened to stem gains most days in the past five months.  “Banks might offer high yuan deposit rates to attract
funding,” Samson Tu, a Taipei-based fund manager at Uni-
President, which manages $700 million of assets, said in an Oct.
30 interview. “From a long-term perspective, that’s going to
draw money from the Taiwan dollar base.”  New Exchange Rate  Taiwan’s dollar lost 0.4 percent against the yuan last
month, paring its advance to 2.7 percent this year. Since China
revalued its currency in July 2005, the island’s dollar has
weakened 18 percent against the yuan, while the Japanese yen and
the  Singapore dollar  posted gains of 5.2 percent and 3.4 percent
versus the Chinese currency.  A yuan clearing agreement signed by both governments on Aug.
31 paved the way for the island’s corporations and individuals
to set up accounts in the Chinese currency. The pact allows
interbank trading of the  renminbi , creating a new  exchange rate 
for the currency. Previously, trading of the yuan was allowed
only in Hong Kong and China. The yuan is a denomination of
China’s currency, the renminbi.  While the island appointed  Bank of Taiwan  as its clearing
bank in September, Perng said on Oct. 29 that the deal will only
take effect once China selects its clearing bank after the 18th
Communist Party Congress that starts Nov. 8. The island’s own
yuan spot rate will be called “CNT,” Perng said on Aug. 31.  More Accessible  Funds in Taiwan can currently invest in the yuan in  Hong
Kong  by setting up accounts in the city, while onshore asset
managers are only allowed to sell Dim Sum bond funds on the
island that are settled mostly in Taiwanese dollars.  By allowing the yuan to be traded onshore, the currency
will become more accessible to asset managers as well as
corporations and individuals, Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, said in an Oct.
26 interview.  “People may want to save in the CNT because they probably
think the Chinese currency will be, in the long-run, stronger
than the Taiwan dollar,” Kowalczyk said. “They may want to
diversify and have exposure to the Chinese currency. It will
help to keep the appreciation of Taiwan’s dollar in check.”  Taiwan’s  trade surplus  with its cross-strait neighbor was
$78.7 billion in 2011, the biggest of any economy with China.
Two-way trade rose 10 percent to $160 billion last year,
according to Chinese government data.  China Growth  The island’s gross domestic product rose 1 percent in the
third quarter from a year earlier, after shrinking 0.18 percent
in the previous three months, official data show. China reported
that its  economy  expanded 7.4 percent last quarter, the slowest
pace in more than three years. The Chinese government is
confident of achieving annual targets, Xinhua News Agency
reported Premier  Wen Jiabao  as saying last month.  Taiwan’s dollar has risen 12 percent against the greenback
since the end of 2008, buoyed by monetary easing in the U.S.
that has increased the amount of dollars available to be
invested in higher-yielding emerging-market assets. South
Korea’s won has strengthened 15 percent over the same period.
The North Asian nation produces many of the same goods as Taiwan
such as electronics.  Perng, who told an annual meeting of the  Asian Development
Bank  in May 2010 that emerging-market economies should adjust
policies to address “disorderly” currency moves and consider
 capital controls , limited foreign investment in  government bonds 
and money-market products that year to counter gains in the
Taiwan dollar. His 15-year tenure, the longest for a central
bank governor among Asian economies tracked by Bloomberg, ends
in February 2013.  Taiwan Intervention  A slower appreciation of the island’s currency would help
local exporters compete. Taiwan’s overseas sales fell in seven
of the past nine months, official data show.  The Central Bank of the  Republic of China  (Taiwan) has
intervened to stem advances in the currency in late trading on
most days in the past five months, according to traders who
asked not to be identified, citing their firms’ policies. The
monetary authority’s mandate is to keep relative exchange-rate
stability and to intervene in the event of abnormal moves, Perng
said Sept. 26 in Taipei.  “When the market opens, I think there’ll be a lot of
interest from investors to shift their Taiwan dollar assets into
yuan,” said Vanessa Wu, a Taipei-based bond  fund manager  at
SinoPac Securities Investment Trust Co., which oversees NT$50
billion ($1.7 billion) of assets. “All wealth management
companies here are trying to be the first to tap this yuan
market.”  Currency Gains  In  Singapore , which is also trying to position itself as an
alternative offshore yuan center, the nation’s surging dollar
may hamper its goal as locals opt to keep their savings in a
faster-appreciating currency, according to Bank of China Ltd.
Singapore’s dollar has advanced 5.9 percent against the
greenback this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In U.S. dollar terms, investors will earn 5.9 percent on
yuan assets including interest income by the end of 2013,
compared with 1.9 percent for Taiwan dollar assets, according to
analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  Ruled separately since 1949 when the Nationalists fled to
the island after a civil war with Communist forces, Taiwan
restricts mainland investment in certain industries and limits
the number of tourists visiting from Asia’s largest economy.
China claims Taiwan as a province and has vowed reunification by
force if necessary.  Yuan Deposits  Taiwan’s offshore banking units held 17.5 billion of yuan
deposits at the end of August, more than three times the amount
at the start of the year, central bank data show. In Hong Kong,
 deposits  have reached 546 billion yuan since being first allowed
in 2006.  Some 38 percent of Taiwanese with liquid assets of at least
NT$3 million are interested in setting up yuan accounts within
the next six months, and over 70 percent were attracted by the
prospect of appreciation, according to a  HSBC Bank  (Taiwan) Ltd.
report released Sept. 4.  Yuan deposits may  comprise  10 percent of total funds in
Taiwan in two years, The Bankers Association of the Republic of
China said in a statement on Sept. 19. The island has $1.1
trillion in its banking system, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “If you have a target of 10 percent of the total deposit
base to be in CNT in a short period of time, that’s a lot less
demand for Taiwanese dollars,” Andy Ji, a Singapore-based
foreign-exchange strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) ,
said in a Oct. 25  interview. “I’m sure Taiwan won’t mind
having a weaker Taiwan dollar because it runs a very large trade
surplus with the mainland.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  