-- Aldar, Sorouh Rally Before Net as Investors Await Merger Update
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-11-04T11:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/aldar-sorouh-rally-before-net-as-investors-await-merger-update.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh Real
Estate Co. (SOROUH)  rose before  Abu Dhabi ’s biggest real estate companies
post quarterly results this week and as investors await an
update on a potential merger.  Abu Dhabi-based Aldar, the biggest developer in the United
Arab Emirates capital, climbed 0.7 percent, the largest gain
since Oct. 23, to 1.37 dirhams at the close in the emirate.
Sorouh advanced 2.3 percent to 1.36 dirhams, the highest close
March 15. The  ADX Real Estate Index (ADRE)  increased 1 percent while
the  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell 0.2 percent. The stocks were the most
traded by volume on the benchmark gauge today.  Both companies will hold board meetings on Nov. 6 on third-
quarter results and to “consider general business,” they said
in separate statements last week. Aldar expects a decision on
the potential merger “toward the end of” October, deputy Chief
Executive Officer Mohammed Al Mubarak said Oct. 1, adding the
companies were still conducting due diligence.  “We were expecting a merger update by the end of October,
and are now seeing some momentum ahead of the scheduled board
meeting on Tuesday,” said  Julian Bruce , the Dubai-based head of
institutional trading at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  The developers, which have played an integral part in Abu
Dhabi’s drive to turn itself into a tourism and business hub,
said in March they are studying a possible merger with the
“blessing” of the emirate’s government. Abu Dhabi bailed out
Aldar last year after  house prices  in the emirate slumped about
50 percent in the aftermath of the 2008 global credit crisis.  Aldar’s second-quarter profit more than tripled, while
Sorouh may post a  31 percent advance  in net income for the three
months ended Sept. 30 to 88 million dirhams ($24 million),
according to the  median estimate  of three analysts on Bloomberg.  Shares of Aldar have surged 49 percent this year and
Sorouh’s are up 60 percent, outpacing the Abu Dhabi gauge’s 11
percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  