-- Argentina’s Fernandez Popularity Dives Since Election
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-05T01:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/argentina-fernandez-popularity-halves-in-year-since-re-election.html
(Corrects to include president’s first name in first
paragraph.)  Argentine President Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner’s popularity has more than halved in a
year since she was re-elected by a landslide, according to a
Management & Fit poll.  Fernandez’s popularity fell in October to 28 percent, the
poll published today showed, from 63.3 percent when she won a
second term by 54 percent of the votes in October 2011. The
index showed a 3 percentage point recovery from a 24.3 percent
in September.  “The president has lost a lot of political capital in only
a few months,” said Mariel Fornoni, director of the polling
company, in a telephone interview. “The lack of government
response to inflation, crime, corruption has generated a lot of
bad feeling.”  Fernandez, 59, is struggling to stem inflation, which
private economists’ estimates at more than 20 percent, while
 South America ’s second-biggest economy is showing signs of
stagnating. In the second-quarter, the economy failed to expand
for the first time in three years.  Fernandez’s decline in popularity comes at a time when some
of the government’s supporters are seeking to amend the
constitution to allow the president to run for a third time.
Lawmaker Diana Conti said on Oct. 31 in an interview with Radio
Continental that the “dumb alternacy” of presidents set by the
constitution is “ridiculous.”  On Nov. 8, Argentines upset with inflation, crime and
attempts to change the Constitution, plan to mount a second
protest this year. On Sept. 13, protesters staged the biggest
demonstration against the government since 2008, when
Fernandez’s plan to raise agriculture export taxes led to four
months of protests throughout the country.  As a constitutional amendment will require the approval of
two-thirds of Congress, Fernandez is counting on the 2013 mid-
term elections to add lawmakers to her coalition.  The president has sidestepped questions about her political
future.  “The constitution doesn’t allow my re-election as
president, so this is beyond what I want. It’s not my
responsibility to reform the constitution,” Fernandez said in a
Sept. 28 exchange with students at  Harvard University  in
Cambridge, Mass. “It doesn’t depend on me.”  On Oct. 31, 28 opposition senators signed a statement
pledging to vote against any attempt to modify the country’s
constitution.  Management & Fit’s poll of 2,100 people was conducted from
Oct. 18 to Oct. 30 and has a margin of error of 2.3 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  