-- Australian Services Industry Shrank for Ninth Month in October
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-04T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/australian-services-industry-shrank-for-ninth-month-in-october.html
Australia ’s services industry
contracted in October for a ninth straight month, reinforcing
the central bank’s decision last month to cut its benchmark
 interest rate , a private survey showed.  The performance of services  index  was 42.8 in October
compared with 41.9 in September,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) 
and the Australian Industry Group said in Sydney today. Fifty is
the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia last month ended a three-
meeting  pause  in rate reductions as it seeks to revive demand in
industries outside a resource boom that policy makers say may
crest at a lower level than previously expected. The strength of
mining investment has boosted the local currency, which in turn
has hurt tourism, education and retail industries.  The survey reflects the economy’s “significant structural
adjustment due to the high Australian dollar, very cautious
consumers, and the substantial fiscal tightening under way,”
John Peters, senior economist economist in Sydney at
Commonwealth Bank, said in a statement.  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board lowered the
overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage point last
month to 3.25 percent. Traders are pricing in a 49 percent
chance policy makers will do so again tomorrow, according to
swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today’s report showed the index’s gauge for sales edged
down to 37.6 from 37.8, and the reading for new orders rose to
40.9 from 36.9. The employment indicator slid to 44.1 from 48.4,
the report showed.  Selling prices climbed to 44.7 from 43.7, while the wages
measure dropped to 54.3 from 58.4, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index. The report
measures sales, new orders, deliveries, inventories and
employment for companies such as banks, real-estate agents,
insurers, restaurants, transport firms and retailers to compile
the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  