-- Australia’s Budget Surplus Goal Is Unachievable, Deloitte Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-11-04T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/australia-s-budget-surplus-goal-is-unachievable-deloitte-says.html
The Australian government will fail
to deliver a pledged budget surplus before an election in 2013,
with the nation set to extend a run of deficits to at least six
years, Deloitte Access Economics said.  The underlying cash deficit will be A$4.2 billion ($4.4
billion) in the 12 months ending June 30 and A$5.1 billion the
year after, Chris Richardson of the Canberra-based research
company said in a report released today. Even so, the current
year will see a A$40 billion improvement from the prior year,
said Richardson, a former Treasury economist.  “Revenues are volatile -- increasingly so -- meaning that
promising surpluses that are wafer thin is courageous,” said
Richardson, referring to the government’s projected A$1.08
billion surplus at its mid-year review released two weeks ago.
“It’s too easy to see those surpluses melt amid relatively
small shifts in the economy.”  Prime Minister Julia Gillard is bidding to end four years
of deficits heading into an election year with polls showing her
government neck-and-neck with the opposition Liberal-National
coalition. As the government reins in spending, she’s putting
the onus on the central bank to further reduce the highest
benchmark interest rate among major developed nations to bolster
a slowing economy.  Deloitte Access projects mining and petroleum taxes will
fall A$3.3 billion short of the government’s estimates and,
together with weaker company tax revenue and other levies, leave
overall collections A$4.7 billion below last month’s forecast.
It predicts that shortfall will swell to A$5.8 billion in the
year ending June 30, 2014.  “Commodity prices have had a hissy fit,” Richardson said
in the report. “And the Australian dollar hasn’t yet fallen
alongside commodity prices, meaning mining revenues --
denominated in Australian dollars -- have taken something of a
bath in recent months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  