-- Basel Delay Should Carry Consequences, Mexico Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-11-04T23:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/basel-delay-should-carry-consequences-mexico-says.html
 The Group of 20 nations should
create enforcement mechanisms to punish members that don’t begin
implementing new banking rules by year-end, a Mexican Finance
Ministry official said.  The G-20 should ensure that banks from nations that fail to
implement  Basel III rules  don’t have an unfair advantage when
operating in countries that have fulfilled the requirements,
said Manuel Valle, head of the finance ministry’s banking unit.
Basel III strengthens banks’  capital requirements  and standards
for liquidity and leverage.  For nations that don’t comply with the rules, “now it
seems like nothing happens,” said Valle, the head of the
ministry’s banking unit, in an interview in Mexico City, where
his nation is hosting a meeting of G-20 finance ministers. “If
these measures were agreed upon at the G-20 level, we have to
find mechanisms within the G-20 to require that everyone
complies with them.”  European Union lawmakers and officials discussed pushing
back when lenders need to start phasing in the rules by as much
as a year on concern that pressing ahead with the original
timetable may drive up costs, according to three people familiar
with the talks last month.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said Oct. 29
there’s a “high probability” that some nations won’t meet a
Jan. 1, 2013, deadline for overhauling their bank capital rules.  Broad Statement  Valle recommended Basel enforcement be taken up at future
G-20 meetings, saying it probably won’t emerge from this week’s
sessions. The communique to be released by ministers and central
bankers after their meeting will probably include a broad
statement reaffirming the group’s commitment to implementing the
rules, Valle said.  He added that there appear to be no plans within the G-20
to push back the timetable for Basel III compliance.  Angel Gurria , Secretary-General of the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and a
former Mexican finance minister, said he didn’t think a delay in
implementing rules would necessarily help a country’s banks.  “The market is taking care of that; nobody is going to
wait until 2019 to be ready,” Gurria said in an interview,
referring to the deadline for full implementation of the new
capital requirements. Having the rules in place is a
“competition question” for banks, he said.  “Sometimes banks have to take difficult, painful decisions
so the system can have more resilience,” Gurria told reporters
at an event on the sidelines of the G-20 meeting. “Time is
running out because the market is very severely honing in on
these numbers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  