-- Bill Clinton Is Already a Sure Election-Day Winner
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-11-04T15:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/bill-clinton-is-already-a-sure-election-day-winner.html
Whoever captures the White House on
Nov. 6, the election season produced one clear winner: William Jefferson Clinton.  The 42nd president, starting with his speech at the
Democratic National Convention establishing the predicate for
President  Barack Obama ’s economic message, set a new standard
for effective political surrogates. Republicans, including more
than a few who voted, on specious grounds, to impeach him 14
years ago, extolled the good old days of the Clinton presidency.
There is no more popular political figure.  If Obama wins he should be much more solicitous of Clinton
in a second term. The relationship between the two political
figures has improved. Clinton’s stature is off the charts, given
his unsurpassed political instincts and standing at home and
around the globe, and the fact that his wife will be the early
favorite to be the next Democratic presidential nominee.  If  Mitt Romney  wins, Clinton becomes the patriarch of the
loyal opposition, the most effective advocate against Republican
efforts to govern from the conservative right.  “ Bill Clinton  has an incredible shelf life,” says Vic Fazio, a former Democratic U.S. representative. “Whether
speaking to the convention or working as small fundraiser the
magic is still there. Bill Clinton never walks away.”  Debate Stumble  If the president is defeated he’ll remain a historic
figure, the first black president. Much of his legacy, including
the  health-care bill  and financial-regulation overhaul, will be
shredded by Republicans. And Democrats will say the defeat was
self-inflicted because the president and his top advisers
decided to coast during the first debate. He could have knocked
out Romney; instead he let his opponent back in the fight.  In defeat, Romney would be a political pariah. Other
defeated candidates --  Bob Dole ,  John McCain  -- remain respected
figures within the party. Romney will be seen as a mediocre
candidate, a chameleon, and an unprincipled political
opportunist who snatched defeat from the jaws of victory. There
will be few invites to Republican celebrations such as the
Lincoln Day dinners.  Political pollsters have a lot at stake, too. Two of the
most controversial are the Republican-centered Rasmussen
Reports, whose daily surveys tend to favor that party, and the
Democratic-oriented Public Policy Polling, whose surveys tilt in
the other direction. What they share is a methodology of huge
volume, because they conduct automatic surveys, or robo-calls,
in which respondents simply push keypad buttons to express
preferences.  The more established pollsters doubt the validity of this
approach, because it includes very few mobile phones. Both
 Rasmussen Reports  and PPP insist they adjust for this omission.  Other major polltakers pay extra to buy a mobile-phone
sample. Peter Hart, who conducts the Wall Street Journal/NBC
polls, says 30 percent of his respondents are mobile-phone
users. Ann Selzer, who polls for Bloomberg and the Des Moines
Register, sets the quota at 25 percent.  The Democratic pollster Stan Greenberg argues that at least
a third of voters would be missed without contacting mobile
phones, which are disproportionately used by young people and
minorities.  No pollster has more at stake than the venerable Gallup
organization, whose daily tracking poll includes 50 percent
mobile phones. It has consistently given Romney an advantage
over the last several weeks. Other pollsters question Gallup’s
methodology for defining likely voters, arguing it’s outdated;
Gallup says it stands by its results.  Polling Models  Then there is Nate Silver, a politics and sports
statistical guru who runs thousands of models. He became a
legend in 2008 when his fivethirtyeight.com models correctly
predicted all 35 Senate contests and 49 of the 50 state outcomes
in the presidential race. Now at the  New York  Times, he says
there is a greater than 80 percent probability that Obama wins
re-election. The Silver legend will either be embellished or
diminished this week.  There’s no such risk for Clinton, who will be riding high
even in a Romney presidency. He’ll be the Democrats’ patriarch
as he seeks to persuade his wife to pick up the torch in 2016.  He’d do the same in a second Obama term. It’s more
interesting to speculate about the role he might play in that
administration.  That largely would be up to Obama. If he is smart -- and if
he ignores the pettiness of some advisers -- he’ll periodically
talk to his predecessor on policy even more than politics. In
the first term, former White House Chief of Staff  Rahm Emanuel 
regularly checked in with Bill Clinton. The current director of
the National Economic Council,  Gene Sperling , still does. Before
the Democratic Convention, the president only went through the
motions of consulting with and cultivating Clinton.  During this campaign, the 66-year-old former president has
done about 100 events, helping more than 50 congressional
candidates and going on dozens of occasions wherever Team Obama
asked.  On the night of Nov. 3, Clinton and Obama, joined at the
hip politically, electrified a crowd of 24,000 in Bristow,
Virginia. A raspy-voiced Clinton effusively praised the
incumbent, especially for his handling of the economy, and
assailed Romney’s economic positions and his flip-flops on the
rescue of the U.S. automobile industry. A buoyant Obama called
his predecessor the “secretary of explainin’ stuff.”  Hours later, they headed to  New Hampshire  for a final joint
rally; Clinton would then be off to  Pennsylvania  to thwart a
last-minute Republican bid for an upset.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 