-- Canada Lures Petronet With Gas as Ambani Fails: Corporate India
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-11-05T11:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/canada-lures-petronet-with-gas-as-ambani-fails-corporate-india.html
Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLNG) ,  India ’s biggest
liquefied natural gas importer, plans to buy the fuel from
 Canada  to meet surging demand as output from a block operated by
billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s company falls.  Petronet, based in New Delhi, is looking to Canada as Prime
Minister Stephen Harper visits India this week to attract buyers
and investors in Asia. Petronet has met Canada’s Natural
Resources Minister Joe Oliver and wants to buy the fuel from
projects on the North American nation’s east coast, Chief
Executive Officer A.K. Balyan said in an interview in Sydney.  Petronet is seeking contracts from  Australia  to  Russia  to
meet India’s energy demand that is estimated to more than double
by 2035. The expansion has acquired urgency after gas production
at Ambani-controlled  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s biggest field
dropped 70 percent in about two years slashing supplies to power
stations and fertilizer plants in the world’s fourth-biggest
fuel consumer.  “We are looking for additional supplies,” Balyan said on
Nov. 2. Canada has recognized “India as a preferred nation to
deal with and we have indicated our desire to participate,” he
said.  India’s energy demand is forecast to more than double by
2035 to 49.2 quadrillion British thermal units from 21.1
quadrillion Btu in 2008, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration. The share of gas in India’s power
generation mix will expand from 11 percent in 2008 to 16 percent
in 2035, according to the EIA.  Record LNG Imports  The country’s LNG imports climbed to a record 10.13 million
metric tons in the year ended March 31, according to oil
ministry data. Overseas purchases were 4.4 million metric tons
in the five months through August, the data show.  “Many factories, power and fertilizer plants are suffering
because of erratic and uncertain gas supply,” said K.K. Mital,
a New-Delhi based fund manager at Globe Capital Market Ltd.
“Reliance’s production is also falling sharply, and that adds
to the problem. More and more will need to be imported.”  Natural gas production from Reliance’s two main areas in
the KG-D6 block is 20.5 million cubic meters a day and should
have reached 81 million this year, the oil ministry said in a
Nov. 1  statement. It has been dropping after production peaked
at 67 million in the year ended March 2010. Reliance has said
technical difficulties have affected production.  Tushar Pania, a spokesman for Reliance, didn’t reply to an
e-mail seeking comment. Ambani is Asia’s second-richest man with
a net worth of $23.7 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  ‘Underutilize Capacity’  Petronet is increasing import capacity two-and-a-half times
to 25 million metric tons a year by expanding an existing plant
at Dahej in the west Indian state of Gujarat to 15 million tons
a year from 10 million tons and starting a new 5 million-ton
project in the south Indian town of Kochi in the first quarter
of 2013. It will set up a new terminal on the country’s east
coast by 2016.  The projects will require more than $1 billion of debt,
finance director R.K. Garg said in June.  “As Petronet ramps up import capacity, its very important
they don’t underutilize it because they will be spending a lot
to build them,” said  Alok Deshpande , a Mumbai-based analyst
with Elara Securities Ltd., who recommends investors  accumulate
the stock. “That is going to make them go out and aggressively
get a lot of supply contracts.”  Petronet’s  shares  have increased 10 percent this year,
lagging behind a 21 percent surge in the benchmark Sensitive
Index. The stock was little changed at 172 rupees at the close
in Mumbai. Of the 59 analysts who rate the company’s stock, 44
 recommend  a buy, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Energy Superpower’  The company’s quarterly  profit  rose to a record 3.1 billion
rupees ($58 million) in the three months ended Sept. 30, after
its LNG margin rose, Mayur Matani and Nishit Zota, analysts at
ICICIdirect.com, wrote in an Oct. 22 report.  Canada, home to the world’s third-biggest oil reserves,
will require almost C$650 billion ($652 billion) of investments
to develop the country’s biggest resource projects over the next
decade, according to Natural Resources Minister Oliver. Prime
Minister Harper, who has touted Canada as an emerging “energy
superpower,” has called it a national priority to build
infrastructure that will let Canada diversify energy exports
away from the U.S. and ship oil and gas to Asia.  Still, Canada blocked a C$5.2 billion bid by Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. for Calgary-based  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ) ,
according to a Oct. 19 statement. Petronas, as  Malaysia ’s state-
owned oil company is called, was given 30 days to appeal or make
concessions.  ‘Good Friend’  Prime Minister Harper’s government on Nov. 3 also extended
its review of Beijing-based  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion takeover
of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  for a second time, re-setting the deadline to Dec.
10. Canada’s government reviews foreign takeovers valued at more
than C$330 million and considers six main factors in determining
whether an acquisition provides a “net benefit.”  Harper plans to travel to India, the  Philippines  and Hong
Kong from Nov. 4 to Nov. 11. Tomorrow, he’s scheduled to meet
India’s Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who he says is “one of
Canada’s good friends and partners,” according to the text of a
prepared speech Nov.1  Gazprom Contract  Petronet has a 20-year contract to buy 1.5 million tons of
LNG a year from  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s A$43 billion ($45 billion)
Gorgon development off the northwest coast of Australia
beginning in about 2015, Balyan said in Sydney. Gorgon is
scheduled to start production in late 2014, Chevron said in
September.  “We need to have gas for the next three years, so we are
in discussions with several suppliers for the short term to
start with, and perhaps for the long term too,” Balyan said.  The Indian LNG buyer has met several “major companies”
operating in Australia and is interested in acquiring more gas
contracts or a stake in a project, he said.  “Today we have different options coming up,” he said.
“New projects in new countries.”  Petronet on June 1 signed a preliminary agreement with OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest gas exporter, to buy 2.5 million
tons annually of the fuel for two decades.  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) , a
shareholder in Petronet, agreed to buy LNG from the Moscow-based
company for 20 years starting in 2018 or 2019, according to an
Oct. 1 statement.  Petronet is in “advanced discussions” with Gazprom to
complete the deal, Balyan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  