-- Carlsberg Will Build College as First Development at Valby Site
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-11-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/carlsberg-will-build-college-as-first-development-at-valby-site.html
A consortium led by  Carlsberg A/S (CARLA)  has
agreed to build a campus for a local college as the first
property development at the Valby site in Copenhagen where the
Danish brewer started production more than 150 years ago.  An investor group, in which Carlsberg holds a 25 percent
stake, plans to build the facilities for University College
Capital, an independent self-governing  community college , the
brewer said in an e-mail. The college will lease the buildings
for an undisclosed amount for 30 years and then buy them for 1.5
billion kroner ($260 million), Carlsberg said.  Four years ago, Carlsberg moved all of its production to
Fredericia in western Denmark from Valby, where the company was
founded in 1847. The brewer kept its corporate headquarters, a
museum and its specialty brewery in Valby and announced plans to
sell the rest of the 567,000 square-meter (6.1 million square-
foot) site, which is located in the south western part of the
Danish capital.  In April this year, Carlsberg sold a 75 percent stake in
the group developing the site to investors including PFA Pension
A/S, Pensam Forsikring A/S,  Topdanmark A/S (TOP)  and the Realdania
Fund, which owns a 10 percent stake in  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)  The
brewer in August booked a 1.7 billion-krone pretax gain from the
sale of the 75 percent stake.  The group plans to develop the site, dubbed “Carlsberg
City,” into a mixed housing and commercial neighborhood. The
college, which still needs the parliament's approval, will be 
the first major development at the site.  “The government needs to approve the University College’s
agreement to go ahead with its campus plans on the Valby site,”
Ben Morton, a Carlsberg spokesman, said in an e-mail. “It has
been discussed for the past two to three years and we hope it
will be accepted.”  According to parliament records, the assembly’s Finance
Committee is set to discuss the contracts for the planned 55,000
square-meter facility before the end of the year.  Denmark ’s
parliament is required to approve public works exceeding a value
of 100 million kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  