-- China Names Two to Military Commission Ahead of Power Shift
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-11-05T01:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/china-central-military-commission-names-two-vice-chairmen-1-.html
The Chinese Communist Party Central
Committee named two generals as vice chairmen of the Central
Military Commission, marking the beginning of two weeks of
appointments as part of a once-a-decade leadership transition.  The committee promoted Xu Qiliang and Fan Changlong to the
commission that controls  China ’s armed forces, the official
 Xinhua News Agency  reported yesterday. It also affirmed former
Politburo member Bo Xilai’s expulsion from the party.  Xu and Fan “are career professional soldiers,” said Steve
Tsang, director of the China Policy Institute at the University
of Nottingham in England. “Fan is an infantry man who had held
important combat commands and a professional soldier. Xu is a
career  Air Force  officer and commander of the Air Force.”  China’s Communist Party, not the government, oversees the
 People’s Liberation Army . Controlling the military -- whose 670
billion  yuan  ($107.3 billion) budget this year is exceeded only
by that of the U.S. -- is seen as central to the party’s ability
to maintain power. Chairman  Mao Zedong , the first leader of the
People’s Republic, said “political power grows out of the
barrel of a gun.”  Vice President  Xi Jinping  is also a vice chairman of the
military commission. President  Hu Jintao , who is set to hand
over his leadership of the party to Xi at a party congress that
begins Nov. 8, is the commission’s chairman.  ‘Great Respect’  Fan is commander of the PLA’s Jinan Military Area Command,
according to the government’s website  www.gov.cn . Xu is
commander of the PLA’s air force. Fan is 65 and Xu is 62,
according to biographical details provided by Xinhua.  Huang Jing, a professor of political science at  National
University  of Singapore, said Xu Qiliang “is professional and
enjoys great respect from PLA officers.”  Xu’s advancement may be a sign that the PLA is moving to
more “joint” operations among the army, navy and air force
because most past vice chairmen have been army officers, said
Taylor Fravel, a political science professor specializing in
China at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  Fan was named a vice chairman after not having served on
the commission. He is “a real professional, with extensive
command experience,” Fravel said. Xu was a member of the
commission prior to yesterday’s announcement.  ‘Reasonable’ Promotion  “Their promotion seems reasonable to me and do not
indicate something particularly untoward,” Tsang said.  The two generals may replace Guo Boxiong and Xu Caihou,
both members of the ruling Politburo. Guo and Xu Caihou weren’t
mentioned in the report announcing the appointments, and they
are still listed on the military’s  website  as vice chairmen of
the commission.  The party’s central committee also endorsed a decision made
in September by the Politburo to expel Bo, the former Chongqing
Communist Party chief, from the party, as well as former railway
minister  Liu Zhijun . Bo’s wife was convicted in August of
murdering British businessman Neil Heywood. Liu was toppled in a
corruption probe.  “Fighting corruption and promoting cleanness and honesty
in a resolute manner is a consistent political stand held by the
 Communist Party of China  and also a key political issue that is
of major concern to the people,” the central committee said in
a communique released yesterday after its meeting that ran from
Nov. 1 to Nov. 4.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  