-- Conservatives Conspire to Keep Carbon Economy of 1896
-- B y   C a r l   P o p e
-- 2012-11-04T23:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/conservatives-conspire-to-keep-carbon-economy-of-1896.html
It’s a given that  whoever  wins the
presidential race will inherit impossible hyperpartisanship.
This national division is said to go back to 2000, when the
election ended in a tie between  George W. Bush  and  Al Gore .  Yet if you look at the 2012  electoral map , you see how far
it has veered from the one 12 years ago.  Southern states that Bush owned -- Virginia and North
Carolina -- are now contested. Evangelical West Virginia and
Arkansas, where Gore came close, now belong to Mitt Romney,
America’s first Mormon nominee. President Barack Obama has built
a bulwark in the old Republican manufacturing heartland --
Michigan, Illinois, Pennsylvania, possibly Ohio -- and on the
coasts. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, builds his
map out from Texas into the heartland.  If this year’s political map can be said to resemble that
of any previous election, it is 1896, not 2000, and the parties
this time are flipped. The victory of the Republican William McKinley over the Democrat  William Jennings Bryan  was the final
round in a struggle between the pre-Civil War American economy
-- agrarian and localized -- and an emerging economy based on
centralized finance and commodity extraction.  This time, the emerging economy is built on knowledge-based
innovation, and Obama and his wing of the Democratic Party are
its torchbearers. The old economy, on the defensive, is
centralized and reliant on banks, commodities and fossil fuels.
Romney and the Republicans are its rear guard.  Party Hypocrisy  Obama’s state strongholds exemplify the disruptive new
economy, and Romney’s strength lies in the bastions of
agricultural, mineral and energy extraction and distribution.  Virginia  and  North Carolina  are in play because they have
knowledge hubs. West Virginia and Arkansas are still dominated
by coal, timber,  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  The
post-bailout revival of the auto industry has led to innovation
in the Rust Belt. The Detroit area is the clean-energy  patent 
capital of the country, and Ohio is catching that wave.  Also reflected on the map are contradictions in the  Tea
Party  movement, through whose portals Romney had to pass on his
way to the Republican nomination. It says it favors a small
federal government, but supports federal pre-emption of state
food-safety laws and environmental regulations. It backs cushy
state-tax breaks for new factories -- until those factories
produce wind turbines, solar panels or fuel cells. It favors
taxing consumption, not incomes -- until the consumption being
taxed is fossil fuels.  The Republicans are united. They have mortgaged both their
electoral arithmetic and their financial base to the incumbent
economy, even as it loses competitiveness. (Established, but
retrenching, industries are the most generous campaign donors.
They have the most to gain from government protection against
their challengers.)  The Democrats are unavoidably split. Obama has faced
continuing challenges within his governing coalition from
senators in old-economy strongholds, which commodity-and-carbon
Democrats once owned -- Montana ( Max Baucus ), Nebraska ( Ben Nelson , who is retiring), West Virginia ( Joe Manchin ) and
Louisiana (Mary Landrieu). The president’s increasing tilt
toward sounding friendly to fossil fuels has been driven by the
need to hold the loyalty of such carbon Democrats in order to
govern, even though he is unlikely to grab many electoral votes
in their states.  Obama’s signature environmental initiative -- cap-and-trade
climate legislation -- had turned into a showdown with old-
economy stalwarts, such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  American Electric
Power Co. (AEP) ,  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce.  Industrial Innovators  The battle is not between industries. Most sectors have
innovators and incumbents. Take chemicals. When  DuPont Co. (DD) 
determined that nylon and its other textile businesses had
become low-profit commodities, it sold them to Koch Industries
Inc. DuPont now focuses on high-tech, proprietary chemicals
needed for solar panels -- putting it on the opposite side of
the policy trenches from Koch. (Koch even  sued  DuPont for $745
million, claiming it didn’t invest enough in maintaining its
outmoded fiber factories.)  As a result, DuPont wants federal support for energy
innovation, because that translates into markets for its solar
chemicals. It doesn’t mind tougher  regulation  of toxic-chemical
releases because its facilities are now modern enough to comply.
DuPont is on the  side of change  -- better environmental
performance and less waste go along with more rapid turnover of
technology and capital stocks. Koch is against higher standards.
The change would strand the assets it acquired when it purchased
DuPont’s old nylon-making factories.  Technology companies -- whether in information,
biotechnology or clean energy -- are even more focused on
disrupting established monopolies.  If the old incumbent capitalism was driven by commodity
extraction, debt finance and all the lows -- low costs, low
wages, and low labor and regulatory standards -- the emerging
economy is powered by innovation and disruption. A company’s
main assets are intellectual property; its balance sheet relies
more heavily on equity, not debt; speed is of the essence.
Companies don’t mind higher environmental standards or middle-
class wages, as long as they don’t slow down investment and
innovations.  Electric utilities are also split. A coalition of utilities
that are less reliant on coal --  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ,  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ,
 Calpine Corp. (CPN)  and  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE)  -- urged the Environmental
Protection Agency to complete the cleanup of air pollution from
outmoded coal-power plants, while slow-moving incumbents such as
 Southern Co. (SO) , American Electric Power Co. and Luminant Energy
Co. tried to hold on to their old facilities for another decade.  The innovative power companies applaud what the Obama EPA
is doing -- their sluggish brethren join Romney and Peabody to
denounce Obama’s “war on coal.”  Democratic Split  Caught in the cross hairs are a set of heavy industries --
steel, aluminum, paper, rubber, construction -- and the unions
that represent many of their workers. As  Abraham Breehey  of the
International Brotherhood of Boilermakers pointed out to me at
the United Nations climate conference in Bali in 2007, the issue
for these players is not what technology makes steel, fires
boilers or transports goods. A mining company such as Rio Tinto
Plc is just as pleased to make money on rare earths for  wind
turbines  as it is on coal. What these players need is investment
certainty and economic dynamism.  Here the split among the Democrats hurts. Obama promised to
generate hundreds of thousands of jobs on energy upgrades for
homes and apartments, but his fear of opposition from Democrats
representing big banking states such as New York, Connecticut
and New Jersey allowed a shutdown of a  program  for financing
clean-energy retrofitting. He didn’t deliver on an old-economy
project either when he delayed the decision over the  Keystone 
gas pipeline until after the election. So contractors and union
construction workers, as well as the industries that supply
insulation or steel pipe, had lost out twice.  The risk isn’t that the old 20th-century economy will
prevail. New technology, depleted natural resources and climate
risk guarantee that it can’t. The risk is delay. During the
Gilded Age, new companies and industries injected huge sums into
politics to accelerate the transition from the agrarian economy
to the new world of monopoly finance and commodity extraction.  Today, that fading monopoly economy is spending millions of
dollars to poison and divide America’s politics. The desired
result -- to slow and obstruct the new economy -- is lethal for
the future and indulges those invested in the nation’s past.  (Carl Pope is a former chairman of the Sierra Club. The
opinions expressed are his own. This is the second of two
articles. Read the first one  here .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  improving federal economic
disaster aid  and on  why inequality wasn’t a big campaign issue ;
William D. Cohan on  how the next administration should deal with
Wall Street ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  how Bill Clinton is the big
winner  of this election; Pankaj Mishra on  Indonesia’s new
economic model  for Asia; Cass R. Sunstein on  why regulatory
reform will continue ;  Steven Greenhut  on  California’s post-
election future .  To contact the writer on this story:
Carl Pope at  carl.pope@sierraclub.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 