-- The Next President Is Sure to Break the Rules
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-11-04T16:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/the-next-president-is-sure-to-break-the-rules.html
In his interview with the Des Moines
Register in Iowa, outlining his priorities for his second term,
President  Barack Obama  made some brief remarks that received too
little attention:  “I’ve expressed a deep desire and taken executive action to
weed out regulations that aren’t contributing to the health and
public safety of our people. And we’ve made a commitment to look
back and see if there are regulations out there that aren’t
working, then let’s get rid of them and see if we can clear out
some of the underbrush on that. Again, that’s something that
should be non-ideological.”  With respect to regulation, some differences are certainly
ideological. Everybody knows that Obama and Republican nominee
 Mitt Romney  sharply disagree about financial regulation, health
care and environmental protection. What is less obvious is that
whoever is elected on Nov. 6, his administration will soon be
focusing on leading issues of regulatory reform. None of them is
the stuff of sound bites or headlines, but each one is
important.  1. Volume management: Since Jan. 1, 1981, the White House
 Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs  has reviewed more
than 41,000 significant rules. It is worth pausing over that
number. True, the Obama administration has approved a smaller
number of rules, through almost four years, than prior
administrations did in a corresponding period. In 2012, the
number of approved rules will be strikingly low by historical
standards. But especially in light of the current economic
situation, any president, Democratic or Republican, is going to
take steps to control the flow of new rules, particularly if
they are expensive.  A special challenge is that in multiple areas, Congress has
required agencies to issue rules, and it has imposed firm
deadlines by which they must do so. In addition, a number of
coming rules will qualify as important safeguards of public
safety and health. What will be required, with leadership from
the White House itself, is careful priority setting and
coordination of the actions of numerous agencies.  2. Simplification: In their different ways, Presidents  Bill Clinton ,  George W. Bush  and Obama have sought to simplify the
regulatory system by looking back at existing regulations,
including the tens of thousands approved since 1981, and by
streamlining or eliminating those that are unjustified. Obama’s
own unprecedentedly ambitious effort has produced more than 500
proposals for reform and more than $10 billion in five-year
savings. What he has required, and what a Romney administration
would almost certainly continue, are regular efforts to engage
the public to identify regulatory requirements that need to be
rethought. Agencies are now required to report, every six
months, on their progress. There is every reason to think that
continuing efforts could produce many billions of dollars in
additional savings, helping small businesses and ordinary
individuals in particular.  3. Cumulative burdens: Beginning under President  Ronald Reagan , Republican and Democratic administrations have subjected
regulations to careful scrutiny, trying to ensure that the
benefits justify the costs. Such scrutiny has proved helpful and
important in producing sensible rules.  It remains possible, however, that an industry or sector
will face a sensible rule from the Transportation Department and
another one from the Labor Department and yet another from the
Environmental Protection Agency -- and the cumulative effect of
the individually  sensible rules  will be anything but sensible.
The problem may come from redundancy and inconsistency. Or it
may come from the sheer accumulation of burdens, which can make
it difficult for small businesses, in particular, to focus on
business itself.  As Republicans (including Romney) and Democrats (including
Obama) have emphasized, Americans regulators need to take
significant steps to address the problem of cumulative burdens
without compromising public safety and environmental protection.
The regulatory look-back is one such step, and it is helping,
but in the near future it should be accompanied by careful
thinking about coming rules to reduce inconsistency and
cumulative burdens, perhaps especially in the domain of energy.  4. International regulatory harmonization: For many years,
American business has contended that in the modern economy, it
makes no sense to require companies to comply with frustratingly
different regulations across national boundaries. For example,
the U.S.,  Canada ,  Mexico ,  Germany ,  France  and the U.K. are often
in essential agreement about both values and facts. When they
impose different regulatory requirements, it may be because of a
simple failure of coordination. Advance coordination can
eliminate pointless redundancy and inconsistency. It can also
reduce the risk of a destructive race to the bottom, through
which nations jeopardize public health and safety.  Both Republican and Democratic administrations have
 undertaken  major efforts to eliminate unjustified disparities.
In recent years, the U.S. and Canada have made strides in
ensuring that national borders don’t become an economic
albatross. But a lot more remains to be done. In particular, the
U.S. and the European Union could do a great deal to rethink
regulatory differences that impose significant costs on
businesses and that undermine economic growth, without providing
additional protection to anyone.  In the campaign, and with the continuing debate over health
care and financial regulation, Republicans and Democrats have
naturally emphasized their disagreements. In the coming years,
however, some of the most important work shouldn’t divide the
parties. What matters is that it gets done.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and, most
recently, the author of “On Rumors: How Falsehoods Spread.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  improving federal economic
disaster aid  and on  why inequality wasn’t a big campaign issue ;
William D. Cohan on  how the next administration should deal with
Wall Street ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  how Bill Clinton is the big
winner  of this election;  Pankaj Mishra  on  Indonesia’s new
economic model  for  Asia ;  Steven Greenhut  on  California’s post-
election future ; Carl Pope on  what’s behind Mitt Romney’s anti-
environmentalism .  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 