-- Hedge Funds Reduce Bullish Bets Most in Five Months: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-11-05T21:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/hedge-funds-reduce-bullish-bets-most-in-five-months-commodities.html
Hedge funds cut bullish wagers on
commodities by the most since June as prices retreated to a
three-month low on mounting concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis
will worsen and U.S. growth slow.  Money managers reduced combined net-long  positions  across
18 U.S. futures and options in the week ended Oct. 30 by 11
percent to 1.05 million contracts, the lowest since July 10,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Copper holdings
fell to an eight-week low, and gold wagers are now the smallest
since September. Gasoline bets declined for a fourth week, and
those in oil reached the lowest level in four months as
 Hurricane Sandy  forced U.S. East Coast refineries to shut.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
fell a third week, the longest contraction since June.  Greece 
cut its economic outlook for 2013 on Oct. 31, and Spain delayed
asking for a bailout. U.S. lawmakers are at an impasse over tax
rises and spending cuts, and the presidential election takes
place tomorrow. Sales trailed analyst estimates at 59 percent of
U.S. companies that released third-quarter results through Nov.
2,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s hard to see upward price pressures in commodities
when we’re still seeing such slow growth,” said Rob Haworth, a
senior investment strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management in
 Seattle , which oversees about $111 billion in assets. “Supplies
are sufficient for current demand.”  Retreating  The S&P GSCI retreated 2 percent last week, with 15 of 24
components declining, led by gasoline and heating oil. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities advanced 0.6 percent, and
the dollar climbed 0.7 percent against a basket of six major
currencies, strengthening for a second week. Treasuries returned
0.1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows. The S&P gauge
rose 0.6 percent to settle at 629.85 today. It fell to 622.45
earlier, the lowest since July 16.  The global economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, the
slowest pace since the recession, the International Monetary
Fund said Oct. 9. The Washington-based group cited “alarmingly
high” risks of a steeper slowdown.  The 17-nation euro area’s jobless rate climbed to a record
11.6 percent in September, the European Union’s statistics
office said Oct. 31. The region’s debt crisis has pushed at
least five nations into recessions and economic confidence
dropped to the lowest in more than three years in October.  U.S. Economy  U.S. payrolls increased by 171,000 workers in October,
exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. The data followed reports showing stronger
manufacturing, construction spending and consumer  confidence .  An official Chinese purchasing managers’ index released
Nov. 1 indicated the first expansion in manufacturing in three
months. Reports also showed  Taiwan  resumed growth last quarter,
South Korean industrial production climbed for the first time in
four months in September and  Singapore ’s jobless rate fell to a
six-quarter low in the most recent period.  “We’re seeing signs of bottoming in the global economy,
and that should be supportive of commodity prices,” said
Newport Beach, California-based Mihir Worah, who manages Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Commodity Real Return Strategy Fund,
which had about $22 billion in assets as of Sept. 30. “People
are differentiating more among commodities, but overall we’re
still seeing pretty good inflows.”  Money managers added a net $16 million to commodity funds
in the week ended Oct. 31, with $154 million going to gold and
precious metals, according to  Cameron Brandt , the director of
research at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which
tracks money flows.  Fiscal Cliff  Stanley Crouch, who helps oversee $2 billion as chief
investment officer at New York-based Aegis Capital Corp., said
that investors are growing more concerned as the U.S. closes in
on the so-called fiscal cliff. That refers to more than $600
billion in tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect
in 2013 unless Congress can reach a budget compromise.  The issue has been among the topics in the campaigns of
President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney .  Net-long positions in copper plunged 61 percent to 6,964
contracts, CFTC data showed. Inventories of the metal tracked by
the Shanghai Futures Exchange reached a six-month high, a report
showed Nov. 2.  Bets on a gold rally fell 7.5 percent to 149,853 contracts,
the third straight drop, the CFTC data showed. Futures tumbled
the most in four months on Nov. 2 in New York, settling below
$1,700 an ounce for the first time in eight weeks. They gained
0.3 percent today.  Cotton Slides  Cotton net-longs tumbled 55 percent to 9,751 contracts.
Inventories in  China  may reach 9 million metric tons this
season, enough to cover the country’s supply deficit for the
next six years, Joe Nicosia, the chief executive officer of
Allenberg Cotton Co., said on Nov. 2 in Hong Kong. Futures fell
2.9 percent in New York last week.  In crude oil, net-long holdings fell 11 percent to 122,863
contracts, the lowest since June 19. Prices dropped to the
lowest in almost four months last week amid speculation that the
refinery shutdowns caused by Hurricane Sandy will add to ample
supplies. Gasoline wagers fell 4.4 percent to 72,134 contracts.  Damage from Sandy last week may subtract 0.1 to 0.2
percentage point from U.S. gross domestic product in the fourth
quarter as spending drops on services such as restaurant meals,
according to Mark Vitner, a senior economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte , North Carolina.  Agriculture  A measure of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators trimmed
bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 12 percent to
603,173 contracts.  Investors reduced their net-long position in corn by 16
percent to 236,382 contracts, the lowest since mid-July. Bullish
bets on sugar dropped 28 percent to 32,981 contracts.  “We’re still in a perilous state here, even with some
signs of stabilization lately,” Aegis Capital’s Crouch said.
“Chinese metrics have been better, but Europe is still in a big
slowdown. There’s uncertainty over what will happen after the
U.S. election, and how close to the brink we’ll get.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  