-- Egypt Authority to Appeal Centamin’s Sukari Ruling
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-11-04T18:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/egypt-authority-to-appeal-ruling-on-centamin-s-sukari-gold-mine.html
Egypt ’s mineral resources authority
will appeal a court ruling that annulled the Sukari gold mine
contract, sparking a sell-off in  Centamin Plc (CEY)  last week.  “We will appeal the decision, of course,” Egyptian
Mineral Resources Authority Chairman Fekry Youssef Mohamed said
in a phone interview today. “We don’t plan any amendments to
the agreement. We must respect what was signed.” The authority
has received a copy of the preliminary ruling from the Cairo-
based Administrative Court and operations at Sukari will
continue as normal, he said.  The court issued its ruling without having been presented
as evidence with the contract signed in 2005 with the then oil
minister giving the company operational rights in an additional
160km2 area, Oil Minister Osama Kamal said in an interview
today.  The company and EMRA will “submit the required documents
to clarify the situation and, in the end, the court will rule”
as it sees fit, Kamal said.  The state-run Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority didn’t
exercise enough oversight on gold extraction at the Sukari mine
and should “rectify” the violations, the  Administrative Court 
said on Oct. 30. The mine’s proven production to date is valued
at $875 million, of which the government’s share was only $19
million, the court said. Centamin operates the mine in a 50-50
joint venture with the mineral resources authority.  Appeal  Centamin’s  London-listed shares  fell as much as 59 percent,
the most on record, on Oct. 30, closing the week 38 percent
lower.  “I would assume that operations will continue whilst the
appeal is heard,” said  Julian Bruce , the Dubai-based head of
institutional trading at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “Very hard to
speculate, but it looks like a judiciary versus the government
battle is now on the cards”  The case was filed by Hamdy El Fakharany, a lawmaker in the
now-dissolved parliament, on the grounds that the concession
granted to Centamin had not been submitted for parliamentary
approval. The deal was signed in 1994 under the rule of former
President  Hosni Mubarak   who was ousted in a popular uprising
last year, and covered a 30-year renewable period, according to
the state-run Middle East News Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  