-- Melbourne Cup Goes Global Luring Qatari Sheikh, U.K. Bettors
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-11-05T06:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/melbourne-cup-goes-global-luring-qatari-sheikh-u-k-bettors.html
The Melbourne Cup, billed in
 Australia  as the race that stops a nation, is riding the recent
string of international winners to bolster its appeal elsewhere.  When the 24 horses line up for the A$6.2 million ($6.4
million) handicap tomorrow, organizers expect a Flemington
Racecourse crowd topping 100,000, while about A$150 million is
set to be wagered nationally according to  Tabcorp Holdings Ltd. (TAH) 
U.K. bookmakers say they expect a record 4 million pounds ($6.4
million) in bets on a race that’s available live or on replay to
an estimated 760 million homes in 120 countries.  Global interest in an event that commands the attention of
three quarters of Australia’s adult population has been
increasing since the  Victoria Racing Club  opened the 151-year-
old race to international horses in 1993. Four of those have
left as winners in the past decade, with last year’s victor
Dunaden one of six overseas runners in the top seven places.  “Certainly the horses have been a catalyst in terms of the
interest in the race overseas,” Dale Monteith, the VRC’s chief
executive officer, said in an interview. “Now it’s recognized
as an international event. The brand of the Melbourne Cup is
much stronger now. The awareness level of it certainly.”  French stayer Dunaden returns to try to secure back-to-back
wins. The seven-year-old tuned up by winning the Caulfield Cup
on Oct. 20, a triumph that cost him a 1-kilogram (2.2 pounds)
weight penalty for tomorrow’s race. Were he to win it with 59
kilograms, it would be the biggest weight carried to victory in
37 years.  Unique Race  For Dunaden’s owner, Sheikh Fahad bin Abdullah  Al Thani ,
the cost and risk of sending a horse to Australia, which can
involve a 30-hour trip, are worth it.  “It’s a long way, but once you’ve tried it, it’s like a
bug,” the Qatari royal said in an Oct. 10 interview in
Newmarket,  England . “You always have to go back there again. A
handicap group one over two miles, there is no other race in the
world with those specifications.”  While the 3,200-meter (2-mile) race, for which Melbournians
get a public holiday, has been a constant highlight on the local
sporting calendar, its impact historically was limited to
Australia and neighboring  New Zealand .  That changed 19 years ago, when Irish trainer Dermot Weld
brought Vintage Crop to  Melbourne  and won the Cup. Weld repeated
the feat in 2002 with Media Puzzle, and Japanese and French-
trained horses have won in 2006, 2010 and last year.  ‘Floodgates Open’  “Once somebody shows it can be done, the floodgates
open,” said Alastair Donald, managing director of the
Newmarket-based International Racing Bureau Ltd. “It also has a
reputation as being a fantastic event, therefore it sparked the
interest of Europeans.”  During the 1970s, fewer than half a dozen thoroughbreds
each year would cross continental boundaries. Now, more than 400
horses undertake such trips, according to the  bureau , which
helps racing organizations in recruiting international runners.  The A$6 million prize money, accentuated by a local
currency that almost doubled in the past decade against its U.S.
equivalent, has also helped put the Melbourne Cup on the map.
The A$3.6 million first prize is the most in Australian sports,
while 10th place pays A$125,000, which can help mitigate travel
budgets exceeding A$150,000.  Only the $10 million Dubai  World Cup  and $6.4 million Japan
Cup have bigger prize purses.  Prize Money  “It’s very much on the radar of British, French and Irish
trainers now,” said John Maxse, Sheikh Fahad’s spokesman.
“People talk about the Melbourne Cup from the summer onwards.
The higher prize money is a draw.”  Sponsors reflect the global appeal. Emirates Airlines has
held naming rights to the race since 2004 and is also the VRC’s
principle partner. Champagne maker G.H. Mumm,  Swatch Group AG (UHR) ’s
Longines and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus brands are among the 10
official partners of the four-day Melbourne Cup Carnival.  The 18-carat gold trophy visited  Hong Kong  in September as
the VRC and Hong Kong Jockey Club announced an alliance that
offers their members reciprocal privileges. Tomorrow’s race will
be simulcast in Hong Kong, where locals wagered HK$20.6 million
($2.7 million) on it last year, according to the jockey club.  Similar arrangements are also in place in  Canada , New
Zealand,  Singapore ,  South Africa  and the U.S., the VRC said.  Having familiar names in the field is pulling more punters
in the U.K., even though high street betting shops are closed at
race time.  William Hill Plc (WMH)  and  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD) , who have more
than 4,100 outlets between them, said betting turnover on the
race will be up this year.  Interest Spikes  “We expect the Melbourne Cup this year to be record-
breaking,” said Ladbrokes spokesman  David Williams . “If home-
based punters recognize the horses, they’ll have a bet. This
hasn’t always been the case regarding the Melbourne Cup, but the
success of big European bases recently has helped spike
interest.”  Ladbrokes rates 2010 winner Americain as the 4-1 favorite
ahead of Dunaden and Mount Athos, which is trained by U.K.-based
 Luca Cumani . William Hill has Americain and Mount Athos as the
11-2 joint-favorites with Maluckyday the best-rated local chance
at 12-1.  Tabcorp, Australia’s largest racecourse betting company,
rates Americain the 5-1 favorite to pull off another successful
overseas raid, a trend that has encouraged locals to look north
of the equator for potential winners.  “When it’s opened up to international competition, you get
in the newspapers, you get on television and more interest,”
the VRC’s Monteith said. “That’s what actually happened with us
with the overseas horses in the first instance. Now you see
Australian owners going overseas and purchasing internationally
bred and raced horses specifically for the Melbourne Cup.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  