-- Election Winner Must Win Over Wall Street
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-11-04T23:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/election-winner-must-win-over-wall-street.html
Regardless of whether  Mitt Romney  or
 Barack Obama  wins the presidential election Tuesday night, one
of the first orders of business will be to repair the deep rift
between  Washington  and Wall Street.  Plenty of Americans may feel that the antagonism between
the two is useful -- and lord knows there have been times in
recent history when the relationship between the power centers
in Washington and  New York City  has been unbearably cozy. Yet
the truth is that America functions best when Wall Street and
Washington have a symbiotic -- rather than adversarial --
relationship.  So, whichever man wins, he should get to work immediately
on improving the vibes between Washington and Wall Street.
Here’s how to do it, in three simple steps:  First, don’t pretend the problem doesn’t exist. Yes, it is
true that during the past four years Wall Street has benefited
enormously under President Barack Obama -- from the trillions of
dollars used to bail out failed firms to the doubling of the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  since its 2009 nadir to the failure
to put in place meaningful regulatory reform to the  Federal
Reserve ’s decision to keep  interest rates  low. Yet Wall Street
doesn’t see it that way, and the antipathy is palpable.  Fat Cats  So while Obama may think it was only his one little
televised comment about  “fat-cat bankers”  drawing huge bonuses
during the fiscal meltdown, the anger persists.  And, while the shift to Romney has been stark -- Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and its employees were Obama’s biggest
supporter four years ago; those riches have mostly gone to the
challenger this time -- it doesn’t mean either side will forget
the last four years should he win. The  Dodd-Frank reform act 
remains the law of the land, banks remain under the (often
heavy-lidded) eye of the watchdog agencies, and uber-capitalist
Romney, one hopes, understands that markets won’t function
unless the people have faith in them being fair.  To put things on a new footing, I suggest a weekend retreat
in early December to Camp David (if Obama wins), or to  Bretton
Woods ,  New Hampshire  (if Romney wins), involving both sides’
financial and policy gurus. I know it would be a painful and
awkward gathering, especially if Obama is re-elected. Even a
President Romney would have to figure out how to salve feelings
bruised by the endless battles over how the new regulation of
 Wall Street  will work.  What would they discuss at such a retreat? The other two
items on my agenda.  One of which is that, while federal agencies need to
quickly wrap up writing the rules called for under Dodd-Frank,
the government should actually let Wall Street banks take more
risk with their capital than Dodd-Frank law implies they should.
In return, however, Washington should finally hold Wall Street
fully accountable for its actions.  There are two ways to do that. One is to make the top 400
or so bankers, traders and executives at each Wall Street firm
put their entire net worth at risk every day: their apartments,
townhouses, weekend estates, art collections, investments and so
on. Instead of letting the “fat cats” hide behind the corporate
veil if something goes wrong, shareholders and creditors should
be able to go after their personal assets when the ship sinks.  The government should allow the ships to sink, eliminating
in word and deed the possibility of “too big to fail.” Let every
firm know that if it that gets into financial trouble it will be
allowed to fail, even if it is deemed “systemically important.”  The combination of eliminating “too big to fail” and
forcing Wall Street’s brass to have their full net worth on the
line every day will make Wall Street a much safer place than it
has been in the past 40-plus years, since one Wall Street firm
after another decided to transform from a small, private
partnership into a big, publicly traded corporate behemoth.  Criminal Prosecutions  The third step for the new president is to immediately
order federal agencies to criminally prosecute those Wall Street
bankers, traders and executives whose malfeasance caused the
financial crisis. I know the flame has gone out on this front --
the Feds even failed to convict the two Bear Stearns & Co.
hedge-fund honchos who were the canaries on the financial crisis
coal mine, and even that got tossed on appeal -- but confidence
in the  capital markets  won’t be fully restored until the people
who made a fortune bringing down the economy are held
responsible.  It may be counterintuitive to think that the rift between
Wall Street and Washington can be repaired by reopening this
wound -- but I believe those running Wall Street firms, now and
in the future, will appreciate the fact that there will be legal
accountability for bad behavior. After the savings-and-loan
crisis 25 years ago, some 3,500 bankers, traders and executives
were criminally prosecuted and put in jail.  Like it or not, Wall Street is the left ventricle of global
capitalism, and until the damage in it is repaired, the
patient’s heart won’t pump at full strength. Rather, the economy
will remain extremely vulnerable to cardiac arrest.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  improving federal economic
disaster aid  and on  why inequality wasn’t a big campaign issue ;
 Albert R. Hunt  on  how Bill Clinton is the big winner  of this
election;  Pankaj Mishra  on  Indonesia’s new economic model  for
 Asia ; Cass R. Sunstein on  why regulatory reform will continue ;
 Steven Greenhut  on  California’s post-election future ; Carl Pope
on  what’s behind Mitt Romney’s anti-environmentalism .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com . 