-- Emir Turns Qatari Riches Into Power Behind Middle East
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-11-05T12:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/emir-turns-qatari-riches-into-power-behind-middle-east.html
When the Qatari emir stepped out of a
helicopter and crossed into Gaza last month, the placards
bearing his face and the flags draped from buildings marked more
than just gratitude for $400 million of investment.  Sheikh Hamad  Bin Khalifa Al Thani’s visit to the coastal
enclave, the first by a head of state since Hamas’s violent
takeover in 2007, was the culmination of a 20-year journey
turning Qatar into the world’s richest country and a regional
leader from a fragile, debt-ridden Persian Gulf emirate.  “It adds to his prestige as the first Arab leader to go
there,” Allen Keiswetter, a scholar at the Washington-based
 Middle East Institute  and retired foreign service officer, said
in a telephone interview. “Qataris have an ambitious
leadership, they have lots of money and they are quite capable
of chewing gum and walking at the same time.”  Qatar, a country built on natural gas fields, is trying to
translate energy wealth and breakneck economic growth into
political influence. It’s playing an Arab leadership role
traditionally held by  Saudi Arabia  and Egypt, whose population
is more than 45 times bigger than Qatar’s, after revolutions
spread across the  Middle East .  Sheikh Hamad, 60 this year, has backed Syrian rebels
against the four-decade Assad leadership and this week hosts
meetings aimed at unifying and strengthening the opposition. He
sent aircraft to enforce a no fly zone over Libya last year and
is providing $2 billion to Egypt’s new Muslim Brotherhood
president plus investing in an  oil refinery  and real estate
projects in the North African country.  ‘Bright Days’  “When Arab nations watched the people’s steadfastness in
Gaza, they learned how to revolt,” the Qatari emir said in a
speech in Gaza during his Oct. 23 visit. “This was one of the
major reasons for the Arab Spring revolutions that will bring
better bright days.”  His involvement in the region’s politics is rankling some
countries in the region.  Iran , which shares a gas basin with Qatar, opposes support
of Sunni Muslim rebels in  Syria  against President Bashar al- Assad, backed by the pro-Iranian Shiites. Israel criticized the
trip to Gaza because Qatar appeared to side with Hamas, labeled
a terrorist group by the U.S. and the European Union.  “There are many ways to contribute to Palestinian welfare
and peace between Israel and the Palestinians, and siding with
Hamas is diametrically opposed to each and every one of them,”
Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said in a
telephone interview on Oct. 31.  Cash Clout  At home in the Qatari capital Doha, a sleepy fishing port
in the 19th century and now a city of skyscrapers in the desert
to rival Dubai, the emir rules over a population that has more
than tripled to  1.8 million  since he took power in 1995. Locals
are also 27 percent richer than Luxembourgers, based on
purchasing power parity, International Monetary Fund data show.  The spending promises in Egypt and to pave roads, build
houses and a hospital in the  Gaza Strip  reflect Qatar’s
spreading financial tentacles.  The country’s sovereign wealth fund, the Qatar Investment
Authority, owns stakes in  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Barclays Plc and Credit
Suisse Group AG. With $30 billion to invest this year, the fund
will decide the fate of  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  attempt to
buy  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  in what may be the biggest takeover of the year.  Qatari investors funded the development of the Shard,
London’s tallest building, and the takeover of Paris St. Germain
soccer club in the French capital.  “Qatar has enormous financial resources right now which
they are happy to deploy in support of causes they believe in,”
said  Richard Murphy , a former U.S. ambassador to both Syria and
Saudi Arabia and also a scholar at the Middle East Institute.  Liquefied Gas  The Qatari government doesn’t employ official spokesmen and
nobody at the emir’s palace in Doha could be reached for comment
for this story when called by telephone. His 32-year-old son,
Tamim Bin Hamad Al Thani, who has become more visible in
handling day-to-day affairs, also couldn’t be reached.  In 1996, a year after Sheikh Hamad overthrew his father in
a bloodless coup, Qatar exported $3 billion of oil a year and
had the biggest government deficit in the Middle East as a
percent of gross domestic product, according to the IMF.  Fast forward to today, and  its economy  is more than seven
times bigger than in 1995 as the emir oversaw a government that
tripled oil production as crude prices jumped seven-fold. He
also began liquefying gas pumped from the country’s North Field,
the world’s largest gas reservoir, where flames from flare
towers light up the night sky and tankers dock to upload fuel
for delivery to Japan,  South Korea , the U.K. and the U.S.  ‘Big Stamp’  Qatar is now the biggest producer of liquefied natural gas,
accounting for about 31 percent of the world’s supply, according
to  the International Group of Liquefied Natural Gas Importers .  “Qatar has the potential to have a very big stamp across
the region, from the Turkish border with Syria all the way
across to the Libyan border with Egypt,” said Michael Stephens,
a researcher in Doha at the  Royal United Services Institute .  Sheikh Hamad, who is also defense minister, graduated from
the Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst in England in 1971, the
year Qatar won independence from the British. He started the
Arabic television network  Al Jazeera  a year after taking power
and invited U.S. universities to set up campuses in the country.  A  diver  and sports fan, Sheikh Hamad flew to Zurich two
years ago when  soccer governing body FIFA  announced his country
was awarded the 2022  World Cup . He has twice sought to host the
Olympics. Qatar held the World Indoor Athletic championships in
2010 and will host the World Road cycling championships.  Islamist Future  The government plans to spend $130 billion ahead of the
World Cup, including a $35 billion metro and rail system, a new
port, multi-lane highways and nine new stadiums that will be air
conditioned using solar energy.  When it comes to politics, Sheikh Hamad’s step into
mediation isn’t new. His government brokered deals in Lebanon
and Sudan’s Darfur region. He has tried to intervene in Yemen
and urged dialog with Iran over its nuclear program, hosting a
summit with President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in 2010.  The emir believes “Islamists are the way of the future in
the Middle East,”  Gregory Gause , professor of political science
at the University of  Vermont  and a Persian Gulf specialist, said
in an interview. He “has done quite a bit to cultivate
relationships with Islamist groups” including mediations
involving Hamas and Lebanon’s Hezbollah, he said.  Supporting Islamists is based on the recognition that
religion is becoming more important in the region, Stephens, the
researcher at the Royal United Services Institute, said.  “If the region was moving more secular, Qatar would be
more secular,” he said. “But the region is moving more
religious, so it’s more religious.”  ‘Rite of Passage’  While providing financial aid and diplomatic support for
the Hamas government since the Islamist group ousted Fatah in
2007, Qatar’s closer involvement in Gaza came after the
overthrow of former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  last year.  Qatar helped broker an agreement between Hamas and Fatah
that was signed in its capital, Doha, in February. The agreement
envisaged a unity government and new Palestinian elections.  The country has provided a home for Khalid Mashaal, head of
the Hamas politburo, after he pulled out of Syria earlier this
year amid escalating violence, according to Al-Hayat newspaper.  “It’s always very good PR for a leader aspiring for
regional ambition to deal with the Palestine question,”
Stephens said. “Dealing with the Palestinian question is a rite
of passage. If you are not talking about the Palestinian
question, you are not really part of the program.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  