-- Euro Touches Month Low on Concern Greece Won’t Secure Aid
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-11-05T22:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/euro-touches-month-low-on-concern-greece-won-t-secure-aid.html
The euro fell to the lowest in almost
eight weeks against the dollar amid speculation  Greece  will
struggle to win bailout funds, risking the nation’s future in
the European monetary bloc.  The shared currency declined versus all but the Swiss franc
among its 16 major counterparts after Greek Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras pledged yesterday that proposed wage and pension
cuts will be the last as he struggled to win political support
for measure to assure the country’s lifeline. The Dollar Index
rose for a third day before tomorrow’s U.S. presidential
election. The pound fell against the dollar after U.K. services
growth slowed. Sweden’s krona strengthened versus the euro.  “What’s going on in Greece and somewhat Spain has been the
motive factor, and that’s driving the euro down,”  Joseph Trevisani , chief market strategist at WorldWideMarkets Ltd. in
Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey, said in a telephone interview.
“Everybody thinks the Greeks are going to get their money.
Everyone thinks the Spanish will come around and borrow money
from the Europeans. If those conclusions changed, the euro would
be much lower.”  The euro weakened 0.3 percent to $1.2796 at 5 p.m. New York
time after dropping to $1.2767, the lowest level since Sept. 11.
The common currency fell 0.5 percent to 102.74 yen after sliding
0.5 percent on Nov. 2. The yen appreciated 0.2 percent to 80.29
per dollar after touching 80.68 on Nov. 2, the weakest since
April 27.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six major trading
partners, gained 0.2 percent to 80.73. The gauge rose above its
200-day moving average, at 80.67, for the first time since Sept.
7.  The gauge may climb to its highest level in almost 10 weeks
after breaking through a key resistance level, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co., citing technical indicators. The benchmark
may increase to its highest level since Aug. 28 after rising
through resistance from 80.20 to 80.32, Niall O’Connor, a New
York-based technical analyst at JPMorgan, wrote today in a note
to clients.  Greek society won’t tolerate any more austerity measures,
Samaras told lawmakers of his New Democracy Party in  Athens , as
coalition leaders debate the terms of the latest package. The
first parliamentary vote on measures needed to obtain additional
aid is scheduled to take place as early as Nov. 7.  Spain said it is working on a review of income and spending
in its welfare system as it heads toward a deficit amid a
deepening economic slump and the highest jobless rate in the
European Union. The nation is relying on 100 billion euros ($128
billion) in European aid for its banks and potentially seeking
more to shore up its public finances.  ‘Euro Selling’  “The main direction is still one of euro being lower and
continued problems in  Europe ,” George Dowd, head of Chicago
foreign exchange for Newedge USA LLC, an institutional brokerage
firm, said in a phone interview. “Nobody is putting on any big
long-term positions ahead of the U.S. elections. If we get an
election result that’s definitive on Tuesday, you may have some
pent-up euro selling come into the market.”  Dowd said he expects the euro to fall to $1.23 by the end
of the year.  The euro has weakened 3.1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The yen has dropped 6.2 percent,
the worst performer, and the dollar declined 1.7 percent.  Presidential Election  The U.S. currency rose against 10 of its 16 major peers on
speculation the winner of this week’s presidential election will
press ahead with plans to curtail the nation’s deficit.  Employment and the economy are central themes before
tomorrow’s vote, with President  Barack Obama  and Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney  each trying to convince voters he can best
energize the economic expansion.  The U.S. presidential contest, marked by two dozen lawsuits
in the past six months over voter rules including photo ID
requirements and limited poll hours, may see a new wave of
litigation starting tomorrow over who gets to vote and which
ballots will be counted. The biggest battles, however, may come
after Election Day, and could lead to a replay of 2000, when
courts determine the next U.S. president.  “The last time we got close to the debt ceiling and we had
the credit-ratings downgrade, around that period we saw the
markets struggle and the dollar do very well,”  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at Wells Fargo & Co. in
New York, said in an interview on Bloomberg Televison’s “Lunch
Money” with Sara Eisen. “The election outcome is unclear at
this point but, what’s pretty sure is, we’re going to get some
difficult budget negotiations afterward.”  Pound Falls  The U.S. was stripped of its AAA credit rating on Aug. 5,
2011, by Standard & Poor’s, which cited political wrangling as
among the factors for its decision. Europe’s common currency may
decline in the short term to $1.25 and to $1.20 in about a year,
Bennenbroek said.  The pound declined for a second day versus the dollar after
an industry report showed U.K. services growth slowed more in
October than economists forecast.  Sterling fell before the Bank of England holds a two-day
meeting this week to decide whether to increase monetary
stimulus through so-called quantitative easing.  “I’d be wary of further weakness,” said Michael Derks,
chief strategist at FXPro Group Ltd. in  London . “The hurdle for
more QE is reasonably high.”  Krona, Lira  The U.K. currency dropped 0.3 percent to $1.5979 after
falling to $1.5958, the lowest since Oct. 24. The pound was
little changed at 80.08 pence per euro.  The krona strengthened against the euro after service
production in the Scandinavian nation rose to 50.3 in October
from a revised 47.2 the previous month. A reading above 50
signals an expansion.  The krona rose 0.5 percent to 8.5623 per euro. Sweden’s
currency gained 0.2 percent to 6.6913 per dollar.  The Turkish lira strengthened after the nation received its
first investment-grade ranking since 1994. Fitch Ratings raised
the country by one level to BBB-, citing an easing in economic
risk and lower government debt.  The lira climbed 0.6 percent to 1.7815 per dollar, and
gained 0.9 percent to 2.2799 against the euro. It has risen for
10 days versus the euro, the longest streak since the single
currency was introduced in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  