-- Europe, Asia Call for Open Markets to Boost Trade, Growth
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-11-05T13:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/european-debt-crisis-seen-hindering-closer-trade-ties-with-asia.html
European and Asian leaders called for
unfettered commerce and warned against protectionism as the debt
crisis threatens to undermine trade ties between the world’s
fastest and slowest-growing regions.  “We must open our markets,” French President  Francois Hollande  said today in a speech in Vientiane,  Laos , where he is
attending the Asia-Europe Meeting along with leaders from about
50 countries. “The biggest threat is protectionism.”  Europe’s economic woes may exacerbate protectionist
tendencies that make it harder to expand trade with its biggest
commerce partner at a time when the U.S. and  Australia  are
forging new agreements, according to Fredrik Erixon, head of the
European Centre for International Political Economy in Brussels.
Apart from a trade deal with  South Korea , the 27-member European
Union has seen talks lag with  China ,  Japan , India and Southeast
Asian countries since 2007.  “Europe needs to improve its policy toward the entire
Asian region in order to take up a greater part of  Asia ’s
economic expansion, but we’re not really seeing it,” Erixon
said by phone. “The train is about to leave the station and
Europe certainly isn’t on it.”  Europe’s leaders face pressure to boost ties with Asia
after U.S. President  Barack Obama  declared a pivot to the region
and Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  unveiled a strategy
last week to make her country “a winner in the Asian century.”
At stake is safeguarding  links  that European economies are
increasingly counting on, with the 19 Asian nations
participating in a summit starting in Laos today accounting for
38 percent of the EU’s total trade last year, up from 30 percent
a decade ago.  Euro-Area Slowdown  The  International Monetary Fund   expects  the euro area’s
economy to contract 0.4 percent this year, while China is
forecast to grow 7.8 percent and the U.S. may expand 2.2
percent. Trade growth between the EU and Asian countries
attending this week’s meetings slowed to 6 percent through the
first six months of 2012 from a pace of 8 percent last year,
according to the bloc’s  data .  Asia’s exports to the EU will drop “quite significantly”
in the near term as countries deleverage, Changyong Rhee, the
 Asian Development Bank ’s chief economist, said by phone. Closer
policy coordination is needed between leaders from the two
regions to ensure a global recovery, he said.  “The U.S., Canada and Australia are more aggressive in
Asia than Europe,” Rhee said. “The EU may be slow because you
have to harmonize all countries together to have a free trade
agreement, but once you have one FTA between the EU and another
country it’s actually 27 FTAs.”  Trade Talks Stall  The EU  suspended  trade talks in 2009 with the 10-member
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations , a bloc with about 600
million people, and is now negotiating separate agreements with
individual countries such as Singapore, Malaysia and Vietnam.
Similar talks with India that kicked off in 2007 are stalled.  During a visit to Brussels two months ago, Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  urged the EU to “exercise restraint in resorting to
trade-remedy measures.” The EU was the biggest market for
Chinese exports last year, according to Chinese data, while
China is the bloc’s No. 2 commercial partner, after the U.S.  “Free, open, and fair international trade is an important
driving force for world economic growth,” Wen said in a
statement released today in Vientiane, where he is also
attending the summit.  ‘Made in France’  Earlier in September, the EU started a probe into whether
Chinese makers of solar panels sell them below cost, the largest
European trade dispute of its kind covering 21 billion euros
($27 billion) of imports. China faces more EU anti-dumping
duties than any other country, covering about 1 percent of its
exports to the bloc.  China’s official news agency Xinhua published an editorial
two weeks ago that criticized protectionist rhetoric in Europe.
It singled out French Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg , who
has urged consumers to spurn cheaper imports and buy goods
“Made in France.”  Wen agreed that commerce with France must be rebalanced to
narrow the European nation’s trade deficit, Hollande told
reporters after the two leaders met. He added that China must
continue re-evaluating its currency.  “Currencies must represent more faithfully the state of
our economies,” Hollande said. “States whose trade are in
surplus must necessarily accept a re-evalutation of their
currencies. There must be some correction to re-balance
exchanges and if we want to support growth.”  Asia Help  More than 30 heads of government and state, including
Gillard, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , Russian Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  and Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko
Noda  are attending the summit in Laos. Germany, Spain and the
U.K. sent foreign ministers, while Greece is represented by its
ambassador in Vientiane.  “Asia is not able to settle Europe’s issues, but Asia can
do its part to help Europe,” Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien
Loong said in a speech. Measures include boosting consumption,
broadening safety nets, liberalizing the financial system and by
promoting trade, he said.  Negotiations for free trade agreements between the EU and
counties including Singapore, Malaysia, and Vietnam can be
“building blocks” towards an eventual deal between the EU and
the Asean, Lee said.  ‘Driving Force’  Norway’s sovereign wealth fund has invested $80 billion in
Asian equities and bonds, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg told
leaders at the summit today.  “Our ships are built in this region and more and more
business is in Asia,” he said. “Today this region is a driving
force in the global economy.”  Japan is ready to start free-trade negotiations with the EU
if it can get a mandate from member states, a Japanese official
told reporters last week on condition of anonymity because he
was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter. Noda will
meet with EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European Commission
President  Jose Manuel Barroso  in Laos.  Noda also wants to improve ties with China and South Korea
after territorial spats increased tensions in recent months,
Kyodo reported, citing comments he gave before leaving Tokyo. No
formal talks are scheduled between the leaders, it said.  Gillard last week called for Australia to do more to take
advantage of Asia’s economic boom. She aims to boost trade with
the region to at least a third of gross domestic product by
2025, compared with a quarter today.  ‘Staggering’ Rise  “The scale and pace of Asia’s rise is staggering,”
Gillard said in a  report . “There are significant opportunities
and challenges for all Australians.”  Obama’s top trade priority has been the  Trans-Pacific
Partnership , an agreement involving nine Asia-Pacific countries
that will undergo its 15th negotiation round next month. Canada
and Mexico are preparing to join, while Japan may also sign up.  The slowdown in developed economies has prompted China in
recent years to increase trade ties with Asia, the Middle East
and Africa, Lim Cheng Teck, who heads China operations for
London-based Standard Chartered Plc, said in Bangkok last week.
The bank expects use of the  yuan  in international trade
settlement to triple within three years to $1.03 trillion, he
said.  “For Europe we believe it’s kind of a structural challenge
that will not be so quickly solved,” Lim said. “China is kind
of saying ‘OK, let’s turn to other markets.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  