-- Hey, Kids: Get Over Your Obama Hangover
-- B y   Z a r a   K e s s l e r
-- 2012-11-04T23:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/hey-kids-get-over-your-obama-hangover.html
Reid Cherlin, a  former Barack Obama staffer , has an excellent new  GQ piece 
about the Obama campaign's effort to win "base voters." The most crucial segment
of the base vote for Obama, Cherlin explains, is young people. But young people aren't necessarily cooperating. Cherlin imagines a college
kid named Zach, "snoozing in an upper bunk at State U": "Young Zach likes Obama.
So do his buddies. They appreciate that they can stay on their parents' health
care plans until they're 26 if they need to. They like that the wars are ending.
They're indifferent to Romney, at best." "The only question is," Cherlin concludes his scenario, "are Zach and his
buddies even going to bother to vote?" Obama's problem with young voters this year is not that we don’t like him.
(Spoiler alert: At 22, I am firmly in the " young Obama voter " demographic.) It's
whether we'll vote for him. Polling data  from the Pew Research Center shows that among young likely
voters, Obama leads  Mitt Romney  56 percent to 35 percent (four years ago, Obama
won the youth vote over Senator John McCain 66-32). Another survey by Harvard
University's Institute of Politics found that Obama has a 22 percentage point
 lead  over Romney among all individuals (not merely likely voters) ages 18 to 29.
But -- and here's the catch -- it also  showed  that young Romney voters were 10
percentage points (65 percent to 55 percent) more likely to say they would
"definitely" vote. My problem with young voters this year is not our apathy. We're not always so
on top of things, like registering to vote or requesting absentee ballots or
getting to the polls on Tuesday morning before heading to work or school.
Besides, the apathy is by all accounts bipartisan: Pew Center  research  says the
drop in engagement in voters under 40 is almost the same among Democrats and
Republicans, and 43 percent of young likely non-voters in the Harvard survey
agreed that "it doesn't matter who's elected,  Washington  is broken." This hardly qualifies as insight, I realize. It's not just young voters (or
young candidates) who are fed up with Washington. Still, it doesn’t bother me as
much as another rationale Cherlin identifies in his piece. He talks to a frat
boy at the University of  Colorado  who says, while drinking beer, that he
suspects young people voted in 2008 largely because they wanted to help elect
the first black president. "Now, it's almost like Obama's old news," he
says. Individuals in focus groups done as part of the Harvard survey made similar
points. "I voted in 2008 for the same reason that Ashley did, because he was
black," said one young person in  Detroit  who voted in 2008 but wasn't likely to
do so in 2012. Said another: "It was really exciting and it was like, this is a
change, this is something different. This is history being made." I'm constantly told that I'm part of a spoiled generation; we had cell phones
before we had braces and won trophies for just finishing. Many of us were
spoiled because the first election in which we voted was truly historic. We
drank up the exhilaration of hope and change and history. That was four years ago. This year, we're hungover and don't really feel like
getting out of bed. Voting in 2012 is not going to be as "historically"
rewarding as it was in 2008. Could the 2012 candidates have done more to
motivate us and make us think otherwise? Maybe. Or maybe not: I long ago stopped
paying attention to the e-mails and tweets and Facebook posts from the
campaigns. If anything, our Obama hangovers are the result of thinking too much about
history and not enough about politics. We patted ourselves on the backs for
electing a president who looked different from any that came before him. But we
forgot to realize that the political system -- and economy -- would look the
same on Jan. 21, 2009 as it did on Jan. 20, 2009. We elected a celebrity. We got
the 44th president. History does not work in neat four-year cycles. But U.S. politics does. And
on Tuesday, it's time to vote. (Zara Kessler is an assistant editor and producer for Bloomberg View.  Follow 
her on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .