-- Family Less Likely to Give CPR Than Strangers in Study
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-11-04T19:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/family-less-likely-to-give-cpr-than-strangers-in-study.html
People with cardiac arrest are more
likely to get cardiopulmonary resuscitation from strangers than
members of their own family, especially wives, according to a
study in Japan.  Friends and colleagues were twice as probable and
bystanders were 1.5 times more likely to perform  CPR , a
procedure used on a person whose heart has stopped or is no
longer breathing, the research showed. The study was presented
at the  American Heart Association annual meeting  held in  Los
Angeles  today.  Patients found by family members had the lowest survival
rate, the study said. Wives were least likely to administer the
chest compressions and rescue breathing involved in CPR,
researchers said. The findings suggest a combination of
cultural, emotional and demographic issues may be at play.  “If you go into cardiac arrest in front of your family,
you may not survive,” Hideo Inaba, professor of emergency
medicine at  Kanazawa University  who led the study, said in an
interview. “Humans want to be optimistic when it comes to about
family members and hesitate to take actions. Whereas colleagues,
friends and strangers respond much quicker.”  In Japan where many of the elderly people live with a
spouse only, wives haven’t had enough training to give CPR to
husbands, Inaba said. Japanese women are less likely to give CPR
to men compared with men because they are taught to be humble
and seek decisions for others such as bosses, husbands and in-
laws in the society, he said.  Family members were the most likely to receive telephone
instruction from dispatchers, though the instruction most
frequently failed, the study said.  Study Data  The study analyzed information of 139,265 Japanese cases of
cardiac arrest outside of hospitals and any involvement of
physicians. The data was extracted from  Japan ’s nationwide
database of 547,218 cases between January 2005 and December
2009.  About 194,900 people died from  heart diseases , or 16
percent of all deaths, last year in Japan, the second-biggest
cause of deaths in the country after cancer, according to
Japan’s health ministry data. In the U.S., an estimated 325,000
deaths are caused by sudden cardiac arrest every year, a leading
cause of mortality,  according to  Heart Rhythm Foundation in
Washington D.C., an affiliate of Heart Rhythm Society.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  