-- G-20 Tells U.S. to Avoid Fiscal Cliff as Focus Widens
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-11-05T14:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/fiscal-fears-flip-to-u-s-from-europe-as-g-20-sees-modest-growth.html
Global finance chiefs pressed the
U.S. to avoid harming the fragile world economy with excessive
austerity, widening their focus on fiscal challenges beyond
concerns over Europe’s debt woes.  On the eve of the  U.S. presidential election , Group of 20
finance ministers and central bankers meeting in Mexico City
pushed for swift action to prevent the $607 billion in tax
increases and spending cuts that will hit in January unless
lawmakers act.  As President  Barack Obama  and Republican  Mitt Romney  tussle
for the White House, the fear of foreign officials is that
failure to limit the damage of the so-called fiscal cliff would
tip the world’s largest economy into recession and drag their
countries down with it. Europe, the subject of the G-20’s ire
for the past three years, remained under pressure amid calls to
take promised crisis-fighting steps.  “I expect each country to voice its hopes for firm efforts
toward a resolution of the fiscal cliff problem,”  Bank of Japan (8301) 
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa told reporters late yesterday. “It’s
important for each country to work toward stabilizing its own
economy.”  A draft of the statement to be issued by the G-20 today
identifies the potential for a sharp fiscal pullback in the U.S.
and  Japan  as a danger to an already modest expansion, said an
official from one of the countries who declined to be identified
because the text hasn’t been finalized.  Crisis Respite  While Europe is enjoying some respite from its debt crisis
after the  European Central Bank  pledged to buy bonds, the
official said the draft cautions against delaying efforts to
deliver a permanent solution.  The fiscal frailties threaten to offset glimpses of
economic improvement that followed a mid-year worldwide slump.
Data last week showed American employers  hiring  more workers
than forecast in October and Chinese manufacturing expanding for
the first time in three months.  “There is nothing more important to the global economy
than to lift growth in the world’s major advanced economies,”
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said in a statement today.  The G-20 represents the world’s leading industrial and
emerging economies. Underscoring the limits of policy
coordination when national action is required, several key
officials, including U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and ECB President  Mario Draghi , are skipping the meeting. Other
topics being discussed include banking regulation and reform of
the  International Monetary Fund .  Hogging Spotlight  A shift from previous G-20 talks is that Europe’s travails
are no longer hogging the spotlight as attention is split with
the U.S. The IMF estimates the fiscal tightening on track there
is equivalent to 4 percent of gross domestic product, the most
since the 1940s and about double the U.S.’s current growth-rate.  “In the near-term, clearly the U.S. situation is the
higher risk” compared with Europe, Canadian Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  told reporters.  Assuming the cuts pass through entirely to the economy, a 4
percent consolidation would be enough to shrink the  U.S. economy 
0.5 percent next year as well as generate a 2.2 percent
contraction in the euro area and limit Chinese expansion to 4.4
percent, according to a model created by Dario Perkins, a former
U.K. Treasury official now at Lombard Street Research in  London .  ‘Austerity Light’  The G-20 members are confident a bipartisan deal can be
struck, an official from a G-20 nation said. Even if a worst-
case scenario is avoided and the U.S. cuts run a third of the
total, the resulting “austerity light” will still be enough to
slow the U.S. economy, said Rich Clarida, global strategic
adviser at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co.  Morgan Stanley analysts see a one-in-three chance of a
political spat bad enough to cause a U.S. recession. Democrats
led by Obama want to allow scheduled tax increases on the
wealthy, while Romney opposes any increase as Republicans focus
on reducing spending.  Highlighting the growing unease toward the U.S., 42 percent
of investors polled last month by Bank of America Merrill Lynch
identified the fiscal cliff as the main threat to their
strategies, up from 26 percent in August. By contrast, 27
percent branded European debt their main concern, down from 65
percent in June.  Policy Uncertainty  The upside is that any financial market fallout could
pressure both parties into a bargain, according to Deutsche Bank
AG economists led by  Peter Hooper  in  New York . After policy
uncertainty depressed U.S. growth by a percentage point or more
in recent years, a successful resolution could boost expansion
by as much as two points, they said in an Oct. 31 report.  Still, Europe isn’t off the hook, as evidenced by a U.S.
Treasury official telling reporters on Nov. 2 that it remains
the “greatest headwind” to international recovery. While the
ECB has calmed markets, Greece’s government will this week try
to piece together political support for further austerity needed
to keep aid flowing. Meantime,  Spain  is holding out on tapping a
bailout, and there are differences over the speed of a
continent-wide banking union.  “We may have to brace ourselves for occasional new waves
of crisis,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at
Berenberg Bank in London.  Japan, which has a debt of 237 percent of GDP, is also
facing fresh budgetary challenges. Its Ministry of Finance is
warning that a refusal by lawmakers to authorize 38.3 trillion
yen ($476 billion) in borrowing risks leaving the government
unable to hold debt auctions as planned.  Budget Pledges  Whether the route to lasting economic recovery lies through
austerity or measured stimulus remains an evolving debate within
the G-20. Just two years ago, the group’s advanced nations, with
the exception of Japan, vowed to cut their budget deficits in
half by 2013 and stabilize or reduce government debt as a share
of GDP by 2016. IMF forecasts show only Germany,  South Korea ,
 Canada  and  Australia  largely on course to meet both goals.  Flaherty said while the G-20’s credibility is at stake if
it doesn’t reaffirm its deficit commitments, there may be some
“modification” given they may no longer work for the
Americans. The IMF forecasts a U.S. budget gap of 7.3 percent of
GDP next year versus 11.2 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Mexico City at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Mexico City at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  