-- Guan, 14, Becomes Youngest Qualifier for Masters Tournament Golf
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-11-04T17:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/guan-14-becomes-youngest-qualifier-for-masters-tournament-golf.html
Tianlang Guan became the youngest
player to qualify for golf’s  Masters Tournament  by winning the
 Asia-Pacific Amateur Championship  at age 14.  Guan, from  China , finished the four-round tournament at the
 Amata Spring Country Club  in Chonburi,  Thailand , yesterday with
a score of 15-under-par 273.  “I’m really happy to become the youngest player at the
Masters and looking forward to going there,” Guan said in
comments on the website of the Asia-Pacific Amateur
Championship. “I don’t know what’s going to happen there, but I
know I just want to do well.”  The reigning U.S., British and Asia-Pacific amateur
champions are invited to the  Masters  each year. The youngest
player to take part in the first major golf tournament of the
year was Italy’s Matteo Manassero, who teed off in the 2010
edition 11 days before his 17th birthday.  Guan, a schoolboy from Guangzhou and China’s first Asia-
Pacific amateur champion, will be 14 years, five months, 17 days
old when the 2013 Masters begins April 11 at Augusta National
Golf Club in Augusta,  Georgia .  In June, 14-year-old Andy Zhang of China became the
youngest player to take part in the  U.S. Open .  The 125-pound (56 kilogram) Guan, the youngest player in
the field, punched the air after sinking a five-foot putt for
par on the final hole yesterday to finish one shot ahead of
Cheng-tsung Pan from  Taiwan . Australian Oliver Goss finished
third at 12-under, two strokes ahead of two-time champion Hideki
Matsuyama, Asia’s top-ranked amateur.  Guan’s victory also earns him a place in international
final qualifying for the 2013 British Open. Guan played at this
year’s China Open to become the youngest competitor at a
European Tour event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 