-- ICL Drops as Sale to Potash Corp. Is Seen More Unlikely
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-11-04T14:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/icl-drops-as-sale-to-potash-corp-is-seen-more-unlikely.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  fell the most
in three weeks in  Tel Aviv  after the chances of being acquired
by  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  appeared less likely of
receiving the required Israeli regulatory approvals.  The  shares  of the company that extracts minerals from the
 Dead Sea  to make fertilizer slid 2.4 percent, the biggest drop
since Oct. 9, to 47.35 shekels at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel
Aviv. The stock was the second-biggest loser on the benchmark
 TA-25 Index (TA-25) , which retreated 0.3 percent.  Executives at Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash held
talks with Israel Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and met with
government agencies about the “possibility of a merger,”
 Israel Corp. (ILCO)  said last week in a statement to Tel Aviv’s stock
exchange. Israel Corp. owns  52.3 percent  of Israel Chemicals.  Israel Corp.  shares  declined 3 percent, the biggest since
Oct. 9, to 2,583 shekels, the worst in the TA-25 today. Israel
Corp. said today any deal for Israel Chemicals would be subject
to regulatory approvals including the antitrust authority and
the tax authority.  “The shares are dropping on estimates the deal won’t go
through because of the sensitivity around a natural resource
like the Dead Sea,” Guil Bashan, an analyst at I.B.I-Israel
Brokerage & Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said today by phone.
“The move could be seen as not good by the public.”  ‘Not on Agenda’  Israel’s  Finance Ministry  on Nov. 2 asked Potash to clarify
its proposed acquisition after the ministry said the previous
day that the Canadian company’s offer is “not on the agenda”
and it has “professional reservations” about the transaction.  The government “won’t allow any deal that endangers or
impairs the economic and environmental interests of the State of
Israel and its citizens,” the Finance Ministry said in a Nov. 1
statement.  Any deal comes as the Dead Sea shrinks at a record rate,
prompting calls for Israel and Jordan to stop fertilizer makers
from siphoning so much of the water that has attracted visitors
since biblical times.  Friends of the Earth Middle East said today it plans to
fight any sale of Israel Chemicals to Potash Corp. as
transferring ownership of the country’s natural resources to a
multinational will make it harder for the government to change
royalties and advance environmental legislation.  Netanyahu called for early elections last month as the
government faces a deadlock on how to deal with its  budget
deficit .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  