-- Hidden Billionaire in Indonesia Reaps Gains From Palm Oil
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2012-11-04T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/hidden-billionaire-in-indonesia-reaps-gains-from-palm-oil.html
Gains from a share sale of  Bumitama
Agri (BAL)  Ltd., an Indonesian palm oil producer, and the growth of
mining in Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy have made Lim
Hariyanto Wijaya Sarwono a billionaire.  The 84-year-old chairman of Harita Group, a closely held
conglomerate based in Jakarta, is worth at least $1.8 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . The billionaire
and his son, Lim Gunawan Hariyanto, own about 53 percent of
Bumitama Agri, whose shares have outpaced other companies that
raised at least $50 million in an initial public offering in
 Singapore  this year. Lim had also planned to sell shares in its
nickel mining business in the city-state’s stock exchange.  “Driven by demand from Asia and principally  China  and
 India , the natural resources boom has created significant wealth
both for established ultra-high net worth families already in
the natural resources business, as well as for new fortune
hunters riding on the commodities boom,” said Noor Quek,
previously the head of business development in  Southeast Asia  at
Citigroup Inc.’s private-banking unit, who now runs Singapore-
based family office adviser NQ International Pte.  The richest man in  Indonesia  is Eka Tjipta Widjaja, whose
most valuable asset is his family’s 50 percent stake in Golden
Agri-Resources Ltd., the world’s second-largest palm oil grower,
according to the Bloomberg ranking. The country may surpass
 Germany  and the U.K. by 2030 to be the world’s seventh-largest
economy, generating $1.8 trillion in annual sales from
agriculture, consumer and energy companies by that year,
McKinsey & Co. said in a report in September.  Lim, whose family declined to comment on his net worth, has
never appeared on any international wealth ranking.  Chinese Migrants  Lim’s father, Lim Tju King, an immigrant from  Fujian
province  in China, started the family business by opening a
grocery store in Indonesia’s East Kalimantan province in 1915.
The younger Lim, who has seven children, expanded Harita Group,
first by trading timber logs and then venturing into plywood
manufacturing in 1983. Harita listed  PT Tirta Mahakam Resources (TIRT) ,
which makes plywood products, in Jakarta in 1999. The family
owns about 34 percent of Tirta Mahakam through PT Harita
Jayaraya.  Lim also formed mining ventures with overseas partners,
including gold production in Kelian, in East Kalimantan, with
 Rio Tinto Plc. (RIO)  Harita Jayaraya had a 10 percent stake in gold
miner PT Kelian Equatorial Mining, while  Rio Tinto  owned the
remaining 90 percent. They closed the mine, which started
operations in 1992, in 2005 as reserves declined.  Coal, Nickel  Harita also set up a venture in 1996 with Thai coal
producer  Lanna Resources Pcl (LANNA)  to develop coal deposits in
Indonesia, holding a 35 percent equity in the project.  The company had planned this year to raise at least $250
million in a public offering of its nickel mining business in
Singapore, valuing the unit at more than $800 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The family put its IPO plans on hold as Indonesia prepares
to ban raw-metal ore shipments from 2014 while compelling mining
companies to build smelters. The government will probably allow
some exports beyond that deadline to give more time for
processing plants to be built, Deputy Energy and Mineral
Resources Minister Rudi Rubiandini said in September. Mining
accounts for 12 percent of  Indonesia’s gross domestic product .  Indonesia banned exports of 32 types of unprocessed metals,
waiving the restriction for companies operating under so-called
mining business licenses that are planning to build local
refineries. Those shipments are subject to a 20 percent tax. The
country wants to boost the value of its commodity shipments to
support economic growth.  Palm Oil  Lim started the  palm oil  business in 1996, when Harita
bought its first land bank of 17,500 hectares in Central
Kalimantan and started planting two years later. Harita, which
sells the tropical oil and palm kernel in Indonesia, reorganized
its palm business in 2004 and stepped up its planting program.  IOI Corp., a Malaysian palm oil producer founded by
billionaire Lee Shin Cheng, bought a 33 percent stake in the
palm oil business from the Lim family in 2007. IOI owns about 31
percent of Bumitama after the IPO, and is its  biggest
shareholder  after the founding family.  Lim’s children are involved in running his businesses.
Gunawan, 52, is the chief executive officer of Bumitama and
Gunardi Hariyanto Lim, 47, is his deputy.  Bumitama has gained 35 percent since the  stock  started 
trading in April, exceeding the 3.2 percent increase in
Singapore’s benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)  The company’s IPO was
more than 30 times subscribed after attracting investors
including Wilmar International Ltd., the world’s biggest palm-
oil processor. Billionaire  Robert Kuok  owns about 28 percent of
Wilmar.  Young Trees  Bumitama, which has palm oil plantations mainly in
Kalimantan, on Indonesia’s part of Borneo island, expects an
increase in output as more of its trees reach “prime producing
years,” according to its financial report for the first half of
this year. Its trees have an average age of about five years,
making it one of the youngest plantations in the industry.  “A significant amount of immature plantations provides
Bumitama with a high production growth profile,” Agus Sandianto,
a Jakarta-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a
report dated Aug. 6.  Bumitama is set to double its crude palm oil production in
2015, from 345,111 metric tons in 2011, he said in the report.
The company has a total land bank of about 192,000 hectares, of
which 62 percent had been planted as of March. It wants to
increase the planted area by about 13,000 hectares annually over
the next four years.  Mum Wrong  The company’s shares have resisted the slump in palm oil
prices. The commodity, used in products such as biofuels and
candy, fell to a three-year low in October as economic slowdowns
in China and the  Europe  curbed demand, pushing reserves in
 Malaysia  to the highest ever. Palm-oil prices are set for a
“pronounced recovery” as demand for vegetable oils outpaces
consumption, Hamburg-based researcher Oil World said in October.  Around the time of its IPO, the company had advertised on
an office building facade by the Raffles Place metro station in
Singapore. As if to vindicate the family business’s expansion,
the slogan on the billboard said: “Mum was wrong. Slow and
steady doesn’t win the race.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore at 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  