-- Indonesia’s New Economic Model
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-11-04T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/indonesia-s-new-economic-model.html
Indonesia ’s most-promising
politician, Joko Widodo, who was elected governor of Jakarta
province last month, looks like  Barack Obama : lean and coolly
self-possessed in a way that seems as much  Bogartian  as
Javanese. Emerging out of nowhere, and serenely vaulting over
the heads of establishment politicians, he embodies the
possibility of change. But here the resemblance to the U.S.
president ends.  Obama is fighting to win re-election. Jokowi, as Widodo is
popularly known, enjoyed hugely successful terms in office as
the mayor of the Central Javanese city of Solo. Fulfilling most
of his promises, he was re-elected with a voting percentage --
90 percent -- more often enjoyed by dictators in the Central
Asian “stans.”  When I met Jokowi in Solo recently, as he was waiting to be
sworn in as the chief executive of Jakarta, he explained his
electoral triumph. He said he had preferred to work from
“bottom-up” rather than “top-down.” In a city of small merchants
and traders, he had made it easier to procure business permits
and licenses. He had supported local businessmen and traditional
crafts and industries such as batik. In a country notorious for
corruption and crony capitalism, he had favored small-food-cart
owners over global convenience store chains and shopping malls.  Homegrown Growth  Such a “bottom-up” record benefitted him greatly in
Jakarta, which has many underprivileged, rural migrants-cum-
entrepreneurs from Java. In Indonesia, as in  India , economic
liberalization has favored big-business men, who have used their
proximity to politicians to garner a disproportionate share of
national resources and income. The last governor of Jakarta, and
Jokowi’s rival, for instance, turned out to own a Van Gogh
painting.  At one level, Jokowi’s tactics remind you of populist
politicians elsewhere in Asia: people who built up vote banks
among the poor majority by railing against big-business men and
their political allies. To this category belongs  Thailand ’s
Thaksin Shinawatra as well as the chief minister of the Indian
state of West Bengal,  Mamata Banerjee , who stands perennially
ready to thwart the most tentative economic initiative by
India’s central government.  But, unlike Thaksin, Jokowi appears to have no shady links
with the world of big business. And, unlike Banerjee, his
populism is more than some uncreative rabble-rousing.  Rather, Jokowi has quietly focused on developing a “people-
centered economy.” This involves helping to upgrade traditional
crafts and skills so that local products can compete with
imports from  China , while also deepening regional identities (a
distinctive feature of central Javanese culture).  Jokowi’s success has predictably attracted Indonesia’s
establishment parties. There is much talk in Jakarta that Jokowi
might stand for the presidential election due in 2014.  But Jokowi himself dismisses this speculation. He told me
that he has a job to attend to in Jakarta. And it is an
unenviably formidable one. Jakarta is the chaotic setting,
simultaneously, of floods, slums, poverty, crime, subsiding
land, and some of the world’s most notorious traffic jams.  According to Jokowi, Jakarta needs not more roads and
freeways -- the hundreds of new car owners every day would
quickly turn those into parking lots as well -- but more public
 mass transport . A monorail project, long dormant, may now be
revived.  Ethnic Appeal  Jokowi’s rise points to some major shifts in Indonesian
politics. In recent years, a fast-growing economy and a
decentralized administrative structure have empowered such
figures as bupatis (regents) and walikotas (mayors), who were
previously nominated to their posts by the central government in
Jakarta.  Plundering generous budgets and selling off national
resources, many of these autonomous officials have confirmed
Indonesia’s reputation as one of the world’s  most-corrupt 
countries.  But others such as Jokowi and Surabaya’s mayor, Tri
Rismaharini, represent what Karim Raslan, one of the keenest
observers of Southeast  Asia , calls “a distinct but important
part of Indonesia’s future.”  This is true in more ways than one. Jokowi’s appeal in
Jakarta transcended the ethnic and religious passions that many
of Indonesia’s political class are often eager to stoke. In the
world’s largest Muslim country, Jokowi took a calculated risk in
choosing as his running mate a bupati-turned-parliamentarian
named Basuki Tjahaja Purnama (widely known as Ahok), who is both
Christian and ethnically Chinese.  Together, Jokowi and Ahok fended off many malicious attacks
on their allegedly un-Islamic outlook. They were helped by an
increasingly mature electorate -- one that distrusts venal and
inept politicians more than it thrills to invocations of
religious and ethnic solidarity.  But Jokowi’s ascent also has another, larger meaning.  In recent years, the energies unleashed by mass democracy
and global capitalism have frequently collided across Asia.
Jokowi shows one way out of that impasse by seeking to assist an
indigenous entrepreneurial class -- one that can hold its own
against globally resourced competitors. By working with small-
business men, he overturns a general preference across
postcolonial Asia for top-down technologies of nation-building,
in which the heavily centralized state oversees economic growth,
through either state-owned enterprises or big, private
corporations.  As early as the 1970s, the Indonesian thinker  Soedjatmoko 
had warned against the heedless technocracy that opened up
massive disparities between the center and the periphery and
rural and urban areas while destroying native self-confidence.
“We will,” Soedjatmoko wrote presciently, “have to turn
developmental thinking upside down.”  This is what Jokowi seems to be doing. His form of
localization seems more imperative as global capitalism falters,
exposing its socioeconomic contradictions and steep
environmental costs.  Populous, diverse and largely agrarian societies such as
Indonesia always had to find their own way of being modern.
Jokowi is now advancing this necessary but unconscionably
delayed experiment in a chaotic and still half-modern city. His
success will mean real “change” -- and it will have major
implications for not only Jakarta or Indonesia but also much of
Asia.  ( Pankaj Mishra , the author of “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist, based in  London  and Mashobra, India.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  improving federal economic
disaster aid  and on  why inequality wasn’t a big campaign issue ;
William D. Cohan on  how the next administration should deal with
Wall Street ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  how Bill Clinton is the big
winner  of this election; Cass R. Sunstein on  why regulatory
reform will continue ;  Steven Greenhut  on  California’s post-
election future ; Carl Pope on  what’s behind Mitt Romney’s anti-
environmentalism .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 