-- Insomnia Doubles Risk of Heart Attack, Stroke in Study
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-11-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/insomnia-doubles-risk-of-heart-attack-stroke-in-study.html
Sleep difficulties, a problem for as
many as 70 million Americans, can double one’s risk of heart
attack or stroke, according to a  study .  The study by researchers in Taiwan found that people with
insomnia were twice as likely to have heart attacks or strokes
than those without the sleep disorder during the trial’s four-
year period. The research was presented yesterday at the
 American Heart Association  meeting in Los Angeles.  The findings add to previous research showing not enough
sleep can contribute to high blood pressure and waking too early
may raise heart risks. Sleep should be part of the patient-
doctor discussion during checkups, said  Kristen Knutson , a sleep
researcher who wasn’t part of the study.  “A lot of people and many physicians don’t ask about
sleep,” said Knutson, an assistant professor in the Department
of Medicine at the University of Chicago, in a Nov. 2 telephone
interview. “The first thing is to talk to their patients and
also for the patients to talk to their doctors about their sleep
and discussing sleep as one of the many important health
behaviors like diet and exercise.”  No one is certain how lack of sleep contributes to heart
attacks and strokes, she said. It may be that the body’s “fight
or flight” system is more active with not enough sleep, which
can increase heart rate and over time increase blood pressure
and raise the risk for cardiovascular disease, she said.  Chronic insomnia  affects about 1 in 5 adults, and is also a
risk factor for depression, substance abuse, and impaired waking
function, according to the National Institutes of Health.  Study Results  Researchers in the study looked at more than 43,000 people
ages 45 or older who were part of the  Taiwan National Health
Insurance Research Database , including 10,871 who were diagnosed
with insomnia.  They found that over four years, there were 424 heart
attacks and 3,307 strokes. Those in the insomnia group were 2.3
times more likely to have a heart attack and 1.99 times more
likely to have a stroke than those who didn’t suffer from the
sleep disorder, the authors said.  Few studies have looked at the relationship between
insomnia and heart events in Asian populations, Chien-Yi Hsu,
the study’s lead researcher, said in a Nov. 3 e-mail. Based on
the results, doctors should add sleep disturbances to the list
of modifiable factors that may help prevent heart disease,
including high blood pressure, smoking, obesity and diet, he
said.  “Doctors should pay more attention to their patient’s
insomnia symptoms, and consider using different methods to
improve sleep, including medical, psychological or behavioral
therapy, which might improve subject quality of life and reduce
the risk of cardiovascular disease,” said Hsu, a doctor in the
Division of Cardiology at Taipei Veterans General Hospital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  