-- Jerry Brown Has Pathetic Plan B for California
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-11-04T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/jerry-brown-has-pathetic-plan-b-for-california.html
California’s Proposition 30, which
would raise sales and income taxes, is  sinking  fast in the
polls. Voters are realizing that the measure -- the heart and
soul of Governor  Jerry Brown ’s plan to “save” California -- is
just another cynically devised and promoted way to prop up the
status quo.  The measure is slightly ahead, but dropping below the
critical 50 percent mark, which is a trouble sign as Election
Day approaches. Californians tend to vote for politicians who
want to raise taxes, but are more conservative when it comes to
direct tax increases.  As the Sacramento Bee’s Dan Walters  wrote  last week, state-
government insiders are “turning their attention, however
reluctantly, to the fallout should, indeed, voters reject” the
tax plan. Brown says there is no Plan B.  He has been traveling around the state issuing dire
warnings that he will have to cut education spending and
children will suffer.  “I’ve never quite seen such a stark black-and-white issue
in my life in government,” he said in an  interview  with the
 Associated Press . He spoke recently at an elementary school in
 San Diego  that was surrounded by “Yes on 30” political signs in
Spanish and English, and whose principal declared, “There’s
nowhere left to cut.”  Trigger Cuts  Yet the only reason that school funding is at risk for so-
called trigger cuts is because the governor and Democratic
legislators  jiggered  the budget to maximize the political
message of Proposition 30. They built the budget around the
assumption that it would pass, then “slashed” billions of
dollars from education so they could warn about doomsday cuts.  “Many editorial pages failed to point out the brutal
blackmail represented by the Prop. 30 strategy of creating a $5
billion hole in the K-12 education budget,” Chris Reed, a San
Diego Union-Tribune editorial writer, wrote in a CalWatchDog
 article.  “Now those editorial pages are saying the hole can only
be fixed by voters joining Brown in pretending that Prop. 30
supporters hold the moral high ground.”  In fact, there’s little chance education spending will be
dramatically reduced. “What we do know is that his allies in the
educational establishment, especially unions such as the
 California Teachers Association , have no intention of meekly
accepting the trigger cuts, even if most school districts have
already built that worst-case scenario into their current
budgets,” the Bee’s Walters wrote.  Brown was stung not only by anti-tax groups, but by a
competing measure on the ballot, Proposition 38, which would
increase the income tax on almost all Californians for a dozen
years, mainly to finance public education, with some money also
earmarked for debt reduction. The ad campaign for that
initiative, which is backed by  Molly Munger , the daughter of
billionaire Charles Munger, showed money flowing out of a
schoolhouse and into the greedy hands of politicians. The image
stuck.  The Los Angeles Times  criticized  the governor last week for
failing to settle on a “central sales pitch” for the
proposition. But he has been pushed off-message after events of
the previous few months highlighted state-spending outrages.  For instance, the governor  warned  that 70 parks would close
to save $33 million, but then the Sacramento Bee uncovered $54
million in hidden parks-department accounts, with employees
granting themselves improper vacation payouts. Brown was also
blamed for agreeing to a pension “reform” measure that barely
touched the problem of the state’s obligations to its public
employees. And the more voters know about his  high-speed train 
to nowhere, a plan that would cost billions of dollars, the more
they realize that  California ’s government isn’t even cut at the
flesh, let alone the bone.  Exaggerated Cuts  There’s even doubt that the trigger cuts in the schools
will be real decreases. Government agencies often complain about
draconian budgets, when what they really mean is a reduction in
the rate of spending growth -- a ploy in every campaign season.  “Even if the measure fails, funding for schools is expected
to increase 21 percent from 2012 to 2015 because of economic
growth,” according to a San Jose Mercury News  analysis  of the
proposition. “Look at it this way: Say you’re expecting a $100-
per-week raise at work. But then you don’t get it, and you tell
your friends that you have to cut back by $100 a week.” That
hardly amounts to the starkest choice in our lifetime, as Brown
describes it.  A long-term look at California’s education spending
 published  by  Pepperdine University  in 2010 confirms the Mercury
News report. “In reality, total expenditures (excluding  Capital
Expenditures ) have increased every year from FY 2003-04 through
FY 2007-08, before leveling off in FY 2008-09,” wrote the
researchers  Steven Frates  and  Michael Shires . With  capital
spending  included, total expenditures have gone up every year.
Classrooms lost out as more money flowed toward administrative
salaries and the school bureaucracy.  In a  new study  which looks at California’s overall budget
numbers, Frates and Ian Rudge have found that state-government
spending on public-employee pay and benefits grew three times as
fast as the growth in personal income for all Californians. Had
the state limited compensation growth to about 10 percent from
2005 to 2010, it would have saved more than $2 billion -- enough
to avoid 25,000 teacher layoffs.  That’s more evidence that California has a spending, rather
than a revenue, problem.  If Brown’s tax-increase plan fails, he vows to veto any
effort to overturn the trigger cuts. Republican reformers in the
Legislature, which is dominated by Democrats, say they have a
better way: reducing the budget with changes such as prison
outsourcing, real pension reform, elimination of needless
agencies, and public-school competition.  Ever cynical, perhaps Brown knows that if Proposition 30
fails, he will have tried his best to sustain the status quo and
will have nothing left to do but cut the government. That’s
wishful thinking. Until California’s leaders become serious
about cutting -- and targeting the right things, such as public-
sector union benefits and privileges -- there’s little hope that
California will break out of its downward cycle.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  improving federal economic
disaster aid  and on  why inequality wasn’t a big campaign issue ;
William D. Cohan on  how the next administration should deal with
Wall Street ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  how Bill Clinton is the big
winner  of this election;  Pankaj Mishra  on  Indonesia’s new
economic model  for  Asia ; Cass R. Sunstein on  why regulatory
reform will continue ; Carl Pope on  what’s behind Mitt Romney’s
anti-environmentalism .  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 