-- Vettel Keeps Title Bid on Course as Raikkonen Wins in Abu Dhabi
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-11-04T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/kimi-raikkonen-wins-abu-dhabi-grand-prix-vettel-leads-standings.html
Kimi Raikkonen  of Lotus won the  Abu
Dhabi  Grand Prix yesterday as  Red Bull ’s Sebastian Vettel fought
his way up to third position to keep his lead in the drivers’
standings.  Vettel had to start from the pit lane after incurring a
penalty in qualifying. He surged from the rear of the field, and
survived damage to his car, to keep his championship quest on
target after the 55-lap day-night race at the Yas Marina
circuit. Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  was second in a crash-
littered race.  Vettel, who was aiming for a fifth straight race win, now
has a 10-point advantage over Alonso. McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton ,
who started on pole, retired while in the lead when his car
lost power.  “There are still two races to go,” Vettel said at the
post-race ceremony when asked if he could clinch a third
straight world title. “We saw how things can change,” he
added, referring to the penalty he’d suffered. The German said
he’d always believed he could get a podium finish even after
starting down the field.  “Yes, I did,” he said. “We had a messy start and damaged
the front wing. I said to myself either we go full attack or
nothing and that’s what we did.”  It was Raikkonen’s first Formula One win since the Belgian
Grand Prix in August 2009. The Finn won the world title in 2007
and didn’t compete in 2010 and 2011. He started from fourth on
the grid yesterday.  “I’m very happy for the team and myself, mainly for the
team,” Raikkonen, 32, said after his 19th career win. “It’s
been a hard season, not an easy time, but hopefully this gives
us more belief. I hope this can turn the tables and give us many
more wins, if not this year then for next year.”  It was a first win for the Lotus name since 1987, although
the brand has gone though changes of ownerships and
restructurings in the intervening years.  Fuel Infringement  Vettel, who qualified in third place, was demoted as his
car infringed rules by containing less than the required level
of fuel after qualifying ended.  He sustained damage on his wing early in the race when he
made contact with Bruno Senna’s Williams yet still was able to
move up 10 places in the first eight laps. He sustained more
damage on touching a polystyrene barrier when moving to avoid a
slowing car in front during the first of two safety-car periods.
That necessitated a pit stop that dropped him back to 21st.  Nico Rosberg  of Mercedes and HRT’s Narain Karthikeyan
exited the race after a spectacular collision that sent the
German’s Mercedes airborne. Both men walked away unscathed as
the safety car entered the race while damage was cleared away.  Hamilton Exit  On the 20th lap, Hamilton seemed in control of the race
before pulling on to the grass as his engine lost power,
allowing Raikkonen to take over the lead. Alonso then got past
Williams’s Pastor Maldonado to take second spot.  Meanwhile Vettel was on a charge and moved up to seventh
spot. A round of pit stops by other drivers then enabled him to
move up to second behind Raikkonen, followed by Alonso and
Button, before the German dropped back after his own pit stop.  Raikkonen managed to stave off Alonso for the rest of the
race to get his first win of his comeback year. The Spaniard
moved to within a second of Raikkonen, but couldn’t get past
him.  Red Bull’s  Mark Webber  was involved in collisions with
Maldonado and  Felipe Massa  of Ferrari before he was finally put
out of the race after an incident involving Sauber’s Sergio
Perez and  Romain Grosjean  of Lotus.  Jenson Button  of McLaren was fourth, followed by Maldonado,
Sauber’s Kamui Kobayashi, Massa and Senna. Force  India ’s Paul Di
Resta and Daniel Ricciardo of Toro Rosso were the other points-
scorers.  Vettel’s points advantage was reduced to 10 from 13 after
yesterday’s race. He has 255, followed by Alonso (245),
Raikkonen (198), Webber (167) and Hamilton (165).  Red Bull leads the constructors’ competition with 422
points, while Ferrari has 340 and McLaren has 318. Lotus has
288.  The next event, the 19th on the 20-race calendar, is the
U.S. Grand Prix at Austin on Nov. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  