-- Nanny Charged With Murder in Manhattan Child Killings
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-11-05T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/nanny-charged-with-murder-in-manhattan-child-killings.html
A  New York  City woman who worked as a
nanny for an Upper West Side couple in  Manhattan  was charged
with multiple counts of murder for allegedly killing two of
their children, police said.  Yoselyn Ortega, 50, was charged Nov. 3 with two counts each
of first-degree and second-degree murder for the Oct. 25
killings of the children, who were in her care. Lucia Krim, 6,
and Leo Krim, 2, were killed in the bathroom of their parents’
apartment on West 75th Street, New York Police Department
spokesman  Paul Browne  said in an e-mailed statement. Ortega
faces possible  life imprisonment  if convicted.  She was formally arrested after agreeing to an interview
with detectives at her bedside at New York Presbyterian/Weill
Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan, where she had been held
since the killings while recovering from what police said
appeared to be self-inflicted wounds. Ortega remains
hospitalized and under police guard, Browne said.  The Manhattan District Attorney’s Office declined to
immediately comment on possible court proceedings against Ortega,
who may be arraigned in her hospital room by a state judge if
she isn’t able to appear in court. It was unclear if she had
retained a defense lawyer.  Ortega, a naturalized U.S. citizen from the  Dominican
Republic , had been in the U.S. for 10 years and worked for the
Krims for two years, according to New York Police Commissioner
Raymond Kelly. She lived in Upper Manhattan with her son, her
sister and her sister’s daughter.  Dance Studio  On the day of the killings, the children’s mother, Marina
Krim, had gone to a neighborhood YMCA for swimming lessons with
her 3-year-old daughter, police said. She was supposed to meet
the nanny and the two other children at a dance studio later in
the evening, according to Kelly.  When the nanny didn’t appear, the mother went to the
apartment and found her son, Leo, and daughter, Lucia, in the
bathroom with stab wounds to their bodies, saidBrowne. When the
mother entered the bathroom, the nanny started to stab herself,
Browne said. Police said they found Ortega was on the bathroom
floor with a knife next to her.  The two children were taken to St. Luke’s Hospital, where
they were pronounced dead. The nanny was taken to New York
Presbyterian, where she had been intubated and unable to speak
until last week, when she agreed to discuss the matter with
detectives, police said.  The children’s father, Kevin Krim, worked at Bloomberg LP
until last year when he joined CNBC as general manager for
digital. Detectives met Krim, who was on his way back to the
city from a business trip, at  John F. Kennedy International
Airport .  Bloomberg LP is the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State  Supreme Court 
in Manhattan at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  