-- Napoli, Lazio Fail to Benefit From Juve’s Loss; Marseille Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-11-04T23:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/napoli-lazio-fail-to-benefit-from-juve-s-loss-marseille-wins.html
Third-place Napoli was held to a 1-1
draw by Torino in Italian soccer’s Serie A, a day after  Inter
Milan  ended Juventus’ 49-game unbeaten league run. Marseille
moved level on points with French leader Paris Saint-Germain.  Napoli took a sixth-minute lead against Torino yesterday
through Edinson Cavani. The home team was denied the victory
when Gianluca Sansone scored in second-half stoppage time.  Lazio fell to a 4-0 defeat at Catania and drops to fifth
place, with Fiorentina moving into fourth after beating Cagliari
4-1. Juventus remains top even after its 3-1 defeat by Inter,
which is now one point back. Diego Milito got two goals and
Rodrigo Palacio also scored for Inter, which has 27 points
through 11 games.  In France’s Ligue 1, goals from Andre Ayew and his brother
Jordan secured a 2-0 win for Marseille at AC Ajaccio yesterday.  PSG, which has played one more match, was upset 2-1 by
visiting  Saint Etienne  two days ago. Zlatan Ibrahimovic was red-
carded for the home team.  Toulouse missed a chance to join both teams on 22 points
following a 1-0 loss at Bordeaux. Lyon won 5-2 against Bastia
and is third, one point behind the leaders.  Levante moved up to fifth place in Spain’s La Liga
following a 0-0 draw last night at Sevilla, which remains in
seventh place.  Barcelona Top  Barcelona has a three-point lead atop the standings after
making its best start to a La Liga season, with nine wins and a
draw from 10 matches. Adriano,  David Villa  and Jordi Alba scored
in a 3-1 win against Celta Vigo two days ago, as second-place
 Atletico Madrid  lost 2-0 at Valencia.  Real Madrid is third after a 4-0 win against Real Zaragoza.  Bayern Munich  has a seven point lead in the Bundesliga as
Schalke and Eintracht Frankfurt both failed to win this weekend.  Bayern won 3-0 at Hamburg two days ago, Schalke lost 3-2 at
Hoffenheim, while Frankfurt tied 1-1 against Greuther Fuerth on
Nov. 2.  Bayer Leverkusen  is fourth, a further two points back,
after a 3-2 victory against Fortuna Dusseldorf yesterday.  Eredivisie leader  FC Twente  beat Feyenoord 3-0 yesterday
and is one point ahead of  PSV Eindhoven , a 4-0 winner against
Heracles the previous day. Third-place  Vitesse Arnhem  won 2-0 at
Ajax two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 