-- Obama, Romney Vie for Swing-State Support in Final Push
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-11-04T23:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/obama-romney-vie-for-swing-state-support-in-final-push.html
With less than forty-eight hours
before Election Day, President  Barack Obama  implored supporters
to get to the polls and  Mitt Romney  made a longshot push in
traditionally Democratic  Pennsylvania  for an alternate path to
victory.  Romney planned a stop in Morrisville, Pennsylvania, later
today, marking his first time in the state since Sept. 28. As
polls show Obama closing out the campaign with an edge in  Ohio 
and  Iowa , a victory in Pennsylvania could give Romney a way to
capture the 270 electoral votes needed for victory. Democrats
said the effort is a sign of the Republican’s desperation.  Kicking off a busy day of campaigning in Iowa this morning,
Romney rallied thousands of supporters with promises he would
work with Democrats to change the direction of the country.  “You reach across the street to your neighbor with a yard
sign,” Romney told several thousand voters in  Des Moines .
“I’ll reach across the aisle to the people from the other
party.”  Democrat Obama began campaigning in  New Hampshire , standing
side-by-side with former President  Bill Clinton  as he assured
14,000 supporters he would continue to push and protect
Democratic priorities such as health care and college financial
aid.  ‘Real Progress’  “We have made real progress,” the president said in
Concord. “Our work is not yet done. Our fight has to go on.”  The two candidates conducted 11th-hour searches for votes
as a  poll released today  suggested that the president’s response
to the damage from  Hurricane Sandy  helped his standing with
voters. Nationwide, Obama led Romney 48 percent to 45 percent in
an Oct. 31-Nov. 3 poll conducted by the Pew Research Center.
Sixty-nine percent of those surveyed approved of Obama’s
handling of the storm recovery. An Oct. 24-28 survey by Pew,
conducted before Sandy hit the Northeast, showed the race was
deadlocked at 47 percent apiece.  Today’s survey of 2,709 likely voters has an error margin
of 2.2 percentage points. Women voters favor Obama 53 percent to
40 percent, while Romney holds an advantage over Obama among
men, 50 percent to 42 percent.  Speaking to supporters today in  Cleveland , Ohio, Romney
said a win by Obama is “possible but not likely.”  Pennsylvania Push  White House senior adviser  David Plouffe  described Romney’s
push in Pennsylvania today, as a “desperate ploy at the end of
the campaign” on ABC’s “This Week.” Republican aides insist
the state is in play, casting their late push as a sign their
campaign has momentum and can compete in areas Democrats assumed
they would win handily.  “This is one of those states that came into view after the
first debate,” Romney spokesman  Kevin Madden  told reporters on
his campaign plane. “We see it as a great opportunity.”  Romney’s campaign and their Republican allies have poured
millions of dollars in advertising into Pennsylvania in the
final weeks. Democrats, though, have a million-voter
registration advantage and say they have built a stronger
turnout operation to get their supporters to the polls.  A Pennsylvania poll showed the race tightening for the
state’s 20 electoral votes.  Obama led Romney in a Franklin & Marshall College Poll of
registered Pennsylvania voters, 48 percent to 44 percent. The
survey, conducted Oct. 23-28, had a margin of error of 4.2
percentage points. The president’s lead was cut from 11 points
in September.  Romney’s itinerary shows he and his advisers “understand
they are in deep trouble,” Axelrod said on a “Fox News
Sunday” broadcast. “They have tried to expand the map because
they know in states like Ohio” that “they are behind and they
are not catching up.”  Ohio’s Importance  Senator  Rob Portman  of Ohio, one of Romney’s leading
surrogates on the campaign trail, said on CNN’s “ State of the
Union ” it would be difficult for the Republican to win the
White House without Ohio. “I wouldn’t want to risk it,” he
said.  No Republican has ever won the presidency without carrying
Ohio. A Columbus Dispatch poll showed that Obama’s 50 percent to
48 percent lead over Romney in Ohio was within the mail survey’s
2.2 percentage point error margin among 1,501 likely voters. An
NBC/Wall Street Journal poll released yesterday showed Obama led
Romney 51 percent to 45 percent in the state, outside the
survey’s 3.1 percentage point margin of error.  As Romney crisscrossed battleground states and time zones
in his final campaign sprint, he was joined by more than a dozen
of his top aides. With their strategy set and little left to do
except watch the polls, the advisers took photos, joked on the
campaign plane and savored the final moments of a presidential
bid almost six-years in the making.  Obama in Florida  “It’s hard not be just really moved by it,” said deputy
campaign manager Katie Packer Gage. “Especially when you
started out where we did a year ago.”  The president was headed to  Florida , where Democrats said
they filed suit to force Republican Governor  Rick Scott  to
extend early voting because of record turnout in  South Florida ,
a Democratic stronghold.  “We encourage anyone who is in line to vote to stay in
line,” Rod Smith, the Florida Democratic Party chairman, said
in a statement. “As long as you are in line when the polls
close, you can still vote.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Des Moines or  llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  