-- Hong Kong Volatility at Year Low Versus VIX: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-11-05T01:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/hong-kong-volatility-at-year-low-versus-vix-china-overnight.html
The cost of protecting against losses
in Chinese stocks relative to U.S. equities fell to a one-year
low on prospects the slowdown in the world’s second-largest
economy will ease.  The AlphaShares Chinese Volatility Index, derived from
options on companies listed in Hong Kong, traded at 18.61 on
Oct. 31, 1 percentage point above the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index and the smallest gap since September
2011. The premium has narrowed from as much as 1.43 percent on
Sept. 9. Both the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  and the
 iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese exchange-
traded fund in the U.S., touched the highest level since May
last week.  The  yuan  strengthened to a 19-year high on Oct. 29 and
monetary authorities in Hong Kong intervened to curb gains in
their dollar as flows into Chinese equity funds surged to the
most since 2008 in the week to Oct. 24, EPFR Global data showed.
Improving reports on industrial production, manufacturing and
retail sales since Oct. 18 have bolstered prospects the world’s
second-largest economy may be  recovering  after a seven-quarter
slowdown.  “The fear indexes such as volatility are down as some real
optimism about the Chinese economy appears to be coming back,”
Kevin Carter, co-founder and chief executive officer of Baochuan
Capital Management LLC, which oversees about $325 million, said
by phone from San Francisco on Nov. 2. “Over the last eight
weeks a switch got turned on regarding China and as the market
has gone higher, it reinforced a more favorable outlook.”  Faster Growth  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in New York advanced 0.5 percent to 94.81 last
week, after posting a 2 percent increase in October. The  iShares
FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI)  gained 1.4 percent to $37.46 in a week
shortened by  Hurricane Sandy .  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
companies, also known as the H-share index, added 3.7 percent to
10,833.73 last week. The measure rose more than 20 percent from
a Sept. 5 low, indicating the start of a bull market. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 2.5 percent to 2,117.05. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.2 percent to 1,414.20.  Growth in Chinese power consumption will rebound in the
last three months of 2012 as the nation recovers from a seven-
quarter slowdown, the China Electricity Council said on Oct. 30.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 50.2 in October from
49.8 in September, the National Bureau of Statistics and  China 
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said Nov. 1. That matched
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 30 economists.
A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  ‘Rally Further’  A separate purchasing managers’ index for the nation’s
services industries increased to 55.5 last month from
September’s 53.7, the statistics bureau and logistics federation
reported on Nov. 3. The two PMI measures follow government data
showing industrial production rebounded in September and retail
sales surged.  “Bearish sentiment toward Chinese stocks has been reversed
and this is the beginning of a rally,” Michael Ding, lead
manager of the China Region Fund at U.S. Global Investors Inc.,
which oversees $2.2 billion, said by phone on Oct. 26 from San
Antonio,  Texas . “Inflowing funds will help Chinese stocks to
rally further as we’ve seen stronger figures in many areas over
the last two weeks.”  Chinese stocks traded in New York extended a third month of
gains last week, as  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  rallied on
October’s record gaming revenue in Macau.  Golden Week  American depositary receipts of Hong Kong-based Melco
increased 3.7 percent in the week to $14.89, the highest level
since May 2.  Seaspan Corp. (SSW)  climbed 8.2 percent to $17.11, the
biggest advance since June, as the container ship operator
reported a third-quarter profit after losses in the same period
last year.  Macau casino revenue  increased to 27.7 billion patacas
($3.5 billion) in October, topping a record set in the same
month last year, as promotions during the Golden Week holiday
attracted more Chinese tourists to the world’s biggest gambling
hub. China is building a high-speed rail and bridge linking
Macau with Hong Kong and the mainland as the nation strives to
spur economic growth.  “Melco is a very well-run casino that has benefited from
growth in  Macau  and will continue to benefit as new
infrastructure makes it easier to get to the island,” Lawrence Haverty, a portfolio manager at Gamco Investors Inc., which
oversees $36.7 billion in assets including Melco, said by phone
Nov. 2 from Rye, New York. “The long-term story for the casino
stocks there is very powerful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  