-- Steelers End Giants’ NFL Win Streak as Falcons Improve to 8-0
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-11-05T05:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/houston-texans-chicago-bears-both-win-to-advance-to-7-1-in-nfl.html
The Pittsburgh Steelers ended the New
York Giants’ four-game winning streak by erasing a 10-point
fourth-quarter deficit for a 24-20 victory, while the Atlanta
Falcons remained the National Football League’s only undefeated
team with a 19-13 win over the  Dallas Cowboys .  Isaac Redman rushed for 147 yards for the Steelers
yesterday at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey, and
scored the go-ahead touchdown with four minutes, two seconds
remaining. The Giants lost a total of eight yards on their three
fourth-quarter drives in blowing a 20-10 lead.  “That is as disappointing a loss as we’ve had in a long
time,” Giants coach  Tom Coughlin  said at a news conference.
“Offensively, again, for a couple games in a row, we didn’t
play well. We didn’t appear to be very aggressive.”  The Steelers won their third consecutive game to improve to
5-3 and remain a game behind the Baltimore Ravens in the
American Football Conference North Division. The Giants fall to
6-3 and stay in first place in the National Football Conference
East Division. It was New York’s first home loss since the
season opener against the Cowboys.  While the Falcons scored 13 fourth-quarter points to pull
away from the Cowboys and improve to 8-0 on the season, the
Chicago Bears and Houston Texans both moved to 7-1 with wins.  Brandon Marshall  scored three touchdowns as Chicago logged
its sixth straight victory, 51-20 against the Tennessee Titans.
The Texans made it two wins in a row with a 21-9 defeat of the
Buffalo Bills.  Rookie Rusher  Rookie Doug Martin rushed for 251 yards and four touchdowns
yesterday to lead the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to a 42-32 win over
the Oakland Raiders.  Mike Anderson  was the only other player in
NFL history to rush for at least 250 yards and four scores in a
game, doing it on Dec. 3, 2000.  First-year quarterback  Andrew Luck  threw for 433 yards and
two scores as the Indianapolis Colts defeated the Miami Dolphins
23-20. Luck eclipsed the NFL rookie record of 432 yards in a
game set by Carolina’s Cam Newton last season.  Aaron Rodgers  threw four touchdown passes as the Green Bay
Packers beat the Arizona Cardinals 31-17 to push their winning
streak to four games, and  Peyton Manning  passed for three scores
in the Denver Broncos’ 31-23 win over the Cincinnati Bengals.
When Manning had two touchdowns in the fourth quarter to help
Denver erase a 20-17 deficit, it was his 48th career game-
winning drive in the final quarter or overtime, surpassing Hall
of Famer Dan Marino for the NFL’s most since 1970.  Other Scores  Elsewhere in Week 9 of the regular season it was Baltimore
25, Cleveland 15; Seattle 30, Minnesota 20; Carolina 21,
Washington 13; and Detroit 31, Jacksonville 14.  Week 9 play, which began with a 31-13 win Nov. 1 for the
San Diego Chargers (4-4) over the Kansas City Chiefs (1-7),
concludes tonight with the New Orleans Saints (2-5) hosting the
Philadelphia Eagles (3-4).  The  New York Jets ,  New England Patriots ,  San Francisco
49ers  and St. Louis Rams don’t play this week.  The Giants scored two touchdowns in a span of less than two
minutes during the second quarter to open a 14-7 lead, as Andre
Brown scored on a 1-yard run and linebacker Michael Boley
scooped up a Ben Roethlisberger fumble and returned it 70 yards.  Shaun Suisham kicked a 30-yard field goal for Pittsburgh as
time expired in the first half before  Lawrence Tynes  made a pair
of third-quarter field goals to push the Giants’ lead to 20-10.
On the second play of the fourth quarter, Pittsburgh’s  Mike Wallace  caught a short pass from quarterback Roethlisberger, cut
across the field and raced 51 yards for a touchdown that pulled
the Steelers within 20-17.  Redman’s Score  The Giants stopped the Steelers on a fake field goal
attempt with 10:30 remaining, yet Redman gave Pittsburgh the
lead on their next drive with his one-yard plunge.  Giants quarterback  Eli Manning , who’s led 11 fourth-quarter
comebacks the past two years, failed to get a first down against
Pittsburgh’s defense in the final 15 minutes.  “We weren’t as sharp as we needed to be,” said Manning,
who completed 10-of-24 passes for 125 yards, his lowest total in
playing a full game since Dec. 23, 2007. “We’re just not
executing.”  The game was played six days after  Hurricane Sandy  killed
at least 22 people in New Jersey and was linked to 42 deaths in
New York City.  “We had a lot riding on this game,” Giants defensive end
 Justin Tuck  said. “Everyone knows about what’s taken place this
last week in this area. A lot of us have been affected ourselves
and we wanted to come out and put some smiles on faces. That’s
frustrating.”  Unbeaten Falcons  In Atlanta,  Michael Turner  had a three-yard touchdown run
to snap a 6-6 fourth-quarter tie and Matt Bryant kicked four
field goals as the Falcons won their eighth straight game.  In Nashville, the Bears scored four first-quarter
touchdowns in just over a five-minute span to open a 28-2 lead.
Marshall and  Matt Forte  each had offensive touchdowns, while
Corey Wootton scored on a blocked punt and Brian Urlacher
returned an interception 46 yards for a touchdown.  Chicago’s defense forced five turnovers in winning its
sixth straight game.  In Houston, quarterback  Matt Schaub  threw a pair of
touchdown passes and  Arian Foster  scored a touchdown for the
10th straight game as the Texans continued the best start in
franchise history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  