-- How Government Can Help the Economy Recover From Sandy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-11-04T23:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/how-government-can-help-the-economy-recover-from-sandy.html
If natural disasters such as
 Hurricane Sandy  are becoming more frequent, and their aftermaths
more expensive, then the federal response needs to become more
dynamic. Especially in fostering economic recovery, there’s more
the U.S. government can do.  Some steps are small and obvious, yet still valuable.
 Barack Obama ’s administration, to its credit, has made progress
in cutting  disaster-relief  red tape, for example. Still, the
patchwork of application requirements and eligibility criteria
businesses must sort through to receive aid can be further
streamlined and made more consistent across agencies.  It may also make sense to designate one federal agency as
responsible for economic disaster relief. Whatever agency takes
the lead (a  report  from the International Economic Development
Council recommends the Department of Commerce’s Economic
Development Administration) should have a consistent, dedicated
level of money on hand to respond to disasters. The IEDC
suggests $100 million. This would free up cash quickly and help
insulate economic disaster relief from political manipulation.  Fed’s Role  In terms of monetary policy, a  study  by the Federal Reserve
Bank of  St. Louis  found that in most cases, the central bank
should actually increase its nominal interest-rate target after
a natural disaster. When a catastrophe destroys capital
and decreases production, companies typically respond by
increasing prices and hiring more workers. This leads to a period
of low output and higher than expected employment and inflation,
which would normally warrant higher  interest rates .  Given that the inflation rate remains low and unemployment
remains persistently high, that would be counterproductive at
the moment. But the Fed shouldn’t expand its quantitative easing
program beyond what it has already announced or resort to more
exotic monetary policy -- such as buying municipal bonds on a
large scale -- in response to this natural disaster.  Fiscal policy, prudently applied, is far better suited for
such targeted stimulus. The federal government already has tools
it can use to jump-start ailing local economies and businesses,
including tax incentives to encourage reinvestment and low-
interest or forgivable loans to spur hiring and investment. Gap
financing, wage subsidies and retraining programs for small
businesses should also be priorities.  And given budgetary realities, private investment should be
part of any solution. One approach, tried with success in the
past, is for Congress to approve federal tax-exempt disaster
bonds to help states, cities and businesses deal with the
daunting costs.  Such bonds help finance public works without increasing
government debt, because a private entity -- often a consortium
of companies -- holds or backs the debt. They’re structured as
private-activity bonds, meaning they’re issued by a municipal
authority (such as the  Port Authority  of  New York  and  New
Jersey ) on behalf of a private entity working on a qualified
project (such as improvements to electrical facilities and
water-treatment plants).  Similar bonds were used in previous disaster-recovery
efforts, such as after  Hurricane Ike  in 2008. The drawback is
that they require congressional authorization -- at a time when
Congress seems unable or unwilling to do much of anything -- and
the issuance can take months or years. Putting in place a
predictable bond-issuance system that states and cities know
they will be able to rely on quickly in an emergency would be a
valuable service.  Private Power  Public-private partnerships are also especially useful in
economic disaster relief. These are generally agreements between
governments and companies to finance civic projects such as
airports and toll roads. A company builds, owns and operates a
new piece of infrastructure, such as the Chicago Skyway toll
bridge, and the government typically provides tax-exempt status
and makes lease or other payments. Twenty-four states have
undertaken public-private transportation projects,  according to 
the  Brookings Institution .  To make such partnerships ubiquitous will require that
states enact laws clarifying how they should work, including
procurement terms, and ensure the projects are transparent and
fair.  The federal government’s role in helping a region’s economy
recover from disaster is by definition limited. Sandy, for
example,  may have caused  more than $50 billion in damage and
could shave half a percentage point off U.S. growth for the
current quarter. Countless small businesses won’t be able to
survive.  That said, there’s a lot the government can do to make its
response more forceful and its policies more consistent.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 