-- Toyota Mulls Whether to Change Prius Look to Widen Appeal
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-11-05T21:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/toyota-mulls-whether-to-change-prius-look-to-widen-appeal.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , closing in on
record global sales of Prius models, is studying whether to keep
the hybrid line’s aerodynamic wedge-shape as the automaker
designs a next-generation car to boost demand.  “There’s an undercurrent among most people that they’re
ready for a new Prius look,” said Chris Hostetter, Toyota’s
U.S. group vice president for strategic planning, who’s working
with Toyota engineers on the redesign. “Maybe our architecture
has been a little bit similar for the last two generations.”  While the carmaker hasn’t yet selected a look from “a menu
to choose from” for the next Prius, “one of the avenues we’re
exploring right now is to evolve it, and the other is to really
evolve it,” Hostetter said in a phone interview last month,
without elaborating. A replacement for the main Prius hatchback
won’t go on sale for “a little more than a year,” he said.  Toyota net income for the quarter ended Sept. 30 climbed to
257.9 billion yen ($3.21 billion), compared with the 236.2
billion yen average of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Operating profit also beat estimates. The company
raised its profit forecast for the year ending March 2013,
saying in a statement that  net income  in the 12 months ending
March 2013 will probably reach a five-year high of 780 billion
yen, exceeding the previous 760 billion yen forecast.  The company’s American depositary receipts rose 4.6 percent
to $81.35 at the close in  New York , the largest increase in more
than three months. They’ve increased 23 percent this year.  Record Deliveries  Toyota’s push to broaden Prius’s appeal coincides with
record deliveries of gasoline-electric cars bearing that name
this year, and its top sales rankings in markets including  Japan 
and  California . Stricter U.S. fuel-economy rules and tougher
hybrid competition from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  are
also spurring Toyota, which has led the segment for 15 years.  Global Prius sales -- including the main hatchback, v
wagon, plug-in model and subcompact Prius c, sold in Japan as
the Aqua -- surged to 691,281 this year through September, 60
percent more than the total for last year, according to figures
provided by the company.  The previous Prius sales record was 509,399 units in 2010,
when Toyota offered only the hatchback.  “Up to now the shape they’ve had was perfect for that
product; it was distinctive and said, ‘This is a hybrid
vehicle,’” said  John Wolkonowicz , an independent analyst in
 Boston  who specializes in automotive history. “But it also
appealed to only a certain type of buyer. It’s time to move to a
broader market.”  The first Prius, initially sold in Japan in late 1997 and
three years later in the U.S., was more technical curiosity than
sales success. While the car’s nickel-metal hydride battery pack
and motor were exotic for a mass-market car at the time, the
appeal was dulled by an exterior design modified from Toyota’s
Yaris sedan.  Prius Surges  Not until the Toyota City, Japan-based company restyled
Prius in late 2003, giving it a raked hood and windshield that
flowed seamlessly into the roof line, did it begin to sell in
large volume.  In 2004, the first full year the second-generation car was
available, worldwide Prius sales jumped to 125,742, almost
triple the 43,162 delivered in 2003. Sales expanded through
2010, until Japan’s earthquake and tsunami in 2011 temporarily
slowed production of Prius models.  “I’m very envious of that shape,” said Tom Semple, a
veteran designer who led  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s U.S. automotive
studio until retiring in 2003 and began his career with General
Motors Corp. in 1967. “That’s the kind of thing I started out
drawing in the ’60s, but GM’s engineers would never do.”  The appeal is “beyond the triangular shape,” Semple said.
“It’s that you’ve got a windshield that’s integrated into a
shape that just keeps going.”  Fuel Economy  The shape also cut wind resistance drag, helping Prius
boost its fuel economy to 50 miles (80 kilometers) per gallon in
combined city and highway driving, still the highest rating in
the U.S. for any non-rechargeable auto.  The look was later mirrored by Honda with its revamped
Insight hybrid in 2009 and  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s plug-in
Chevrolet Volt sedan in 2010, Semple said.  “The second-generation Prius shape is one of the most
iconic of the past decade,” said Ed Kim, an industry analyst at
researcher AutoPacific Inc. in Tustin, California. “To move
away from that wedge shape is very significant.”  ‘Aerodynamic Shape’  Jim Lentz , Toyota’s U.S. sales chief, who began promoting
the creation of a line of Prius vehicles beginning in 2006, said
the car’s current profile remains the best option. It has been
one of the brand’s more innovative designs and has made the car
so recognizable that it attracts a range of buyers and has had
remarkable staying power, he said.  “That’s still the best aerodynamic shape,” he said in an
interview on Oct. 30. “Could there be some morphing of that?
Based on new aerodynamic trends, there could be.”  He added, without elaborating, that “my sense is, well
into the future, it will still be close to that iconic look.”  The next version of Prius has to retain a lead in fuel-
efficiency among mass-market vehicles as its appearance evolves,
Hostetter said. The car is also going to have better driving
“dynamics,” reflecting President  Akio Toyoda ’s directive that
the company build more exciting vehicles, he said.  “We are emboldened to make a much different, much better
Prius,” Hostetter said. “The consequences of that so far have
been, I would say, dramatic.”  Toyota is still reviewing clay-model prototypes for the
next Prius, Hostetter said. Along with a more “emotional”
exterior design, a revamped version of Toyota’s hybrid system is
being readied for the next-generation Prius, he said.  Hostetter and his team in the U.S. are working directly
with Satoshi Ogiso, Toyota’s chief engineer for the Prius line,
hybrid vehicles and plug-in hybrids.  New Platform  Hostetter declined to say whether Toyota would continue to
use nickel-based battery packs as the primary energy storage
system for Prius, or move the lineup to lithium-ion or another
battery chemistry.  To hold down production costs, Toyota is developing a new
“modular” platform to serve as the underpinnings for the next
Prius and other models, Hostetter said, without elaborating.  “Prius is really the launch of that whole new
architecture,” he said.  At the  Detroit auto show  in January, Toyota showed a plug-
in hybrid prototype, the NS4 sedan, that has elements of the new
platform, he said. Likewise, some concept vehicles being studied
for Prius share similarities with the NS4, he said.  “It was a study to show more emotional design,” Hostetter
said. “Some of the Prius clays we have right now, some of them
are more advanced than that. Some of them aren’t.”  Adding Vehicles  Sales growth for Prius models in the U.S. and Japan
accelerated with the creation this year of a “family” of
vehicles, and that may be expanded further, Hostetter said.  “We’re always working on new types of fuel-efficient
things, and whether they would be called a Prius or not is
always an interesting topic of discussion,” he said. “I
personally would like to see more vehicles in the Prius
lineup.”  That could even include the hydrogen fuel-cell sedan Toyota
plans to sell to retail customers in the U.S., Japan and other
markets by 2015, he said.  Toyota has said that by the end of the decade, Prius may
surpass Camry and Corolla to become the carmaker’s top-selling
vehicle line. A new look can help boost sales, Wolkonowicz said.  ‘Dweeb-Mobiles’  The design is “frankly a little too whimsical,” he said.  “I could call them ‘dweeb-mobiles’ -- a design that’s off-
putting to a lot of people,” he said. “The Prius could be
described in some ways as overly cute. I think it needs a little
snarl, a little muscle.”  As Toyota deliberates the future of Prius, competitors are
taking aim at gaining sales in different segments of the hybrid
market.  Ford sold 3,182 C-Max in the U.S. last month compared with
2,769 for the Prius v, the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker
said in a Nov. 2 statement. The full Prius line had sales of
16,774 for the month.  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is in Torrance, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  