-- Poulter Continues Ryder Cup Form With Victory at HSBC Champions
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-11-04T16:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/poulter-wins-hsbc-champions-2nd-world-golf-championship-title.html
Ian Poulter , who won all his games to
help Europe retain the Ryder Cup in September, had a closing
round of 7-under-par 65 yesterday at the HSBC Champions to
secure his second victory in a World Golf Championship event.  The 36-year-old Englishman finished on 21-under, two shots
ahead of Americans  Jason Dufner ,  Phil Mickelson  and Scott Piercy, and South Africa’s Ernie Els at the Mission Hills golf
club in Shenzhen, China.  “I definitely think it is a part-continuation of the Ryder
Cup,” Poulter told reporters. “It was a special day. I knew
there was a good round of golf in me out there on that course.”  There are four annual World Golf Championship events, with
Poulter previously winning the Accenture Match Play Championship
in 2010. The Cadillac Championship and Bridgestone Championship
are the other two.  Poulter now has 15 wins as a professional, including 12 on
the European Tour. He was without a victory since last year’s
Volvo World Match Play Championship.  “As well as I’ve played this year it would have been a
disappointment personally to have gone that year without
winning,” Poulter said.  Yesterday, he profited as overnight leaders  Lee Westwood  of
England and South Africa’s  Louis Oosthuizen  both only managed
par in their final rounds.  Westwood Inconsistent  Westwood, who shot a 61 in the third round, had an
inconsistent round yesterday with a double-bogey at the fifth
and three further bogeys on the back nine. Oosthuizen finished
in a tie with the Englishman for sixth.  Poulter had built a three-shot lead after 15 holes before a
bogey at the 17th and then a bunkered shot on the final hole,
but his closest challengers were unable to take advantage.  His round included eight birdies in addition to the late
bogey.  Just over a month ago, Poulter had a tournament-best four
points as Europe matched the biggest comeback in event history
to retain the Ryder Cup at Medinah Golf Club outside  Chicago .  Since then, he was fourth in last week’s BMW Masters, his
only subsequent European Tour event before the HSBC Champions.  Poulter collects a check for 921,376 euros ($1.18 million),
but said he had already spent that money last week.  “I’m not going to tell you what it is until it arrives and
I’ve got it home safe and sound, but yes, it was a vehicle, and
yes, it was very expensive,” Poulter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 