-- Resona Chairman Hosoya, Who Led Bank’s Revival, Dies at 67
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-11-05T05:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/resona-chairman-eiji-hosoya-dies-at-67-of-unspecified-illness.html
Resona Holdings Inc. (8308)  Chairman Eiji Hosoya, who spearheaded the Japanese bank’s revival after it was
bailed out by taxpayers nine years ago, has died. He was 67.  Hosoya died at his home in Tokyo on Nov. 4 following an
unspecified illness, the bank said on its website yesterday.  He joined Resona, now Japan’s fifth-biggest bank by market
value, in 2003 when the nation’s lenders were saddled with bad
loans after an  asset bubble burst  in the 1990s. Tokyo-based
Resona has posted profit in the past eight fiscal years by
focusing on retail customers after receiving a government
bailout of 1.96 trillion yen ($24 billion).  “He is the symbol of the bank’s revitalization,” said
Shinichiro Nakamura, an analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
“He was a pillar of strength, encouraging employees to try
harder even amid cost cuts and in difficult circumstances.”  Hosoya was brought into Resona after working on the
privatization of  East Japan Railway Co. (9020) , the country’s largest
railway. He joined  JR East ’s predecessor, the state-owned Japan
National Railways, in 1968 after graduating from the  University
of Tokyo , according to Resona’s website.  Japanese banks got into financial difficulty after property
prices collapsed in the early 1990s, reducing the value of
collateral for loans. Stalled economic growth and  deflation 
generated bad debts faster than banks could write them off.  Government Aid  Resona said in May 2003 a 838 billion yen loss reduced its
capital below required levels, forcing it to seek  government
aid . The company was formerly known as Daiwa  Bank Holdings Inc. (TBHS) ,
a lending group that was formed in December 2001 in a three-way
merger of Daiwa Bank Ltd., Kinki Osaka Bank Ltd. and Nara Bank
Ltd. Asahi Bank Ltd. joined the group in March 2002.  Taking the post at Resona wasn’t an easy decision, Hosoya
said after his appointment.  “I decided to accept the offer as I realized that
stabilizing the financial system is the highest priority for the
Japanese economy,” he said at a news briefing on May 30, 2003.  Resona raised 545 billion yen in January 2011 from an
equity offering to fund Hosoya’s proposed purchase of 1.3
trillion yen of preferred shares from the government by 2015.
The government still has 27 percent voting rights in Resona.  The  shares  fell 1.5 percent to 331 yen at 2:35 p.m. in
 Tokyo . The benchmark Topix Index lost 0.7 percent.  ‘Tough Negotiator’  Hiroya Masuda, 60, recalls meeting Hosoya when they worked
on the development of a local train line in Ibaraki prefecture
north of Tokyo 26 years ago.  “He was a workaholic and a tough negotiator,” Masuda, a
former internal affairs minister and governor of Iwate
prefecture in northern Japan, said in a telephone interview
today. “At Resona, he instilled an awareness that the banking
business is a hospitality industry.”  Resona raised its full-year profit forecast to 230 billion
yen last month on declining costs including bad-loan provisions.
The bank previously projected net income of 140 billion yen for
the year ending March.  Among Hosoya’s efforts to cut expenses, Resona sold its
headquarters building in Otemachi, Tokyo’s financial district,
in 2008 and moved to Kiba in the capital city’s eastern Koto
district two years later.  He also sought to increase the number of female managers at
the bank to narrow  Japan ’s gender gap. “Companies that don’t
give women leading roles will be left behind,” Hosoya said in
an interview last November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  