-- Romney’s Pennsylvania Stop Today Called ‘Desperate Ploy’
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-11-04T23:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/romney-s-pennsylvania-stop-today-called-desperate-ploy-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s top advisers
said Republican challenger  Mitt Romney ’s campaign stop in
Pennsylvania today is a “desperate ploy” in a state he can’t
win in the Nov. 6 election. A Republican aide insisted the
traditionally Democratic-leaning state is in play.  Both Obama and Romney conducted eleventh-hour searches for
votes as a new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll shows the
nationwide race is still a dead heat. Democrat Obama’s lead over
Romney among likely voters is within the poll’s 2.5 percentage
point error margin, the Journal said.  Romney planned an early-evening stop in Pennsylvania, where
a new Franklin & Marshall College poll showed that Obama’s lead
has been cut to within the survey’s margin of error.  White House senior adviser  David Plouffe  said Romney’s plan
to hold a rally in Morrisville, Pennsylvania, plus plans for the
candidate or surrogates to visit  Virginia  and  North Carolina ,
show “they are definitely in a weak position heading into
election day.”  “This is a desperate ploy at the end of the campaign,”
Plouffe said on ABC’s “This Week.” Romney plans to visit
 Florida  and Virginia because “he’s at risk of losing those
states,” Plouffe said.  Fertile Ground  Pennsylvania is “very fertile ground for us,” Romney’s
political director,  Rich Beeson , said on the “Fox News Sunday”
program. “Campaigning in states we haven’t won since 1988”
isn’t “exactly” an act of “desperation,” he said. “It looks
like the map is starting to expand drastically in our favor.”  Both Plouffe and  David Axelrod , Obama’s top political
adviser, argued that Romney’s schedule in the final days of the
campaign showed he is trying to find electoral votes in new
places because he knows he can’t win  Ohio , which has 18
electoral votes.  Romney’s campaign today was breaking away from the nine
competitive states that have driven the candidates travel
schedules for months. In addition to Romney’s rally in
Morrisville, vice- presidential running mate  Paul Ryan  headed to
 Minnesota .  With polls showing both Ohio and  Iowa  leaning towards
Obama, the Republican ticket is seeking alternate pathways to
capture the 270 electoral votes needed to win the election.  ‘Deep Trouble’  Romney’s itinerary shows he and his advisers “understand
they are in deep trouble,” Axelrod said on the “Fox News
Sunday” broadcast. “They have tried to expand the map because
they know in states like Ohio” that “they are behind and they
are not catching up.”  Senator  Rob Portman  of Ohio, one of Romney’s leading
surrogates on the campaign trail, said on CNN’s “ State of the
Union ” it would be difficult for the Republican to win the
White House without Ohio. “I wouldn’t want to risk it,” he
said.  No Republican has ever won the presidency without carrying
Ohio. A Columbus Dispatch poll showed that Obama’s 50-48 percent
lead over Romney in Ohio was within the mail survey’s 2.2
percentage point error margin among 1,501 likely voters.  An NBC/Wall Street Journal poll released yesterday showed
Obama led Romney 51 percent to 45 percent in the state, outside
the survey’s 3.1 percentage point margin of error. In a Pew
Research Center poll released today, Obama led Romney 48 percent
to 45 percent in an Oct. 31-Nov. 3 survey. An Oct. 24-28 survey
by Pew, conducted before Sandy hit the Northeast, showed the
race was deadlocked at 47 percent apiece.  Showing Weakness  Romney’s trips to Virginia and Florida also show weakness
because they “would assume by now they would have secured”
victories there, Axelrod said.  Obama is “very competitive in Florida” and, “if they
were comfortable in Florida, they wouldn’t be spending as much
time and money down there as they are,” Axelrod said. He and
Beeson both predicted a close race in Virginia for that state’s
13 electoral votes. Florida has 29 electoral votes.  Virginia is “going to come down to the very end,” Beeson
said.  Obama campaigned in  New Hampshire  where a WMUR Granite
State Poll showed the race for the state’s four electoral votes
was tied at 47 percent among likely voters. The survey was taken
Oct. 31 to Nov. 2.  The president told supporters in Concord, New Hampshire,
that the election is “not just about policy. It’s also about
who do you trust.” He said Romney has shifted positions on
issues so much that he can’t be trusted. “You know where I
stand,” he said. “You know what I believe.”  A  Pennsylvania  poll showed the race tightening for the
state’s 20 electoral votes.  Pennsylvania Poll  Obama led Romney in the Franklin & Marshall College Poll of
registered Pennsylvania voters 48 percent to 44 percent. The
survey, conducted Oct. 23-28, had a margin of error of 4.2
percentage points. The president’s lead was cut from 11 points
in September.  A new poll in Iowa, another swing state, shows Obama leads
Romney 47 percent to 42 percent among likely voters. The  Des
Moines  Register’s Iowa Poll of 800 likely voters conducted Oct.
30 through Nov. 2 has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5
percentage points.  Campaigning there this morning, Romney rallied thousands of
Iowa supporters with promises that he would work with Democrats
in  Washington  to change the country’s direction.  “You reach across the street to your neighbor with a yard
sign,” Romney told several thousand voters in Des Moines. “And
I’ll reach across the aisle to the people from the other
party.”  The president was headed to Florida, where Democrats said
they filed suit to force Republican Governor  Rick Scott  to
extend early voting because of record turnout in  South Florida ,
a Democratic stronghold.  “We encourage anyone who is in line to vote to stay in
line,” Rod Smith, the Florida Democratic Party chairman, said
in a statement. “As long as you are in line when the polls
close, you can still vote.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Des Moines or  llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  