-- Rovio’s ‘Angry Birds’ Reach Wallets in Prepaid Visa Deal
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-11-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/rovio-s-angry-birds-reach-wallets-in-prepaid-visa-deal.html
“Angry Birds,” the video game
downloaded more than 1 billion times, is finding its way into
consumers’ wallets.  Rovio Entertainment Oy, the game’s Finnish creator,
licensed out the scowling fowl for use on prepaid Visa cards in
a deal with California-based issuer Kaiku Finance LLC, the
closely held companies said yesterday in a statement without
disclosing terms. Four designs of the Kaiku Angry Birds Visa
Prepaid Card will begin selling online early next year.  The deal marks Helsinki-based Rovio’s latest effort to
capitalize on its successful mobile-game business ahead of a
possible initial public offering next year. The company has more
than 200 agreements for clothing, footwear, books, film and
personal finance. On Nov. 8, the company plans to offer an
“Angry Birds Star Wars” game in partnership with LucasFilm
Ltd., according to the Rovio website.  The prepaid card business is becoming a battleground for
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Bank of America Corp. ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
and others looking to profit from fees on the fast-growing
service. Consumers loaded $57 billion onto prepaid cards in
2011, a sum that’s expected to grow 42 percent annually through
2014, according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
which cited Mercator Advisory Group.  More consumers are turning to prepaid cards to avoid
checking-account fees that have surged as the Dodd-Frank Act
curbs banks’ revenue from other sources, including debit
transactions and overdraft charges.  Prepaid Fees  Kaiku, based in Thousand Oaks,  California , offers prepaid
cards issued by Westlake Village-based First California Bank,
part of  First California Financial Group. (FCAL)  Customers pay $1.95 a
month for fee-free purchasing online and at stores, along with
withdrawals at AllPoint Network’s 50,000 ATM machines
nationwide. They pay $2.95 to $4.95 to reload cards at
participating stores, with free reload options also available.  The Angry Birds cards will come in four designs: The Red
Bird, The Yellow Bird, Bomb Bird and the Bad Piggies. They will
be sold only on Kaiku’s website.  Rovio is preparing for an initial public offering as early
as next year, Henri Holm, senior vice president for Asia, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview in April.  Last year, it generated $106.3 million in revenue and $67.6
million in profit before tax on sales of the game and
merchandise, according to a May  statement  on its website. About
30 percent of its revenue came from merchandise and licensing.  Rovio, established in 2003, found a hit six years later
with “Angry Birds,” in which players use a virtual slingshot
to fling birds at structures populated by green pigs. The game
and its follow-ons have had more than 1 billion free and paid
downloads since 2009, according to the statement.|  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  