-- Services Probably Sustained Expansion: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-11-04T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/services-probably-sustained-expansion-u-s-economy-preview.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably kept growing in October, lifted by gains in  consumer
spending  that are helping bolster the expansion, economists said
before a report this week.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
 index , which covers almost 90 percent of the economy, was at
54.5 last month, little changed from 55.1 in September,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey before
tomorrow’s figures. Readings above 50 signal growth. Another
report this week may show the trade  deficit  widened in September
as exports cooled.  Retailers  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  may keep benefitting
from a pickup in hiring and consumer sentiment heading into the
 holiday shopping season , while homebuilders enjoy a rebound in
demand. Meanwhile, manufacturing is being restrained by a global
slowdown and a lack of clarity on U.S. fiscal policy that is
preventing the economy from strengthening further.  “The non-manufacturing part of the economy, which is the
bulk of the economy, is a lot less weak,” said  Jim O’Sullivan ,
chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics LLC in
Valhalla,  New York . “The manufacturing sector is more exposed
to the weakening in foreign growth and exports. When you add it
all up it’s still pretty sluggish growth.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s services report will be the
last piece of economic data before the Nov. 6 election, when
voters decide between giving President  Barack Obama  another four
years and changing course with Republican challenger  Mitt
Romney .  Labor Market  A Labor Department report last week showed the job market
is strengthening. Employers added 171,000 workers to payrolls in
October, more than the most optimistic projection in a Bloomberg
survey, after a 148,000 gain in September. The figures showed
retail hiring picked up at the same time purchases firmed.  Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain,
said its October same-store sales increased 4.1 percent, topping
the 4 percent average estimate of analysts surveyed by
researcher Retail Metrics Inc. Kohl’s said its purchases climbed
3.3 percent.  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Swampscott, Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 5 percent,
excluding drugstores, beating estimates for a 4.6 percent gain,
the firm said in a Nov. 1 report. That followed a 3.9 percent
increase in September.  Coffee Sales  Starbucks, the world’s largest coffee-shop operator,
reported record fourth-quarter revenue, while sales at stores
open at least 13 months in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Latin America 
advanced 7 percent.  “If you look at the last few years, there is no question
that the economic environment in the U.S. has been very
challenging, fragile, and depending on the region, very
difficult at times,” Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz 
said on a Nov. 1 earnings call. Still, “we’re confident that we
can continue to navigate through changes in the economy and
we’ve done it now year-over-year.”  Homebuilding is another bright spot for the economy.
Americans  bought  new homes in September at the fastest pace in
two years, a sign the industry at the heart of the last
recession is bouncing back, according to Commerce Department
figures.  Population growth and mortgage rates pushed to record lows
by Federal Reserve purchases of housing debt are generating
sales for builders like Toll Brothers Inc. Housing  starts  in
September jumped 15 percent to the fastest pace since July 2008,
according to the Commerce Department.  Investors also are upbeat about prospects. The Standard &
Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index advanced 81.7 percent
this year, outpacing a 12.5 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 .  U.S. Manufacturing  The ISM’s manufacturing  index , released Nov. 1, showed
factories are stabilizing. The gauge rose to a five-month high
of 51.7 in October from 51.5 as orders and production picked up.
A stagnant  Europe  and slowing growth in  China  has led to weaker
demand for American products, which had been a source of
strength for the  U.S. economy .  The U.S.  trade  deficit probably widened in September to $45
billion from $44.2 billion in August, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The Commerce Department is
scheduled to release the data Nov. 8.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  