-- Treasuries Advance, Euro Slips as U.S. Stocks Climb
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-11-05T21:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/u-s-equity-index-futures-slip-while-gold-snaps-two-day-decline.html
Treasuries rose and the euro traded
at an almost two-month low as the U.S. prepared to vote for
president and concern grew Greece will fail to win a bailout.
U.S. stocks closed higher after fluctuating during the day.  Treasury 10-year notes gained for a second day, with the
yield dropping three basis points to 1.68 percent as of 4 p.m.
in New York. The euro slid 0.4 percent to $1.2789, the lowest
since Sept. 11. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.2
percent to 1,417.26 after losing 0.4 percent. Germany’s two-year
 yield  reached minus 0.014 percent, negative for the first time
since Sept. 6. Oil rebounded from a four-month low.  Trading volume for  S&P 500  companies was 19 percent below
the 30-day average before U.S. voters decide between giving
President  Barack Obama  another four years in office or replacing
him with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney . U.S.  service
industries  kept growing last month, a report showed. Greek Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras will this week battle to win political
support for measures needed to obtain aid.  “People are more like holding their breath and turning
blue,” said Madelynn Matlock, who helps oversee about $14.7
billion at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati. She spoke in
a phone interview. “There’s concern about  Europe . The market is
looking like there’s some worry in Greece. There’s also the
election in the U.S. That keeps investors on the sidelines.”  U.S. Election  Two-year U.S. note yields decreased one basis point to 0.27
percent and rates on 30-year debt declined four points to 2.87
percent. Voters face unprecedented debt levels and a round of
tax increases and spending cuts, which threaten to slow the
economy.  Gauges of commodity, energy and technology companies rose
at least 0.6 percent to lead gains among the 10 main industry
groups in the S&P 500, while utilities, phone companies and
financial firms retreated the most.   Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rose 1.4 percent after selling 3 million units
of its iPad mini and fourth-generation iPad during the debut
weekend, saying demand for the smaller version of its tablet
outstripped supply. KBW Inc. advanced 7.2 percent as Stifel
Financial Corp. agreed to buy the boutique investment bank in a
cash-and-stock transaction valued at $575 million.  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)  declined 6.4 percent following earnings that
disappointed investors as the company lost more video
subscribers than analysts projected.  Service Industries  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S. non-
manufacturing businesses, which covers about 90 percent of the
economy, fell to 54.2 in October from the prior month’s 55.1.
The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected 54.5. Estimates ranged from 53 to 57. Readings above
50 signal expansion. The ISM services survey covers industries
ranging from utilities and retailing to housing, health care and
finance.  Swings in U.S. stocks have shrunk to the lowest level in
six years, an indicator that has most often coincided with
incumbent parties keeping the presidency in data going back to
1900. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  has gained or lost 0.54
percent a day on average this year, the smallest fluctuations
for an election year since  George W. Bush  defeated  John Kerry  in
2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tight Race  Obama led Romney 48 percent to 45 percent in an Oct. 31-
Nov. 3 national poll conducted by the Pew Research Center, a
survey that was deadlocked at 47 percent each a week ago. Polls
conducted by NBC News with the Wall Street Journal and ABC News
with the Washington Post also showed movement for the president
in recent days, albeit a 1 percentage point edge for Obama that
is inside the margin of error for both surveys.  “President Obama winning a second term is viewed as equity
negative, bond positive because it implies higher taxes and
increased health-care spending,” Kit Juckes, head of foreign-
exchange research at Societe Generale SA in London, said in a
research note. “Romney winning cuts taxes and spending, and
helps Wall St.”  Four shares fell for every one that gained in the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, which slipped 0.6 percent. HSBC Holdings Plc
slid 1.3 percent as Europe’s largest bank by market value made
an $800 million provision for penalties from a U.S. money-
laundering investigation.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  advanced 6
percent as the region’s biggest discount airline increased
fiscal second-quarter profit 23 percent and raised its forecast
for full-year earnings.  Bunds Rise  German 10-year bunds rose for a fourth day, pushing the
yield down two basis points to 1.43 percent, as investors sought
Europe’s safest government securities.  As Greece seeks a 31 billion-euro ($40 billion) financing
tranche this month, Samaras is facing down a revolt in his
three-party coalition. The leader of the Democratic Left
yesterday reiterated his party’s opposition to changes in the
labor law demanded by international creditors. While no date has
been set for a vote on that bill, it may come as soon as Nov. 7.
The budget vote is slated for Nov. 11.  Spain’s bonds fell, pushing the 10-year  yield  up nine basis
points to 5.75 percent before the country sells debt maturing
from 2015 to 2032 on Nov. 8.  Turkish two-year bond yields fell to a record 6.80 percent
after  Fitch Ratings  raised the debt by one level to BBB-, the
nation’s first investment-grade ranking since 1994, citing an
easing in economic risk and lower  government borrowing . The ISE
National 100 Index rallied 1.8 percent to the highest level on
record.  Currencies  The euro weakened against all 16 major peers, sliding 0.6
percent to 102.67 yen. Japan’s currency strengthened 0.2 percent
to 80.27 per dollar.  The dollar strengthened against 10 of 16 major peers. The
U.S. currency will gain if Romney pulls off a “big surprise”
and wins the presidential election tomorrow, or if the outcome
remains uncertain in an echo of 2000, according to Citigroup
Inc.  A victory by Obama is more expected by the market so a
Romney upset would have a bigger impact, Steven Englander, head
of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York,
wrote to clients today. A Romney presidency would see Treasury
yields rise and the yen weaken because the yield premium
investors receive for buying dollar-based assets versus those
denominated in the Japanese currency would increase.  ECB Decision  Investors are also awaiting a Nov. 8 rate decision by the
 European Central Bank , as economists predict policy makers will
keep the benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75 percent.  China’s purchasing managers’ index rose to 55.5 in October
from 53.7 the previous month, the National Bureau of Statistics
and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on Nov. 3.
A separate services index released today by HSBC and  Markit
Economics  fell to 53.5 in October from 54.3 the previous month.  President  Hu Jintao  is set to hand over leadership of the
Communist Party to Vice President  Xi Jinping  at a party congress
that begins Nov. 8.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities was up 0.7 percent.
Oil rose 0.9 percent to $85.65 a barrel, after earlier reaching
$84.34, the weakest since July 12.  Hedge funds  cut bullish wagers on commodities by the most
since June as prices retreated to a three-month low. Money
managers reduced combined net-long positions across 18 U.S.
futures and options in the week ended Oct. 30 by 11 percent to
the lowest since July 10, Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell for the first time in
five days, declining 0.4 percent. South Korea’s KOSPI and Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng retreated. The Russian market is closed for a
public holiday today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Verdonck in London at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  