-- Lufthansa to Deepen Turkish Tie-Up as Rivals Look East
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-11-05T18:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/lufthansa-may-try-to-deepen-turkish-tie-up-as-rivals-look-east.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  may seek deeper
ties with Turkish Airlines to thwart competition from Gulf
rivals and match European peers that already have Mideast
partnerships, analysts said after Turkish media reports of talks
on a merger.  A full combination could be complicated by European Union
rules on ownership and wouldn’t be logical for rapidly growing
 Turk Hava Yollari (THYAO) , as the Turkish carrier is formally known,
said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo & Cie in Paris.  Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said he favored
a tighter relationship between the Star Alliance members, state-
owned Anatolia news agency reported Nov. 3. The two companies
may secure a deeper partnership by buying shares in one another,
Financial Times Deutschland reported today.  “A merger would be nonsense for Turkish right now,” said
Derocles, who has a “neutral” rating on Lufthansa,  Europe ’s
No. 2 airline. “A strong code-share makes strategic sense.”
Code-sharing allows airlines to sell tickets on each other’s
flights on chosen routes.  Turkish Airlines, a Star Alliance member since 2008,
already attaches its code to Lufthansa services to North
America, while the German carrier adds its flight number to THY
services to the Middle East. Further scope for cooperation might
include operations to Asia.  Competitors’ Deals  Air France-KLM Group last month agreed to code-share with
Abu Dhabi’s Etihad Airways, while Qatar Airways Ltd. aims to
join  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) ’s Oneworld
alliance within 18 months.  Turkish Airlines -- which is  49 percent owned by the
Turkish state , according to data compiled by Bloomberg -- gained
2.6 percent to 4.29 lira. The stock has  doubled  this year,
valuing the Istanbul-based company at 5.1 billion liras ($2.9
billion).  Cologne-based Lufthansa fell 0.9 percent to 12.19 euros. It
has gained  33 percent  this year for a value of 5.6 billion euros
($7.2 billion).  German Chancellor Angela Merkel suggested bringing
Lufthansa and Turkish closer together when Erdogan visited
 Germany  last week, according to Anatolia.  “During our Germany trip, Merkel offered me this: ‘Let’s
get Lufthansa and Turkish Airlines into joint operation,” the
premier was quoted as saying by Anatolia. “I said: ‘OK. This is
already among our projects and God willing our Turkish Airlines
and Lufthansa can take a joint step like that.’”  Smaller Acquisitions  Speaking in Turkish, Erdogan used the word “isletmecilik”
to refer to the joint project, which can be translated as either
“management” or “operation.”  Two Turkish newspapers,
Haberturk and Sabah, reported yesterday that a merger between
the two airlines is under consideration.  Unlike its competitors, Lufthansa has focused on buying
smaller carriers in the past rather than pursuing a merger with
a peer. While British Airways merged with Iberia to form IAG in
January last year and Air France fused with the Netherlands’ KLM
in 2004, Lufthansa has added Swiss International Airlines,
Austrian Airlines and BMI -- which it sold this year -- plus
stakes in Brussels Airlines and  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)   The 86-year-old company spent $7.29 billion on acquisitions
in the past decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with $7.26 billion at Air France, the region’s
biggest carrier, and $3.6 billion at IAG, the No. 3.  ‘Constant Dialogue’  “They are perceived to be somewhat vulnerable to Middle
Eastern traffic flows,”  Stephen Furlong , an analyst at Dublin-
based Davy Holdings, said yesterday. “A deal with Turkish would
take a lot of the negatives against Lufthansa off the table.”  Lufthansa and Turkish are discussing cross shareholdings as
part of a deeper cooperation, including additional joint
ventures, Financial Times Deutschland reported, citing
unidentified company officials. A quick resolution of the talks
isn’t expected, the paper said.  Lufthansa reiterated its stance that it is in “constant
dialogue” with Turkish Airlines to improve and intensify co-
operation, Frankfurt-based spokesman Christoph Meier said today.  Turkish Air Chief Executive Officer Temel Kotil said in an
e-mail yesterday: “We have a cooperation standing for years
with Lufthansa, and we are working on ways to find how we can
better serve our passengers, and we are in constant
communication on how to develop these.”  Falling Profits  Oneworld’s welcoming of Qatar to the alliance came one
month after  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  said it would quit a 17-year
partnership with British Airways in favor of an accord with
Dubai-based Emirates, the biggest Middle Eastern carrier.  Qantas and Emirates, the largest and third-largest by
passenger numbers on routes from  Australia , intend to coordinate
pricing, sales and scheduling. They will also align frequent-
flier programs, allowing passengers to earn points on both
carriers’ flights. Neither company will buy equity in the other
under the deal, which requires regulatory approval.  The Oct. 8 agreement between Etihad, the Gulf No. 3, and
Air France is intended to be the first phase of a “much larger
strategic partnership,” Etihad said at the time.  Qatar CEO Akbar Al Baker said Oct. 18 that the third-
largest Gulf carrier would have considered joining Lufthansa’s
Star Alliance over Oneworld if the German company hadn’t proven
so hostile to the growth of Mideast airlines. “They have lost
in this very lucrative alliance chess game,” he added.  Lufthansa CEO Christoph Franz said March 15 that he was
“very concerned” about the ascent of Gulf carriers. “They are
serving the strategic goals of the Gulf states, namely the
displacement of European air transport hubs into the Middle
East, 40 kilometers from the Iranian border,” he said. “We
must stand up for our European interests more forcefully.”  Turkish Airlines and Lufthansa both have access to large
home populations, differentiating them from Gulf carriers that
largely depend on passengers who switch planes at their hubs
while en route between other countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  