-- Lufthansa Says All Is Possible After Turkish Merger Talks Report
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-11-04T14:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/lufthansa-says-all-is-possible-after-turkish-merger-talks-report.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  said
“everything that is in the interest of our customers” is
possible after newspaper Haberturk reported the German carrier
is in talks with  Turkish Airlines (THYAO)  over a possible merger.  Lufthansa, Europe’s second-biggest airline, is in
“constant dialogue” with Turk Hava Yollari, as it is formally
known, to improve and intensify the two companies’ co-operation,
Klaus Walther, a Frankfurt-based Lufthansa spokesman, said by
telephone, declining to confirm or deny whether a merger was a
possibility.  Discussions started after Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  raised the
topic of cooperation by the carriers in Germany last week,
Haberturk said today, without saying where it got the
information. Sabah, another Turkish newspaper, also reported
today a merger is being talked about. Neither report said where
it got the information.  “During our Germany trip, Merkel offered me this: ‘Let’s
get Lufthansa and Turkish Airlines into joint operation,”
Erdogan was quoted as saying by the state-owned Anatolia news
agency. “I said: ‘Okay. This is already among our projects and
God willing our Turkish Airlines and Lufthansa can take a joint
step like that.’”  Speaking in Turkish, Erdogan used the word “isletmecilik”
to refer to the joint project, which can be translated as either
“management” or “operation.”  Star Alliance  Turkish Airlines Chief Executive Officer Temel Kotil said
the carriers have had a joint business in Antalya since 1989,
called SunExpress, and are both members of the  Star Alliance .  “We have had a cooperation in place for years and we are
working on ways to find how we can better serve our
passengers,” Kotil said in an emailed reply to questions from
Bloomberg News. “We are in constant communication on how to
develop these.”  Last month, Lufthansa’s biggest European competitors both
sealed arrangements to secure closer co-operation with Middle
Eastern carriers.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group agreed to start code-
sharing with Etihad Airways, the third-biggest Persian Gulf
airline, while Qatar Airways Ltd. said it would join
 International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) ’s Oneworld alliance
within 18 months.  Qatar Chief Executive Officer Akbar Al Baker said he chose
Oneworld over Lufthansa’s Star Alliance since the German airline
was so hostile to the growth of Gulf carriers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  