-- United Begins First 787 Dreamliner Flight by U.S. Airline
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-11-04T17:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/united-begins-first-787-dreamliner-flight-by-u-s-airline.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
ushered in a new era for composite-plastic aircraft with its
inaugural flight using  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner jet.  Flight 1116 to Chicago from Houston was the first by a U.S.
airline with the plane whose fuselage is made chiefly from
composite materials instead of the traditional aluminum, and
Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smisek  hailed it as “the best
airplane in the world.”  “It doesn’t get any cooler than this,” Smisek said today
as he posed for photos and signed autographs at Houston’s George
Bush Intercontinental Airport before a takeoff that industry
data tracker FlightAware reported at 8:29 a.m.  New York  time.
“We’ve been waiting a long time for this.”  The Dreamliner symbolically punctuates the 2010 merger
creating the world’s largest carrier from former United parent
UAL Corp. and Continental Airlines Inc. Continental committed in
2004 to buy the first U.S. 787s, and the new United is due to
get 48 more of the jets under purchases by its predecessors,
following the delivery of the second plane on Oct. 31. Smisek
said he expects two more jets this month.  United will benefit from the plane’s 20 percent fuel
savings compared with wide-body models of similar size. It also
can promote the passenger comforts that Boeing says set the jet
apart from other aircraft, such as dimmable windows and LED
lighting that changes in different phases of flight.  Champagne Toast  The features were much in display as the Dreamliner cruised
north to  Chicago . Windows were dimmed to a hazy blue to block
bright sunlight, the bird-like wings flexed as the 787 climbed
and encountered brief turbulence.  Smisek kicked off the on-board party with a toast and
passengers thronged galleys and aisles, praising the aircraft’s
quiet engines and lavatories, which feature toilets that flush
automatically.  “I like the aircraft a lot,” said Mark Schiff, a Chicago
lawyer who shifted plans to catch the early morning flight when
he discovered it would be on the Dreamliner. “It’s a much nicer
atmosphere.”  With the composite construction, the 787’s interior can
withstand higher humidity, allowing cabin pressurization that
puts more oxygen in the air to minimize traveler fatigue and
headache. As configured for United, the twin-engine jet seats
219 people.  The one complaint on the flight was the lack of Wi-Fi on
the most technologically advanced commercial jet in the world.
Smisek said in an interview that Boeing was working with federal
aviation authorities to certify communications equipment to
maintain broadband on a composite aircraft, a process that could
take until 2014 to complete.  ‘Amazing Airplane’  Smisek said the Dreamliner is crucial to his effort to make
United into a standard-bearer for the industry. Flight 1116
arrived at Chicago O’Hare International Airport at 10:35 a.m.
New York time, and was saluted with water cannons as it taxied
to gate C-20.  “We are the world’s largest airline, but we don’t care
about that,” he said. “We want to become the world’s leading
airline.”  Boeing’s struggles with the new materials and production
techniques contributed to delays of more than 3 1/2 years in the
Dreamliner’s commercial debut, which came in 2011 for  All Nippon
Airways Co. (9202)  United received its initial plane in September, and
the second one was several days late.  The 787’s sleek design and amenities drew aviation buffs
from around the world to Houston for Flight 1116. Among those on
hand was  Thomas Lee , 60, who said he was on the first flights of
Boeing’s 747 jumbo jet, the Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo and All
Nippon’s Dreamliner.  “It’s an amazing airplane,” he said. “I simply had to be
here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson on United Flight via 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  