-- Zimbabwe Biti Gives Banks Including Barclays Ultimatum
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2012-11-05T08:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-04/zimbabwe-biti-gives-banks-including-barclays-ultimatum.html
Zimbabwean Finance Minister  Tendai Biti  said lenders including units of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  have a last chance to support the central bank’s
Treasury bill sales or they will be compelled to buy negotiable
certificates of deposit.  The Harare-based  Reserve Bank  of Zimbabwe will on Nov. 6
offer $30 million worth of 91-day Treasury bills after after two
failed offerings and one partially successful sale last month.
The sales are the first since 2008, shortly before the country
abandoned its currency in favor of the dollar in a bid to curb
an inflation rate that had risen to 500 billion percent,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “I am giving the banks sector the last chance to fully
support the Treasury bills,” Biti, 46, said in a Nov. 3
interview in the northwestern resort town of Victoria Falls.
“If they don’t support it, I will issue NCDs and that’s it.”  Biti and the central bank are trying to kick-start the
country’s capital markets after a decade-long recession ended in
2009 after the 15-nation Southern African Democratic Community
negotiated a settlement that ended a political dispute. A
coalition government between President  Robert Mugabe ’s Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front and the Movement for
Democratic Change of Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai  was then
formed.  On Oct. 26, the central bank offered $15 million of the
securities of which $9.9 million were sold at an average yield
of 8.51 percent. The bank rejected all bids at attempted sales
on Oct. 4 and Oct. 24.  Barclays, Nedbank  The plan to restart the bill sales was announced in July by
Gideon Gono, the central bank governor. Zimbabwe lacks a
benchmark  interest rate . The weighted average lending rate for
private banks ranged from 14 percent to 20 percent in the four
months through July 31, Gono said in a  midyear monetary policy
statement .  Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Ltd.  is the biggest lender by
market value on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange with a
capitalization of $62 million while units of London-based
Standard Chartered as well as  Standard Bank (SBK)  Group Ltd. and
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , both based in Johannesburg, operate in the
country.  CBZ Holdings Ltd. (CBZ)  is the biggest locally owned bank.  Biti is also in negotiations to secure funding to
recapitalize the country’s banks and plans further regulation of
the industry.  Stress Tests  In September, Global  Emerging Markets , a $3.4 billion
 investment company  with offices in London and New York, said it
had proposed setting up a $1 billion fund in a venture with the
 finance ministry  to fund banks, especially the smaller, locally
owned lenders.  “There are discussions with parties, but it’s not anywhere
near the $1 billion,” Biti said. “I can’t tell you the figure
but, what I can say is that there are various negotiations
taking place.”  Alongside any recapitalization, the Finance Ministry plans
to appoint a banking ombudsman.  “We have come up with comprehensive amendments to the
banking sector,” he said. “We are introducing a banking
ombudsman to ensure that the consumer is protected and the
amendments will also  ensure mandatory stress tests. It’s a
plethora of amendments that are coming.”  Biti is also in talks with South Africa’s Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  in a bid to secure funding to help accelerate the
country’s economic recovery.  No Leadership  “The South African government is firmly committed to
assist us. I can’t put a figure on how much they would give
us,” Biti said. “I spoke to Pravin Gordhan about two days ago
and I am optimistic it would come through.”  On Nov. 2, Biti cut his forecast for Zimbabwe’s economic
growth this year to 4 percent from an earlier estimate of 5.6
percent, citing a smaller-than-expected crop harvest.  Zimbabwe’s recession was triggered by the start of a
program of seizing of white-owned commercial farms in 2000. That
slashed exports of crops including tobacco and roses and turned
the country into a corn importer. A new program compelling
mining companies to cede 51 percent of their assets to black
Zimbabweans has hindered investment in the world’s second-
biggest platinum reserves.  “There are no signs that we are providing sufficient
leadership,” Biti said. “You can’t continue doing things over
and over again. There has to be a paradigm shift or else we will
continue limping.”  Government revenue won’t be able to meet annual budget
requirements of $3.4 billion to $3.8 billion, he said.  ‘There is so much demand against the state and its not
possible to meet the demands,’’ he said. The economy is a crumb
against developmental needs of the country.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  