-- AB InBev Profit Growth Tops Expectations on Better Brazil
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-07-31T10:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ab-inbev-profit-growth-tops-expectations-on-higher-priced-beers.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s
biggest brewer, rose the most in more than three years after
second- quarter  profit growth topped estimates as it improved
sales in  Brazil  and sold higher-priced beers in the U.S.  So-called organic normalized earnings before interest,
taxation, amortization and depreciation rose 5.8 percent, the
Leuven, Belgium-based brewer of Budweiser said today. That
compares with the median estimate of 10  analysts  for a 3.7
percent increase. The measure excludes one-time items and the
effects of acquisitions and currency fluctuations. AB InBev’s
normalized Ebitda totalled $3.9 billion.  Profitability improved in  North America  as drinkers
splashed out on more high-end beers such as  Stella Artois  and
Goose Island and as the company extended production of its Bud
Light Lime Lime-a-Rita in three breweries to help limit
distribution expenses. Beer volume in Brazil, the company’s
second-biggest market, dropped 0.4 percent, improving from the
first quarter’s 8.2 percent plunge.  “The volumes were much better than people had expected in
the Brazil beer, and there was good margin expansion in the
U.S.,”  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in
 London , said today. The brewer also benefited from some one-time
factors including lower food inflation in Brazil and the FIFA
Confederations Cup soccer tournament in June, he said.  “It’s a
good set of numbers and the market’s worst fears weren’t
realized.”  Stock Performance  Shares of AB InBev, which this year shelled out $20.1
billion to buy the rest of Mexican brewer Grupo Modelo SAB,
advanced as much as 7.9 percent, the biggest intraday gain since
May 10, 2010. The stock traded up 7.8 percent at 72.95 euros in
Brussels at 12:22 p.m., giving the company a market value of 117
billion euros ($155 billion.)  AB InBev sales advanced 3.9 percent on an organic basis,
boosted by sales of higher-priced drinks. Analysts had
anticipated growth of 3.7 percent. The company estimated it lost
40 basis points of market share in the U.S. as shoppers shifted
away from its lower-priced beers. AB InBev has been aiming to
sell more expensive beer to support its target of increasing
revenue per hectoliter ahead of inflation and to offset a
projected “mid single-digit” increase in the cost of sales.  Brazil Volume  The volume of AB InBev’s own beer sold declined less than
anticipated as sales in the U.S. and Brazil fell at a slower
pace than analysts had expected, with North American organic
volume sliding 1.9 percent, and volume in the region AB InBev
calls Latin America North 0.5 percent lower. The company
repeated its outlook that industry volume in Brazil will be
unchanged or drop by a percentage in the low single digits this
year amid political unrest in the nation.  Today’s report may lead to a “reconsideration about the
company’s medium-term potential in Brazil,” Philip Morrisey, an
analyst at Berenberg Bank in London, said today. “They were
more positive about the second half, and 2014 may also benefit
from the soccer  World Cup  and potential macro improvements.”  AB InBev raised its guidance for net capital expenditure
for this year to about $3.9 billion from a previous target of
about $3.7 billion, due to the addition of  Mexico  in the
estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  