-- Abortion Rule on Hospital Access Blocked in North Dakota
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-07-31T21:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/abortion-rule-on-hospital-access-blocked-in-north-dakota.html
A North Dakota law requiring
abortion providers to be affiliated with a hospital within 30
miles (48 kilometers) of their clinic was temporarily blocked by
a state court in Fargo.  Judge  Wickham Corwin  granted a request by the Red River
Women’s Clinic to block the law after a hearing today, saying
the state failed to show a compelling need for it. The clinic is
the only abortion provider in North Dakota, he said in his
ruling.  “A woman’s right to choose is one of the inalienable
freedoms guaranteed by the first section of our constitution,”
Corwin said, contradicting the state’s arguments.  Signed into law by Republican Governor Jack Dalrymple on
March 26, the affiliation requirement was scheduled to take
effect tomorrow and would have forced the Red River Women’s
Clinic in Fargo to close.  “As RRWC provides its physicians with the appropriate
staff and facilities, there is obviously no need for a
legislative mandate that each of those physicians be
credentialed to also perform abortions at a local hospital,”
the judge said.  Second Setback  Corwin’s ruling is the second setback this month for
efforts to place new limits on abortion in  North Dakota . A law
barring abortions if a fetal heartbeat is detected was
temporarily blocked July 22 by a federal judge who called the
measure “a blatant violation” of U.S. Supreme Court rulings.  North Dakota Attorney General Wayne Stenehjem’s press
secretary, Liz Brocker, didn’t immediately reply to an e-mailed
request for comment on Corwin’s ruling.  “Today’s decision ensures that North Dakota’s only
abortion clinic can keep its doors open to the many women it
provides critical health care to every year,” Bebe Anderson,
director of the Center for Reproductive Rights’ U.S. legal
program, said in a statement today.  The admitting case is MKB Management Corp., d/b/a Red River
Women’s Clinic v. Burdick, 09-2011-CV-02205, North Dakota
District Court, East Central Judicial District, Cass County
(Fargo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  