-- Labor Board Republicans Seen Aiding Employers in Disputes
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-07-31T04:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/labor-board-republicans-seen-aiding-employers-in-disputes.html
Senate confirmation of five U.S.
labor board members yesterday, including two Republicans, will
give businesses a dissenting voice on the board for the first
time in seven months.  The addition of Phil Miscimarra and Harry Johnson, lawyers
who represent management in labor disputes, to the National
Labor Relations Board fills two Republican seats vacant since
December. The Senate also confirmed Democrats Nancy Schiffer, a
former AFL-CIO associate general counsel, and Kent Hirozawa,
chief lawyer for board Chairman Mark Gaston Pearce, who also was
approved. All five seats will be filled by confirmed members for
first time since President  Barack Obama  took office.  The board has been led by Democrats since 2010, with no
Republicans since December as the appointment process stalled
amid a stalemate between the administration of President Barack
Obama and Congress. With two Republican members, the board will
at least consider a business agenda, said Steve Bernstein, a
labor attorney in Tampa,  Florida , who represents management.  “For the first time in quiet a while, you’ll have the
prospect for real dissent,” Bernstein said in an interview.
“Dissents are very valuable for the courts on appeal because
they have an opportunity to perhaps gauge both sides of an issue
more effectively.”  The Senate confirmed the Republicans by voice vote, the two
Democrats 54-44 and Pearce 59-38. Lawmakers voted after Obama
agreed to drop two Democrats he appointed without Senate
confirmation in 2012, substituting Schiffer and Hirozawa. The
swap helped end a stalemate and allowed confirmation of stalled
nominees to other administration posts. The labor board has
lacked five confirmed members since late August 2003.  ‘Fairly, Impartially’  “We congratulate all of the nominees and look forward to
having a functioning NLRB that will fairly and impartially
oversee the workplace rights of millions of Americans,”  AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka said in a statement.  The board with Sharon Block and Richard Griffin, appointed
by Obama without Senate action, has ruled on over 900 cases,
Senator Lamar Alexander of  Tennessee , the top Republican on the
Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, said at
a May hearing. Employers have challenged about 120 of those
decisions citing the appeal court ruling.  It’s possible though unlikely that the new board will try
to ratify past decisions that are not pending in appeals courts,
Bernstein said. It would be even more difficult to ratify
decisions that are before courts, he said.  ‘Rubber Stamp’  Such a move may lead to a scenario “in which the board
members attempts to rubber stamp these cases and then the
Supreme Court hands down a decision a year from now that takes
it in a very different direction,” Bernstein said. “I’m not
saying it’s impossible, but I’m saying it’s unlikely.”  Both of the new Democratic members have long-standing ties
to labor, according to Randel Johnson, a senior vice president
at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business
lobbying group. The board’s pro-union tilt will continue, even
though the NLRB will now have all five slots filled and two
Republicans will be part of the deliberations, he said.  The Republicans “will write some great dissents, but the
votes will still remain 3-2 in most cases,” Johnson said.  Some in the Republican party have characterized the labor
board under Obama as a rogue agency that has tried to grab power
by issuing rules rather than just hearing disputes between labor
and management. At a hearing last week, Senator Orrin Hatch, a
Utah Republican, said the agency in 2011 issued two
“controversial” rules, both of which were invalidated in
federal court.  Perry, Gingrich  As Republican presidential candidates in 2012, Texas
Governor  Rick Perry  and former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  said
they would, if elected, eliminate the board.  Republican suspicion of the NLRB deepened after a ruling in
January by the U.S. Court of Appeals in  Washington  that Obama’s
appointments to the board in 2012 were unconstitutional. More
than 100 challenges to board decisions are pending in courts
citing the appeals court ruling, board spokesman Gregory King
said.  “Few agencies are as politicized as the National Labor
Relations Board,” Angela Cornell, director of the Labor Law
Clinic at Cornell Law School in Ithaca, New York, said in an
interview. “Sometimes I think opposition to nominations is more
an issue with the purpose of the underlying statute rather than
the individuals involved.”  Workplace ‘Umpire’  Fred Feinstein, general counsel to the NLRB from 1994 to
1999, said the board is united on most decisions. Rhetoric that
paints the agency as controversial is out of touch with reality,
he said.  “I don’t think its a view that’s shared very widely, even
within the management community,” Feinstein said in an
interview. “You need an umpire, even if you don’t like the
particular umpire.”  Obama this month withdrew  Obama appointed Block and
Griffin 18 months ago after Senate Republicans stalled their
confirmation, refused to declare a congressional recess, then
held brief pro-forma sessions without passing legislation. Obama
said the Senate was in recess.  Their appointments were ruled invalid by a federal court,
which said naming both without confirmation was a violation of
the Constitution. The administration said the decision applied
to a single case and the board would continue to issue
decisions. The U.S. Supreme Court has agreed to hear an appeal
of the court decision.  Schiffer, Hirozawa  Schiffer from 2000 to 2012 was general counsel for the AFL-CIO, the federation that represents 57 labor unions with 12
million members. Schiffer also worked for the United Auto
Workers Union.  Hirozawa worked at the labor board from 1984 to 1986 as an
attorney in the region that includes New York City. Hirozawa
then was a partner in the New York law firm Gladstein, Reif and
Meginniss LLP, which “is organized around the principal that
workers and their organizations deserve top-quality legal
representation just as much as corporations,” according to its
website. He returned to the board in 2010 a counsel to Pearce.  “It seems increasingly in recent years, and some would say
it was even true under the Bush W. administration, that the
pendulum has had a tendency to swing a little more wildly,”
Bernstein said. “ We can no longer it seems rely upon battle
tested doctrine. That’s something new for all of us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  