-- Afghan War Civilian Casualties Jump 23%, United Nations Reports
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2013-07-31T12:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/afghan-war-civilian-casualties-jump-23-united-nations-reports.html
Civilian casualties from
Afghanistan’s conflict with Taliban guerrillas jumped by almost
a quarter in the first half of this year, according to the
 United Nations , underscoring the challenges facing local forces
now leading security operations.  Violence killed 1,319 civilians and wounded 2,533 up to the
end of June, representing a 23 percent increase in overall
casualties from the same period in 2012, a  report prepared  by
the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan said today. More than
half were caused by the Taliban’s use of improvised explosive
devices, it said. In the first six months of last year, 1,158
civilians died and 1,976 were injured.  “The growing loss of life and injuries to Afghan women and
children in 2013 is particularly disturbing,” said Georgette Gagnon, director of UNAMA’s Human Rights Unit. “Deaths and
injuries to women and children increased by 38 percent in the
first half of 2013 reflecting a grim reality of the conflict
today in  Afghanistan .”  As U.S.-led combat troops leave the country by the end of
next year, security is likely to further deteriorate, said Jawid
Kohistani, a Kabul-based political and security analyst, in a
phone interview. “Afghans may face a major disaster next
year,” he said.  The report attributed 74 percent of casualties to
insurgents, 12 percent to clashes between Afghan forces and
Taliban fighters and nine percent to the actions of Afghan
forces. The remaining 5 percent were unattributed. The UN said
146 civilians were killed and 216 wounded by Afghan and NATO
troops while conducting operations.  NATO’s  International Security Assistance Force , or ISAF,
said in an e-mailed statement that protecting civilians is a
“cornerstone” of its mission.  Taliban spokesman  Zabihullah Mujahed  rejected the report in
a phone interview. He said it was “completely untrue and
biased,” adding that the majority of civilian deaths were due
to NATO aerial bombing and ground operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  