-- Aflac Bets on Japan Bonds in Strategy Reversal
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-07-31T15:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/aflac-restores-japan-government-bond-bet-in-strategy-reversal.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the largest seller of
supplemental health insurance, is betting on Japanese government
debt in a retreat from a plan it put in place a year ago.  Aflac said it’s turning back to Japanese  government bonds 
to support obligations in that country, where the insurer does
 most of its business , amid volatility in financial markets.
Aflac had been seeking to invest two-thirds of its Japanese  cash
flow  in U.S. corporate bonds hedged to yen in a program started
in July 2012, Chief Investment Officer Eric Kirsch said in May.  “We expect to allocate the majority of third-quarter cash
flows to JGBs and underweight the allocation to U.S. corporate
hedged bonds,” Aflac Chief Executive Officer Dan Amos said in a
statement late yesterday announcing second-quarter results.
“Our investment team has been carefully evaluating investment
options related to our  asset allocation , as well as strategies
to help mitigate interest-rate risk.”  Amos hired Kirsch in 2011 from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
revamp the portfolio, after Aflac was burned by privately
negotiated investments in European banks that issued debt in
yen. The company said yesterday that rising  interest rates  in
the U.S. and  Japan  reduced a measure of solvency monitored by
Japanese regulators.  “We’d rather stand on the sideline through the volatility,
because we’re performing on all of our metrics,” Kirsch said
today on a conference call with analysts. “We have just gone
through, in the second quarter, one of the highest rates of
volatility relative to rates that we have seen since 2008.”  Rate Hedges  Kirsch said Aflac is also considering interest-rate hedging
strategies, and the company plans to move some Japanese
government bonds out of the available-for-sale portfolio. That
may help cushion the effects of rising bond yields on Aflac’s
solvency ratio,  John Nadel , an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc. said today in a research note.  The accounting change can “only be applied to Yen-denominated assets supporting Yen-denominated liabilities,” he
said.  Aflac had  $35.5 billion  of Japanese government debt as of
June 30, compared with  $38 billion  a year earlier. The Columbus,
Georgia-based company’s investment portfolio is about $101.4
billion, and mostly backs obligations in Japan.  Market Volatility  “First and foremost was the volatility in the market,”
Robin Wilkey, Aflac’s senior vice president of investor and
rating agency relations, said by phone, citing the rise in U.S.
interest rates. “The more conservative and prudent thing to do,
with our liabilities all yen-denominated over there, was to move
for the third quarter back into investing primarily in JGBs.”  Aflac is scaling back the proportion of its cash flow going
to U.S. corporate bonds after the allocation exceeded the target
in the first half of the year, Wilkey said.  Interest rates have risen since May, when Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank may slow the pace
of its economic stimulus program in its next few meetings. The
bank may taper its monthly bond buying later this year and end
it in mid-2014, Bernanke said last month.  Yields on  10-year Japanese government debt  jumped 29.5
basis points in the second quarter to 0.855 percent, while 10-year Treasury yields gained 64 basis points. Average yields on
U.S. investment-grade corporate bonds climbed to 3.44 percent
from 2.83 percent in the period, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Bond values fall when rates rise.  BOJ Purchases  Japanese bond yields have since come down, with the 10-year
rate at 0.80 percent today, the lowest globally. The biggest
factor in the decline is massive purchasing from the  Bank of
Japan , while domestic investors have started to chase higher
yields overseas, said Toru Yamamoto, the chief strategist at
Daiwa Securities Co.  “Aflac’s investment plan is positive for super-long-term
bonds,” said Tokyo-based Yamamoto, whose company is Japan’s
second-biggest brokerage.  The 30-year JGB yielded 1.72 percent today, while the 30-year rate was at 1.82 percent. The BOJ announced in April it
would more than double bond purchases to defeat deflation and
spur the economy.  Kirsch said in May that Aflac monitors the difference in
yield between Japanese government debt and the hedged U.S.
corporate bonds. Aflac uses forward contracts to hedge the  U.S.
debt  to yen and the costs of the contracts are tied to short-term interest rates in the U.S. and Japan, he said.  ‘Embarrassing Oops’  Aflac said yesterday that  profit  rose 84 percent in the
second quarter to $889 million, after the company recorded
realized investment gains. Japan new annualized premium sales
fell 43 percent after Aflac raised prices for some products.  Japan Post  Holdings Co., the country’s biggest holder of
 bank deposits , will start selling more insurance products by
Aflac, the insurer said in a statement last week. Japan Post,
which began offering Aflac’s cancer insurance products in
October 2008, will sell the policies in as many as 20,000 post
offices from the current 1,000, and the two companies will also
co-develop insurance products, according to the statement.  Aflac had  advanced  15 percent this year through yesterday
in  New York  trading, compared with the 35 percent advance of the
24-company KBW Insurance Index. The company added 1.5 percent
today to $61.76 at 11:22 a.m. in New York.  Eric Berg , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets , said the
investment strategy that led to a decline in the solvency ratio
may call into question the company’s share repurchase target.  “This is certainly not a major blow,” he wrote in a
research note today. “It’s more in the category of an
embarrassing ‘oops.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  