-- Hagel Sees Modernization Lull Versus Smaller U.S. Forces
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-08-01T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/hagel-sees-modernization-lull-versus-smaller-u-s-forces.html
The Pentagon will be forced to choose
between a decade-long “modernization holiday” and a “much
smaller” force if the military has to absorb continued budget
cuts of at least $50 billion annually through 2023, Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel said.  Even if the Defense Department makes draconian cuts in
forces, delays work on improved weapons and wrings our additional
efficiencies, that won’t be enough to curtail severe impacts of
the budget process called sequestration in the next five years,
the defense chief said yesterday in remarks to reporters.  Hagel outlined the broad dimensions of two approaches
presented in a “Strategic Choices and Management Review” he
ordered. One is deeply reducing forces, especially in the Army,
while retaining a greater technological capability. The other is
delaying weapons advances to maintain the force at levels
currently planned.  Hagel also briefed congressional committee leaders
yesterday, effectively warning lawmakers they must alleviate
cuts or take responsibility for the alternatives.  Republican Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon of
 California , chairman of the House Armed Services Committee,
criticized the review in an e-mail as “entirely budget-driven,
deferring any further consideration of strategy.”  Hagel had pledged a far-reaching effort to cut waste and
reexamine weapons systems, saying in April that the exercise
couldn’t be limited to “just tweaking or chipping away at
existing structures and practices, but where necessary
fashioning entirely new ones.”  Lockheed’s F-35  Instead, the review sketched broader alternatives. If the
Pentagon cuts deeply into forces, Hagel said yesterday, the
military will be able to protect certain programs, such as
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter, a program to build a new
long-range bomber and upgrades in submarine cruise missiles.  That approach calls for reducing the Army from a planned
490,000 active-duty personnel to as few as 380,000. The Marines
would be reduced from a planned 182,000 to as few as 150,000. It
also could result in retiring Air Force bombers and reducing the
Navy’s carrier force to as few as eight ships from 11.  Slowing Modernization  The second option would retain the planned force, cancel or
curtail “many modernization programs, slow the growth of cyber
enhancements and reduce special operations forces,” Hagel said.  Asked yesterday whether there is an emerging consensus in
the Pentagon about protecting forces or weapons capability,
Admiral James Winnefeld, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, predicted “we will edge slightly probably toward
capability, because we have to keep our industrial base alive,
we have to keep focusing on new technologies.”  Retired Major General Arnold Punaro, who frequently advises
the Pentagon, said Hagel “is the first senior leader to actually 
require a serious” review of potential targets for cuts.  “Secretary Hagel should be awarded the military’s highest
marksmanship badge as he has put every round in the black,”
Punaro said in an e-mailed statement.  Hagel said that “one of the most striking conclusions”
of the review is that even if the Pentagon combines the savings
from all potential options -- “including significant cuts to
the military’s size and capability -- the savings fall well
short of meeting sequester-level cuts, particularly during the
first five years of these steep, decade-long reductions.”  Budget Plan  The Pentagon would fall short by as much as $35 billion a
year in fiscal 2014 and 2015, he said.  Hagel said the summary provided yesterday is intended to
help shape preparation of a budget plan for fiscal years 2015 to
2019 and a Quadrennial Defense Review under scenarios that
include a continuation of sequestration.  He previously announced that he was ordering a reduction in
headquarters staff by 20 percent, including his office, the
Joint Chiefs’ staff and combat commands.  While Hagel referred generally yesterday to the prospect of
cutting or delaying major weapons, in April he had pledged a
skeptical review of Pentagon acquisition programs.  “Despite pruning many major procurement programs over the
past four years, the military’s modernization strategy still
depends on systems that are vastly more expensive and
technologically risky than what was promised or budgeted for,”
Hagel said then in his first major policy speech as defense
secretary.  Pay, Benefits  Hagel said that the sequestration levels envisioned over
the decade “would break some parts” of the current strategy
that envisions a rebalance to  Asia  “no matter how the cuts are
made.”  Hagel also took aim at pay and benefits for troops,
directing Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, to lead a study aimed at saving $50 billion in
personnel costs over the next decade. He acknowledged Congress
has opposed such cuts in the past.  Savings options include making military retirees use more
private health insurance, requiring troops to pay more toward
their housing costs, reducing cost-of-living adjustments for
troops stationed overseas and continuing to limit military and
civilian pay raises, Hagel said.  “Overall personnel costs have risen dramatically -- some
40 percent above inflation since 2001,” Hagel said. “The
department cannot afford to sustain this growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  