-- AGL, First Solar to Build Australia’s Largest Solar Project
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-07-31T03:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/agl-first-solar-to-develop-australia-s-largest-solar-project.html
AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) , Australia’s largest
developer of renewable energy projects, said it will go ahead
with a A$450 million ($408 million) solar project in New South
Wales state with  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)   AGL will build the 155-megawatt project at two sites in
Broken Hill and Nyngan with A$166.7 million in federal and
A$64.9 million in state funds, the Sydney-based company said
today in a statement. AGL doesn’t need to sell shares or take on
debt to pay for the plants, Managing Director Michael Fraser
said today in Sydney at a news conference.  AGL is building the nation’s largest solar power
development, covering a combined area four times the size of
downtown Sydney, as  Australia  moves toward a goal of getting at
least 20 percent of its power from renewable energy sources by
the end of the decade. The Nyngan plant is also expected to be
the largest in the southern hemisphere, AGL said.  “This has been the missing piece of the jigsaw puzzle for
clean energy in Australia,” Climate Change Minister Mark Butler
said today at a news conference in Sydney. “Getting a large-scale, or utility-scale, solar project up in Australia has been
an ambition for many years.”  Australia is forecast to install about 5,000 megawatts of
large solar photovoltaic plants through 2020, driven by the
country’s renewable energy target, according to a Bloomberg New
Energy Finance report on June 28. That compares with 17
megawatts of large-scale capacity today, BNEF said.  Silverton Delayed  While the government last year awarded the funds to AGL and
First Solar, it scrapped a plan to provide A$464 million to an
 Areva SA (AREVA)  venture after the Queensland government pulled funding
for the 250-megawatt project.  Construction of the 102-megawatt Nyngan project in central
New South Wales is scheduled to start in January, with
completion expected by mid-2015, according to AGL, which also
operates the A$1 billion Macarthur wind farm in Australia. The
Broken Hill plant in the western part of the state is expected
to start in July 2014 and be completed in about November 2015.  First Solar, the largest U.S. solar-panel manufacturer by
shipments, will provide engineering and construction services
for both plants, using its modules, according to the statement.  AGL, which won Australian government funds for the New
South Wales solar project last year, has invested more than A$3
billion in renewable energy in the past seven years, making it
the largest developer of projects in the country during that
period, the company said earlier this month.  AGL delayed a A$550 million wind farm in Australia because
of uncertainty over government policy. AGL will defer hiring an
engineering and construction contractor for the proposed
Silverton wind farm in Australia’s New South  Wales  state and
review its position in 2014, it said July 11.  The company will wait for the outcome of a review of the
2020 clean energy target “before we make any further
commitments,” Fraser said today. “I’d like to think we’re not
done” developing more renewable energy projects, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  