-- Ahmadinejad Distorted Iran Economic Record, Rohani Aide Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-07-31T11:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ahmadinejad-distorted-account-of-record-in-iran-rohani-aide.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad ’s reports on his government’s achievements are
“erroneous” and do not reflect the nation’s true economic
situation, an aide to President-elect Hassan Rohani said.  Experts appointed by Rohani to review the state of the
country’s economy are finding drastically different results from
data given by Ahmadinejad, Akbar Torkan, head of the
presidential transition team, told the Tehran-based  Shargh 
newspaper in an interview published today.  Rohani, who is to be sworn in on Aug. 4, was elected last
month after pledging to ease  Iran ’s economic and political
isolation. During Ahmadinejad’s eight years in office, Iran was
hit with intensifying international sanctions over its nuclear
program.  Ahmadinejad’s government has “mistakenly or
intentionally” quadrupled its actual track record on  road
construction , Torkan said. Its claims that hundreds of thousands
of jobs were created during his tenure fail to take into account
the number of people who lost their jobs, he said. On this
basis, an average of just 14,000 jobs per year were created
since 2006, he said.  Torkan also criticized last-minute and “rushed” actions
by the outgoing president, including “transfer of assets,
signing of new contracts and taking on new commitments,” Shargh
reported.  ‘Good Deeds’  Vice-President Mohammad-Reza Rahimi announced earlier this
month that a large plot of land in the Iranian capital which had
been devoted to exhibitions was being ceded to Iran’s national
broadcasting organization. Rahimi said the move was
“essential” as it will allow the broadcaster to expand “in
the face of foreign-based media,” the  Hamshahri  newspaper
reported July 10.  Ahmadinejad has also ordered the creation of a “Former
President’s Office” in an effort to retain a presence even
after Rohani takes over. The agency will be staffed by 25
people, consisting of a director, experts and others in charge
of coordination and communication, local newspapers including
Donya-e-Eqtesad said this month.  “Ahmadinejad’s government is rushing into making transfers
and hiring people when it had eight years to do these things,”
Torkan said. “Even if we say these are good decisions, it is
not for Mr. Ahmadinejad to do all good deeds in the universe. He
may leave some of it for Mr. Rohani to take on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  