-- Thailand’s Baht, Bonds Fall in Month on Growth Risk, Fed Outlook
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-07-31T02:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/thailand-s-baht-bonds-fall-in-month-on-growth-risk-fed-outlook.html
Thailand ’s baht headed for a fourth
monthly drop, the longest losing streak since 2008, on concern
an economic slowdown in China will hurt the Southeast Asian
nation’s exports.  A Bank of Thailand report today will show the nation posted
a current-account  deficit  for a third month in June, according
to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Ten-year government bonds
dropped amid speculation the Federal Reserve will give further
clues today to the timing of reductions in monetary stimulus
that has boosted demand for emerging-market assets.  “The deterioration in the current-account balance hurts
sentiment and with China’s slowdown, the export outlook won’t be
bright either,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a manager of Rakuten
Securities Inc.’s fixed-income business unit department in
 Tokyo . “Still, the biggest attention is paid to the outlook for
the Fed’s reduction in stimulus.”  The baht depreciated 1 percent this month and 0.3 percent
today to 31.37 per dollar as of 9:09 a.m. in Bangkok, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the weakest level in three
weeks. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, slumped 191 basis
points from the end of June and 16 basis points today to 6.13
percent.  Thailand’s current-account deficit totaled $785 million
last month after a $1.05 billion of shortfall the previous
month, according to the survey before data due 2:30 p.m. local
time. A customs report on July 26 showed  exports  decreased 3.4
percent in June after a 5.3 percent drop in May. Shipments to
 China , Thailand’s biggest export market, plunged 17 percent.  Slowing Growth  The Thai economy probably slowed in the second quarter from
the preceding period on weak exports and cooling local demand,
Ekniti Nitithanprapas, deputy director-general of the Finance
Ministry’s Fiscal Policy Office, said on July 29.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing was
49.8 for July, lower than the mark of 50 which divides expansion
and contraction, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey before data due Aug. 1.  The Fed, which has indicated asset purchases could be
trimmed should risks to the U.S. economy abate, will probably
keep its key rate at 0.25 percent in an announcement after the
Open Market Committee meeting today, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  The yield on the 3.625 percent sovereign bonds due June
2023 climbed 20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, to 3.96
percent this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
rate, which increased two basis points today, is the highest
since June 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  