-- Air Products Markets First Euro Bond Since 2007 as Costs Drop
-- B y   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e   a n d   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-07-31T15:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/air-products-markets-first-euro-bond-since-2007-as-costs-drop.html
Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) , the
world’s largest hydrogen and helium supplier, is marketing its
first bonds denominated in euros since 2007 as the average yield
on investment-grade corporate notes in the region falls.  The industrial-gas producer, based in Allentown,
 Pennsylvania , is selling 300 million euros ($398 million) of
seven-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter
who asked not to be identified because it’s private. The average
yield for investment-grade bonds in euros fell to 1.96 percent,
the lowest in more than a week, and down seven basis points
since the start of the month, Bloomberg  bond index  data show.  Credit markets rallied worldwide in July after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said there’s no fixed schedule
for slowing stimulus measures. The cost of insuring corporate
debt in  Europe  is poised for its first monthly decline since
April as sales of investment-grade bonds in euros rose 17
percent from June, the quietest month since December, according
to Bloomberg data.  “We had so much market volatility in June in particular,
with the discussions about Fed tapering, which meant that the
market was almost closed,” said Jonathan Pitkanen, the London-based head of credit research at  Threadneedle Asset Management
Ltd . “There were a lot of deals waiting in the sidelines for
the market to reopen in June and we’ve seen the result of that
this month.”  U.S. Companies  Air Products is the first non-financial U.S. company
selling bonds in Europe since General Electric Co., the world’s
biggest maker of  jet engines , raised 1 billion euros with notes
due July 2020 on July 12 through its GE Capital European Funding
unit, data compiled by Bloomberg show. U.S. companies raised 4.8
billion euros from bond sales denominated in euros and pounds in
July, the busiest month since April and up from 900 million
euros in June.  Air Products is offering its notes to yield 50 basis points
more than the benchmark mid-swap rate, the person said. Albert
Raich, a spokesman for Air Products in  Barcelona ,  Spain , didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call seeking comment on the sale.  The average spread over swaps on investment-grade euro
bonds narrowed to 89.8 basis points, the least since June 19,
Bloomberg bond index data show.  Poison Pill  Billionaire  William Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP has bought a 9.8 percent stake in Air Products
less than a week after the company adopted a measure to prevent
its acquisition. Ackman confirmed the purchase, valued at about
$2.2 billion, in an e-mail today. Under the poison-pill
shareholder rights plan, which was approved on July 25, existing
investors are given the right to acquire deeply discounted
shares should an investor acquire 10 percent of the company
without board approval.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 investment-grade companies has fallen 19 basis points this
month to 100, almost erasing the 21-basis-point increase over
the previous two months.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 73 basis
points this month to 404. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index
linked to senior debt of 25 banks and insurers fell 27 basis
points to 141 and the subordinated index decreased 33 basis
points to 218.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  