-- Air France to Deepen Job Cuts as New Chief Seeks to Stem Decline
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-07-31T19:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/air-france-to-deepen-job-cuts-as-new-chief-seeks-to-stem-decline.html
  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  said it wants
to cut 2,600 jobs at its French airline unit next year as new
Chief Executive Officer Alexandre de Juniac confronts slow
economic growth in  Europe  as well as higher fuel prices.  Europe’s biggest airline, saying last week that it expects
to report an operating profit for this year, told its central
works council that it would seek the cuts through attrition and
early retirements, with a target of implementing the latest set
of cuts by the end of 2014, the carrier said today.  Juniac, who took over the top job last month after running
the Air  France  unit for 1 1/2 years, said last week that there
remained work to be done to turn around the French unit. The
proposed cuts follow savings programs at  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
and  IAG SA (IAG) ’s Iberia, which have also struggled to adapt to slack
demand and passengers’ move to low-cost carriers.  “Within a difficult economic environment, particularly in
France and South Europe, the Air France Group needs to implement
the measures required to ensure an enduring turnaround in its
short- and medium-haul and cargo businesses,” the airline said
in the statement.  Juniac put together a cost-savings program last year that
already includes more than 5,100 job cuts at the French airline,
representing about 10 percent of the total. Those reductions, to
be completed by the end of 2013, are also through voluntary
departures.  The executive last week said that the so-called Transform
2015 program is on track, though worse-than-projected economic
conditions in many parts of the world are making it harder to
effect a recovery.  The announcement today is the beginning of process that
will involve negotiations with employees. Air France plans to
present details to employees in early October, ahead of talks
that will conclude in time to begin new cuts by January 2014.  Lufthansa aims to lift operating profit to a record 2.3
billion euros ($3 billion) by 2015 via a plan that calls for
3,500 job cuts.   Spain ’s booked a 311 million-euro charge for
restructuring Iberia in May after pushing through a plan to
slash 3,100 posts as it seeks a 600 million-euro earnings
rebound by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  