-- Airlines Lift Fuel Surcharge as Rising Kerosene Cost Clip Profit
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-07-31T11:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/airlines-lift-fuel-surcharge-as-rising-kerosene-cost-clip-profit.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s
second-largest airline, is joining Emirates and  Qantas Airways
Ltd. (QAN)  in raising fuel surcharges to combat rising  kerosene costs .  Lufthansa is adding 50 euros ($66) to existing surcharges
on intercontinental routes in business and first class from Aug.
7, the company said today. Qantas is adding as much as A$75
($68) per leg on tickets for international flights issued after
Aug. 14, the same day Emirates will increase its fuel
surcharges, without providing details.  Kerosene costs are eating into carrier’s profits, as rising
jet fuel prices doubled Lufthansa’s 2012 fuel bill to 7.4
billion euros ($9.8 billion) in just three years. Qantas and
Emirates are blaming currency fluctuations for higher fuel
costs, while  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , Europe’s largest discount
carrier, yesterday said profit dropped 21 percent on higher fuel
costs  “Due to the variance in exchange rates in recent weeks and
the associated impact on our fuel costs, Emirates is increasing
its fuel surcharge,” the company said. The surcharge was a
faster way of responding to rising prices than incorporating the
cost into fares, according to the carrier.  The higher charges for premium customers are a novelty for
Lufthansa, which had previously rolled out higher fees for all
passenger classes. Fuel costs typically represent the highest
expense at an airline, often making up at least 40 percent of
the total.  Airlines usually pay their fuel bills in U.S. dollars,
adding a potential source of cost if currencies fluctuate. The
Australian dollar today declined to within 0.2 percent of its
lowest level in almost three years, raising the price of U.S.-
dollar denominated products.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  