-- Taiwan’s Economy Grew More-Than-Estimated 2.27% Last Quarter
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2013-07-31T02:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/taiwan-s-economy-grew-more-than-estimated-2-27-last-quarter.html
Taiwan ’s economy expanded at a
faster-than-estimated pace in the second quarter as domestic
consumption improved, even as a slowdown in  China  damps the
outlook for the island’s exports.  Gross domestic product rose 2.27 percent from a year
earlier after increasing 1.67 percent in the first quarter, the
statistics bureau said in a preliminary report in Taipei today.
The median estimate of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was 2.1 percent.  The pick-up in growth came as the island faces increasing
risks from China, its biggest trading partner, which recorded a
second straight quarterly slowdown. Chinese Premier  Li Keqiang ’s
efforts to rein in a record credit boom and curb housing prices
increase the risk of missing the year’s expansion goal, dragging
on the global recovery and hurting demand for Taiwan’s products.  In the second half, Taiwan’s “recovery will still be at a
very slow pace because of the weakness in external demand,”
said Ma Tieying, an economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in
 Singapore . “The slowdown of China is a major risk facing Taiwan
because the economy is largely supported by China.”  The benchmark  Taiex stock index  slipped 0.3 percent at 9:51
a.m. local time. The Taiwan dollar gained 0.2 percent to
NT$29.962 against the U.S. currency, according to Taipei Forex
Inc. It has declined about 3 percent this year.  Luxury Tax  Taiwan in May lowered its official forecast for growth this
year to 2.4 percent from 3.59 percent. The economy expanded a
seasonally-adjusted 0.59 percent in the second quarter from the
previous quarter, today’s report showed.  Private consumption increased 1.61 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, compared to a 0.35 percent gain in
the previous period. Manufacturing rose 1.22 percent from a year
earlier, slower than a 1.54 percent pace in the first quarter.  President Ma Ying-jeou said in an interview last week that
he ruled out driving down the  Taiwan dollar  to boost exports
following the currency’s rally against the yen. He said the
government aims for growth of at least 2 percent this year.  Overseas shipments, which are equivalent to about two-thirds of gross domestic product, rose a better-than-expected
8.6 percent in June from a year earlier, even as industrial
output slipped for a fifth straight month.  Export orders , an
indication of shipments in the next one to three months, also
fell for a fifth month in June.  Taiwan earlier let insurers invest in infrastructure
projects and created a NT$1 billion ($33 million) fund to
channel money to companies in a bid to spur growth. The central
bank held the benchmark interest  rate  at 1.875 percent for an
eighth straight meeting in June, the longest period of inaction.  The government is considering tightening luxury-tax rules
to narrow the gap between property prices and personal incomes
to boost consumption. It is also seeking closer trade ties with
other countries to reduce its reliance on China, and earlier
this month signed an economic cooperation agreement with  New
Zealand , its first such deal with a developed country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  