-- Malaysia Stocks Fall Most in 7 Weeks, Ringgit Drops on Fitch Cut
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-07-31T09:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/malaysian-stocks-fall-most-in-7-weeks-bonds-slump-on-fitch-cut.html
Malaysian  stocks  fell the most in
almost seven weeks, the ringgit slumped and bonds extended
losses after  Fitch Ratings  cut the nation’s credit outlook,
citing rising debt levels and a lack of budgetary reform.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  sank 1.3 percent to
1,772.62 at the 5 p.m. close in Kuala Lumpur, the steepest loss
since June 13. The currency dropped to a three-year low and 10-year bond yields climbed to the highest since January 2011.  Fitch reduced its credit outlook on  Malaysia  to negative
from stable, saying in a statement yesterday that Malaysia’s
public finances are its “key rating weakness.” The shrinking
current-account surplus and $2.9 billion of sovereign debt
maturing today raises the risk of capital outflows, putting the
ringgit on course for its worst month in more than a year.  “The warning has been given to Malaysia that most likely
they will cut the rating if the government is not doing much,”
said Ang Kok Heng, who helps manage $428 million as chief
investment officer at Phillip Capital Management Sdn. in  Kuala
Lumpur . “For some foreign investors who are thinking whether to
get out of Malaysia, this is a trigger, an excuse for them to
get out.”  Malaysia is committed to continue its fiscal reform plan,
including rationalizing subsidies and broadening the tax base,
the government said in an e-mailed statement today. The economy
is “fundamentally healthy” with “strong” growth and foreign
currency reserves, it said.  Index Valuations  The KLCI index,, which reached a record on July 24, slid
for a fifth day, dragging  valuations  to the lowest level in a
month. UEM Sunrise Bhd., Malaysia’s largest property developer
by market value, dropped 6.3 percent, the biggest loss in the
gauge. The ringgit depreciated 0.6 percent to 3.2440 per dollar
in Kuala Lumpur, the weakest level since July 2010, according to
data compiled to Bloomberg.  A downgrade on Malaysia’s credit rating is “more likely
than not” over the next 18 to 24 months,  Andrew Colquhoun , head
of Asia-Pacific sovereigns at Fitch, said in a conference call
today.  The ratings company also lowered today the outlook on
Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and Malayan Banking Bhd. to negative
from stable following the revision for sovereign rating.  “The central issue for us is the public finances,”
Colquhoun said. “The government’s relatively weak showing in
the May election has diminished their political capital and
ability to press forward with both fiscal consolidation, or with
structural budgetary reforms.”  Bond Yields  The yield on 3.48 percent government notes due March 2023
rose four basis points to 4.14 percent, the highest for a
benchmark 10-year note since January 2011 and adding to an 18
basis-point increase yesterday. The two-year onshore interest-rate swap climbed three basis points to 3.37 percent.  “The dynamics of Malaysia’s current-account surplus
getting narrower and the fiscal deficit getting wider are
negative for the ringgit,” said  Nizam Idris , head of fixed
income and currency strategy at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  Singapore .
“The shorter-term issue is the bond repayment, which the market
has been worried about.”  Fitch affirmed Malaysia’s long-term foreign currency-denominated rating at A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade. It
will be difficult for the government to meet a 3 percent deficit
target in 2015 without more consolidation, the company said in
the statement.  Public Debt  Malaysia’s debt to gross domestic product ratio of 53.5
percent is higher than 25 percent in  Indonesia , 51 percent in
the  Philippines  and 43 percent in  Thailand , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It’s also approaching the government’s 55
percent limit. The  budget deficit  widened to 4.7 percent of GDP
in 2012 from 3.8 percent in 2011, led by a 19 percent rise in
spending on public wages ahead of the May election, Fitch said.  Pressure on the ringgit will remain until the external
outlook improves and  Bank Negara Malaysia  will probably defend
the ringgit’s 3.25 per dollar level, according to a DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. research note today. The current-account surplus
will narrow to 6 percent in 2013 from 6.1 percent last year and
12 percent in 2011, a Bloomberg survey of economists shows.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose 51 basis points,
or 0.51 percentage point to a one-month high of 9.05 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Michael
Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  