-- Mali Candidate Rejects Claims Keita May Win Vote Outright
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   R i h o u a y   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-07-31T13:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/mali-candidate-rejects-claims-keita-may-win-vote-outright.html
Malian presidential candidate
Soumaila Cisse’s campaign disputed a statement from a government
minister that former Prime Minister Ibrahim Boubacar Keita may
win the July 28 election without a run-off.  Minister of Territorial Administration Moussa Sinko
Coulibaly told reporters yesterday that Keita held a
“significant” lead and if the gap was maintained, there would
be no need for a run-off vote. He has until Aug. 2 to send the
preliminary results to the constitutional court, which will
publish them.  The ministry has counted 12 percent of the ballots rather
than a third as Coulibaly said yesterday, Gouagnon Coulibaly,
the national coordinator of Cisse’s campaign, said today by
phone from Bamako, the capital.  Keita, 68, leads Cisse, a 63-year-old former commission
chairman of the West African Monetary Union, and Dramane
Dembele, the minister said, without giving specific figures.  Mali’s first presidential election since an army coup and a
French military offensive against rebels in the north won praise
from foreign monitors including the European Union and the
 International Republican Institute . Donors deemed the vote
necessary before they can resume aid to the West African nation,
the continent’s third-biggest gold producer.  The 27-candidate race took place following more than a year
of strife after an ethnic-Touareg uprising in the north prompted
a group of soldiers to overthrow the government. French and
African forces intervened to restore order after the Touaregs
joined Islamist militants in an offensive that almost split the
nation in half.  The voter participation rate in the election was 53.5
percent, Coulibaly said yesterday. At least half a million
residents have fled from the north to the south or to
neighboring countries, according to the  United Nations .  Cisse’s campaign is calling for an international commission
to verify the vote tally.  “According to our figures, there will be a run-off with
Soumaila Cisse,” Cisse’s party spokesman, Boureima Bore, said
today by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois Rihouay in Abidjan at 
 frihouay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  