-- Talisman Reports Lower Quarterly Profit on Brent Oil Prices
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-31T09:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/talisman-reports-lower-quarterly-profit-on-brent-oil-prices.html
Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , the Canadian
oil and natural gas producer with operations on six continents,
reported a drop in second-quarter profit as crude prices fell.  Net income fell to $97 million, or 6 cents a share, from
$196 million, or 14 cents, a year earlier, the Calgary-based
company said in a statement on Marketwired today.  Hal Kvisle, Talisman’s chief executive officer, said in
March he wants to raise as much as $3 billion from asset sales
or joint ventures over 12 to 18 months to reduce debt and
streamline the company. Talisman’s  production  has dropped 4.1
percent in the past three years as the company reduced North
American gas output amid falling prices and sold 49 percent of
its U.K. business to China Petrochemical Corp. in 2012.  “There really isn’t any production growth coming out of
North America,” so Talisman isn’t benefiting much from the rise
in gas prices since last year, Todd Kepler, an analyst at
Cormark Securities Inc. in Calgary, said in a July 23 phone
interview. “The bulk of operations are still North Sea and
Southeast Asia, so they have a lot of Brent pricing.”  Talisman said it started a sales process for its Norway,
Montney and North Duvernay assets, as well as its equity stake
in the Ocensa pipeline in Colombia. It revised its 2013
production outlook to the lower end of the 375,000-395,000
barrels of oil equivalent a day range.  Average prices for Brent oil, an international benchmark,
fell 5 percent from a year earlier to $103.35 a barrel in the
second quarter. North American gas prices gained 71 percent on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange during the quarter, after
reaching a decade low last year.  The quarterly results were released before the start of
regular trading on North American markets. Talisman rose 0.7
percent to C$11.94 in Toronto yesterday. The shares, which have
risen 6.1 percent this year, have eight buy, 15 hold and one
sell  recommendation  from analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  