-- Alleghany Takes Ares Stake, Commits Up to $1 Billion
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-07-31T18:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/alleghany-takes-ares-stake-commits-up-to-1-billion.html
Alleghany Corp. (Y) , the insurer that
bought Transatlantic Holdings Inc., acquired a stake in Ares
Management LLC and agreed to invest as much as $1 billion in the
asset manager to diversify its portfolio.  Alleghany paid $250 million for a 6.25 percent equity
stake, the companies said today in a statement. The New York-based insurer will also commit capital to a range of “existing
and new” strategies at Ares, according to the statement.  Insurers have been striking deals with asset managers in a
push for fee income and new investment opportunities. Allied
World Assurance Co. said in January that it took a stake in
Crescent Capital Group LP in a bet on junk-rated debt.  “The Ares senior management team has built an impressive
business and we believe the firm has excellent long-term
prospects,” Alleghany Chief Executive Officer Weston Hicks said
in the statement. “We believe our two organizations will be
well-positioned to serve the converging reinsurance and capital
markets.”  Ares got legal advice from Proskauer Rose LLP and its
bankers were JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp.
Morgan Stanley was the banker for the insurer, which got legal
advice from Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP.  Ares had about $66 billion of committed capital and 700
employees as of July 1, according to the statement. It issued a
$412.8 million collateralized loan obligation with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in June and a 310.5 million euro ($411.9 million) CLO
this month with Credit Suisse Group AG. CLOs pool high-yield,
high-risk loans and slice them into securities of varying risk
and return.  “We will be working with Ares to invest across their broad
spectrum of products including both investment and non-investment grade securities,” Alleghany said in an e-mail. “We
see this as an opportunity to access their expertise in these
products to prudently enhance our returns. We will look to put
this money to work over the next year.”  Today’s moves will boost Alleghany’s fixed-income returns
and help Ares expand in insurance, Hicks said.  Bill Mendel, an
Ares spokesman at Mendel Communications, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  San Francisco  at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  