-- Allstate Profit Rises 2.6% on Lower Costs From Natural Disasters
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-07-31T20:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/allstate-profit-rises-2-6-on-lower-costs-from-natural-disasters.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly
traded U.S. auto and home insurer, said second-quarter profit
rose 2.6 percent as costs from natural disasters fell.  Net income climbed to $434 million, or 92 cents a share,
from $423 million, or 86 cents, a year earlier, the Northbrook,
Illinois-based company said today in a statement. Operating
profit, which excludes some investment results, was $1.12 a
share, beating the 98-cent average  estimate  of 24 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Wilson  is scaling back
Allstate’s business that sells life insurance and retirement
products as he focuses on auto and home coverage. He struck a
deal this month to divest Lincoln Benefit Life Co. and has
announced a plan to stop issuing fixed annuities.  “It’ll be interesting to see what else they do on the life
side,”  Cliff Gallant , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said
in an interview before results were announced. “It’s been a
drag on their earnings.”  Allstate rose 0.1 percent to $50.98 at 4:03 p.m. in  New
York . The insurer has gained 27 percent this year, compared with
the 29 percent  advance  in the 22-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Insurance Index.  The insurer said this month that it will sell Lincoln
Benefit to Clive Cowdery’s Resolution Life Holdings Inc. for
$600 million. The deal will free up about $1 billion of capital
at Allstate’s life-insurance operation and eliminate a unit that
had averaged after-tax returns of about 1 percent of transaction
reserves, according to a July 17 statement.  Margins at the insurer’s property-casualty business have
improved in recent quarters. Wilson, 55, has purchased
reinsurance, raised rates for homeowner’s coverage and exited
some markets after severe weather boosted claims costs. Those
changes hurt sales of Allstate’s namesake brand of auto
insurance, because the products are often bundled together,
Wilson has said.  Allstate’s auto business has also been under pressure as
more customers shop for policies over the Internet rather than
purchasing them through agents. The insurer bought online car
coverage seller Esurance in 2011 to boost its sales through that
channel and to compete directly with the Geico unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and Progressive Corp.  Results in the quarter were hurt by Allstate’s plan to
retire some debt early and boost the amount of equity on its
balance sheet. Wilson said in May that the plan was meant to
take advantage of the low cost of capital and lengthen the
maturity of the company’s borrowing. Repaying $1.8 billion of
its bonds lowered earnings by about $320 million in the quarter,
the insurer said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  