-- Ally Loss Widens After $1.6 Billion ResCap Settlement
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-07-31T16:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/ally-loss-increases-as-auto-lender-seeks-to-repay-u-s-bailout.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto lender
majority-owned by U.S. taxpayers, said its second-quarter loss
widened on costs from a mortgage settlement and higher
provisions for soured car loans.  The net loss increased to $927 million from $898 million a
year earlier, including a $1.6 billion charge for the settlement
with creditors of its bankrupt mortgage unit, Residential
Capital LLC, the Detroit-based bank said today in a statement.
The core pretax profit, which excludes one-time items, fell 24
percent to $201 million from $263 million.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter’s goal of
repaying Ally’s $17.2 billion taxpayer bailout has been delayed
by lawsuits related to ResCap, which he once called a
“millstone around the company’s neck.” The company filed to go
public in 2011 before putting the idea on hold until ResCap’s
fate was clear.  “We can now put that tumultuous chapter behind us,”
Carpenter said in today’s statement. “Ally’s strategic
transformation is nearing completion.”  Pretax income from auto finance fell 13 percent to $382
million from $440 million a year earlier as the company set
aside more money for future loan losses, according to the
statement. U.S. consumer financing originations fell 6.7 percent
to $9.8 billion from $10.5 billion a year earlier.  Stress Test  Ally may raise less than $1 billion with a stock sale to
help it pass the Federal Reserve’s annual stress test, a person
with knowledge of the plans said earlier this month.  Formerly known as GMAC Inc., Ally was owned by General
Motors until 2006, when the automaker sold 51 percent to
Cerberus Capital Management LP, a private-equity firm. The U.S.
government took a  74 percent stake  in 2008 in return for a
package of financial aid that kept the lender from collapsing
under the weight of bad subprime mortgages.  “We’re very focused on what’s the exit strategy for the
U.S. Treasury,” Carpenter said May 1 during a conference call
with analysts. “If I had to put money on it right now, I would
say the IPO is the best alternative.”  ResCap, based in New York, filed for bankruptcy last year
partly to help it resolve claims brought by purchasers of bonds
backed by home loans. The investors said the bonds lost value
because many of the loans were bad. The settlement with ResCap
creditors doesn’t resolve claims against Ally brought by the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., as receiver for certain failed banks.  Repaying Treasury  “Except for those two lawsuits, all the claims will be
settled once the agreement goes into effect,” Mohak Rao, an
analyst at Fitch Ratings, said in a telephone interview. “I
think the next step for Ally management will be to repay the
U.S. Treasury.”  Ally sold most of its businesses in Europe and Latin
America in April to  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s financing unit for
about $2.6 billion. It sold its Mexican insurance business in
May. Ally said today it completed the sale of French operations
in June and plans to divest its Brazil unit and a joint venture
in  China  later this year.  The government holds about $5.9 billion of convertible
preferred shares paying 9 percent as part of the bailout. A
share sale may help raise money to repay that debt, the company
said July 16 in a regulatory filing.  The plan that Ally submitted to the Fed assumes the bank
will repurchase the securities, James Mackey, Ally’s chief
financial officer, said today on a conference call to discuss
the results. The lender won’t do so until it passes the stress
test, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  