-- Alwaleed Unreliable in Case Over Qaddafi Plane, Judge Says
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-07-31T14:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/alwaleed-loses-lawsuit-over-commission-on-plane-sold-to-qaddafi.html
Saudi PrinceAlwaleed bin Talal lost
a lawsuit over a $10 million commission on an airplane he sold
to former Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , in which a judge
accused him of being “completely unreliable.”  Alwaleed, the 21st-richest man in the world, must pay
Jordanian businesswoman Daad Sharab commission on the $120
million sale of the Airbus A340 in 2006, Judge Peter Smith ruled
in London today.  Much of the prince’s testimony at trial focused on the
relationship between Alwaleed and Qaddafi, the Libyan leader who
was overthrown and killed in October 2011 in a U.S.-backed
rebellion. The judge said during the trial that Alwaleed,
founder of Riyadh-based  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , was putting his
“honesty on the line.”  “He is a man who is clearly prepared to write false
letters” and the evidence “shows that I cannot accept his
assertion that he never tells lies in contracts and written
documents,” Smith said in his ruling. “His evidence is
completely unreliable.”  Alwaleed said he intends to appeal the judgment.  “Today’s ruling is wrong and is not an accurate analysis
of all of the evidence before the court,” Intisar Al-Yamani, a
spokeswoman for Kingdom Holding, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Relief’  Alwaleed is worth $25.8 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index , and has stakes in  News Corp . and Twitter
Inc. He also owns the Plaza hotel in New York and the George V
hotel in Paris.  “I feel a great sense of relief at today’s judgment,”
Sharab said in a statement handed out at court after the ruling.
“It will be extremely disappointing if the prince fails to
accept the decision.”  Smith denied Alwaleed permission to appeal at the hearing
today. He can still ask the Court of Appeal directly to hear the
case.  Alwaleed sued Forbes Media LLC for libel in April over
claims the company underestimated his wealth by $9.6 billion in
its annual rich list, according to media reports at the time.  Forbes lacked “fairness and objectivity of the valuation
process,” Kingdom said in a  statement  in March.  The prince, nephew of Saudi ruler  King Abdullah , owns an 80
percent stake in Rotana, which produces and broadcasts
television in Arabic and English across the Middle East and had
revenue of $1.2 billion in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The case is Daad Sharab v His Royal Highness  Prince
Alwaleed Bin Talal  Bin Abdul Aziz Al-Saud, case no. 07-3194,
U.K.  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  