-- American Homes 4 Rent Tests Housing REIT Market With IPO
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-07-31T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/american-homes-4-rent-tests-housing-reit-market-with-ipo.html
American Homes 4 Rent is readying
the biggest initial public offering by a company leasing single-family homes at a time when investors are cooling on the
fledgling industry.  The real estate investment trust, founded by self-storage
billionaire B. Wayne Hughes, plans to raise as much as $794
million in its sale of 44.1 million shares scheduled for later
today. With a  price range  set at $16 to $18 a share, the IPO is
poised to be far smaller than the $1.25 billion amount estimated
in an initial propectus by the Agoura Hills, California-based
company in June.  The company, with almost 18,000 properties, is the second-largest in the U.S. homes-for-rent market, after  Blackstone (BX)  
Group LP. While American Homes 4 Rent has the benefit of strong
leadership under Hughes and a diverse portfolio, it’s uncertain
whether single-family owners can make money over the long term
on par with other types of landlords, said Dave Bragg, an
analyst at Green Street Advisors Inc. The two other REITs that
have gone public -- Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. and  American
Residential Properties Inc. (ANRPZ)  -- are trading below their offering
price.  “We recommend buying at the low end of the range,” Bragg,
based in  Newport Beach ,  California , said of the American Homes 4
Rent IPO. “Over the long term, we identify a high-quality
problem resulting from home price appreciation, which would
bring initial yields down to very low historical levels.”  American Homes 4 Rent and competitors such as New York-based Blackstone, which has invested more than $5 billion in
about 30,000 houses, are betting they can build an institutional
real estate class from U.S. single-family rental homes, which
are mostly owned by mom and pop businesses.  Rental Demand  REITs,  hedge funds  and private-equity funds have raised
more than $17 billion and bought more than 100,000 properties
since 2011, taking advantage of  prices  that are still 24 percent
below their 2006 peak amid rising demand from renters who can’t
buy or don’t want to own. The U.S.  homeownership rate  is at 65
percent, an 18-year low, the Census Bureau reported yesterday.  Shares of other public single-family rental REITs have
fallen as the companies have failed to show a profit, in part
because they are acquiring houses faster than they can fill them
with tenants.  Silver Bay (SBY) , based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , began
trading in December at $18.50 a share and closed yesterday at
$16.10. American Residential Properties of Scottsdale,  Arizona ,
went public in May at $21 and has fallen to $16.99.  Giving Evidence  “The headline occupancy numbers for this space, roughly 50
percent, is not yet enough to give evidence that this business
model works,” Jade Rahmani, an analyst with Keefe Bruyette &
Woods Inc. who  rates  Silver Bay outperform, said in a telephone
interview from  New York . “Hopefully these management teams can
walk and chew gum at the same time -- can build out operations
at the same time they are acquiring.”  Colony American Homes Inc., a single-family rental company
founded by Thomas Barrack Jr. with about 14,000 houses in five
states, withdrew an IPO in June as prospects of rising  interest
rates  slammed shares of REITs. The Scottsdale, Arizona-based
company hasn’t ruled out going public, according to Owen Blicksilver, a spokesman for Barrack with Blicksilver Public
Relations Inc.  “We will continue to evaluate when a return to the public
markets might be advisable,” Blicksilver said in an e-mail.  Waypoint Homes Realty Trust Inc., a single-family home
renter based in Oakland, California, filed updated plans on July
19 to go public with a portfolio of 690 homes. Ellington Housing
Inc., an  Old Greenwich , Connecticut-based REIT, said July 2 it
is seeking to raise as much as $100 million in an IPO.  Shrinking Opportunity  It will get harder for rental investors to make a profit
because the flow of low-cost foreclosures is shrinking and
purchase prices are rising faster than rents, according to  John Burns , chief executive officer of  Irvine , California-based John
Burns Real Estate Consulting LLC.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities climbed 12.2 percent in the
year through May, the most in seven years, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller  index  released yesterday.  “The bargains are gone,” Burns said in a telephone
interview. “The great buying opportunity of the decade has
mostly passed.”  While higher prices may limit buying by the landlords, they
may also work in their favor by spurring more Americans to rent
as costs for mortgages also increase. An  index  of pending sales
of existing homes fell 0.4 percent in June from May, as higher
interest rates and limited inventory slowed transactions, the
National Association of Realtors said July 29. Rates on 30-year
 mortgages  averaged 4.31 percent last week, up from a near-record
low of 3.35 percent in May, and hit a two-year high of 4.51
percent earlier this month, according to  Freddie Mac .  Falling Vacancies  The number of U.S. homes occupied by renters increased
863,000 from a year earlier, compared with a 117,000 drop for
owner-occupied residences, the Census Bureau said yesterday.
Owners have lost more than 7 million homes to foreclosure or
sold them for a loss since 2007, according to RealtyTrac.  Rental vacancy rates fell to 8.2 percent, the lowest since
the first quarter of 2001, according to the Census report.  The “report is most bullish for single-family rental REITs
and apartment REITs, because vacancies are at multiyear lows,”
Jay McCanless, a Nashville, Tennessee-based homebuilder analyst
at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., wrote in a note yesterday.  It’s still uncertain whether single-family rental landlord
capitalization rates can rival those of apartment REITs, because
expected lower rates of tenant turnover may be offset by higher
costs of operating scattered-site rentals, according to Green
Street’s Bragg. The cap rate is a measure of investment yield
calculated by dividing the property’s net operating income by
purchase price, so it falls as costs and values rise.  Rent Increases  Rent increases for REIT-run apartments peaked at 5.6
percent in the third quarter of last year and funds from
operations, a measure of landlords’ ability to generate cash,
rose an average 17.8 percent for the fiscal year, according to
Bloomberg Industries analyst Jeffrey Langbaum. Apartment FFO
increases are expected to moderate this year to 5.4 percent as
rents rise more slowly, according to Langbaum.  Gross rental yields on single-family homes have compressed
by about 100 basis points, or 1 percentage point, to an average
9.7 percent over the past year, according to Green Street’s
analysis. The average American Homes 4 Rent property costs
$173,327, including renovations, according to its filing. Annual
rents average $16,284 a year for a 9.7 percent yield.  “If history is a guide, SFR cap rates could settle below
those of any other REIT sector, because home prices are
typically inflated by emotions and government subsidies,” Bragg
wrote in a July 24 note.  Public Storage  Hughes, 79, has a proven track record building companies as
founder of  Public Storage (PSA) , which should make American Homes 4
Rent attractive to investors, according to Bragg. The Glendale,
California-based self-storage operator is the third-largest U.S.
REIT by market value and has more than 2,200 facilities.  American Homes 4 Rent is an internally managed REIT, unlike
Silver Bay or Colony, Bragg said. The Hughes family will control
23 percent of the company’s total value, which means they may
undertake a more cautious acquisition strategy than leaders at
externally managed companies that get paid by total assets
rather than profits, he said.  Hughes’s company owns properties in 41 markets in 21
states, led by Indianapolis, Dallas-Fort Worth in Texas and
Chicago. Other investors have flocked to Phoenix and Atlanta,
where foreclosures have been more abundant and home prices have
been more volatile.  As of June 30, 48 percent of American Homes 4 Rent’s 17,949
homes were leased, according to a regulatory filing.  Quarterly Losses  American Residential Properties, with 86 percent of its
2,531 homes rented, had a first-quarter loss of $4.02 million
and $5.25 million in revenue. Silver Bay, which leased 53
percent of its 4,594 homes as of March 31, reported a loss of
$6.4 million and revenue of $7.68 million for the first quarter.  “We need to be very disciplined on the investment side,”
Silver Bay CEO  David Miller  said during a June 13 interview.
“We’d like to grow but it has to be smart growth.”  Peter Nelson, American Homes 4 Rent’s chief financial
officer, didn’t respond to a phone message seeking comment.  Compared with smaller investors, large single-family rental
operators can increase margins from economies of scale, such as
borrowing at lower costs and purchasing paint or home appliances
at bulk discounts, according to Green Street’s Bragg. American
Homes 4 Rent also should be able to demand higher rents than
small operators by developing a reputation for service and
higher-quality properties, he said.  “The brand is important because the single-family rental
industry has historically been very fragmented,” Bragg said.
“To associate a superior level of service with that brand,
which I’m confident that they will, provides a lot of value to a
renter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  