-- Hang Lung Underlying Profit Beats Estimates on Higher Rents
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-07-31T08:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/hang-lung-first-half-underlying-profit-falls-on-lower-home-sales.html
Hang Lung Properties Ltd., (101)  the Hong
Kong developer that makes more than half of its revenue from
mainland  China , posted first-half underlying profit that beat
estimates on higher-than-expected rental growth in the city.  Earnings excluding revaluation gains and deferred tax fell
23 percent to HK$1.93 billion ($249 million) in the six months
ended June 30 from HK$2.52 billion a year earlier, the builder
said in a statement to Hong Kong’s stock exchange today. That
compares with a HK$1.82 billion median estimate of five analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Hang Lung’s shopping malls in Hong Kong and mainland China
posted double-digit growth in rental income even as the Chinese
government clamps down on gifts among officials and as
competition with local operators intensifies. That partly offset
lower property sales in Hong Kong, where real estate
transactions are nearing a two-decade low because of government
curbs to avoid a bubble.  “As expected, the performance of their China portfolio has
been quite strong,” said  Cusson Leung , Hong Kong-based analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG. “The real surprise is the rental
growth in Hong Kong.”  Hang Lung’s  shares  rose 0.2 percent to HK$25.15 at the
close of trading in Hong Kong. The stock has declined 18 percent
this year, the second-worst performer in the nine-member Hang
Seng Property Index, which has fallen 6.6 percent in the period.  China Expansion  Chairman  Ronnie Chan  has been leading Hang Lung to expand
in mainland China since the late 1990s, betting that rising
consumption by the country’s expanding middle class will fuel
demand for high-end shopping malls.  The company’s strategy of selling apartments and commercial
properties in the city to help fund expansion in other Chinese
regions could be under threat as real estate transactions in
 Hong Kong  slow.  The city’s developers sold the fewest homes in the first
half since 2008 after the government imposed extra transaction
taxes and tightened mortgage lending in an attempt to curb  home
prices , according to figures compiled by realtor  Centaline
Property Agency Ltd.   Hang Lung’s rental profit from China, which includes
shopping malls in Shanghai, Jinan and Shenyang, rose 14 percent
to HK$1.33 billion in the first half, while in Hong Kong it
gained 12 percent to HK$1.31 billion, the company said.  The developer made HK$60 million from apartment sales in
Hong Kong during the period, compared with $798 million a year
earlier, it said. Hong Kong is the world’s most expensive city
to buy a home, according to property broker  Savills Plc. (SVS)   Hang Lung last bought a site in China in February, in
Wuhan, a city in Hubei province.  The company will pay an interim dividend of 17 Hong Kong
cents, unchanged from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  