-- Angola Will Attain Middle-Income List for Better Loans, UN Says
-- B y   M a n u e l   S o q u e   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-07-31T08:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/angola-will-attain-middle-income-list-for-better-loans-un-says.html
Angola ,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer
behind  Nigeria , may be promoted to a list of middle-income
countries that get better terms from international lenders such
as the  World Bank , a United Nations official said.  The UN has started a study on the country’s economic
vulnerability as part of a three-step project that will result
in a new ranking by 2020, Tesfachew Taffere, director of the UN
Africa Division for Least Developed Countries, said yesterday in
an interview in Luanda, the capital.  “Angola will make it to the middle-income category because
it has a growing economy, the government is moving toward the
right direction and it has the financial capacity to invest,”
he said. “It’s a bit ambitious because dependency on oil has
made Angola vulnerable.”  The OPEC member wants to diversify its $114 billion economy
away from crude which makes up almost all of its exports and 80
percent of  tax revenue . Middle-income status will help it
rebuild from a 27-year civil war that ended in 2002 by gaining
access to risk and credit guarantees that lower the cost of
public investments containing private funding. The World Bank
forecasts economic output will expand by 7.2 percent this year.  The next step is to submit the study by 2015 to the UN
Secretary General and General Assembly for approval, Angela Braganca, foreign ministry secretary of state for cooperation,
said at a July 29 press conference in Luanda. The transition to
the new list may be completed by 2018, she said.  Angola’s gross national product was more than double a
threshold of $1,190 per capita a year to qualify for the move
from least developed nation status, according to the  UN
Committee for Development Policy  in March 2012.  Health Index  The income level absolved the country from having to meet
at least one of two other criteria: an index of health and
education, and a measure of external risk to the economy. Angola
has opted to study the latter.  Only 57 percent of children 6 to 11 years old attend
school, according to a 2012 report by the  Catholic University  of
Angola. Of the 3.9 million cases last year of malaria, the
leading cause of death in Angola, more than half of them were
children, the report showed. The country has a  population  of
about 21 million, according to the World Bank.  Angola’s push for economic diversification began after it
secured a $1.3 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund 
following the 2008 oil-price crash. Last year, the government
began a five-year plan to improve training, build more
infrastructure and encourage banks to invest in thousands of
companies.  Other countries that have graduated to the UN’s middle-income list include Botswana,  Cape Verde ,  Sri Lanka  and the
Maldives.  -- Editors: Sarah McGregor, Ben Holland  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 Cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net 
Manuel Soque in Luanda at 
 msoque@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  