-- ANZ Opens 50-Ton Gold Vault in Singapore as Demand Expands
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-08-01T08:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/anz-opens-50-ton-gold-vault-in-singapore-on-increasing-demand.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  started a second bullion vault in Asia to cater for growing
physical demand that the Melbourne-based company sees driving
prices as much as 14 percent higher over two years.  The leased facility, which can hold 50 metric tons, opened
in Singapore last month, adding to storage in Hong Kong, Perth
and Zurich, said Eddie Listorti, co-head of fixed income,
currencies and commodities. The vault could keep $2.13 billion
of metal at yesterday’s close, Bloomberg calculations show.  The bullish stance from ANZ, which has forecast gold at
$1,400 an ounce in 2014 and $1,500 in 2015, contrasts with the
outlook from Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which predicts lower
prices as the U.S. Federal Reserve scales back stimulus. Gold
has plunged 21 percent this year, tumbling into a bear market as
stocks and the dollar rallied.  “There is nothing that indicates the strong physical
demand trend that we have seen will reverse,” Listorti said in
an interview in  Singapore . “We see demand coming from financial
institutions. Gold accounts for a very small percentage of some
central banks’ reserves. There’s room to grow there.”  Gold for immediate delivery fell 0.6 percent to $1,317.12
an ounce at 4:14 p.m. in Singapore after rising 7.4 percent in
July, the best monthly advance since January 2012. Goldman Sachs
predicts futures at $1,050 an ounce on the Comex in New York at
the end of next year.  Central Banks  Demand for physical metal is robust, irrespective of prices,
said Listorti, whose team distributes about 15 percent of the
world’s primary gold production. Clients include central banks,
sovereign wealth funds and asset managers, he said. The company
has a supply agreement with the Perth Mint and is one of the top
three providers of gold into  China , the bank said.  ANZ joins JPMorgan Chase & Co., UBS AG and Deutsche Bank AG
in offering gold-storage services in Singapore as the Southeast
Asian nation plans to become a regional trading hub to take
advantage of growing wealth in the Asia-Pacific region. The new
facility is sited at the Singapore FreePort, located in the east
of the country near Changi Airport.  The bank may add more bullion storage in Singapore or other
Asian locations, said Listorti yesterday.  India  and China are the world’s two largest gold consumers.
The number of high-net-worth individuals in the Asia-Pacific
region expanded 9.4 percent last year, according to  Cap Gemini
SA (CAP)  and Royal Bank of  Canada .  China, India  ANZ said in a July 11 report that it’s constructive on gold,
expecting prices to rebound into next year and 2015, according
to Chief Economist Warren Hogan and  Mark Pervan , commodity
research head. Tight supply, prices below production costs and
central-bank buying will support the metal, they said.  The Chinese central bank’s gold holding accounted for 2
percent of total reserves at the end of March, while the
proportion for India was 10 percent, according to data from the
producer-funded World Gold Council. That compares with a 76
percent share for the U.S. and 72 percent for  Germany , it said.  World demand dropped 13 percent on year in the first
quarter to 963 tons as outflows from exchange-traded products
offset growth in jewelry, bars and coins, council data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  