-- Hapoalim’s Leiderman Tapped as Next Bank of Israel Governor
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-07-31T16:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-31/hapoalim-s-leiderman-tapped-to-be-next-bank-of-israel-governor.html
Leo Leiderman, chief economist at
 Israel ’s largest bank, has been nominated as the next  Bank of
Israel  governor, stepping into the breach left by first-choice
Jacob Frenkel when he withdrew his candidacy this week.  The appointment was announced today by Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  and Finance Minister Yair Lapid in a text
message, and acting Governor Karnit Flug immediately resigned
after being passed over for a second time. Leiderman, a former
head of the central bank’s research department, succeeds  Stanley Fischer , who stepped down June 30.  The shekel maintained gains after the announcement, up 0.1
percent to 3.5729 per dollar at 6:22 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  “I’m excited to return to the Bank of Israel and I will
work to help the Israeli economy confront the challenges that we
face,” Leiderman, 62, said in a text message.  He has been asked to take over the bank at a time of
slowing economic growth and low inflation. Observers will be
watching to see whether Leiderman, described as a “key player”
in Frenkel’s hawkish policies in the high-inflation 1990s, will
now focus on growth and job creation.  Leiderman’s nomination must be approved by a panel that
vets senior civil appointments and the cabinet.  Frenkel Hit Bump  It was during his confirmation process that Frenkel’s
nomination snagged. While the vetting committee was reviewing
his candidacy, the Haaretz newspaper reported that Frenkel, a
former governor, had been briefly detained in  Hong Kong  seven
years ago after he left an airport shop with an item that had
not been paid for.  Frenkel, who called the incident a misunderstanding, said
July 29 that he no longer wanted the job after being subjected
to an “avalanche of abuse.” Netanyahu and Lapid promised to
swiftly find a replacement.  Avia Spivak, a former deputy governor, praised the new
candidate, who has most recently led the economics department at
 Bank Hapoalim (POLI)  Ltd. He earlier worked for Deutsche Bank AG.  “He has a very good grasp of monetary theory,” said
Spivak, now an economics professor at Ben-Gurion University of
the Negev. “We’ve seen from the experience of other central
banks that it is important to know well how monetary policy
works and how markets react.”  ‘Good Background’  Leiderman’s experience at the Bank of Israel, and his work
at Bank Hapoalim, “provide very good background” for the job,
Spivak said.  If confirmed, Leiderman will take the tiller at the bank at
a time when it is contending with slowing growth, a
strengthening shekel, sluggish global demand and surging housing
prices.  The Bank of Israel left the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 1.25 percent at the end of July, after lowering it
gradually from 3.25 percent since 2011 in an effort to spur
growth in the export-driven economy. It also announced in May
that it would buy more than $2 billion by the end of the year,
citing the shekel’s appreciation and the downward revision in
global growth forecasts.  Leiderman emigrated to Israel from Cordoba,  Argentina , at
17 and received his bachelor’s degree in economics at The Hebrew
University in  Jerusalem , before earning his master’s and
doctorate at the  University of Chicago . He published the book,
“Inflation and Disinflation: The Israeli Experiment,” in 1993.  ‘Key Player’  After teaching economics at  Tel Aviv  University, Leiderman
joined the Bank of Israel as research director in 1996 when
Frenkel, known as an inflation hawk, was in charge. He left the
post four years later after Frenkel stepped down.  “Leo Leiderman was a key player during Frenkel’s tenure,”
Haim Barkai Sapir and Nissan Liviatan wrote in a book about
Israeli monetary policy. “He was much involved in Frenkel’s
policy decisions.”  The Bank of Israel job opened in January after Fischer, 69,
announced he would leave at the end of June, midway through his
second, five-year term. He has been credited with helping Israel
to weather the global economic crisis better than most developed
countries. Between 2005, when Fischer took office, and last
year, the economy grew an annual average of 4.3 percent, he told
parliament’s finance committee on June 3.  His dual focus on employment and growth alongside  price
stability  resembled the Fed’s model and marked a shift at the
Bank of Israel, where previous governors placed a European-style
emphasis on inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  